HOIVE FOR INOtTRABLES v. NOBLE.
Statement of -the Case.

duct would be decisive if the claim was supported by the contract, it is nevertheless clear that it affords a just means of
adding forceful significance to the unambiguous letter of the
contract and the self-evident intention of the parties in entering into it.

Judgment affirmed..

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
COLVILLE v. AMERICAN SECURITY AND
COMPANY.

TRUST

APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUM.BIA.
Nos. 57, 61.

Argued November 9,10, 1893. -Decded

January 8, 1899.

Mrs. Ruth died on the 16th of June, 1892, having on the first day of the
same month and year executed both a will and a'codicil. After revoking all previous wills and codicils and .directing the payment of debts
and funeral expenses, the will bequeathed all the real, personal or mixed
property to the American Security and Trust Company for the benefit
of a granddaughter, Sophia. Yuengling Huston, during her natural 11
le.
On the death of the granddaughter the will provided that the trust should
end, and that it should be the duty of the trustee to pay over to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania the sum of five thousand dollars
for purposes stated, and 'to deliver all the ,, residue and remainder of the
estate of whatever kind" to the Home for Incurables, to which corporation such residue was bestowed for a stated object. The codicil was as
follows: I, Mary Eleanor Ruth, being of sound and disposing mind and
memory and understanding, do make and publish this codicil to my last
will and testament- I hereby revoke and annul the bequest therein made
by me to the Home for Incurables at Fordham, New York city, in the
State of New York, and I hereby give and bequeath the five thousand
dollars (heretofore in my will bequeathed to said Home for Incurables)
to my friend Emeline Colville, the widow of Samuel Colville, now living
in New York city, said bequest being on account of her kindness, to my
son and myself during his and my illness and my distress. Held, That
the effect of the codicil was to revoke the bequest of five thousand dollars, made by the will in favor of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and to substitute therefor the legatee named in the codicil.

MARY E. Ruth died on the 16th of June, 1892, hating on
the first day of the same month and year executed both a will

OCTOBER TERm, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

and, a eodiei[L After revoking all previous wills and codicils
sand.direoting the payment of:debts andfuneral expenses, the
will bequeathed all the real; personal or mixed property to the
American Security. and .Trust Oompkny for the benefit of a
granddaughter, Sophia Yuengling Huston, during her natural
life.'bn
'Othedeath of the granddaughter the will provided
that the trust should end, and that it should be the duty of
the trustee to pay over.,to, the 1 ospital, of the- jniyersity of
'th6usand' dollars for'purposes
Pennsylvinia the sum':o6fif
qdelivep allL th, " rejdqe .a4d renaindsr of the
otat d .and tj
estate of whatever kind-" to, the Ihome for Incurables, to
which corporation such residue was bestowed for a stated
objecti- .iThe- codicil unquestionably gave .to :Etline Colville
a bequest of five thousand dollars. The will and codicil are
printed in full in the margi~. 1
,1,;Mny ':~Etsattr 'Ruli,. si~hig tti't'

.efty~ bf'WahIn'gtbn and the

o sottd aid" b" Mgiifiibind Memory,
~a
~
Plimr1t; 43if'o
r
Th"d W 66% my tlst'Witl nd c stamoent,
d'jbLi5th aLd !ddiss
dm liiake
bf,*,.4
*stM 6 fil
e n t hate-fnnear:Rumh:
cL~dieifs byiea tl~tm

i~.

1
rx
tta Inttod
S"F
atrM
d4,T6IctChi
he~e1ayrtek',n A nd nakfl
n~e
'n ,-liitirs~evr sanjt
a

tnltadE

WUei;sItsin
kb riid '

Blst . Aof

ft'fier'mefsan
td'

t,6e Coiorbreilai,

t ,ofmmy

oi' aqinre

or

d

elfe:i"
n 'oTrs
aa1exs
[tatny
aotid
'j' !ii
h~[R
'ssi'dhar
Setsltyad
tit
Coi:MTb~t
-1 al
Wa
t , Cita!D
istr t' of sOoh x fis
p
o
' ijd'f-|ta~
te
,rpe b-irst~lo
nl*
'ge
n~
s'e #& b beith aly~gzsl
tse
isig
os1, thfii'v ohgu
eon
o
my ~i'd~~tapeiod
Atdbst
fs
ttid~l a'i e tlie p eC~
b~o~etM-,
ofakss 6f seurt tes; OtTat is
fkmon% time to vmeue naiiy'ot 6!ol
atrom
asagrm i #tm
ihle
freihe'meiibg
the8 d
ths ashalec.6me
be pii o nitd-StatrstWnA4 o1 in
ndaustr b6fds ole
or In rst
dtlsaoijTgi
n 6ihs seited b- tfrat
imtgme boiidst6f'd.vtdewd pfyn9mragflro
tIU~kbbi; reat etat
A n the VAdt,1tf Oomb& ~'lasWtto exceed

thd a'nbal Theifom"
li

afd tfMjttitCah r

negiitto the ghmrIan

sufftbfeftAtto iro~i 'for: Ii~r iWtndteiitidend6ation and sup]port'untll she
becb~fiekr the~f'ltf ag. of 'Oeio
aldf iio
r
period the'bentire
income 6'ahindlU ly Wedlrfr
s iMAtn Vt efits ind jr Invctme~it abali
be paid gver by said trustee tp my said granddaughtp'i for ber so e use 4nd
tihitethe Xiicolne thils' ovldbd iv.'mysaidgadagrfrad

diirli

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
Statement of the Case.

In October, 1895, the American Security and Trust. Company, alleging the .death of the granddaughter and the termination of the trust, filed a bill to obtain. a construction of
the will and codicil, 'to .the end that it might be enabled to
distribute the estate, and thus be legally discharged from all
the term of her natural life shall sooner cease. and determine at any time
when it is ascertained by my said trustee that 'any part of my said income
shall have been given by said granddaughter, or In anywise expended by or
through her for the use or benefit of Robert J. Huston, from whom her
mother, my. daughter, obtained a divorce wJh custody of, said Sophia
Yuengling Huston given absolutely to her said mbther. In case the Income
shall so cease ad determlne' before the death of my said granddaughter
then said income, and all accumulations thereof and the entire principal
of said trust estate shall be disposed of as proid~d in the neit 'succeeding
Item of this my last will and testament.,
I further authorize my aforesaid trustee to sell any portion of the estate
herein conveyed to It In 'lust as aforesaid and to invest and relivest the
proceed as he~ilhbefori provided, giving to puichaseri good'and 'sufflet
deeds'or otler vIdeaces of tltl, Wlthdut-obligation upon the. pkrttbSald
purphas.rsto see toqthe :ppllcati1onlthe pprcI~ase money.
Third. K1) the event of the death of my said grinddaughter Sophia
Yue.nglng' i~ust6 or of'the odcurrrnce of the prior coutIngeucy for the
detetilnitfoi of "ald' ti-st herein before rovfded In 'teti tw, ieti4 the
trust her;Ahbefore created~anXl vested -Ir the'.AmeAiccn 9 eedrity' :td TruAt
Cgmpany" shall. eease 4nd be detormined, aad -.omuch of. imysatd estate
hollathereupon, be .ieveyed and.delivered over, by said American Secqrity1
and Trust 'Company to the Hospital of the University of Pennsyvania as
sdid-.1ospital t endow,tid forever 'maintain a flrst-class, perpetual bed In
said hospItal n 1he dlty.of.Philadelphla, said bed to be in th name and
memory of my beloved son Malancthon Love Ruth.
All the residue and Temalnder!of my said estate of whatever kind 'after
the payment of said five thousand dollars for the, establishment of sid
perpetual bed in, said hospital, I give, devise and bequeath to the "Home
for Incurables'. at Fordham, New York city, In the -State of New York,
Its, successors and assigns, forever. to be used by said. IHome for Incuga1)ies" to endow and foreverniaintal4 one -or more .bds in said home In the
name and memory.f my beloved son Malannthon, Love Ruth.Fourth. I nominate ano. appoint Maryl l.obinspn Wright, wife of, J,
Hood Wright, ,f New York, city,, and . Mary Robinson Markle, wife of John
Markle, of. Hazleton, pennsylvania, and the survivors of them, to be.the
guardians or guardian of the property and the person of :my said grand
daughter Sophia Yuenglng, Huston, they and each of them being my valued
friends and having coneented to act in that behalf.
Fifth. I hereby nominate and appoint the "Amerfcan' Security and
VOL. cLxxii-25

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

obligations in the premises. The bill charged that, considering the Will and codicil together, there was uncertainty
whether the five thousand. dollars given by the codicil to
Mrs. Colville revoked the bequest in favor of the University
of Pennsylvania or substituted Mrs. Colville, in whole or only
in part, in the place and stead of the Home for Incurables
as to the gift in the will to that institution.
The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, the Home
for Incurables, Emeline Colville and the heirs at law of the
decedent were made parties to the bill. The Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania by its answer denied that there
was any ambiguity in the will iri regard to the bequest made
to it, and averred that such bequest was in nowise impaired
by the codicil. The Home for Incurables, although conceding by its answer that there was *an ambiguity arising
,from the will and codicil considered in juxtaposition, yet
alleg'ed that the codicil did not in any respect diminish the
bequest and devise of the residuum made to it by the will,
or, if it did, operated to do so only to the amount of five
thousand dollars. Emeline Colville, by her answer, whilst ad:
mitting that there was ambiguity in the will and codicil considered together, averred that such ambiguity was patent,
and was resolvable by settled rules of construction. She
averred that, applying such rules, it was clear that the codicil operated torevoke the-bequest and devise of the residuum
of the estate made in favor of the Home for Incurables, and
Trust Company"' of Washington city, District 'of Columbia, to be the
sole executor of my estate.
I, Mary Eleanor Ruth, being of sound and disposing mind and memory
and understanding, do make and publish this codicil to my last will-and
testament- I hereby' revoke and annul the bequest therein made by me
to the Home for Incurables at Fordham, New York city, in the State of
New York, and I hereby give and bequeath the five thousand dollars (heretofore in my will bequeathed to said Home for Incurables) to my friend
Emeline Colville, the widow of Samuel Colville,'now living in New York
city, said bequest being on account of her kindness tomy son and myself
during his and my illness and my distress.
In witness whereof I have hereto affixed my name this first day of June,
in the year of our Lord -eighteen hundred and ninety-two, and I in all other
things ratify and affirm my said will

HO3E FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
Counsel for Parties.

had substituted Mrs. Colville as the residuary devisee after
the payment of the amount of the bequest in favor of the
Pennsylvania institution. 'The heirs at law by their answer,
whilst admitting that the codicil gave Emeline Colville five
thousand dollars, also asserted that the gift of the residue
made by the will, in favor of the Home for Incurables, was
revoked by the codicil, and therefore that after payment of
the legacy of five- thousand dollars given to the Hospital of
the University of Pennsylvania, and a like amount due to
Mrs. Colville under the codicil,* the remainder of the estate
passed to them, since as to such remainder the decedent was
intestate.
The trial court found that the codicil gave Emeline Colville
five thousand dollars, and substituted her to the bequest made
in favor of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania;
hence, it decreed Mrs. Colville entitled to the five thousand
dollars and that the Pennsylvania corporation took nothing.
It further decreed that the Other provision of the will, that is,
the disposition of the residuary estate in favor of the Home
for Incurables, was unaffected by the codicil.
The Court of Appeals, to which the controversy was taken,
whilst agreeing that the codicil gave Mrs. Colville five thousand dollars, and that she was entitled to this sum, held (the
Chief Justice dissenting) that .the effect of the codicil was
to revoke the bequest and devise of the residuum in favor of
the Home for Incurables, and therefore that Mrs. Ruth, as
to the entire remainder of her estate, after paying the legacies
to the University of Pennsylvania and Mrs. Colville, had died
intestate, consequently that the residue of the estate should
be distributed among the heirs at law. iiO App. D. C. 56.
Mr. George . Yeamam and .3fr.J. S. *Flanneryfor the
Home for Incurables. Xr.. George C. iobbe was on their brief.
2fr. Henry P. Blair'for the Hospital of ihe University of
Pennsylvania.
.r. Henry Thompson for Mrs. Colville.
land filed a brief for same.

Xr. Edwin Suther-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinlon of the Court.

Kr. ffsniy Randall Webb and Mr.John Sidney Webb for
Mrs. Noble and others.
Mr. Willam A.. .Kenlney
submitted on behalf of the
Amerikaa Security and Trust Company.
MaL. .JusTWSWmrr, after making the foregoing statement,
deliveredithe opinion of the court.
It, wilL subserve, clearneks of uiderstanding to accrately
define: at the outset' the,real contentions Which underlie the
issues presented.
It,,is notigaihsaid by either of the beneficiaries u nder the
will, that the plain intention &f the testatrix expressed inthe
codicil' was, .to give Mrs; OblvlIe the: sum of five thousand
dollars, i IndeedI assertion that there was, doubt- on this subt
-not
reason t 1y.be-'-n
jpot: eould
1ide iA view of the explicit
T,
terms of.the, codicilt The xnceitainty which it is alleged exists 1i the Codicil -is solly-asit I*hich one of the bef fliL
aries, named in the.Will is to be affobted -by the pay e t of
-byTho codicil. - .Eao h of. tho§, benefited' by the
teumgivr
will in substknice7Msertb that the codicil is eertaiW iso far as
it;man fests the~intentionl 61thetestatrix to give, ad thaltiit
iscqtyoertMnas .to'ithefand;from wbhich 'thd payment is
to ,be,utade, provided such fund 'is found to be the 'provision
favor of the other.* The arguments hence
made'bY the Wvill, iin
atonvce resolve 'themselveg. linto the single assertioii that,; a].
thibgh the: gift,,maddibythe codicil; iscertain, its enforeement
may Or may not be 'possible,'depending on the partictular fodh.
tain frodi which it may beo donoluded the testatrix infended
the stream of her benefaction should flow., And although
diffefihg ia fotni of statement, the 'ontentions upon Which
the e'galheirs and kMr. 'bolville base th6fr caim of right to
the.residuary estate, ubs
.
ti y pondu * to a like, althouigh
more aggrvated, result. The first. (the legal heirs) , poicede
the certainty of the intention of the testatrix as expressed in
the vwdicil to ,give a specifi suMI. to Mrs.,. Colville, but claim
that in the execution of this defined;, purpose the -testatrix

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

brought about uncertainty as to the entire residuum of her
estate, since intestacy, it is claimed, was created in that regard. The second (Mrs. Colville), whilst equally granting the
clear puipose of the testatrix, by the codicil, to give her only
the sum of five thousand dollars, yet argues, that this purpose
has been so expressed as not only to- give the sum intended
but the entire remainder of the estate besides.
Before approaching the text of the will and codicil we will
notice an erroneous statement' of the rule of law by which it
is claimed the assertion that the codicil is unceitain-is to be
tested, and will also state the general scope of the power
which courts of equity wil exert to correct mistakes in'wills
and: the cardinal rule of construction which they adopt in so
..
doing.. found that the cod-i
it-be
unless:
It is strenuously argued that
icil takes away from one of the ,beneficiaries named in the wilt
the whole-or a portion of what,.the will gives, by language as
clear and as freo.fromu ambiguity as ithat oontaified.in. the-will,
the 'codicil.-is void fore uncertainty,, and thb provisions of .the
will remain unaffected. This broad prposit.Wn is uhsound, and
the authority by which it is:apparently, supported has been
explained. or.qaalified., Thus in Randfeld v. Ran'rdfld, 8 H.
L. 225, Lord Cambell (p. 234),stated th rule as1ollows : .i
"The ,ratip deidendi, upon which; itis said, that;the Vice
Chancellor held that no operation is to bb given to the limiitation over on the death of the son without ..issue,; 'If you have
a clear gift it shall not be cut d.wn, by anything subsequent,.
unless it. is equally. clear,' appears., to me to be insufficient. If
there:be a olear gift, it is notto beout down by anything subsequent Which, does. not with -reasonable certainty indicate the
intention of the testator to cut it down,,but th' maximcannot
mean that you are 'toi institut.e a' comparison:' bet veen the two
"
clauses asto lucidity."
And in the same case, Lord Wensleydale, at p. 237, said.:
"The gift being in., terms -absoluth: cannot:. be cut downq
unless there. is: a suffioientlyv clear indication obf, ayt interest
[intent.?] t- defeat it, by, the subsequent_ clause!. I quite. agree.
with the Lord Chancellor in the construotiotnof' those words

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

'to which he referred, that you need not have a clause equally
clear, but it must be reasonably clear, and the clause to which
that effect is attributed by the respondents is capable of a
construction confining its effect to the real estates only."
And this rule of reasonableness is applicable, with peculiar
potency, to a case like the one now before us, where the effect
of defeating the codicil for uncertainty will confessedly frustrate the clear intention of the testatrix. In this *connection
the language of Lord Brougham, concurred in by the House
of Lords in Winter v. Porratt,6 Mann. & Gr. 314, 359, is pertinent:
"We ought not, without absolute necessity, to let ourselves
embrace the alternative of holding a devise void for uncertainty. Where it is possible to give a meaning, we should give
it, that the will of the testator may be operative; and where
two or more meanings are presented for consideration, we
must be well assured that there is no sort of argument in
favor of one view rather than another, before we reject the
whole. It is true the heir at law shall only be disinherited by
clear intention ;. but if there be ever so little reason in favor of
one construction of a devise rather than any other, we are, at
least, sure that this is nearer the intention of the testator, than
that the whole should be void and the heir let in.
"The cases where courts have refused to give a devise any
effect, on the ground of uncertainty, are those where it was
quite impossible to say what was intended, or where no inten.
tion at all had been expressed, rather than cases where several
meanings were suggested, and seemed equally entitled to the
preference.

. -.

.

On this head, it may further be observed,

that the difficulty of arriving at a conclusion, even the grave
doubt which may hang around it, certainly the diversity and
the conflict of opinions respecting it, and the circumstances of
different persons having attached different meanings to the
same words, form no ground whatever of holding a devise
void for uncertainty. The difficulty must be so great that it
amounts to an impossibility; the doubt so great that there is
not even an inclination of the scales one way, before we are
entitled to adopt the conclusion. Nor have we any right to

HOME, FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

regard the discrepancy of opinions -as any evidence of the uncertainty, while there remains any reasonable ground of preferring one solution to all the rest. The books are full of
cases, where every shift, if I may so speak, has been resorted
to, rather' than hold the gift void for uncertainty."
No. less clearly marked out is the conceded authority of a
court of equity to correct mistakes in wills and to enforce the
real intention of the testator by giving that construction which
accomplishes such purpose. Story, 1 Eq. Jur. 12th ed. p. 174,
says:
"SEc. 179. In regard to mistakes in wills, there is no doubt
that courts of equity have jurisdiction to correct t.em, when
they are apparent upon the face of the will, or may be made
out by a due construction of its terms;, for in cases of wills
the intention will prevail over the words. But, then, the mistake must be apparent on the-face of the will, otherwise there
can be no relief ; for, at least sinc the Statute of Frauds,
which requires wills to be in writing, (whatever -may have
been the case before the statute,) Varol evidence, or evidence
deh or8 the will, is not admissible to vary or control the terms
of the will, although it is admissible to remove a latent
ambiguity.
"SEO. 180. But the mistake, in order to lead to relief, must
be a clear mistake, or a clear omission, demonstrable from the
structure and scope of the will. Thus, if, in a will there is a
mistake in the computation of a legacy, it will be rectified in
equity. So, if there is a mistake in a name,_or description, or
number of the legatees, intended to take, or in the property
intended to be bequeathed, equity will correct it."
In 11ardenbergh v. Bay, 151 U. S. 112, at p. 126, the
court, through Mr. Justice Jackson, thus stated the, doctrine:
The cardival rule for the construction of wills, to which
all other rules must bend, as stated, by Chief Justice Marshall
in Smiith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68, 75, is, that 'the intention of the
testator expressed in his will shall prevail, provided it. be consistent with the rules of law. This principle is generally
asserted in the construction of 'every testamentary disposition.
It is emphatically the wil of the person who makes it, and is

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

defined to be "the legal declaration of a man's intentions,
which he wills to be performed after his death." These intentipns are to be collected from his words, and ought to be carried into effect if they be consistent with law.'" See also
Colton v. Colton, 127 U. S. 300.
We come then to the text of the will and codicil in order to
consider, first, whether the bequest and devise of the remainder,
which the will makes, is in whole or in part affected by the
codicil; and, second, if not, whether the codicil substitutes
Mrs. Colville to the bequest in favor of the Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania, thereby revoking the gift of five
thousand dollars made to the said hospital and conferring that
sum upon Mrs.: Colville.
The language of that portion of the will with which we are
now concerned is as follows:
"Third. In the .event of the death of my said granddaughter Sophia Yuengling Huston or of the occurrence of
the prior contingency for the determination of said trust
hereinbefore provided in item two, then the trust hereinbefore created and vested in the 'American Security and Trust
Company' shall cease and be determined, and so much of my
said estate shall thereupon be conveyed and delivered over by
said American Security and Trust Company to the Hospital
of the University of Pennsylvania as amounts to five thousand
dollars, said five thousand dollars to be used by said hospital
to endow and forever maintain a first-class perpetual bed in
said hospital in the city of Philadelphia, said bed to be in the
name and memory of my beloved son Malancthon Love Ruth.,
"All the residue and remainder of -mysaid estate of whatever kind after the payment of said five thousand. dollars for
the estal~lishment of said perpetual bed in said hospital, I give,
devise and bequeath to the 'Home for Incurables' at Fordham, New York city, in the State of New York, its successors
.and assigns forever, to be used by said: ' Home for Incurablez'
to endow and forever maintain one or more beds in said home
in the name and memory of my beloved son Malancthon Love
Ruth."
.The codicil says:

HOMEE FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

"I, Mary Eleanor Ruth, being of sound and disposing mind
aid memory and undeistanding, do make and publish this
codicil to my last will and testament - I hereby revoke and
annul the bequest therein made by me to the Home for Incurables at Fordham, New York city, in the State of New York,
and I hereby give- and bequeath the five thousand d6llars
(heretofore in my will -bequeathed to said Home for Incurables) to my friend Emeline Colville, the. widow of Samuel
Colville, now living in New York city, said bequest being on
account of 'her kindness to my son and myself during his and
my illness and my distress.
"In witness whereof I have hereto affixed. my name this
first day of June, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred
and ninety-two, and I in all other things ratify and affirm my
said will."
It is apparent that the portions of the will which are in.
question contain but two provisions, first, a bequest of five
thousand dollars to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and, second, a bequest and devise of the entire remainder of the estate to the Home for Incurables. This is so
self-evident as to require nothing but statement. The codicil,
it is obvious, makes one bequest only, that is, five thousand
dollars to Mrs. Colville. It points out the source whence this
sum is to be taken, by designating the particular fund created
by the will from which the same is to be obtained. This
designation is made in a twofold way: First, by naming the
.person in whose favor the will gives a right, thereby pointing
out that it is the fund given to such person which is to be
drawn on in order to execute the gift in favor of Mrs. Colville.
Second, it also designates the source whence the five thousand
dollars is to be taken, by describing the character of the bequest in the will which is to be used to pay the legacy created
by the codicil. As a result the codicil revokes the bequest in
the will upon which it operates and substitutes the beneficiary
named in the codicil for the beneficiary under the will. The
controversy arises from the fact that there is conflict between
the two designations made by the codicil, the name on the
one hand and the character of the thing given on the other.

OCTOBE R TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

This conflict plainly appears from a consideration of the text
of the codicil: "1 hereby revoke and annul the bequest
therein" (that is, in the will) "made by me. to the Home for
Incurables at Fordham, New York city, in the State of New
_York, and I hereby give and bequeath the five thousand dollars (heretofor6 in my will bequeathed to said Home for Incurables)
to my friend Emeline Colville." That these words show
a change
of purpose as to a gift of five thousand dollars, found
in the will and a substitution of the new beneficiary for the
one mentioned in the will, igbeyond reasonable doubt demonstrated by the text. The revocation made by the codicil is
but consequent on the gift to the new legatee of "the" sm
"heretofore in my will bequeathed," and thus makes it patent
that the revocation and the gift are truly one and the same
act of volition, and that they arise from and depend one on
the' other. Which then of the two designations in the codicil
contained is the controlling one, or, otherwise stated, which
:was mistakenly used by the testatrix ?
The language revoking and annulling in the codicil is "the
bequest therein (that is in the will) made by me." The gift
by the codicil is a bequest of "the five thousand dollars heretofore in my will bequeathed.'" Now the -only clause in the
will to which this description can possibly apply is the single
and only specific bequest found in the will, that is, the five
thousand dollars given by the will to-the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. It follows that the only possible
subject to which the codicil can apply is the only one found
in the will to which the -description can possibly relate, and
which it defines with certainty and- clearness. To adopt the
designation which the codicil gives when it states the name
of the beneficiary of the provision in the will would absolutely
destroy the description of the character of the thing'stated
the codicil, since there is nothing given by the will to the
in'
Home for Incurables which comes under or can possibly be
embraced within 'the specific description contained in the.
codicil of the object of gift to-be affected. Now, as it is
manifest from the codicil that the purpose of the testatrix
w.s but, in making the codicil, to change the benefit by her

HOME FOR INCURABIES v. NTOBLE.

395

Opinion of the Court.

conferred under the will only to the extent of the bequest
found in the will of five thousand dollars, and that her sole
intent was to confer this gift on a new person, it would follow
if the mention by the codicil of the name of the supposed
recipient of the gift were allowed to control,, that the thing
revoked would be dominated by the mere name, the representative would be greater than the thing it stood for, and
the plain intent and purpose of the testatrix, apparent on the
Moreover, a yet
face of the codicil, would be frustrated.
more serious departure from the words and intention of the
testatrix would result. It is plain from the will that the fixed
design of the testatrix was to provide for the disposition of
her entire estate; that is, thatshe assiduously sought to avoid
intestacy as to any portion thereof. But if the name mentioned in the codicil be allowed to destroy the accurate desotiption of the nature of the thing upon which the codicil
operates, intestacy as to the remainder of the estate would
arise, since such result must flow from the assumption that
the revocation made by the codicil relates to the devise of the
remainder of the estate made by thewill. To hold that the
name in the codicil controlled the description would be tantamount to saying that although the testatrix intended, and
bad stated such intention in clear language, to dispose of all
her estate, yet by writing the codicil she had become intestate
to the full limit of all the remainder. Besides, to thus construe the will would be to declare that the greater portion of
the codicil was wholly unnecessary and meaningless; for, if
the intention had been that the sum given should be paid by.
diminishing the remainder, then all reference to theparticular
gift'which was to be operated upon was superfluous.
The intention of the testatrix as shown by the entire codicil
is greatly fortified by considering that the context of the .will
and codicil establish, beyond cavil, that they were written by
one familiar with the technical legal terms, and heuce that
the provisions found in both instruments were carefully made
to conform to legal phraseology. N~ow,the thing revoked is
called in the codicil "the bequest" made in the will, which
contradistinguishes it from the bequest and devise of "all

OCTOBER TER)., 1898.
Opinion of fhe Court.

the residue and remainder" of the estate of the testatrix "of
whatever kind," which the will contains.
The reasoning by which it is contended that the designation
by name found in the codicil must be held as dominant and
must be construed as obliterating the clear and legally precise
indication of the thing intended to be revoked, which the
codicil itself affords, does not commend itself to our approval.
That reasoning thus proceeds: The codicil contains a revocation and a gift. The two are wholly distinct, the one from
the other. As therefore the revocation refers by name to the
-bequest made to the - fome for Incurables, and revokes it,
therefore the provision made by the will for testacy as to the
entire remainder is destroyed, even although the gift made
by the codicil is only of five thousand dollars, and despite the
fact that it plainly, by its terms, refers solely to a bequest
of that amount made in the will. But to adopt this view
compels a distortion of the language of the codicil, a mutilation of its context, and a division of its provisions into two
distinct and substantive matters, when in fact on the face of
the codicil it contains but one provision, a revocation and a
gift, the one dependent upon the other, the one caused by the
other; that is to say, a revocation made in order to give and
a gift made solely of the -thing revoked. Indeed, to support
the view that because the name of the Home for Incurables
is stated in the codicil, that instrument had reference to the
bequest and*devise of the remainder of the estate made by
the will, requires hot only the arbitrary division of a single
.sentence in the codicil into two parts, although they are indissolubly connected, but also necessitates a misconstruction of
another portion of the will. " This follows from the fact that
even although the revoking part ,of the sentence be alone
taken into view, dissevered from that with which it is connected in the codicil by a union of thoughts and of words
which cannot be disassociated, the codicil cannot be said to
apply to the gift of the remainder without destroying the signification of its language. The thing annulled and revoked
by the codicil is not the bequest and devise of the remainder,
but the beyuest-by the will made. The language of the codicil

'HOME FOR IICURABLES v. NOBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

is: "I hereby revoke and annul the bequest therein made
by me." But only one "bequest," that is, the one for five
thousand dollars, existed -in the will. To cause the word
"bequest" to refer to the remainder is to enlarge its scope
and significance beyond its legal import. True, to justify the
construction that the word "bequest" is synonymous with a
bequest and devise of the remainder, it is said that the testatrix by her will "directed" the trustee to sell the real property and to convert all the estate into personal property, and
therefore that it might well have been contemplated by her
that when the time arrived for a distribution of the estate
that the remainder would consist solely of personal property,
and' therefore, in mental contemplation, the testatrix may
naturally have assumed that the transmission of the remainder
would be but a bequest exclusively of personal property. This
overlooks the fact that the will and codicil were written on
the same day; that the period when the life estate was to
cease and the gifts made by the will were to become operative was necessarily wh6lly uncertain, and that the terms of
the Will and codicil evidently relate. to the condition of the
estate at the time that they were made and not to that
which might exist at a subsequent and uncertain period. The
reasoning moreover must rest on. a self-evident disregard of
the terms of the will, which does not, as is expressly asserted
to be the case, "1direct ' the trustee to convert the real estate
into personal property, but simply "aut h orized" it to so do.
And this analysis which demonstrates that the terms of the
codicil do not apply to the bequest and devise of the remainder
so as to bring about intestacy, also with equal conclusiveness
shows that the codicil cannot be construed as reducing the
bequest and devise of the remainder to the extent of the five
thousand dollars which the codicil gives. To so construe it
would be to obliterate the words ' the five thousand dollars
heretofore in my will bequeathed." It would be to assume
that a revocation of a gift in the will had been made by the
codicil when there was no necessity for so doing, for if the
testatrix had intended simply to give five thousand dollars
.out of the residue, the mere expression of an intention to give

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898. "
Opinion of the Court.

,five thousand dollars would have been entirely sufficient in
law to effect such purpose without the slightest necessity of
any revocatory clause whatever. This is but to state in another forni the abounding reason we have already mentioned,
that the express result of -the words of the codicil was .not
alone to revoke a provision of the will, but to do so solely to
the extent and for the purpose of executing the new' intention
conceived by the testatrix by dedicating a particular and
named bequest made br the will to the new purpose, and,
hence, that the thing selected for revocation and substitution
was accurately described in the codicil, omitting the name of
the beneficiary thfereof, as "eke bequest"
"of five
C.
thousand. dollars heretofore in my will bequeathed." Considered in its ultimate aspect, the proposition that the codicil
gave five thousand dollars to the legatee named therein out
of the remainder necessarily affirms that the, codicil relates to
the remainder, and therefore asserts that the testatrix intended not simply, to revoke in order to substitute the new
beneficiary to the specific sum revoked, but to create an independent provision wholly disconnected from the bequest made
by the will. But this cannot be maintained without striking
out the major part 'of the codicil; 6nid thus frustrating the
plain intention of the testatrix -unambiguously expressed in
the letter and obviously within the spirit of the instrument.
As, then, the codicil does not, in whole or in part, refer to
the bequest and devise of all the residue and remainder made
by the will in favor of the Home for Incurables, it remains
:only to consider whether it operates upon the bequest of five
thousandldollars made by the will lit
favor of the Hospital of
the University of Pennsylvania. If it does, it substituted the
legatee named ii the codicil for the institution in question.
If it does not, the codicil is void for uncertainty, since there
is no other source from which the sum to execute the gift
which it makes can be taken. Conversely it results that all
the reasoning bywhich it has become manifest that the codicil did not either apply to. the gift of the remainder, establishes that it does so apply to the gift made by the will in
favor of theHospital of the University of Pennsylvania. In

HOME FOR INCURABLES v. NOBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

the first place the gift to that corporation is the -only specific.
bequest found in the will, and in the second place it is of the
same amount as that named in the codicil. It is therefore
embraced within the strictest letter of the description given
by that instrument, "the bequest therein (in the will) made
by me," and "the five thousand dollars heretofore in my will
bequeathed." And a consideration of the whole scope of
the will strengthens the force of the language of the codicik
The bequest of five thousand dollars given by the will to she
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania was to b used by
it "to endow and forever maintain a first-class perpetual bed
in said hospital in the city of Philadelphia, said bed to be in
the name and memory of my beloved so-a Aalancthon Love
Ruth." The bequest and devise of "all' the residue and remainder of my said estate of whatever kind" in favor of the
Ho, ie for Incurables was "to endow and forever maintain
one or more beds in said home in the name and memory of
my beloved son Malanothon Love Ruth." The purpose then
of both gifts was the same. Now, the declared motive generating the making of the codicil in favor of Mrs. Colvilie
was "on account of her kindness to my son and myself during his and my illness and my distress." The natural interpretation of the intention upon which the three provisions
rests is reasonably as follows: Having provided for the perpetuation of the memory of the son by the execution of works
of charity of substantially the same nature by two different
institutions, the one by the use of five thousand dollars to
support one bed, and the other and more important by the
application of all the residue and remainder of the estate to
support one or more beds, when the mind of the testatrix
came to the conclusion that her tenderness to the memory of
her son should be manifested by a gift to one who had befriended him, the means of executing this thought which she
selected was this, not the revocation or impairment of the
greater provision made by the will for honoring the memory
of the son, but the transfer of the previous and lesser provision of five thousand dollars to the new legatee. By this
means the general plan expressed by the will was unaltered,

OCTOBER TERA 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

despite the execution of the conception which the codicil embodied. It may, in consonance with reason, be considered
that the testatrix, whose mind, as -the codicil shows, was
charged with the recollection of the purposes expressed in her
will, should have inadvertently used a wrong name, especially
as each of the beneficiaries under the will were to apply the
thing given to a like good work. It cannot, however, without denying the reason of things, be successfully asserted that
although the testatrix specifically pointed out the clause in
her will which she revoked, nevertheless by the mere mistaken use of the name of the person she destroyed or intended
to destroy the plain and specific description which she vividly
embodied in the very sentence where the. name was inadvertently stated.
From the foregoing, it results that the use of the name
Home for Incurables, in the codicil, was but a mere mistaken
designation, dominated and controlled by the description of
the chairacter of thing to be affected by the codicil stated
therein. Guided by the principles enunciated in the authorities to which reference at the outset was made, such mere mistake may be corrected, in construing the will, by disregarding
the error and following the full and accurate descriaption which
will then be contained in the instrument; and hence that the
effect of the codicil was to revoke the bequest of five thousand
dollars, made by the will in favor of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and to*substitute therefor the legatee
named in the codicil.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of the Districtof Columbia must be reversed,and the cause remanded to that court
with directions to afirm the decree of the Supreme Court
of the -District,the costs of all partiesto be paid out of the
estate,,and it is so ordered.
MR. JusTICE GRAY, not having heard the argument, took no
part in the decision of this case.

