MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. TRUST CO. v. KRUMSEIG.

351

Syllabus.

letter thus conveyed by the carrier is, within the statute, an
intention t9 have it conveyed by mail. The difficulties of
detecting this kind of crime are very great, and the statute
ought not to be so construed as to substantially, prevent a
conviction under it. A decoy letter is not subject to the criticism frequently properly made in regard to other measures
sometimes resorted to, that it is placing temptation before a
man and endeavoring to make him commit a crime. There
is no temptation by a decoy letter. It is the same as all other
letters to outWard appearance, and the duty of the carrier
who takes it is the same.
The fact that it is to a fictitious person is ih all probability
entirely unknown to the carrier, and even if known is immaterial. Indeed, if suspected by the carrier, the suspicion would
cause him to exercise particular care to ensure its safety, under
the belief that it was a decoy.
The other objections taken upon the trial we have examined
and are of opinion they arewithout merit, and the judgment
A

is therefore

md.

.MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS TRUST COMPANY
v.KRUMISEIG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 66. Argued December 2, 1898.- Decided January 8, 1899.
Usury is a statutory offence, and Federal courts, in dealing with such a
question, must look to the laws of the State where the transaction took
place, and follow the construction put upon such laws by the state
courts.

When a State thinks that the evils of usury are best prevented by making
usurious contracts void, and by giving a right to the borrowers to have
such contracts unconditionally nullified and cancelled by the courts, as in
this case, such a view of public policy, In respect to contracts made
within the State and sought to be enforced therein, is obligatory on the
Federal courts, whether acting in equity, or at law; and the local law,
consisting of the applicable statutes, as construed by the Supreme Court
of the State, furnishes the rule of decision. ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
These views are not applicable to cases arising out of interstate dommerce,
where the policy to be enforced is Federal.
Whether the contract between the parties in this case was, as'a contract of
life insurance, void because the defendant bad not complied with the
statutes of Minnesota, has not been considered by the court.

IN

May, 1894, Theodore M. Krumseig and Louise Krumseig

filed in ihe district court of the eleventh judicial district of
Minnesota a bill of complaint against the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Trust Company, a corporation of the State of Misgouri, praying that, for reasons alleged in the bill, a certain
mortgage made by complainants on the 5th day of September,
1890, and delivered to the defendant, and by it recorded, and
certain notes therein mentioned, might be cancelled, and the
defendant be permanently enjoined from enforcing the same.
The defendant thereupon, by due proceedings, removed the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, where the Union Trust Company of
Philadelphia was made a .co-defendant, and the case was so
proceeded in that, on October 22, 1895, a final decree was
entered, granting the prayers of the complainants, declaring
the said mortgage and notes to be void, and enjoining the
defendants from ever taking any action or proceeding for
their enforcement. - 71 Fed. Rep. 350.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, -where, on November 5,
1896, the decree of the Circuit Court was'affirmed. 40 U. S.
App. 620. On March 20, 1897, on petition of the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Trust Company, 4 writ of certiorari was
awarded whereby the record and proceedings in said cause
were brought for review into this court.
Xft. William

. White for the Trust Company.

.Mr. J. B. Richards for Krumseig.
MR. JUSTIcE SHnMAs, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of complaint alleged that on July 27, 1890, Theodore M. Krumseig, one of the complainants, made a written

MISSOURI, KANISAS &c. TRUST CO. v. KRUMSEIG.

353

Opinion of the Court.

application to defendant, a corporation of the State of Missouri, for a loan of $2000, to be secured upon real estate'in
the dity of Duluth, Minnesota, and among the conditions in
the said application was the following:
"In consideration of the above premises, I agree to execute and deliver to the said company ten promissory notes,
each of the sum of' $360, payable in monthly instahnents of
$30, cbmmencing at date of signing contract. The said notes
aver principal sum loaned, interest and cost of guarantee to
cancel debt in case of death, and shall be secured by good
and sufficient deed of trust or mortgage executed by myself
and wife on said ground and improvements. The contract
hereafter to be entered into, if my application shall be accepted
and contract entered into in writing between myself and said
company, shall provide that the mortgage or deed of trust
given to secure the above notes shall contain a clause guaranteeing in case of my death before payment of any unpaid instalments, a release of unpaid portion of debt, if I shall have
promptly paid previous instalments and kept other conditions. As part of foregoing condition I agree, before acceptance of this application and the execution of said contract, to
pass such medical examination as may be required: by said
company; and to pay said company the usual $3 fee therefor,
and to pay all fees for recording deed of trust or mortgage."
The bill further alleged that thereupon Krumseig passed
the medical examination required, paid the fee demanded,
and complainants then executed ten certain promissory notes,
each for the sum of $360, dated September 5, 1890, payable in
monthly instalments of $30, with interest at ten per cent after
due, forty-one of which instalments, amounting to $1230, have
been paid; on the same day, in order to secure these notes,
they executed and delivered to the defendant a mortgage on
the premises, with the usual covenants of warranty and defeasance, reciting the indebtedness. of $3600, in manner and
form aforesaid, and containing the following clause:
"And it is further understood and agreed by and between
the said parties of the first part, their executors, administrators
or assigns, and the said partyof the second part, the Missouri,
VOL. cLxxrx-23

' 354:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Kansas and Texas Trust Company, that in case the said Theodore M. Krumseig, one of the parties of the first part, should
die after the execution and delivery of the said notes and this
mortgage, and within ten years thereafter, each and every
of the said notes remaining unpaid at the said date shall be
surrendered to the executors or administrators of the said
Theodore ]M. Krumseig, one of the parties of the first part,
and this mortgage shall be cancelled and satisfied; provided,
however, that said parties of the first part shall have promptly
paid each monthly instalment that shall have become due prior
to his death according to the terms of the notes hereinbefore
mentioned, and that he has not committed suicide within two
years, and has not without written consent of the party of the
second part visited the torrid zone, or personally engaged in
the business of blasting, mining or submarine operations, or
in the manufactuie, handling or transportation of explosives,
or entered into the service of any railroad train, or on a steam
or sailing vessel for two years."
The bill further alleged that the sole consideration for the
notes and mortgage was: 1st, the sum of $1970, together with
the interest thereon from date until maturity of the instalment notes; and, 2d, the clause in the mortgage last referred
to, Which latter was in fact an arrangement between the respondent and the Prudential Life Insurance Company of Newark,
New Jersey, to saye the former harmless from any loss. that
might occur to it in case of the death of the complainant,
Theodore ]M. Krumseig, during the term covered by the mortgage. It was also alleged that the defendant company had
not complied with the laws of the State of Minnesota governing life insuranfce companies, and that the contract was therefore void. The bill prayed that the mortgage be cancelled of
record and-the remaining notes should be delivered up to
them.
The answer denied that the contract was usurious, and
alleged that the sum of $1970, received by complainants with
the legal interest thereon and the cost of the guaranty of
defendant to cancel the loan in case of the death of Theodore
M. Krumseig during the continuance of the contract, consti-

MISSOURI, KA ISAS &c. TRUST CO. v. KRUMSEIG.

355

Opinion of the Court.

tuted a full and ample consideration for the notes and mortgage-in question, and that the same was so understood and
agreed to by complainants at the time of the execution of the
contract.
The.Circuit Court did not consider it necessary to pass upon.
the question whether the contract was one of life insurance.
and hence void, for the admitted fact that the defendant company had not complied with the laws of Minnesota respecting
life insurance companies; but regarded the contract as one
for the security and payment of borrowed money, and, under
the facts, as usurious and void under the statute of Minnesota;
and granted the relief prayed for in the bill. 71 Fed. Rep. 350.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree of the
Circuit Court. Two of the judges concurred in holding that
the contract was usurious, and that the complainants were
therefore entitled to the relief .prayed for. One of the two
judges so holding construed the contract as one of life insurance, and hence also void under the Minnesota laws. The
third judge, while apparently concurring in the view that the
contract was usurious, thought that the complainants were not
entitled to a remedy for a reason which we shall presently
consider. 40 U. S. App. 620.
Usury is, of course, merely a statutory offence, and Federal
courts in dealing with such a question must look to the laws
of the State where the transaction took place, and follow the
construction put upon such laws by the state courts. De IFo~f
v. Johnson, 10 Wheat. 367; Scudder v. Union 2Vational Bank,
91 U. S. 406.
Section 2212, General Statutes of Minnesota of 1894, pro-.
vides that upon the loan of money any charge above ten per
cent shall be usurious; and section 2217 provides that "when'ever it satisfactorily appears to a court that any bond, bill,
note, assurance, pledge, conveyance, contract, security or
evidence of debt has been taken or received in violation of
the provisions of this act, the court shall declare the same to
be void, and enjoin any proceedings thereon, and shall order
the same to be cancelled and given up."
As was said in De Woyf v. Johnon, above cited, it does not,

0CTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

in general, comport with a.negotiation for a loan of money
that anything should enter into the views of, the parties, but
money, or those substitutes which, from their approximation
to money, circulate with corresponding, if not equal; facility.
Still, however, like every other case, it is open to explanation,
and the question always is whether it was or was not a subterfuge to evade the laws against usury. The books contain
many cases where artful contrivances have been resorted to,
whereby the lender is to receive some other advantage or
thing of value beyond the repayment of the loan with legal
interest. - Sometimes the agreement has taken the form of the
purchase of an annuity. More frequently there is a collateral
agreement whereby'the borrower is to purchase an article of
property and to pay therefor more than its intrinsic value. It
has been frequently held that to constitute usury, -where the
contract is fair on its face, there must be an intention knowingly to contract for or to take usurious interest, but mere
ignorance of the law will not protect a party from the penalties of usury. Lloyd v. Scott, 4 Pet. 205.
The precise character of the contract between the present
parties is not clear. It has some of the features of a loan of
money ; in other respects it resembles a contract of life insurance. But our examination of its various provisions and of
their legal import has led us to accept the conclusion of
courts below, that the scheme embodied in the application,
notes and mortgage was merely a colorable device to cover'
usury. The Supreme Court of Minnesota has more than once
had occasion to consider this very question. In th, case of
-Missouri,Kansas & Texas Trust Co. v. kMclacMan, 59 Minn.
468,, that court said:
"The peculiar and unusual provisions of this contract themselves- constitute intrinsic evidence sufficient to justify the
iinding of the existence of every essential element of usury,
viz., that there was a loan; that the money was to be returned
at all events, and that more than lawful interest was stipulated
to be paid for the u~e of it. The only one of these which
could be seriously claimed to be lacking was that the money
was not to be paid at all events, but only upon a contingency,

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. TRUST CO. v. KRUMSEIG.

357

Opinion of the Court.

to wit, the continuance of the life of McLachlan ; but the facts
warrant the inference that this contingency was not bonafde,
but was itself a mere contrivance to. cover usury. The mere
fact that the contract has the form of a contingency will not
exempt it from the scrutiny of the court, which is bound to
exercise its judgment in determining whether the contingency
be a real one, or a mere shift and device to cover usury."
Similar views were expressed in the subsequent case of
Xatthew8 v. -fiRsouri, Zanas ct Texaa Trust Co., 72 N. W.
Rep. 121, where the Supreme Court of Minnesota again
reached- the conclusion that the notes and mortgage, forming a contract between the same trust company and one
Matthews, -were usurious and void.
The next question for our consideration is one not free from
difficulty. Can a borrower of money upon usurious interest
successfully seek the aid of a court of. equity in cancelling the
debt without making an offer to repay the loan with lawful
interest?
Undoubtedly the general rule is that courts of equity have
a discretion on this subject, and have prescribed the terms on
which their powers can be brought into activity. They will
give no relief to the borrower if the contract be executory,
except on the condition that he pay to the lender the money
lent with legal interest. Nor, if the contract be executed,
will they enable him to recover any more than the excess he
has. paid over the legal interest. Tiffany v. Boatmaes Institution, 18 Wall. 375.
But what, in such a case, is held to be the law by the courts
of the State of Minnesota? Under the statutory provision.
already cited, that whenever it satisfactorily appears to a
court that any bond, bill, note, assurance, pledge, conveyance,
security or evidence of debt has been taken or received in violation of the provisions of this act the court shall declare the
same to be void, and enjoin any proceeding thereon, and
shall order the same to be cancelled and given up, the Supreme Court of Minnesota has repeatedly held that a plaintiff
suing to cancel a Minnesota contract for usury need not offer
to. repay the money loaned. Scott v. Austin, 36 Minn. 460;

.358

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Exley* v. Berryhill, '37. inn. 182; .Matthews V.

isoU?4,

Kansas & Texas Trust Co., '72 N. W. Rep. 121.
Under statutes providing that, in cases of usury, the bor-.
rower is entitled to relief without being required to pay any
part of the usurious debt or interest as a condition thereof, it
has been held by the courts of New York and of Arkansas
that courts of equity are constrained by the statutes, and must
granAt the relief provided for therein without applying the general rule that a bill or other proceeding in equity, to set aside
or affect a usurious. contract,; cahuot be maintained without
paying or offering to pay the amount actually owed. 'Will
iams v. Fitzhgh, 37 N. Y. 444; Lowe v. Ioomis, 53 Ark. 4541.
But it is "strenuously argued, dnd of that opinion was Circuit
Judge Sanborn in the present case, that Federal courts, in the
exercisre of their equity jurisdiction, do not receive any modification from the legislation of the States or the practice of
their courts having similar powers, and ,that consequently no
acb of the legislature of -Minnesota could deprive the Federal
courts sitting in equity Of the power or relieve them of the
duty to enforce and apply 'the established principle of equity
jurisprudence to this case that he who seeks -equity must do
equity, and to require the appell6es to pay. to the appellant
what, they justly owe for p'rincipal and lawful interest as a
condition of granting the relief they ask.
We think it a satisfactory'reply to such- a proposition that
the complainants in tlfe present case were not seeking equity,
liut to' avail themselves of a s*ubstantive.right under the statutory law of the State. It seems to be conceded, or, if not conceded, it is plainly evident,"that if the cause had remained in
the state court where it was originally brought, tthe complainant would' have ,been entitled, under the public policy of the
State of Minnesota, manifested by its statutes as construed
by its courts, to have this usurious contract cancelled and surrendered without tendering payment-of the whole or any part
of the original indebtedness. The defendant company could
not, by removing the.case to; the Federal court, on the ground
that it was ,acitizen of another -State, deprive the complainants of such a substantive right. With the policy of the state

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. TRUST CO. v. KRUMSEIG;

359

Opinion of the Court.

legislation the Federal courts have nothing to do. If the
States, whether New York, Akansas, Minnesota or others,
think that the evils of usury are best prevented by making
usurious contracts void, and by giving a right to the borrowers
to have such contracts unconditionally nullified and -cancelled
by the courts, such a view of public, policy, in respect to contracts made within the State and sought to be enforced therein,
is obligatory on the Federal courts, whether acting in equity
or at law. The local law, .onsisting of the applicable statutes
as.construed by the Supreme Court of the State, furnishes the,
rule of decision.
In Clark et al. v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, it was said that "where
the legislature declareg certain instruments illegal and void, as
the British annuity act does; or as the gaming acts do; there
is inherent in the courts of equity a jurisdiction to order them
to be delivered up, and thereby give effect to the policy of the
The state legislatures have, certainly,
legislature... ..
no authority to prescribe the forms and modes of proceeding
in the courts of tfie United Stateg; but having created a right,
and at the same time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if
the remedy prescribed is substantially consistent with the
ordinary modes .of proceeding on the chancery side of the
Federal courts, no reason exists why it should not be pursued
in the same form as it is in the state courts.

.

.

.

The

undoubted truth is-that when investigating and decreeing on
titles inthis country we must deal with them in practice as
we find them and accommodate our modes of pfoceeding, in a
considerable degree, to the nature of the case, and to the
character of the equities involved in the controversy; so as to
give effect to-state legislation and state policy; not departing, however,.from what legitimately belongs to the practice
of a court of chancery."
.The question in Brine v. In8urance Co., 96 U. S. 627, 633,
was whether astate statute which allowed to the mortgagor
twelve months to redeem, after a sale under a decree of -foreclosure, and to his creditor three months after that, conferred
a substantial right; and it was so held, and that such right of
redemption after sale.was as obligatory on the Federal courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court

sitting in equity as on the state courts; and that their rules
of practice must be made to conform to the law of the State
so far as. may be necessary to give full effect to the right.
The opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Justice Miller,
who said:
"It is denied that these statutes [giving the right to redeem]
are of any force in cases where the decree of foreclosure is
rendered in a court of the United States, on the ground that
the equity practice of these courts is governed solely by the
precedents of the. English Chancery Court as they existed
prior -to the Declaration of Independence, and by such rules
of practice as have been established by the Supreme. Court
of the United States, or adopted by the Circuit Courts for
their own .guidance. And, treating all the proceedings subsequent to a decree which are. necessary for its enforcement
as matter of practice, and as belonging solely to the course of
procedure in courts of equity, i, is said that not only d_ the
manner of conducting the sale under a decree of f9reclosure,
and all the incidentsof such a sale,,come within the rules. of
practie oftie court, but that the effects of such a sale on the
rights acquired by the purchaser and those of the mortgagor
and his subsequent grantees are also mere matters of practice. to be regulated by the rules of thq court, as found in the
sources we have mentioned.
"On the other hand, it is said that the effect, of the sale
and conveyance made by the commissioner is to transfer the
title of real estate from one person to another, and that all
the means by which the title to real property is transferred,
whether by deed, by will or by judicial proceedings, are subject to, and may be governed by, the legislative will, of the
State in which it lies, except where the law of the State on
that subject impairs the obligation of a contract.. And that
all the laws of a State existing at the time a mortgage or. any
other contract is made, which affect the rights of the parties
to the contract, enter into and become a part of it, and are
obligatory on all courts which assume to give romedy on:such
contracts.
"We are of opinion that the propositions last men4
tioned

WASHINGTON MARKET CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

361

Syllabus.

are (iund;' and. if they are in conflict with the general doetrine o6f the exemption from state control of the chancery
prctice .f the Federal courts, as regards mere modes of procedure, they are of paramount force, and the latter must to
that exteat cgive way. It would seem that no argument is
nec,6sa7 to establish the proposition that when substantial
rightp, resting upon. a statute, which is clearly within the legislative power, come in conflict with mere forms and modes
of procedure in the-courts, the latter must give way, and adapt
themselves to the forms necessary to give effect to such rights.
The. flexibility of chancery methods, by which it moulds its
decreesi so as to give appropriate relief in all cases within its
jurisdiction, enables it:to do thisi without violence to principle,
If' one or the other. must give way, good sense unhesitatingly
requiresthat justice and positive rights, founded both on valid
statutes and valid contracts, should not be sacrificed to mere
questionsof mode and form." See also to the same effect the
ease: of -Holland v. Challew, 1:10 ' .S.15.
SOf ourse, these views are. not, applicable to cases arising
out of interstate commefce, where the policy to be enforced is
Federal. Nor has it been found! necessary to consider whether
the agreement between these parties was, as a contract of
life insurance, void because the defendant had not complied
with the statutes of Minnesota.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming that
of the Circuit Court, is accordingly

.4firmed.

WASHINGTON

MARKET COMPANY v. DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

.,PPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 88. Argued December 9, 12, 1898. - Decided January 8, 1899
tn the provision In'the 16th section of the act of May 20, 1870, c. 108, ,,to
incorporate the Washington Market Company," that "the city gqvernnent of Washington shall have the riglit to *hold and use, under such

