'SCOTT v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

One witness for the Government said if you exclude from
the mineral kingdom the gases included in the atmosphere,
you must set up some fourth class of substances; the division
being, generally, the vegetable kingdom, the animal kingdom
and the mineral kingdom; but po such fourth division is ordinarily designated, and the constituents of the atmosphere are
not vegetable and they are not animal, and ordinarily they are
included in the mineral kingdom.
We think the evidence in this case shows that, within the
language of paragraph 651 of the act of Congress, interpreting
that language in accordance with the rule above mentioned,
natural gas would fairly come under the head of a crude mineral, if there were no miore limited classification in the act;
but that the classification as crude bitumen is more limited,
and we are of opinion that, upon the evidence, natural gas
is properly thus described. If it be within the more specific
classification, it would be controlled thereby. It is not irnportant in this case to conclusively decide which classification
covers it, because both are on the free list. As the gas is described jn one or both of the paragraphs, it cannot come under
section 4 of the act, which provides for the levy, collection and
payment on the importation of all raw or unmanufactured
articles, not enumerated or provided for in the act, a duty of
ten per centum ad valorem.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of New York was right, and should be
Aflrmed.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INEW YORK.
No. 80. Submitted December 5, 1898.-

Decided January 3, 1899.

The plaintiff in error, defendant below, a letter carrier, upon his trial
charged with purloining a letter containing money, offered himself as a
witness on his own behalf, denying that he had purloined the money.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.
On cross-exaniination he said that he had enemies in the office, and
named two persons. The Government called both as witnesses, and both
denied that they bore ill will to him. Their evidence was objected to on
the ground that the defendant's evidence on this point was collateral,
brought out by cross-examination, and that the Government was bound
by the answer. Held, that the evidence was admisoible.
A decoy letter, containing money, addressed to a fictitious person, mailed
for the purpose of discovering the frauds of a letter carrier, is to be
treated as a real letter, intended to be conveyed by the mail, within the
meaning of the statutes on that subject.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

AXr. T. C. Camybell for plaintiff in error.
_lr. A s'istant Attorney General Boyd for defendants in
error.
MRi. JUSTICE PECoKHA

delivered the opinion of the court.

Henry W. Scott, the plaintiff in error, was indicted under
section 5467, Revised Statutes, for stealing a letter and its
contents from the mail, and the indictment alleged that he
unlawfully and wilfully .secreted and embezzled a certain
letter intended to be conveyed by mail and directed to Miss
Mary Campbell, Cottonwood, Yavapai County, Arizona, he
being a letter carrier in the city of New York and the letter
having been entrusted to him and having come into his possession in his capacity'as such carrier. The letter contained
$3.50 in two silver certificates of the United States, each of
the denomination of one dollar, and a United States Treasury
note of the denomination of one dollar, and a fifty-cent piece
of the silver coinage of the United States. The evidence
showed that the letter was what is termed a decoy letter;
that the money was placed therein by one of the inspectors of
the Post Office Department; that it was sealed, stamped and
addressed as above mentioned, and deposited about 2.30.o'clock
p.m. in one of the street letter boxes in the city of New York,
in the district from which the defendant collected such letters.
Within a few moments after it was deposited in the letter box
by the inspector, he saw the defendant come to the box, un-

*SCOTT v.- UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

lock it, take out its contents, put them in his bag and continue
on his route. The carrier returned to the branch post office,
station E, where he was employed, a little after three o'clock,
turned the contents of his bag upon the proper table for distribution, and hung the bag and also his coat on a peg, and
left the room and was gone about half an hour. One of the
clerks of the department had been told before the defendant's
arrival with his letter bag to look out for a letter addressed,
as above desdribed, and withdraw it from the mail, and in
obedience to such instructions and during the defendant's
absence he looked through the letters thus taken from his bag,
and the letter was not to be found. Upon the defendant's
return to the distributing room, he took his coat and bag and
started on his route for another collection of letters, and while
on the street he was met by the officers of the Government
about five minutes after four o'clock P.m., and was then arrested
and brought to the station. He was charged with having the
letter, and was asked to show what he had in his pockets.
The letter was not found, but the defendant took from his
right-hand trousers pocket, among other things, the three bills
which had been placed in the letter. The fifty-cent piece was
found-loose among other coins in another pocket. The officers
identified the bills by marks which had been placed on them,
and also by reason of the numbers of the bills, a memorandum
of which had been taken. The coin had been marked and
was identified by the officers.
In relation to the letter,.it appears that it was prepared by
an inspector of the department, who addressed the same to
Miss Mary Campbell. The inspector wrote the body of the
original letter. He did not know Mary Campbelli and never
saw her; it was addressed to her at Cottonwood, Arizona, at
which place there is a post office, but there was no one of the
name of Miss Mary Campbell residing at Cottonwood, Arizona,
to his knowledge. The address on the letter was to a fictitious
person; the money placed in the letter was the money of Mr.
Morris, one of the inspectors.
Upon the trial the defendant was sworn in his own behalf,
and upon his direct examination testified that when he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

arrested and the money found upon him, he said to the inspectors, "Somebody has done me a dirty trick;" to which
one of the inspectors replied, "Do you think I am concerned
in that?" The defendant says that he answered him, '1I did
not think or did not know whether he was; but it he was
not, some enemy of mine in that office was." He denied, on
the witness stand, that he abstrgcted, or took from the collection table, or at -all, any letter such as is described in the
indictment, or any money belonging to any other person in
the world.
Upon cross-examination the district attorney endeavored to
obtain a fuller statement from the defendant as to what he
meant when he said on his direct examination that somebody
had done him a dirty trick, and that some enemy of his in
the office was concerned in it, and- to that end the district
attorney asked him: "Have you any enemies among the
employ6s 'at that station?" and the defendant answered that
lie had one by the name of Augustus Weisner and another
named John D. Silsbee, his former superintendent; that he
was an enemy of his and so was Weisner, and that those two
were all that he regarded as enemies in that office, both being
employed in the same branch office as the defendant, and he
said that for a month before he was arrested he was not on
speaking terms with Weisner.
The court asked the defendant: "What is the trick that
you mean to suggest to the jury that was played upon you?"
and the defendant answered: "The only solution that I can
give of it is that that two dollars had been abstracted from
my pocket and these marked three dollars put in the place
of it. Three dollars and a half placed there; fifty cents in
with this change." The witness had just previously stated
that he left two one-dollar bills belonging to himself in his
coat pocket dt the time he hung his coat upon the peg in the
sortirig room and left it there to go down stairs, and from
which room he was absent about twenty-five minutes.
When the defendant rested the Government called as witnesses John D. Silsbee and Augustus Weisner, the two men
named by the defendant as his enemies, both of whom testi-

-SCOTT v.- UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

fled, under the objection and exception of defendant's counsel,
that they had no ill will whatever towards the defendant, and
that they had never had any quarrels with him, and Weisner
said, on the contrary, that he had liked the man. The counsel
for the defendant objected to this testimony on the ground
that the evidence of the defendant upon this subject was
collateral, brought out by the Government on his cross-examination, and that the Government was bound by his answers.
After the e~idence was all in the counsel for the defendant
requested the court to charge, "That a letter intended to be
conveyed by mail, under the statute, must be addressed to an
existing person, at an existing place; or to a real and genuine
address." The court refused so to charge, and the defendant
excepted.
The defendant's counsel further requested the court to
charge, "That a letter with an impossible address, which can
never be delivered and which the sender, acting conjointly
with post office officials, determined should be intercepted in
the mail, is not such a letter as was, in the meaning of the
statute, ' intended to be conveyed by mail."' This was also
refused, and an exception to such refusal taken by defendant's
counsel.
The jury having convicted the defendant, he has brought
the case here by writ of error.
Regarding the objections taken by the defendant to the
evidence of Silsbee and Weisner, above alluded to, we think
they were properly overruled. The evidence objected to was
not irrelevant, and the Government was not bound by the
answers of the defendant as to Silsbee and Weisner being
his enemies. When arrested the defendant had upon his
person the three bills and the fifty-cent piece which had been
marked by the post office inspectors and placed in the letter
and deposited in the letter box, addressed as stated. Appreciating-his position, the defendant endeavored then and there
to account for his possession of the money, and he accounted
for it by saying that some one, some enemy of his at the
office, had done him a dirty trick, by which, as he testified,
he meant to say that some one had deposited that money in

OCTOBER TER-1, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

his coat pocket while his coat hung up in the sorting room,
and while he was absent from that room. This evidence of
defendant was an attempt to raise a suspicion, at least, that
some enemy of his in the building had placed this money in
his coat, and thereby to relieve himself from the suspicion
of having stolen it and to show his own innocence. It was
an attempt at an explanation showing an honest possession
of the money. It -was therefore admissible, upon cross-examination, for the purpose of showing the improbability of
the explanation, to obtain from the witness all the circumstances which might throw light upon the subject. For that
purpose he was asked if he had any enemies in the department, and he skid that he had, naming two employ~s at this
particular station, one the superintendent and the other a fel-

low letter carrier.
If this were true, it might have been argued to the jary
that the explanation of defendant was strengthened, and the
inference that one or both of these enemies had done this
trick might for that reason have been maintained with more
plausibility. - To show that no such inference could properly
be drawn, the Government proved that the men the defendant
named as enemies were not such" in fact. The evidence was
not collateral to the main issue of guilt or innocence, nor was
The district
the subject first drawn out by the Government.
the names
obtained
simply
cross-examination
attorney on the
of those upon whom the defendant attempted to cast a suspicion by his statemefit in chief. He could not escape from
the possibility of being contradicted, by the failure to name
the enemies on his direct examination. That examination
suggested an explanation which, if believed, showed an innocent possession, and however improbable it was, the Government had the right to pursue the subject and to show that it
was unfounded.. The objection to the evidence cannot therefore be sustained.
We think the court below was also right in its refusal to
charge as abore requested regarding the decoy letter. The
correctness of the ruling has in substance been already upheld in this court.

SCOTT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In .Montgomery v. United States, 162 U. S. 410, we not
only decided that, upon an indictment against a letter carrier, charged with secreting, etc., a letter containing money
in United States currency, the fact that the letter was a decoy was no defence, but it was also held that the further fact
that the decoy letters (mentioned in the case) and the moneys
enclosed therein, although belonging to the inspectors who
mailed them and by whom they were to be intercepted and
*to be withdrawn from the mails before they reached the persons to whom they were addressed, was no defence, and that
such letters were in reality intended to be conveyed by mail
within the meaning of the statute on that subject. In that
case the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Shiras, said:
"Error was likewise assigned to the refusal of the court to
charge that there was a fatal variance between the indictment
and proof in respect to the description of the letters, for the
stealing or embezzling of which the defendant was indicted.
"In the indictment it was averred that the letters in question had come into the defendant's possession as a railway
postal clerk, to be conveyed by mail, and to be delivered to
the persons addressed. It was disclosed by the evidence that
the letters and money thus mailed belonged to the inspectors
who mailed them, and were to be intercepted and withdrawn
from the- mails by them before they reached the persofis to
whom they were addressed.
"There is no merit in this assignment. The letters put in
evidence corresponded, in address and contents, to the letters.
described in the indictment, and it made no difference, with
respect to the duty of the carrier, whether the letters were
genuine or decoys with a fictitious address. Substantially this
question was ruled in the case of Goode v. United States, above
cited."
In the last cited case, which is reported in 159 U. S.
663, the court said, at p. 671, speaking through Mr. Justice
Brown:
"It makes no difference, with respect to the duty of the
carrier, whether the letter be genuine or a decoy, with a fictitious address. Coming into his possession, as such carrier it

OCTOBER TERMe, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

is his duty to treat it for what it appears to be on its face a genuine communication; to make an effort to deliver it, or,
if the address be not upon his route, to hand it to the proper
carrier, or put it into the list box. Certainly he has no more
right to appropriate it to himself than he would have if it
were a genuine letter. For the purposes of these sections a
letter is a writing or document, which bears the outward
semblance of a genuine communication, and comes into the
possession of the employ6 in the regular course of his official
.business. His duties in respect to it are not relaxed by the
fact or by his knowledge that it is not what it purports to be
- in other words, it is not for him to judge of its genuineness."
In this case, the letter was addressed, although to a fictitious
personage, yet to a post office within the Territory of Arizona.
It was properly stamped, and it was placed and came within
the jurisdiction and authority of the Post Office Department
by being dropped into a United States street letter box, in
the city of New York. The duty of the defendant was, as
above stated, precisely the same in regard to that as to any
and all other letters that came into his possession from these
various letter boxes. The intention to convey by mail is
sufficiently proved in such a case as this, by evidence of the
delivery of a. letter into the jurisdiction of the Post Office
Department by dropping it in a letter box as described herein.
Section 5468, Revised Statutes, provides that the fact that
any letter has been deposited in any post office, or brqnch
post office, or in any authorized depository for mail matter,
etc., shall be evidence that it was intended to be conveyed by
mail, within the meaning of the two preceding sections. This
primafacie evidence is not contradicted or modified by proof,
as in this case,,that the letter was a decoy and addressed to
a fictitious person. It was deposited in a proper letter box,
and it was intended that it should be taken and conveyed by
defendant, a mail carrier, and his duty as such carrier was to
convey it to the station post office, and while so being carried
it was being conveyed by mail, and was under the protection
of the Post Office Department, and its safety provided for by
the statute under consideration. An fntention to have the'

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. TRUST CO. v. KRUMSEIG.

351

Syllabus.

letter thus conveyed by the carrier is, within the statute, an
intention t9 have it conveyed by mail. The difficulties of
detecting this kind of crime are very great, and the statute
ought not to be so construed as to substantially, prevent a
conviction under it. A decoy letter is not subject to the criticism frequently properly made in regard to other measures
sometimes resorted to, that it is placing temptation before a
man and endeavoring to make him commit a crime. There
is no temptation by a decoy letter. It is the same as all other
letters to outWard appearance, and the duty of the carrier
who takes it is the same.
The fact that it is to a fictitious person is ih all probability
entirely unknown to the carrier, and even if known is immaterial. Indeed, if suspected by the carrier, the suspicion would
cause him to exercise particular care to ensure its safety, under
the belief that it was a decoy.
The other objections taken upon the trial we have examined
and are of opinion they arewithout merit, and the judgment
A

is therefore

md.

.MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS TRUST COMPANY
v.KRUMISEIG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 66. Argued December 2, 1898.- Decided January 8, 1899.
Usury is a statutory offence, and Federal courts, in dealing with such a
question, must look to the laws of the State where the transaction took
place, and follow the construction put upon such laws by the state
courts.

When a State thinks that the evils of usury are best prevented by making
usurious contracts void, and by giving a right to the borrowers to have
such contracts unconditionally nullified and cancelled by the courts, as in
this case, such a view of public policy, In respect to contracts made
within the State and sought to be enforced therein, is obligatory on the
Federal courts, whether acting in equity, or at law; and the local law,
consisting of the applicable statutes, as construed by the Supreme Court
of the State, furnishes the rule of decision. ,

