COUSINS v. WIGODA
Opinion in Chambers

COUSINS

ET AL.

v. WIGODA

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-1.

Decided July 1, 1972

Respondent sought in state court a deciaratory judgment that he
had been duly elected as a delegate to the Democratic National
Convention scheduled to convene on July 10, 1972, and an injunction prohibiting applicants from interfering. Applicants obtained
a United States District Court injunction against the injunctive
aspect of the state court action, but that injunction was vacated
by the Court of Appeals. Held: The state courts being available to applicants for vindication of their constitutional claims,
the application for a stay of the Court of Appeals order is denied.
See: 463 F. 2d 603.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants have applied to me as Circuit Justice to stay
an order entered by the Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit on Thursday, June 29, 1972. A divided panel of
that court vacated an injunction issued at applicants'
behest by the District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois and further ordered that its mandate issue immediately. Because applicants' application raised what
seemed to me to be significant legal issues of importance
not only to them but to the public as a whole, I heard
oral argument of counsel on the application.
In April 1972, following the Illinois primary election,
respondent Wigoda brought an action in the circuit court
of Cook County, Illinois, requesting a declaratory judgment that he and others had been duly elected as delegates to the Democratic National Convention in accordance with Illinois law, and seeking an injunction against
applicants to prohibit them from interfering with or impeding the functioning of respondent as a duly elected
delegate.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

Applicants removed this action to the United States
District Court, from which it was then remanded to the
state court. Applicants then brought a separate action
in the District Court, alleging that the pendency of the
state court action infringed their associational rights
guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments to
the United States Constitution. In reliance on 42 U. S. C.
§ 1983, they sought an injunction against further
prosecution of the state court action. The District Court
heard evidence and enjoined the prosecution of so much
of the state court action as sought injunctive relief against
the applicants, leaving the state court free to proceed
with the declaratory judgment aspect of respondent's action. Respondent appealed from the order of the District Court granting injunctive relief, and the Court of
Appeals then entered the order described above vacating
the injunction of the District Court.
Both the state and federal court actions arise out of
disputes between the parties as to what group of delegates from Illinois shall be seated at the Democratic National Convention to be held in Miami Beach, Florida,
beginning July 10. Respondent contends that he and
the others whom he seeks to represent were delegates
elected to the convention in accordance with Illinois law
at the Illinois primary election. Applicants contend that
the Illinois delegate selection process does not conform
to standards established by the national Democratic
Party, and that, therefore, they and others associated with
them, rather than respondent, should be seated by the
Democratic National Convention.
Since the Court of Appeals entered its order of June 29,
two additional events have supervened. On June 30, the
circuit court of Cook County in which respondent's original action was pending entered a temporary restraining
order enjoining applicants from "submitting or causing
to be submitted to the National Democratic Party, the

COUSINS v. WIGODA
1201

Opinion in Chambers

Democratic National Committee or the Credentials Committee thereof, the name, or names, of any person, or persons, as prospective delegates to the 1972 Democratic
National Convention" from various Illinois districts.
That order also provided that "except as herein before ordered" nothing in the order should prevent the applicants from "speaking on behalf of their challenge before
the Credentials Committee, holding meetings or engaging
in other activities commensurate with their rights of free
speech and association under the First and Fourteenth
Amendments to the United States Constitution." The
circuit court further ordered that the matter be set for
hearing on the motion of respondent for a preliminary
injunction at 11 a. m. on Wednesday, July 5, in that
court.
On June 30, the Credentials Committee of the Democratic National Convention voted to sustain the challenge made by applicants and others to respondent and
the delegates associated with him, and to recommend to
the convention that applicants and other delegates associated with them be seated by the Democratic National
Convention. It is my understanding that this action
on the part of the Credentials Committee is subject to review by the convention at its meeting in Miami Beach.
At the outset I am faced with a problem which, if not
technically one of authority, is at the very least one of
the scope of my discretion in acting on the application.
The authority of a Circuit Justice to grant a stay in
cases such as this stems from the provisions of 28 U. S. C.
§ 2101 (f), which reads in pertinent part as follows:
"In any case in which the final judgment or decree
of any court is subject to review by the Supreme
Court on writ of certiorari, the execution and enforcement of such judgment or decree may be stayed
for a reasonable time to enable the party aggrieved
to obtain a writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

The stay may be granted by a judge of the court
rendering the judgment or decree or by a justice
of the Supreme Court ....
While this case is one in which the judgment of the
Court of Appeals is undoubtedly "subject to review by
the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari," as a practical
matter it will become moot upon the adjournment of the
Democratic National Convention, which customarily
takes place in the latter part of the week in which the
convention opens. On June 29, this Court adjourned
until the first Monday in October, as is its annual custom. There will therefore be no possibility of this
Court's convening and granting a writ of certiorari to
review the judgment below unless THE CHIEF JUSTICE
should determine that a Special Term of Court be convened in order to hear this case. Such Special Terms
have, to my knowledge, been held only four times in
the recent history of the Court: In 1942 the Court
was convened to consider whether the President had
authority in time of war to exclude enemy aliens from
access to civilian courts, and to order them tried before military tribunals for acts of sabotage. Ex parte
Quirin, 317 U. S. 1 (1942). A Special Term was convened in 1953 to hear the Government's motion to vacate
a stay of execution of a death sentence against the
Rosenbergs for espionage, after exhaustive appellate review of their conviction. Rosenberg v. United States,
346 U. S. 273 (1953). See also id., at 271. In 1958 a
Special Term was held to review the Little Rock school
desegregation case in time for implementation in the
fall school term. Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U. S. 1 (1958).
Without in any way disparaging the importance of
this case not only to the parties involved in it, but to the
political processes of the country, I simply do not believe
that it is the same type of case which has caused the
Court to convene in Special Term on previous occasions.

COUSINS v. WIGODA
1201

Opinion in Chambers

Both the presumptive availability of the Illinois courts to
redress any deprivation of applicants' constitutional
rights, which I discuss in more detail below, and the
necessarily highly speculative nature of any connection
between the outstanding order of the state court and the
choice of a presidential candidate by the Democratic
National Convention lead me to conclude that this case
is not comparable to those. I therefore conclude that this
is not a case in which I would be warranted in requesting
THE CHIEF JUSTICE to convene a special session of this
Court. See the opinion of Mr. Justice Harlan in chambers in Travia v. Lomenzo, 86 S. Ct. 7, 15 L. Ed. 2d 46
(1965).
Having so concluded, I must recognize the fact that
were I to grant the stay requested by applicants, the
result would be a determination on the merits of the
federal litigation in their favor without any prospect of
review of my action by the full membership of this Court.
While I think that the provisions of 28 U. S. C. § 2101 (f)
confer upon me the technical authority to grant a stay
in these circumstances, I would be moved to use that
authority only if I were satisfied that the judgment under
review represented the most egregious departure from
wholly settled principles of law established by the decisions of this Court.
The majority of the panel of the Court of Appeals, in
its opinion released yesterday, relied on the principles of
comity between federal and state courts as enunciated by
this Court's decisions in Younger v. Harris,401 U. S. 37
(1971), and Mitchum v. Foster, 407 U. S. 225 (1972).
While Younger and its companion cases involved state
criminal prosecutions, the principles of federal comity
upon which it was based are enunciated in earlier decisions of this Court dealing with civil as well as criminal
matters. See the cases cited in Mitchum, supra, at 243.
The Court in Mitchun, after holding that 42 U. S. C.

1206

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

§ 1983, under which petitioners brought this action in the
District Court, was an exception to the provisions of the
Anti-Injunction Act, 28 U. S. C. § 2283, went on to say:
"In so concluding, we do not question or qualify in
any way the principles of equity, comity, and federalism that must restrain a federal court when asked
to enjoin a state court proceeding." Ibid.
While the test to be applied may be less stringent in civil
cases than in criminal, the cases cited in Mitchum make
clear that the federal courts will not casually enjoin the
conduct of pending state court proceedings of either type.
Applicants make out what must be described as at least
a plausible case that a portion of the decree issued by
the circuit court of Cook County does abridge their associational rights guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth
Amendments. But the teaching of Younger, supra, and
Mitchum, supra, as I understand them, is that a plausible
claim of constitutional infringement does not automatically entitle one to avail himself of the injunctive
processes of the federal courts in order to prevent the conduct of pending litigation in the state courts. The opinion issued by the Court of Appeals majority specifically
alluded to applicants' failure to allege that they could
not adequately vindicate their constitutional claims in the
Illinois state courts, and I must conclude that those
courts are available to applicants for this purpose.
Mindful, therefore, of the principles of comity enjoined
by our federal system, of the deference due to the judgment of the Court of Appeals (see Breswick & Co. v.
United States, 75 S. Ct. 912, 100 L. Ed. 1510 (1955)
(Harlan, J., in chambers)), and of the extraordinary burden which falls upon applicants when they seek a stay
from a single Justice which would in effect dispose of
the litigation on its merits, I conclude that they have
failed to meet that burden. An order will therefore be
entered denying the application for a stay of the order
and mandate of the Court of Appeals.

