OCTOBER TERM, 1972

1238

Opinion in Chambers

IN RE BERG
ON

APPLICATION

FOR

STAY

AND

409 U. S.

ET AL.
BAIL

PENDING

APPEAL

No. A-460. Decided November 2, 1972
Applicants, who were found in civil contempt after refusing to
testify before a grand jury, have applied for a stay, contending
that they and their attorneys were subjected to illegal electronic
surveillance. The Government denied such surveillance with
respect to the applicants and asserted its unawareness thereof
with respect to the attorneys but did not show that diligent
inquiry had been made. Held: A stay is granted until the matter
can be presented to, and acted on by, the full Court.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

The Court of Appeals granted a stay in this case until
5:30 p. m. (P. s. t.) today. While the application was
filed here October 28, 1972, I did not desire to act until
the Solicitor General had time to respond. His response
came in yesterday afternoon.
My conclusion is that the case is analogous to the
Ellsberg case (Russo v. Byrne, No. 72-307, 0. T. 1972)
now before the Court; but is more particularly related to
Black v. United States, 385 U. S. 26, and O'Brien v.
United States, 386 U. S. 345.
The issue of electronic surveillance in the present
case raises questions under the Sixth as well as the
Fourth Amendment. Central is the question whether
the unawareness of the prosecution is sufficient to bring
to an end the judicial inquiry or whether some diligent
search of the prosecution is necessary.* In Black a new
*While the prosecution filed affidavits that none of applicants'
conversations was "bugged," there had been no search
versations of their attorneys. It would seem that a
"aggrieved" person within the meaning of 18 U. S. C.
and 3504 (a) (1) when and if the conversations of his
"bugged" and used against him.

for any conclient is an
§§ 2510 (11)
attorney are

IN RE BERG
1238

1239

Opinion in Chambers

trial was ordered even though the prosecutor did not
know he had in his possession attorney-client conversations and even though none of them was used.
I have concluded to grant a stay, good until the matter
can be presented to the full Court and until the Court
acts on it.

