NEBRASKA v. IOWA

Per Curiam

NEBRASKA v. IOWA
No. 17, Orig.

Decided April 24, 1972-Decided

and Decree entered January 8, 1973
Opinion reported: 406 U. S. 117.
PER CURIAM and DECREE.

The Special Master, as directed in Nebraska v. Iowa,
406 U. S. 117, 127 (1972), has submitted a proposed
Decree. Nebraska accepts it but Iowa filed five Exceptions, to which Nebraska replied. Upon consideration of the Exceptions in light of our opinion and the
Report of the Special Master, Iowa's Exceptions II and
III are overruled and Exceptions I, IV, and V are sustained insofar as paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Proposed
Decree are revised in the following Decree, the entry of
which is directed:
IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND DECREED THAT:
1. The Missouri River was the boundary between
the States of Iowa and Nebraska which was subject to
the general rules of accretion and avulsion until 1943
when the states determined to agree by compact upon
a permanent location of the boundary line.
2. By 1943 the shifts of the Missouri River channel had been so numerous and intricate, both in its
natural state and as a result of the work of the Corps
of Engineers, that it was practically impossible to
locate the original boundary line between the states.
3. The Compact between the states effective July 12,
1943, provides in Section 3 as adopted by Iowa:
"Titles, mortgages and other liens good in Nebraska
shall be good in Iowa as to any lands Nebraska may
cede to Iowa and any pending suits or actions concerning said lands may be prosecuted to final judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Per Curiam

409 U. S.

ment in Nebraska and such judgment shall be accorded full force and effect in Iowa."
4. Under Section 2 of the Compact, each state "cedes"
to the other state "and relinquishes jurisdiction over"
all such lands then located within the compact boundary
of the other.
The word "cedes" in Section 2 was meant by the
states to describe all areas formed before July 12, 1943,
regardless of their location with reference to the original boundary, whose "titles, mortgages and other liens"
were, at the date of the Compact, "good in" the ceding
state. Under Section 3, the state is bound to recognize
such "titles, mortgages and other liens" to be "good in"
its state, and not to claim ownership in itself.
5. Sections 2 and and 3 are not to be construed as
relating only to areas formed before July 12, 1943, that
can be proved by clear, satisfactory, and convincing evidence to have been on the Nebraska side of the original
boundary before the Compact fixed the permanent
boundary. Such a construction would require the
claimant who proves title "good in Nebraska" also to
shoulder the burden of proving the location of the
original boundary before 1943, as well as proving that
the lands were on the Nebraska side of that boundary
which would be placing a burden upon the land owner
which the states themselves refused to undertake in 1943
and agreed would not be necessary.
6. The State of Iowa does not own Nottleman
Island and Schemmel Island. The proofs sufficed to
establish title "good in Nebraska" to Nottleman Island
which was the land involved in the case of State of Iowa,
Plaintiff, v. Darwin Merritt Babbitt, et al., Equity No.
17433 in the District Court for Mills County, Iowa, and
to Schemmel Island which was the land involved in the
case of State of Iowa, Plaintiff, v. Henry E. Schemmel,
et al., Defendants, Equity No. 19765 filed in the District

NEBRASKA v. IOWA
285

Per Curiam

Court of Fremont County, Iowa, on March 26, 1963, and
that Nottleman Island and Schemmel Island formed
before July 12, 1943.
7. Under Section 3 of the Compact, titles "good in
Nebraska" include private titles to riparian lands that
under Nebraska law, differing from Iowa law, run to
the thread of the contiguous stream.
8. Titles "good in Nebraska" are found to include
and embrace titles obtained by ten years' open, notorious
and adverse possession under claim of right without any
requirement of a record title or of "color of title."
9. As to areas formed before July 12, 1943, Sections 2 and 3 of the Compact limit the State of Iowa to
contesting with private litigants in State or Federal
Courts the question whether the private claimants can
prove title "good in Nebraska" and when private litigants prove such title, Iowa cannot interpose Iowa's
doctrine of state ownership as defeating such title.
10. In the presently pending cases of State of Iowa,
Plaintiff v. Darwin Merritt Babbitt, et al., Equity
No. 17433, (District Court of Mills County, Iowa), and
State of Iowa, Plaintiff v. Henry E. Schemmel, et al.,
Equity No. 19765, (District Court of Fremont County,
Iowa), it having been proved that there are titles "good
in Nebraska" as to those islands, there is no reason for
an injunction against Iowa, its officers, agents and servants, at this stage, unless it be shown that the State of
Iowa will not abide by this determination of the issues
as embodied in our opinion of April 24, 1972.
11. Generally, ownership of the twenty-one areas and
part of the twenty-second area north of Omaha-claimed
by Iowa to be state owned by Iowa because allegedly
formed wholly on the Iowa side of the Compact boundary
after the Compact date-shall be determined by the law
of the state in which they are found to have formed, the
Compact boundary being the line which shall determine

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Per Curiam

409 U. S.

in which state they formed. Claimants of title to these
areas as against Iowa may have the opportunity to show
title "good in Nebraska" on the Compact date.
12. Although under the Nebraska law of accretion private titles to riparian lands run to the thread of the
contiguous stream, whether a Nebraska riparian owner
has title to the accretions that cross the boundary into
Iowa is determined by Iowa law.
13. The counterclaim of Iowa is dismissed.
14. The parties having paid their own costs and having contributed equally to a fund for expenses of the
Special Master, any amounts remaining in said fund
after deduction of all expenses by the Special Master
shall be divided equally and returned to each state by
the Special Master.
It is so ordered.

