RUSSO v. BYRNE
Opinion in Chambers

RUSSO

ET AL.

V. BYRNE, U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-150. Decided July 29, 1972
The District Court in an in camera proceeding ruled that intercepted conversations of applicants' counsel were not relevant to
issues in their federal criminal trial, and the Court of Appeals in
affirming held that the applicants had no standing to raise the
question of relevancy. Held: The issue of relevancy, the resolution of which determined the issue of standing, required an
adversary hearing, and a stay of the criminal trial is appropriate
pending the filing of a petition for a writ of certiorari in this
Court and the Court's action thereon.

Circuit Justice.
The question raised by this application for stay presents a profoundly important constitutional question not
squarely decided by the Supreme Court but ruled upon
by the District Court and by the Court of Appeals in
a way that is seemingly out of harmony with the import
of our decisions.
The electronic surveillance used by the Government
was represented to me on oral argument as being in the
"foreign" field. No warrant, as required by the Fourth
Amendment and by our decisions, was obtained, only
the authorization by the Attorney General. Such authorization was held insufficient in our recent decision
in United States v. United States District Court, 407
U. S. 297 (1972). It is argued that that case involved
"domestic" surveillance, but the Fourth Amendment and
our prior decisions, to date at least, draw no distinction
between "foreign" and "domestic" surveillance. Whether
such a distinction will eventually be made is for the Court,
not for me, to make. Moreover, in light of the casual
way in which "foreign" as distinguished from "domestic"
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

1220

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

surveillance was used on oral argument it may be that
we are dealing only with a question of semantics. Defendants' telephonic communications, it seems, were not
tapped, nor were those of their attorney or consultants.
But a conversation or several conversations of counsel
for defendants were intercepted.
The District Court in an in camera proceeding ruled
that those conversations were not relevant to any issues
in the present trial. The Court of Appeals, as I read
its opinion, ruled that the defendants-i. e., applicants
who make this application-have no "standing" to raise
the question. If, however, the interceptions were "relevant" to the trial, it would seem they would have
"standing."
Therefore it would seem to follow from the reasoning
of the Court of Appeals that whether or not there was
"standing" would turn on the merits. The case, viewed
in that posture, would seem to require an adversary hearing on the issue of relevancy. We held, in Alderman v.
United States, 394 U. S. 165, 182 (1969), that the issue
of relevancy should not be resolved in camera, but in an
adversary proceeding. Alderman would be greatly undercut if the issue of relevancy could be resolved in camera,
and if the trial court ruled against the defendants on the
merits and then determined they had no "standing" to
complain.
I seriously doubt if the ruling of the Court of Appeals
on "standing" accurately states the law. In modern
times the "standing" of persons or parties to raise issues
has been greatly liberalized. Our Court has not squarely
ruled on the precise issue here involved. But it did rule
in Flast v. Cohen, 392 U. S. 83, 103 (1968), that one who
complains of a violation of a First Amendment right has
"standing." On oral argument Flast was distinguished
from the present case on the ground that under the Fourth
Amendment only those whose premises have been in-

RUSSO v. BYRNE
1219

Opinion in Chambers

vaded or whose conversations have been intercepted have
standing to complain of unconstitutional searches and
seizures. That contention, however, does not dispose of
this case.
The constitutional right earnestly pressed here is the
right to counsel guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment.
That guarantee obviously involves the right to keep the
confidences of the client from the ear of the Government,
which these days seeks to learn more and more of the
affairs of men. The constitutional right of the client, of
course, extends only to his case, not to the other concerns
of his attorney. But unless he can be granted "standing"
to determine whether his confidences have been disclosed
to the powerful electronic ear of the Government, the
constitutional fences protective of privacy are broken
down.
My authority is to grant or deny a stay, not to determine whether the Court of Appeals is right or wrong on
the merits. If the application presents frivolous questions it should be denied. If it tenders a ruling out of
harmony with our prior decisions, or questions of transcending public importance, or issues which would likely
induce this Court to grant certiorari, the stay should be
granted.
I am exceedingly reluctant to grant a stay where the
case in a federal court is barely under way. But conscientious regard for basic constitutional rights guaranteed by
the Fourth and Sixth Amendments makes it my duty
to do so. I, therefore, order that the trial be stayed for
30 days pending application to this Court for a writ
of certiorari and thereafter stayed pending the determination of the petition.
If the law under which we live and which controls
every federal trial in the land is the Constitution and the
Bill of Rights, the prosecution, as well as the accused,
must submit to that law.

