FARR v. PITCHESS

1243

Opinion in Chambers

FARR v. PITCHESS, SHERIFF OF LOS ANGELES
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
ON APPLICATION FOR RELEASE ON OWN RECOGNIZANCE OR
BAIL PENDING APPEAL IN UNITED STATES COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

No. A-705.

Decided January 11, 1973

Commitment for civil contempt of applicant, a reporter who, despite
an order of trial judge barring litigants or their attorneys from
giving certain information to the press, published news story based
on information obtained from attorneys and one other person and
who refused post-trial disclosure to trial judge of informants'
names, involves substantial issues not settled by Branzburg v.
Hayes, 408 U. S. 665, or otherwise, and applicant's release pending Court of Appeals' decision of applicant's habeas corpus petition
is therefore warranted.
See: 22 Cal. App. 3d 60, 99 Cal. Rptr. 342.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant Farr was a reporter for the Los Angeles
Herald Examiner and published stories about the Manson
trial, which were greatly publicized during the trial. The
trial judge in the case had issued orders barring the litigants and their lawyers from giving certain information
to the press. When the Manson trial was ended, the
trial judge summoned Farr and asked him what the
sources of his information were. Farr acknowledged that
he had received the news story from two of the six attorneys of record in the Manson case and some of it from
another individual who was subject to the order concerning publicity but who was not an attorney. Farr
refused to disclose the names and was committed to
prison for civil contempt. He obtained no relief in the

1244

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

state courts1 and then brought federal habeas corpus

which the District Court denied and, pending his appeal
to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, he has applied to me for bail or release on personal recognizance.
Like the three cases decided in Branzburg v. Hayes,
408 U. S. 665, the present case involves civil, not criminal,
contempt. Branzburg, however, involved refusal of a
reporter to testify before a grand jury and reveal the
sources of his news stories. The federal rule is that just
as the power of Congress to commit a recalcitrant witness for civil contempt ends with the adjournment of that
Congress, Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 231, so does
the power of the grand jury end when the grand jury's
term expires. Shillitani v. United States, 384 U. S. 364,
370-372.
What rule obtains in California is not clear; but it is
intimated that theoretically at least imprisonment for
civil contempt could be for life.
The commitment is defended on the ground that the
trial court, armed with power to keep the trial free from
prejudicial publicity, Sheppard v. Maxwell, 384 U. S.
333, has authority to discipline those who violated its
order barring release of publicity. The necessity to
make Farr talk was therefore held to be compelling.
California has a statute protecting a newsman from
disclosing his sources of news and barring a court from
holding him in contempt for refusal to disclose. The
1 The

opinion of the California Court of Appeal, Second Appellate
District, is reported in 22 Cal. App. 3d 60, 99 Cal. Rptr. 342. The
Supreme Court of California denied a hearing on March 27, 1972.
This Court denied certiorari on November 13, 1972. Ante, p. 1011.
2 Calif. Evid. Code ยง 1070 (Supp. 1972) provides:
"A publisher, editor, reporter, or other person connected with or
employed upon a newspaper, or by a press association or wire service, or any person who has been so connected or employed, cannot
be adjudged in contempt by a court, the Legislature, or any ad-

FARR v. PITCHESS
1243

Opinion in Chambers

Court of Appeal noted that while Farr had been a newsman at the time he wrote the story, he had left that
employment when he was questioned by the trial judges.
The Court of Appeal assertedly did not reach the issue
as to whether Farr was covered by the section, holding
instead that to construe the statute as granting immunity
to Farr, in the face of the facts "would be to countenance
an unconstitutional interference by the legislative branch
with an inherent and vital power of the court to control
its own proceedings."
It is argued, in return, that the remedy of criminal
contempt against those subject to the trial court's publicity order is now out of reach because of the running
of the statute of limitations on criminal contempt I and
therefore that the present civil contempt proceedings
against Farr serve no legitimate state interest. I have
received a response from respondent which says that this
is "purely a matter of state concern"-that "there is no
statute of limitations" in California for civil contempts.
Whether this means that Farr could be imprisoned for
life is not clear.
What the merits of the case may be is not in my
province at this stage. The only question is whether
the issue presented is a substantial one. Our Branzburg
ministrative body, for refusing to disclose the source of any information procured while so connected or employed for publication in a
newspaper.
"Nor can a radio or television news reporter or other person connected with or employed by a radio or television station, or any
person who has been so connected or employed, be so adjudged in
contempt for refusing to disclose the source of any information
procured while so connected or employed for news or news commentary purposes on radio or television."
3Calif. Penal Code ยง 166 provides that willful disobedience of a
lawfully issued court order is a misdemeanor. Calif. Penal Code
ยง 801 provides a one-year period of limitation from the commission of
the crime to the filing of the indictment, information, or complaint.

1246

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

decision plainly does not cover it. Our denial of certiorari imparts no implication or inference concerning
the Court's view of the merits, as Mr. Justice Frankfurter made clear in Maryland v. Baltimore Radio Show,
338 U. S. 912, 919.
The question, so far as I can tell, is not covered by
any of our prior decisions. The case is a recurring one
where the interests of a fair trial sometimes collide with
the requirements of a free press. A fair trial requires
that a jury be insulated from the barrage of prejudicial
news stories that is sometimes laid down on the courtroom. It is said that in the present case the Manson
jury was sequestered and so not subject to the kind of
influence we condemned in Sheppard v. Maxwell.
The issue is not free from doubt. Yet since the precise question is a new one not covered by our prior
decisions, I have concluded in the interest of justice to
release Farr on his personal recognizance pending decision of his habeas corpus case by the Court of Appeals.

