1222

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

REPUBLICAN STATE CENTRAL COMMITTEE
OF ARIZONA ET AL. v. THE RIPON
SOCIETY INC. ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-179.

Decided August 16, 1972

District Court's injunction prohibiting the 1972 Republican National Convention from allocating six "bonus" delegates to its

1976 convention to each State casting its electoral votes for the
Republican presidential nominee in 1972, or electing a Republican
senator, governor, or majority of its congressional delegation at
any election within four years previous to 1976 stayed in light
of criteria set forth in O'Brien v. Brown, ante, p. 1, and to
preserve the issues for judicial review.
See: 343 F. Supp. 168.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.
I am asked to stay the effect of an injunction entered
by the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia, which prohibited the Republican National
Party's 1972 Convention from adopting a certain mode
of allocating delegates to that party's convention in
1976. On August 11, 1972, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS denied
a stay, and that application has been renewed to me.
Since 1948 the Republican National Party has
adopted at each presidential nominating convention a
formula for allocating among the States delegates to the
next convention. This formula has included a "bonus"
of six delegates awarded to each State that cast its electoral college votes for the Republican presidential nominee in the previous presidential election, or has elected
a Republican senator, governor, or majority of its
congressional delegation at any election within the
previous four years. Respondents filed suit in the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, asking for a declaratory judgment that such a

REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE v. RIPON SOCIETY
1222

1223

Opinion in Chambers

"bonus" system of allocating delegates was unconstitutional, and asking that the Republican National Party
be enjoined from adopting such a formula at its 1972
nominating convention. The District Court, in reliance
upon Georgia v. National Democratic Party, 145 U. S.

App. D. C. 102, 447 F. 2d 1271 (1971), cert. denied, 404
U. S. 858 (1971), and Bode v. National Democratic

Party, 146 U. S. App. D. C. 373, 452 F. 2d 1302 (1971),
cert. denied, 404 U. S. 1019 (1972), held that allocation
of delegates was state action, and that the complaint
before it was justiciable. Agreeing with the Republican
National Party that, for a system that elects Presidents
by casting a State's electoral votes in a bloc, a bonus
system of delegate allocation is reasonable to encourage
Republican victories within each State, the District Court
nonetheless held the allocation of six delegates without
regard to the size of the State or its electoral college
votes, to be a denial of equal protection. It therefore
entered the following injunction:
"That Defendants are hereby enjoined from adopting at the 1972 Republican National Convention a
formula for apportionment of delegates to the 1976
Convention which would allocate a uniform number of bonus delegates to states qualifying for them,
with no relation to the state's electoral college votes,
Republican votes cast in certain specified elections,
or some combination of these factors."
After an appeal was perfected these applicants moved
the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit for leave to intervene and for a stay
of the District Court's injunction. Intervention was
granted, but a divided panel of the District of Columbia
Circuit, on August 3, denied a stay without opinion.
Respondents do not now challenge the right of the
applicants, state central committees of the Republican
National Party, to seek a stay from this Court. With the

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

Republican National Convention scheduled to commence
August 21, prompt action is requested on the ground
that an unreviewed court injunction threatens direct
intervention with the conduct of the convention, in a
manner similar to that confronting this Court in O'Brien
v. Brown, ante, p. 1.
As we said in O'Brien, supra, an application for a stay
calls "for a weighing of three basic factors: (a) whether
irreparable injury may occur absent a stay; (b) the
probability that the [District Court] was in error in holding that the merits of these controversies were appropriate for decision by federal courts; and (c) the public
interests that may be affected by the operation of the
[injunction]." Applicants contend that to leave the injunction in effect will work irreparable injury because the
Republican National Party has always allocated delegates
to its next convention at the current convention, and has
no machinery for amending that formula. Therefore,
they say, the injunction will permanently preclude the
adoption of a "bonus" formula, regardless of whether the
District Court is reversed. Respondents allege that no
irreparable injury will occur, because the convention can
either provide amendatory procedures for use in the
event that the bonus formula is not vindicated on appeal,
or it can adopt a contingent delegate allocation plan,
to take into account the pending federal court proceedings. But to allow the injunction to stand would have
at least some impact on the deliberations and decisions of
the Republican National Convention akin if not identical to that we found in O'Brien, supra:
"Absent a stay, the mandate of the Court of Appeals denies to the Democratic National Convention
its traditional power to pass on the credentials of the
California delegates in question. The grant of a
stay, on the other hand, will not foreclose the Con-

REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE v. RIPON SOCIETY
1222

1225

Opinion in Chambers

vention's giving the respective litigants in both
cases the relief they sought in federal courts."
Id., at 3.
In the case at bar, of course, we deal with a delegateallocation dispute that retains importance until 1976,
rather than a credentials dispute such as was involved
in O'Brien v. Brown, which would mean nothing after
the close of the 1972 Democratic National Convention.
If the injunction of the District Court were to
compel the 1972 Republican National Convention to
eschew a bonus-allocation formula which it would
otherwise have chosen, this case would be moot.
There would be no controversy left to review. On
the other hand, to stay the injunction pending review
will permit the respondents to make their case before the convention, and assuming the bonus formula is
adopted, will preserve to applicants judicial review of
the District Court's order declaring the bonus formula
unconstitutional. If that order should be affirmed, I
have no doubt that appropriate remedies are available
to insure that the Republican National Party delegate
allocation is in conformity with the order, or that the
party would take whatever steps are necessary to bring
its allocation formula into conformity with the order.
The fact that a stay here, instead of precluding any judicial review of the final action of the Republican National Convention, as could have been the result of the
action taken in O'Brien, supra, preserves these issues for
review in a manner conducive to careful study and consideration is itself a reason to stay the injunction which
was not present in O'Brien.
A second reason for staying the effect of the District
Court's injunction is drawn from the probability of error
in the result below. The District Court did not have
the benefit of this Court's writing in O'Brien, supra, at

1226

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion in Chambers

409 U. S.

the time it entered its order and injunction There we
said:
"No case is cited to us in which any federal court
has undertaken to interject itself into the deliberative processes of a national political convention;
no holding of this Court up to now gives support
for judicial intervention in the circumstances presented here, involving as they do, relationships of
great delicacy that are essentially political in nature.
Cf. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1 (1849). Judicial
intervention in this area traditionally has been
approached with great caution and restraint. See
Irish v. Democratic-Farmer-LaborParty of Minnesota, 399 F. 2d 119 (CA8 1968), affirming 287 F.
Supp. 794 (Minn. 1968), and cases cited; Lynch v.
Torquato, 343 F. 2d 370 (CA3 1965); Smith v. State
Exec. Comm. of Dem. Party of Ga., 288 F. Supp. 371
(ND Ga. 1968). Cf. Ray v. Blair, 343 U. S. 214
(1952). It has been understood since our national
political parties first came into being as voluntary
associations of individuals that the convention itself
is the proper forum for determining intra-party disputes as to which delegates shall be seated. Thus,
these cases involve claims of the power of the federal judiciary to review actions heretofore thought
to lie in the control of political parties. Highly
important questions are presented concerning justiciability, whether the action of the Credentials
Committee is state action, and if so the reach of the
Due Process Clause in this unique context. Vital
rights of association guaranteed by the Constitution are also involved. While the Court is unwilling
to undertake final resolution of the important constitutional questions presented without full briefing
and argument and adequate opportunity for de-

REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE v. RIPON SOCIETY
1222

1227

Opinion in Chambers

liberation, we entertain grave doubts as to the action
taken by the Court of Appeals." Id., at 4-5.
While I have authority to grant a stay in this case, 28
U. S. C. ยง 1651 (a), Johnson v. Stevenson, 335 U. S. 801
(1948), the fact that such relief has been successively
denied by the District Court, the Court of Appeals, and
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS counsels circumspection notwithstanding the foregoing observations. See, e. g., Ex parte
Stickney, 82 S.Ct. 465, 7 L. Ed. 2d 435 (1962) (DOUGLAS,
J., in chambers). Weighing these competing and frequently imponderable factors as best I can, I have concluded that this case follows so closely on the heels of
O'Brien and resembles it in so many relevant particulars
that the injunctive aspect of the District Court order
should be stayed. Accordingly, I have this day entered
an order staying that portion of the order of the District
Court that enjoins the 1972 Republican National Convention from adopting this "bonus" formula for allocating delegates to the 1976 convention.

