OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

We need not add much to this language. The contention
of the petitioner would make the punishment depend upon the
manner of pleading, and, may be, upon the discretion of prosecuting officers rather than upon the violation of the law. And
to what end? In mitigation of ultimate punishment? But
that function is confided to the court. To it is confided the
power to adapt the punishment to the degree of crime. It
may sentence the full penalty upon one offence. It may,
though it is not required, to do more upon three offences, and
in a single sentence of one day, or of eighteen months, or three
times eighteen months, it may express its views of the criminality of a defendant, and, to use the language of the statute,
"proportion the punishment especially to the degree in which
the abuse of the post office establishment" enters as an instrument "in the defendant's fraudulent scheme and device."
The 9-ule is discharged.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. TOURVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOU.RL
No 36.

Submitted October 9, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1900.

The Wabash Railroad Company was a consolidated railroad corporation,
separately organized under the laws of Illinois and the laws of Missouri.
It became indebted to Tourville, who was in its employ, for a small sum
for which he sued it before a justice of the peace of St. Louis. The complicated proceedings which followed are fully set forth in the opinion
of this court. The judgment of the trial court being set aside by the
Circuit Court, this court holds that the judgment of the Circuit Court
was undoubtedly final; that it completed the litigation; and that it left
nothing to the lower court but to enter the judgment which it directed.
The holding by the Supreme Court of Illinois that the judgment was foreign to that State, and therefore not subject to garnIshment there, is sustained by the weight of authority.

THE ca$e is stated in the opinion of the court.

WABASH RAILROAD CO. v. TOURVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

.A. TFell IT Blodgett and M'. George S. Grover for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. Virgil Rule and X. John D. Johnson for defendant in
error.
MR. JUsTIoE M OENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.,

The plaintiff in error is a consolidated railway corporation,
separately organized under the laws of Illinois and Missouri.
It was indebted to the defendant in error, whom we shall designate by his name,. Tourville, for work and labor performed
in St. Louis, Missouri, in the sum of $81.98. Tourville was indebted on a promissory note for $132 to one Flannigan, who
lived in East St. Louis, State of Illinois.
On the 10th of June, 1891, Tourville commenced an action
before a justice of the peace of the city of St. Louis, against the
plaintiff in error for his wages, and obtained a judgment by default for the sum of $75 on the 22d of June, 1891. From this
judgment the plaintiff in error appealed to the Circuit Court of
the city of St. Louis.
Prior to the suit by Tourville against plaintiff in error, to
wit, on the 3d of June, 1891, Flannigan commenced suit against
him before a justice of the peace of East St. Louis, Illinois, 'and
caused the plaintiff in error to be summoned as garnishee.
Tourville was not personally served, but plaintiff in error orally
.notified him and his attorney in time for him to make defence
to the suit. He did not appear, and judgment was entered
against him by default on July "13,1891, for $132.
The plaintiff in error appeared in the action brought by
Flannigan, and admitted indebtedness to Tourville in the sum
of $71.83, and pleaded and claimed for him the exemption allowed by the laws of Illinois and Missouri; and also pleaded
and proved that Touirville had recovered a judgment against
plaintiff in error for his wages in the courts of Missouri, and
that such wages were earned in Missouri under a contract made
there, and were payable in the city of St. Louis, "and nowhere
else," and were exempt from attachment by laws of that State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

because Tourville was the head of a family, residing with the
same in the State, and had no propierty except his wearing apparel.
The Illinois exemption was allowed, which amounted to $50,
but. the Missouri exemption was disallowed, and judgment was
rendered against plaintiff in error on the 25th of July, 1891, for
the sum of $21.83. The company appealed to the City Court
of East St. Louis.
On the 21st of December, 1891, the case came on for trial in
the City Court of East St. Louis. "Tourville did not appear.
The plaintiff in error appeared and demanded a jury. The attachment was sustained, and a verdict found against Tourville
for the sum of $132, and against the company as garnishee in
favor of Tourville for the use of Flannigan for $21.83 and costsamounting in all to $43.38. Execution was issued, and the company paid the judgment against it as garnishee.
On the trial of the action of Tourville against the company
in the Circuit Court of St. Louis the facts stated above were
stipulated, and the case submitted to the circuit judge, sitting
as a jury, and judgment was rendered in favor of Tourville as
follows:
Whole amount of wages ....................... $81 98
Less judgment and costs paid by defendant in
East St. Louis .............................. 43 38
Judgment against defendant ................ $38 60
The plaintiff Tourville took an appeal to the St. Louis Court.
of Appeals which reversed the judgment, holding that the proceedings in garnishment, were void, on the ground that the justice's court of East St. Louis had no jurisdiction, because there
was no personal service on Tourville, and the directions of the
statute for substituted service had pot been observed, and because plaintiff in error had failed to make this defence, although
it appeared by the papers on file in the justice's office.
The opinion concluded as follows: "It results from the foregoing that the court erred in holding that the defendant company was entitled to credit for the amount paid by it in the
garnishment proceedings. The judgment is reversed and the

WABASH RAILROAD CO. v. TOU-RVILLB.
Opinion of the Court.

cause remanded, with directions to the trial court to enter judgment for laintiff for eighty-one dollars, the. amount sued for
and admittedly due if we disregard the garnishment proceedings." 61 Mo. App. 527.
The mandate was issued, and the court ordered "to enter
judgment for plaintiff for eighty-one dollars, the amount sued
for."
On the 21st of April, 1895, and before the mandate reached
the Circuit' Court, Flannigan instituted another suit by attachment against Tourville before a justice of the peace in East
St. Louis, and the defendant in error was again summoned in
garnishment.
On the return of the mandate to the Missouri Court of Appeals of. the Circuit Court of St. Louis the proceedings in said
suit and garnishment were offered in evidence, but ruled out,
and the company excepted.
Judgment was then enteted in favor of Tourville for $81 in
pursuance of the mandate. The company again excepted, and
moved to set the judgment aside, and for a new trial, on the
ground that by entering said judgment and rejecting said evidence the court refused to give full faith and credit to proceedings
against the defendant in a sister State, in violation of section 1,
article 4 of the Constitution of the -United States. The motion
was overruled, and the defendant excepted. Subsequently a
motion was made to modify the judgment, and in support
thereof the proceedings in garnishment were again offered, and
again ruled out. Execution was issued on the judgment.
On the 12th of October, 1895, a motion was made to quash
the execution, based on the same grounds as former motions,
which was also denied. The company then appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State. That court sustained the rulings
of the lower court and affirmed its judgment. 148 No. 614.
The Supreme Court said:
UThe Circuit Court committed no error in rejecting the evidence of the proceedings in the second attachment suit in Illinois in rendering judgment for the plaintift or in refusing to
modify that judgment. It is true if the judgment of the Circuit
Court had been simply reversed and the cause remanded the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

case would have stood as though no judgment had ever been
rendered, and the parties would have been entitled 'to proceed in the court below to obtain a final determination of their
rights in the same manner and to the same extent as if the
cause had never been decided by any court.' Crispen v. Hannoran, 86 31o. loc. cit. But such was not the case. The cause
was remanded to the Circuit Court with directions 'to enter
judgment for the plaintiff for $81,' and the Circuit Court hadno
judicial discretion in the matter. It had no power to enter any
other judgment or to consider or determine other matters not
included in the duty of entering the judgment as directed. State
ex rel. v. Edwards, 144 Mo. 467; Rees v. )i-oDaniel, 131 Mo.
681; Young v. TDraslier, 123 MNo. 308; Stump v. fornbak,
109 Mo. 272; Chouteau v. Allen,' 74 Mo. 56.
"3. The court committed no error in issuing execution on
the judgment, nor in overruling defendant's motion to quash
the same. The judgment of the St. Louis Court of Appeals
rendered on the 26th of March, 1895, was a final judgment in
the cause. Young v. Thrasher,123 Mo. 308; 1 Black on Judgments, sec. 34, p. 36, and cases, note 64; .0fower v. Fletcher,114
U. S. 127; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167.
"The entry of that judgment in the Circuit Court was a
purely ministerial act, carrying into execution the judgment of
the appellate court of the date and effect as rendered by that
court. One of the effects of that judgment was to merge the
cause of action, the debt sued for, in the judgment. I It was
drowned in the judgment.' It thereby ' lost its vitality,' and
'all its power to sustain rights and enforce liabilities terminated
in the judgment.' Cooksey v. Kansas City &c. Railroad,74
Mo. 477; 1 Freeman on Judgments, ยง 215; 2 Black on Judgments, ยง 674. On the 26th of Mrarch, 1895, the old debt of
the company to the plaintiff ceased to exist, and thereafter
could not sustain any liability imposed thereon by the subsequent garnishment proceedings under the second attachment
suit in Illinois. 15 Am. & Eng. Encycl. p. 341."
To the judgment of the Supreme Court this writ of error was
sued out.
It is contended that full faith and credit were not given to

WABASH RAILROAD CO. v. TOURVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

the proceedings in garnishment, and in support of it counsel has
ably and fully discussed the law and effect of garnishment. We
do not think it necessary to enter into that discussion as fully
as counsel have. The judgment'of the Court of Appeals was
undoubtedly final. It completed the litigation, and left nothing
to the lower court but to enter judgment for Tourville for $81.
The lower court had no option or jurisdiction to do anything
else. The rule precludes in that State the adjudication of rights
occurring subsequently to the rendition of the original judgment. Young v. Thk'a81ur, 123 No. 308.
This disposes of the various motions of defendant in -error
preceding the entry of the judgment on the mandate, and the
motions to set aside the same and to grant a new trial. Is the
motion to quash the execution entitled to different consideration? It is not clear from the opinion of the Supreme Court
whether the lower court under the local procedure had as little
power over the execution on the judgment as it had over the
judgment entered on the mandate of the Court of Appeals. The
Supreme Court, however, did hold that the judgment was foreign
to Illinois, and therefore not subject to garnishment there. In
this the court is sustained by the weight of authority. Drake
on Attachments, sec. 625, and cases compiled in 14 Am. & Eng.
Enc. of Law, 775, 776.
This court has held that to the validity of a plea of attachment the attachment must have preceded the commencement
of the suit in which the plea is made. , Wallace v. -3tcConnel,13
Pet. 136.
JTudgment affirmed.
MR.

JusTiCE

BRnwm dissented.

