OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

Opinion of the Court.

SAXLEHNER v. SIEGEL-COOPER COMPANY.
SAXLEHNER v. GIES.

SAXLEHNER va.MARQUET.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
HoS. 30,31,32.

Argued Mlarch 22, 23, 1900.-Decided October 15,1900.

These cases were argued with No. 29, ante, 40. The answer in them was
substantially the same as in that case, anti the same record of proofs was
used. Held that an injunction should issue against all the defendants,
but as the Siegel-Cooper Company acted in good faith it should not be
required to account for gains and profits.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Counsel were the same as in No. 29.
Mm.

JUSTICE BROWw delivered the opinion of the court.

These three cases were brought against retail dealers, and
defended by the Eisner and Mendelson Company, who imported
and furnished the defendants with the water sold by them.
The bills charged the defendants generally with unlawfully selling bitter water under labels simulating Saxlehner's blue and
red label, and under the name "Hunyadi."
The answer was
substantially the same as that in the main case, and the same
record of proofs was used.
In the case against the Siegel-Cooper Company there was no
charge of an intentional fraud, and the court found there was
no evidence of fraudulent conduct on its part, and dismissed the
bill as to that company. As to the other two cases the court
found that 'the clerks in charge of their stores, in response to
special requests for Janos water, wrapped up and delivered
Matyas water purchased of the Eisner and Mendelson Company.
In other words that they had palmed off the one for the other.
We think that an injunction should issue against all these
defendants, but that, as the Siegel-Cooper Company appears to

SAXLEHNER v. NIELSEN.
Statement of the Case.

have acted in good faith, and the sales of the others were small,
they should not be required to account for gains and profits.
The fact that the Siegel-Cooper Company acted innocently does
not exonerate it from the charge of infringement. Xoet v.
Couston, 33 Beav. 578;
Zilington v. Fox, 3 Myl. & Cr. 338;
deldten v. Edelsten, 1 De Gex, J.'& S. 185; Brown on Trade
Marks, ยง 386.
The decree of the Circuit Court of A4peals in these cases are
also reversed, and the cases remanded to the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of -New York for furtherproceedings, etc.

SAXLEHINER v. NIELSEN7.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 33. Argued and submitted lIarch 22, 23, 1900.- Decided October 15, 1900.
Defendant was prosecuted for selling bitter waters under the name of "Hunyadi Lajos."1 Held, That although the proof of laches on the part of
plaintiff was notas complete as in the former case the same result must
follow, and that the bill must be dismissed as to the word "Hunyadi"
and sustained as to the infringement of the bottles and labels.

THIS was a bill of similar character to those involved in the
prior cases, and was brought to enjoin the defendant from selling water under the name of "l I unyadi Lajos," or any other
name in which the word "Hunyadi" occurs, as well as selling
such water in bottles or under capsules or labels resembling
those of the plaintiff upon her bottles of "Hunyadi Janos"
water. The answer pleaded abandonment and laches. The
Circuit Court made a similar decree to that in the Eisner and
Mendelson suit, enjoining the infringement of plaintiff's red and
blue label, requiring an accounting for damages, and denying
relief against the use of the name "Hunyadi." The Circuit

