OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

LOOKER v. MAYNARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 4. Submitted December 2, 1898. Decided October 15, 1900.

A power reserved by the constitution of a state to its legislature, to alter,
amend or repeal future acts of incorporation, authorizes the legislature,
in order "to secure the minority of stockholders, in corporations organized under general laws, the power of electing a representative membership in boards of directors," to permit each stockholder to cumulate his
votes upon any one or more candidates for directors.

Tins was an information in the nature of a ytto ,warranto,
filed August 1, 1896, in the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan, by Fred A. Maynard, Attorney General of the State, at
the relation of Joseph W. Dusenbury and Will J. Dusenburv,
against Oscar R. .Looker, Charles A. Kent, Will S. Green, William A. Moore, Louis H. Chamberlain, William C. Colburn,
Benjamin J. Conrad, John J. Mooney and Michael J. Mooney,
to try the rights of the defendants and of the relators respectively to the offices of members of the board of directors of the
Michigan Mutual Life Insurance Company. The right to those
offices was claimed by the defendants under the original articles of association of the company under the general laws of
Michigan; and by the relators under a statute subsequently
enacted by the legislature of the State, which the defendants
contended to be unconstitutionaland void as impairing the obligation of the contract made between the State and the corporation by its original organization.
The Constitution of Michigan, adopted in 1850, art. 15, sec. 1,
is as follows: "Corporations may be formed under general laws,
but shall not be created by special act, except for municipal
purposes. All laws passed pursuant to this sedtion may be
amended, altered or repealed." 1 Charters and Constitutions,
1008.
The general law of Michigan of March 30, 1869, entitled

LOOKER v. MAYNARD.
Statement of the Case.

"An act. in relation to life insurance companies transacting

business within this State," contained the following provisions:
By § 1, "1Any number of persons not less than thirteen may
associate together and form an incorporated company for the
purpose of making insurance upon the lives of individuals, and
every insurance pertaining thereto, and to grant, purchase and
dispose of annuities."
By § 2, "1The persons so associating shall subscribe articles of
association, which shall contain" -" 4. The manner in which
the corporate powers are to be exercised, the number of directors and other officers, and the manner of electing the same,
and how mahy of the directors shall donstitute a quorum, and
the manner of filling all vacancies." "7. Any terms and conditions of membership therein, which the corporators may have
agreed upon, and which they may deem important to have set
forth in such articles."
By § 5, "The articles of association shall be submitted to
the attorney general for his examination, and if found by him.
to be in compliance with this act, he shall so certify to the secretary of state." Stat. A889, c. 77; 1 Laws of Michigan of
1869, p. 124.
Under that statute, the Michigan -Mutual Life Insurance
Company was duly organized July 3, 1870, with articles of association, the fourth of which provided as follows:
"1The corporate powers of the company shall be exercised by
a board of directors, which shall consist of twenty-one membes,
which may be increased at the option of the board to not more
than forty. The first meeting for the election of directors shall
be called by the present officers, and held as soon as practicable after these articles shall take effect. No person shall be
eligible who is not owner of at least ten shares of the guarantee
capital of the company, and at least two thirds of the directors
shall be residents of the State of Michigan. The board,.at their
first meeting, shall divide themselves by lot into three equal
classes, as near as may be, whose terms of office shall expire at
the end of one, two and three years respectively, and thereafter
one third of the directors shall be chosen annually for the class
whose term then expires, who shall hold office for three years,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

or until their successors are elected; but the first board of directors, whose terms shall not have expired previous to the last
Tuesday in January, shall continue in office until the last Tuesday in January following. The election of directors shall be
had at the annual meeting of the company, which shall be held
on the last Tuesday in January at the office of the company in
Detroit. They shall be chosen by ballot, and a majority of all
the votes cast shall elect. Every shareholder shall be entitled
to one vote for directors for every share of guarantee capital
standing in his name on the books of the company and may
vote in person or by proxy. And every policy-holder insured
in this company for the period of his natural life in the sum of
not less than five thousand dollars shall also be entitled to one
vote in the annual election of directors, which vote must be
giten in person."
In 1885 the legislature of Michigan passed an act entitled
"An act to secure the minority of stockholders, in corporations
organized under general laws, the power of electing a representative membership in boards of directors," the first section of
which provided as follows: "In all elections for directors of
any corporation organized under any general law of this State,
other than municipal, every stockholder shall have the right to
vote, in person or by proxy, the number of shares of stock
owned by him for as many persons as there may be directors
to be elected; or to cumulate said shares, and give one candidate as many votes as will equal the number of directors multiplied by the number of shares of his stock; or to distribute
them on the same principles among as many candidates as he
shall think fit. All such corporations shall elect their directors
annually, and the entire number of directors shall be balloted
for at one and the same time, and not separately." Stat. 1885,
c. 112; Public Acts of 1885, p. 116.
Directors were elected in accordance with the articles of association until the annual meeting of January 28, 1896, when,
the whole number of directors being twenty-seven, of whom
nine were elected annually, the whole number of votes for directors was 4893; the nine defendants received 3655 votes each; and
Joseph W. Dusenbury, represeiiting in his own right or by proxy

LOOKER v. MAYNARD.
Axgument for Plaintiff in Error

1238 shares, undertook, under the statute of 1885, to multiply the number of his shares by nine, making the number.
11,142, and, dividing this number equally, cast 5571 votes for
himself and 5571 for Will J. Dusenbury; and, if his claim had
been allowed, they two, the relators in this case, would have
been elected directors. But his claim was rejected, his vote
was allowed on 1238 shares only, and the nine defendants were
declared elected, and assumed and since exercised the offices of
directors.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held the statute of 1885 to
be constitutional and valid, and adjudged that the relators were
elected directors, and should have been so declared. 111 M ichigan, 498. The defendants sued out this writ of error.
X'. 6. A. Kent for plaintiff in error.
I. The articles of association of the Michigan Company as
to the method of electing directors constituted a legal contract
betwden the original stockholders, binding on their successors,
protected by the Constitution of the United States against
state interference, except so far as the power to change the
contract has been reserved.
This law is unusual. Generally, the statute provides for the
government of corporations by mandatory provisions. Here,
the matter is designedly and explicitly left to the agreement
of the corporators, and this offer of the power of agreement is
made for the benefit of the corporators to induce them to engage in a proposed enterprise. Articles of association are generally contracts by the members. Cook on Stock and Stockholders, see. 492; Zabriskie v. Hackensack R. Ri. Co., 18 N. J.
Eq. 178 ; Shook v. Georgic nprovement Co., 83 Ga. 61 ; 1Morawetz on Corporations, sec. 43 and seq.
It is uniformly held, that where the charter of a company
provides a method of electing directors and there is no reservation of a power to change, the legislature has no power to
change such provisions in favor of minority* representation.
If this is true when the provision is embodied in a contract
with thie state, it must be more true when'the contract is beVOL. CLXXEX-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tween the corporators. Hays v. Commonwealth, 82 Penn. St.
518; Baker's Appeal, 107 Penn. St. 461; Xtissouri v. Greer,
78 Missouri, 188; Smith v. Atchison, Topeka &fSanta _j Railroad Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 272.
IL The power to change the method by which directors are
elected is not reserved in the statute. It is claimed under a
general provision in the State Constitution.
The repeal or amendment of the law would not affect the
contract between the corporators as to management of their
property. It would only take away their powers to continue
the business of insurance as a corporation. Unless forbidden
the stockholders could continue the business of life insurance
as a partnership. At any rate, they could wind up the business
in the name of the corporation, and the method of electing directors would continue as before. Bewick v. Alpena Harbor
Improvement Co., 39 Mich. 700.
Any amendment of the law like an amendment to any other
law would not affect lawful contracts eitered into before the
amendment. The amendment might forbid new corporations
to make agreements except in accordance with the minority
representation statute; but the power to amend does not cover
the power to change pre-existing contracts. The provision in
state constitutions authorizing the amendment or repeal of all
laws for the formation of corporations, is intended simply to
protect the public against corporation monopolies and corpora,
tion abuses. It is not designed to affect the contracts of the
corporators among themselves as to the control of their interests in the property.
III. I have found no cases in conflict with the view I seek to
maintain, though there may be some which appear to do so;
citing Sherman v. Smith, 1 Black, 587; In Pe Lee &SCo. Bank,
21 N. Y. 9; The Reciprocity Bank, 22 N. Y. 9; Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13
Wall. 190; Sp-ing Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S.
347; Greenwbod v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13.
IV. See also Orr v. Bracken County, 81 Eentucky, 593;
Zabrliskie v. Hackensack & HSew York Railroad Co., 18 N. J.
Eq. 178; Snook v. Georgia Improvement Co., 83 Georgia, 61;

LOOKER v. MAYNARD.
Opinion of the Court.

Fisher v. Patton,33 S. W. Rep. 451; -Detroitv. Detroitc Howell Plank Road Co., 43 Mich. 140; People v. O'Brien, 111
N. Y. 1; Hill v. Glasgow Rail-road Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 610;
Southern Pacific Railroad Co. v. Board of Railroad Commis8ioner of California,78 Fed. Rep. 236; Tomnlimon v. Je&sup,
15 Wall. 454; Slbields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319.
V. Another error alleged is that the judgment of the court
below deprives respondents and other stockholders of their
right to participate in the management of their property, according to their agreement, without due process of law, in violation of the fourteenth amendment. The subject of vested
rights in the control of property is so ably argued in three dissenting opinions in the Sinking -Fund Cases, that I need only
to refer to them, 99 U. S. 700, 731, and seq.
Though the majority of the court did not agree with the
dissenting judges in the decision of that case,yet the difference
was probably not in the principles advocated but in their application to the case then at bar.
No brief was filed for the defendants in error.
MR. JusricE

GRA.Y,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The single question in this case is whether a power, reserved by the constitution of a State to its legislature, to alter,
amend or repeal future acts of .incorporation, authorizes the
legislature, in order (as declared in the title of the statute of
Michigan now in question) "to secure the minority of stockholders, in corporations organized under general laws, the'power
of electing a representative membership in boards of directors,"
to permit each stockholder to cumulate his votes upon any
one or more candidates for directors.
By the decision in the leading case of Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, it was established that a charter
from the State to a private corporation created a contract,
within the meaning of the clause in the Constitution of the
United States forbidding any State to pass any law impairing

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.'

the obligation of contracts; and consequently that a statute of
the State of New Hampshire, increasing the number of the
trustees of Dartmouth College as fixed by its charter, and providing for the appointment of a majority of the trustees by the
executive government of New Hampshire, instead of by the
board of trustees as the charter provided, was unconstitutional
and void.
Mr. Justice Story, in his concurring opinion in that case, after
declaring that in his judgment it was "perfectly clear that any
act of a legislature which takes away any powers or franchises
vested by its charter in a private corporation, or its corporate
officers, or which restrains or controls the legitimate exercise of
them, or transfers them to other persons, without its assent, is
a violation of the obligations of that charter," took occasion to
add: "If the legislature mean to claim such an authority, it
must be reserved in the grant." 4 Wheat. 712.
After that decision, many a State of the Union, in order to
secure to its legislature the exercise of a fuller parliamentary or
legislative power over corporations than would otherwise exist, inserted, either in its statutes or in its constitution, a provision that charters thenceforth granted should be subject to
alteration, amendment or repeal at the pleasure of the legislature. See Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U.S. 13, 20, 21. The
effect of such a provision, whether contained in an original act
of incorporation, or in-a constitution or general law subject to
which a charter is accepted, is, at the least, to reserve to the
legislature the power to make any alteration or amendment of
a charter subject to it, which '&ill not defeat or substantially
impair the object of the grant, or any right vested under the
grant, and which the legislature may deem necessary to carry
into effect the purpose of the grant, or to protect the rights of
the public or of the corporation, its stockholders or creditors,
or to promote the due administration of its affairs. ,Sherman
v. Smith, 1 Black, 587; Afller v. State, 15 Wall. 478; Holyoke
Co. v. Lynan, 15 Wall. 500; Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700,
720, 721; Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466; Spring
Valley W-ater Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347; -. ew York &9
.New England Railroad v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556.

LOOKER r. MAbYNARD.
Opinion of the Court.

As illustrations of the right of the legislature, exercising such
a reserved power, to alter for the future the liability of stockholders to creditors of the corporation, or the mode of computing the votes of stockholders for directors, it will be sufficient
to state two of thie cases just cited.
The case of Sh~erman v. Smith, 1 Black, 587, was as follows:
The general banking act of New York ot 1838, c. 260, provided,
in § 15, that any number of persons might associate to establish a bank, upon the terms and conditions, and subject to the
liabilities prescribed in this act; in § 23, that no shareholder
of any association formed under this act should be-individually
liable for its debts, unless the articles of association signed by
him should declare that the shareholder should be liable; and,
in § 32, that the legislature might at any time alter or repeal
this act. The articles of association of a corporation organized
under this act in 1844 expressly provided that the shareholders
should not be individually liable for its debts. By provisions
of the constitution of New York of 1846, art. 8, see. 2, and of
the general statute of 1849, c. 226, the shareholders of all banks
were made liable for debts contracted by the bank after January 1, 1850. This court unanimously held that these provisions were not unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of
a contract.
The case of Ailer v. tate, 15 Wall. 4:78, was this: By the
Revised Statutes of New York of 1828, c. 18, tit. 3, it was enacted that "the charter of every corporation that shall hereafter be granted by the legislature shall be subject to alteration,
suspension and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature." The
constitution of New York of 1846, art. 8, see. 1, ordained as follows: "Corporations may be formed under general laws but shall
not be created by special act," except in certain cases. "All general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this sectioji may
be altered from time to time, or repealed." 2 Charters and Constitutions, 1363. In 1850 the legislature passed a general railroad act authorizing the formation of railroad corporations with
thirteen directors, and providing that the subscribers to the articles of association and all who should become stockholders in
the comp.ny should become a corporation, and "be subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the provisions contained in" the aforesaid title of the Revised
Statutes. Stat. 1850, c. 140, § 1. In the same year, a railroad
corporation was organized under that act for the construction
of a railroad from the city of Rochester to the town of Portage ; and in 1851, by a statute amending the charter of the city
of Rochester, that city was authorized to become a stockholder
in the corporation, and to appoint four of the thirteen directors.
Stat. 1851, c. 389, § 24. In 1867, the legislature passed another
statute, authorizing the city to appoint seven of the thirteen
directors. Stat. 1867, c. 59. This court upheld the validity
of the latter statute, upon the ground that the reservation in
the constitution of 1846, and in the statutes of 1828 and 1850,
of the power to alter or repeal the charter, clearly authorized
the legislature to augment or diminish the number, or to change
the apportionment, of the directors as the ends of justice or the
best interests of all concerned might require. 15 Wall. 492,
498. Thefull extent and effect of the decision are clearly brought
out by the opinion of two justices who dissented for the very
reason that the agreement with respect to the number of directors which the city should elect was not a part of the charter
of the company, but was an agreement between third parties,
outside of and collateral to the charter, and which the legislature could not reserve the power to alter or repeal. 15 Wall.
499. That case cannot be distingnished in principle from the
case at bar.
Remembering that the Dartmouth College case, (which was
the cause of the general introduction into the legislation of the
several States of a provision reserving the power to alter, amend
or repeal acts of incorporation,) concerned the right of a legislature to make a change in'
the number and mode of appointment of the trustees or managers of a corporation, we cannot
assent to the theory that an express reservation of the general
power does not secure to the legislature the right to exercise it
in this respect.
Judgment afrmed.

