OREGON R'D AND NAVI'N CO. v. BALFOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

OREGON
OREGON

RAILROAD AND NAVIGATION
PANY v. BALFOUR.
RAILWAY AND NAVIGATION
PAWY v. BALFOUR. '

COMCOM-

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 73, 74.

Submitted October 9,1900.

Decided October 22, 1900.

Proceedings to limit the liability of ship-owners are admiralty cases ; the
decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeal therein are made final by the
sixth section of the judiciary act of March 3, .1891; and appeals to this
court therefrom will not lie.

MOTION to dimiss.

X.
George H
motion.

Willim and Mr.

. E. . Wood for the

XrM.A. B. Browne and Yr. WW. Cotton opposing.
MR. CHIEF .TUSTIoE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
These were petitions for a limitation of liability of ship-owners, filed in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Oregon, sitting in admiralty, which proceeded to
decree in that court. From this decree appeals were prosecuted to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit and the decree affirmed: 90 Fed. Rep. 295.
From that decree appeals were taken to this court, which appellees' now move to dismiss.
By the sixth section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, it
is provided that the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts
of Appeals in admiralty cases shall be final; and no appeal to
this court lies therefrom. If, then, proceedings under the act

OCTOBER TER]t, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of Congress to limit the liability of ship-owners, and the rules
of this court in that regard, are admiralty cases, it follows that
the motions to dismiss must be sustained.
By the second section of article three of the Constitution,
the judicial power extends "to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," the word "maritime" having been added,
out of abundant caution, to preclude a narrow interpretation of
the word "admiralty."
The jurisdiction to limit the liability of ship-owners was conferred upon the District Courts by the act of Congress of
March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 635, c. 43, carried forward into sections
4282 to 4289 of the Revised Statutes.
It was not until December term, 1871, in the case of the
Norwioh Transportation Company v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104,
that the court was called upon to interpret the act, and to adopt
some general rules for the purpose of carrying it into effect,
and this was done at that term. 13 Wall. xxi, xiii; Rules of
Practice in Admiralty, 54-58.
The power of Congress to pass the act of 1851 and the power
of this court to prescribe rules regulating proceedings thereunder were maintained in that case, and were recognized and
reaffirmed in many subsequent cases. The Benefactor, 103 U. S.
239; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24; Providence &- N. Y. Steamship Co. v. Hill 2fanufacturing Co., 109 U. S. 578; Butler v.
Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527; 1& re 3 orison, Petitioner,
147 U. S. 14, 34. In the latter case the proceeding is styled
"an equitable action," but not in any sense as inconsistent with
the admiralty jurisdiction.
In these caseg the provisions of the act and of the rules are
fully set forth, explained, and commented on, and need not be
repeated. As decisive of the question before us it will be sufficient to give the following extracts from the opinion of the
court, delivered by iMr. Justice Bradley, in Providence Steamship Co. v. .anufacturing Company:
"The subject 'is one pre-eminently of admiralty jurisdiction.
The rule of limited liability prescribed by the act of 1851 is
nothing more than the old maritime rule administered in courts
of -admiralty in all countries except England, from time im-

OREGON R'D AND NAVI'N CO. v. BALFOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

memorial; and if this were not so, the subject matter itself
is one that belongs to the department of maritime law. The
adoption of forms and modes of proceeding requisite and proper
for giving due effect to the maritime rule thus adopted by Congress, and for securing to ship owners its benefits, was therefore
strictly within the powers conferred upon this court; and where
the general regulations adopted by this court do not cover the
entire ground, it is undoubtedly within the power of the district
and circuit courts, as courts of admiralty, to supplement them
by additional rules of their own. . . . In promulgating the
rules referred to, this court expressed its deliberate judgment as
to the proper mode of proceeding on the part of ship owners
for the purpose of having their rights under the act declared
and settled by the definitive decree of a competent court, which
should be binding on all parties interested, and protect the ship
owners from being harassed by litigation in other tribunals.
We see no reason to modify these views, and, in our
judgment, the proper District Court, designated by the rules, or
otherwise indicated by circumstances, has full jurisdiction and
plenary power, as a court of admiralty, to entertain and carry
on all proper proceedings for the due execution of the law, 'n
all its parts."
Clearly then these were admiralty cases; the decrees of the
Circhit Court of Appeals were made final by the statute; and
the appeals must be
Dismi sed.

