LAS ANIMAS LAND GRANT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 201
Syllabus.

construed by a state court that gives a right of review to this
court, but the claim of any right, title, privilege or immunity
under the statute must have been denied by the state tribunal
in order to give us jurisdiction to review its judgment. That a
Federal statute was construed unfavorably to one of the parties
to the suit is no ground for jurisdiction by this court, unless
such construction was not only unfavorable, but was against
the right, etc., specially set up and claimed under the statute.
In that case the party setting up and claiming the right under
the statute, which has been denied, can obtain a review here.
Thus it might happen, as it has happened in this case, that,
while the decision upon the construction of the statute was unfavorable to the maintenance of the cause of action set forth by
the plaintiff in error, it was not against, but in favor of, the
claim made under the Federal statute. The question whether
that statute, properly construed, prohibited the making of such
an agreement as that set up in the complaint in the state court,
having been decided in favor of the claim set up by defendant
under the statute, this court has no jurisdiction to review the
judgment. De Lama.'s Gold -3fiig Company v. Nesbitt, 17T
U. S. 523, 528, and cases there cited; Xissour'i v. Andriano,
138 U. S. 496.
The writ of error is therefore
Dismissed.

LAS ANIMAS LAND GRANT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT O1- PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.

No. 65. Argued lNovember 13,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.
The fourth subdivision of secfion 13 of the act establishing the Court of
Private Land Claims, which provides that "no claim shall be allowed
for any land the right to which has hitherto been lawfully acted upon
and decided by Congress or under its authority" applies to this case, and
the claimant has no right to ask that court to pass upon its claim.

-202,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.rA. William B. Vates for appellant.

.Xk. 3latthew G. Reynolds for appellees.

.3k..MoZicitor Gen-

eral was on his brief.
MR.JUSTICE PEOxHA. delivered the opinion of the court.

The company has appealed from the judgment of the Court
of Private Land Claims dismissing for lack of jurisdiction of
the subject-matter its claim, 4nd also the several claims in that
court which had been consolidated with it in the case now before us.
On March 2,1893, the appellant filed its petition in the court
below in regard to the land grant in question. It therein claimed
to be the owner, through mesne conveyances, of a land grant
made by the governor of New Mexico, in 1843, to two residents
f'the then department of New Mexico, (which was a department of the Republic of Mexico,) named respectively Cornelio
Vigil and Ceran St. Vrain. It was alleged that the grant had
been, subsequently to the cession of the territory to the United
States by the government of Mexico, surveyed by the United
States surveyor general for the State of Colorado, and that it
contained 3,640,465.21 acres. It was also alleged that pursuant
to the eighth section of the act of Congress, approved July 22,
1854, c. 103, 10 Stat. 308, the then owners of the grant presented the same to the surveyor general of the Territory of
Nev Mexico, who, pursuant to the provisions of the said act,
took testimony as to the nature, character and extent and bona
jFde8 of the grant, and on September" 17, 1857, rendered his decision in favor of the validity of the grant in its entirety, and
transmitted his report to the Congress of the United States for
its action in the premises. Subsequently Congress passed the
act approved June 21, 1860, c. 167, 12 Stat. 71, the first section
of which, in relation to claim No. 17, (the claim in question,)
enacted that it, should not be confirmed for more than eleven
square leagues to each of the claimants, Cornelio Vigil and Ce-

LAS ANIMAS LAND GRANT 00. v. UNITED STATES. 203
Opinion of the Court.

ran St. Vrain. (This would amount to something in the neighborhood of one hundred thousand acres of land.)
The second section of the act provided for a survey of the
claims of Vigil and St. Vrain, and directed that it should be
made with reference to actual settlers holding possession under
titles or promises to settle, which had heretofore been given by
said Vigil and St. Vrain in the tracts claimed by them, and these
settlers' tracts were to be deducted from the area embraced in
the twenty-two square leagues, and the remainder was to be
located in two equal tracts, each in square form, in any part of
the tract claimed by said Vigil and St. Vrain, selected by them,
and it was made the duty of the surveyor general of New Mexico
to immediately proceed to make the surveys and locations in
accordancewith the terms of the section.
It also appeared by the petition that Congress passed a further
act in relation to this claim, approved February 25, 1869, c. 47,
15 Stat. 275. That act gave directions for the survey of the
claims of Vigil and St. Vrain, and then directed that before the
act of June 21, 1860, 8upra, confirming the grant pro tanto,
should become legally effective, the claimants or their legal representatives were to pay the cost of so much of the surveys as
enured to their benefit respectively. The act further provided
that upon the adjustment of the claims, according to its provisions, it was the duty of the surveyor general to furnish approved plats to said claimants or their legal representatives, and
after the lines were run the surveyor general was to notify
Vigil and St. Vrain, or their agents, of the fact of such survey
being made, and those claimants were directed, within three
months after notice of such survey, to select and locate their
claims in accordance with the act, and also with the act of 1860,
which was amended by the act of 1869, and in'case they failed
to make such selection and location they were to be deemed and
held to have abandoned their claim.
Various other allegations were made in the petition, not now
material
The prayer was that the validity of the iitle to the grant to
Vigil and St. Vrain and the right of the petitioner, as their
grantee, by mesne conveyances, should be inquired into by the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

court, and that the grant, with the exception of tracts heretofore confirmed and awarded under the provisions of the acts
of Congress of June 21, 1860, and February 25, 1869, might be
confirmed to the petitioner, or to the heirs and legal representatives of the said Vigil and St. Vrain, and if any of the lands
had been sold that their value might be inquired into, and the
petitioner recover the same in place of such lands as may have
been disposed of by the Government.
An answer was filed on the part of the Government, which
put in issue all the allegations of the petition as to the validity
of the grant, and the answer alleged .that the grant was wholly
unauthorized and void.
Among other things the answer of the Government also referred to and set out the report of the Senate committee to the
Senate in 1860, which explained the reason for the act of 1860.
Reference was. made in the report to the original petition for
the grant and to the langu.age contained therein, which asked
only for a grant of a tract of land within the boundaries of the
land described in the petition, and not for a grant of the whole
land so described, and it was stated in the report that such
language formed no justification for the grant of the whole land
described in the petitioh; that such grant was the act alone of the
justice of the peace, who was without jurisdiction, and the committee found no proof of the approval of his action by an officer
superior to him, and as his power could not go beyond the execution of the governor's orders, the committee could not and did
not concur in the recommendation of the surveyor general that
the grant should be confirmed for the full extent claimed. The
committee thought, however, that the parties were entitled to
ha.ve their title: confirmed to some extent, and to what extent
involved the inquiry as to the true fneaning of the words "a
tract of land" as contained in the original petition, and the com-mitteereported that as "under the Mexican colonization law of
1824 and the regulations of 1828, the extreme quantity allowed
to be granted by the goverfor to any colonist was eleven square
leagues; that in the absence of any other guide a restriction of
the confirmation to the extent of eleven square leagues for each
claimant would be the utmost they could fairly expect, and

LAS ANIMAS LAND GRANT CO. v. UNITEI,

ATES. 205

Opinion of the Court.

would be not only a fair but a liberal compliance with the obligation imposed on the good faith of the United States under the
terms of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo." After this report
to the Senate, the act of 1860, giving to each of the'claimants a
confirmation for eleven square leagues, was passed. The act of
1869 was also set up in the answer.
The case was thus at issue, when, after notice to the claimants, it was called for trial in the court below, the record shows
that "no appearance was made by the plaintiffs and the court
took the matter under advisement." On October 5, 1898, the
record shows that "it appearing from the allegations of the several petitions herein that this court does not have jurisdiction
of the subject-matter of the several actions, for the reason that
the right to the land claimed in said suits has hitherto been lawfully acted upon and decided by Congress, it is ordered and decreed by the court that said causes be, and the same are hereby,
dismissed." The land company has appealed from this judgment of dismissal to this court. The court decided the case upon
P perusal of the petition, which showed the source of the grant
and the action of Congress in relation to it, and held that it
appeared therefrom the court had no jurisdiction.
The Court of Private Land Claims was specially organized
by the act of Congress approved March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat.
854-, for the purpose of hearing and determining claims of a
particular character specially pointed out and described in the
body of that act. It has no other jurisdiction than that granted
by Congress, being confined entirely to claims of the character
mentioned in the act.
The sixth section of the act describes generally the character
of the claims submitted to the court for adjudication.
Section 13 of the act provides "that all the foregoing proceedings and rights shall be conducted and decided subject to
the following provisions as well as to the other provisions of
this act, namely: . . . Fourth. No claim shall be allowed
fbr aiiy land the right to which has hitherto been lawfully acted
upon and decided by Congress or under its authority."
The history of the action of Congress in relation to this claim,
as contained in the petition and in the answer, shows that, so

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

far as the rights of the claimant under the land grants are concerned, those rights had been lawfully acted upon and decided.
by Congress prior to the passage of the act of 1891. The action
of Congress in the act of 1860, and as thereafter amended in
1869, was a final adjudication which granted eleven square
leagues to each of the two claimants and rejected and refused
to confirm the grant for any larger amount.
The claim in this case is thus brought directly within the
fourth subdivision of section 13, above set forth, and it is perfectly-clear that Congress did not give the Court of Private
Land Claims jurisdiction to determine the rights of the parties
in cases of this description.
Whatever the rights of the claimant may be, if any, to have
its claim decided by a judicial. tribunal, it certainly has no right
to ask that the Court of Private Land Claims shall pass upon
its claim when, by the very act which creates that court, it is
prohibited from exercising jurisdiction in a case like the one before us.
The judgment of the court below was, therefore, right, and
must be
Afflrmed.

BAGGS v. MARTIN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPE ALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No.205.

Submitted October 29,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.

The receiver in this case, having yoluntarily broughtthis case into the Circuit Court, by whose appointment he held his office, cannot, after that
court has passed upon the matter in controversy, ba heard to object to
the power of that court 'to render judgment therein.

Tins was a cause brought to this court on a certificate from
the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. A 'statement of the facts and the questions put will be
found in the opinion of the court.

