SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.
i MR. JuSTICE ILA.N and MR. JUSTICE WHrrE dissented.

MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the disposition of the case.

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 9. Argued October 16, 1899.-Decided November 12, 1900.

The prohibition in the Constitution of the United States of the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation has no application to the case of an owner of land bordering on a public navigable
river, whose access from his land to navigability is permanently lost by
reason of the construction, under authority of Congress, of a pier resting
on submerged lands away from, but in front of his upland, and which
pier was erected by the United States, not with any intent to impair the
right of riparian owners, but for the purpose only of improving the
navigation of such river.
It was not intended, by that provision in the Constitution, that the paramount authority of Congress to improve the navigation of the public
waters of the United States should be crippled by compelling the Government to make compensation for an injury to a riparian owner's right of
access to navigability that might incidentally result from an improvement
ordered by Congress.
The state courts of Michigan having recognized this action as a proper one
under the laws of that State for the relief sought by the plaintiff, this
court has jurisdiction to consider the questions of a Federal nature decided herein.

THIS writ of error brings up for review a final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Michigan holding that the United States
is not required to compensate an owner of land fronting on a
public navigable river when his right of access from the shore
to the navigable part of such river is permanently obstructed by
a pier erected in the river under the authority of Congress for
the purpose only of improving navigation.
Omitting any reference to immaterial matters, the case as
made by the pleadings and evidence is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

By an act of Congress approved September 26, 1850, c. 71,
providing for the examination and settlement of claims for land
at the Sault Ste. Marie in Michigan, the local register and receiver of the land office were authorized to report upon claims
to lots at that place under instructions to be given by the Commissioner of the General Land Office. 9 Stat. 469.
In conformity with proceedings under that act the heirs of
Franklin Newcomb and Samuel Peck were confirmed in their
claim jointly to premises known as Private Land Claim No. 3,
and a patent was issued to them by the United States on the
6th day of October, 1874. The premises were at the west or
upper end of the St. Mary's Falls Ship Canal, and one of the
boundaries, as shown by the field notes, was "along the right
bank of the Ste. Marie River." By mesne conveyances from
the heirs of Franklin Newcomb the plaintiff, Scranton, became
the owner of an undivided half of the land in question.
By an act approved August 26, 1852, c. 92, Congress granted
to the State of Michigan the right to locate a canal through the
public lands in that State known as the militaryi.reservation at
the Falls of St. Mary's River, and four hundred feet of land in
width extending along the line of the canal was granted for the
construction and convenience of the canal and the appurtenances thereto, the use being vested in the State for such purposes and no other. The act provided that the canal should be
located on the line of the survey made for that purpose or on
such other route between the waters above and below the Falls
as might be selected with the approval of the Secretary of War.
In aid of the construction and completion of the canal Congress
also granted to the State seven hundred and fifty thousand acres
of public lands, and it was provided that the canal should be
and remain a public highway for the use of the United States,
free from toll or other charge upon the vessels of the Government engaged in the public service or upon vessels employed in
the transportation of property or troops of the United States.
10 Stat. 35.
The construction of the canal was begun by Michigan in 1853
and completed in 1855. It was owned and operated by the
State until the year 1881, when it was transferred to the United

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

States in conformity with the River and Harbor Act of June 14,
1880, c. 211, by which $250,00.0 was appropriated for improving.
and operating the river and the canal, and by which also the

Secretary of War was authorized to accept on behalf of the
United States from the State of Michigan the St. Mary's Canal
and the public works thereon-the transfer to be so made as to
leave the United States free from all debts, claims or liability
of any character whatsoever, and the canal after the transfer to
be free for public use. By the same act the Secretary of War
was authorized, such transfer being made, to draw from time to
time his warrant on the Treasury to pay the actual expenses of
operating and keeping the canal in repair. 21 Stat. 180, 189.
Prior to the transfer Congress had made large appropriations
for the repair, preservation, improvement and completion of the
canal. 16 Stat. 224, c. 240; 16 Stat. 402, c. 34; 18 Stat. 238,
c. 457; 18 Stat. 456, c. 134; 19 Stat. 136, c. 267; 20 Stat. 156,
c. 264; 20 Stat. 369, c. 181; 21 Stat. 189, c. 211.
As originally constructed, a pier extended from the west end
of the canal into the water, curving to the north. This pier
was opposite to a part of Private Land Claim No. 3, but left at
that time a riparian frontage for those premises of from three
to four hundred feet.
In 1877 the United States commenced and in 1881 completed
the construction in the water of what is known as the New
South Pier, which extended across the entire front of Private
Land Claim No. 3 and was within the riparian ownership of the
plaintiff as projected from the land towards the middle thread
of the stream. The effect of the construction of this new pier
was to exclude the plaintiff altogether from access from his
land within the lateral lines of his riparian ownership, projected
as aforesaid, to the navigable water or to the channel of the
river that was navigable. On both sides of the space included
within such projected lines of the plaintiff's riparian ownership
and between the new pier and the bank of the river, the water
was only five feet in depth; so that by reason of the construction and maintenance of the pier the plaintiff was prevented
from reaching navigable water of greater depth than five feet.
The plaintiff desired to land freight on the New South Pier,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and thus convey it to the lot in question. But he was prevented
from doing so by the defendant Wheeler, superintendent of the
property, who was in possession of and exercised exclusive control over the canal and the pier as an officer or agent of the
United States, and not otherwise.
No part of the pier in question in front of Private Land Claim
No. 3 rests upon the fast land within that claim, but entirely
upon submerged lands in front of or opposite to the fast land.
The water between the pier and dry land is very shoal.
St. Mary's River forms a part of the boundary line between
the United States and Canada, and where navigable forms, with
the Great Lakes, a highway for interstate and international
commerce. Near the point in question the river was not originally navigable, owing to the falls, and the canal was built
around the falls to connect its navigable parts above and below,
and was used in connection therewith for the purposes of such
commerce.
The present action was brought by Scranton against Wheeler
in the Circuit Court of Chippewa County, Michigan, the declaration alleging that the plaintiff was the owner in fee but was
illegally deprived by the defendant of the possession of his interest in "Private Land Claim No. 3, Whelpley's survey, in the
village of Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, including therein that
portion of the land beneath the water of St. Mary's River from
the river bank on said lot to the thread of the stream of said
river, which forms a part of said lot, and all riparian rights belonging and attaching thereto and being a part thereof; ", which
premises the plaintiff claimed in fee. The damages alleged
were $35,000.
Upon the petition of Wheeler, the action was removed for trial
into the Circuit Court of theUnited States on the ground that
the Government of the United States was the real party in interest, and that the defence depended upon the construction of
the laws of the United States. In that court there was a judgment in his favor. The case was then carried to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, where the judgment was affirmed, an elaborate opinion being delivered by Judge Lurton. 16 U. S. App.
152; 57 Fed. Rep. 803. That court held: " That an officer of the

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case,

United States could be sued in ejectment by one claiming the
title and the right of possession; that the case was properly removed to the Circuit Court for trialj that the Circuit Court of
Appeals had jurisdiction under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, to .reiew the judgment of the Circuit Court; and
that as "an incident to ownership of lands on the margins of
navigable streams, the law of Michigan attaches the legal title
to the submerged lands under the stream comprehended within
parallel lines extending perpendicular to the general trend of
the shore along his land to the centre of the stream." After
observing that although the plaintiff under the law of Michigan was- seized of the legal title to the soil under the water, yet,
in the very nature of the property, such seizure was of the bare
technical title, the court proceeded: "It must, from these constitutional principles, follow that the State of Michigan held the
soil beneath her navigable rivers under 'a high *public trust, to
forever preserve them free as public highways, subject only to
the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
The legal title which, under her law, becomes vested in such
proprietors, must be subject to the same public trusts, and therefore subordinate to the rights of navigation, and subordinate
to the power of Congress to control and use the soil under such
streams whenever the necessities of navigation and commerce
should demand it. The right of Congress to regulate commerce,
;111d, as an incident, navigation, remains unaffected by the question as to whether the title to the soil submerged is in the State
or is in the owner of the shores. A distinction must be recognized between that which is ju8p2ivatum and that which isjU8
publicumn. This private right is subordinate to the public right.
The plaintiff holds the naked legal title, and with it he takes
such proprietary rights as are consistent with the public right of
navigation, and the control of Congress over that right. .
The significance of that case [ lilkon v. .MXarsk Co., 2 Pet. 21 5],
as it affects this, was the refusal to enjoin the erection of the
bridge on the complaint of one owning land on the shores above,
whose access to and use of the stream was thereby injured. His
property had not been taken. The injury to him was consequential, and he was held to be without remedy. Here the
VOL. CLxxIx-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff has sustained an injury which is wholly a consequence
of the erection of a structure by Congress in aid of the general
and public right of navigation. If Congress may lawfully use
the soil as a support for such structures without acquiring the
naked title outstanding in the plaintiff, then, for such injuries
as are merely consequential, it is a case of damage without an
actionable injury. A distinction exists between those cases
where, under authority of the State, a structure has been placed
in a navigable stream, such as a bridge, or lock and dam, as an
improvement to the navigation of a stream wholly within its
borders, and which is sought to be removed under the authority of subsequent Congressional legislation. In such case, the
improvement, being by authority of law, can only be taken for
public uses upon just compensation. This is the doctrine of the
case of Mfonongahela Navigatio Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312. In that case it was held that not only must the actual
property of the owner in the structure, but his- franchise also,
must be paid for. The plaintiff in thle case before us has made
no improvements for either public or private uses. No property of his has been invaded, none has been taken. The title in
him was subject to the public uses. He held the soil under the
river subservient to the purposes of navigation. The right to
regulate commerce involved the right to regulate navigation,
and this, in turn, involves the necessary uses of the submerged
lands, in so far as such use was essential to the maintenance of
the public highway.

.

.

.

The-conclusion that we -have

reached is that there is no error in the judgment of the Circuit
Court. The plaintiff has no. such ownership of the loCus in quo
as makes its use for the purposes to which it has been devoted
a taking of private property within the meaning of the Constitution2'
Upon writ of error to this court the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals .was reversed, upon the joint motion of the
parties, with directions to remand the case to the state court
for trial. The parties concurred in the opinion that the case
was not removable from the state court - Tennessee v. Union
and Planters' Bank, 152 U. S.454, and Chap1,ell v. WVaterworth, 155 U. S.102, being cited by them in support of that
view.

SCRANTON v. WHEELER
Statement of the Case.

At the trial in the state court the plaintiff asked the court to
charge the juryThat under the law of Michigan applicable to the facts in
this case, the plaintiff was the owner of the submerged land in
front of his upland, bounded by lines extending from the lateral
lines of the upland to the centre file of the stream, and running
at right angles with the course of the stream in front of the
upland, and therefore that the land and property described in
the declaration belonged to and was owned by the plaintiff in
fee simple, and so belonged to him when the action was brought;
That the pier or structure in question was constructed and
was maintained by the defendant across plaintiff's land without
his consent and against his rights in the premises;
That neither the defendant nor the United States had any
lawful right to congtruct the pier on and across the premises
in question, thus taking possession of the premises adversely
to the plaintiff and excluding him from enjoyment thereof, and
from all access from his land and premises to the navigable
water of the river in -front thereof, and from the navigable
water of the river to his land;
That neither the Government of the United States nor the
defendant had any lawful right to so construct the pier or to
maintain the same as was being done at the time suit was
brought, and as they were now doing, without their first having acquired the right to so construct and maintain the salne
from the owner of the fee, or without obtaining the right therefor by proceedings under the power of eminent domain on payment of due compensation to the owner of the land therefor;
and,
That under Article V of the kmendments to the Constitution
of the United States the property in question could not lawfully
be taken for the public use to which it was appropriated without just compensation having been made therefor to the owner
or without due process of law.
The plaintiff also requested this instruction: "The construction of this pier was in violation, and the maintaining of the
same was in violation of, said Article V of the Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States in this, that it appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

from the tesiimony in the case that the same was appropriated
without due process of law, and the same was taken and devoted to a public use without the consent of the owner thereof,
and without just compensation therefor, and that the taking
possession of the land of the plaintiff, as appears by the record,
was in violation of said Article V; and that the taking possession of the land of the plaintiff and the construction of the pier
thereon, in the manner shown in this case, the effect of which
was to deprive him of all egress from his said land to the navigable water, the natural navigable water of the stream, and to
prevent him using his said property by passing over or across
said pier, as shown in the testimony of the case, was in violationof said Article V of the Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, and as depriving the owner thereof of his property without due process of law, and without just compensation,
and without his consent."
These instructions were severally refused, and to that action
of the court the plaintiff excepted.
In charging the jury the court stated that the United States
District Attorney had suggested in writing that the property
in controversy, the title and possession of which were the subjects of this litigation, was and for many years had been in the
possession of the United States through its officers and agents;
that it was held for public uses in connection with the commerce and navigation of the Great Lakes; that, the nominal defendant had no personal interest in the matter; that his physical
possession of the premises was in his official capacity and in
law the possession of the United States; that the United States
had always held title to the said land, and now holds possession
under its claim of title; that this action was in effect an action
against the United States Government, which in its sovereign
capacity could not be sued; and for these reasons the District
Attorney asked that all 'proceedings be stayed and the suit dismissed.
A verdict for the defendant was directed on the ground that,
in legal effect, the action was against the United States and
that a judgment for the plaintiff would be one against the Gov.
eminent and its property.

SCRANTON r. WHEELER.
Statement of the Case.

In the Supreme Court of the State the failure of -the trial
court to charge the jury as requested by the plaintiff, and the
direction to the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, were
assigned for error. That court, all the justices concurring,
held that the action was not against the United States, but affirmed the judgment upon other grounds. It said: "When
one in the actual possession of property defends his right of possession upon the ground that the Government, state or national,
has placed him in possession, he must show that the right of the
Government is paramount to the right of the plaintiff, or judgment will go against him. This point has been settled by the
decision of the Supreme Court of the United States rendered
May 10, 1897. Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204. In that case
the authorities upon this point are reviewed-at length, including
the case of stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U..S. 255, upon which defendant mainly relies. The United States Government took
possession of the submerged land of the plaintiff for the purpose of erecting thereon piers in aid of the immense navigation
upon the Great Lakes and the rivers connecting them. That
the improvements made were necessary to aid and protect this
navigation is established beyond dispute. Had the Government the right,to make these improvements upon the submerged
land without compensation to the adjoining owner? It is conceded that under the law of Michigan the title to submerged
land is in the adjoining owner to the thread of the stream.
It is insisted in behalf of the plaintiff that the Government possesses no right to so use his land, although submerged, and although necessary to so use it in aid of navigation, as to cut off
his access to the open water. It is contended on the other hand
that this title to submerged lands along navigable waters, and
the right of access thereto, are subject to the paramount right,
of the United States to use this land in such manner as thev
shall determine to be necessary in aid of navigation. The
Court of Appeals was unanimous in its opinion against the
plaintiff's claim. In a very able opinion delivered by Judge
Lurton the facts are clearly stated, the authorities cited, and we
think the conclusion there reached is the correct one. We
therefore deem it unnecessary for us to enter into a long dis-

OCTOBER.TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

cussion of the law and the authorities. The case of Hawkins
Point Lighthouse, 39 Fed. Rep. '77, appears to be exactly in
point, and to rule the present case. We think the conclusion
reached by the court below was a correct one, although it gave
a wrong reason." 113 Mich. 565.
The Hawkins PointLighthouse case referred to in the opinion
of the state court was ejectment brought in a Circuit Court of
the United States against a government keeper of a lighthouse
to recover possession of such house, erected in the Patapsco
River, a public navigable water of the United States, by the
Lighthouse Board in pursuance of acts of Congress. There was
no condemnation for public use of the lands upon which the
lighthouse rested, nor was any compensation made to any one
for the site. The plaintiff was the owner of the upland, but had
not, in the exercise of his riparian right, improved out into the
water in front of his land. The court, speaking by Judge
Morris, held that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, saying: "While the submerged land remains a part of the bed of
the river it is not private property in the sense of the Fifth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution. As was declared in
Gilman v. Philade phia, 3 Wall. 725, the navigable waters ' are
the public property of the nation, and subject to all the requisite legislation by Congress.' In the hands of the State or of
the state's grantee the bed of a navigable river remains subject
to an easement of navigation, which the General Government
can lawfully enforce, improve and protect. It is by no means
true that any dealing with a navigable stream which impairs
the.value of the rights of riparian owners gives them a claim
for compensation. The contrary doctrine, that, in order to
develop the greatest public utility of a waterway, private convenience must often suffer without compensation, has been sanctioned by repeated decisions of the Supreme Court. The following are cases all involving that proposition: The Blackhird
Creek Case, 2 Pet. 245; Gilman v. Philade )hia, 3 Wall. 713;
Pound v. Turro, 95 U. S. 459; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S.
379 ; South Carolinav. Georgia,93 U. S.4. If it were made apparent to Congress that any extension of the plaintiff's present
shore line into the river tended to impair the navigability of

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

the stream or its use as a highway of commerce, Congress could
authorize the agents of the United States to establish the present shore as the line beyond which no structures of any kind
could be extended, and the plaintiff would have no claim for
compensation. If the plaintiff could thus lawfully be prevented
from appropriating to his private use any part of the submerged
land lying in front of his shore line, and the whole of it be kept
subservient to the easement of navigation, how can it be successfully claimed that he must be paid for the small portion covered
by the lighthouse 200 feet from the shore, which has been taken
for a use as strictly necessary to safe navigation as the improved
channel itself ? The Court of Appeals of Maryland, whenever
called upon to declare the nature of the title of the State and its
grantees in the land at the bottom of navigable streams, has
uniformly held that the soil below high-water mark was as
much a part of the ju publium as the stream itself." 39 Fed.
Rep. 77.
The plaintiff, Scranton, has assigned various grounds of error.
These grounds are substantially those embodied in his requests
for instructions in the trial court, and which were insisted upon
in the Supreme Court of the State.
(.Donnelly and
Mr.JfohI
tiff in error.

'. Harlow P. Davock for plain-

Mr.Robert Howard for defendant in error.
General was on his brief.

XrA.Solctor

MR.JusTcn HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts as above reported, he proceeded:

1. The Government insists that ejectment is not the proper
remedy for a riparian owner to secure the removal of a structure
that interferes with access by him from his fast land to navigable water. A sufficient answer to this objection is that the
state court recognized the present action as a proper one under
the laws of Michigan for the relief sought by the plaintiff. We
have therefore to consider only the controlling questions of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Federal nature presented by the record and decided by the state
court.
2. The Supreme Court of the State correctly held that the
trial court erred in diredting a verdict for the defendant upon
the ground that a judgment against him would in legal effect
be a judgment against the United States. It is true the defendant Wheeler insisted that the action of which the plaintiff complained was taken by him under the authority of the United
States. But this fact was not sufficient to defcat the suit. If
the plaintiff was entitled to access from his land to navigable
water, and if the defendant stood in the way of his enjoying
that right, then the court was under a duty to inquire whether
the defendant had or could have any authority in law to do
what he had done; and the suit was not to be deemed one against
the United States because in the consideration of that question
it would become necessary to ascertain whether the defendant
could constitutionally acquire from the United States authority to
obstruct the plaintiff's access to navigable water in front of his
land without making or securing compensation to him. The
issue, in point of law, was between the individual plaintiff and
the individual defendant, and the United States not being a
party of record i judgment against Wheeler will not prevent it
from instituting a suit for the direct determination of its rights
as against the plaintiff. This subject has been examined by the
court in numerous cases, the most recent one being Tindal v.
Wesley, 167 U. S. 204, 222, 223. In that case-which was a
suit to recover real property in South Carolina held by the defendants, as they insisted, in their capacities as officers of the
State and only for the State-it was said that "the Eleventh
Amendment gives no immunity to officers or agents of a State
in withholding the property of a citizen without authority of
law. And when such officers or agents assert that they are in
rightful possession, they must make good that assertion when it
is made to appear in a suit against them as individuals that the
legal title and right of possession is in the plaintiff." Again:
"It is said that the judgment in this case may conclude the
State. Not so. It is a judgment to the effect only that as between the plaintiff and the defendants, the former is entitled to

SCRANTON r'. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the property in question, the latter havinig shown
no valid authority to withhold possession from the plaintiff;
that the assertion by the defendants of a right to remain in possession is without legal foundation. The State not being a party
to the suit, the judgment will not conclude it. Not having submitted its rights to the determination of the court in this case,
it will be open to the State to bring any action that may be appropriate to establish and protect whatever claim it has to the
premises in dispute. Its claim, if it means to assert one, will
thus be brought to the test of the law as administered by tribunals ordained to determine controverted rights of property;
and the record in this case will not be evidence against it for
any purpose touching the merits of its claim."
These principles are applicable to the present case, and show
that it is not within the rule forbidding a suit against the United
States excbpt with its consent.
3. The vital question therefore is the one heretofore mentioned, namely, whether the prohibition in the Constitution of
the United States of the taking of private property for public
use without just compensation has any application to the case
of an owner of land bordering on a public navigable river whose
access from his land to navigability is permanently lost by reason
of the construction of a pier resting on submerged lands away
from but in front of his upland, and which pier was erected by
the United States not with any intent to impair the rights of
riparian owners but for the purpose only of improving the nawigation of such river.
Undoubtedly compensation must be made or secured to the
owner when that which is done is to be regarded as a taking of
private property for public use within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution; and . jf tcourse in its exercise
of the power to regulate commerces Congress may not override
the provision that just compensation must be made when private
property is taken for public use. What is private property
within the meaning of that Amendment, or what is a taking of
private property for public use, is not always easy to determine.
No decision of this court has announced a rule that will embrace
every case. But what has been said in some cases involving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

general question will assist us in determining whether the present plaintiff has been denied the protection secured by the constitutional provision in question.
In Pumpelly v. Green Bay Camvany, 13 Wall. 166, 181, the
court construed a provision of the constitution of Wisconsin
declaring that "the property of no person shall be taken for
public use without just compensation therefor;" observing that
it was a provision almost identical in language with the one
relating to the same subject in the Federal Constitution. In
that case it appeared that a public improvement in a navigable
water was made under local statutory authority, whereby the
plaintiff's land was permanently overflowed and its use for
every purpose destroyed. Referring to some adjudged cases
which went, as the court observed, beyond sound principle, it
was said that, "it remains true that where real estate is actually
invaded by superinduced additions of water, earth, sand or other
material, or by having any artificial structure placed on it, so
as to effectually destroy or impair its usefulness, it is a taking,
within the meaning of the Constitution, and that this proposition is not in conflict with the weight of judicial authority in
this country, and certainly not with sound principle."
That case was relied upon in Transportation Co. v. Chicago,
99 U. S. 635, 642, as establishing the invalidity of certain municipal acts looking to the improvement of a public highway.
But this court, said that "acts done in the proper exercise of
governmental powers, and hot directly encroaching upon private
property, though their consequences may impair its use, are
universally held not to be a taking within the meaning of the
constitutional provision. They do not entitle the owner of such
property to compensation from the State or its agents, or give
him any right of action. This is supported by an immense
weight of authority." It was observed in the same case that
the extremest qualification of the doctrine was that found in
Pumpelly's case, and that 6ase was referred to as holding nothing more than that "the permanent flooding of private property may be regarded as a ' taking,'" because there would be
in such case "a physical invasion of the real estate of the owner,
and a practical ouster of his possession."

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

In fononahela NraoiationCo. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312,
341, 343, there was an actual taking of certain locks and dams
which had been constructed and maintained, under competent
authority, by a navigation company, and the question was
whether the franchise to take tolls for the use of the locks was
.to be deemed a part of the property taken for which compensation must be made. This court held that it was, remarking:
"The franchise is a vested right. The State has power to grant
it. It may retake it, as it may take other private property, for
public uses, upon the payment of just compensation. A like,
though a superior, power exists in the National Government.
It may take it for public purposes, and take it even against the
will of the State; but it can no more take the franchise which
the State has given than it can any private property belonging
to an individual." Again, in the same case: "It is also suggested that the Government does not take this franchise; that
it does not need any authority from the State for the exaction
of tolls, if it desires to exact them; that it only appropriates
the tangible property, and then either makes the use of it free
to all, or exacts such tolls as it sees fit, or transfers the property
to a new corporation of its own creation, with such a franchise to
take tolls as it chooses to give. But this franchise goes with the
property; and the Navigation Company, which owned it, is
deprived of it. The Government takes it away from the company, whatever use it may make of it; and the question of just
compensation is not determined by the value to the Government which takes, but the value to the individual from whom
the property is taken; and when by the taking of the tangible
property the owner is actually deprived of the franchise to collect .tolls, just compensation requires payment, not merely of
the value of the tangible property itself, but also of that of the
franchise of which he is deprived."
But the case most analogous to the present one is that of Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 271, 275, 276. That was
an action in the Court of Claims to recover .damages resulting
from the construction of a dike by the United States in the
Ohio River near the plaintiff's farm on Neville Island, a short
distance below Pittsburg.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

From the finding of facts in that case it appears that at the
time the dike was constructed Mrs. Gibson's farm was in a high
state of cultivation, with a frontage of 1000 feet on the main
channel of the Ohio River, and had a landing that was used in
shipping products from and in bringing supplies to it, and that
there was no other landing on the farm which the owner could use
in shipping products and in receiving supplies; that the dike was
constructed under the authority of an act of Congress appropriating money for improving the Ohio River; that the owner
was unable to use the landing for the shipment of products
from and supplies to the farm for the greater part of the gardening season on account of the (like obstructing the passage of
boats, and could only use the landing at a high stage of water;
that after, the dike was made she could not, during the ordinary stage of water, ship products from or receive supplies for
her farm, without going over the farms of her neighbors to
reach another landing; and that in consequence of the construction and maintenance of the dike the plaintiff's farm had been
reduced in value from $600 to $150 or $200 per acre. It was
further found that the plaintiff's access to the navigable part of
the river was not entirely cut off; that at a nine-foot stage of
water, which frequently occurred during November, December,
March, April and May, she could get into her dock in any manner, while from a three-foot stage of water she could communicate with the navigable channel through a chute, and at any
time haul out to the channel by wagon; that no water was
thrown back on the land by the building of the dike; and that
the dike itself did not come into physical contact with the land
and was constructed in the exercise of a claimed right to improve the navigation of the river.
This court held that ,the plaintiff had no cause ot action
against the United States. It said: ",All navigable waters are
under the control of the United States for the purpose of regulating and improving navigation, and although the title to the
shore and submerged soil is in the various States and individual
owners under them, it is always subject to the servitude ii respect of navigation created in favor of the Federal Government by the Constitution " - citing South Carolinav. Georgia,

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

93 U. S. 4; SUvely v. BowZby, 152 U. S. 1; Eldridge v. Trezevam, 160 U. S. 452. Again, in the same case: "The Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States provides
that private property shall not ' be taken for public use without just compensation.' Here, however, the damage of which
Mrs. Gibson complained was not the result of the taking of any
part of her property, whether upland or submerged, or a direct
invasion thereof, but the incidental consequence of the lawful
'Moreover,"
and proper exercise of a governmental power."
the court said, "riparian ownership is subject to the obligation
to suffer the consequences of the improvement of navigation in
the exercise of the dominant right of the Government in that
regard. The legislative authority for these works consisted
simply in an appropriation for their construction, but this was
an assertion of a right belonging to the Government, to which
riparian property was subject, and not of a right to appropriate
private property, not burdened with such servitude, to public
purposes."
In the light of these adjudications can it be held that Scranton, the plaintiff, is entitled, by reason of the construction of
the pier in question, to compensation for the destruction of his
right, as riparian owner, of access from his land to the navigable part of the river immediately in front of it?
It is said that he is so entitled in virtue of the decision in
Yates v. -Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497, 504, 505. 'The report of
that case shows that Yates owned a wharf on a navigable river
within the limits of the city of Milwaukee and that the city by
an ordinance declared the wharf to be a nuisance and ordered
it to be abated. There was no proof whatever in the record
that the wharf was in fact an obstruction to navigation or a
nuisance except the declaration to that effect in the city ordinance; and Yates brought suit to enjoin interference with it
by the city. This court held that the mere declaration by the
city that Yates' wharf was a nuisance did not make it one, saying : "It is a doctrine not to be tolerated in this country that,
a municipal corporation, Without any general laws either of
the city or of the State, within which a given structure can
be shown to be a nuisance, can, by its mere declaration that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

is one, subject it to removal by any person supposed to be aggrieved, or even by the city itself." This, as this court said in
Shively v. Bowby, 152 U. S. 1, 40, was quite sufficient to dispose of the case in Yates' favor, and indicated the point adjudged. A proper disposition of the case required nothing
more to be said. But the opinion of the court went further,
and after observing, upon the authority of Dutton v. Strong,
1'Black, 23, and Railroad Co. v. Schurneir,7 Wall. 272, that
a riparian owner is entitled to access to the navigable part of
the river from the front of his lot, subject to such general rules
and regulations as the legislature might prescribe for the protection of the rights of .the public, said: "This riparian right is
property, and is valuable, and though it must be enjoyed in due
subjection to the rights of the public, it cannot be arbitrarily
or capriciously destroyed or impaired. It is a right of which,
when once vested, the owner can only be deprived in accordance
with established law, and, if necessary that it be taken for the
public good, upon due compensation."
The decision in .Yates v. Afilwaukee cannot be regarded as an
adjudication upon thb particular point involved in the present
case. That, as we have seen, was a case in which the riparian
owner had in conformity with law erected a wharf in front of his
upland in order to have access to navigable water. The city of
Milwaukee attempted arbitrarily and capriciously to destroy or
remove the wharf that had lawfully come into existence and
was not shown, in any appropriate mode, to have been an obstruction to navigation. It was a case in which a municipal
corporation intended the actual destruction of tangible property belonging to a riparian owner and lawfully used by him
in reaching navigable water, and not, like this, a case of the exercise in a proper manner of an admitted governmental power
resulting indirectly or incidentally in the loss of the citizen's
right of access to navigation-a right never exercised by him
in the construction of a wharf before the improvement in question was made by the Government.
While the present case differs in its facts from any case heretofore decided by this court, it is embraced by principles of constitutional law that have become firmly established.

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court

The Constitution invests Congress with the power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.
This power includes the power to prescribe "the rule by which
commerce is to be governed;" "is complete in itself, may be
exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations
other than.are prescribed in the Constitution ;" and "comprehends navigation within the limits of every State in the Union,
so far as that navigation may be, in any manner, connected with
'commerce with foreign nations, or among the several States,
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
or with the Indian tribes."'
196, 197.
In Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. >13, 124, the court said:
"Commerce includes navigation. The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that purpose, and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable waters of the United States
which are accessible from a State other than those in which they
lie. For this purpose they are the public property of the nation,
and subject to all the requisite legislation by Congress."
In South Carolinav. Georgia,93 U. S. 4,-11, 12, the court said
that Congress "may build lighthouses in the bed of the stream.
It may construct jetties. It may require all navigators to pass
along a prescribed channel, and may close any other channel to
their passage."
In .Afobile County v. .imball, 102 U. S. 691, 696, the court,
observing that the power of Congress to regulate-commerce was
without limitation, said: "It authorizes Congress to prescribe'
the conditions upon which commerce in all its forms shall be
conducted between our citizens and the citizens or subjects of
other countries and between the citizens of the several States,
and to adopt measures to promote its growth and insure its
safety. And as commerce embraces navigation, the improvement of harbors and bays along our coast, and of navigable
rivers within the States connecting with them, falls within the
power."
In Stockton v. Baltimore & -Y Y. Railroad,32 Fed. Rep. 9,
20, Mr. Justice Bradley, holding the Circuit Court, said: "Such
being the character of the state's ownership of the land under
water-an ownership held, not for the purpose of emolument,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

but for public use, especially the public use of navigation and
commerce-the question arises whether it is a kind of property
susceptible of pecuniary compensation, within the meaning of
the Constitution. The Fifth Amendment provides only that
irivatejn'ol)eryt shall not be taken without compensation, making no reference to public property. But, if the phrase may'
have an application broad enouglh to include all property and
ownership, the question would still arise whether the appropriation of a few square feet of the river bottom to the foundation
of a bridge, which is to be used for the transportation of an extensive commerce in aid and relief of that afforded by the waterway, is at all a diversion of the property from its original publie use. It is not so considered when sea walls, piers, wing-dams
and other structures are erected for the purpose of aiding commerce by improving and preserving the navigation. Why should
it be deemed such when (without injury to the navigation) erections are made for the purpose of aiding and enlarging commerce beyond the capacity of the navigable stream itself, and
of all the navigable waters of the country? It is commerce,
and not navigation, which is the great object of constitutional
care. The power to regulate commerce is the basis of the power
to regulate navigation and navigable waters and streams, and
these are so completely subject to the control of Congress, as
subsidiary to commerce, that it has become usual to call the entire navigable waters of the country -thenavigable waters of the
United States. It matters little whether the United States had
or has not the theoretical ownership and dominion in the waters, or the land under them; it has, what is more, the regulation and control of them for the purposes of commerce. So
wide and extensive is the operation of this power that no State
can place any obstruction in or upon any navigable waters
against the will of Congress, and Congress may summarily remove such obstructions at its pleasure. And all this power is
derived from the power ' to regulate commerce.' Is this power
stayed when it comes to the question of erecting a bridge for
the purposes of commerce across a navigable stream? We
think not. We think that the power to regulate commerce between the States extends, not only to the control of the naviga-

SCRANTON r. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

ble waters of the country, and the lands under them, for the
purposes of navigation, but for the purpose of erecting piers,
bridges and all other instrumentalities of commerce which, in
the judgment of Congress, may be necessary or expedient."
As much was said in argument about the decisions in New
York it may be well here to refer to some of the rulings of the
highest court of that State. In Rumsey et al. v. -ew York
and N ew England RailroadCo., 133 N. Y. 79, 85, 89, the Court
of Appeals of New York, referring to the prior case of Gould v.
HRudson River Railroad Co., 6 N. Y. 522, said: "It -was there
held that the owner of lands on the Hudson River has no private right or property in the waters or the shore between high
and low-water mark, and, therefore, is not entitled to compeii
sation from a railroad company which, in pursuance of a grant
from the legislature, constructs a railroad along the shore, between high and low-water mark, so as to cut off all communications between the land and the river otherwise than across
the railroad. It is believed that this proposition is not supported by any other judicial decision in this State, and if we
were dealing with the question now as an original one, it would
not be difficult to show that the judgment in that case was a departure from precedent and contrary to reason and, justice."
Again, in the same case: "It must now, we think, be regarded
as the law in this State that an owner of land on a public river
is entitled to such damages as he may have sustained against a
railroad company that constructs its road across his water front
and deprives him of access to the navigable part of the stream,
unless the owner has granted the right, or it has been obtained
by the power of eminent domain. This principle cannot, of
course, be extended so as to interfere with the right of the State
to improve the navigation of the river, or with the power of
Congress to regulate commerce under the provisions of the Federal Constitution."
But in a later case in New York relating to this subjectSage v. The -Mayor, 15d N. Y. 61, 69-the Court of Appeals,
after observing that the court in umey et al. v. N .ew York
and -ew England Railroad Co. had been careful to say that,
the principle announced by it was not to be extended so as to
VOL. CLXXX-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

interfere with the right of the State to improve the navigation
of the river, or with the power of -Congress to regulate commerce under the provisions of the Federal Constitution, said:
"While we think it is a logical deduction from the decisions in
this State that, as against the general public, through their official representatives, riparian owners have no right to prevent
important public improvements upon tidewater for the benefit
of commerce, the principle upon which the rule rests, although
sometimes foreshadowed, has not been clearly set forth. Although, as against individuals or the unorganized public, riparian owners have special rights to the tideway that are recognized and protected by law, as against the general public, as
organized and represented by government, they have no rights
that do not yield to commercial necessities, except the right of
preemption, when conferred by statute, and the right to wharfage, when protected by a grant and covenant on the part of the
State, as in the Iangdon [93 N. Y. 129] and Williams [105 N. Y.
419] cases. I think that the rule rests upon the principle of implied reservation, and that in every grant of lands bounded by
navigable waters where the tide ebbs and flows, made by the
crown or the State as trustee for the public, there is reserved
by implication the right to so improve the water front as to
aid navigation for the benefit of the general public, without
compensation to the riparian owner. The implication springs
from the title to the tideway, the nature of the subject of the
grant and its relation to navigable tidewater, which has been
aptly called the highway of the world. The common law recognizes navigation as an interest of paramount importance to
the public."
All the cases concur in holding that the power of Congress
to regulate commerce, and therefore navigation, is paramount,
and is unrestricted except by the limitations upon its authority
by the Constitution. Of course, every part of the Constitution
is as binding upon Congress as upon the people. The guarantees
prescribed by it for the security of private property must be
respected by all. But whether navigation upon waters over
which Congress may exert its authority requires improvement
at all, or improvement in a particular way, are matters wholly

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Opinion of the Court.

within its discretfon; and the judiciary is without power to
control or defeat the will of Congress, so-long as that branch of
the Government does not transcend the limits established by
the supreme law of the land. Is the broad power with which
Congress is invested burdened with the condition that a riparian
owner whose land borders upon a navigable water of the United
States shall be compensated for his right of access to navigability
whenever such right ceases to be of value solely in consequence
of the improvement of navigation by means of piers resting
upon submerged lands away from the sbore line? We think
not. The question before us does not depend upon the inquiry
whether the title to the submerged lands on which the New
South Pier rests is in the State or in the riparian owner. It is
the settled rule in Michigan that "the title of the riparian owner
extends to the middle line of the lake or stream of the inland
waters."
Weber v. The Pere -Marquette Boom Co., 62 Mich.
626, and authorities there cited. But it is equally well settled
in that State that the rights of the riparian owner are subject
to the public easement or servitude of navigation. Lorman v.
Beneon, 8 Mich. 18, 32; Ryan v. Brown, 18 IMich. 196, 207.
So that whether the title to the submerged lands of navigable
waters is in the State or in the riparian owners, it was acquired
subject to the rights which the public have in the navigation of
such waters. The primary use. of the waters and the lands
under them is for purposes of navigation, and the -erection of
piers in them to improve navigation for the public is entirely
consistent with such use, and infringes no right of the riparian
owner. Whatever the nature of the interest of a riparian owner
in the submerged lands in front of his upland bordering on a
public navigable water, his title is not as full and complete as
his title to fast land which has no direct connection with the
navigation of such water. It is a qualified title, a bare technical
title, not at his absolute disposal, as is his upland, but to be held
at all times subordinate to such use of the submerged lands and
of the waters flowing over them as may be consistent with or
demanded by the public right of navigation. In Lorman v.
Ben8son, above cited, the Supreme Court of Michigan, speaking
by Justice Campbell, declared the right of navigation to be one

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to #rhich all others were subservient. The learned counsel for
the plaintiff frankly states that compensation cannot be demanded for the appropriationof the submerged lands in question and that the United States under the power to regulate
commerce has an unquestioned right to ocoupy them for a lawful
purpose and in a lawful manner. This must be so-certainly in
every case where the use of the submerged lands is necessary or
appropriate in improving navigation. But the contention is
that compensation must be made for the loss of the plaintiff's
access from his upland to navigability incidentally resulting
from the occupancy of the submerged lands, even if the construction and maintenance of a pier resting upon them be necessary or valuable in the proper improvement of navigation. We
cannot assent to this view. If the riparian owner cannot enjoy
access to navigability because of the improvement of navigation
by the construction away from the shore line of works in a
public navigable river or water, and if such right of access
ceases alone for that reason to be of value, there is not, within
the meaning of the Constitution, a taking of _private property
for public use, but only a consequential injury to a right which
must be enjoyed, as was said in the Yates case, "in due subjection to the rights of the public "-an injury resulting incidentally from the exercise of a governmental power for the
benefit of the general public, and from which no duty arises
to make or secure compensation to the riparian owner. The
riparian owner acquired the right of access to navigability subject to the contingency that such right might become valueless
in consequence of the erection under competent authiority of
structures on the submerged lands in front of his property for
the purpose of improving navigation. When erecting the pier
in question, the Government had no object in view except, in
the interest of the public, to improve navigation. It was not
designed arbitrarily or capriciously to destroy rights belonging
to any riparian owner. What was done was manifestly necessary to meet the demands of international and interstate commerce. In our opinion, it was not intended that the paramount
authority of Congress to improve the navigation of the public
navigable waters of the United States should be crippled by

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
Jusnoms

SmAs,

GRAY and PEaKHAM, dissenting.

compelling the Government to make compensation for the injury
to a riparian owner's right of access to navigability that might
incidentally result from an improvement ordered by Congress.
The subject with which Congress dealt was navigation. That
which was sought to be accomplished was simply to improve
navigation on the Waters in question so as to meet the wants
of the vast commerce passing and to pass over them. , Consequently the agents designated to perform the work ordered or
authorized by Congress had the right to proceed in all p~oper
ways without taking into account the injury that might possibly or indirectly result from such work to the right of access
.by riparian owners to navigability.
It follows from what has been said that the pier in question
was the property of the United States, and that when the defendant refused to plaintiff the privilege of using it as a wharf
or landing place he violated no right secured to the latter by
the Constitution.
We are of opinion that the court below correctly held that
the plaintiff hd no such right of property in the submerged
lands on which the pier in question rests as entitles him, under
the Constitution, to be compensated for any loss of access from
his upland to navigability resulting from the erection and maintenance of such pier by the United States in order to improve
and which manifestly did improve the navigation of a public
navigable water.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan is therefore

Afw~med.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER concurred in the result.
M . JUSTICE SHIR S, with whom concurred MR.
and M . JUSTICE PEoKHAm, dissenting.

JUSTICE GR&Y

Gilmore G. Scranton, the ,laintiff in error, derived-his title
to a tract of land, known as Private Land Claim No. 3, and
fronting on the St. Mary's River, a stream naturally navigable,
under a patent of the United States granted on October 6, 1874.
It must be regarded as the settled law of this court that grants

OCTO3ER TERM4, 1900.
JUSTICES SMMAs, GRAY and PECKHAM,

dissenting.

by Congress of portions of the public lands, bordering on or
bounded by navigable waters, convey, of their own force, no
title or right below high-water mark, but leave the question of
the use of the shores by the owners of uplands to the sovereign
control of each State, subject only to the rights vested by the
Constitution of the United States.
In Shively v. Bowiby, 152 U. S. 1, there was a controversy
between parties claiming under a patent of the United States
for a donation land claim bounded by the Columbia River, and
parties claiming under deeds from the State of Oregon for lands
between the lines of low and ordinary high tide of the Columbia River. It was held by the Supreme Court of Oregon, 22
Oregon, 427, that the lands in question, lying between the
uplands and the navigable channel of the Columbia River, belonged to the State of Oregon, and that its deed to such lands
conveyed a valid title.
The case was brought to this court, where the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Oregon was affirmed. -The opinion of
this court contains an elaborate review of the English authorities
expounding the common law, of decisions of the several States,
and of the previous decisions of this court. The conclusion
reached was that the title and rights of riparian or littoral proprietors in the soil below high-water mark are governed by the
local laws of the several States, subject, of course, to the rights
granted to the United States by the Constitution. The theory
on which Congress has acted in this matter was thus stated by
the court:

"The Congress of the United States, in disposing of the public lands, has constantly acted upon the theory that those lands,
whether in the interior, or on the coast, above high-water mark,
may be taken up by actual occupants, in order to encourage
the settlement of the country; but that the navigable waters
and the soils under them, whether within or above the ebb and
flow of the tide, shall be and remain public highways; and,
being chiefly valuable for the public purposes of commerce,
navigation and fishery, and for the improvements necessary to
secure and.promote those purposes, shall not be granted away
during the period of territorial government; but, unless in case

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
JUSTICES SHIBAS, GRAY and PEC

Am, dissenting,-

-

of some international duty-or public exigency, shall be held by
the United States in trust for the future States, and shall vest
in the several States, when organized and admitted into the
Union, with all the powers and prerogatives appertaining to
the older States in regard to such waters and soils within their
respective jurisdicti6ns ; in short, shall not be dispose of piecemeal to individuals as private property, but shall be held as a
whole for the purpose of being ultimately administered and
dealt with for the public benefit by the State, after it shall have
become a completely organized community."
The reasoning and conclusions of this case were followed and
applied in the subsequent cases of .Arann v." Tacoma Land Co.,
153 U. S. 273; St. Anthony .Fall8 Water Power Co. v. St. Paul
Water Commiwsioners, 168 U. S. 349; and .Aforri v. Urnited
States, 174 U. S.196.
It cannot be said that any title to the submerged land became vested in the plaintiff in error, as against the State or its
grantees, by reason of the fact that it is the law in Michigan,
in the case of lands abutting on navigable streams, titles to
which are derived from the State, that such titles extend to and
embrace submerged lands as far as the thread of the stream.
It has never been held in Michigan that that doctrine applied
to the case of titles derived from the United States.
1tively v. Bowlby, and rann v. Tacoma Land Comlpany,
above cited, were both cases in which it was held that titles derived under grants by the United States to lands abutting on
navigable waters did not avail as against the State and subsequent grantees.
It is not pretended that the State of Michigan ever made any
grant of these submerged lands to the plaintiff in error; but,
on the contrary, the State in 1881, transferred all its rights in.
the St. Mary's Canal and the public works thereon, with all its
appurtenances, to. the United States. Howell's Stat. sec. 5502.
This would seem to dispose of the claim to the land occupied
by the pier in the river in front of Private Land Claim No. 3.
And, indeed, the counsel for the plaintiff in error, in their briefs
filed of record in this court, conceded that, under the facts of
this case, compensation could not be demanded for the appro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SHrRAS, GRAY and PEO.HAm, dissenting.

priation of the submerged lands, and restricted their argument
to the question of the plaintiff's right of access to the navigable
stream bounding his property. But the opinion in this case,
while correctly stating that the question before us is as to the
right of the plaintiff in error to be indemnified for the total destruction of his access to the river, does not confine the discussion-to that question. Not regarding the fact that the plaintiff
in error has failed to show any title to the submerged land, and
that no such claim is urged on his behalf in this court, it is said
in the opinion that"The question before us does not depend upon the inquiry
whether the title to the submerged lands on which the New
South Pier rests is inthe State or in the riparian owner. It is
the settled rule in Michigan that ' the title of the riparian owner
extends to the middle line of the lake or stream of the inland
waters.'
Tebber v. Pere .farquet Boom Co., 6.2 Mich. 636,
and authorities there cited. But it is equally well settled in
that State that the rights of the riparian owner are subject to
the public easement or servitude of navigation. Lowman v.
Benson, 8 Mich. 18; Ryan v. Brown, 18 Mich. 195.
"So that whether the title to the submerged lands of navigable waters is in the State or in the riparian owners, such title
was taken subject to the rights which the public have in the
navigation of the waters in question. The primary use of the
waters and the lands under them is for purposes of navigation,
and the erection of piers in them to improve navigation for the
public is strictly consistent with such use, and infringes no right
of the riparian owner. Whatever the interest of a riparian
owner in the submerged lands in front of his upland, his title is
not as full and complete as his title acquired to fast land which
has no direct connection with the ilavigation of the river or
water on which it borders. It is not a title at his absolute disposal, but is to be held at all times subordinate to such use of
the submerged lands and of the waters flowing over them as is
consistent with or demanded by the public right of navigation.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff frankly states that compensation cannot be demanded for the appropriation of the submerged lands in question, and that the United States, under the

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
JusTicEs Sins,

GRAY and PEa0wA

, dissenting.

power to regulate commerce, has an unquestioned right to occupy
them for a lawful purpose and in a lawful manner. This must
be so--certainly in every case where the use of the submerged
lands is necessary for the improvement of navigation."
It is, I think, impossible to read this language, particularly
when read in connection with other passages in the opinion, without understanding it to assert that where the riparian owner has
a title to lands under navigable waters adjacent to his upland,
such land may be taken into the exclusive possession of the Government by the erection of a public work without compensation ;
and that, even if the state court should hold that the riparian
owner had a title to the submerged lands, and was entitled to be
compensated for their appropriation for a public purpose connected with navigation, it would be the duty of this court to
overrule such a decision.
As, for the reasons already mentioned, no such question is
now before us, and, therefore, those portions of the opinion of
the majority cannot justly be hereafter regarded as furnishing a
rule of decision in such a case, yet I must be permitted to disavow such a proposition.. When the case does arise, I incline
to think it can be shown, upon principle and authority, that
private property in submerged lands cannot be taken and exclusively occupied for a public purpose without just compensation. At all events, I submit that it will be in time to decide
so important a question when it necessarily arises, and when the
rights of the owner of the property have been asserted and defended in argument.
The real question then in this case is whether an owner of
laund abutting on a public navigable river, but whose title does
not, extend beyond the higt-water line, is entitled to compensation "because of the permanent and total obstruction of his
right of access to navigability resulting from the maintenance
of a pier constructed by the United States in the river opposite
such land for the purpose of improving navigation."
To answer such a question, the nature of the riparian right
of access must be first determined. That he has such a right
all must admit. But does his right constitute "private property" within the meaning of the Constitution, or is it in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and PECKHAM,

dissenting.

nature of a license, or prescription, of which he can be deprived
for the benefit of the public without being entitled to compensation?
The term "property," standing alone, includes everything
that is the subject of ownership. It is a nornen generalissimum,
extending to every species of valuable right and interest, including things real and personal, easements, franchises, and other
incorporeal hereditaments. Boston 1. R. Co. v. Salem, 2 Gray,
35; Shaw, 0. J.
"The term 'property,' as applied to lands, comprehends
every species of title inchoate or complete. It is supposed to
embrace those rights which lie in contract, those which are
executory, as well as those which are executed." Soulard et al.
v. United States, 4 Pet. 511; Marshall, 0. J.
Private property is that which is one's own; something that
belongs or inheres exclusively in an individual person.
The right which a riparian owner has in a navigable stream
when traveling upon it, or using it for the purpose of navigation,
must be distinguished from his right to reach navigable water
from his land and to reach his land from the water. The former
right is one which belongs to him as one of the public, and its
protection is found iAi indictments at the suit of the pubic(-sometimes, in special circumstances, in proceedings in equity for
the use of all concerned. Being a public right, compensation
.cannot be had by private parties for any injury affecting it. The
latter right is a private one, incident to the ownership of the
abutting property, in the enjoyment of which such owner is
entitled. to the protection of private remedies afforded by the
law against wrongdoers, and for which, if it is taken from him
for the benefit of the public, he is entitled to compensation.
This distinction has always been recognized by the English
courts.
,Rose v. G'oves, 5 M. & G. 613, was a case where an innkeeper
was held entitled to recover damages against a defendant for
wrongfully preventing the access of guests to his home situated
on the river Thames by placing timbers in the river opposite
the inn, and wherein, meeting the contention 'that the plaintiff
had no private right of action, but that his remedy was by pro-

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.

171

JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and PECvHAM, dissenting.

ceedings for a public nuisance, Chief Justice Tindal said: "This
is not an action for obstructing the river, but for obstructing

the access to the plaintiff's home on the river."
In !,yon v. FiAmonger8' Co., 1 App. Cas. 662, Lord Cairns
said:
"As I understand the judgment in Rose v. Groves; it went
not upon the ground of public nuisance, accompanied by particular damage to the plaintiff, but upon the :principle that a
private right of the plaintiff had been interfered with. The
plaintiff, an innkeeper on the banks of a navigable river, complained that the access of the public to his home was obstructed
by timber which the defendant had placed in the river; and it
would be the height of absurdity to say that a private right
was not interfered with, when a man who has been accustomed
to enter his home from a highway finds his doorway made impassable, so that he no longer has access to his house from the
public highway. This would equally be a private injury to
him, whethber the right of the public to pass and repass along the
highway were or were not at the same time interfered with.
Chief Justice Tindal, in Rose v. Groves, put the case distinctly
upon the footing of an infringement of a private right. He
says: ' A private right is set up on the part of the plaintiff, and
to that he complains that an injury has been done;' and then,
after stating the facts, adds: ' It appears to me, therefore, that
the plaintiff is not complaining of a public injury.'
Elsewhere, in the same case, Lord Cairns said:
"Independently of the authorities, it appears to me quite
clear, that the right of a man to step from his own land into a
highway is something quite different from the public right of
using the highway.
"Unquestionably the owner of a wharf*on the river bank
has, like every other subject of the realm, the right of navigating the river as one of the public. This, however, is not a right
owner or occupier of any lands on the bank;
coming to him 'Tua
he enjoys in a manner different
nor is it a right which er s8e
member
of
the
public.
from any other
"But when this right of navigation is connected with an exclusive access to and from a particular wharf, it assumes a very

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SHI.A1, GRAY and PEcKHAM, dissenting.

different character. It ceases to be a right held in common
with the rest of the public, for other members of the public
have no access to or from the river at the particular place, and
it becomes a form of enjoyment of the land, the disturbance of
which may be vindicated in damages by an action or restrained
by an injunction. It is, as was decided by the House of Lords
in the cases to which I have referred, a portion of the valuable
enjoyment of the land, and any work which takes it away is
field to be ' an injurious affecting of the land,' that is to say,
the occasioning to the land of an injuria,or an infringement
of right. The taking away of river frontage, interrupting the
access between the wharf and the river, may be an injury to
the public right of navigation, but it is not the less an injury to
the owner of the wharf, which, in the absence of parliamentary
authority, would be compensated by damages or altogether
prevented." 1 App. Cas. 671.
This distinction between the right of immediate access from
the abutter's property to and from a highway, whether a street
or a navigable stream, and an injury arising after he reaches it
and which is common to him and the rest of the public, is recognized by the courts of the States, and the former right is held.
to be a; valuable one, Which cannot be destroyed without cornpensation.
Thus, in Haskell v. New Bedford, 108 Mass. 208, it was held
that where a sewer constructed by the city of New Bedford discharged filth into the dock of the plaintiff obstructing his use
of it, it created a private nuisance to the plaintiff upon his own
land for which he could maintain an action for the special damages thereby occasioned to him, without regard to the question
whether it was also a iiuisance to the public, Mr. Justice Gray,
now a justice of this court, saying: "The plaintiffs title extended, by virtue of the statute of 1806, to the channel of the
river; and the filling up of the dock impaired his use and enjoyment of it for the purpose for which-it had been constructed
and actually used; and the injury thus done to him differed,
not only in degree but in kind, from the injury to the public by
interference with navigation. Neither this special injury to
him, nor that occasioned to his premises by making them offen-

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
JUSTICES SMMAS, GnAy and PEcHAm, dissenting.

sive and unhealthy was merged in the common nuisance"and citing, among other cpses, Ro8e v. Groves, one of the English cases above mentioned.
And in Brayton v. Fall River, 113 Mass. 218, itwas held
that while the owner of a wharf upon a tide-water creek cannot maintain an action for an illegal obstruction to the creek,
that being a common damage to all who use it, yet for an obstruction adjoining the wharf which prevents vessels from lyifig
in it in the accustomed manner, this being a particular damage,
he can maintain an action.
In Deaplainev. Chieago & N. W. Railway, 42 Wisconsin,
214, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin held that"While the riparian proprietor only takes to the water line,
it by no means follows, nor are we willing to admit, that he can
be deprived of his riparian rights without compensation. As
proprietor of the adjoining land, and as connected with it,
he has the right of exclusive access to and from the waters of
the lake at that particular place; he has the right to build piers
and wharves in front of his land out to navigable waters in kid
of navigation, not interfering with the public use. These are
private rights incident to the ownership Pf the shore, which-he
possesses distinct from the rest of the public.
"It is evident from the nature of the case that these rights of
user and of exclusion are connected with the land itself, grow
out of its location, and cannot be materially abridged or destroyed without inflicting an injury upon the owner which the
law should redress. It seems unnecessary to add the remark
that these riparian rights are not common to the citizens at
large, but exist as incidents to the right of the soil itself adjacent to the water. In other words, according to the uniform
doctrine of the best authority, the foundation of riparian rights,
ea vi termini, is the ownership of the bank or shore." "These
riparian rights are undoubted elements in the value of property
thus situated. If destroyed, can any one seriously claim that
the plaintiffs have not suffered a special damage in respect to
their property, different both in degree and kind from that sustained by the general public? It seems to-us not."
In Brkiane v. t. PauZ &c. Railroad,23 Minnesota, 114, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUsTIcEs Sn=As, GRAY and PECKHA,

dissenting.

was held by the Supreme Court of :Minnesota that the State
could not give a railroad company the right to occupy a riparian
front without making compensation for the injury to riparian
rights. The court, after citing cases in this court, said:
"According to the doctrine of these decisions the plaintiff
possessed the right to enjoy free communication between his
abutting premises and the navigable channel of the river, to
build and maintain, for his own and the public use, suitable
The rights which thus
landing places, wharves, etc... ..
belonged to him as -riparian owner of the abutting premises
were valuable property rights, of which he could not be divested,
without authority, except by due process of law, and, if for
public purposes, upon just compensation."
In The Indiana &c. Railway Co. v. Eberle, 110 Indiana,
445, the Supreme Court of Indiana said:
"Whatever may be the rule of decision elsewhere, nothing
is better settled in this State than that the owners of lots abutting on a street may have a peculiar and distinct interest in the
easement in the street in front of their lots. This interest includes the right to have the street kept open and free from any
obstruction which prevents or materially interferes with the
ordinary means of egress from and ingress to the lots. It is
distinguished from the interest of the general public, in that it
becomes a right appendant and legally adhering to the contiguous grounds and the improvements thereon as the owner may
have adapted them to the street. To the extent that the street
is a necessary and convenient means of access to the lot, it is as
much a valuable property right as the lot itself. It cannot,
therefore, be perverted from the uses to which it was originally
dedicated, nor devoted to uses inconsistent with street purposes,
without the abutting owner's consent, until due compensation
be first made according to law for any injury or damage which
may directly result from such interference."
This right of .the owner of a lot abutting on a street to free
,access to and frQm the street, which right is analogous to the
one we are here considering, has been frequently considered
by the state cofirts, and some of the conclusions reached are
thus stated in Dillon's Municipal Corporations, vol. 2, sec. 656,
(4th ed.):

SCRANTON v. WHEELER
JrSTICES SHImAS, GRAY and PEOKMA,

dissentifig.

"The full conception of the true nature of a public street in
a city, as respects the rights of the public on the one hand, and
the rights of the adjoining owner on the other, has been slowly
evolved from experience. It has been only at a recent period
that these two distinct rights have, separately and in their relations to each other, come to be understood and defined with
precision. The injustice to the abutting owner arising from the
exercise of unrestrained legislative power over streets in cities
was such that the abutter necessarily sought legal redress, and
the discussion thence ensuing led to a more careful ascertainment of the nature of streets, and of the rights of the adjoining
owner in respect thereof. It was seen that he had in common
with the rest'of the public a right of passage. But it was further seen that he had rights not shared by the public at large,
special and peculiar to himself, and which arose out of the very
relations of his lot to the street in front of it; and that these
rights, whether the bare fee of the streets was in the lot owner
or in the city, were rights of property, and as such ought to be
and were as sacred from legislative- invasion as his right to the
lot itself. In cities the abutting owner's property is essentially
dependent upon sewer, gas and water connections; for these
such owner has to pay or contribute out of his own purse. He
has also to pay or contribute towards the cost of sidewalks and
pavements. These expenditures, as well as the relation of his
lot to the street, give him a special interest in the street in front
of him, distinct from that of the public at large. He may make,
as of right, all proper uses of the street subject to the paramount
right of the public for all street uses proper, and subject also to
reasonable and proper municipal and police regulation. Such
rights, being property rights, are like other property rights under the protection of the Constitution."
The courts of New York, which formerly took another view,
now hold that right of access is a valuable property right and
entitled to constitutional protection as such. Seers v. Brook,lyn, 10 1 N. Y. 51 ; Langdn v. _ ew York, 93 X. Y. 129.
It is true that, in the later case of Sage v. The ".fayor,15.1
N. Y. 61, it was held that the riparian rights of the owner of
lots abutting on the Harlem River, a tidewater stream, are

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUTIoES SMRAS, GRAY and PEOKAI,

dissenting.

subordinate to the rights of the city of New York, under its
ancient charters supplemented by constitutional legislation and
state grants, to fill in and make improvements, such as an exterior street, docks and bulkheads, from the high-water mark
in front of his upland to and below low-water mark, essential
to navigation and commerce, without compensation. But the
opinion shows that the decision was put wholly upon the law
of the State of New York, as declared in the authorities cited.
Thus the language of Gerard in his work on Titles to Real Estate is adopted:
"It has been established in this State-New York-by judicial decision that the legislature of the State has an inherent
right to control and regulate the navigable wateis within the
State.

.

.

.

The individual right of the riparian owner was

considered -assubject to the right of the State to abridge or destroy it at pleasure by a construction or filling in beyond his
outer line, and that, too, without compensation made."
And again, the court says:
"In other States, some of the authorities are in accord, while
others are opposed to the rule adopted in this State. The want
*of harmony is probably owing to the difference in the rule as to
the ownership of the tideway, which is held in some jurisdictions to belong to the State, and in others to the riparian proprietors. This also accounts for the want of harmony in the
Federal courts, as they follow the courts of the State where the
case arose, unless some question arises under an act of Congress."
This case, therefore, musT be regarded as an adjudication that,
in the State of New York, the nature and extent of riparian
rights are to be determined by the law of the State, and that
the Federal courts, in passing upon such rights, follow that law.
In Barkus v. Detroit, 49 Michigan, 110, it was held by the
Supreme Court of Michigan, per Cooley, J., that "the better
and more substantial doctrine is that the land under the water
in front of a Hparian proprietor, though beyond the line of private ownership, cannot be taken and appropriated to a public
use by a railway company under its right of eminent domain
without making compensation to the riparian proprietor."

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and PcKHAm, dissenting.

Leaving the decisions of the state courts, let us turn to those
of this court, and I shall not consider it necessary to advert to
the earlier decisions, because they are referred to and considered
in the later ones.
Railroad Company v. Schumeir, 7 Wall. 272, was a case involving the right of the complainant, Schumeir, to enjoin the
St. Paul &c. R. R. Company from taking possession and building its railroad upon certain ground in the city of St. Paul, Minnesota, bordering on the Mississippi River, and lying between
lots of the complainant and that river. The railroad company
claimed to own the land in fee under a congressional land grant
of May 22, 1857. The Supreme Court of Minnesota held that
the complainant was entitled to a decree as prayed for; and
this court, on appeal, affirmed the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, holding that, under the case of Dutton v.
Strong, 1 Black, 23, although riparian owners are limited to the
stream, still they also have the same right to construct suitable
landings and wharves, for the eonvenience of commerce and
navigation, as is accorded riparian properties bordering on navigable waters affected by the ebb and flow of the tide; and,
speaking of the contention, on behalf of the railroad company,
that the complainant had dedicated the premises to the public
as a street, and had thus patted with his title to the same, this
court said:
"Suppose the construction of that provision, as assumed by
the respondents, is correct, it is no defense to the suit, because
it is nevertheless true, that the municipal corporation took the
title in trust, impliedly, if not exptessly, designated by the acts
of the party making the dedication. They could not, nor could
the State, convey to the respondents any right to disregard the
trust, or to appropriate the premises to any purpose which
would render valueless the adjoining real estate of the complainant."
In Yate8 v. itiwaukee,10 Wall. 497, on appeal from the Circuit Court of the District of Wisconsin, it was held that the
owner of land, bounded by a navigable river, has certain riparian rights, whether his title extend to the middle of the'stream
VOL. cLxx=-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SMRAS,

GRAY and PECKHAm, dissenting.

or not; that among these are free access to the navigable part
of the stream, and the right to make a landing, wharf or pier,
for his own use, or for the use of the public; that those rights
are valuable, and are property, and can be taken for the public
good only when due compensation is made. In the opinion, per
Miller, T., it was said:
"'Whether the title of the owner of such a lot extends beyond
the dry land or not, he is certainly entitled to the rights of a
riparian proprietor whose land is bounded by a navigable stream;
and among those rights are access to the navigable part of the
river from the front of his lot, the right to make a landing,
wharf or pier for his own use or for the use of the public, subject to such general rules and regulations as the legislature may
see proper to impose for the protection of the rights of the publie, whatever those may be. .
.
This riparian right is
property, and is valuable, and though it must be enjoyed in due
subjection to the rights of the public, it cannot be arbitrarily or
capriciously destroyed or impaired. It is'a right of which, when
once vested, the owner can only be deprived in accordance with
established law, and, if necessary that it be taken for the public
good, upon due compensation."
Accordingly this court reversed the decree of the Circuit
Court, and instructed it "to enter a decree enjoining the city
of Milwaukee, defendant below, from interfering with plaintiff's
wharf, reserving, however, the right of the city to remove or
change it so far as may be necessary in the actual improvement
of the navigability of the river, and upon due compensation
made."
The opinion in Yates v. .Milwaukee, like that of the majority
in the present case, may be liable to the criticism made upon it
in Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 36, as having gone too far in
saying that the owner of land adjoining any navigable water,
whether within or above the ebb and flow of the tide, has, independently of local law, a right of property in the soil below
high-water mark, 'and the right to build out wharves so far, at
least, as to reach water really navigable. But so corrected, it
is a direct authority for the proposition we are now considering,
namely, that riparian rights, when recognized as existing by

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and FEOKHA-m,

dissenting.

the law of the State, are a valuable property, and the subject
of compensation when taken for public use.
In the case of Weber v. Hfarbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 64,
it was said:
"It is unnecessary for the disposition of this case to question
the doctrine that a riparian proprietor, whose land is bounded
by a navigable stream, has the right of access to the navigable
part of the stream in front of his land, and to construct a wharf
or pier projecting into the stream for his own use, or the use of
others, subject to such general rules and regulations as the
legislatufe may prescribe for the protection of the public, as
was held in Yates v. 3ilwaukee. On .the contrary, we recognize the correctness of the doctrine as stated and affirmed in
that case."
In Potomac Steamoat Co. v. irpper Potomac 8tea-mboat Co.,
109 U. S. 682, Mr Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion of
this court, quoted with approval the definition of a riparian
owner and of his right of access to a navigable river .in front of
his lot, given by Mr. Justice Miller in Yates v. Milwaukee.
In Illinoi8 Central Railroad v. Blinois, 146 U. S. 445, this

court said: "The riparian proprietor is entitled, among other
rights, as held in Yates v. -Milwaakee,10 Wall. 497, to access
to the navigable part of the water on the front of which lies
his land, and for that purpose to make a landing, wharf or pier
for his own use or for the use of the public, subject to such general rules and regulations as the legislature may prescribe for
the protection of the public. In the case cited the court held
that this r.parian right was property and valuable; and though
it must be enjoyed in due subjbrition to the rights of the public,
it could not be arbitrarily or capriciously impaired."
In Eldridgev. Trezevant, 160 U. S. 452, it was again held by
this court, following H7ardin v. Jordan,140 U. S. 371, 384, and
Slively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.1, 58, that the nature and legal
incidents of land abutting on navigable streams were declared
by the law of the State wherein the land was situated. A bill
was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Louisiana by Eldridge, a citizen of Mississippi, against the board of engineers of the State of Louisiana

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SzImAs, GRAY and PEOEHAM, dissenting.

and one Trezevant, who had been employed by that board to
construct a public levee through a plantation belonging to the
complainant and situated in Carroll township, State of Louisiana, in pursuance of an act of the general assembly of the State.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and an appeal was taken
to this court. It appeared, and indeed was conceded by the
appellant, that under the law and constitution of the State, and
under French law existing before the transfer of the territory
to the United States, land for the construction of a public levee
on the Mississippi River could be taken, without codmpensation,
by reason of a servitude on such lands for such a purpose. But
it was contended on behalf of the appellant that, because he
was a citizen of another State, and because he derived his title
through a patent of the United States, that whatever may have
been the condition of the ancient grants, no such condition
attached to his ownership, and that the lands, bordering on a
navigable stream; were as much within the protection of the
constitutional principle awarding compehsation as other property.
After reviewing the provisions of the.constitution and laws
of the State and the decisions of the state court construing
them, and citing the Federal decisions, this court said:
"These decisions not only dispose of the proposition that
lands, situated within a State, but whose title is derived from
the United States, are entitled to be exempted from local regulations admitted to be applicable to lands held by grant from
the State, but also of the other proposition that the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment extend to and override public
rights, existing in the form of servitudes or easements, held by
the courts of a State to be valid under the constitution and laws
of such State.
"The subject-matter of such rights and regulations falls within
the control of the States, and the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States are satisfied if, in cases like the present one, the state law, with its benefits and obligations, is impartially administered. Walker v.
Sauvinet, 92 U. S.90; Davidson v. Hfew Orleans, 96 U. S.97;
XA.issouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22; fallingei v. Davi8, 146 U. S.

SCRANTON v. WHEELRR.
JUSTICEs SHIXAS, GRAY and PECKHAM, dissenting.

314. The plaintiff in error is, indeed, not a citizen of Louisiana,
but he concedes that, as respects his property in that State, he
has received the same measure of right as that awarded to its
citizens, and we are unable to see, in the light of the Federal
Constitution, that he has been deprived of his property without
due process of law, or been denied the equal protection of the
laws."

The case of Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S.269, is cited
and relied on in the majority opinion. In that case the owner
of a farm fronting on the Ohio River filed a petition in the
Court of Claims complaining of the construction by the United
States of a dike in the bed of the river, and which the plaintiff
alleged to interfere with her landing. The principal finding of
the Court of Claims was as follows:
"Claimant's access to the navigable portion of the stream was
not entirely cut off; at a 9-foot stage of the water, which frequently occurs during November, December, March, April and
May, she could get into her dock in any manner; that from a
3-foot stage she could.communicate with the navigable channel
through the chute; that at any time she could haul out to the
channel by wagon."
The only injury suffered, therefore, by the plaintiff was the
inconvenience of having to haul her produce by wagon over and
acrbss the dike in such portions of the year when the water was
below a 3-foot stage, and when, at that part of the Ohio River,
navigation was almost wholly suspended. At other times, and
when the stage of the water permitted navigation, the plaintiff
had the use of her dock. The Court of Claims dismissed the
petition, and its decree was affirmed by this court. There was
no pretense that the dike in question touched the plaintifs
land at any point.
The Chief Justice, in the opinion, put the judgment chiefly
on the decisions of the state court. He said: "By the estabIished law of Pennsylvania, as observed by Mr. Justice Gray in
Shively v. BowZby, ' the owner of lands bounded by navigable
water has the title in the soil between high and low-water
mark, subject to the public right of navigation and the authority
of the legislature to make public improvements upon it, and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SuImAS, GRAY and PECXHA-&,

dissenting.

regulate his use of it.'" And after citing several Pennsylvania
cases, the Chief Justice concluded his opinion by saying: "In
short, the damage resulting from the prosecution of the improvement of a navigable highway, for the public good, was not the
result of a taking of the appellant's property, and .was merely
incidental to the exercise of a servitude to which her property
had always been subject." It is obvious, therefore, that in this
case the court applied the doctrine of Eldridgev. Trezevant,
which was cited in the opinion, and that the servitude to which
the plaintiff's lands were said to be subject was a servitude
existing under the state law, and not a servitude created by
Federal law.
In the States which originally formed this Union, or in those
admitted since, it has never been held that the United States,
through any of their departments, could impose servitudes upon
the lands owned by the States or by their grantees. The cases
are all the other way. _Sew Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet.
662, 736; Pollard v. Ragan, 3 How. 212; Bainey .,r. JKoekuk,
94 U. S. 324; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 111 U. S. 151, 168;
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1.
In the recent case of Morris v. United States, 114 U. S. 196,
the question of the nature and extent of riparian rights on the
Potomac River in front of the city of Washington was involved.
The majority of the court held that, under the evidence, the
title of the owners of lots in the city plans were bounded by
Water Street, and that, therefore, such owners possessed no riparian rights entitled to compensation by the United States in
carrying out a scheme of improvement of the waters of the
river.
The opinion of the court proceeded on the assumption, as
matter of law, that owners of land abutting on the river would
be possessed of riparian rights, and entitled, therefore, to compensation, if such rights were impaired or destroyed by the -nprovements proposed by the Government, but held, as a conclusion from the evidence, that, as matter of fact, the owners
of lots under the city plans did not have titles extending to the
river, but that their lots were bounded by Water Street, the title to which was in the city, and tMerefore ne compensation for

SCRANTON v. WBEELER.
JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and PEOXHAM, dissenting.

exclusion from the river could be enforced. The case, therefore, may be properly regarded as an authority for the proposition that the owners of lots abutting on a navigable river
are entitled to compensation if their riparian right of access is
taken from them by improvements made. by the Government
to promote the navigability of the Potomac River. The long
investigation by court and counsel was, indeed, labor in vain if,
at last, riparian rights possessed by the lot owners, should be
decided not to be private property within the protection of the
Constitution.
If, then, by the law of the State in which the land is situated,
the right of access to navigable streams is one of the incidents
of abutting land, if such rights are held to be property and valuable as such, can the United States, under the incidental power
arising out of their jurisdiction over interstate commerce, destroy such right of access without making compensation? I
think that this question may well be answered in the words of
Gould in his work on Waters. (2d ed.), see. 151: "When it is
conceded that riparian rights are property, the question as to
the right to take them away without compensation would appear to be at an end."
The argument against the right of compensation in such a
case seems to be based upon an assumption that because the
Government has the power to make improvements in navigable
waters, it follows that it can do so without making compensation to the owners of private property destroyed- by the improvements. But this assumption is, as I think, entirely without foundation, and, if permitted by the courts to be made
practically applicable, would amount to a disregard of the express mandate of the Constitution that private property shall
not be taken for public uses without just compensation.
"The power to establish post offices and to create courts
within the States was conferred upon the Federal Government,
and included in it was authority to obtain sites for such offices
and for court houses, and to obtain them by such means as
were known and appropriate. The right of eminent domain
was one of those means well known when the Constitution was
adopted, and employed to obtain land for public uses. Its exist-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SHIAs, GRAY and PECKHAm, dissenting.

ence, therefore, in the grantee of that power ought not to be
questioned. The Constitution itself contains an implied recognition of it beyond what may justly be implied from the express grants. The Fifth Amendment contains a provision that
private property shall not be taken for public use without just
compensation. What is that but an implied assertion, that, on
making just compensation, it may be taken?" Eoh v. United
States, 91 U. S. 367, 374.

Accordingly in that case, a proceeding instituted by the
United States .to appropriate a parcel of land in the city of
,Cincinnati as'a site for a post office and other public uses, was
upheld, but those proceedings contemplated compensation, and
Congress, in the act authorizing the proceedings, appropriated
money for the purpose.
Now if, in order to render valid an appropriation of private
property for the use of the Government in the erection of post
offices and court houses compensation must be made, what is
the difference in principle if the Government is appropriating
private property for the purpose of improving the navigation
of a navigable stream? This question has been already put and
answered by this court in Monongahela Navigation Company
v. United ttes, 148 U. S. 312, where it was said:
"It cannot be doubted that Congress has the power in its
discretion to compel the removal of this look and dam as obstructions to the navigation of the river, or to condemn and
take them for the purpose of promoting its navigability. In
other words, it is within the competency of Congress to make
-such provision respecting the improvement of the Monongahela
River as in its judgment the public interests demand. Its dominion is supreme.
"But like other powers granted to Congress by the Constitution, the power to regulate commerce is subject to all the
limitations imposed by such instrument, and among them is
that of the Fifth Amendment we have heretofore quoted. Congress has supreme control over the regulation of commerce, but
if, in exercising that supreme control, it deems it necessary to
take private property, then it must proceed subject to the limi-

SCRANTON v. WHEELER
JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and PECK-.AM, dissenting.

tations imposed by this Fifth Amendment, and can take only
oh payment of just compensation."
"The power to regulate commerce is not given in any broader
terms than that to establish post offices and post roads; but if
Congress wishes to take private property upon which to build a
post office, it must either agree upon thle price with the owner,
or in condemnation pay just compensation therefor.
And that which is true in respect to a condemnation of property for a post office is equally true when condemnation is
sought for the purpose of improving a natural highway."
As already remarked, the power of the Government to control and regulate navigable streams and to carry into effect
schemes for their improvement, is not directly given by the Constitution, but is only recognized by the courts as an incident to
the power expressly given to regulate commerce between the
States and with foreign nations.
Now, if it be held that Congress has power to take or destroy
private property, lying under or adjacent to navigable streams,
without compensating their owners, because it is done in the
exercise'of the power to regulate commerce, then it must follow
that the same unlimited power can be exercised with respect to
private property not in nor bounded by water. The power of
Congress to regulate commerce is not restricted to commerce
carried on in lakes and rivers, but equally extends to commerce
carried on by land. If Congress, yielding to a loud and increasing popular demand that it should take possession and control of the railroads of the country, or should undertake the
construction of new railroads as arteries of commerce, this novel
notion, that the existence of the right to regulate commerce
creates of itself and independently of the law of the State a
Federal servitude on all property to be. affected by the exercise
of that right, would apply to all kinds of private property
wherever situated.
But it may be asked why, if the question as to riparian rights
is one of state law, the decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan in the presentcase, denying the claim of the abutting owner
for compensation for the loss of his access to the river, is not
conclusiveI

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES SHIRAS, GRAY and P.EcKHA,

dissenting.

The answer to this question will be found in the opinion of
that court. Instead of ascertaining and applying, or professing
.toapply, the law of the State in respect to riparian rights, the
Supreme Court of Michigan treated the question as one under
Federal law, and, following what it understood to be the doctrine laid down by several Federal Circuit Court decisions as
obligatory, held that it was competent for the Government of
the United States, in the exercise of its power to regulate commerce between the States, to deprive abutting owners of their
right of access to navigable streams, without compensating them
for their loss. The cases so relied on were Stockton v. Baltimore &c .Y. R. 1. 6o., 32 Fed. Rep. 9; Hawkins PointLighthouse Case, 39 Fed. Rep. 7; and Scranton v. Wheeler, 57 Fed.
Rep. 803.
The first of these cases arose on a bill filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey by
the attorney general of New Jersey, seeking to restrain the
Baltimore and New. York Railroad Company, acting under
congressional authority, from occupying without compensation
land belonging to the State of New Jersey, lying under tidewaters, by the pier of a bridge. Mr. Justice Bradley, refusing
the injunction, said:
"The character-of the state's ownership of the land under
water-an ownership held, not for the purpose of emolument,
but for public use, especially the public use of navigation and
commerce-the question arises whether it is a kind of property
susceptible of pecuniary compensation within the meaning of
the Constitution. The Fifth Amendment provides only that
private property shall not be taken without compensation, making no reference to public property. But if the phrase may
have'an application broad enough to include all property and
ownership, the question would still arise whether the appropriation of a few square feet of the river bottom to the foundation
of a bridge, which is to be used for the transportation of an extensive commerce in aid and relief of that afforded by the
waterway, is at all a diversion of the property from its original
use."

Mr. Justice Bradley was himself a New Jersey lawyer, and

SCRANTON Y. WHEELER.
JUsTIcES SHIBAS, GRAY and PEOHHAM, dissenting.

availed himself, in that case, of the law of that State, which has
always been to the effect that the land underlying the tide
waters belonged to the State, and was held for a public use.
His view was that as, under the law of New Jersey, the land
beneath tide waters was held by the State for public uses, such
land was notprivateproperty within the meahing of the Constitution, or that, at all events, its occupation, to a limited extent, by the pier of a bridge intended to promote commerce, was
not a diversion of the property from its original use.
It needs no argument to show that such a decision is not applicable to the present case. Indeed, it is plain that if the case
had been one involving the right of an abutter to access to the
tide water, the same being, under the laws of the State, private
property, the decision of that learned justice would have been
very different. He was the organ of this court in pronouncing
the opinion in Barney v. KYeouk, 94 U. S. 324, where the question was whether the title of riparian proprietors on the banks
of the Mississippi extended to ordinary high-water mark or to
the shore between high and low-water mark, and said:
"In our view of the subject the correct principles were laid
down in .Xartin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367; Pollard's Lessee
v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; and Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 How. 471.
These cases related to tidewater, it is true; but they enunciate
principles which are equally applicable to all navigable waters.
And since this court, in the case of The Genessee Chief,12 How.
443, has declared that the Great Lakes and other navigable
waters of the country, above as well as below the flow of the
tide, are, in the strictest sense, entitled to the denomination of
navigable waters, and amenable to the admiralty jurisdiction,
there seems to be no sound reason for adhering to the, old rule
as to the proprietorship of the beds and shores of such waters.
It properly belongs to the States by their inherent sovereignty,
and the United States has wisely abstained from extending (if
it could extend) its survey and grants beyond the limits of high
water. The cases in which this court has seemed to hold a contrary view depended, .as most cases must depend, on the local
laws of the States in which the lands are situated. In Iowa, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTicEs Sm=A,

GnAiY and PEcKHAx, dissenting.

before stated, the more correct rule seems to have been adopted
after a most elaborate investigation of the subject."
Whether the distinction suggested by Mr. Justice Bradley,
between property held by the State for public purposes and
private property, be or be not sound, the doctrine has no application to the present case, and, as the Circuit Court case was
not brought for review to this court, the suggestion remains
unadjudged.
The so-called Hawkins Point Lighthouse case was an ejectment brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland to recover possession of the land covered
by a lighthouse erected on land lying under the waters of a
tidewater navigable river, by the Lighthouse Board in pursuance of acts of Congress. The plaintiff claimed to be the
owner of the submerged land, and the action did not involve
the question of access to the river. Judge Morris held that the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover; and, although stating that
"the Court of Appeals of Maryland, whenever called upon to
declard the nature of the title of the State and its grantees in
the land at the bottom of'navigable streams, has uniformly
held that the soil below high-water mark was as much part of
the jus publicum as the stream itself," extended Mr. Justice
Bradley's suggestion in the New Jersey case, and declared that
the plaintiff, as grantee of the State, had no private property in
'the submerged land entitled to constitutional protection. As
the structure was a lighthouse, the case might have been governed by peculiar considerations, but the learned judge of the
Circuit Court seems to have gone further, and to have held that,
as a matter of Federal law, "In the hands of the State or of
the State's grantees the bed of a navigable river remains subject to an easement of navigation, which the General Government can lawfully enforce, improve and protect, and that it is
by no means true that any dealing with a navigable stream
which impairs the value of the rights of riparian owners gives
them a claim to compensation." If, by this is meant that riparian owners may be deprived, without compensation, of access to navigable streams abutting on their land by reason of
a supposed servitude or easement imposed by the power granted

SCRANTON v. WHEELER.
JUSTICES SinRAs, GnAx and PEoxa.kM, dissenting.

to Congress by the Constitution to regulate commerce, then,
for the reasons heretofore given and under the authorities cited,
such a view cannot be sustained. The case under the name of
Hill v. United States, was brought to this court, but the -writ
of error was dismissed on an independent ground, which rendered it unnecessary for this court to pass upon the questions
ruled in the court below. That the question of the right of the
plaintiff to be compensated for deprivation of his riparian rights
was not considered, and, indeed, could not be, as it was held
that neither the Circuit Court nor this court had jurisdiction.
Hill v. United States, 149 U. S.593.
Yet this was the case which the Supreme Court of Michigan
said in their opinion "appeared to be exactly in point and to
rule the present case."
The only other case relied on by the Supreme Court of Michigan was Scranton v. Wheeler, 57 Fed. Rep. 803; 16 U. S. App.
152, being this identical case, which had been removed from
the state to the Federal court. Itwas subsequently brought
to this court, but was dismissed because the record did not show
that a Federal question had been raised or presented in the
plaintiff's statement of his case in the state court. Accordingly
the cause was remanded to the state court- and subiequently
reached this court by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Michigan. While the case was in-the Circuit Court of Appeals
an opinion was filed by Circuit Judge Lurton, in which, without adverting to the law of the StAte of Michigan, or citing
any decisions of the Supreme Court of that State, in respect to
riparian 'rights, he held that the right of the plaintiff of access
to the navigable water was subordinate to the power of the
Federal Government to control the stream for the purposes of
commerce, and-that the plaintiff was therefore not entitled to.
compensation for the extinction of his right.
The proposition, frequently made, that the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, and therefore navigation,
is _paramount, can properly be understood to mean only that,
as-between the authority of the States in such matters andthat
of the General Government, the latter is superior. It has no
just reference to questions concerning private property lying

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIcEs SHIRAs, GRAY and PECKHAM, dissenting.

within the States. Much less can it be rightly used to signify
that such power can be exercised by Congress without regard
to the right of just compensation when private property is taken
for public use.
The suggestion that "the riparian owner acquired the right
of access to navigability subject to the possibility that such right
might become valueless in consequence of the erection under
competent authority of structures on the submerged lands in
front of his property, for the purpose of improving navigation," would seem to be irrelevant, because the liability that his
private property may at all times be taken for public uses is
known to every one. But hitherto it has not been supposed
that the knowledge of such liability deprives the owner of the
right of compensation when his property is actually so taken.
Nor can, the statement that, in the opinion of this court, "it
was not intended by the framers of the Constitution that the
paramount authority of Congress to improve the navigation of
the public navigable waters of the United States should be crippled by compelling the Government to make compensation for
the injury to a riparian owner's right of access to navigability
that might incidentally result from an improvement," be admitted. 'The intention of the framers is seen in the provisions
of the Constitution, and in them the right to take private property for public uses is indissolubly connected with the duty to
make just compensation. It cannot be supposed that a recognition of such a duty would cripple the Government in the just
exercise of the power it incidentally possesses to regulate interstate navigation.
As, then, the Supreme Court of Michigan considered the question solely as a Federal one, in which it supposed it was controlled by the Federal cases cited, this court has jurisdiction to
review its judgment; and as by that judgment the plaintiff in
error has been refused the protection of the Constitution of the
United States claimed by him, I think the judgment should be
reversed and the cause re.manded to be proceeded in according
to law.

