AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNTESSEE.
No. 25. Argued November 9, 10, 1899.-Decided November 19, 1900.

Tobacco being a legitimate article of commerce, the court cannot take
judicial notice of the fact that it is more noxious in the form of cigarettes than in any other. It is, however, to the same extent as intoxicating liquors, within the police power of the State.
It is within the province of the legislature to declare how far cigarettes
may be sold, or to prohibit their sale entirely, after they have been taken
from the original packages or have left the hands bf the importer, provided no discrimination be used as against those imported from other
States, and there be no reason to doubt that the act in question is designed
for the protection of the public health.
Original packages are such as are used in bona fide transactions carried on
between the manufacturer and wholesale dealers residing in different
States. Where the size of the package is such as to indicate that it was
prepared for the purpose of evading the law of. the State to which it is
sent, it will not be protected as an original package against the police
laws .of that State.
Where cigarettes were imported in paper packages of three inches in length
and one and one half in width, containing ten cigarettes, unboxed but
thrown loosely into baskets: held, that such paper parcels were not original packages within.the meaning of the law, and that such importations
were evidently made for the purpose of evading the law of the State prohibiting the sale of cigarettes.

THms was a writ of error to review the conviction of Austin
for the sale of cigarettes in violation of an act of the General
Assembly of Tennessee, (chap. 30, Acts of 1897,) the material
portion of which reads as follows:
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Tennessee, That it shall be a misdemeanor for any person, firm
or corporation to sell, offer to sell, or to bring into the State
for the purpose of selling, giving away, or otherwise disposing
of, any cigarettes, cigarette paper, or substitute for the same;
and a violation of any of the provisions of this act shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars."
Defendant was convicted in the Circuit Court of Monroe

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

County; fined fifty dollars and committed until the fine should
be paid; and upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee
the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed. 101 Tenn. 563.
Mr. W. IT. _Fuller and .A-'. John G. Johnson for plaintiff in
error. Xr. J Parkerwas on their brief.
Mr. G. W. Pickle for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCE- Bnowx

delivered the opinion of the bourt.

It is charged that the act in question, in its application to the
facts of this case, is an infringement upon the exclusive power
of Congress to rbgulate commerce between the States. This is
the sole question presented for our determination.
We are not disposed to question the general principle that
the States cannot, under the guise of inspection or revenue laws,
forbid or impede the introduction of products, and more particularly of food products, universally recognized as harmless,
Afinnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138
U. S. 78, or otherwise burden foreign or interstate commerce
by regulations adopted under the assumed police power of the
State, but obviously for the purpose of taxing such commerce
or creating discriminations in favor of home producers or manufacturers. Tie Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283; ITelton v. X,issouri, 91 U. S. 275; hlenderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259;
Railroad Co. v. _ussvn2, 95 U. S. 465; Guy v. Baltimore, 100
U. S. 434; Ward v. faryland, 12 Wall. 418; People v. Co7r.pagnie Gen. Transatlantique,107 U. S. 59. In this connection
we indorse fully what was said by this court in Zugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623, 661: "If, therefore, a statute purporting to have
been enacted to protect the public health, the public morals or
the public safety has no real or substantial relation to those
objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to so adjudge, and
thereby to give effect to the Constitution."
The Supreme. Court of Tennessee placed its decision of this
case upon two grounds: First, that cigarettes were not legiti-

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

mate articles of commerce; second, that the sale shown to have
been made was not the sale of an original package in the true
commercial sense.
1. We are not prepared to fully indorse the opinion of that
court upon the first point. Whatever product has from time
immemorial been recognized by custom or law as a fit subject
for barter or sale, particularly if its manufacture has been made
the subject of Federal regulation and taxation, must, we think,
be recognized as a legitimate articie of commerce although it
may to a certain extent be within the police power of the States.
Of this class of cases is tobacco. Frbm the first settlement of
the colony of Virgihia to the present day tobacco has been one
of the most profitable and impot'tant products of agriculture
and commerce, and while its effects may be injurious to some,
its extensive use over practically the entire globe iq a remarkable
tribute to its popularity and value. We are clearly of opinion
that it cannot be classed with diseased cattle or meats, decayed
fruit or other articles, the use of which is a menace to the health
of the entiie community. Congress, too, has recognized tobacco
in its various formsas a legitimate article of commerce by requiring licenses to be taken for its manufacture and sale, imposing a revenue tax upon each package of cigarettes put upon
the market, and by making express regulations for their manufacture and sale, their exportation and importation. Cigarettes
are but one of the numerous manufactures of tobacco, and we
cannot take judicial notice of the fact that it is more noxious
in this form than in any other. Whatever might be our individual views as to its deleterious tendencies, we cannot hold
that any article which Congress recognizes in so many ways is
not a legitimate article of commerce. The language of Chief
Justice Taney in the License Cases, 5 How. 504, with reference
to intoxicating liquors is so pertinent to this case that it deserves to be here repeated:
"But spirits and distilled liquors are universally admitted to
be subject of ownership and property, and are therefore subjects of exchange, barter and traffic, like any other commodity
in which a right of property exists. And Congress, under its
general power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, may

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court..

prescribe what article of merchandise shall be admitted and
what excluded; and may, therefore, admit or not, as it shall
deem best, the iiportation of aident spirits. And inasmuch
as the laws of Congress authorize their importation, no State
has a right to prohibit their introduction."
"But I do not understand the law of Massachusetts or Rhode
Island as interfering with the trade in ardent spirits while the
article remains a part of foreign commerce, and is in the hands
of the importer for sale, in the cask or vessel in which the laws
of Congress authorize it to be imported. These state laws act
altogether upon the retail or domestic traffic within their respective borders. They act upon the article after it has passed
the line of foreign commerce, and become a part of the general
mass of property in the State. These laws may, indeed, discourage imports, and diminish the price which ardent spirits
would otherwise bring. But although a State is bound to receive and to permit the sale by the importer of any article of
merchandise which Congress authorizes to be imported, it is
not bound to furnish a market for it, nor to abstain from the
passage of any law which .it may deem necessary or advisable
to guard the health or morals of its citizens, although such law
may discourage importatioti, or diminish the profits, of the importer, or lessen the revenue of the general government. And
if any State deems the retail and internal traffic in ardent spirits
injurious to its citizens, and calculated to produce idleness, vice
or debauchery, I see nothing in the Constitution of the United
States to prevent it from restraining the traffic, or from prohibiting it altogether, if it thinks proper."
The same ruling with regard to the power of the States to
prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors was made in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, in which it was held the right to
sell'such liquors was not a privilege or immunity which, by the
Fourteenth Amendment, the States were forbidden to abridge.
And in the later case of Beer Co. v. A-assachusetts, 97 U. S. 25,
it was held that a company chartered "for the purpose of manufacturing malt liquors in all their varieties" held its franchise
subject to the police power of the State, and that, if the public
safety or public morals required the discontinuance of such

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

manufactures, the. legislature might so provide, notwithstanding individuals and corporations might thereby suffer inconvenience. In Mugler v. Kansas, 123 IT. S. 623, and Zdd v.
Pearson,128 U. S.1, the principle of this case Was extended so
far as to hold that such laws might be enforced against persons
who, at the time, happened to own property whose chief value
consisted in its fitness for manufacturing intoxicating liquors,
without compensating them for the diminution in value resulting from such prohibitory enactments; and in Foster v. Kan8a8, 112 U. S. 201, it was regarded as the settled doctrine of this
court that such laws, prohibiting the sale and manufacture of
intoxicating liquors, were not repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States.
How far such laws could be made applicable to articles admitted to be innocuous has never been decided by this court.
Nor is it necessary to the decision of this case. It was held,
however, in Powell v. Penn-sylvania, 12T U. S.678, that a statutb of Pennsylvania prohibiting the manufacture or sale of
oleomargarine was a lawful exercise by the State of its power
to protect by police regulations the public"health, and that it
neither denied to persons within the jurisdiction of the State
the equal protection of the laws, nor deprived them of their
property without compensation, and was not otherwise repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. Said Mr. Justice Harlan:
"It [this court] cannot adjudge that thedefendant's rights of
liberty and property, as thus defined, have been infringed by
the statute of Pennsylvania, without holding that, although it
may have been enacted in good faith for the objects expressed
in its title, namely, to protect the public health and to prevent
the adulteration of dairy products and fraud in the sale thereof,
it has, in fact, no real or substantial relation to these objects,
The court is unable to affirm that this legislation has no real or
substantial relation to such objects." So, too, in Plumley v.
.as8achisetts, 155 U. S.461, a statute of Massachusetts prohibiting the sale of oleomargarine artificially colored so as to cause
it to look like yellow butter, and so brought into the State, was
decided not to be in conflict with the commerce clause of the
Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

These cases recognize -the fact that intoxicating liquors belong to a class of commodities which, in the opinion of a great
many estimable people, are'deleterious in their effects, demoralizing in their tendencies, and often fatal in their excessive indulgence; and that, while their employment as a medicine may
,sometimes be beneficial, their habitual and constant use as a
beverage, whatever it may be to individuals', is injurious to thecommunity. *It may be that their evil effects have been exaggerated, -and that, though their use is usually attended with
more or less danger, it is by no means open to universal condemnation. It is, however; within the power of each State to
investigate the subject and to determine its policy in that particular. If the legislative body come deliberately to the conclusion that a due regard for the public safety and morals requires a suppression of the liquor traffic, there is nothing in the
commercial clause of the Constitution, or in the Fourteenth
Amendment to that instrument, to forbid its doing so. While,
perhaps, it may not wholly prohibit the use or sale of them for
medicinal purposes, it may hedge about their use as a general
beverage such restrictions as it pleases. Nor can we deny to
the legislature the power to 'impose restrictions upon the sale
of noxious or poisonous drfigs, such as opium and other similar
articles, extremely valuable as medicines, but equally baneful
to the habitual user.
Cigarettes do not seem until recently to have attracted the
attention of the public as more injurious than other forms of
tobacco; nor are we now prepared to take judicial notice of
any special injury resulting from their use or to indorse the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee that "they are inherently bad and bad only." At the same time we should be.
shutting our eyes to what is constantly passing before them
were we to affect an ignorance of the fact that a belief in their
deleterious effects, particularly upon young people, has become
very general, and that communications are constantly'finding
their way'into the public ptess denouncing their use as fraught
*with great danger to the youth of both sexes. Without undertaking to affirm or deny their evil effects, we think it within
the province of the legislature to say how.far they may be sold,

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

or to prohibit their sale entirely, after they have- been takeff
from ihe original packages or have left the hands of the importer, provided fio discrimination be used as against such as are
imported from other States, and there be no reason to doubt
that the act in question is designed for the protection of the
public .health.
We have had repeated occasion to hold, where state legislation has been attacked as violative either of the power of Congress over interstate commerce, or of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution, that, if the action of the state legislature
were a bona jide exercise of its police power, and dictated by
a genuine regard for the preservation of the public health or
safety, such legislation would be respected, though it might interfere indirectly with interstate commerce. While, as was
said in olde& v. Htardy, 169 U. S. 366, 392, "the police power
cannot be put forward as an excuse for oppressive and unjust,
legislation, it may be lawfully resorted to for the purpose of
preserving the publid health, safety or morals, or the abatement
of public nuisances, and a large discretion is necessarily vested
in the legislature to determine, not only what the interests of
the public require, but what means are necessary for the protection of such interests." Thus, while in Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, it was held that a statute of Missouri, prohibiting the driving or bringing of any Texas, Mexican or Indian
cattle into the State, was in conflict with the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution, it was subsequently held that
the introduction of diseased cattle might be prohibited altogether, or subjected to such regulations as the legislature chose
to impose. .Missouri,.ansas & Texas Railway v. Haber, 169
U. S. 613. So, too, although it was held in .arbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27, and in Soon Jing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, that
a municipal ordinance prohibiting laundry work within certain
territorial limits and within certain hours was purely a police
regulation, such an ordinance was void, if it conferred upon the
municipal authorities arbitrary power at their own will and
without regard to discretion in the legal sense of the term, to
give or withhold consent as-to persons or places, without regard
to the competency of the persons applying, or the propriety of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the place selected for carrying on business. Yick W v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356. In delivering the opinion Mr. Justice Matthews observed: "Though the law itself be fair on its face and
impartial in appearance, yet if it is applied and administered
by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal hand, so
as practically to make unjust and illegal discriminations between
persons in similar circumstances, material to their rights, the
denial of equal justice is still within the prohibition of 'the Constitution."
We are therefore of opinion that although the State of Tennessee may not wholly interdict commerce in cigarettes it is not,
in the language of Chief Justice Taney in the License Cases,
"bound to furnish a market for it, [them] nor to abstain from
the passage of any law which it may deem necessary or adisable to guard the health or morals of its citizens, although such
law may discourage importation, or diminish the profits of the
importer, or lessen the revenue of the General Government."
2. There is no reason to doubt the good faith-of the legislature of Tennessee in prohibiting the sale of cigarettes as a sanitary measure, and if it be inoperative as applied to sales by the
owner in the original packages, of cigarettes manufactured in
and brought from another State, we are remitted to the inquiry
whether a paper package of three inches in length and one and
a half inches in width, containing ten cigarettes, is an original
package protected by the Constitution of the United States
against any interference by the State while in the hands of the
importer? This we regard as the vital question in the .case.
The whole law upon the subject of original packages is based
upon a decision of this court, in Brown v. .aryland, 12 Wheat.
419, in which a statute of Maryland, requiring all importers of
-foreignarticles, "by bale or package," or of intoxicating liquors,
and other persons selling the same, "by wholesale, bale or package, hogshead, barrel or tierce," to take out a license, was held
to be repugnant to that provision of the Constitution forbidding
States from laying a duty upon imports, as well as to that declaring that Congress should have power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations. There was thought to be no difference
between a power to prohibit the sale of an article while it was

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

an import and the power to prohibit its introduction into the
country. The one would be the necessary consequence of the
other. No goods would be imported if none could be sold.
But, in delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall observed: "It is sufficient for the present to say, generally, that when the importer has so acted upon the thing imported, that it has become incorporated and mixed up with the
mass of property in the country, it has perhaps lost its distinctive
character as an import, and has become subject to the taxing
power of the State; but while remaining the property of the
importer, in his warehouse, in th6 original form or package in
which it was imported, a tax upon it is too plainly a duty on
imports to escape the prohibition in the Constitution." This
sentence contains in a nutshell the whole doctrine upon the
subject of original packages, upon which so formidable a structure has been attempted to be erected in subsequent cases.
Whether the decision would have been the same if the original
packages in that case, instead of being bales of dry goods or
hogsheads, barrels or tierces of liquors, had been so minute in
size as to permit of their sale directly to consumers, may admit
of considerable doubt. Obviously the doctrine of the case is
directly applicable only to those large packages in which from
time immemorial it has been customary to import goods from
foreign countries. It is safe to assume that it did not occur to
the Chief Justice that, by a skilful alteration of the size of the
packages, the decision might be used to force upon a reluctant
people the use of articles denounced as noxious by the legislatures of the several States.
A casual remark, however, made by Chief Justice Marshall
in that case, that "we suppose the principles laid down in this
case to apply equally to importations from a sister State" was
subsequently considered in T'roodruf v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123,
and was held to have no application to commerce between the
States, the court deciding that the term "import," as used in
that clause, which declares that "no State shall levy any imposts or duties on imports or exports,"' did not refer to articles
imported from one State into another, but only to articles
imported from foreign countries into the United States. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

that case an ordinance of the city of. Mobile, authorizing a tax
upon sales at auctions, was held to be applicable to products of
States other than Alabama, although the articles were sold in
the original and unbroken packages.
The principle of this case was subsequently applied in Brown
v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, in which it was held that coal mined
in Pennsylvania and sent by water to New Orleans to be sold
in open market there on account of the owners in Pennsylvania,
became intermingled, on arrival there, with the general property of the-State of Louisiana, and was subject to taxation under
the laws of that State, although it might be, after arrival, sold
from. the vessel upon which the transportation was made, and
without being landed, and for the purpose of being taken out
of the country on a vessel bound to a foreign port. In delivering the opinion of the court Mr. Justice Bradley observed:
"It cannot be seriously contended, at least in the absence of
any congressional legislation to the contrary, that all goods
which are the product of other States are to be free from taxation in the State to which they may be carried for use or sale.
Take the city of New York, for example, when the issessor of
taxes goes his round, must he omit from his list of taxables all
goods which have come into the city from the factories of New
England and New Jersey, or from the pastures and grain fields
of the West? If he must, what will be left for taxation? And
how is he to distinguish between those goods which are taxable
and those which are not? With the exception of goods im-'
ported from foreign countries, still in the originalpackages,and
goods in transit to some other place, why may he not assess all
property alike that may be found in. the city, being the efor the
purpose of remainingthere until used or sold, and constituting
.part of the great mass of commercial capital - provided, always,
that the assessment be a general one, and made without discrimination between goods the product of New York and goods
the product of other States ? Of course, the assessment should
be a general one, and not discriminative between goods of different States. The taxing.of goods coming from other States as
such, or by reason of their so coming, would be a discriminating
tax against them as imposts, and would be a regulation of inter-

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

state commerce, inconsistent with that perfect freedom of trade
which Congress has seen fit should remain undisturbed. But,
if, after their arrival within the State-that being their place
of destination for use of trade-if, after this, they are subjected
to a general tax laid alike on all property within the city, we
fail to see how such a taxing can be deemed a regulation of
commerce which would have the objectionable effect referred
to."
The principle of this case was applied subsequently in that of
Pittsburgh& Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577.
In leisy v. aardin,135 U. S. 160, 122 quarter barrels of
beer, Ill one eighth barrels of beer and eleven cases of beer
were seized by the city marshal of Keokuk under a state statute prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors. It was held
that, being articles of lawful commerce, the State could not, in
the absence of legislation on the part of Congress, prohibit their
importation from abroad or from a sister State; or, when imported, prohibit their sale by the importer, and that they did
not become a part of the common mass of property within the
State so long as they remained in the casks in which they wer6
imported and continued to be the property of the importer. No
question was made with regard to the casks being original packages, or as to the fact that,.according to the custom of brewers,
beer was usually and ordinarily imported from one State to another in casks of this size.
In the still later case of Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171
U. S. 1, oleomargarine was recognized as alawful article of commerce, and one which could not be wholly excluded from importation into a State from andther State where it was manufactured, and so long as it remained in-its original packages
could be sold, notwitbstanding a statute of the State prohibiting such sale. The oleomargarine in that case was imported and
sold in packages of ten pounds weight; but it appeared in the
special verdict that the package was an original package, as required by the act of Congress, and was of such" form; size and
weight as is used by producers "or shippers for the purpose of
securing both convenience in handling and security in transportation of merchandise between dealers in the ordinary course
VOL. eLxnx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of actual commerce, and the said form, size and weight were
adopted- in good faith, and not for the purpose of evading the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, said package being one of a number of similar packages forming one consignment shipped by the said company to the said defendant."
Most pertinent to this case, and, as we think, covering its
principle completely, is the opinion of this court in May v. .New
Orleans, 178 U. S. 496, decided at the last term. This involved
the validity of certain tax assessments made by the city of New
Orleans upon the merchandise and stock in trade of the plaintiff, which consisted of .dry goods imported from foreign cofintries, upon which duties had been levied by and paid to the
General Government. The goods were put up and sold in packages, a large number of such packages being inclosed in wooden
cases or boxes for the purposes of importation. Upon arrival
at New Orleans the boxes were opened, the packages. taken out
and sold unbroken. The question was whether the box or case
containing these packages, or the packages themselves were the
original packages within the case of Brown v. MZatryland, 12
Wheat. 419. It was conceded that, so long as the packages remained in their original cases, they were not subject to taxation, but the court held that this immunity ceased as soon as
the boxes were 'opened. As stated by Mr. Justice Harlan in
delivering the opinion of the court (p. 508):
"In our judgment, the ' original package5 in the present case
was the box or case in which the goods imported were shipped,
and when the box or case was opened for the sale or delivery of
the separate parcels contained in it, each parcel of the goods
lost its distinctive character as an import, and became property
subject to taxation by the State as other like property situated
within its limits. The tax here in question was not in any sense
a tax on imports nor a tax for the privilege of bringing the
things imported into the State. It was not a tax on the plaintiff's goods because they were imported from another country,
but because at the time of the assessment they were in the
market for sale in separate parcels and therefore subject to be
taxed as like property, in the same condition, that had its origin
in this country. We cannot impute to the framers of the Con-

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution a purpose to make such a discrimination in favor of
property imported from other countries as would result if we
approved the views pressed upon us by the plaintiffs. When
their goods had been so acted upon as to become a part of the
general mass of property in the State the plaintiffs stood, with
respect to liability to state taxation, upon the same basis of
equality as the owners of like property, the product of this
country; the only difference being that the importers paid a
duty to the United States for the privilege of importing their
goods into this country, and of selling them in the original packages-a duty imposed for the purpose of raising money to carry
on the operations of the Government, and, in many instances,
with the intent io protect the industries of this country against
foreign competition."
The case under consideration is really the first one presenting
to this court distinctly the question whether, in holding that the
State cannot prohibit the sale in its original package of an article brought from another State, the size of the package is material, although some of the expressions in the License Cases
seem to foreshadow the consequences likely to result from the
argument of the defendant. Thus, it is stated. by Mr. Justice
Catron, 5 How. 608, that "to hold that the state license law
[of New Hampshire] was Void, as respects spirits coming in
from other States as articles of commerce, would open the door
to an almost entire evasion, as the spirits might be introduced
in the smallest divisible quantities that the retail trade would
require; the consequences of which would be that the dealers
in New Hampshire would sell only spirits produced in other
States, and that the products of New Hampshire would find an
unrestrained market in the neighboring States having similar
license laws to those of New Hampshire." And also in the
opinion of Mr. Justice Woodbury, rendered in the same case
(p. 625): "If the proposition was maintainable, that, without any
legislation by Congress as to the trade between the States, (except that in coasting, as before explained, to prevent smuggling,)
anything imported from another State, foreign or domestic,
could be sold of right in the package in which it was imported,
not subject to any license or any internal regulation of a State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Cuurt.

then it is obvious that the whole license system may be evaded
and nullified, either from abroad or from a neighboring State.
And the more especially can it be done from the latter, as imPorts may be made in bottles of any size, down to half a pint,
of spirits or wines; and if its sale cannot be interfered with and
regulated, the retail business can be carried on in any small
quantity, and by the most irresponsible and unsuitable persons,
with perfect impunity." These words are certainly prophetic
in their applicability to this case.
Similar questions have arisen in the Federal courts of original jurisdiction, whose decisions have generally been in favor
of the position taken by the plaintiff in error in this case. The
same question has been considered in the courts of several States,
and their decisions have been with almost equal unanimity the
other way.
In Conrzmonwealth v. Zelt, 138 Penn. St. 615, a distiller manufacturing over the state line established a store or agency within
the State, put up his liquors in bottles ranging in capacity from
one quart down to one half pint, and, packing them in unsealed
barrels, sent them to the Pennsylvania store, where they were
taken from the barrels, &iutupon the shelves and sold to customers. The question was submitted to the jury, which, as
stated by the court, evidently regarded defendant's method as
a trick and an evasion of the state statute. The judgment was
affirmed. In Commonwealth v. Schollenberger, 156 Penn. St.
201, (not the case reported in 171 U. S. 1,) an original package
is defined to be "such form and size of package as is used by
producers or shippers for the purpose of securing both convenience in handling, and security in transportation of merchandise between dealers in the ordinary course of actual
commerce." Where a mode of putting up a package is not
adapted to meet the requirements of interstate commerce, but
the requirements of an unlawful domestic retail trade, the
dealer will not be protected on the ground that he is selling
an original package. The opinion contains a very vigorous
denunciation of the methods resorted to by this class of dealers. The following paragraphs are sufficiently illustrative of
the general purport of the decision: "Intrenched behind the

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce clause so construed, citizens of other States
could prey upon our people, trample upon our laws, and m~ke
gain out of a traffic forbidden to our citizens only to be delivered up absolutely and unconditionally to them. It would
require only that such citizen of another State should establish a local store in some' of our towns and cities, or in all of.
them, conduct a local business, to meet a local demand, and,
when called upon by the officers of the law,.make the reply
that he made the goods in some other State, and, as a manufacturer, supplied himself, as a local dealer, with wares of a
foreign origin. Neither the foreign origin of the goods sold,
nor of the seller, nor of both together, will conver..a buisiniess
that is local and interstate into one that is general and interstate within the meaning of the Constitution -of the United
States. . . . One who plants his foot squarely upoi the
.police laws of this State and defies its officers to suppress or to
punish his unlawful- trade, must sho* a clear legal right to take
and maintain his position as a public enemy, .or suffer the penalty of the broken law. To hold otherwise would make it
impossible for the people of any State to protect themselves
from evils that by common consent throughout the civilized
world need to be restrained and removed by suitable legislation. It would also strike a blow of absolutely crushing weight
at the existence of the police power in the several States, and
render all attempts at its exercise ineffectual and useless."
In the case of Commonwealth v. Bis&4,an, 138 Penn. St.-639,
defendant sold liquor in pint and quart bottles, each of which
was enclosed in a pasteboard box, sealed with a strip of paper
pasted across the lid, and stamped with the name of the firm.
These packages were shipped in boxes and barrels to defendant's agent, who unpacked them when they arrived, and placed
the pasteboard packages on his shelves. The court held that
there was abundance of evidence to submit to the jury whether
the whole matter was not a scheme to evade the license laws.
Said the court: "The defendant was engaged in selling liquor
at retail, and his claim that he was selling only original packages was little better than a burlesque."
In Cbmmonfwealt v. Paul,170 Penn. St. 284, a small tub of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

oleomargarine, containing ten pounds, prepared in another
State and brought into Pennsylvania to be sold unbroken to a
customer for his use as an article bf food upon his table, and
actually so sold, was -held. not to be an original package
within the meaning of the law relating to interstate commerce.
Said the court: "If a pint bottle of whiskey is an original
package under the protection of Congress, and can be sold as
such, regardless of the police legislation of the State, we cannot
punish the sale to a minor, to a person of known intemperate
habits, to a lunatic, on election days; or on the Sabbath. All
power over the traffic for police purposes is gone. And why?
Because the power to regulate interstate commerce, intended to
guard against stoppage along state lines for examination or the
collection of customs duties, has been extended by construction
untif it is made to reach and protect a retail traffic carried on
within any State, if the things sold have come into the retailer's store from a non-resident manufacturer or shipper.
Our question is whether this valid restriction can be enforced,
or whether the transparent trick of putting up oleomargarine
in small packages in another State, so that it can be sold at retail to consumers as an article of food, will clothe an unlawful
retail traffic with the 'coat of mail belonging to honest, legitimate interstate commerce, and set the police-laws of the State
at defiance?"
In Haley v. NTebraska, 42 Nebraska, 556, the same result was
reached upon precisely the same state of facts; as well as in
State v. Chapman, 1 South Dakota, 414; and Smith v. State, 54
Arkansas, 248.
In Xo Gregor v. Cone, 104 Iowa, 465, the question arose as to
packages of cigarettes of the same size as those involved in the
present case. These packages were'placed in a common pine
box for convenience of shipment without any other packing or
enclosure about the packages, and were shipped by the company from its factory in New York to its warehouse in dhicago,
and thence to the defendant's place of business in Iowa. Upon
the arrival of the box the defendant opened the box by taking
the lid off, and sold one of the packages containing cigarettes.
It was held that the pine box was the original package, and that

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant was liable, notwithstanding that the internal revenue department had, for the purposes of taxation, declared
the small packages sold by defendant to be original packages.
This case seems to have overruled the cases of State v. Coonan,
82 Iowa, 400; Collins v. _ill8, T Iowa, 181; Hropkins v. Lewis,
86 Iowa, 638; State v. filler, 84: Iowa, 690, where a contrary
view was expressed.
The real question in this case is whether the size of the package in which the importation is actually made is to govern; or,
the size of the package in which bona fide transactions are
carried on between the manufacturer and the wholesale dealer
residing in different States. We hold to the latter view. The
whole theory of the exemption of the original package from
the operation of state laws is based upon the idea that the property is imported in the ordinary form in which, from time to
time immemorial, foreign goods have been brought into the
country. These have gone at once into the hands of the wholesale dealers, who have been in the habit of breaking the packages and distributing their contents among the several retail
dealers throughout the State. It was with reference to this
method of doing business that the doctrine of the exemption
of the original package grew up. But taking the words "original package" in their literal sense, a number of so-called
original package manufactories have been started through the
country, whose business it is to manufacture goods for the express purpose of sending their products into other States in
minute packages, that may at once go into the hands of the retail dealers and consumers, and thus bid defiance to the laws
of the State against their importation and sale. In all the cases
which have heretofore arisen in this court the packages were
of such size as to exclude the idea that they were to go directly
into the hands of the consumer, or be used to evade the police
regulations of the State with regard to the particular article.
No doubt the fact that cigarettes are actually imported in a
certain package is strong evidence that they are original packages within the meaning of the law; but this presumption attaches only when the importation is made in the usual manner
prevalent among honest dealers, and in a bona,/de package of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

a particular size. Without undertaking to determine what is
the proper size of an original package in each 'case, evidently
the doctrine has no application where the manufacturer puts
up the package with the express intent of evading thi laws of
another State, and -isenabled to carry out his purpose by the
facile agency of an express company and the connivance of his
consignee. This court has repeatedly held that, so far from
lending its authority to frauds upon the sanitary laws of the
several States, we are bound to respect such laws and to aid in
their enforcement, so far as can be done without infringing
upon the constitutional rights of the parties. The consequences
of our adoption of defendant's contention would be far-reaching
and disasterous. For the purpose of aiding a manufacturer in
evading the laws of a sister State, we should be compelled to
recognize anything as an original package of beer from a hog'shead to a vial; anything as a package of cigarettes from an
importer's case to a single paper box of ten, or even a single
cigarette, if imported separately and loosely; anything from
a bale of merchandise to a single ribbon, provided only the
dealer sees fit to purchase his stock outside the State and import
it in minute quantities.
There could hardly be stronger evidence of fraud than is
shown by the facts of this case, which we quote from the opinion
of the court:
"The defendant purchased from the American Tobacco Company, at its factory, in Durham, North Carolina, a lot of cigarettes manufactured by that company at that factory, and there
by it put into pasteb6ard boxes, in quantities of ten cigarettes
to each box; that each of these boxes, known as packages, was
separately stamped and labeled, as prescribed by the United
States revenue statute; that after defendant's purchase the
American Tobacco Company piled upon the floor of its warehouse, in Durham, North Carolina, the number of boxes or
packages sold, and, having done so, notified the Southern Express Company to come and get them, and said company, by
its agefit, took them from the floor and placed them in an open
basket already and previously in the possession of the Southern
Express Company, and in that basket had them traifsported by

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

express to the defendant's town in Tennessee, and there an
agent of the same express company took the basket to defendant's place of business and lifted from it on to the counter of
the defendant the lot of detached boxes or packages of cigarettes, and thereupon took a receipt and departed with the
empty basket. Thereafter the defendant sold one of these boxes
or packages without breaking it, and for that sale he stands
convicted."
And yet we are told that each one of these packages is an
original package, and entitled to the protection of the Constitution of the United States as a separate and distinct importation.
We can only look upon it as a discreditable subterfuge, to which
this court ought not to lend its countenance. If there be any
original package at all in this casewe think it is the basket and
iot the paper box.
Suppose the State of Tennessee in the exercise of its police
powers should prohibit
the manufacture within its limits of,
cigarettes, whether they were manufactured to be sold in that
State, or to be sent to other States for sale, could the validity
of such legislation be questioned, as in violation of the Constitution of the United States, upon the ground that it infringed te
liberty which is secured to the citizens by the Fourteenth Amendment? "The liberty mentioned in that amendment," this court
has said, "means not only the right of the citizen to be free
from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by ip.carceration, but the term is deemed to embrace the right of the citizen
to,be free in the enjoyment of all his faculties; to be free to use
them in all lawful ways; to live and work where he will; to
earn his livelihood by any lawful calling; to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and for that purpose to enter into all contracts which may be proper, necessary and essential to his
carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned." Allgeyer v. Zouisian,%, 165 U. S. 578, 589.
There is doubtless fair ground for dispute as to whether the
use of cigarettes is not hurtful to the community, and therefore
it would be competent for a State, with reference to its own
people, to declare, under penalties, that cigarettes should not be
manufactured within its limits. No one could say that such

OCTOBER 'T'ERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

*legislation trenched upon the liberty of the citizen by preventing him from pursuing a lawful business. Now the result of
defendant's argument in this case is that citizens of Tennessee
may, under the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States, bring into that State from other States cigarettes
in unlimited quantities, and sell them despite the will of Tennessee as expressed in its legislation. In other words, it is
decided, that the commerce clause of the Constitution, by its
own force, without any legislation by Congress, overrides the
action of the State in a matter confessedly involving, in the
judgment of its legislature, the health of its people. We cannot
accept this view. The doctrine that the sdence of Congress as
to what property may be of right carried from one State to
another means that every article of commerde may be carried
into one State from another and there sold, ought not to be.
extended so as to embrace articles which may not unreasonably
be deemed injurious in their use to the health of the people.
If this be not so, it follows that the reserved power of the State
to protect the health of its people, by reasonable regulations,
has application only in respect of articles manufactured within
its own limits; and that an open door exists for the introduction
into the State, againsf its will, of all kinds of property which,
may be fairly regarded as injurious in their use to health. If
Congress have power to declare what property may and what
may not be brought into oue State from another State, then
the action of a State by -which certain articles, not unreasonably
deemed injurious to health, were excluded from its markets,
should stand until Congress legislated upon the subject. -If
Congress possesses no such power, it is because the framers of
,the Constitution never intended that the mere grant of power
to regulate commerce should override the power reserved by
the States to pass laws that had substantial relations to the
health of their people. Of course, it is one thing to force into
a State, against its will, articles or commodities that can have
no possible connection with or relation to the health of the
people. It is quite a different thing to force into the markets
of a State, against its will, articles or commodities which, like
cigarettes, may not uinreasonably be held to be injurious to
health.

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

Practically the only argument relied upon in support of the
theory that these packages of ten cigarettes are original packages is derivable from the Revised Statutes, section 3392, which
requires that manufacturers shall put up all cigarettes made by
or for them, and sold or removed for consumption -or use, in
packages containing ten, twenty, fifty or one hundred cigarettes
each. This, however, is solely for the purpose of taxation-a
precaution taken-for the better enforcement of the internal
revenue law, andto be read in connection with section $243,
which provides that "the payment of any tax imposed by the
internal revenue laws for carrying on any trade or business shall
not be held to exempt any person from any penalty or punishment provided by the laws of any State for carrying on the
same within such State, or in any manner to authorize the commencement or continuance of such trade or business contrary
to the laws of such State." As was said in Plumley v. fa8sacheuttM, 155 U. S. 461, 466, it is manifest this section was
adopted to make it clear that Congress had no purpose to restrict the power of the State over the manufacture and sale of
particular articles. "The taxes prescribed by that act were for
national purposes, and their imposition did not give authority
to those who paid them to engage in the manufacture or sale
of oleomargarine in any State which lawfully forbade such
manufacture and sale." The question is not in what packages
the law requires the cigarettes to be packed for the purpose of
taxation, but what are the packages in vhich they are usually
transported from one State to another where the transaction is
bonaflde and for the legitimate purposes of trade and commerce.
We are satisfied the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee was correct, and it is therefore
Aflrmed.
MR. JusTicE WHrr,

concurring.

I do not understand that anything in the opinion of the court
impairs the doctrine protecting original packages from interference by the police or any other power of a State, as announced by so many opinions of this court, especially as ex-

OCTOBER TERMi, 1900. "
JUSTICES BREWER, SHIRAS, PECKEAM and the CHIEF JuSTICE, dissenting.

pounded in 1eisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, and ]hodes v. Iowa,
170 iT. S. 412, and the authorities which are cited in the opinions of the court in both of those cases. If I thought either
the opinion of the court just announced or the conclusion which
it reaches had the effect of weakening the doctrine upheld by
the authorities to which I have just referred, I should be unable to concur. Indeed, as I understand the case as now decided,
all the questions adverted to are Ifierged in the solution of the
one decisive issue, which is, Was each paricular parcel of cigarettes an original package within the constitutional import of
those words as defined by the previous adjudications of the
court? I am constrained to conclude that this question is correctly answered in the negative, not only from the size of each
particular parcel, but from all the other surrounding facts and
circumstances, among which may be mentioned the trifling
value of each parcel, the absence of an address on each, and the
fact that many parcels, for the purpose of commercial shipment,
were aggregated, thrown into and carried in an open basket.
Thus associated in their shipment, they could not, under all the
facts and circumstances of the case, after arrival be segregated
so as to cause each to become an original package.

MR. 'JUSTIcE BREWER, with whom concurred the CHIEF JUSTICE,)MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS and MR. JUSTICE PEoKHAiI, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinions and judgment in this case. The
plaintiff in error was convicted of a violation of the following
act of the General Assembly of Tennessee:
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, That it shall be a misdemeanor for any person, firm or
corporation to sell, offer to sell, or to bring into the State for
the purpose of selling, giving away, or otherwise disposing of
any cigarettes, cigarette paper or substitute for the same; and
a violation of any of the provisions of this act shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars."
The facts shown by the testimony, as appears from the record, are as follows:
"This defendant was on the 1st day of November, 1897, a

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTIoE

BBMWER, SHIRAS, PEcKHAM and the CH

F JUSTICE, dissenting.

resident of and merchant in the town of Madisonville, said Monroe County, Tennessee, and in no way connected with the
American Tobacco Company, as agent or otherwise; that just
prior to said November, 1897, the defendant purchased, in the
State of North Carolina, from the Aimerican Tobacco Company,
a corporation of the State of New Jersey, and having a factory
for the manufacture of cigarettes in Durham, N. C., ant similar
factories at other points in the United States, but having no
factory, office, nor warehouse in the State of Tennessee, a number of packages, each containing 10 Duke of Durham cigarettes; that these cigarettes were manufac.tured by the American
Tobacco Company at its factory in said -town of Durham, and
were packed by it in quantities of 10 in pasteboard slide-boxes,
upon each of which such box or package were printed the
names of the manufacturers of the cigarettes therein contained,
the name or brand of the cigarettes therein contained, the number of the factory and internal revenue collection or manufacturing district in which said factory was located, the number
of cigarettes contained in the box or package, the caution notice required by the laws of the United States, the internal
revenue stamp for 10 cigarettes pasted across the end of such
box or package, so as to act as a seal thereon and thereof, and
which had to be broken and destroyed to open saidbox or package, and all the other requirements of the laws and regulations
of the United States governing the packing and sale of cigarettes. A package in all respects similar to those bought by
defendant at Durham, N. C., is hereto attached, marked ' Exhibit A.' These packages were packed and manufactured by
said American Tobacco Company at Durham, N. C., and were
by it shipped from said town of, Durham, N. C., to defendant
by the Southern Express Company, without case, covering, or
enclosure of any kind around or about any of said packages,
but were by said American Tobacco Company piled upon the
floor of its warehouse in Durham, N. C., and said Southern Express Company notified to come and get them, and said express
company, by its agent, took them, the said enclosed packages,
and placed them in an open basket, already and heretofore in
the possession -of said Southern Express Company; that these

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTcEs BREWFR, SMIAS, PEOKHAM and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

packages were brought to thie place of business of defendant by
an agent of said express company in the same open basket in
which they had been placed by said express company at Durham, N. C., and by said agent lifted from said basket on to, the
counter in the place of business of defendant, and so delivered
to and receipted for by the defendant; that said basket was not
left with'defendant at all, but was carried away from defendant's
business by said agent of said express company immediately
upon the delivery of said packages of cigarettes; that defendant
immediately upon his receipt of said packages, as aforesaid, put
them on sale, without breaking, and sold one of them on said
November 1, 1897, to W. G. Brown, an adult resident of said
Monroe County, Tennessee, said sale being in Monroe County,
Tennessee, and within one year before the finding of this indictment."
Upon these facts the Supreme Court of Tennessee sustained
the conviction, and thereupon the defendant sued out this writ
of error. His contention is that the act is, as applied to the
importation of cigarettes and subsequent sale th- reof in the
packages in which they were imported, in confl;ct ivith the
Constitution of the United States.
It will be perceived that the statute in terms expressly prohibits the sale of cigarettes, or the bringing them into the State
for the purpose of sale. If valid, it not only prohibits an individual within the State from selling cigarettes manufactured
therein, but also prohibits any one bringing cigarettes from
another State into Tennessee for the purpose of sale. It will,
therefore, stop all importations of cigarettes for sale, and the
only permissible importations will be those for personal use.
The power of the, State, therefore, to put an end to commerce
between other States and itself, except so far as the importation
is for the use of the importer, is brqadly and distinctly asserted
by this statute. Claiming the- right to determine absolutely
what shall be sold within its limits, Tennessee attempts to prohibit the sale, or the importation for sale, of cigarettes. As said
by its Supreme Court: "The statute under which the conviction
was had unconditionally prohibits all sales of cigarettes, whether
manufactured in this State or elsewhere."

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BnEwER, SH AS, PECKHAM and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

It may be well to consider what this statute is not. It has
none of the elements of inspection. It does not attempt to distinguish between cigarettes made of tobacco free from any drug,
wrapped in paper untouched by any poison, from those (of which
we are assured by counsel in their argument there are many)
whose tobacco has been mixed with opium or some other drug,
and whose wrapper has been saturated in a solution of arsenic.
There is no attempt to distinguish between the pure and impure;
no attempt to protect a purchaser from: the purchase of an adulterated article. On the contrary, it stamps tobacco wrapped
up in the form of a cigarette as in and of itself noxious, and to
be wholly forbidden. The Supreme Court of Tennessee rightly
interpreted this statute as an absolute prohibition of the sale of
cigarettes, no matter what the character of the paper wrappers
or the condition of the tobacco within them, and it asserted the
power of the State to enact the statute on the ground that cigarettes are "inherently bad, and bad only." I quote from its
opinion:
"Are cigarettes legitimate articles of commerce ? We think
they are not, because wholly noxious afid deleterious to health.
Their use is always harmful, never beneficial. They possess no
virtue, but are inherently bad' and bad only. They find no true
commendation for merit or usefulness in any sphere. On the
contrary, they are widely condemned as pernicious altogether.
Beyond question, their every tendency is toward the impairent
of physical health and mental vigor.
"There is no proof in the'record as to the character of cigarettes, yet their character is so well and so generally known to
be that stated above, that the courts are authorized to take judicial cognizance of the fact. No particular proof is required in
regard to those facts which by human observation and experience have become well and generally known to be true, &kholUnberger v. Pensylvania,171 U. S.1; 1 Greenl. Evi. see. 6;
1 Whart. Evi. sec. 282; 1 Jones' Evi. secs. 129 and 134; Lanfear v. .ftestier, 18 La. Ann. 497; $. C., 89 Am. Dec. 658 and
note 693; State v. Goyette, 11 R. I. 592; WTatsoA v. State, 55
Ala. 158; nor is it essential that they shall have been formally
recorded in written history or science to entitle courts to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWEE, SmHAs, PECKHA.

and the CmEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

judicial notice of them. Boullenet v. State, 28 Ala. 83; 12 Am.
& Eng. Enc. L. 199.
"It is a part of the history of the organization of the volunteer army in the United States during the present year that
large numbers of men, otherwise capable, had rendered themselves unfit for service by the use of cigarettes, and that among
the applicants who were addicted to the use of cigarettes more
were rejected by examining physicians on account of disabilities
thus caused than for any other, and perhaps every other reason.
"It is also a part of the unwritten history of the legislation
in question that it was based upon and brought to passage by
the firm conviction of the minds of legislators and of the public
that cigarettes are wholly noxious and deleterious. The enactment was made upon this idea and alone for the protection of
the people of the State from an unmitigated evil."
No one can question the sincerity of the legislature of Tennessee in thus enacting what it deemed for the health of its
citizens, or the conviction of the members of its Supreme Court
of the validity of such legislation by reason of the greatness of
the supposed evil which it was intended to restrain. And yet
there is no consensus of opinion as to the fact of such' evil. As
illustrative of which statement see the articles in the MedicoLegal Journal of March and September, 1898, and the large
collection therein of the opinions of medical and other scientific
gentlemen in respect to the matter. Further, the report for 1899.
of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (p. 436) shows that
the number of cigarettes manufactured in the United States
during the year 1899 was two billion eight hundred and five
million one hundred, and thirty thousand seven hundred and
thirty-seven, (2,805,130,737) on which the government collected
a tax of four million two hundred and thirteen thousand and two
hundred and fifteen dollars and twenty-five cents ($4,213,215.25).
These figures are enormous, and in addition this fact may be
noted, a fact obvious to all who have had occasion to travel in
other countries, (particularly those occupied by different branches
of the Latin race,) that the use of cigarettes is there far more
common than in this country.
In view of these and other facts it is perhaps not surprising

AUSTIN v. -TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BREawE,

SHIBAS, PECKHAM and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

to find Mr. Jusice Brown, speaking for himself and three associates, stating, "we are not prepared to fully indorse the opinion
of that court" (Supreme Court of Tennessee) "that cigarettes
are not legitimate articles of coinmerce," or that "they are
inherently bad, and bad only." The truth is that, whatever
differences of opinion may exist as to whether cigarettes are or
are not hurtful, they are confessedly a common and well recognized article of commerce, and as such when the subject of interstate commerce are under the control of that body to which by
the Constitution of the United States is given the power to
regulate commerce between the States.
It will be een by an inspection of the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee that that court sustained the conviction on
two grounds: First. That cigarettes were not a legitimate article of commerce, and therefore the State of Tennessee by virtue
of its police power had a right to prohibit absolutely their importation and sale, no matter in what form they were so imported
and sold; and, secondly, that if it had no such general power
it could prohibit the importation and sale of cigarettes in packages of the size in which these were imported and sold. In
view of the adherence by Mr. Justice White to the opinions
heretofore announced by this court in leisy v. Hfardin, 135
U. S. 100, and other cases in respect to the inability of the
State by virtue of its police power to prohibit the importation
and sale in original packages of articles, which are recognized
articles of commerce although the subjects of conflicting opinions as to the deleteriousness of their use, it would seem unnecessary to enter into any lengthy consideration of the first
ground. Especially is this so inasmuch as there is no expressed
attempt, to overrule Scholenberger v. Pennsylvania, Ill U. S.
I, decided two years ago last May, in which decision three of
the justices concurring in the affirmance of the judgment herein
concurred, and in which it was distinctly ruled (p. 23): "In the
absence of congressional legislation, therefore, the right to inport a lawful article of commerce from on6 State to another
continues until a sale in the original package in which the article was introduced into the State." Although it may benotieed
in passing that this case, as decided by the Supreme Court of
VoL. CLXXI-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTicEs BBEWER, SHIRAS, PEcynAM and the CH=EF JUs cE, dissenting.

Pennsylvania, where it is reported under the title, Commonwealth v. Paul, 170 Penn. St. 284, (see 171 U. S. 5,) is both
cited and quoted from in support of this decision. A ruling
we have reversed is the authority now relied upon. Inasmuch
however as Mr. Justice Brown, in his opinion, has, in addition
to this citation, quoted some expressions which may seem to
tend towards giving an enlarged scope to the police power of
the State, it may not be a waste of time to show concisely what
this court has decided, and what may, therefore, now be considered settled law.
In the first place, Congress has supreme and exclusive control over interstate commerce. I shall not attempt to restate
the oft-repeated historical argument that one of the chief Yeasons leading to the formation of the Federal Constitution was
the necessity, disclosed by the experience of the colonies under
the confederation, of preventing any discriminating or retaliatory legislation by any State in respect to the commodities
produced or manufactured in another, and the consequent importance of having commerce between the States placed absolutely within the control of a legislative body representing all
the States. And yet it may not be out of place to quote these
words from the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Johnson, in
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 224:
"For a century the States had submitted, with murmurs, to
the commercial restrictions imposed by the parent State; and,
now, finding themselves in the, unlimited possession of those
powers over their own commerce, which they had so long been
deprived df and so earnestly coveted, that selfish principle which,
well controlled, is so salutary, and which, unrestricted, is so unjust and tyrannical, guided by inexperielice and jealousy, began
to show itself in iniquitous laws and impolitic measures, from
which grew up a conflict of commercial regulations, destructive
to the harmony of the States, and fatal to their commercial interests abroad. This was the immediate cause that led to the
forming of a convention."
And these from Chief Justice Marshall, in Brown v..Marylanid, 12 Wheat. 419, 446:
"It may be doubted whether anv of the evils proceeding

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BREWEB, SHMAS, PEORHAm and, the CHIET JUSTICE, dissenting.

from the feebleness of the Federal government contributed
more to the great revolution which introduced the present system than the deep and general conviction that commerce ought
to be regulated by Congress. It is not, therefore, matter of surprise that the grant should be as extensive as the mischief, and
should comprehend all foreign commerce and all commerce
among the States."
The plain language of the Constitution affirms this. Second
only to the power "to collect taxes" and "to borrow money"
is the power given to Congress by section 8, article 1, of the
Constitution "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the s-everal States, and with the Indian tribes." Thus
next in order, as though next in importance to the power of
maintaining itself by taxation and borrowing money, is the
power to regulate commerce between the States as well as between the United States and foreign nations.
While this nation is as between it and the States one of enumerated powers, it is within the scope of those enumerated powers
supreme, and, as the power to regulate commerce between the
States is expressly given to Congress, and no division provided
for, it follows that it is wholly withdrawn from state control;
and such has been the uniform ruling of this court. In the case
just quoted from, Gibbon.s v. Ogden, Chief Justice Marshall, delivering.the opinion of the court, on page 196, thus declared the
scope and limit of that power:
"It is the power to regulate; that is, to prescribe the rule by
which commerce is to be governed. This power, like all others
vested in Congress, is complete in itself, may be exercised to its
utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations other than are
prescribed in the Constitution. These are expressed in plain
terms, and do not affect the questions which arise in this case,
or which have been discussed at the bar. If, as has always
been understood, the sovereignty of Congress, though limited
to specified objects, is plenary as to those objects, the power
over commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, is vested in Congress as absolutely as it would be in a
single government, having in its constitution the same restric-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JusTICEs BBEWER, SHMAS, P.ECEHAM and the CmEF JusTIcE, dissenting.

tions on the exercise of the power as are found in the Constitution of the United States."
And in the other case referred to, Brown v. .Maryland,on
page 446, the Chief Justice put this question and gave this answer:
"What, then, is the just extent of a power to regulate commerce with-foreign nations, and among the several States?
"This question was considered in the case of Gibbons v. Oqden, 9 Wheat. 1, in which it was declared to be complete in
itself, and to acknowledge no limitations other than are prescribed by the Constitution. The po.wer is coextensive with
the subject on which it acts, and cannot be stopped at the external boundary of a State, but must enter its interior."
In 'he Passenger Cases, 'I How. 283, Mr. Sustice McLean,
after referring to many prior cases, to the discussions in the
convention which formed the Constitution, and the language,
among others, of Mr. Madison in that discussion, that "he was
more and more convinced that the regulation of commerce was
in its nature indivisible, and ought to be wholly under one authority," summed up his conclusion in these words (p. 400):
"Whether I consider the nature and object of the commercial power, the class of powers with which it is placed, the decision of this court in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
reiterated in Brown v. Afaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, and often
reasserted by Mr. Justice Story, who participated in those decisions, I am brought to the conclusion that the power ' to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States,' by the Constitution, is exclusively vested in Congress."
In The -ead .oney Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 590, Mr. Justice
Miller, considering a statute passed by Congress requiring the
master or owner of every vessel bringing immigrants into the
United States to pay a tax of fifty cents for each immigrant,
to create a fund for the expense of regulating immigration, the
care of immigrants and for the relief of such as were in distress,
and holding that it constituted a regulation of commerce, said
in reference to it and other like statutes:
"That the purpose of these statutes is humane, is highly beneficial to the poor and helpless immigrant, and is essential to the

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTIOZs Bnzw=, SHmAS, PEcTrKA

and the CEpF JUsTIcE, dissenting.

protection of the people in whose midst they are deposited by
the steamships, is beyond dispute. That the power to pass such
laws should exist in some legislative body in this country is

equally clear. This court has decided distinctly and frequently,
and always after a full hearing from able counsel, that it does
not belong to the States. That decision did not rest in any case
on the ground. that the State and its people were not deeply interested in the existence and enforcement of such laws, and were
not capable of enforcing them if they had the power to enact
them; but on the ground that the Constitution, in the division
of powers which it declares between the States and the general
government, has conferred this power on the latter to the exclusion of the former."
In 1eisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108, Chief Tustice Fuller
thus stated the rule:
"The power vested in Congress ' to regulate commerce with
foreign-nations, and among the several States, andwith the Indian tribes,' is the power to prescribe the rule by which their
commerce is to be governed, and is a power complete in itself,
acknowledging no limitations other than those prescribed in the
Constitution. It is coextensive with the subject on which it
acts, and cannot be stopped at the exterpal boundary of a State,
but must enter its interior, and must be capable of authorizing
the disposition of those articles which it introduces, so that they
may become mingled with the common mass of property within
the territory entered."
I might multiply quotations like these, but it is unnecessary.
See the following among other cases for like affirmations:
United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72,78; Case of the State Freight
Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 279, 281; Pensacola Tel. Co. v. IFestern
Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S.1, 9, 10; Afobile County v. Kimball,
102 U. S.691, 696, 697, 699, 700, 702; IWebber v. Virginia,103
U. S. 344, 351; Telegraph Company v. Texas, 105 U. S.460,
466; People v. Compagnie Generale Tansatlantigue,107 U. S.
59, 60; Moranv. -New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69, 72, 73; Gloucester
Ferry Company v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 204, 211;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622, 630, 631, 632; Philqdpkia

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWER, SHIRAs, PECKHAM and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

& Southern Steamship Co. v. Pennsy vania, 122 U. S. 326, 336;
In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 554, 555.
The power of Congress to regulate commerce between the
States being, as we have seen, supreme, its failure to impose any
restrictions or regulations is to be taken as a declaration that,
in its judgment, such commerce shall be free. There is no necessity of an affirmative declaration on its part, for, as it alone
has power to restrict or prescribe regulations, its failure to do so
leaves the commerce unburdened. This, too, is a proposition
which has been so often declared by this court as to be one of
the settled rules of constitutional law. Thus, in Welton v..Xissouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282, it was said:
"The fact that Congress has not seen fit to prescribe any
specific rules to govern interstate commerce, does not affect the
question. Its inaction on this subject, when considered with
reference to its legislation with respect to foreign commerce, is
equivalent to a declaration thiat interstate commerce shall be
free and untrammeled."
In Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 493,
Mr. Justice Bradley summed up the matter in these words and
with these citations:
"Another established doctrine of this court is, that where
the power of Congress to regulate is exclusive the failure of
Congress to make express regulations indicates its will that the
subject shall be left free from any restrictions or impositions; and
any regulation of -the subject by the States, except in matters of
local concern only, as hereafter mentioned, is repugnant to such
freedom. This was held by Mr. Justice Johnson in Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 222; by Mr. Justice Grier in The Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 462; and has been affirmed in subsequent cases. State Freight Tax Cases, 15 Wall. 232, 279 ; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 469; Melton v. 3f1issouri, 91
U. S. 275, 282; M7fobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Brown.
v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 631; Walling v. Afichigan, 116 U. S.
446, 455; Pickard v. Pullman Southern Car. Co., 117 U. S.
34; Wabash &c. By. Co. v. llnois, 118 U. S. 557.,'
See also Bowman v. Chicago & Nforthwestern By. Co., 125

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BREwnR, SHImAS, PECKHA-

and the CHIEF JUSTICE,

dissenting.

U. S. 465; Lei8y v. Hardin,smpra; Covington &c. Bridge Co.
v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204.
In this case the words of Mr. Justice Brown were, (page 212):
"But wherever such laws, instead of being of a local nature
and not affecting interstate commerce but incidentally, are national in their character, the non-action of Congress indicates
its will that such commerce shall be free and untrammeled."
It is true there are many cases in this court in which have
been sustained acts of a State which do in a measure affect interstate commerce, but the thought underlying those cases has
been that the acts complained of were not direct regulations of
interstate commerce, not in restriction but in furtherance of it,
and being purely local in character might rightfully be upheld
until Congress should by its legislation direct the contrary.
That the transportation from one State of its products into
another State for purposes of sale is not a matter of purely local
interest to the latter State is evident. It concerns the right of
the producer or manufacturer in the former State to his market.
We are told by the learned attorney general of Tennessee, as
an evidence of the good faith of the State in this legislation,
that it has many areas of territory especially valuable for the
growth of tobacco, and that it is one of the large tobacco producing States in the nation. That is, therefore, a valuable industry in Tennessee. Suppose the legislatures of all the other
States should become possessed of the idea that the use of tobacco was injurious, and prohibit the importation and sale
thereof. Could it fairly be said that such legislation was in
respect to a matter of only local interest in the separate States
passing such legislation. Could not Tennessee rightfully contend that it was a matter affecting one of its large industries,
and which was likely to be destroyed by such adverse legislation
It is undoubtedly true that the police power is not by the
Constitution delegated to Congress. It may, therefore, under
article 10 of the Amendments, be regarded as reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people, but it is equally clear that
no power which is impliedly reserved to the States can limit or
detract from the full scope of any power expressly delegated

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWER, SHIRAS, PECKHAM and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

to the nation, to be exercised by Congress. In other words,
the State cannot in the exercise of the police power interfere
with the supreme control by Congress over interstate commerce.
This has been repeatedly affirmed by this court. In Henderson
v. Neew York City, 92 U. S. 259, 271, it was said by Mr. Justice Miller:
"This power, frequently referred to in the decisions of this
court, has been, in general terms, somewhat loosely called the
police power. It is not necessary for the course of this discussion to attempt to define it more accurately than it has been
defined already. It is not necessary, because whatever may
be the nature and extent of that power, where not otherwise
restricted, no. definition of it, and no urgency for its use, can
authorize a State to exercise it in regard to a subject-matter
which has been confided exclusively to the discretion of Congress by the Constitution."
In Railroad Company v. JYesen, 95 U. S. 465, 471, 472, it
was said by Mr. Justice Strong:
"But whatever may be the nature and reach of the police
power of a State, it cannot be exercised over a subject confided
exclusively to Congress by the Federal Constitution. It cannot invade the domain of the national government.

.

.

.

It

may not, under the cover of exerting its police powers, substantially prohibit or burden either foreign or interstate commerce."
Again, by Mr. Justice Harlan, in New Orleans Gas Co. v.
Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661:
"Definitions of the police power must, however, be taken,
subject to the condition that the State cannot, in its exercise,
for any purpose whateer, encroach upon the powers of the
General Government, or rights granted or secured by the supreme law of the land."
Again, in reference to quarantine laws, by Mr. Justice Miller,
in 3forgan Steamship Co. v. Louisiana,118 U. S. 455, 464:
"For, while it may be a police power in the sense that all
provisions for the health, comfort and security of the citizens
are police regulations, and an exercise of the police power, it
has been said more than once in this court that, where such

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BimWEB, SHIBAS, PECBHAm

and the CmIF JusTICE, dissenting.

powers are so exercised as to come within the domain of Federal authority as defined by the Constitution, the latter must
prevail.

Gibbona v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210 ; Henderson v. The

Mayor, 92 U. S. 259, 272; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana

Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661."

Further may well be quoted the words of Mr. Justice Catron
in the License Cases, 5 How. 504, 599, quoted with approval in
Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern Railway, 125 U. S. 465,
489, and again referred to with like approval in Leisy v. -Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 113, and also in In re Bahrer,140 U. S. 545,
557:
"The assumption is that the police power was not touched
by the Constitution, but left to the States, as the Constitution
found it. This is admitted; and whenever a thing, from character or condition, is of a description to be regulated by that
power in the State, then the regulation may be made by the
State, and Congress cannot interfere. But this must always
depend on facts subject to legal ascertainment, so that the injured may have redress. And, the fact must find its support in
this, whether the prohibited article belongs to and is subject to
be regulated as part of foreign commerce, or of commerce
among the States.. If, from its nature, it does not belong to
commerce, or if its condition .from putrescence or other cause,
is such, when it is about to enter the State, that it no longer
belongs to commerce, or, in other words, is not a commercial
article, then the state power may exclude its introduction. And
as an incident to this power, a State may use meansto ascertain
the fact. And here is the limit between the sovereign power of
the State and the Federal power, that is to say, that which does
not belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of the police
power of the State; and that which does belong to commerce
is within the jurisdiction of the United States. And to this
limit must all the general views come, as I suppose, that were
suggested in the reasoning of this court in the cases of Gibbons
v. Ogden, Brown v. The State of -Maryland and New York v.
2in.
What, then, is the assumption of the state court? Undoubtedly, in effect, that the State had the power to declare
what should be an article bf lawful commerce in the particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWER, SE[IRAS, PECKHA.M and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

State; and having declared that ardent spirits and wines were
deleterious to morals and health, they ceased to be commercial
commodities there, and that then the police power attached,
and consequently the powers of Congress could not interfere.
The exclusive state power is made to rest, not on the fact of
the state or condition of the article, nor that it is property
usually passing by sale from hand to hand, but on the declaration found in the state laws, and asserted as the state policy,
that it shall be excluded from commerce. And by this means
the sovereign jurisdiction in the State is attempted to be created in a case where it did not previously exist. If this be the
true construction of the constitutional provision, then the paramount power of Congress to regulate commerce is subject to
a very material limitation; for it takes from Congress, and
leaves with the States, the power to determine the commodities,
or articles of property, which are the subjects of lawfpl commerce.

Congress may regulate, but the States determine what

shall or shall not be regulated. Upon this theory the power to
regulate commerce, instead of being paramount over the subject, would become subordinate to the state police power; for it
is obvious that the power to determine the articles which may
be the subjects of commerce, and thus to circumscribe its scope
and operation, is, in effect, the controlling one. The police
power would not only be a formidable rival, but, in a struggle,
must necessarily triumph over the commercial power, as the
power to regulate is dependent upon the power to fix and determine upon the subjects to be regulated."
See also -Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v.
.Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Crutcher v. Zentucky, 141 U. S. 47;
Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62; Gu~f, Colorado & Santa 9
Railway v. Hfefey, 158 U. S. 98.
We have thus, first, the express language of the Constitution delegating to Congress the power "to regulate commerce
among the several States;" second, the repeated rulings of this court that that power is supreme -and exclusive;
third, an equal volume of decision that the failure of Congress
to prescribe any limitations to interstate commerce in respect
to any particular article is equivalent to a declaration by that

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BREWER, SHIRAS, PECKHAM and the COmEP JUSTICE, dissenting.

body that it intends that such commerce shall be free; and,
fourtl,, the equally often repeated ruling that the reserved
police power of the States is subordinate to and does not limit
or take from the supreme control by Congress"over matters of
interstate commerce.
It would seem from this concurrence of rulings that the decision in leiy v. Hardin,suprc, had now become the settled
law, and that henceforth it is not-to be questioned; that no
State can, under the guise of a police regulation, directly restrain the importation and sale of articles brought in from
other countries and other States, which are recognized articles
-of commerce, no matter what may be the local opinion as to
the injurious effects of the use of such articles. The opinion
of the Supreme Court of Tennessee on the first proposition
suggested must, therefore, be considered as definitely overruled.
I pass now to the second proposition, which is that the pack-,
ages in which these cigarettes were imported are so small, or
the manner of their importation so peculiar, that the power of
Congress over interstate commerce is as to them lost and the
power of the State has become controlling. That this is the
question upon which alone the. reversal is ordered is evident,
for it is said by Mr. Justice Brown, in his opinion, after referring to the matter of the police power:
"We are remitted to the inquiry whether a paper package of
three inches in length and one and a half inches in width, containing ten cigarettes, is an original package protected by the
Constitution of the United States against any interference by
the State while in the hands of the importer? This we regard
as the vital question in the case."
And by Mr. Justice White, in his concurring opinion:
"Indeed, as I understand the case as now decided, all the
questions adverted to are merged in the solution of the one
decisive issue, which is: Was each particular parcel of cigarettes
an original package within the constitutional import of those
words as defined by the previous adjudications of -the court?"
I come to the consideration of this question with the conceded
fact that Congress has supreme and exclusive control over interstate commerce; that no State in the exercise of its police power

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWEn, SHM.S, PEcKx

I and the CarEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

can directly restrain such commerce; and inquire why the size
of the package or the manner of importation determines the
limit of national control?
And first as to the matter of size, we are told that the cigarette package is three inches in length and one and a half inches
in width, and contains ten cigarettes. I have no doubt of the
accuracy of this measurement, but I in vain search the Constitution of the United States for any intimation that the power
of Congress over interstate commerce ceases when the packages
in which that commerce is carried on are of any particular iize.
Mr. Justice Brown quotes this language of Chief Justice Marshall, in Brown v. Afaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, wherein, having
adverted to the fact that the importer might after the importation so break up the packages, or so handle the goods, as to
show an intent to incorporate them into the mass of the general
property of the State, he says:
"It is sufficient for the present to say, generally, that when
the importer has so acted upon the thing imported that it has
become incorporated and mixed up with the mass of property
in the country, it has perhaps lost its distinctive character as
an import, and has become subject to the taxing power of the
State; but while remaining the property of the importer, in
his warehouse, in the original form or package in which it was
imported, a tax upon it is too plainly a duty on imports to
escape the prohibition in the Constitution."
And upon this quotation this observation is made:
"This sentence contains in a nutshell the whole doctrine upon
the subject of original packages, upon which so formidable a
structure has been attempted to be erected in subsequent cases."
And yet, curiously enough, after this declaration, although
the cigarettes sold by the defendant were "in the original form
or package in which they were imported," although there had
been no breaking of any package, it is held that the power of
the nation does not protect him in that sale. Necessarily, there
is impliedly added to the language of the Chief Justice words
like these, "provided such package be of considerable size, at
least larger than three inches in length and one and a half inches
in width." Of all the justices of this court, Chief Justice 'ar-

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BREWER, SmIRAs, PECKHAM

and the

CHIEF JUSTICE,

dissenting.

shall has hitherto been credited with marvelous accuracy of
statement, but it would seem from the construction now given
that he omitted a most important particular in defining the
relative powers of the nation and the State. Even now there
is a singular failure to give the size of the package which takes
the importation out of the power of Congress and entrusts it
to the control of the State. Recently, in Schollenberg' v. Penn8yvania, 171 U. S. 1, we held that an importer had a right to
import oleomargarine in ten-pound packages, and sell it in such
a package at retail to a consumer. Apparently, the dividing
line as to the size of packages must be somewhere between that
of a ten-pound package of oleomargarine and that of a package
of ten cigarettes; but where? Must diamonds, in order to be
within the protecting power of the natiorL, be carried from
State to State in ten-pound packages?.
If it be said that diamonds are not a subject of police regulation, and that a different rule obtains in reference to them
than to matters of police regulation, (as might be implied from
the scope of the opinion,) I can only say that the conclusion
seems to me strange. Concretely, it amounts to this: The
police power of the State, the power exercised to preserve the
health and morals of its citizens, may prevent the importation
and sale of a pint of whiskey, but cannot prevent the importation and sale of a barrel; or, in other words, the greater the
wrong which is supposed to be done to the morals and health of
the community, the less the power of the State to prevent it.
That may be constitutional law, but to my mind it lacks the
saving element of common sense. I see no logical half way
place between a recognition of the power of the nation to regulate commerce between the States in all things which are the
subjects of commerce (in whatever form or manner they may
be imported) and a concession of the. power of the State to
prevent absolutely the importation and sale of articles deemed
by it prejudicialto the health or morals of its citizens. -Either the
State has, in the exercise of its police power, the right to prohibit.
the importation and sale of articles deemed by it injurious to
the health and morals of the community-no matter in what
size or form of package the importation is made-or else it has no

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWER, SHIBAS, PEOxEAzi and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

such power, and the determination of the question of importation
and sale is one to be left to Congress. The attitude of one who
affirms the supreme power of the Nation over interstate commerce, including therein the right of Congress tb regulate the
importation- and sale in large packages of things whether or not
deemed by any State deleterious in their use, and yet holds that
that supreme power of Congress is exhausted the moment the
importation is in a package of small size, Jfinds something of a
parallel in the attitude of the citizen of a State, which has
adopted prohibition, who upholds the law, but objects to its
enforcement.
The size of the package seems to be the troublesome matter
in the minds of some of my brethren. Let me put that question of size to this test. Suppose Congress, assuming that it
had power over interstate commerce, should enact that all transportation of cigarettes between States should be in packages of
ten cigarettes each, would that be a regulation of interstate commerce? Or would my brethren say that that was beyond the
power of Congress? The power of Congress over commerce
between the States is given in the same section and in the same
language as its power over commerce between this Nation and
foreign nations. Is this court prepared to say that, if Congress
should enact that no importations of cigarettes from abroad
should be otherwise than in packages of ten cigarettes each,
such legislation was beyond its power because it affected a package of a small size? Mr. Justice White, evidently appreciating
the logic of these suggestions, escapes their force by this declaration, and I quote from his opinion that which succeeds the
quotation heretofore made:
"I am constrained to conclude that this question is correctly
answered in the negative, not only from the size of each particular parcel, but from all the other surrounding facts and circumstances, among which may be mentioned the trifling value
of each parcel, the absence of an address on each, and the fact
that many parcels, for the purpose of commercial shipment,
were aggregated, thrown into and carried in an open basket.
Thus associated in their shipment, they could not, under all the

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JusTIcEs BREWRn,SHIBAs, PECKHA

and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

facts and circumstances of the case, after arrival be segregated
so as to cause each to become an original package."
I regret that the decision of a great constitutional question
like that here presented turns on the shifting opinions of individual judges as to the peculiar facts of a particular case. No
one can tell from this annunciation where is the dividing line
between the power of the State and the power of the nation.
Obviously the mere size of the package does not in this view
determine. It would seem that constitutional limitations should
be stated by the courts with precision. I think, and I say it
with all respect, that no case involving a constitutional question should be turned off on the simple declaration that upon
its peculiar facts it falls on one side or the other of some undisclosed line of demarcation. It seems to me, and yet I speak
hesitatingly, in view of the indefiniteness of his declarations,
that Mr. Justice White thinks there was something in the conduct of this importer in evasion of the state statute. But can
any statute be deemed to be evaded which has no application
to ihe particular matter? If the regulation of interstate commerce is a matter within the sole jurisdiction of Congress, surely
no act of the State restraining an importation and sale can have
any application thereto. If the State may not say whether the
importation shall be in large or small packages, if that is a regulation of interstate commerce within the sole power of the United
States, then no act of the importer in fixing the size of the package can be adjudged either in conflict with or an evasion of any
state statute. There is but one of two alternatives. Either the
State may regulate the size of the package or Congress has the
power. If a State has the right, then of course it may prevent
the importation of packages other than those of a large size;
but if Congress alone can regulate it, then the State has nothing to do with the question of the size of the package, and no
act of the importer in fixing the size of the package can be adjudged in conflict with its statute.
Congress has prescribed the sizes of the packages in which
cigarettes are to be put up, and while it is true, as indicated in
Plumley v. .fassachusetts, 155 U. S. 461, that the primary purpose of such legislation is the collection of internal revenue

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
JusTIcEs BREWEE, SHIBAS, PEoEHAm and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

taxes, and not the regulation of commerce between the States,
yet it is also true that it is not within the power of the States to
declare that the use of packages of the size prescribed by Congress is illegitimate. There cannot be imputed to Congress the
purpose to in any way interfere with the full power of the
States over matters committed to their care, nor can the use by
an individual of packages such as Congress has authorized be
condemned as an evasion of state laws. The use of such a
package legitimate for one purpose is legitimate for others, and
a State by its statutes cannot in any way nullify or weaken the
effect of congressional enactment. So, although these packages
are small in size, they have the approbation of Congress and
must be considered as legal, and their use cannot be made illegal by state laws.
And here it is well to refer to the language of Chief Justice
Marshall, quoted, s8ura. It is: "In the original form or package in which it was imported." Not in which "it might have
been" .or "ought to have been imported." Obviously, it did
not occur to him that the form or package which the importer
might adopt in any way affected the power of Congress over
the importation. One will se.arch the opinion of the Chief Justice in vain to ascertain the size or form of the package then
before the court. If Congress should see fit to describe a form
or package, it was within its power. If it did not do so, it left
the matter to the determination of the importer. There seems
to be in'the minds of those of my brethren with whom I differ
the thought that, because this importer did not import in a
customary way, the control of Congress in the matter ceased.
The cost of transporting a single package of cigarettes from the
manufactory in Durham, N. C., to any part of Tennessee may
be great, and therefore such transportation is not ordinarily
undertaken. It may be true, and undoubtedly is true, that a
nianufacturer of yeast cakes in the city of New York would
not feel warranted in going to the expense of shipping a single
yeast cake, or, for that matter, a hundred, to Covington, Ky.,
and yet that same individual, if he had a manufactory in Cincinnati, might find that the most convenient and inexpensive
way of filling orders from Covington was to send thdm in sep-

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JUSTICES BnEwEn, SHIRAS, PEcKHAm and the CMEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

arate packages in his delivery wagons across the bridge from the
one city to the other. In each case the transportation would,
be one of interstate commerce, and it cannot be possible that
Congress has the power to re'ulate the transportation from N~ew
York to Covington and not that from Cincinnati to Covington.
Another matter which must not be ignored in measuring the
control of Congress over interstate commerce is the changes in
the modes of transportation. At the time that Chief Justice
Marshall wrote the opinion in B'own v. .Waryland transportation was carried on by water in sailing vessels and by land
largely in lumber wagons. It is not strange that at such time
all transportation was of goods packed .in large boxes, securely
fastened to prevent accidents from the rough and tumble way
of transportation. There were then no express companies for
carrying small packages. All that mode of transportation has
grown up in this country within the last sixty years, but the
express companies carrying their small packages from State to
State are just as certainly engaged in interstate commerce as
the old-fashioned lumber wagons carrying commodities between
the same places. The facilities of transportation are increasing rapidly, and with them the cost of such transportation is
diminishing, so that more and more will it be true that the
smallest packages will be the frequent subject of transportation,
even between State and State. But it has often been said that
the grants of power in the Constitution.to the national government were expressed in such broad and general language that,
notwithstanding the many changes in the modes of doing business, in the forms and conditions of social life, the needed control was still found to be vested in Congress. Can it be that an
exception to this rule is now to arise in the matter of the full
and complete power given by that instrument to Congress over
interstate commerce?
Again, let me go back to the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall, and quote pages 439-446:
"There is no difference, in effect, between a power to prohibit the sale of an article, and a power to prohibit its introduction into the country. The one would be a necessary consequence
VOL.

OLXIX-:-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES BREWEB, SHmAs, PECKHA

and the CmEir JusTICE, dissenting.

of the other. No goods would be imported if none could be
sold.
"If this power reaches the interior of a State, and may be
there exercised, it must be capable of authorizing the sale of
those articles which it introduces. Commerce is intercourse;
one of its most ordinary ingredients is traffic. It is inconceivable that the power to authorize this traffip, when given in the
most comprehensive terms, with the intent that its efficacy
should be complete, should cease at the point when its continuance is indispensable to its value. To what purpose should the
power to allow importation be given, unaccompanied with the
power to authorize a sale of the thing imported.? Sale is
the object of importation, and is an essential ingredient of
that intercourse, of which importation constitutes a part. It
is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the existence
of the entire thing, then, as importation itself. It must be considered as a component part of the power to regulate commerce.
Congress has a right, not only to authorize importation, but to
authorize the importer to sell."
Now, if cigarettes cannot be brought into the State of Tennessee and sold in the packages in which they were manufactured, but must be brought in and sold only in barrels or boxes
of large size, the right of importation is practically defeated,
for no consumer would buy a barrel or box for his own use, and
no importer could sell it to a second party with the idea of a
resale, because the moment the first sale is accomplished, the
law of the State interposes to prevent the second. In other
words, this contention that an imported package must be of a
large size in order to secure the right of sale is simply a convenient way of declaring that the right of importation for purposes of sale maybe denied. Not such was the thought of this
court, as expressed in the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall.
The idea then was that the right of sale was an incident to the
right to import; that the State could neither directly forbid the
importation, nor indirectly prevent it by embarrassing the right
of sale with restrictions which, in fact, stop all importation for
purposes of sale.

AUSTIN v. TENNESSEE.
JusTICEs BREwER, SH

AS, PEcxHAm and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

I do not doubt that the importation and sale of many things
may wisely be restrained, but the question is as to the body by
which such regulations shal be made. We may all agree that
the importation and sale of liquors should be restrained or prohibited. We may doubt as to whether a like rule obtains as to
the importation and sale of oleomargarine. Believing that the
settled ruling of this court has been that that question is one to
be determined by Congress, I think that this decision is a plain
departure therefrom.
Nor is there rehson to apprehend that any unfortunate results
will flow from the supreme power of Congress in the matter.
Take the case of intoxicating liquors. When it was found by
the decision in .Leisy v. Uardi, supra,that interstate commerce
in such liquors (they being recognized articles of commerce) could
not be regulated by the States, Congress promptly passed an act
providing that liquors imported into any State should upon arrival therein be subject to the local laws, 26 Stat. 313, c. 728,
the validity of which legislation was sustained in In re Rahrer,
140 U. S. 545. So it cannot be doubted that if that body which
represents all the States shall be of opinion that the use of any
particular article is freighted with injury to public health, morals or safety, it will absolutely prohibit interstate commerce
therein, or if in its judgment (as in the case of intoxicating
liquors) there is in certain localities such a feeling in reference
to any article that commerce therein may wisely be regulated'
by the State, it will provide therefor. Although some temporary disadvantage or inconvenience may result from this assertion of the supremacy of Congress, it is not fitting, in view of
the constitutional provisions, to ignore or limit the full scope
of that supremacy; and, it may properly be added, it is better
that in certain instances one State should be subjected to temporary annoyance rather than that the whole framework of
commercial unity created by the Constitution should be de
stroyed by relegating to each State the determination of what
particular articles it will permit to be imported into its borders.
"The power cannot be conceded to a State to exclude, directly or indirectly, the subjects of interstate commerce, or,
by the imposition' of burdens thereon, to regulate such corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

merce, without congressional permission. The same rule that
applies to the sugar of Louisiana, the cotton of South Carolina,
the wines of California, the hops of Washington, the tobacco of
aryland and Connecticut, or the products, natural or manufactured, of any State, applies to all commodities in which a
right of traffic exists, recognized by the laws of Congress, the
decisions of courts, and the usages of the. commercial world.
It devolves on Congress to indicate sudh exceptions as in its
judgment a wise discretion may demand under particular circumstances." -Lyng v. JXichigan, 135 U. S.161, 166.
For these reasons I dissent from the opinions and judgment
in this case.
I am. authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE
JUSTIc E PECKHAMi concur in this dissent.

SHnIAs and MR.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 103. Argued November 13,14, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1900.

The separate coach law of Kentucky, being operative only within the State,
and having been construed by the Supreme Court of that State'as applicable only to domestic commerce, is not an infringement upon the exclusive power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.

THIS was a writ of error to review the conviction of the Railway C6mpany for failing to furnish separate coaches for the
transportation of white and colored passengers on the line of
its road, in compliance with a statute of Kentucky enacted
May 24, 1892, c. 40, the first section of which reads as follows:
" 1. Any railroad company or corporation, person or persons, running or otherwise operating railroad cars or coaches
by steam or otherwise, on any railroad line or track within this

