OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

afternoon of October 25, 1894. While so held, awaiting orders
for further movement, the cars and contents were destroyed
by the fire in question.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a decree which had
been entered by the Circuit Court in favor of the claimant.
Applying the principles declared in the opinion delivered in the
]Iuntting E-levator Company case,
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed
and the decree of the Circuit Court of the United Statesfor
the Southern District of Illinois ajffrmed.

BOSWOIRTH v. CARR, RYDER &,ENGLER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 14. Argued October 24, 25, 1899.-Decided December 17, 1900.
This case having been argued with No. 12, ante, 415, at the same time, and
by the same counsel, the decision of the court in that case is followed in
this.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr.'Bluford Wilson for Bosworth.
.3r. Burton Harrison for the Carr, Ryder & Engler Company.
MRi. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim presented on this record was for the value of a
quantity of manufactured doors, sash, blinds and moldings,
shipped from Dubuque, Iowa, on October 20, 1894, and consigned to the May & Thomas Hardware Company, Birmingham, Alabama, by way of East St. Louis. The car containing

REYMANN BREWING CO. v,. BRISTER.
Syllabus.

the merchandise in question was received by the Peoria Company from the connecting carrier, and, at about three o'clock
on the afternoon of October 28, 1894, was deposited in its portion of the yard of the Terminal Association at EastSt. Louis
set apart for the use of the Peoria Company, under the agreement referred to in the opinion just delivered in Iluntting Elevator Conpay v. Boswarth, No. 12 of this term. On the night
of the date last mentioned the car and contents were destroyed
by the same fire which consumed or damaged the property of
the Ituntting Elevator Company. Both of the bourts below
decreed the liability of the Peoria Company, the Court of Appeals declaring that "though in the physical possession, under
its agreement with the receiver, of the car in which the goods
were being transported, the Terminal Association had not become responsible as a carrier therefor, because it had not been
put in possession of a way bill or other form of information on
which it could proceed with the carriage." It necessarily results from the views expressed by us in the JtrnttingElevatar
Company case that the courts below did not err in the decrees
rendered by them upon this claim.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming that of
the Circuit Court, is accordingly

AfJii'med.

REYMANN BREWING COMPANY v. BRISTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF 01110.
No. 76. Submitted November 7. 1900.-Decided December 17, 1900.

The statute of Ohio, known as the Dow law, 83 Ohio Laws, 157, which levies
a tax upon the business of trafficking in spirituous, vinous, malt or any
intoxicating liquors, carried on within the. State, is not in conflict with
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States when applied to
a corporation of West Virginia, having its principal place of business in
Wheeling in that State, and manufacturing there beer which it sends in
barrels, or wooden cases uontaining several bottles each, to Ohio for sale,

