ROTHSCHILD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

that either provision (paragraph 108 or paragraph 454) equally
applied, the statute prescribed the rule to be that "if two or
more rates of duty shall be applicable to any imported article,
it shall pay duty at the highest of such rates." Section 5.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Apeale is reversed,
and that !ofthe Circuit Court is afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECEHAm

dissented.

ROTHSCHILD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCI

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 59. Argued October 31, November 1, 190.-DeeidedDecember 17, 190.
It is the meaning of the tariff act of Jdly 24, 1897, to subject to different
rates of duty the leaves of tobacco suitable for cigar wrappers and those
not suitable when mixed in the same commercial bale or package.'
It is the meaning of said act to subject to the duty of one dollar and eightyfive cents per pound the leaves of tobacco suitable for cigar wrappers
intermingled in the bales or packages of tobacco (unstemmed) of the
description which, in their entirety at the date of the enactment, were
commercially known in this country as "filler tobacco," and bought and
sold by that name, notwithstanding such leaves constitute less than fifteen per centum of the contents.

THIS case is here ion certificate of the Court of Appeals of
the Second Circuit. The case went to that court by appeal
from the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York
which reversed a decision of the board of general appraisers.
87 Fed. Rep. 798.
The statement of facts made by the Circuit Court of Appeals
is as follows:
(IThe appellant imported from San Domingo into the port of
New York in September, 189T, certain bales of unstemmed leaf

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel.

tobacco, the product of San'Domingo, in which bales there was
mixed or packed with filler tobacco less than four per centum
of leaves suitable for wrappers. The collector of the port assessed duty upon the leaves of filler tobacco in each bale at the
rate of thirty-five cents per pound, and upon the leaves suitable
for wrapper at one dollar and eighty-five cents Per pound, assuming to do so conformably with the provisions of the tariff
act of July 21, 1897, (Schedule F; 213, 214,) imposing duty on.
wrapper and filler tobacco as follows: 'Par. 213. Wrapper tobacco and filler tobacco when mixed or packed with more than
fifteen per centum of wrapper tobacco, and all leaf tobacco the
product of two or more countries or dependencies, when mixed
or packed together, if unsteinined, one dollar and eighty-five
cents per pound; if stemmed, two dollars and fifty cents per
popnd; filler tobacco not specially provided for in this act, if
unstemmed, thirty-five cents per pound; if stemmed, fifty cents
per pound.' ' Par. 214. The term wrapper tobacco as used in
this act means thAt quality of leaf tobacco which is suitable
for cigar wrappers, and the term filler tobacco means all other
leaf tobacco.'"
The following questions are propounded:
" 1. Is it the meaning of the tariff act of July 24, 1897, to
subject to different rates of duty the leaves of tobacco suitable
for cigar wrappers and those not suitable when mixed in the
same commercial bale or package ?
" 2. Is it the meaning of said act to subject to the duty of
one dollar and eighty-five cents per pound the leaves of tobacco
suitable for cigar wrappers intermingled in the bales or packages of tobacco (unstemmed) of the description which, in their
entirety at the date of the enactment, were commercially known
in this country as ' filler tobacco,' and bought and sold bythat
name, notwithstanding such leaves constitute less than fifteen
per centum of the contents?"
.r.-.E. R. Gunby and i&. H. T. Cookinham for Rothschild.
.Xr. John S. Mise for the United States.

ROTHSCHILD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTiCE McK~xNA, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In paragraph 214, the statute defines wrapper tobacco to be
that quality of leaf tobacco which is suitable for cigar *rappers, and filler tobacco to be all other leaf tobacco. Paraphrasing the paragraph and paragraph 214, Judge Lacombe classified
the tobacco, and assigned duty as follows:
"A duty of 35 cents per pound shall he paid on (A) all leaf
tobacco not suitable for cigar wrappers and not otherwise provided for.
"A duty 6f one dollar and eighty-five cents per pound shall
be paid on"(A) All leaf tobacco of any kind, and wherever grown,
which may be packed or mixed with any other leaf tobacco,
which other tobacco is the product of any other country or dependency.
"(B) All leaf tobacco not suitable for cigar wrappers, which
shall be found to be mixed or packed with more than fifteen per
cent of tobacco which is suitable for cigar wrappers.
"(0) All leaf tobacco suitable for cigar wrappers."
To this classification the appellants oppose that of the board
of appraisers, as follows:
"First. Wrapper tobacco.
"Sond. Filler tobacco mixed or packed with more than 15
per cent of wrapper tobacco.
"Third. All otherflIer tobacco."
If the classification of Judge Lacombe is correct the questions
certified should be answered in the affirmative; if the classification of the board of appraisers is correct they should be answered
in the negative.
The language and arrangement of paragraph 213 supports
Judge Lacombe. Regarding the language of the paragraph
alone, it requires some ingenuity to create ambiguity. Dealing
with wrapper tobacco, the paragraph provides, "wrapper tobacco

.

.

.

$1.85 per lb."

That is all unstemmed wrapper

tobacco. There is no limitation or exception whatever. Dealing with filler tobacco, the paragraph provides, "filler tobacco,
VOL. CLXXiX-30

OCTOBER TERMW, 1900.

Opinion of the Court.

when mixed or packed with more than 15% of wrapper tobacco,
if unstemmed, $1.85 per lb.; if stemmed, $2.00 per lb.; filler
tobacco not specially provided for in- this act, if unstemmed,
35 cts. per lb.; if stemmed, 50 cts. per lb." In other words, so
mixed, and as it is stemmed or unstemmed, $2.00 or $1.85 per
lb. Filler not so mixed, as it is stemmed or unstemmed, 50 cts.
or 35 cts. per lb. But all wrapper tobacco is dutiable at least
at $1.85. There is no condition except being stemmed or unstemmed that excepts any part of it or affects the rate upon it.
And all filler tobacco is dutiable, but not all at the same rate.
There is a condition which affects the rate. That condition is
to be mixed with wrapper tobacco. The statute deals with each
kiind of tobacco separately. It does not qualify wrapper; it
does qualify filler-mix wrapper with filler to the extent of
more than 15-per cent and the wrapper does not become dutiable as filler-but filler becomes dutiable as wrapper-the mixture becomes in legal effect wrapper, and is 'dutiable at the same
rate.
The appellants contest this interpretation, and contend that
wrapper so mixed with filler, by the very trms of the statute
escapes duty or would escape duty, "except that it falls under
the last clause of the statute and is to be classified as filler tobacco, not specially provided for in this act." If this contention is justified, it would seem as if wrapper tobacco becomes
filler even by name and the provisions of the statute are reversed,
and their care to make wrapper dutiable and prevent and penalize evasions of the duty becomes a means of either exempting
fifteen per.cent of it from duty or making it dutiable only as
filler.
Considerations outside of the statute are, however, urged as
tests of its meaning, and two propositions are advanced which,
it is claimed, Congress must be presumed to have known and
to which it addressed its legislation.
These are, (1) that in commerce and among dealers in leaf
tobacco the bale is the unit; (2) there is in bales of wrapper a
certain amount of filler, and in filler bales there may be a small
per cent of wrapper, but in trade it is not recognized. It is
therefore contended (and we quote counsel) "that the words

ROTHSCHILD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

'wrapper tobacco' in this section (213) have reference; to the

commercial terms 'wrapper tobacco,' meaning thereby bales of
tobacco known as wrapper, although in every bale there is a
quantity of tobacco not suitable f6r wrapper." That is not the
tobacco as such, but the form of its importation determines the
duty. The bale is the unit, and the unit must always be regarded. The different kinds of tobacco cannot be separated;
they mingle in the unit bale as (the illustration is) different percentages of blood mingle in an animal, and by holding in mind
that the bale is the unit, it will be seen that wrapper tobacco
(fifteen per cent or less) cannot be "segregated and assessable
as such any more logically than could the fifteen per cent of
Holstein blood in an eighty-five per cent Ayreshire cow'."?
But the difficulty is not holding in mind the idea that the
bale is the unit, but in accepting it. To accept it we should
have to impose it upon the statute. It is certainly not there by
expression, and it is not new. It was contended for under the
act of 1883 and supported by about the same arguments upon
which it is now attempted to be supported. It was rejected in
Falk v. .Robertson, 137 U. S. 225, in which the leaf and not the
bale was decided to be the unit, and the act of 1883 dealt with
percentages as much as the. act of 1897. The act of 1883 provided that "leaf tobacco of which eighty-five per cent is of the
requisite size and of the necessary fineness of texture to be suitable for wrappers, and of which more than one hundred leaves
are required to weigh a pound, if not stemmed, §eventy-five
cents per pound; if stemmed, one dollar per pound. All other
tobacco in leaf, unmanufactured, and not stemmed, thirty-five
cents per pound."
But it is claimed that Falkc v. Robertson is distinguishable
from the case at the bar in that the different kinds of tobacco
were not mingled, but were carefully separated and distinguishable in quantity and quality. Upon principle we think the
difference does not dis.tinguish the case from that at bar. The
contention is besides answered by Erhardt v. Schroeder, 155
U. S. 124, 133. To the claims of the parties -one that the bale
was the unit - the other that the different kinds of tobacco
were, the court, by Mr. Justice Shiras, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

"The proper answer to this question seems to depend upon
the particular circumstances of a given case.
"If, then, a bale or other separate and concrete quantity of
leaf tobacco contained only leaves of such uniformity of character as to be, in their collective form, of one class, the bale, or
other separate, collection, would be the unit contemplated in
the percentage and weight tests of paragraph 246. On the
other hand, if the bale contained tobacco of two classes, the
unit would be the ascertained quantity of either class."
It is conceded that in Erhardt v. Schroeder it was decided
that the bale was not the unit, but it is claimed that the decision was based upon the fact that the "whole importation was
wrapper, and it made no difference what the unit was as the
result would be the same if the wrapper tobacco in every bale
was eighty-five per cent." We think not. Tobacco of different
kinds in one bale was respectively assessed at seventy-five cents
and thirty-five cents a pound. The tobacco in the other bales
was assessed at seventy-five cents a pound. The claim of the importers was that it all should have been assessed at thirty.five
cents, and in passing on the diverse contentions of the parties it
was decided that the statute did niot make an inflexible unit.
-What the unit would be, it was said, would depend upon the
"particular circumstances of a given case." And speaking of
the bale as such unit the court used the language we have already quoted.
Succeeding the act of 1883 came the act of 1890, 26 Stat.
c. 1244.1 Paragraph 242 provided as follows:
"Leaf tobacco, suitable for cigar wrappers, if not stemmed,
$2 per lb. Provided, That if any portion of any tobacco imported in any bale, box or package, or in bulk, shall be suitable
for cigar wrappers, the entire quantity of tobacco contained in
such bale, box or package, or bulk, shall be dutiable; if not
stemmed, at $2 per lb. ; if stemmed, at $2.75 per lb.
"All other tobacco in leaf unmanufactured and not stemmed,
35c. per lb.; if stenimed, 50c. per lb."
This language is seemingly very explicit .as to the duties on
the different kinds of tobacco, and very unambiguous as to the

ROTHSCHILD r. UNITED' STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

effect of mingling them in bale, bag, package or bulk. And
Circuit Judge Coxe pronounced it so in Staohelherg et al. r.
United States, 72 Fed. Rep. 50.
We are, however, referred to an opinion of the board of appraisers, in the matter of the protest of Emilio Pons & Co.,
which, it is claimed, was an administrative interpretation of
such paragraph, which not only determined its meaning but
the meaning of the provisions of subsequent laws.
The importation passed upon was of Havana tobacco, and
the conclusions of the board were very disputable even on the
specific facts of that case. The board found there was well
defined difference between Havana wrappe* and filler and that
in the best selected grades of each there was from five to fifteen
per cent of the other, and that filler bales having less than fifteen per cent of wrapper were not recognized in trade as filler
having any portion suitable for wrappers; over that percentage
the bales were known as part wrapper, and also known as selfworking bales. From these facts the board concluded that less
than fifteen per cent was not an appreciable quantity, and made
the following special finding of facts:
"(1) That the tobacco is semi-Vuelta, uniform in quality,
length and color, and is of the kind known in trade as Havana
filler tobacco, leaf, unstemmed.
"(2) That it contains from 10 to 15 per cent of leaves that
can be used for wrappers for inferior cigars, but no portion
thereof is of the quality known as wrapper tobacco.
1"(3) That it is of a kind used exclusively by larger manufacturers of cigars as fillers for cigars.
"We hold that, within the meaning of the statute, there is
no portion of the tobacco covered by this protest suitable for
wrappers for cigars.
"The protest is sustained."
Counsel for the appellants say that the reasoning and spirit
of this decision was accepted by the Treasury Department, but
that its percentage was rejected. And well it might have been.
The act which expressed in clear and definite words that the
effect of mixing "any portion" of wrapper tobabco with filler
tobacco in an importation was to make "the entire quantity"

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

dutiable as wrapper, was interpreted to admit at filler duty
fifteen per cent of wlapper, a fraction less than was necessary
to make a working bale, a bale with enough wrapper to use up
the filler. This was a very liberal application of the maxim
which ,expresses the disregard of the law for small things. If
Congress did not intend to penalize an accidental or inevitable
mixing of some leaves of wrapper with filler, it certainly did
not intend to defeat or weaken its legislation. Giving the bale
as a unit. as contended for; giving a fraction less than fifteen
per cent of its contents, though wrapper to be admitted at filler
duty, how much wrapper would be otherwise imported?
However, the decision was rendered; how far was it a factor
in determining the provisions of the act of August 27, 1894-,
(the Wilson act) and that of 1897, the act under consideration,
must be passed upon.
Of the Wilson act we need only quote the following:
"Wrapper tobacco, unstemmed, imported in any bale, box,
package or in bulk, $1.50 per lb.; if stemmed, $2.25 per lb.
"Filler tobacco, unstemmed, imported in any bale, box, package or in bulk, 35c. per lb. if stemmed 50c. per lb. Provided,
that the term wrapper tobacco, whenever used in this act, shall
be taken to mean the quality of leaf tobacco known commercially as wrapper tobacco.
"Provided further: That the term filler, whenever used in
this act, shall be taken to mean all leaf tobacco unmanufactured,
not commercially known as wrapper tobacco.
*.

*

*,

*

*-

*

*

*

"Provided further: That if any bale, box, package or bulk
of leaf tobacco, of uniform quality, contains exceeding 15%
thereof of leaves, suitable in color, fineness of texture and size for
wrappers for cigars, then the entire contents of such bale, box,
package or bulk shall be subject to the same duty as wrapper
tobacco."
As it will be observed, the act was more circumstantial than
the act of 1890. It defines wrapper tobacco as meaning that
" quality of leaf tobacco known commerciallyas wrapper." And
filler to mean "all leaf tobacco unmanufactured, not commercially known as wrapper tobacco." It did not provide, as the act

ROTSCHItLD v. UNITED" STATES.
Opipion of the Couit.

of 1890 provided, if any portion of any tobacco imported be wrapper the entire quantity should be dutiable as wrapper. It fixed
the wrapper which would have that effect at an amount exceeding fifteen per cent of leaves in any bale, box, package or bulk
.
uitable in color,
of leaf tobacco of uniform quality
fineness of texture and size, for cigars.
If anything can be inferred from the qualifications which we
have put in italics as connecting the act with the decision of the
board of appraisers in the Pon8 case the inference must be
dropped as to the act of 1897. All those qualifications are
omitted except that the quantity of wrapper tobacco in the importation which will .affect with wrapper duty the filler with
which it is mixed is retained. But it is retained in such context,
as we have already said, so as not to exempt any wrapper. tobacco from duty as such, though it may charge filler tobacco
with wrapper duty. It would make this opinion too long to
-analyze the Wilson act. We are inclined to think it should be
interpreted as we have interpreted the act of 1897. But if we*
concede the construction of the appellants, it can only come
from the qualifying words we have indicated. If their presence
in the Wilson act determines the construction contended for,
their absence from the act of 1897 determines against the construction of the latter act contended for, as it is also determined
against by the character of the act. It precludes the view that
any wrapper tobacco is to be admitted to importation under
filler duty. And why should it be? There is nothing in the
trade conditions urged upon our consideration which requires it.
The mixing of the tobacco which may accidentally or necessarily attend the manner of picking and packing is provided for,
and the indulgence of the statute so clearly expressed and defined. should not be extended to exempt any portion of either
tobacco from its full duty by assuming or accepting the arbitrary idea that the statute addressed itself to bales of tobacco
and not to the tobacco in the bales.
We therefore anawer the questionw certiied by the Circuit
Court of peals in the affirmative.

