OCTO3ER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Affiliated Bands, of Indians reserved the right of the latter to
prefer against the United States any and every claim they believed they had the right to make, the only suit authorized by
the jurisdictional act of 1895 was one that would determine
the claim of the Choctaws and Chickasaws of an interest in
the particulaZrlands here in dispute,and the claim of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands to be compensated in money for their
possessory right in such lands. No suit was authorized by that
act that would embrace any and every claim that the Wichita
and Affiliated Bands might elect to prefer against the United
States.
For the reasons given the decree must be reversed with directions to dismiss the petition of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Natiois, and to make a decree in behalf of the Wichita and
Affiliated Bands of Indians fixino the amount of compensation
to be made to them on account of such lands in. the Wichita
Reservation as are not needed in order to meet the requirements of the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 188, and for
such further proceedings as may be consistent with law and with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR, ALDER-

MEN AND COMMONALTY
OERTIORA._RI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.1.

Argued April 17,1899.-Decided December 24,1900.

In June, 1893, the Linda Park was moored to a dock at pier 48, East River,
New York City. While there she was struck and injured by the steam
fire-boat New Yorker, as it was running into the slip between piers 48 and
49, for the purpose of getting near another fire-boat then in the slip. Both
boats had been called to aid in extinguishing a fire in a warehouse near
the slip bulkhead. A libel was filed by Workman in the District Court
of the United States to recover for the damage obcasioned to his vessel

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

553

Statement of the Case.
by the collision. This libel was amended by adding as respondents the
fire departmentof New York and Gallagher, who was in charge of the navigation of the New Yorker and the pecessary allegations were made. The
District Court entered a decree in favor of the libellant against the city and
Gallagher, and dismissed the libel as to the fire department. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the decree against Gallagher and in favor of
the fire department, but reversed that portion which held the city liable. The case being brought here on certiorari, it is held that the District Court rightly decided that the mayor, aldermen and commonalty
of the city of New York were liable for the damages sustained by the
owner of the Linda Park.
Where both courts belowhave concurred in a finding of fact, it will, inthis
court, be accepted as conclusive, unless it affirmatively appears that the
lower courts obviously erred.
The local decisions of a state court cannot, as a matter of authority, abrogate maritime law.
Under the general maritime law, where the relation of master and servant
exists, an owner of an offending vessel, committing a maritime tort is
responsible, under the rule of respondeatsuperior.
There is no limitation taking municipal corporations out of the reach of
the process of a court of admiralty.
The public nature of the service upon which a vessel is engaged, at the
time of the commission of a maritime tort, affords no immunity from
liability in a court of admiralty, when the court has jurisdiction.
While it is true that the emergency of fire was an element to be considered,
in determining whether or not those in charge of the fire-boat were negligent, it does not follow that it exempted from the exercise of such due
care as the occasion required towards property which was in the path of
the fire-boat as it approached the slip.
A ship, by whomsoever owned or navigated, is liable for an actionable injury resulting from the negligehce of the master and crew of the vessel.
A recovery can be had in personam for a maritime tort, when the relation
existing between the owner and the master and crew of the vessel, at the
time of the negligent collision, was that of master and servant.

WORKm.&, the libellant below, was the owner, on June 11,
1893,. of the British barkentine Linda Park. On the date
named, while the vessel was moored to a dock at pier 48 in
the East River in New York City, she was struck and injured
by the steam fire-boat New Yorker. At the time of the collision the New Yorker was running into the slip between piers 48
and 49 for the purpose of getting near to another fire-boat which
had shortly prior thereto safely entered the slip. Both the fireboats had been called in order to aid in extinguishing a fire in
a warehouse situated a distance of eighty-five to one hundred

OCTOBER TERMt, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

feet from the slip bulkhead. To recover the damage occasioned
to his vessel, Workman filed, in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, a libel in personam against the mayor, aldermen and commonalty of the
city of New York. This libel was subsequently amended by
adding the allegations essential to make, as additional respondeuts, the fire department of the city of New York and James
A. Gallagher, the person in charge of the navigation of the
New Yorker at the time of the collision.
The District Court entered a decree in favor of the libellant
against the city of New York and Gallagher, and dismissed the
libel as to the fire department. 63 Fed. Rep. 298.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, to which the case was taken,
affirmed the decree of the District Court against Gallagher and
in favor of the fire department. The appellate court, however,
reversed that portion of the decree of the District. Court which
held the city of New York liable, and remanded the case with
instructions to dismiss the libel as against the city. 35 U. S.
App. 201; 67 Fed. Rep. 34:7.
The case was then brought to this court by the allowance of
a writ of certiorari.
iI&. Hairington Pidnam for Workman.
Burlingham was on his brief.

Xr. C arZes C.

Mr.Theodore Connoly for the Mayor, Aldermen and Commonalty of the city of New York and Gallagher. .A&. John
Whakn and Mr. James X. Ward were on his brief.
MR. JUsTICE WrrE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is clearly deducible from the record that the courts below
concurred in dismissing the libel as against the fire department
of the 6ity of New York, upon the contention made in the
answer of the department that under the provisions of a named
statute of the State of New York, the fire department of the
city of New York was neither a corporation nor a quasicor-

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

555"

Opinion of the Court

poration, but was merely a department of' the city. As no
controversy is made respecting the correctness -of the decree it
this particular, we dismiss this subject from view.
With reference to the decree rendered by both courts against
Gallagher, the district judge held that, giving due consideration
to the emergency of fire, "the running into the Linda Park
arose through lack of reasonable prudence, and was* unnecessary and negligent.". 63 Fed. Rep. 298. The Circiiit Court 6f
Appeals, in its opinion, affirming the decree against Gallagher,
said:
"The evidence in the record adequately supports the conclusion of the court below that the injuries caused to the libellant's
vessel by: the impact of the fire-boat were caused by the negligent manner [management?] of the fire-boat while the latter
was trying to reach a convenient location to-play upon a burning building near the pier at which the libellant's vessel was
moored.1
There is no substantial controversy raised on the record as
to the premise of fact upon which the personal decree against
Gallagher was iendered by both the courts below. And even
if such were not the -case, the facts upon which Gallaghers
liability depends are not now open to controversy, because of
the well settled doctrine that where both courts below have
concurred in a finding of fa t, it will, in this court, be acbepted
as conclusive, unless it affirmatively appears that the lower
courts obviously erred. The Carib P ne, 170 U. S. 655, 658,
and cases thefe cited. It is clear that if it was seriously claimed
that both the courts below had manifestly erred in their appreciation of the facts as to negligence in the management of the
fire-boat, the testimony would not justify the assertion. We
shall therefore no further consider this feature of the case.
In order to elucidate the serious question which arises for
discussion, we briefly state the reasons by which the courts below were led to reach opposing conclusions as to the liability
or non-liability of the city.
The District Court,. on the assumption that the local law
controlled, determined that by that law, as declared in decisions of the courts of the State of-f New York, the city was
-

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1966.
Opinion of the Coutrt.

liable for the injury caused by the negligent management of
its fire-boat. The Circuit Court of Appeals, however, was of
opinion that the city of New York was not answerable for the
injury inflicted, for the reasons which it thus stated. 35 U. S.
App. 204:
"It is familiar law that the officers selected by a municipal
corporation to perform a public service for the general welfare
of the inhabitants or the community, in which the corporation has no private interest, and from which it'derives no special
.benefit or advantage in its corporate capacity, are not to be
regarded as the servants or agents of the municipality, and for
their negligence or want of skill it cannot be held liable. This
is so, notwithstanding such, officers derive their appointment
from, and are paid by, the corporation itself. In selecting and
employing them, the municipality merely performs a political
or governmental function; the duties intrusted to them do not
relate to the exercise of corporate powers; and hence they are
the agents or servants of the public at large. Upon this principle it has uniformly been decided by the courts that municipal
corporations are not liable for the negligence" or wrongful acts
of the officers of the police or health departments committed
'in the course of their 6rdinary employment. Uhlessthe duties
of the officers of the fire department are of a different complexion, and they are the servants of the municipality because
they are engaged in performing one of its corporate functions,
the same principle must extend immunity to the municipality
for the negligent acts of these officers 'and their subordinates.
"It is quite immaterial that the duties of these officers are
defined and the offices created. by the charter or organic law of
the municipality; the test of corporate liability for the acts of
the officers of the municipality depends upon the nature of the
duties with which they are charged; if these, being for the
general good of the public as individual citizens, are governmental, they act -forthe State. If they are those which'primarily and legitimately devolve upon the municipality itself, they
areHaving
its agents."
thus determined the general principle by which the

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.
Opinion of the Court.

liability of the city was to be judged, the court reviewed some
of the decisions of the Court of Appeals of Ndw York, and deduced from them that the city, in the operation of the fire-boat,
performed a governmental and not a corporate fuiction, and,
therefore, under the assumption that the decisions in question
were authoritatively controlling, held the city not liable..
Whilst it is contended at bar that the District Court correctly
decided, considering the local law of New York alone, that the
city wasliable, it is also asserted that even if by such lawv there
was 'no responsibility on the part of the city of New York, nevertheless the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in deciding that
the city was not bound, because by the maritime law the liability existed, and such-law should have controlled, although
the local law was to the contrary.
Wo come then to consider first, whether, in the decision of
the controversy, the local law of the city of New York or the
maritime law should control; and, second, if the case is solely
governed by the maritime law, whether the city of New York
is liable.
In examining the first question, that is, whether the local law
of New York must prevail, though in conflict with the maritime
law, it must be borne in mind that the .issue is not-as was the
case in Detroit v. O8borne, (1890) 135 U. S. 492-whether the
local law governs as to a controversy arising in the courts of
common law or of equity of the United States, but does the
local law, if in conflict with the maritime law, control a court
of admiralty of the United States in the administration of maritime rights and duties, although judicial power with respect to
such subjects has been expressly conferred by the Constitution
(art. III, sec. 2) upon the courts of the United States.
The proposition then which we must first consider may be
thus stated: Although by the maritime law the duty rests upon
courts of admiralty to afford redress for every injury to person
or propeirty wherethe subject-matter is within'the cognizance
of such courts and when the wrongdoer is amenable to process,
nevertheless the admiralty courts must deny all relief whenever
redress for a wrong would not be afforded by the local law of a
articular State or the course of decisions therein. And this, not

558,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

.because, by the rule prevailing in the State, the wrongdoer is not
generally responsible and usually subject to procss of courts of
justice,.but because in th6-commission of a particular act causing direct injury to a person or property it is considered, by the
local debisions, that the wrongdoer is endowed with all the attributes of sovereignty, and therefore as to injuries by it done
to others in the assumed sovereign character, courts are unable
to administer' justice by affording redress for the wrong inflicted.
The practical destruction of a uniform maritime law which
must arise from this premise, is made manifest when it is considered that if it be true that the principles of the general maritime law giving relief for every character. of maritime tort
where the wrongdoer is subject to the jurisdiction of admiralty
courts, can be overthrown by conflicting decisions of state courts,
it would follow that there would be no general maritime law
for the redress of wrongs, as such law would be necessarily one
thing in one State and one in another.; oile thing in one port of
the United States and a different thing in some other port. As
the power to change state laws or state decisions rests with the
state authorities by which such laws are enacted or decisions
rendered, it would come to pass that the maritime law affording relief for wrongs done,',instead of being general and ever
abiding, would be purely local-would be one thing to-day and
another thing to-morrow. That the confusion to result would,
amount to the abrogation of a uniform maritime law is at once
patent.- And the principle by wlich the maritime law would
be thus in part practically destroyed would besides apply to
other subjects specially confided by the Constitution to the Federal government. Thus, if the local la-y, may control the maritime law, it must also govern in the decision of cases arising
under the patent, copyright and commerce clauses of the Constitution. It would result that a municipal corporation, in the
6exercise of administrative powers which the state law determines
to be governmental, could with impunity violate the patent and
copyright laws of the United States or the regulations enacted
by Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution,
such as those concerning the enrollment and licensing of vessels.

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

559

Opinion of the Court.

This follows if a corporation must for a wrong by it done, be
allowed to escape all reparation upon the theory that, though
ordinarily liable to sue and be sued, it possessed in the particular matter the freedom from suit Wvhich attaches to a sovereign.
State.
The disappearance of all symmetry in the maritime law and
the law on the other subjects referred to, which would thus
arise, would, however, not be the only evil springing from the
application of the principle relied on, since the maritime law
which would survive would have imbedded in it a denial of
justice. This must be the inevitable consequence of admitting
the propositi6n which assumes that the maritime law disregards
the rights of individuals to be protected in their persons and
property from wrongful injury, by recognizing that those who
are amenable to the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty are nevertheless endowed with a supposed governmental attribute by
which they can inflict injury upon the person or property of
another, and yet escape all responsibility therefor. It cannot
be doubted that the greater part, if not the whole, of the maritime commerce of the country is either initiated or terminated
in ports where municipal corporations exist. All the vessels,
whether domestic or foreign, in which this vast commerce is
carried on, under the rule referred to, could be subjected to injury and wrong without power to obtain redress, since every
municipality would be hedged about with the attributes of supreme sovereignty. For the principle which would exempt the
municipal owner of a fire-boat from legal responsibility would be
equally applicable to boats used by a street department for the
removal of refuse, to ferries, to pilot boats, to training-schoolr
ships-one of which, it is suggested in argument, the city of
New York now actually operates, and to all other vessels which
the municipality might consider it necessary or desirable to use.
The wrong and injustice which would thus arise need not be
commented upon.
The evil consequences growing from thus implanting in the
maritime law the doctrine that wrong can be done with impunity were very aptly pointed out in M ser8y JDoc7t and H rbour Board, Trusteem, v. G6qbbs, (1866) L. R. 1 H. L. 122. In that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

case it was sought to hold the dock trustees liable for damage
occasioned to a ship and cargo in striking a mud bank while
attempting to enter a dock. The trustees asserted an exemption
on the ground that they did not collect tolls for their own profit,
but merely as trustees for the benefit of the public. Lord Chancellor Cranworth said:
"It would he a strange distinction to persons coming with
their ships to different ports of this country, that in some po~s,
if they sustain damage by the negligence of those who have the
management of the docks, they will be entitled to compensation,
and in others they will not; such a distinction arising, not from
any visible difference in the docks themselves, but from some
municipal difference in the constitution of the bodies by whom
the docks are managed."
And still later, in deciding the case of Currie v. 2Metnight,
(1897) A. C. 97, the House of Lords declared that while the
admiralty law as known in England differs from the common
law of England, and the common law of Scotland differs from
the common law of England, because they were derived from
divergent sources, yet the admiralty laws were derived both liy
Scotland and England from the same source, and "it would be
strange as well as in the highest degree inconvenient if a different'maritime law preiailed in two different parts of the same
island."
Potential, however, as may be these arguments, predicated
on the inherent injustice of the doctrine contended for, and the
serious inconvenience which must result from an attempt to
apply it, we are not thereby relieved from considering the question in a more fundamental aspect. In doing so, it becomes
manifest that the decisions of this court overthrow the assumption that the local law or decisions of a State can deprive of all
rights to relief, in a case where redress is afforded by the maritime law and is sought to be availed of in a cause of action
maritime in its nature and depending in a court of admiralty of
the United States.
In w .Xey City, (1872) 14 Wall. 623, 660, it was held that
Federal courts of admiralty were not governed by state statutes of limitation in the enforcement of maritime liens. In !Ie

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

561

Opinion of the Court.

Lottaw m , (1874) 21 Wall. 558, 5,78, it was held that the
maritime law as accepted and received in this country did not
confer a lien upon a vessel in favor of those.who had furnished
necessqry materials, repairs and supplies for such vessel in her
home port, but that the District Courts of the United States,
having jurisdiction of the contract as a maritime one, might
enforce liens given for its security, even when created by the
state law.
In the course of the opinion, speaking through Mr. Justice
Bradley, the court said (pp. 572, 573,--514):
"Whilst it is true that the great mass of maritime law is the
same in all commercial countries, yet, in each country, peculiarities exist either as to some of the rules or in the mode of enforcing them. Especially is this the case on the outside boundaries of the law, where it comes in contact with or shades off
into the local or municipal law of the particular country and
affects only its own merchants or people in their relations to
each other."
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"That we have a maritime law of our o'vn, operative throughout the United States, cannot be doubted. The general system
of maritime law which was familiar to the lawyers and statesmen of the country when the Constitution was adopted, was
most certainly intended and referred to when it was declared
in that instrument that the judicial power of the United States
shall extend ' to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.'"
"N or does the Constitution attempt to draw the boundary line
between maritime law and local law; nor does it lay down any
criterion for ascertaining that boundary: It assumes that the
meaning of the phrase 'admiralty and maritime jurisdiction' is
well understood. It treats this matter as it does the cognate
ones of common law and equity, when it speaks of ' cases in
law and equity,' or of 'suits at common law,' without defining
those terms, assuming them to be known and understood.
"One thing, however, is unquestionable; the Constitution
must have referred to a system of -lawcoextensive with, and
operating uniformly in, the whole country. It certainly could
VOL. CLXXIX-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not have been the intentiofi to place the rules and limits of
maritime law under the disposal and regulation of the several
States, as that would have defeated the uniformity and consistency at which the Constitution aimed on all subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse of the States with
each other or with foreign States."
In Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phcenio Insurance Co., (1889) 129

U. S. 397, 443, a maritime contract executed in New York was
held to be an American contract, and the local law of New York
was declared not to govern in its construction. In Butler v.
Boston Steamship Company, (1889) 130 U. S. 527-a case growing out of a collision in navigable waters within the territorial
boundaries of Mtassachusetts-it was held that a state statute
could not operate to deprive the owner of the offending ship of
the benefit of the limited liability act, and that state legislatures
could not change or modify the general maritime law. In The
Aax .Aforris,.(1890) 137 U. S. 1, 14, the question for decision
was, whether, in a c6urt of admiralty, in a case where recovery
was sought for personal injuries to the libellant arising from his
negligence, concurring with that of the vessel, "any damages
can be awarded, or whether the libel must be dismissed according to the rule in common law cases." (p. 8.) It was held (p. 15)
that '.The mere fact of the negligence of the libellant as partly
occasioning the injuries to him, when they also occurred partly
through the negligence of the officers of the vessel, does not debar him entirely from a recovery." In The J. . umbell,
(1893) 148 U. S. 1, 17, it was held that any priority given by a
state statute, or by'decisions in common law or in equity, to a
mortgage upon a vessel as against a claim for supplies and necessaries furnished to the vessel in her home port, was immaterial, "and that the Federal courts of the United States, enforcing the lien because it is maritime in its nature, arising out
of the maritime contract, must give it the rank to which it is
entitled by the principles of the maritime and admiralty law."
True, it is well settled that in certain cases where a lien is
given by a state statute, the admiralty courts will enforce rights
so conferred when not in absolute conflict with the admiralty
law. The Lottawanna, (1874) 21 Wall. 558. Moreover, it has

WORKMAN v. NEW- YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

563

Opinion of tho Court.

been decided that although at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution, in courts of admiralty as in courts of common law,
a cause of action for a personal injury abated by the death of
the injured party, nevertheless, when, by a state statute, a right
of recovery in such a case was conferred, the admiralty courts
would recognize and administer the appropriate relief. The
Albert .Dumoi8, (1900) 17 U. S. 257-259, and cases cited. But
such cases afford no foundation for the proposition that.state
laws or decisions can deprive an individual of a right of recovery for a maritime wrong which, under the general -principles
of the admiralty law, he undoubtedly possessed, and can destroy
the symmetry and efficiency of tht law by engrafting therein
a principle which violates the imperative command of such law
that admiralty courts must administer redress for every maritime wrong in every case wher6 they have jurisdictional power
over the person by whom the wrong has been committed. The
cases in question on the contrary but illustrate the alacrity with
which admiralty courts adopt statutes granting the right to relief where otherwise it couicl not be administered by a maritime
court, and they hence do not souport the contention that there is
a want of power in admiralty courts to give redress in every case
'within their jurisdiction where the dluty to do so is imposed by
the maritime law. This distinction ;s well illustrated by the
ruling in The .Max.Xorris, supra. There it was asserted that
by the universal principles of the common law, as well as of the
local laws of the States, no right to recover for a wrong committed could be enforced in favor of one who had himself contributed to the producing cause of the injury. Whilst the
premise was conceded, the soundness of the inference deduced
from it was denied, and it was held that as by the general principles of the maritime law a measure of relief would be afforded
to a person who had suffered a wrong, even although he had
contributed thereto, it wa8 the duty of the admiralty cout to
grant PeZief in accordance with the principles of the maritime
law.
It being then settled that the local decisions of one or more
States cannot, as a matter of authority, abrogate the maritime
law, we are brought to consider whether, under the maritime

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

law, the city of New York was liable for the injury inflicted by
the fire-boat. As a prerequisite to a solution of this question it
is'necessary to determine what relation the city of New York
bore to the fire-boat and those in control of it.
The fire department of the city of New York, as constituted
when the collision in question occurred, was established by
chapter 410 of. the New York Laws of 1882. In the statute it
was declared (see. 27) that "for all purposes the local administration and government of the city and county of New York
shall continue to be in and be performed by the corporation.
aforesaid," i. e. "the mayor, aldermen and commonalty of the
city of New York' By section. 34 were established eleven
enumerated "departments in said city," among them a fire department. By sections 40, 106 and 108, provision was made
for a board of fire commissioners, to act as the executive head
of the department, to be nominated by the mayor, by and with
the consent of the board of aldermen, and to be removable for
cause by the mayor, subject.to the approval of the governor of
the State. The ministerial direction of the affairs of the department, including the preservation of the real and personal
property used by it. was confided to this board of commissioners,
but the city was made liable for all expenses of maintenance
and operation, ant was the owner of all the property of the fire
department. See. 424 et seq. In addition to making the city
liable for all expenses conneoted with the maintenance and
operation of the department, it was provided in section 450 of
the statute that any damage caused by the authorized destruction of buildings to stay the progress of fire should be borne by
the city of New York.
In order to emphasize these material facts we repeat that it
unquestionably appears that the fire department of the city of
New York was an integral branch of the local administration
and government of that city. The ministerial officers who directed the affairs of the department were selected and paid by
the city; all the expenses of the department of every kind and
nature were to be borne by the city, which was bound by all
contracts made for such purpose; all the property of the department, including the 'fire-boats, belonged to the city; and the

WORKMAN v.NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

565

Opinion of the Court.

city was liable in case of an authorized destruction on land of
property of individuals to prevent the spread of a conflagration.
That, upon such a state of things, the relation of master and
servant existed between the city of New York and those in
charge of the fire-boat is clear. And that under the general
maritime law, where the relation of master and servant exists,
an owner of an offending vessel committing a maritime tort is
responsible, under the rule of reqpondeatswperior,is elementary.
Tho 7:e v. Hamind,(1871) 12 Wall. 408; The Plymouth, (1866)
,3Wall. 35.
It is not gainsaid that, as a general rule, municipal corporations, like individuals, may be sued; in other words, that they
are amenable to judicial process for the purpose of compelling
performance of their obligations. True it is, that under the
general law, growing out of the public nature of their duties,
where judgments or decrees ave entered against municipal corporations, such judgments or decrees may not, as a matter of
public policy, be enforced by the levy on property held by the
corporation for public uses. JHeriwether v. Garrett, (1880) 102
U. S. 412.
As a result of the general principle by which a municipal corporation has the capacity to sue and be sued, it follows that
there is no limitation taking such corporations out of the reach
of the process of a court of admiralty, as such couirts, within
the limit of their jurisdiction, may reach persons having a general capacity to stand in judgment. True, also, where admiralty
process has been set in motion against a municipal corporation,
public policy, it has been held, restrains a seizure of property
used for public purposes by such corporation. The Fidelity,
(1879) 16 Blatchford, 569. This conclusion, however, is but the
application of the exception as to the.mode of execution of a
judgment or 'decree against such a corporation, to which we
have referred, and its existence in the admiralty law in all cases
has also been denied. The OysterPoliceSteamers of ffaryland,
(1887) 31 Fed. Rep. 763. Which of these conflicting conclusions, as to the exception in question, is correct, we are not called
upon on the present record to determine, since no levy of process
upon the fire-boat was made or attempted to be made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention is, although the corporation had general capacity to stand in judgment, and Was therefore subject to the
process of a court of admiralty, nevertheless the admiralty court
would afford no redress against the city for the tort complained
of, because under the local law the corporation as to some of
its administrative acts was entitled to be considered as having
a dual capacity, one private, the other public or governmental,
and as to all maritime wrongs committed in the performance
of the latter functions it should be treated by the maritime law
as a sovereign. But the maritime law affords no justification
for this contention, and no example is found in such law, where
one who is subject to suit and amenable to process is allowed
to escape liability for. the commission of a maritime tort, upon
the theory relied upon. We, of course, concede that where
maritime torts have been committed by the vessels of a sovereign, and complaint has been made in a court of admiralty,
that court has declined to exercise jurisdiction, but. this was
solely because of the immunity of sovereignty from suit in its
own courts. So, also, where, in a court of admiralty of one
sovereign, redress is s6ught for a tort committed by a vessel of
war of another nation, it has been held that as by the rule of
international comity the sovereign of another country was not
subject to be impleaded, no redress could be given. Both of
these rules, however, proceed upon the hypothesis of the want
of a person or property before the court over whom jurisdiction
can be exerted. As a consequence, the doctrine above stated
rests not upon the supposed want of power in courts of admiralty to redress a wrong committed by one over whom such
courts have adequate jurisdiction, but alone on their inability
to give redress in a case where jurisdiction over, the person or
property cannot be exerted. In other words, the distinction
between the two classes of cases is that which exists between
the refusal of a court to grant relief because it has no jurisdiction to do so, and the failure of a court to afford redress in a
case where the wrong is admitted and jurisdictional authority
over the wrongdoer is undoubted.
The decisions of this court clearly expound the principles we
have stated. .he
TeEchange,(1812) 7 Cranch,. 116, involved fhe

WORKMAN v.NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

561

Opinion of the Court.
right of a court of admiralty to enforce, by aproceeding in rem,
an alleged maritime claim against a vessel of war of a foreign
nation. The right to relief was denied exclusively because of
a want of jurisdiction over the foreign sovereign or his property.
The Siren,(1869) 7 Wall. 153, involved the liability of a prize
ship in the possession and control of the officers of the United
States foi an injury inflicted by a collision of the ship with another vessel, averred to have been occasioned by the negligent
management of those in charge of the prize ship. In considering the power of the court to adjudicate the controversy, the
court said (p. 185):
"For the damages occasioned by collision of vessels at sea a
claim is created against the vessel in fault, in favor of the injured
party. This claim may be enforced in the admiralty by a proceeding in rem, except where the vessel is the property of the
United States. In such case the claim exists equally as if the
vessel belonged to a private citizen, but for reasons of public
policy, already stated, cannot be enforced by direct proceedings against the vessel. It stands, in that respect, like a claim
against the government, incapable of enforcement without its
consent, and unavailable for any purpose.
"In England, when the damage is inflicted by a vessel belonging to the crown, it was formerly held that the remedy
must be sought against the officer in command of the offending
ship. But the present practice is to file a libel in rem, upon
which the court directs the registrar to write to the Lords of
the Admiralty requesting an appearance on behalf of the crown
-which is generally given-when the subsequent proceedings
to decree are conducted as in other cases. Coote's New Admiralty Practice, 31. In the case of The Athol, 1 W. Robinson,
382, the court refused to issue a monition to the Lords of the Admiralty to appear in a suit for damage by collision, occasioned
to a vessel by a ship of the crown; but the lords having subsequently directed an appearance to be entered, the court proceeded with the case, and awarded damages. As no warrant
issues in these cases for the arrest of the vessels of the crown,
and no bail is given on the appearance, it is insisted that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

are brought simply to ascertain the extent. of the damages, and
that the decrees are little more than awards, so far as the government is concerned. This may be the only results of the suits,
but they are instituted and conducted on the hypothesis that
claims against the offending vessels are created by the collision.
The Clara, 1 Swabey, 3, and The Swallow, 1 Swabey, 30. The
vessels are not arrested and taken into custody by the marshal,
for the reasons of public policy already stated, and for the further
reason that it is to be presumed that the government will at
once satisfy a decree rendered by its own tribunals in a case in
which it has voluntarily appeared."
As the prize vessel had been condemned and sold at the instance of the United States, and the proceeds were in the registry of the court for distribution, the court gave the relief
sought against the proceeds of the sale, because the facts stated
established; not only the liability of the offending ship, but also
furnished the basis of jurisdiction.
The same principle was applied in the later case of The Davi9,
(1869) 10 Wall. 15, where it was held that personal property
of the United States on board of a vessel for transportation
from one point to another was liable to a lien for salvage service
rendered in saving the property from a peril of the sea, and
that such lien might be enforced by a proceeding in,rem,when
the process of the court might be used without disturbing the
possession of the government.
The statement of the maritime law of England on the subject now being considered made in The Siren, supra, makes it
clear that, in harmony with the maritime law of this country,
the fact that a wrong has been committed by a public vessel of
the crown affords no ground for contending that no liability
arises, because of the public nature of the vessel, although, it
may be, in consequence of a want of jurisdiction over the sovereign, redress cannot be given. This is well illustrated by the
cases to which we shall now refer.
17e Atlwl, (1842) 1 Wm.Rob. 314, was the case of a British
troopship which had run down a brig in the English Channel
The Lords of the Admiralty having refused a petition for compensation, the owner of the brig applied to the High Court of

WORKMAN r. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

569

Opinion of the Court.

Admiralty to decree a monition to issue against those officials.
In declining to issue the monition, for want of power, Dr. Lushington said (p. 382):
"Under the circumstances of this case then, both upon principle and the authority of decided cases, I must decline to issue
the monition as prayed. At the same time, sitting here as a
judge, in a court of justice, I am bound to express the opinion
that I cannot apprehend the high personages who represent Her
Majesty in her office of Admiralty, will avoid doing justice, or
that, upon a due consideration, they will take upon themselves
to say, that they will be themselves the exclusive judges upon
the merits of the present case. "Whether they shall appear or
not, is not a matter for this court to determine. I decline to
grant the monition."
The Lords of the Admiralty subsequently directed that an
appearance should be made on behalf of TheAthol, and as by
this act the court had jurisdiction to determine the controversy,
it did so, held The Athol to have been in fault, and, despite the
public nature of the vessel, "the damages and costs were pronounced for."
Tie Parlement Bege, (1879) 4 P. D. 129, was an action
instituted on behalf of the owners of a steam tug against the
steamship Parlement Beige and her freight to recover damages
sustained by the tug in a collision with the steamship. The
latter vessel was, at the time of the collision and when the action was instituted, a public vessel of the Government of the
sovereign state of Belgium, navigated and employed by and in
the possession of such government, and officered by officers of
the royal Belgium navy, holding commissions from His Majesty,
the King of Belgium, and in the pay and service of his government. Besides carrying the mails, between Dover and Ostend,
the Parlement Belge carried- passengers and merchandise, and
was employed in earning passage-money and freight. Sir Robert Phillimore declared (p. 144) that the case was one of first
impression, and to be decided upon general principles and the
analogies of law rather than upon any direct precedent, and it
was held that the Parlement Belge did not come within the
category of a ship of war or a pleasure vessel belonging to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

crown of Belgium, and was not exempt from the process of
the court. On appeal, however, (5 P. D. 197,) it was held that
the admiralty court was concluded by the declaration of the
sovereign authority that the vessel was a public vessel of the
state, and, further, that the mere fact of the ship having been
used subordinately for trading purposes did not take away the
immunity attaching to the public vessel of an independent sovereignty, and that the vessel could not be proceeded against.
It results that, in the maritime law, the public nature of the
service upon which a vessel is engaged at the time of the commission of a maritime tort affords no immunity from liability
in a court of admiralty, where the court has jurisdiction. This
being so, it follows that as the municipal corporation of the city
of New York, unlike a sovereign, was subject to the jurisdiction
of the court, the claimed exemption from liability asserted in
the case at -bar, because of the public nature of the service upon
which the fire-boat was engaged-even if such claimn for the
purposes of the case be conceded-was without foundation in
the maritime law, and therefore afforded no reason for denying
redress in a court of admiralty for the wrong which the courts
below both found to have been committed.
And these considerations would dispose of the case, were it
not for two subordinate contentions which we deem it essential
to notice before reaching a conclusion. The first, as expressed
in the brief of counsel, is that the injury to the Linda Park
should have been held to have been the result of inevitable accident, because "whatever was done in regard to the navigation
of the New Yorker was done in the excitement of the moment,
and in view of the extent of not only the possible but probable
spread of the fire, under pressure of necessity." Pausing for a
moment to analyze this contention it results that it involves the
self-destructive assumptions that the maritime law, in order to
render the person and property of the individual safe, in case
of an emergency arising from the happening of fire, causes both
the person and property of the individual to be unsafe, since
without necessity and through negligence injury can be inflicted or destruction be brought about, without power, in the
admiralty courts, to redress the wrong, although the wrongdoer

WORKMAN v. NEW -YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

671

Opinion of the Court.

be amenable to their jurisdiction. But, while it is true that the
emergency of fire was an element to be considered in determining whether or not those in charge of the fire-boat were
negligent on the occasion in question, since negligence is relative, that is, depends upon whether there was an absence of the care which it was the duty to exercise under the particular cir-'
cumstances. But it does not follow that the emergency of flie
exempted from the exercise of such due care as the occasion
required towards property which was in the path of the fireboat as it approached the slip for the purpose of getting into a
position where it might assist in extinguishing the fire in ques..
tion.
This principle has been heretofore applied by this court.
Thus, in 2/We Clagita, (18T5) 23 Wall. 1, a tugboat, whose busiiiess it was to give relief to vessels on fire, in towing a vessel
on fire from out of a dock, used a manila hawser.. While so'
engaged the hawser was burnt, and the burning vessel getting
loose from the tug, drifted, and set fire to another vessel. It
was urged upon the court "that it is the interest of shipping
that an enterprising company, like the one which owned this tug
-a company which at great expense fits up a tug with powerful steam pumps, and keeps the vessel with her fires banked,
night and day, to move on a moment's notice everywhere about
a harbor for useful service-should be encouraged;" and the
emergency of the occasion it was claimed ought to exempt
from liability. In holding that the tug was in fault this court
said (p. 15):
"Eveh ordinary experience and prudence would have suggested that the part of the hawser made fast to the ferryboat
should be chain, and that it would be unsafe to use a hawser
made-of manila. Where the danger is great the greater should
be the precaution, as prudent men in great emergencies employ
their best exertions to ward off the danger. Whether they had
a chain hawser on board or not does not appear, but sufficient
does appear to satisfy the court that one of sufficient length to
have prevented the disaster might easily have been procured,
even. if they were not supplied with such an appliance."
. And in. accord with this .doctrine is the local- law of New

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

York. Thus, in Farleyv. _Mayor' (1897) 152 N. Y. 222, in
speaking of the obligation to exercise due care devolving upon
the driver of a fire engine, while responding to an alarm of fire,
the court said (p. 227):
"The conduct of the plaintiff was for the consideration of
the jury.

.

.

.

He was bound in driving to exercise the

care which a prudent person would ordinarily exercise under
similar circumstances. It was for the jury to say whether he
was alert on this occasion, watchful to avoid obstructions which
might be in his path, and whether there was any omission on
his part of reasonable circumspection and diligence which contributed to the accident."
And indeed, although there are a number of cases holding
that a municipal corporation is not liable for a positive injury
to the person or property of an individual inflicted by its fire
department, they do not rest upon the doctrine of emergency,
which we are now considering. On the contrary, all these cases
but e,-qound the theory of sovereign attribute,which we have
seen does not control the maritime law, and cannot justify an
admiralty court in refusing to redress a wrong where it has
ji.risdiction to do so.
The remaining suggestion is that as a proceeding in 'ram
could not have been maintained against the fire-boat because
it was the property of the city of New York, and therefore an
instrumentality employed in the performance of its municipal
functions, no action inperonam was available to the owner of
the injured vessel. As we at the outset said, there is contrariety of opinion in the lower admiralty courts of the United
States as to whether the rule of the courts of common law
which exempts from seizure the property of a municipality devoted to its municipal uses obtains in a court of admiralty of
the United States. This conflict, as we have also said, we deem
it unnecessary: to determine in this case, because, even if it be
conceded that the fire-boat could not have been seized by process from a court of admiralty, the proposition .that, therefore,
the owner could not be called upon, in an action inpersonam,
to respond*for the damages inflicted by the boat, is without
foundation. Of course, as has been repeatedly declared by ihis

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY-, MAYOR &c.

573

Opinion of the Cornt.

court, by the general admiralty law of this country, subject to
the exemption from process possessed by the national government, a ship, by whomsoever owned or navigated, is liable for
an actionable injury resulting from the negligence of the master and crew of such vessel. The John G. Stevenw, (1898) 170
U. S. 113, 120, and cases cited, 122. A liability of the owners
inperonam, however, is not dependent upon ability to maintain a proceeding in rem because of the maritime tort. A
maritime lien may not exist in a cause of collision, for instance,
when the thing occasioning the tort was not the subject of a
maritime lien, The Bock Jeland Bridge, (1867) 6 Wall. 213;
or such a lien, if it exist, may not be enforceable, and so may
be said to render the offending thing not the subject of a maritime lien, because of the ownership and -possession of such thing
being in the government of the nation. The Siren, (1869) 7
Wall. 152. Or the remedy in rem may not be available owing
to the offending thing being actually in another country, or
because of its loss intermediate the collision and the institution
of legal proceedings.
A recovery can be had in yeronam,however, for a maritime
tort when the relation existing between the owner and the master and crew of the vessel, at the time of the negligent collision,
was that of master and servant. Thorpe v. H~ammond, (1871)
12 Wall. 408; The Plymouth, (1866) 3 Wall. 35.
The prerequisite in admiralty to the right to resort to a libel
iniereonam is the existence of a cause of action, maritime in
its nature. That a collision upon navigable waters of the
United States, between vessels, by the fault of one of such vessels, creates a maritime tort aid a cause of action within the
jurisdiction of a court of admiralty, is of course unquestioned.
And, as .said by this court in In re Louieville Underwriter,
(1890) 134 U. S. 488, 490 :
"By the ancient and settled practice of. courts of admiraltyj
a libel in peronain may be maintained for any cause within
their jurisdiction, wherever a monition can be served upon the
libellee, or an attachment made of any personal property or
credits of his."
-Becausewe conclude that the rule of the local law in the

OCTOBER TER]M, 1900.
JusTicEs GRAY, Bn w.n, SHIRAS and PE0xnAx, dissenting.

State of New York-conceding it to be as held by the Circuit
Court of Appeals-does not control the maritime law, and,
therefore, affords no ground for sustaining the non-liability of
the city of New York in the case at bar, we must not be understood as conceding the correctness of the doctrine by which a
municipal corporation, as to the discharge of its administrative
duties, is treated as having two distinct capacities, the one private
or corporate, and the other governmental.or sovereign, inwhich
latter it may inflict a direct and positive wrong upon the person
or property of a citizen without power in the courts to afford
redress for such wrong. That question, from the aspect of both
the common and municipal law, was considered by this court
in Weightmanv. Corporation of Washington, (1861) 1 Black,
39 ; Barnes.v. .DiStrict of Columbia,(1875) 91 U. S. .540; and in
-Districtof Columbia v. Iroodbury, (1890) 136 U. S. 480. And
although this opinion is confined to the controlling effect of the
admiralty law, we do not intend to intimate the belief that the.
common law which benignly above all considers the rights of
the individual, yet gives its sanction to a .principle which denies
the duty of courts to protect the rights of the individual in a
case where they have jurisdiction to do so. For these reasons
we are sedulous to say that we must not be understood as in
anywise doubting the correctness of the doctrines expounded
by this court in the cases just cited. or as even impliedly approvng contentions which may conflict with the principles an'hounded in those cases.
Our.conclusion is that the District Court rightly decided that
ihe mayor, aldermen and commonalty of the city of New York
Were liable for the damages sustained by thd owner-of the
Linda-Park.
The decree'of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the- gecond
Circuit is reversed,and the decree -Of-& _District Court is
ajlmed.
Mm.'
MR.

JusTioE

GRAY,

for himself and MR. JUSTICE BREwEw
MR. JusTOi P nomu, dissenting.

,

JusvirE S=iAS and

"ee are, unable to ooncut inthis decis.ion; and the case ap

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.
JUSTCES Ga&Y, BREWER, SEIBAS and PEcEHA,

575

dissenting.

pears to us of such importance as to warrant, if not to require,
a statement of the grounds of our dissent.
The question presented by the record is whether the owner
of a vessel lying at a dock in the port of New York can maintain a libel in admiralty in personar against the city of New
York for an injury to his vessel from being run into through
the negligence of those in charge of a fire-boat, owned by the
city and in the custody and management of its fire department,
while hastening to assist in putting out a fire raging in a building at the head of the dock.
We had supposed it to be well settled, on authority and on
principle, that no private suit could be maintained against a
municipal c 6rporation for an injury to person or property caused.
by negligence of members of its fire department while engaged
in the performance of their official duties.
How far a municipal corporation may be held liable to a
private action for the neglect of itself, or of its officers, in the
performance of duties imposed upon it or upon them by law, is
a subject upon which, in some of its aspects, there has been
much difference of opinion in the courts of this country.
The difference has been most marked in actions against a city
for injuries from a defect in a highway which the city is bound
by its charter to repair. Such actions, when not expressly given
by statute, have been held not to. be maintainable by the courts
of the New England States, and by those of New Jersey, Michigan, Wisconsin, South Carolina, Arkansas and California; but
have been held to be maintainable by the courts of every other
State in which the question has arisen. The decisions upon that
point, in either class of States, aie fullycollected in 1 Shearman
& Redfield on Negligence (5th ed.),  258, 289.
What kinds of cases may fall within the same rule has been.
the subject of much doubt and discussion. But it has never, so
far as we'are aware, been held by the highest court of any
State, that an action at law may be maintained against a municipal corporation for. any injury to person or property caused
by the negligence of the members of its fire department while
engaged in the line of their duty.
It is not only in States whose courts hold that, unless author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

-

JusTIcEs GnAy, BnEWER, SHIRAS and PECKHAm, dissenting.

ized by express statute, no action can be maintained against a
city for the neglect of itself or its officers to keep a highway in
repair-as throughout New England, and in New Jersey, Wisconsin and California-that no acticn has been held to be maintainable against a city for negligence of members of its fire
department while discharging 'their duty as such. Hafford v.
New Bedford, (1860) 16 Gray, 297; -Fisherv. Boston,, (1870)
104 Mass. 87; Pettingellv. Chelsea, (1894) 161 Mass. 368; Burill v. Augusta, (1886) 78 Maine, 118; Edgerly v. Concord,
(1879) 59 iNew Hampshire, 78, and (1882) 62 New Hampshire,
8; Walsh v. Rutland, (1883) 56 Vermont, 228; Dodge v. G -anger, (1892) 17 Rhode Island, 664:; Jewett v. New Haven, (1870) 3S
Connecticut, 368; Wild v. Paterson,(1885) 18 Vroom, (47 N. J.
Law) 496; Hayes v. Oshkosh, (1873) 33 Wisconsin, 314; Howard v. San'Franisco,(1875) 51 California, 52.
But the same view has prevailed in those Statep where a different view is taken of the question of the liability of cities for defects in highways and bridges. In the States of New York,
Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, Mississippi,
Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and Washington, (as appears in
Shearman and Redfield on Negligence, ubi supra,) cities are
held liable to private actions for damages from defects in highways. Yet in each of those States it has been adjudged that
cities are not liable to actions for negligence of members of
their fire department engaged in the line of their duty.
In the case at bar, the decree of the District Court in favor
of the libellant against the city of New York proceeded upon the
ground that by the local law of New York an action could be
maintained against the city by the owner of property injured
by the.negligence of members of its fire department. The Circuit Court of Appeals came to the opposite conclusion; and
upon careful examination of the New York decisions we are
satisfied that the Circuit Court of Appeals was right upon that
question.
In the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, the law
has long been settled that a municipal corporation having a
charter from the State, which requires it to construct and maintain highways and bridges, is liable to a person suffering injury

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

577

JUSTICES GRBY, BREWER, SHIERAS and PECKHAm, dissenting.

in person or property by a defect in the construction or repair
of either by the negligence of the commissioner of highways.
ffut on v. -ew York, (1853) 9 N. Y. 163; Con?,ad v. Ithaca,
(1857) 16 N. Y. 158, 161 ; 1egua v. Rochester, (1871) 45 N. Y.
129; Hume v. .New York, (1878) 74 N. Y. 26-1; Ehrgott v.
lew York, (1884) 96 N. Y. 264; Hughes v. -3Lon-'oe, (1895) 147"
N. Y. 49, 57; .Miano v. New York, (1899) 160 N. Y. 123.
But that court has constantly held otherwise in regard to
negligence of members of the fire department, the police department, or even of the department of public charities, of public
health, or of public instruction.
In faxmilia v. -ew York, (1875) 62 N. Y. 160, which has
always been considered a leading case, Judge Folger, delivering
the unanimous judgment of the court, said: "There are two
kinds of duties which are imposed upon a municipal corporation:
One is of that kind which arises from the grant of a special
power, in the exercise of which the municipality is as a legal
individual; the other is of that kind which arises, or is implied,
from the use of political rights under the general law, in the
exercise of which it is as a sovereign. The former power is
private, and is used for private purposes; the latter is public,
and is used for public purposes. The former is not held by the
municipality as one of the political divisions of the State; the
latter is. In the exercise of the former power, and under the
duty to the public which the acceptance and use of the power
involves, a municipality is like a private corporation, and is liable for a failure to use its power well, or for an injury caused
by using it badly. But where the power is intrusted to it as
one of the political divisions of the State, and is conferred not
for the immediate benefit of the municipality, but as a means
to the exercise of the sovereign power for the benefit of all
citizens, the corporation is not liable for non-user nor for misuser by the public agents." 62 N. Y. 164, 165. The previous
decisions holding municipal corporations liable to private actions
for defects in highways or bridges were placed upon the ground
that "the duty of keeping in repair streets, bridges and other
common ways of passage, and sewers, and a liability for a negL
lect to perform that duty, rest upon an express or implied
VOL. cLXXIX-37

OCTOBER TERM1, 1900.
JusTicEs GRAY, Bnnw' R, SmUiAs and PECKH4M, dissenting.

acceptance of the power, and an agreement so to do. It is a
duty with which the city is charged for its own corporate benefit, to be performed by its own agents, as its own corporate
act." 62 N. Y. 170. But it was adjudged that the city was
not liable for a personal injury caused by the negligence of the
driver of an ambulance employed by the commissioners of pubHe charities and correction, because the powers and duties of
those commissioners were Puch as were to,be exercised and performed, in every local political division of the State, not for the
peculiar benefit of that division, but for the whole public, in
the discharge of its duty to care for paupers, lunatics and prisoners.

62 N. Y. 168.

In Ham v. New York, (187)TO N. Y. 459, the decision in
-Yawm'lian', case was approved, and was followed in holding
that the city was not liable to one whose property was injured
in consequence of the negligent construction of a schoolhouse
by the department of public instruction of the city.
More directly in point is Smith v. Rochester, (1879) 76 N. Y.
606, in which it was held that no action against the city could
be maintained by a person .injured by the negligent driving of
a hose cart along the street, pursuant to a vote of the 'ity coiincil directing the fire department to assemble in front of the city
hall at midnight, as part of a celebration of the centennial anniversary-of the National Independence. The judgment was put,
not only upon the ground that the city had no authority to
employ the horses and wagons of the fire department for a
midnight parade of the fire department to celebrate the centennial anniversary of the Nation, but upon the additional and
distinct ground that, assuming that the city had such authority
under -the statutes of New York, "the difficulty in maintaining
the plaintiff's action is the well settled rule, that a municipal
corporation is not liable for the negligence of firemen while
engaged in the line of their duty." 76 N. Y. 513.
In Terhune v. -ew York, (1882) 88 N. Y. 247, it was held
that an officer of the fire department could not maintain an
action against the city for his wrongful dismissal from bffice
by the fire commissioners, because, as was said.by Judge Earl,.
citing the cases of gfaximlian, of lTa m and of Smith, above

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.
JusTICEs GRAY, BREWEB, SHIRAS

5T9

and PECKHAM, dissenting.

referred to, "the fire commissioners were public officers, and
not agents of the city." 88 N. Y. 251. See also Springfield
Ifn8. CO, v. JXee8eville, (1895),148 N. Y. 46.
Quite in line with these decisions is Farley v. fVew York,
(1897) 152 N. Y. 222, 227, which was an action by the driver
of a hose carriage against the city to recover damages for injuries caused by'driving against an obstruction in the highway.
The New York statute of 1882, c. 410, (consolidating the laws
affecting public interests in the city of New York,) provides'in
 444 that "the officers and men of the fire department, with
their apparatus of all kinds, when on duty, shall have the right
of way at any fire, and in any highway, street or avenue, over
any and all vehicles of any kind, except those carrying United
States mails;" and.in  1932 that no person shall drive or ride
any horse through any street in the city faster than five miles
an hour. The Court of Appeals, speaking by Chief Justice
Andrews, said: "The safety of property and the protection of
life may and often do depend upon celerity of movement, and.
require that the greatest practicable speed should be permitted
to the vehicles of the fire department in going to fires.. Section 1932 was intended to regulate the speed of horses travel-.
ling on the-streets and using them for the ordinary purposes of
travel, and from the nature of the exigency cannot apply to
the speed of vehicles of the fire departm6nt on their way to
fires." The further decision that negligence on: the part of the
driver would defeat his action against the city has no tendency
to show that such negligence could render the city liable to third
persons.
In the very recent case of 3fswano v. New York, 160 N. Y.
123, in which it was held that keeping the streets clean stood
upon the same ground as keeping them in repair, and that the
city was therefore liable for a personal injury caused by the
negligence of the driver of an ash cart of the street-cleaning
department, the court again affirmed the established distinction
between such cases and those in which the corporation exercised.
a public and governmental power for the benefit of the whole
public and as the delegate and representative of the State; and
quoted with approval the statement of Judge Wallace in a simi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIcES GRAY,

BRYWEB, SHIRAS andPvEcKu7,

dissenting.

lar case in the Circuit Court of the United States, where, speaking of the commissioner of the street-cleaning, he said, "His
duties, unlike those of the officers of the departments of health,
charities, fire and police, although performed incidentallyin the
interest of the public health, are more immediately performed
in the interest of the corporation itself which is charged with
the obligation of maintaining its streets in fit and suitable condition for the use of those who resort tQ.them." Baivwy Co.
v. New York,(1889) 40 Fed. Rep. 50. See also Hughes v. Auburn, (1899) 161 N. Y. 96, 103, 104.; and the decisions of the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York in Haight v. New York, (1885) 24 Fed. Rep. 93,
and in Edgerton v. NTew York, (1886) 27 Fed. Rep. 230.
The highest courts of the States of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, Mississippi, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and Washington, also, as already mentioned, have adjudged that no private action can be maintained to recover
damages against a city for an injury caused by negligence of
members of its fire department while engaged in their official
duties. The decisions are so uniform, and treat the point as so
well settled, that it is enough to cite them, without stating
-them in detail. They are as'follows: JXnight v. Philadelphia,
(1884) 15 Penn. Weekly Notes, 307; Fire Insurance Patrol
v. Boyd, (1888) 120 Penn. St. 624, 646 ; Kies v. Erie,(1890) 135
Penn. St. 144, 149 ; Frederickv. Columbus, (1898) 58 Ohio St.
538, 546; Wilcox v. Chicago, (1883) 107 Illinois, 334, 338-340;
Greenwood v. Louisville, (1877) 13 Bush, 226; Davis v. Lebanon,
(Kentucky, 1900) 57 Southwestern Reporter, 471; Heller v. Sedalia, (1873) 53 Missouri, 159 ; cEKenna v. St. Louis, (1878) 6 Missouri App. 320; Alexander v. 'Vicksburg,(1891) 68 Mississippi,
564; Saundeds v. Fort -Madison,(Iowa, 1900) 82 Northwestern
Reporter, 428; Grube v. St. Paul,(1886) 34 Minnesota, 402;
Gillespie v. Lincoln, (1892) 35 Nebraska, 34, 46; Lawson v.
Seattle, (1893) 6 Wash. St. 184.
The law on this point, as undersfood and administered throughout the country by the highest courts of all the States in which
the question has aiisen, is unqualifiedly recognized by the principal text-writers. Mr. Dillon, fqr instance, after observing that

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR..&c.

581

JuSTIcEs GRAY, BREWER, SHRAS and PEoKHAM, dissenting.

"police officers appointed by a city are not its agents or serv-.
ants, so as to render it responsible for their unlawful or negligent acts in the discharge of their duties," goes on to say: "So,
although a municipal corporation has power to extinguish fires,
to establish a fire department, to appoint and remove itg officers,
and to make regulations in respect to their government and the
management of fires, it is not liable for the negligence of firemen appointed and paid by it, who, when engaged in their line
of duty upon an alarm of fire, ran over the plaintiff, in drawing
a hose-reel belonging to the city, on their way to the fire; nor
for injuries to the plaintiff$ caused by the bursting of the hose
of one of the engines of the corporation, through the negligence
of a member of the fire department; nor for negligence whereby
sparks from the fire engine of the corporation caused the plaintiff's property to be burned. The exemption from liability, in
these and like cases, is upon the ground that the service is performed by the corporation in obedience to an act of 'the legislature; is one in which the corporation, as such, has no particular.
interest and from which it derives no special benefit in its corporate capacity; that the members of the fire department, although appointed by the city corporation, are not the agents
and servants of the city for whose conduct it is liable; but they.
act rather as officers of the city, charged with a public service,
for whose negligence in the discharge of official duty no action
lies against the city without being expressly given; and the
maxim of reqpondeat 8uperior has therefore no application."
2 Dillon on Municipal Corporations (4th ed.),  975, 976. See
also 1 Shearman and Redfield on Negligence,  265; Tiedeman
on Municipal Corporations,  333a ; 1 Beach on Public Corporations,  744; 13 Amer. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 78.
The libellant relied on Xersey Docks v. Gibbs,L. R. 1 H. L. 93,
in which the members of the town council of Liverpool and
their successors, who had been formed by acts of -Parliament
into a corporation by the style of the Trustees of the Liverpool
Docks, were held liable to an action for an injury to a vessel
from a bank of mud which had been negligently suffered to remain in the docks. That decision proceeded -upon the ground
that the trustees of the docks were one of those corporations

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES GRAY, BRInwEn, SHIRAS and PECKHAM, dissenting.

formed for trading and other profitable purposes, and in their
very nature substitutionson a large scale for individual enterprise; supplying to those using the docks the same accommodation and the same services that would have been supplied by
ordinary dock proprietors to their customers; and being paid
for such accommodation and 'ervices sums of money, constituting a' fund which, although not belonging to them for their
own use, was devoted to the maintenance of the works, and
presumably to pay claims against the corporation for injuries
caused by their negligence. See L. R. 1 H. L. 105-107, 122.
it was of such bodies, that Lord Cranworth, after observing
that the fact that the appellants, in whom the docks were
vested, did not collect tolls for their own profit, but merely as
trustees for the benefit of the public, made no difference in
principle in respect to their liability, went on to say: "It would
be a strange distinction to persons .coming with their ships to
different ports of this country, that in some ports, if they sustain damage by the negligence of those -who have the management of the docks, they will be entitled to compensation, and
in others they will not; such a distinction arising, not from
any visible difference in the docks themselves, but from some
municipal difference iA the constitution of the bodies by whom
the docks are managed."
But the city of New York, in establishing and carrying on
a fire department, is not a substitution for individual enterprise; nor does it perform any such services as ordinary individuals might perform to their customers; nor does it receive
any compensation for the use of the fire-boat, or from those
benefited by the acts of the fire department.
The decisions of this court contain nothing, to say the least,
inconsistent with the conclusion that'no action at law could be
maintained in such a case as this.
This court, taking the same view of the liability of municipal
corporations to actions at law for injuries caused by ddfects iii
highways or bridges, which has prevailed in New York and in
most of tho States, has held that an action of that kind may be
maintained in the courts of the District of Columbia; Meightman v. frashiington, (1861) 1 Black, 39; Barnes v. Ditr'ict of

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITYi MAYOR &c.

583

JUSTICES GRAY, BREWiB, SHrRs and PzECHAm, dissenting.

C'olumbia, (1875) 91 U. S. 540; District of Columbia v. W'ood
bury, (1890) 136 U. S. 450; Bauman v. Ro88, (1897) 167 U. S. 548,
597; or in the courts of a Territory; .HebraskaCity v. Campbell, (1862) 2 Black, 590; or in the Circuit Court of the.United
States held in a State whose courts maintain such an action, as
in New York, -ew York v. BSkepd, (1866) 4 Wall. 189; in
Illinois, Chicago v. Robbine, (1862) 2 Black, 418, and (1866)
4 Wall. 657, and Evanston v. Gunn, (187) 99 U. S. 660.; in
Virginia, .Manchester v. Er'icsson, (1881) 105 U. S. 347; or in
Ohio, Cleveland v. Zing, (1889) 132 U. S. 295; but that in a
State where, as in Michigan, its highest court holds that a
municipal corporation is not liable to such an action, no such
action will lie in the Circuit Court of the United States, because, as was said by Mr. Justice Brewer in delivering judgment, the question "is not one of general commercial law; it
is purely local in its significance and extent." Detroit v. Osborne, (1890) 135 U. S. 492, 498.
In the leading case of Weightman v. Washington, which was
an action against the city of Washington for injuries caused by
a defect in a bridge, the court said: "In view of the several
provisions of the charter, not a doubt is entertained that the
burden of repairing or rebuilding the bridge was imposed upon
the defendants in consideration of the privileges and imnunities conferred by the charter." 1 Black, 51. And the court
took occasion, by way of precaution, to observe that powers
granted by the legislature to a municipal corporation to pass
ordinances prescribing and regulating the duties of policemen
and firemen "are generally regarded as discretionary, because,
in their nature, they are legislative; and although it is the duty
of such corporations to carry out the powers so granted and
make them beneficial, still it has never been held that an action
on the case would lie against the corporation, at the suit of an
individual, for the failure on their part to perform such a duty."
1 Black, 49.
In Barnes v. .Distrktof Columbia, the action was for a defect in a street in the District of Columbia, constituted a municipal corporation by the act of Congress of February 21, 1871,
c. 62, which vested in a board of public works appointed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES GRAY, BREwER, SIrBAS and PECKHAM, dissenting.

President, the entire control and regulation of the streets, avenues and alleys of the city. 16 Stat. 419, 427. The decision
proceeded upon the ground that the care of the streets was
"peculiarly a municipal duty," and that the board of works,
being charged by Congress with the exclusive control of the
streets, was, in that respect, like an ordinary agent of the city,
and its proceedings were proceedings of the city. 91 U. S. 547,
555.

But there is no ground for assuming that the duty of putting
out fires was imposed upon the city of New York "in consideration of the immunities and privileges conferred by the charter,"
or was "peculiarly a municipal duty."
In Bowditch v. Boston, (1879) 101 U. S. 16, it was adjudged
that no action would lie, either at common law or by statute,
against the city of Boston to recover damages for the destruction of a building, blown up under a general order of the chief
engineer of the city to prevent the spreading of a conflagration;
that the action, not being maintainable at common law, could
only be supported by an express statute; and that the statutes
of Massachusetts, as construed by the highest court of the State,
did not authorize such an action against the city, except for the
destruction of a building by specific order of three firewards
or engineers acting jointly. In support of the position that
the action would not lie at common law, this court relied on
the ancient rule, as stated by Coke, that "for the commonwealth a man shall suffer damage; as, for saving of a city or
town, a house shall be plucked down if the next be on fire;
and a thing for the commonwealth every man may do without
being liable to an action." Case of the Zing's Prerogativein Saltpetre, 12 Rep. 12, 13. The expression "the commonwealth"
was evidently used by Coke as equivalent to "the common weal"
or "the public welfare;" for he added, after the proposition
above quoted, "as it is said in 3 H. 8, fol. 15," evidently intending to refer to the Year Book of 13 Hen. VIII, 15, 16, in which
the rule is introduced by the words "the common wealth shall
be preferred before private wealth;" and in a statement of
the rule in a case in 29 Hen. VIII the corresponding expression
is "the common weal." Jfaleverer v. Spinke, Dyer, 35a, 36b.

WORKMAN v.NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

585

JUSTICES GRAY, BREWER, SHIRAS and PECKHAM, dissenting.

The precise question whether a municipal corporation is liable to an action at law for injuries caused by negligence of
members of its fire department has never been decided or considered by this court.
But the principles affirmed and illustrated in the authorities
already cited forbid the maintenance of a private action against
a municipal corporation for injuries caused by the negligence
of members of a fire department, while engaged in the performance of their official duties.
The putting out of fires which are in danger of spreading is
for the benefit of the whole public, and for the protection of the
property of all. The danger is so great and imminent that it
is especially one of those cases in which the public safety must
be preferred to private interests. Sauspovuli suprema lex. It
is the public good, the general welfare, that justifies the destruction of neighboring buildings to prevent the spreading of a fire
which as yet rages in one building only. The duty of protecting, so far as may be, all property within the State against
destruction by fire, is a public and governmental duty, which
rests upon the government of the State; and it does not cease
to be a duty of that character because the State has delegated
it to, or permitted it to be performed by, a municipal corporation. When entrusted by the legislature to a municipal corporation, a political division of the State, it is not for the peculiar benefit of that corporation or division, but for its benefit
in common with the whole public. A fire department is established in a municipality, not merely for the protection of buildings and property within the municipality itself, but equally
for the protection of*buildings and property beyond its limits,
to which a fire originating within those limits may be in danger
of spreading. Moreover, the necessity and appropriateness of
the course and measures to be taken to stay a conflagration
must be promptly determined, in the first instance, by those
charged with the performance of the duty at the time of the
exigency; and often cannot be as accurately judged of long
after the fact. The members of the fire department of a city,
therefore, whether appointed by the municipal corporation or
otherwise, are not mere agents or servants of the corporation,

OCTOBER TERM9, 1900.
JUSTIOEs GRAY, BBEWER, SHIRAS and PECBKAM, dissenting.

but are public officers charged with a public service; and for
their acts or their negligence iithe performance of this service
no action lies against the corporation, unless expressly given
by statute.
It appears to us to be equally clear that no suit upon a like
cause of action can be maintained in a court of admiralty; or,
as expressed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case, "That
the suit is brought in a court of admiralty instead of a common
law court, and that the negligence consisted in the improper
navigation of the vessel, cannot affect the conclusion." 35 U. S.
App. 204.
It was argued that all the admiralty courts of the United
States should be governed by one rule of maritime law, without
regard to local decisions. Such is doubtless the case in the
courts of admiralty, as it is in the other courts of the United
States, upon questions of general commercial law. LiverpooZ
Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., (1889) 129 U. S. 397, 443. Courts
of' admiralty are also governed by their own rules, and not
by the common law or by local statute, in matters affecting
their own jurisdiction and procedure, as, for instance, in regard to the rules of navigation in navigable waters; .The _New
'York, (1855) 18 How.' 223.; to the limitation of the liability of
shipowners; Bute' v. Boston Steamshiyp Co., (1889) 130 U, S.
527; to the duration, the enforcement and the marshalling of
maritime liens; The Chusan, (1842) 2 Story, 455, 462; Die
Lottawanna,(1874) 21 Wall. 558; Te J. E. Runzbell, (1893) 148
U. S.1, 17; and of the effect of contributory negligence of a
suitor upon his right to recover and upon the assessment of
damages. Atlee v. Packet Co., (1874) 21 Wall. 389, 395; The
-Maw 2forris, (1890) 137 U. S.1. But the decision of this case
does not turn upon any such questioT.
By the general admiralty law of this country, often declared
by this court, a ship, by whomsoever owned -or navigated, is
liable for an actionable injury resulting from the negligence of
her master or crew to another vessel. The 7falek Adhel, (1844)
2 How. 210, 233, 234; The China, (1868) 7 Wall. 53, 68; 1Ralli
v. Troop, (1895) 157 U. S.386,403; T7 John G. Stevens, (1898)
170 U. S.113, 120. But that does not warrant the inference

WORKMAN r. NEW YORK CITY. MAYOR &c.

587

JusTIcEs GRAY, BREwEn, SHIBAS and PECKHAM, dissenting.

that a libel inperonam can be maintained against the owner
for a tort which would neither sustain a libel in rem against the
ship, nor an action at law against her owner.
There is no case, we believe, in which a libel in admiralty has
been maintained by this court, as for a tort, upon a cause of action on which, by the law prevailing throughout the country,
no action at law could be maintained. On the contrary, it has
repeatedly held that, as no action lies at common law for the
death of a human being, no suit for a death caused by the negligence of those in charge of a vessel on navigable waters, either
within a State or on the high seas, can be maintained in admiralty in the courts of the United States, in the absence of an
act of Oongress, or a statute of the State, giving a right of action
therefor; and in delivering judgment in the leading case Chief
Justice Waite said: "We know of no country that has adopted
a different rule on this subject for the sea from that which it
maintains on the land, and the maritime law, as accepted and
received by maritime nations generally, leaves the matter untouched." "The rights of persons in this particular under the
maritime law of this country are not different from those under
the common law, and as it is the duty of courts to declare the
law, not to make it, we cannot change the rule." The Harrisburg, (1886) 119 U. S. 199, 213; The Alaska, (1889) 130 U. S.
201; The Corsair,(1892) 145 U. S. 335; The Albert Dumois,
(1900) 177 U. S. 240, 259.
The cases of The Siren, (1868) 7 Wall. 152, and The .Davis,
(1869) 10 Wall. 15, related wholly to claims against the United
States, as compared with claims against private persons; no
question of the liability of municipal corporations was contested
by the parties, or alluded to by the court; and neither decision
has any tendency to support the libel in the present case. In
The Siren, a claim against a prize ship for damages from a collision with her while in the possession of the prize crew was sustained against the proceeds of the sale after condemnation, solely
because the United States were the actors in the suit to have
her condemned. So in The -Davis,salvage against goods belonging to the United States, and part of the cargo of a private
ship, was allowed because the possession of her master was not

OCTOBEhR TEM11, 1900.
JUSTICES GRAY, BREWER, SHIRAS and PEciORAM, dissenting.

the possession of the United States, and the United States could
only obtain the goods by claiming them in court. In short, in
each case, as Mr. Justice Miller afterwards pointed out, "the
Government came into court of its own volition to assert its
claim to the property, and could only do so on condition of rec6gnizing the superior rights of others." Case v. Terrell, (1870)
11 Wall. 199, 201. The opinion in each of the three cases distinctly affirmed the well settled doctrine of our law, that no suit
can be maintained in a judicial tribunal against a State, or against
.its property, without its consent. See also Cunningham v. .facon
& Brunswick 1?ailroad,(1883) 109 U. S. 446, 451; Stanley v.
Schwalby, (1892) 147 U. S. 508, 512, and (1896) 162 U. S. 255,
270; Belknap v. Sc/bud, (1896) 161 U. S. 10,16; B riggsv. Lightboats, (1865) 11 Allen, 156, 179-185. In England, it is equally
well settled that no libel in admiralty can be maintained against
the Crown, or against a foreign sovereign, or against any property of either, without his consent. See The Lord Hobart,(1815)
2 Dodson, 100; The Ath, (1842) 1 W. Rob. 374; The Parlement Belge, (1880) 5 Prob. D. 191, in which the Court of Appeal, speaking by Lord Justice Brett, (since Lord Esher, M. R.,)
reversed the exceptional decision of Sir Robert Phillimore in 4
Prob. D. 147. The dbcisions that no suit can be maintained
against the sovereign without his consent have certainly no
tendency to support a suit against a municipal cotporation. for
negligence in exercising powers delegated to it as a political division of the State, or to its officers, for the benefit of the whole
public, and not for the benefit of the corporation only.
The cases of The Blackwall, (1869) 10 Wall. 1, The CZarita
and The Clara,(1874) 23 Wall. 1, and The Connemara, (1883)
108 U. S. 352, related to the rights and liabilities of private persons engaged in saving, or attempting to save, vessels from imminent danger of destruction by fire; and decided nothing as
to the rights or liabilities of municipal corporations or of their
firemen. In The Clarita,it was a private corporation owning a
ferry boat was held liable for negligence while engaged in an
attempt to save a vessel from destruction by fire; and The
Blackwall, The Clara and The Connemaraconcerned the allowance of salvage to private salvors for services in putting out a

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR &c.

589

JusTicEs GRAY, BnEIWmW,SIBAs and Paik9M, dissenting.

fire on a vessel. In The Blackwall, the court avoided, as unnecessary to the decision, the expression of any opinion upon the
question whether members of a fire department could recover salvage for such services. 10 Wall. 12. It was afterwards decided
by Mr. Justice Bradley, sitting in the Circuit Court, that they
could not, because "the firemen were merely engaged- in the
line of their duty," and "the attempt to make-the performance
of this duty a ground of salvage, when it is a ship that takes
fire, is against wise policy." The NMary Fr'ost,(1876) 2 Woods,
306; The Suliote, (1880) 4 Woods, 19.
In The F. C. Latrobe,(1886) 28 Fed. Rep. 377, in the District
of Maryland, and in Gavagnin v. Philadelphia,(1894) 59 Fed.
Rep. 303, and 17 U. S. App. 642, and in Guthrie v. Philadelphia, (1896) 73 Fed. Rep. 688, in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in each of which a libel in admiralty was maintained
against a city for a collision with the libellant's vessel of a
steamboat maintained by the city for the purpose of clearing its
harbor of ice, the steamboat, at the time of the collision, was
not engaged in its usual public service, but in a special service
for a private benefit; and stress was laid upon that fact in each
of the opinions.
The decisions of the Circuit Court of the United States in
Massachusetts in Boston v. Crowley, (1889) 38 Fed. Rep. 202,
and of the District Court of the United States in Connecticut,
in Greenwood v. Wes port, (1894) 60 Fed. Rep. 560; S. C., 63
Connecticut, 587, were only that libels in admiralty inpersonam
could be maintained against a city or town for injuries caused
to vessels by not keeping open a draw in a bridge. It may also
be observed that in Crowley's case the decision was not in accord
with the earlier decision in Fr5iench v. Boston, (1880) 129 Mass.
592, and proceeded upon the assumption (38 Fed. Rep. 204) that
the question was one of general municipal or commercial law
upon which the courts of the United States were not bound to
follow the decisions of the highest courts of the State-an assumption inconsistent with the later judgment of this court in
.Detroitv. Osborne, 135 U. S.492, 498, above cited. In Greenwood's case the question was considered to be an open one in
the courts of Connecticut; and it has since been decided the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
JUSTICES GRAY, BREWER, SIHIRAS aud PECKHAM, dissenting.

other way by the 1: zhest court of the State. 60 Fed. Rep. 569,
575, 576; *Dalyv. New IIaven., (1897) 66 Connecticut, 644.
The only instance cited at the bar, in which a libel in admiralty has been maintained in such a case as the present, is that
of Thompson Navigation Co. v. Chicago, (1897) 79 Fed. Rep.
984, decided by the District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois since this suit was commenced, and avowedly a departure
from the case of The Fidelity, (1878) 9 Benedict, 333, and (1879)
16 Blatchford, 569, in the Southern District of New York, in
which it was held by Mr. Justice Blatchford, then'District Judge,
and by Chief Justice Waite in the Circuit Court on appeal, that
a libel in rem could not be maintained in admiralty against a
steam tug owned by the city of New York, and under the exclusive control of the commissioners of public' charities and
correction, and employed in the performance of their official
duties, for her collision with the libellant's vessel through the
negligence of those in charge of the tug.
The duty of the State to protect the property of all from destruction by fire covers vessels in its harbors, as well as buildings within its territory. The authority of the fire department
and its members as to both kinds of property is derived from
the municipal law, and not from the maritime law. Ralli v.
Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 419, 420. All the shipping, foreign and
domestic, in the port, is under the same safeguard, and subject
to the same risks. Prompt, decisive and unembarrassed action
of the firemen is necessary to the protection of both buildings
and vessels from the dangers of a conflagration. The necessity
of allowing a municipal fire-boat to proceed on her way to put
out a fire affords a special reason for not allowing her, while so
m. But all the reasons for
occupied, to be seized on a libel in
not maintaining an action of this kind against the city in a court
of common law apply with undiminished force to a libel against
the city inpersonam in a court o! admiralty.
In any aspect of the case, therefore, we are of opinion that
this. suit cannot be maintained against the city of New York;
not by the local law of New York, because that law, as declared
by the Court of Appeals of the Sfate, is against the maintenance
-of such a suit; not by the maritime law, because according to

JQYCE v. AUTEN.
Statement of the Case.

the municipal law prevailing throughout this country, as declared by the highest court of every State in which the question has arisen, cities are not liable to such suits, and no authoritative precedent or satisfactory rdason has been pioduce d for
applying a different rule in a court of admiralty.

JOYCE v. AUTEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 83. Argue&November 7,1900.-Decided December 24, 1900.

A surety who signs an unconditional promise is not discharged from liability
thereon by reason of any expectation, reliance or condition, unless notice
thereof be given to the promisee ; or, in other words, the contract stands
as expressed in the writing in the absence of conditions which are known
to the recipient of the promise.
An assignment in insolvency does not disturb liens created prior thereto
expressly or by implication in favor of a creditor.

ON March 20, 1893, the plaintiff in error, as a sUrety, executed
with his principal the following note:

"Three years after date, we, or either of us, promise to pay
to the order of C. H. Whittemore, as receiver of the McCarthy

& Joyce Company, the sum of nine thousand ($9000.00) dollars,
with interest at six per cent per annum from date till paid.

This is one of the three notes executed for purchase money of
the assets of the McCarthy-Joyce Company, this day sold to
James E. Joyce & Company.
" JAEs E. JOYCE & Co.
"JoHN

JOYCE.

"Little Rock, Arkansas, March 20, 1893."
This note was transferred before duq for value to the First
National Bank of Little Rock, which afterwards went into the
hands of a receiver. Such receivership was changed, and the defendant in error is the present receiver. The note not having

