OCTOBER T.ERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

they may not arise upon another trial, we deem it unnecessary
now to consider them.
It results that the trial court erred upon, the question of the
measure of damages applicable to the case. Is judgment must be reversed with directionsfor a new trial and
forfurtherpoceedings consistent with the principles of
this opinion, and it is so ordered.
M~TR. JUSTIcE. BROWN and MR. JusTricE P EOK

dissented.

In re VIDAL.
ORIGINAL.
No Number. Submitted April 23,1900.-Decided November 12, 1900.

Section 716, Rev. Stat., does not empower this Court to review the proceedings of military tribunals by certiorari.
The act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, having discontinued the tribunal established under that act, and created a successor, authorized to take possession of its records and to take jurisdiction of all cases and proceedings
pending therein, this Court has no jurisdiction to review its proceedings.
Such tribunals are not courts with jurisdiction in law or equity, within
the meaning of those terms as used in Article Thrbe of the Constitution.

AfXr. Frederic 1). .feJenney, MIr. Francis H. Dexter and
.Mr. Wayne Mfac Veagh for petitioners.
.Mr. Solicitor Generalfor the United States.
MR.CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an application for leave to file a petition for certiorari to review the proceedings of a tribuhal established by a
General Order, numbered 88, of Brigadier-General Davis, of
the United States Army, then commanding the department of
Porto Rico and the supreme military authority in that island,
in the nature of a quo warranto to oust Vidal and others from

CHAPIN v. FYB.
Syllabus.

the municipal offices of the town of Guayama. The application
was submitted April 23, 1900, and, as usual, time was given for
a brief in opposition, which was presented April 30.
Section 716 of the Revised Statutes brought forward from
section 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, provides: "The Supreme Court and the Circuit and District Courts shall have
power to issue writs of scire faoias. They shall also have
power to issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute,
which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
This court is-not thereby empowered to review the proceedings of military tribunals by certiorari. Nor are such tribunals
courts with jurisdiction in law or equity within the meaning of
those terms as used in the third Article of the Constitution, and
the question of the issue of the writ of certiorari in the exercise
of inherent general power cannot arise in respect of them.
By act of Congress of April 12,1900,31 Stat. 77, c. 191, taking
effect by its terms on the first of May, the tribunal in question
was, as the act states, discontinued, and a United States District Court established as its successor, authorized to take possession of its records and to take jurisdiction of all cases and
proceedings pending therein.
The result is, from either point of view, that this application
cannot be entertained.

Leave denied.

CHAPIN- . FYE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KALAMAZOO COUNTY, MICHIGAN.
No. 182. Submitted October 29,1900.-Decided November 19, 1900.

An assignment of error in this court that the decision of a state Supreme,
Court was inconsistent with certain paragraphs of an alleged brief putting

forward a Federal question, does not amount to a compliance with the
requirements of ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes.
Where a Federal question is raised in the state courts, the party who brings
the case to this court cannot raise here another Federal question, which
was not raised below.

