OCTOBER TERMI, 1900
Counsel.

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 22. Argued March 14, 1900.-Decided November 26, 1900.
In a charter-party which contains a clause for cesser of the liability of the
charterers, coupled with a clause creating a lien in favor of the ship
owner, the cesser clause is to be construed, if possible, as inapplicable
to a liability with which the lien is not commensurate.
By a charter-party, the charterers agreed to pay a stipulated rate of freight
on proper delivery of' the cargo at the port of destination, and to discharge the cargo at that port, at the rate of an average amount daily;
and the charter-party contained these clauses: "The bills of lading to
be signed as presented, without prejudice to the charter." "Vessel to
have an absolute lien upon the cargo for all freight, dead freight and
demurrage. Charterers' responsibility to cease when the vessel is loaded
and bills of lading are signed." The bills of lading provided that the
cargo should be delivered to the charterers or their assigns, "they paying freight as per charter-party, and average accustomed;" but did not
mention demurrage.
Held: That the cesser clause did not affect the liability of the charterers
to the ship owners for demurrage according to the chater-party.
A provision in a charter-party, obliging the charterers to discharge the
cargo at the port of destination at the average rate of a certain amount
per day, and requiring them to pay a certain sum for every day's detention "by default of" the charterers, does not make them liable
for a detention caused by the actual firing of guns from an enemy's ships

of war upon the forts in the harbor, rendering the discharge of the cargo
dangerous and iy'possible.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mrb. Everett P. Theeler, for Crossman, cited Ford v. Gotesworth, L. R. 4 Q. B. 127, S. C. 5 Q. B. 544; Cunningham v.
-Dunn, L. R. 3 C. P. Div. 443 ; DaZ v. .Neson, 6 App. Gas. 38;
Carsanegov. Wheeler, 16 Fed. Rep. 248; The Svlartan,25 Fed.
Rep. 44; White v. Steamship Winchester Co., 23 Scottish L. R.
342; Gates v. Goodloe, 101 U. S. 612; Geismer v. Lake Skore &

rne Young &
Xfichigan Sqouthern Railroad,102 N. Y. 563;
Harston?'sContract,L. R. 31 Gh. Div. 168 ; Cafaviniv. WValker,
9 Irish Rep. G. L. 431 ; Baily v. De Crespigny,L. R. 4 Q. B. 180;

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
Counsel.

Price v. Harthorn,44 N. Y. 94; 1600 tons Nitrate of Soda,
15 U. S. App. 369; lfaugh v. -Morris, L. iR. 8 Q. 13. 202;
Cargo ex Argos, L. R. 5 P. C. 134; Davies v..Ak Teagh, 4
Ex. Div. 265; Leer v. Yates, 3 Taunt. 387; Postlethwaitev.
.i eeland, 5 App. Cas. 599; Grant v. Coverdale, 9 App. Cas.
470; Budgett v. Binnington, L. R. 25 Q. B. D. 320; Davis v.
Wallace, 3 Cliff. 123; Clink v. Radford, 1891, 1 Q. B. 625;
.fcLean v. Fleming, 2 H. L. Sc. App. 128; Gledtanes v. Allen,
(1852) 12 0. B. 202; Insurance Co. v. Dutcher, 95 TT. S. 269;
Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50; Gen. .Mut. Ins. Co. v. Sherwood, 14 How. 351; 117oolsey v. Funke, 121 N. Y. 87; Reid v.
Syvrague, 72 N. Y. 457; Nicoll v. Sands, 131 N. Y. 19; Thatteau v. Fenwick, L. R. 1 Q. B. 346 (1893); I-ubbard v. Tenbrook, 124 Penn. St. 291; Cummings v. Sargent, 9 Met. (Mass.)
172; Bergenthal v. Fiebrantz,48 Wisconsin, 435; 3finor v. .Mechanics' Bank, 1 Pet. 46; Bridenbecker v. Lowell, 32 Barb: 9;
New Orleans. Railroad Co. v. Hanning, 15 Wall. 649 ;" Balti9nore Trust & Guarantee Co. v. Hambleton, 40 L. R. Ann. 216;
The Edward H. Blake, 63 U. S. App. 507; Alexander v. Dowie,
1 Hurlst. & N. 152; Leather XJanufacturers' Bank v. Yorgan,
117 U. S. 96; Penn. .Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S.
685; Palnerton v. lluxford, 4 Denio, 166; Nassoiy v. Tomlinson, 148 N. Y. 326; Boflnger v. Tutyes, 120 U. S. 198; United
States v. Child, 12 Wall. 232; Fuller v. -en,
138 N. Y.
231; Laycock v. Pickles, 4 B. & S. 497; Wilson v. Frisbie,57
Georgia, 269; Quinlan v. KEeiser, 66 Missouri, 603; *LinvilleV.
State, 130 Indiana, 210.
Zr. Lawrence Kneeland, for Burrill, cited Hanson v. liar-

rold, 1 Q. B. (1894) 612; In re bags of.Linseed, 1 Black, 108;
The 1 G. Johnson, 48 Fed. Rep. 696; Chap2 el v. Comfort,
10 C. B. N. S. 810; Smith v. Sieveking, 5 E. & B. 589; Fry
v. Bank of India, L. R. 1 C. P. 0,9; Gray v. Carr, L. R. 6
Q. B. 522; Dayton v. Parke, 14-2 N. Y. 391; Porteus v.
Watney, L. R. 3 Q. B. D. 534; Clink v. Radford, (1891)
1 Q. B. 625; .Brankelow S. S. Co. v. Canton Is. Co., 2 Q. B.
(1899) 178; Ogden v. Graham, 1 Best & Smith, 773; Sleeper v.
Puig,17 Blatchford, 36; Sixteen hundredtons of Nitrate of Soda

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

v. ffMLeod, 61 Fed. Rep. 849; Booge v. Cargo of Dry Boards, 42
Fed. Rep. 335; Budgett v. Binnington, 25 Q. B. D. 320; Hall
v. Eastwick, 1 Lowell, 456; Postlethwaitev. Fi'eeland, 5 App.
Cas. 599; Davis v. Wallace, 3 Clifford, 123; Cargo ex Argos, L.
R. 5 P. C. 134; Thiis v. Byers, 1 Q. B. D. 244; Daviesv. -e'Feagh,4 Ex. Div. 265 ; Leer v. Yates, 3 Taunt. 387; Barker v.
Hodgson, 3 Maule & Sel. 267; Barret v. Dutton, 4 Camp. 333;
Grant v. Coverdale, 9 App. Cases, 470; Perkins v. Hart, 11
Wheat. 237; Harden v. Gordon, 2 Mason, 541.
MR.JUsTi E

Gn.y delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes up by writ of certiorari issued by this court
to review a decree in admiralty of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, which reversed a decree of the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York; and appears by the recokd to have been in substance as
follows:
A libel in admiralty in personam was filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York by the owners of the bark Kate Burrill against her charterers to recover fifty-three days' demurrage for her detention
at Rio Janeiro in Brazil, in unloading a cargo of lumber shipped
for that port from Pensacola in Florida, under a charter-party
dated March 7, 1893, by which the charterers were to pay a
stipulated rate of freight on proper delivery of the cargo at the
port of discharge, and which contained these other provisions:
"Cargo to be furnished at port of loading at the average rate
of not less than twenty thousand superficial feet per running
day, Sundays excepted; and to be discharged at port of destination at the average rate of not less than twenty thousand superficial feet per running day, Sundays excepted.
"Lay days to commence from the time the vessel is ready to
receive or discharge cargo, and written notice thereof is given to
the party of the second part, or agent; and for each and every
day's detention by default of the said party of the second part,
or agent, fifty-nine -% dollars United States gold (or its equivalent) per day, day by day, shall be paid by the said party of the

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.

103

Opinion of the Court.

second part, or agent, to the said party of the first part, or
agent.
"The cargo to be received at the port of loading within reach
of ship's tackles, and to be delivered at port of discharge according to the custom of said port. Vessel to discharge at saf6 anchorage ground in Rio Bay designated by charterers.
"The bills of lading to be signed as presented, without prejudice to this charter. Any difference ii1 freight to be settled
before the vessers departure from port of loading. If in vessel's favor, in cash, less insurance. If in charterers' favor, by
captain's draft upon his consignees, payable ten days after arrival of vessel at port of discharge. Vessel to have an absolute
lien upon the cargo for all freight, dead freight, and demurrage.
Charterers' responsibility to cease when the vessel is loaded and
bills of lading are signed."
The libel alleged, in the fourth article, that the vessel was
loaded with the cargo of lumber at Pensacola, and sailed thence
for Rio Janeiro, where she arrived about August 30, 1893 ; and,
in the fifth article, "that on September 4, 1893, notice in writing that the vessel was ready to discharge her said cargo was
duly given by the master of said vessel or her duly authorized
agents to the Companhia Industrial do Brazil, the agent of the
respohidents at said port of Rio, who received the said cargo;"
but that the vessel did not complete the discharge until November 28, 1893, being a period of fifty-three days beyond the
twenty-six days, Sundays exclusive, allowed for the disclarge
by the charter.
The libel was allowed to be amended in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, by alleging "that at the time of giving the notice of
her readiness to discharge her cargo, mentioned in the fifth article, the said vessel was in fact ready to discharge upon the
charterers designating a safe anchorage for that purpose;" by
setting forth more particularly the times of the delay and suspension of the discharge of the cargo, and by alleging that dur-ing all those times the vessel was ready and willing to discharge the same; and by further alleging that there had been
no payment or accord and satisfaction of the claim for demurrage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Among the defences set up in the District Court, and more
fully, but with no substantial difference, in an amended answer
fled by leave in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and to the suffi.ciency of each of which defences the libellant filed exceptions
in either court, were those which are here numbered, for conveience, as the exceptions were numbered in the Circuit Court

of Appeals, and which were stated in the amended answer as
follows:
Second. "That the charter-party referred to in the libel contained a clause providing that the vessel should have an absolute
lien upon the cargo for freight and demurrage, and that the
charterers' responsibility should cease upon the loading of the
cargo and signing of the bills of lading; that said vessel was
fully laden, as alleged in the fourth article of the libel, and that
thereafter, and long prior to September 4, 1893, (the date upon
which it is alleged in the fifth article of said libel that notice in
writing was given to the agents of the respondents at Rio Jfaneiro that said vessel was ready to discharge her cargo,) bills of
lading of similar tenor for the whole of said cargo were duly
signed by the master of said vessel, a copy of which is annexed
hereto, and made part hereof ; and said bills of lading were duly
assigned and delivered to the Companhia Industrial do Brazil,
and by them assigned and delivered to Messrs. Manoel da Cruz
& Filho, who thereby became the consignees of said cargo; and
that thereupon all liability of these respondents to the owners of
said vessel under said charter-partly ceased, and it became the
duty of the master and owner of said vessel, upon the failure,
alleged in the fifth article of said libel, of the consignee of said
cargo to discharge the same at the agreed rate per day, to notify
said consignee of the amount of the demurrage claimed by reason of. said failure, and to hold said cargo until the same should
have been paid, in accordance with the terms of said charterparty." The bills of lading (as appears by the copy annexed
to the answer) state that the lumber had been shipped by the respondents, and was to be delivered "untd order or to their assigns, they paying freight for the said lumber as per charterparty dated March 7, 1893, and average accustomed.

Third. "Tliat when said vessel arrived at Rio Janeiro, the

CROSSMAN v,. BURRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

owners of said cargo used all reasonable diligence in and about
receiving the cargo shipped upon the said vessel, and removing
thp same therefrom; that the libellants were prevented from
discharging the same, and the respondents were prevented from
receiving the same, any sooner than they did, by reason of the
acts of the public enemy, to wit, certain vessels of war which
were then in the harbor of Rio Janeiro, and were engaged in
firing upon the forts in said harbor, and making war upon the
government of Brazil, and that the firing between said vessels
of war and the said forts made it impossible to discharge the
said cargo or to receive -it from the said vessel, any sooner than
it was discharged or received; that the said cargo was deliv,
ered according to the custom of said port of Rio Janeiro, and
that the detention alleged in the libel, if any such there be, was
caused by said acts of the public enemy, and not by any default
of the res)ondents; that the captain of the said vessel and
Messrs. Phipps Brothers & Co., the agents of the libellants,
acquiesced in the said delay, and recognized the necessity therefor.
Fourth. "That when the said cargo was delivered, the said
agents of the libellants accepted and received from the said consignee, the-sum of five hundred and fifteen pounds, six shillings
and five pence, British sterling, in full satisfaction and payment
of all claim or demand under the said charter-party, and an
account was made and stated between the said agents of the
libellants and the said consignees respecting all claims under
the charter-party aforesaid, and the balance due upon the said
accounting was paid by the said consignee to the said agents,
and accepted and received by them in full satisfaction thereof."
The District Court, understanding the facts stated in the
answer to have been admitted, sustained the second exception,
overruled the third and fourth exceptions, denied a motion to
withdraw these exceptions and to amend. the libel, and dismissed the libel. 65 Fed. Rep. 104.
The libellants appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which,
after allowing amendments of the libel and answer, sustained
the second and: third exceptions, and overruled the fourth exception, and authorized proofs to be taken upon the defence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

payment and accord and satisfaction; and afterwards, being
satisfied upon proofs so taken that there had been no payment
or accord and satisfaction of the claim for demurrage, entered
a decree for the libellants. 35 U. S. App. 608; 62 U. S. App.
3r68.

The respondents thereupon applied for and obtained a writ
of certiorari from this court.
The libellants' claim for demurrage is based on the provisions
of the charter-party by which, after the vessel is ready to discharge her cargo of lumber at the port of destination, and
written notice thereof given to the charterers, they agree to
discharge the lumber "at the average rate of not less than
twenty thousand superficial feet per running day, Sundays excepted," and to pay a certain sum, by way of demurrage, "for
each and every day's detention by default of" the charterers
or their agents.
The charter-party further requires "the bills of lading to be
signed as presented, without prejudice to this charter," and
contains these clauses: "Vessel to have an absolute lien upon
the cargo for all freight, dead freight and demurrage. Charterers' responsibility to cease'when vessel is loaded and bills of
lading are signed."
After the vessel had been loaded, bills of lading were duly
signed by the master, by the terms of which the cargo was to
be delivered to the charterers or their assigns, "they paying
freight as per charter-party," "and average accustomed" referring to the charter by its date, but not mentioning demurrage.
The first question to be considered is how far the claim of
the ship owners against the charterers for demurrage is affected
by what is commonly called the cesser clause in the charterparty, "Charterers' responsibility to cease when vessel is loaded
and bills of lading are sigmed."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, approving and adopting in
this particular the opinion of the District Judge, held that the
cesser clause afforded no defence to the libel; and we have no
doubt of the correctness of that conclusion.
The charter-party, like many mercantile instruments in corn-

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

mon use, is drawn up in brief and disjointed sentences; and
must be construed according to the intent of the parties as manifested by the whole instrument, rather than by the literal
meaning of any particular clause, taken by.itself.
The question here is how the clause lroviding that the charterers' responsibility shall cease when the vessel is loaded and
bills of lading are signed is to be reconciled with the other provisions of the charter, which not only require the charterers to
pay freight on delivery of the cargo, and demurrage for any
delay in such delivery by fault of the charterers or their agent,
but declare that the vessel is to have an absolute lien upon the
cargo for both freight and demurrage.
The true rule of construction of the cesser clause, in such a
connection, has been settled by a series of English decisions in
which that excellent commercial lawyer, Lord. Esher, lately
Master of the Rolls, took a leading part; and is well summed
up, with the reasons supporting it, by himself and other judges,
in two recent cases in the Court of Appeal. Clink v. Radford,
(1891) 1 Q. B. 625; Hansen v. Harrold,(1894) 1 Q. B. 612.
In Clink v. Radford, Lord Esher said: "In my opinion, the
main rule to be derived from the cases as to the interpretation
of the cesser clause in a charter-party is that the court will construe it as inapplicable to the, particular breach complained of,
if by construing it otherwise the shipowner would be left unprotected in respect of that particular breach, unless the cesser
clause is expressed in terms that prohibit such a 'conclusion.
In other words, it cannot be assumed that the shipowner, without any mercantile reason, would give up by the cesser clause
rights which he had stipulated for in another part of the contract." Lord Justice Bowen said: "There is no doubt that
the parties may, if they choose, so frame the .clause as to emancipate the charterer from any specified liability without providing for any terms of compensation to the shipowner; but
such a contract would not be one we should expect to see in a
commercial transaction. The cesser clauses,.as they generally
come before .the courts, are clauses which couple or link the
provisions for the cesser of the charterer's liability with a corresponding creation of a lien. There is a principle of reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

which is obvious to commercial minds, and which should be
borne in mind in considering a cesser clause so framed, namely,
that reasonable persons would regard the lien given as an equivalent for the release of responsibility, which the cesser clause
in its earlier part creates, and one would expect to find the lien
commensurate with the release of liability." And Lord Justice
Fry added: "The rule that we areprimafacieto apply to the
construction of a cesser clause followed by a lien clause appears
to me to be well ascertained. That rule seems a most rational
one, and it is simply this, that the two are to be read, if possible, as co-extensive. If that were not so, we should have this
extraordinary result: there would be a clause in the charterparty the breach of which would create a legal liability, there
would then be a cesser clause destroying that liability, and
there would then come a lien clause which did not recreate that
liability in anybody else." (1891) 1 Q. B. 627, 629., 632.
In HMansen v. T[arrold,Lord Esher said that he thought that
Clink v. 1?adford "was a right decision based upon sound
mercantile reasons;" and, after quoting the passages above cited
from the opinions in that case, added : "It seems to me that this
reasoning has not been and cannot be answered. Therefore the
proposition is true, that where the provision for cesser of liability
is accompanied by the stipulation as to lien, then the cesser of
liability is not to apply in so far as the lien, which by the
charter-party the charterers are'able to create, is not equivalent
to the liability of the charterers. Where, in such a case, the
provisions of the charter-party enable the charterers to make
such terms with, the shippers that the lien which is created is
not commensurate with the liability of the charterers under the
charter-party, -then the cesser clause will only apply so far as
the lien which can be exercised by the shipowner is commensurate with such liability." (1894) 1 Q. B. 617, 618.
In short, in a charter-party which contains a clause for cesser
of the liability of the charterers, coupled with a clause creating
a lien in favor of the shipowner, the cesser clause is to be construed, if possible, as inapplicable to a liability with which the
lien is-not commensurate.
In the case at bar, the provision of the charter-party, which

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

requires "the bills of lading to be signed as presented, without
prejudice to this charter," while it obliges the fnaster to sign
bills of lading upon request of the charterers, does not mean
that the bills of lading, or the consignee holding them, shall be
subject to all the provisions of the charter; but only that the
obligations of the charterers to the ship and her owners are not
to be affected by the bill of lading so signed. Gledstanes v.
.Allen, (1852) 12 0. B. 202. The bills of lading, as already
mentioned, provide only for "paying freight for said lumber as
per charter-party dated 7th March, 1893, and average accustomed." They do not mention demurrage, or refer to any provisions of the charter, other than those concerning freight and
average. It is well settled that a bills of lading in such a form
does not subject an indorsee thereof, who receives the goods
under 'it, to any of those other provisions of the charter. It
does not give him notice of, or render him liable to, the specific
provisions of the charter, which require a discharge of a certain
quantity of lumber per day, or, in default thereof, the payment
of a specific sum for a longer detention of the vessel; but he is
entitled to take the goods within a reasonable time after arrival,
and is liable to pay damages for undue delay in taking them,
according to the ordinary rules of law which govern in the
absence of specific agreement. Cliappel v. Conifort, (1861) 10
C.B. (N. S.) 801; Gray v. Carr, (1871) L. R. 6 Q. B. 522;
Portewu v. Watney, (1878) 3 Q. B. D. 534, 537; Serraino v.
Campbell, (1891) 1 Q. B. 283; Dayton, v. Parke, (1894) 142N. Y. 391.
In fcLean v. Fleming,(1871) L. R. 2 H. L. Sc. 128, on which
the charterers relied at the argument in this court, the sole
ground on which the indorsees of the bills of lading were held
to be bound by the provisions of the charter-party was that they
were the persons who had originally authorized the chartering
of the ship. See L. R. 2 H. L. Sc. 133, 134, 136; . C L. R. 6
Q. B. 559, 560. No such fact was pleaded in the case at bar.
The only facts stated in the answer upon this point are that,
after the vessel was fully laden, and long before the iotice to
the charterers that she was ready to discharge, bills of lading,
acknowledging that the lumber had been shipped by the re.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

spondents, and was to be delivered to their order or assigns,
"they paying freight for the said lumber as per charter-party,"
were signed by the master of the vessel, and "were duly as-:
signed and delivered to the Compauhia Industrial do Brazil,
and by them assigned and delivered to" the partnership of da
Cruz and Filho, "who thereby became consignees of the cargo."
Upon this state of facts, the rights of the ship owners against
those consignees depended altogether on the contract created
by the bills of lading, except so far as that contract referred to
the charter-party. Bags of Linseed, (1861) 1 Black, 108. As
observed by Mr. Justice Peckham, when delivering a judgment
of the Court of Appeals'of the State of New York, in regard to
a bill of lading containing a clause exactly like that in the bills
of lading in the case at bar, "It would be a wide stretch to hold
that by this language of the bill of lading, which plainly referred only to the provisions of the charter-party as to the freight
money, a consignee would become liable to demurrage if he accepted the cargo under such a bill." .Dayton v. Parke, 142
N Y. 391, 400.
The necessary consequence is that the responsibility of the
charterers to the ship owners for demurrage according to the
charter-party is not affected by the cesser clause.
The other principal question is of the validity of the defence
that the delay in discharging the cargo was caused by the acts
of the public enemy, and not by any default of the charterers.
Upon this question, the courts below differed in opinion, the
District Court holding that the defence pleaded-was a good one,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals holding that it was not.
This defence, as set up in the amended answer filed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, is that, Wheli the vessel arrived at
Rio Janeiro, the owners of the cargo used all reasdnable" diligence in and about receiving and removing it; that the ship
owners were prevented from discharging the cargo, and the
respondents were prevented from receiving it, any sooner than
they did, "by reason of the acts of the public enemy, to wit,
certain vessels of war which were then in the harbor of Rio Janeiro, and were engaged in firing upon the forts in said harbor,
and making war upon the government of Brazil, and that the

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

firing between said vessels of war and the said forts made it
impossible to discharge the said cargo or to receive it from the
said vessel, any sooner than it was discharged or received; that
the said cargo was delivered according to the custom of said
port of Rio Janeiro, and that the detention alleged in the libel,
if any such there be, was caused by said acts of the public enemy and not by any default of the respondents."
*We are of opinion that, under a charter-party expressed in
such terms, the defence of vis major, as thus pleaded, affords a
complete answer to the claim for demurrage.
It is to be remembered that by the terms of this charterparty it is ofily for "detention by default of" the charterers or
their agent, that they agree to pay the amount of demurrage
specified in the charter.
A detention which is caused, not by any act of the ship owners or of the charterers, but'wholly by the actual firing of guns
from an enemy's ships of war upon the forts in the harbor, directly affecting the vessel and making the discharge of the
cargo dangerous and impossible, cannot be considered as caused
by "default" of the charterers, in any just sense of the word.
In Towle v. Irettell, (1S49) 5 Cush. 18, the Supreme, Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, in an opinion delivered by Mr. Justice
Fletcher, with the concurrence of Chief Justice Shaw and Justices Wilde and Dewey, held that, under a similar provision in
a charter-party, the charterers were not liable for demurrage
while the vessel was detained in quarantine by order of a foreign government.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in support of the opposite conclusion, quoted from an opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Clifford, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Massachusetts, the following passage: "The settled rule is
that, where the contract of affreightment expressly stipulates
that a given number of days shall be allowed for the discharge
of the cargo, such a limitation is an express stipulation that the
vessel shall in no event be detained longer for that purpose, and
that if so detained it shall be considered as the delay of the
freighter, even where it was not occasioned by his fault, but
was inevitable. Where the contract is that the ship shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

unladen within a certain number of days, it is no defence to an
action for demurrage that the overdelay was occasioned by the
crowded state of the docks, or by port regulations or government restraints." Davis v. Wallace, (1868) 3 Clifford, 123, 131.
But in none of the authorities cited, either by the learned
justice in that case, or by the Circuit Court of Appeals in
this, in support of this general statement, was the liability of
the charterers for demurrage restricted to the case of their default. In Davis v. Wallace, indeed, their liability was so restricted; but the defence was a crowded state of the docks.*
and no question of port regulations or government restraints
was before the court.
In Thatcher v. Boston. Gas Light Co., (1875) 2 Lowell , 361,
363, Judge Lowell, while following that decision in a similar
case, said that the decisions in Towle v. iettell, and in Davisv.
Wallace "are not inconsistent with each other; and they mean
that the proviso intends to exonerate the charterer from delay
occasioned by superior force acting djirectly upon the discharge
of that cargo, and not from the indirect action of such force,
which by its operation upon other vessels has caused a crowded
state of the docks." And he distinctly recognized that a fail.
ure of contract on the part of the charterer, "caused by a direct and immediate vis major, or something like it," would not
be a "default," within the meaning of the charter-party.
In Davis v. Pendergast,(1879) 16 Blatchford, 565, 567, Chief
Justice Waite, speaking of a similar provision, said: "The respondents, in effect, agreed that no more than forty-five running days should be occupied in loading and discharging the
cargo, unless it was occasioned by some fault of the vessel, or
some unusual and extraordinary interruption that could not
have been anticipated when the contract was made."
The case of Nfitrate of Soda, (1894) 15 U. S. App. 369, in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, upon which
these libellants much rely, falls far short of supporting their
claim. In that case, the clause in question was in the same
words as in this case; the charterers sent the vessel, for the purpose of loading a cargo of nitrate of soda which they had purchased, to a port in Chili, during the oxistence of a civil war

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
opinion of the Court.

there, and while the port was in the possession of the Insurgents; the sellers declined for a time to deliver the cargo, because they feared that if the export duty, which by the law of
Chili was payable upon all such cargoes, was paid 'by them to
the insurgents, they might remain liable for it to-the rightful
government. It was held that the charterers were liable for
the stipulated demurrage during the delay so occasioned. The
court, speaking of the word "default" in the charter, said:
"The most that can be claimed for its effect is that it excludes
liability of the charterers for delay in loading or discharging,
if the delay result from a sudden or unforeseen interruption or
prevention of the act itself of loading or discharging, not occurring through the connivance or fault of the charterers."
"But there was no 'interference upon the part of the Chilian
government, or upon the part of any arnied force, to prevent
their obtaining possession of the cargo, or handling or moving
the same, or placing it within reach of the vessel's tackle." 15
U. S. App. 3[4, 376:
In the case at bar, the defence of vis major, as pleaded in
the answer, was that the ship owners were prevented from discharging the cargo, and the charterers were prevented from
receiving it, any sooner than they did, by reason of acts of the
public enemy, to wit, certain vessels of war, then in the harbor
of Rio Janeiro, were engaged in firing upon the forts in the
harbor and in making war upon the government of Brazil; that
the firing between those vessels and those forts made it impossible to discharge or to receive the cargo froni the vessel any
sooner than it was dischargedor received; and that the detention alleged in the libel was caused by those acts of the public
enemy, and not by any default of the charterers.
The
mi8
major, so pleaded, was, in the words of opinions above
cited, a "superior force, acting directly upon the discharge of
the cargo;" "a direct and immediate vis major;" an "unusual and extraordinary interruption that could not have been
anticipated when the contract was made;" "a sudden and unforeseen interruption or prevention of the act itself of loading
or discharging, not occurring through the connivance or fault
VOL. OcLX

x-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the-Court.

of the charterers," and an "interference on the part of an armed
force, preventing the handling or moving of the cargo."
Upon principle, and according to the general current of authority, the detention alleged was not caused by default of the
charterers, and did not render them responsible for demurrage,
under this charter-party.
The Circuit Court of Appeals therefore erred in sustaining
the exception, in the nature of a demurrer, to that article of
the answer which set up the defence of vis major; and for
this reason its decree for the libellants must be reversed. The
decree of the District Court, which dismissed the libel, must
also be reversed, and the case remanded to the District Court,
in order that both parties may have an opportunity to introduce
proofs upon the issue presented by that article.
In the brief of the libellants in this court, it is suggested that
the allegations of that article of the answer were not in fact
true; and reference is made to the master's deposition, taken
after the delivery of the principal opinion in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, in which he testified that during all the time -that
the vessel lay at the wharf, and until the completion of the
discharge, there was no firing in the harbor or other act of
hostilities, which prevented her discharge of the cargo or its
reception by the consignees.
But on the same page of the brief it is admitted that "this
question having been heard on the exception to the sufficiency
of the defence, the question as to the truth of the allegations
of the answer was not before the court." And this is conclusively established by its opinions and decrees. The principal
opinion shows that it took up, in the first instance, the questions of law raised by the exceptions to the answer, because
their determination might relieve the parties from the delay
and expense of introducing proof. 35 U. S. App. 620. By the
decree thereupon made, and set out in the record, the third
exception, as well as the second, was sustained, upon the ground
-that the article of the answer to which it related was "insufficient in the law to constitute a defence;" and the fourth exception was overruled. In hort, the defences of the cesser clause
lind of vis major were both held to be insufficient as matter of

CROSSMAN v. BURRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

law, so that no evidence in support of either of them was competent, and no evidence to contradict either was necessary or
material.
The only questions of fact, left open for the introduction of
proofs, were those of payment and of accord and satisfaction,
presented by the remaining article of the answer. That the
Circuit Court of Appeals *understood such to be the condition
of the case is apparent from its supplemental opinion, after
proofs had been taken, in which it observed that "most of the
questions arising upon this appeal have been disposed of by this
court upon a former occasion, ard it remains to be considered
whether the defences of payment and accord and satisfaction
are sustained by the proofs;" and then proceeded, upon an examination of the proofs, to hold that those defences were not
sustained as to the claim for demurrage, and to enter a decree
for the libellants in accordance with its former opinion. 62
U. S. App. 368.
. The questions of payment, and of accord and satisfaction, need
no extended notice. They are pure questions of fact, depending on conflicting evidence and on the peculiar circumstances
of the case; upon which, had they been the only questions presented by the record, a writ of certiorari would not have been
granted; which appear to this court, upon examination of the
proofs, to have been rightfully decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals; and which it would serve no useful purpose to discuss.
But for the reasons above stated, in considering the effect of
the defence of vis major,
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the District
Court are reversed,and the cause is remanded to the District
Court forfurthey proeedingsin accordancewith the op inion of this court.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

