OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

DOOLEY v. ITHADEN.
HADDEN v. DOOLEY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEC0OD
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 96, 99. Argued November 9,12, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

In July, 1895, Harold F. Hadden and James E. S. Hadden brought an action in the New York Supreme Court for the city and county of New
York, against the Natchaug Silk Company, Michael F. Dooley, personally
and as receiver of the First National Bank of Willimantic, John A. Pangburn, and others, including William I. Buttling, sheriff of Kings County.
The complaint alleged certain fraudulent and collusive proceedings between the Natchaug Silk Company, Dooley, receiver of the First National
Bank of Willimantic, and John A. Pangburn, and, under a prayer of the
bill, an injunction pendente lite was granted restraining the sheriff of
Kings County from selling property of the silk company in his possession as sheriff upon executions against said company in favor of John A.
Pangburn or Dooley, as receiver, and restraining Pangburn and Dooley
from further proceedings at law against the property of the silk company
in the State of New York. The action was removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and repeated
motions to dissolve the temporary injunction were there made and denied, and the order of the Circuit Court denying the motions was, on appeal, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Subsequently, the taking
of testimony in the case having been closed, the defendants Dooley and
Pangburn made another motion, upon the plenary proofs, to dissolve
the injunction, and this motion was granted, after hearing, by Circuit
Judge Lacombe, on November 27, 1896. The case came to final hearing
in the Circuit Court, and resulted in the decree dismissing the bill on
January 27, 1898. Upon appeal by the complainants the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed the decree in part and affirmed it in part. From this
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals the complainants appealed to
this court, on the ground that the decree should have adjudged to the
complainants priority of lien on all the goods in dispute; and the defendants appealed on the ground that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in
reversing the decree of the Circuit Court. The facts, as stated in the
opinion of Circuit Judge Shipman, were substantially these: On April 23,
1895, the Natchaug Silk Company, a Connecticut corporation, owed the
First National Bank of Willimantic, a national banking association located in. Connecticut, over $300,000, and was entirely insolvent. In consequence of this indebtedness the bank suspended, and Michael F. Dooley

DOOLEY v. HADDEN.
Statement of the Case.
was appointed its receiver on April 26, 1895, by the Comptroller of the
Currency. On April 23, 1895, J. D. Chaffee, as president and general
manager of the silk company, in consideration of and to reduce this indebtedness, sold to the bank 107 cases of manufactured silk, the value of
which cannot be accurately ascertained, but which is said to be about
$20,000. They were then, or had been, shipped to New York, where they
were subsequently taken by Dooley into his possession, and removed to
Brooklyn. On May 8, 1895, he, as receiver, attached the goods by attachment, which was subsequently dissolved. On May 30, 1895, he sold and
assigned to Paugburn, who is a resident of the State of'New York, notes
of the silk company, not paid by this transfer, amounting to about $67,000,
for the nominal consideration of $200, which sale Dooley made by virtue
of an order of the Circuit Court of the Southern District of New York,
with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, for the purpose of
enabling a suit to be brought in the State of New York, by a resident of
that State, in his own name, against the silk company, a foreign corporation. Pangburn did bring suit on said notes against the silk company,
on June 1, 1895, in the proper state court, and obtained an order of attachment, a judgment for the full amount thereof, and an execution
which was levied by the sheriff of King's County upon these cases of silk.
The sale was stopped by this injunction order. On June 6, 1895, the
complainants, who are creditors of the silk company to the amount of
about $22,000, brought suit against it in a court of the State of New
York, and obtained an order of attachment under which the sheriff of
Kings County levied an attachment upon the same silk. On July 2, 1895,
the complainants brought a bill in equity, upon which the injunction
order in question in this suit was issued. Held, that the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, in so far as it reversed the decree of the Circuit
Court, should be reversed, and the decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the bill of complaint, should be affirmed.

IN July, 1895, Harold F. Hadden an& James E. S. Hadden
brought an action in the New York Supreme Court for the
city and county of New York, against the Natchaug Silk Com-

pany, Michael F. Dooley, personally and as receiver of the
First National Bank of Willimantic, John A. Pangburn, and
others, including William I. Buttling, sheriff of Kings County.
The complaint alleged certain fraudulent and collusive proceedings between the .Natchaug Silk Company, Dooley, receiver of
the First National Bank of Willimantic, and John A. Pangburn;
and, under a prayer of the bill, an injunction j2endente li was
granted restraining the sheriff of Kings County from selling
property of the silk company in his possession as sheriff upon
executions against said company in favor of John A. Pangburn

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
'Statement of the Case.

or Dooley, as receiver, and restraining Pangburn and Dooley
from further proceedings at law against the property of the
silk company in the State of New York.
The action was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, and repeated
motions to dissolve the temporary injunction were made and
denied, and the order of the Circuit Court denying the motions was, on appeal, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
38 U. S. App. 651.
Subsequently, the taking of testimony in the case having
been closed, the defendants Dooley and Pangburn made another
motion, upon the plenary proofs, to dissolve the injunction, and
this motion was granted, after hearing, by Circuit Judge Lacombe, on November 27, 1896.
The case came to final hearing in the Circuit Court, and resuited in a decree dismissing the bill on January 27, 1898.
Upon appeal by the complainants the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree in part and affirmed it in part. From
this decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals the complainants
have appealed to this court, on the ground that the decree
should have adjudged to the complainants priority of lien on
all the goods in dispute; and the defendants-have appealed on
the ground that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in reversing
the decree of the Circuit Court.
The facts, as stated in the opinion of Circuit Judge Shipman,
were substantially these:
On April 23, 1895, the Natchaug Silk Company, a Connecticut corpor ati6n, owed the First National Bank of Willimantic,
a national banking association, located in Connecticut, over
$300,000, and was entirely insolvent. In consequence of this
indebtedness the bank suspended, aid Michael F. Dooley was
appointed its receiver on April 26) 1895, by the Comptroller of
the Currency. On April 23, 1895, J. D. Ohaffee, as president
and general manager of the silk company, in cnsideration of
and to reduce this indebtedness, sold to the bank 101 cases of
manufactured silk, the value of which cannot be accurately
ascertained, but which is said to be about $20,000. They were
then or had been shipped to New York city, where they were

DOOLEY v. HADDEN.
Counsel.

subsequently taken by Dooley into his possession and removed
to Brooklyn. On May 8, 1895, he, as receiver, attached the
goods by an attachment, which was subsequently dissolved.
On May 30, 1895, he sold and assigned to Pangburn, who is a
resident of the State of New York, notes of the silk company,
not paid by this transfer, amounting to about $67,000, for the
nominal consideration of $200, which sale Dooley made by virtue of an order of the Circuit Court of the Southern District of
New York, with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, for the purpose of enabling a suit to be brought in the.
State of New York, by a resident of that State, in his own
name, against the silk company,. a foreign corporation. Pangburn did bring suit on said notes against the silk company on
June 1, 1895, in the proper state court, obtained an order of
attachment, a judgment for the full amount thereof and an
execution, which was levied by the sheriff of Kings County
upon these cases of silk. The sale was stopped by this injunction order.
On June 6, 1895, the complainants, who are creditors of the
silk company to the amount of about $22,000, brought suit
against it, in a court of the State of New York, and obtained
an order of attachment, under which the sheriff of Kings County
levied an attachment upon the same silk.
On July 2, 1895, the complainants brought a bill in equity,
upon which the injunction order now in question Was issued
against Dooley, Pangburn, the silk company and others, alleging that all their acts in connection with the silk were fraudulent, and praying for relief by injunction and otherwise.
It thus appears that the bank and the complainants are creditors of the silk company, and that Dooley, as receiver of the
bank, and the complainants axe each striving to obtain a hold
upon the silk as a means of payment for their respective debts.
.rM. WIliam B. Putney and 2f&. Lockwood .onorg for the
Haddens. .r. Henry B. Twombly was on their brief.
.M .. Edward Winlow Paige for Dooley.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

N-h JUSTICE SMIRUs, after making the above statement, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
Whether Chaffee, as president and general manager of the
silk compan4y, had authority to sell a large portion of the personal property of the company to one of its creditors in part
payment of its debt, and whether his action, if regarded as unauthorized, was ratified by the directors of the company, were
questions much discussed in the courts beldw, and which occupy
a large part of the briefs of counsel filed in this court, but
which, in the view that we take of the case, need not be considered by us.
In both the Circuit Court -and the Circuit Court of Appeals
it was held, upon all the facts, that the notes of 'the silk company held by Dooley, as receiver of the First National Bank of
Willimantic, were valid obligations of the silk company; that
the stale of these notes by Dooley, as receiver, to Pangburn,
under the order of the Circuit Court, with the approval of the
Comptroller of the Currency, vested a good title in Pangburn,
and. that the judgment therein obtained, on June 27, 1895, in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, in favor of
Pangburn, was a valid judgment.
I What remained to consider was the validity of the warrant
of attachment issued and served in favor of Pangburn on June 3,
1895, and of the execution levied on the attached property on
June 27, 1895, as-against the attachment issued on June 6, 1895,
upon the property obtained by the complainants Hadden, under
their suit brought in the Supreme Court of the State of New
York.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the validity of the
notes, of their sale to Pangburn, and of the judgment thereon,
having been established, there was nothing in the evidence on
behalf of the Haddens, as subsequent attaching creditors, which
would justify the court in postponing the prior attachments
and judgment of Pangburn, in whole or in part, and accordingly,
on January 28, 1898, that court rendered a decree on the merits
of the case, dismissing the bill of complaint.
As already stated, the court of appeals concurred with
the

DOOLEY v. HADDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court in holding that the notes and their sale to Pangburn were valid, and that his judgment and attachment of the
goods were valid as against the silk company, but, for reasons
which we shall presently state and considJer, that court was of
opinion that while, as to some of the goods, the attachment and
execution of Pangburn could not be disturbed, yet, as to certain
other parcels of the goods, the attachment of the complainants
was equitably entitled to preference over that of Pangburn, and
accordingly rendered the decree from which both parties have
appealed.
The facts upon which the Court of Appeals proceeded were
not in dispute, and were substantially as follows:
The goods in question consisted of 107 cases of silk. They
had been shipped at different times, in April, 1895, to D. E.
Adams & Company, 77 Greene street, New York. Adams was
a silk merchant who occupied a store at that number, and from
him the silk company leased a part of the store, where it transacted its New York business, through John H. Thompson, who
also was an employ6 of Adams, its manager. On April 15,16,
17 and 19, Fenton, the secretary of the silk company, by direction of Chaffee, sent by railroad forty-three- cases of silk goods
directed to D. E. Adams & Company. On April 22, Chaffee
went to Boston and sent all the silk company's goods in the
Boston office, being eighteen cases and a package, to Adams &
Company. There were forty-five cases of the silk company's
goods in the Adams store before these April shipments from
Willimantic and Boston. On May 2, 1895, the sixty-two boxes
of goods shipped from Willimantic and Boston to Greene street
were removed by Mr. Paige, counsel for Dooley, receiver, and
were stored in Paige's name in the storehouse of F. C. Linde &
Company, in New York city, and on May 18, 1895, were removed by Mr. Paige to the Brooklyn Storage Warehouse Company in Brooklyn, and were there stored in his name. On
May 18, Paige, as attorney for Dooley, as receiver, commenced
suit against the silk company in the Supreme Court of New
York, and attached the sixty-two cases in the Brooklyn warehouse as the goods of the silk company. On May 25, forty-five
boxes of silk goods were removed from the Greene street store

OCTOBER TERAL 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

by Paige's orders and placed. in his name in the Brooklyn warehouse, and soon after were attached by his direction in the
Dooley suit. On May 21, Hadden & Company, the complainants, brought suit in the Supreme Court of New York against
the silk company to recover a de'bt of some twenty-three thousand dollars. A warrant of attachment was served on Thompson, but the sheriff refused to take the goods in the Greene street
store until a bond of indemnity was given to protect him. This
was subsequently furnished, but in the mean time, on May 25,
the goods went to Brooklyn. On June 6, 1895, the goods in
the Brooklynwarehouse were attached by Hadden & Company,
who obtained judgment against the silk company on June 26
for $22,948, and execution was issued therefor, and levied on
the goods in the Brooklyn warehouse. The Dooley attachment was vacated on June 27, 1895, on the application of Hadden & Company, because the suit of a non-resideiat against a
foreign corporation was forbidden by section 1780 of the Code
of Civil Procedure. In the mean time, as previously stated,
Pafgburn, in his suit against the silk company, had issued an
attachment on June 1, 1895, which was levied on June 3 on the
goods in Brooklyn, and had obtained on June 25, 1895, a judgment for $67,116, and dn execution was levied upon the attached
property. .
In this state of facts Circuit Judge Shipman reasoned as follovs (63 U. S. App. 173, 187):
"The 107 cases which were originally in the care of Thompson fi- Greene street, as the bank's goods, went to Brooklyn,
although the exact number which went there on May 25 is not
clearly stated in the record. While creditors were inquiring
with a sheriff at Greene street in regard to these goods, for the
purpose of attachment, they were removed from place to place
by the order of Dooley's counsel, were stored in his name and
were attached in the suit of the bank against the silk company
by his direction. The attempted attachment by the complainants of the forty-five cases in Greene street was prevented by
their removal to Brooklyn. The counsel for Dooley distrusted
the validity of the bills of sale [made by the silk company's
president and manager to the bank,] and desired to secure the

DOOLEY v. HADDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

bank by aid of legal proceedings. The receiver of the bank
had an equal right with other creditors to take legal steps to
secure its debt, but had no right to take unfair steps. The
removal of the forty-five cases to "Brooklynand the storage of
the property in the name of Mr. Paige, so that it could be in a
measure secreted for the purpose of preventing the complainants
from, completing their attachment of these cases, was an unfair
.step. Hadden & Company first appeared as attaching credit
ors on May 21. At this time sixty-two boxes had been attached
in the Dooley suit and forty-five were in Greene street. The
removal of these boxes after May 21 to prevent the completion
of the Haddbn & Company attachment was an unfair advantage
in this race between creditors, and compels a court of equitr to
declare that the complainants should have a prior lien upon the
cases which were in Greene street when the sheriff's bond was
being prepared. There is no apparent equity in giving priority
to their attachment upon 107 cases, but they are entitled only
to a prior lien upon. the goods which they attempted to attach,
an attempt the success of which was foiled by a removal of the
goods."
Circuit Judge Wallace filed a concurring opinion, in which
occur the following observations (p. 188):
"The case resolves itself into a question of priority of liens
between judgment creditors of the Natchaug Silk Company
having executions levied upon 107 boxes of silk in the storehouse of the Brooklyn Storage & Warehouse Company, and its
decision depends upon the priority of the liens acquired by the
attachments in the actions in which the judgments were recovered.

.

.

.

Of these goods forty-five boxes were removed

by Dooley, the receiver of the Willimantic Bank, and stored
in Brooklyn clandestinely for the purpose of defeating a levy
upon them under the attachment in the complainants' action,
until Dooley could procure an attachment and levy upon them
through the instrumentality of Pangburn. A creditor having
property of a debtor in his possession or under his control cannot thus defeat the rights of another creditor who has been in
the mean time using proper diligence to attach it. A race of
diligence between creditors is legitimate, but it cannot be won

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

by the abuse of legal remedies. I cannot doubt that the complainants could recover of Dooley in an action on the case for
his acts in frustrating their attempted levy. A court of equity
under such circumstances should postpone his lien to theirs.
Because the attachment in the Pangburn suit was valid, its lien
cannot be displaced in favor of the complainants as respects the
goods removed before their attachment was obtained .
The theory that the lien of Dooley, as receiver of the bank,
should be postponed to that of the complainants because of a
conspiracy between the bank and the silk company to defraud
the complainants and other creditors is too nebulous upon the
proofs for practical consideration."
As the efforts of the complainants to defeat the claims of
Dooley, receiver, and of Pangburn on the grounds that the
notes of the silk company held by the Willimantic bank were
invalid, and that their liens by attachment or execution or otherwise were fraudulent and void because of a conspiracy between
the bank and the silk company to edefraud the complainants
and other creditors, wholly failed in both the courts below, we
do not consider it necessary to review the voluminous evidence
upon which those courts acted, but think it sufficient to say that
we perceive no error in their conclusions on those subjects.
. It remains for us to consider whether the Circuit Court of
Appeals was right in holding that the attachment and levy of
Pangburn, on the forty-five boxes of silk, should be postponed
in favor of the subsequent levy of the complainants.
It may well be questioned whether, upon the pleadings, that
was an open question.
The only allegation touching the custody of the goods and
their removal from one place to another contained in the original bill was as follows:
"That on the 23d day of April, Chaffee (the president and
ananager of the silk company) illegally and fraudulently, and
without any authority of the board of directors of said Katchaug
Silk Company, and with full knowledge of the insolvency of
the company as aforesaid, executed a paper purporting to be
a bill of sale of all the goods belonging to the Natchaug Silk
Company, in New York city, to said Michael F. Dooley, re-

DOOLEY v. aADDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

ceiver of the First National Bank of Willimantic; -that said,
assignment or transfer was wholly without consideration; it
was made to hinder, delay and defraud creditors' and partic-

ularly these plaintiffs, and was aid is wholly illegal and void.
"That said Dooley, without lawful right or title, took possession of said goods and secretly removed part thereof first,
to a storehouse in New York city, and later to the storehouse
of the Brooklyn Storage and Warehouse Company in Brooklyn,
in the county of Kings; that on the 25th day of May said
Dooley secretly removed the remaining boxes of silks to the
said storehouse of the Brooklyn Storage and Warehouse Company, where all of said silks, to the number of one hundred and
seven boxes, were placed in the name of the attorney of said
Dooley."
As those portions of the allegations that assert that there was
no consideration for the sale and transfer of the goods to Dooley,
receiver, and that it was made to hinder and defraud creditors,
have been eliminated from consideration, there remains only the
"allegation that Dooley took possession of the goods and secretly
removed them to the Brooklyn storehouse and there placed
them in the name of his attorney.
As the purpose and theory of the bill was to defeat the Pangburn judgment and execution because without consideration
and fraudulent as against creditors, it is evident that the allegations respecting Dooley's possession and removal of the goods
had reference to the alleged fraudulent scheme, and cannot be
regarded as presenting or raising any issue of misconduct on
the part of Dooley or Pangburn in pursuing lawful remedies
against goods of the silk company in the possession of Dooley
and his attorney.
The original bill was filed on July 2, 1895. Subsequently,
on January 14, 1897, after all the proofs were in, the complainants, with leave of court, filed an amended bill of complaint,
containing more particular statements as to the alleged fraud
and conspiracy between the silk company and the bank, but
omitting altogether any allegation as to the removal by Dooley
of the goods from New York city to the storehouse in Brooklyn, and containing no allegation of fraud or unfairness on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

part of Dooley or his attorney in the management of the Pangburn attachment and execution. Nor does it appear in the several opinions of the Circuit Court, filed from time to time,
during the contest in that court, that any specific charge was
made or relied on that there had been any unfair or iniquitous
practice resorted to on the part of Dooley or Pangburn in the
removal of the goods from New York city to Brooklyn, with a
view to obtain an unjust advantage.
But, passing by the fact that neither the original nor the
amended bill contained apt allegations to make an issue as
to unfair or improper conduct by Dooley or Pangburn in
the prosecution of the attachment and execution under the
Pangburn judgment, and assuming that the complainants had
made such allegations, we are unable to concur with the judges
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in thinking that the facts, shown
by this record, disclose a case of practice of a character to warrant the courts to displace the priority of the Pangburn attachment and execution in favor of those of the complainants.
The essential facts were that the goods were in the possession
of Dooley in the city of New York. They had come into his
possession by virtue of a formal sale made by Chaffee, the president and manager of the silk company, to Dooley, as receiver
of the Willimantic National Bank. Such sale was, indeed, subsequently, in the proceedings in this suit, held to have been ineffectual to pass title to the goods, not because the bank was
not a bona fide creditor of the silk' company, but because the
Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that Chaffee was without authority, as president and manager, to make such sale.
Hence, although Dooley's possession could not avail to protect
the goods in his possession from attachment and seizure by
creditors of the silk company, yet such possession cannot be regarded as fraudulent or collusive in such a sense as to deprive
Dooley, as receiver of the bank, of a right to take legal proceedings, like any other creditor, against the goods. Suppose
it be conceded that Dooley was aware, or had reason to apprehend, that there were other creditors of the silk company, who
would pursue remedies against the goods in his hand. Such
knowledge or apprehension would not devolve upon him, or

DOOLEY v. HADDEN.
Opinioln of the Court.

upon his attorney, any fiduciary relation towards such creditors.
It did not become his duty to inform them of the whereabouts
of the goods, in order that they might precede him in the race
of diligence. His primary duty was to the Willimantic National Bank and its creditors, and while the law will not permit
him to resort to fraudulent devices or to false representations in
order to delay or deceive other creditors, we are unable to agree
with the learned judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
thinking that the removing of these goods from New York
city to the Brooklyn warehouse and there storing them in the
name of a third person, while awaiting the maturity of legal
proceedings, Invalidated Pangburn's attachment and execution.
The learned judges, indeed, speak of Dooley's conduct as'being
"inequitable" and "unfair," as against the complainants. But
such epithets are of very uncertain legal significance. Where
courts are dealing, with parties between whom exists a fiduciary
relation, or where, if the parties are on an equal footing, false
representations are made by one party, in circumstances which.
give the other a right to rely upon them, the courts may right-,
fully use their power to promote fair dealing, and to defeat an
abuse of legal remedies. It is not pretended, in the present
case, that Dooley, Pangburn, or their attorney, had any transactions with the complainants, or made any false representations or statements to them. The utmost that can be said is,
that Dooley, being in actual possession of the goods under a
claim of title to them, which claim was legally unfounded,
placed them in the nominal possession of his attorney in a
place known only to himself, and was thus enabled to secure
a levy on them prior in law to that of the complainants. We
do not think that a court of equity in such circumstances should
postpone his lien to theirs.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, in so far as it
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, is reversed, and
the decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the bill of complaint,is aifrmed.
VOL. cLxx=--42

