OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and also to declare on oath and prove to the satisfaction of the
court that for two years next preceding it had been his bona
ftde intention to become a citizen of the United States; and in
all other respects to comply with the laws in regard to naturalization.
The usual proof of naturalization is a copy of the record of
the court admitting the applicant, though, in some instances,
there may -be facts from which, in the absence of the record, a
jury may be allowed to infer that a person, having the requisite
qualifications to become a citizen, had been duly naturalized.
But the finding of facts in this case excludes any presumption
that Contzen had complied with the statute prior to October,
1861.
Judgment affirmed.

LOWRY v. SILVER CITY GOLD AND SILVER MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 104.

Argued and submitted November 14, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1900.

On the facts stated in the statement of the case, held that the court below
was right in deciding that the plaintiffs in error were estopped by virtue
of the lease from the defendant in error under which two of the plaintiffs
in error acquired possession of the premises in dispute from maintaining
this action.

ON January 1, 1889, the Wheeler Lode mining claim, a claim
1500 feet in length by 600 feet in width, was duly located on
mineral lands situated in the Tintic mining district, Juab
County, Utah. The title to the claim pa~sed to the defendant
in error, and its right thereto was kept alive by regular performance of the prescribed annual work. On February 8,1897,
it leased this claim to two of the plaintiffs in error, Lowry and
De Witt, for eighteen months, and those lessees went into possession and continued work on the mine. On June 4,1897, the
owners of a mining claim called the Evening Star, applied for

LOWRY v. SILVER CITY 0. AND S. MINING CO. 197
Statement of the Case.

a patent, and included in their application a portion ot the
Wheeler claim. They published due notice of their application,
and the sixty days given by statute for commencing an adverse
suit passed'without any such suit by the defendant in error, the
owner of the Wheeler mining claim. Thereupon the two lessees, together with the other -plaintiff in error, Smith, attempted
to locate a new claim, called the Little Clarissa, upon the ground
covered by the Wheeler claim. This attempted location was
made two or three days after the expiration of the sixty days'
publication by' the owners of the Evening Star, and while the
lessees were in possession under the lease from the owner of
the Wheeler claim. It appears by the surveys that the premises claimed by the Evening Star included the original discovery
shaft of the Wheeler location, the same being within two and
one fourth feet of the boundary line. It also appears that the
original discovery shaft of the Wheeler claim was sunk only
about nine and one half feet in depth, and was then practically
abandoned; that the vein was traceable and was traced on the
surface for something like 500 feet within the boundaries of
the Wheeler location, and that thereafter and many years before the lease referred to a new shaft had been sunk on that.
vein some two or three hundred feet in depth at a point far
outside of the Evening Star location and entirely within the
limits of the Wheeler location, and that this was the condition
at the time the lease was executed. The contract of the lessees
was that they should sink this shaft a depth of at least six feet
each month during the life of the lease and should not allow or
permit any miner's or other liens to be filed against the claim,
or suffer any act or thing whatever to be done whereby the
title of the defendant in error to the claim should be incumbered. After the location by the plaintiffs in error of the Little Clarissa claim and a repudiation by them of the obligations
of the lease, the defendant in error filed its bill in the District
Court of Utah, in and for the county of Juab, to quiet its title,
restrain the defendants from occupying the premises and for
restitution thereof. This suit was commenced after the publication by the locators, the lessees, and Smith, of an application
for a patent for the Little Clarissa mine, and within the 60

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

days required for commencing an adverse suit. The District
Court.entered a decree quieting the title of the plaintiff, ordering restitution, and enjoining the defendants from entering
.upon the premises, or in any way interfering with plaintiff's
possession and enjoyment of the -premises. This decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State (19 Utah, 331), and
thereupon this writ of error was brought.
-Mr. 0. w: Powers for plaintiffs in error. Mr. Arthur Bronm
and .Mr.H. P. Renderson were on his brief.
MAfr. Charles . Varian and Xri. F. S. Richardsfor defendant
in error, submitted on their brief.
Mi . JUSTICE BREEWER, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

-

This was plainly an attempt on the part of the plaintiffs in
error-two of whom Were lessees of the defendant in errorunder the forms of law to appropriate to themselves property
which for years had been in the unchallenged possession of the
defendant in error, and upon Which it had expended many hundreds of dollars. That such attempt was unsuccessful in the
courts is no more than was to be expected.
The Supreme Court of the State placed its decisions upon two
grounds': First, that although the Evening Star claim included
the original discovery shaft of the Wheeler claim, it did not
thereby destroy that claim in view of the fact that long prior
to the location of the Evening Star the owners of the Wheeler
had located a new shaft and developed the mine in that shaft.
Gwillim v. Donnellan,115 U. S. 45, was held not applicable.
The other ground was estoppel by virtue of the lease under
which two of the plaintiffs in error acquired possession. While
the former ground is the one principally discussed in the opinion, the latter was adverted to in a few words at its close. The
latter is sufficient to dispose of the case in this court. Eustisv.
Bolles, 150 U. 5. 361. See also De.Lamar's.Yevada GoZd .Mining COmpany v. llesbitt, 177 U. S. 523, and cases cited in the
opinion. The writ of error is
Dismissed.

