OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

far as the rights of the claimant under the land grants are concerned, those rights had been lawfully acted upon and decided.
by Congress prior to the passage of the act of 1891. The action
of Congress in the act of 1860, and as thereafter amended in
1869, was a final adjudication which granted eleven square
leagues to each of the two claimants and rejected and refused
to confirm the grant for any larger amount.
The claim in this case is thus brought directly within the
fourth subdivision of section 13, above set forth, and it is perfectly-clear that Congress did not give the Court of Private
Land Claims jurisdiction to determine the rights of the parties
in cases of this description.
Whatever the rights of the claimant may be, if any, to have
its claim decided by a judicial. tribunal, it certainly has no right
to ask that the Court of Private Land Claims shall pass upon
its claim when, by the very act which creates that court, it is
prohibited from exercising jurisdiction in a case like the one before us.
The judgment of the court below was, therefore, right, and
must be
Afflrmed.

BAGGS v. MARTIN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPE ALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No.205.

Submitted October 29,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.

The receiver in this case, having yoluntarily broughtthis case into the Circuit Court, by whose appointment he held his office, cannot, after that
court has passed upon the matter in controversy, ba heard to object to
the power of that court 'to render judgment therein.

Tins was a cause brought to this court on a certificate from
the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. A 'statement of the facts and the questions put will be
found in the opinion of the court.

BAGGS v. MARTIN.
Opinion of the Court

-r.

A. X. Stevenwson for plaintiff in error.

.r. E.H Wilson, Yr.
defendants in error.

. Zeelr and Mr.I. N. Sal

for

MR.JUSTIcE Srais delivered the opinion of the court.
Edward C. Baggs was, on July 1, 1898, duly appointed receiver of the Denver City Railroad Company, a corporation of
the State of Colorado, by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Colorado, in an action brought in said court
by the Cental Trust Company, a corporation of the State of
New York. While Baggs, as such receiver, was managing and
operating said road one Mary E. Martin, while a passenger on
the railroad, received injuries, on account of which she died on
August 7, 1898. Albert G. Martin, Harry D. Martin and Herman H. Martin brought an action in the district court for the
county of Arapahoe, State of Colorado, against Edward C.
Baggs, as receiver of the Denver City Railroad Company, alleging that their mother, Mary E. Martin, had received fatal injuries by the fault and negligence of certain persons in the
employ of said receiver engaged in operating said road, and
claiming damages, in accordance with the laws of the State of
Colorado, against Edward C. Baggs in his capacity as receiver.
Thereafter, on September 19, 1898, and within due time, the
receiver presented his petition and bond to the district court
for the county of Arapahoe, praying for the removal of said
cause from said court to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Colorado, on the alleged ground that the said
action was one arising under the laws of the United States, and
was ancillary to said action and proceeding in said Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Colorado, wherein said
Central Trust Company of New York was complainant and said
Denver City Railroad Company was defendant. This application to remove was granted, and thereafter a trial of said cause
was had in the Circuit Court of the United States, and a verdict
and judgment were recovered against the said Edward C. Baggs,
as receiver of the Denver City Railroad Company, in the sum

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of three thousand dollars. Thereafter, and in due season, the
record in said cause was duly removed, by writ of error, to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,
where it still remains, the cause being as yet undecided. Whereupon the following questions have been certified to us by the
judges of the said Circuit Court of Appeals:
"First. In view of the provisions contained in section 3 of
the judiciary act approved March 3, 1887, 25 Stat. 43G, permitting receivers appointed by any court of the United States
to be sued in respect of any act or transaction of his in carrying on the business connected with such property without the
previous leave of the court in which such receiver is appointed,
was it competent for said Edward C. lBaggs, as receiver of the
Denver City Railroad Company, to remove said cause from
the district court of Arapahoe County, wherein he was sued,
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Colorado?
"Second. Did said Circuit Court for the District of Colorado, by virtue of the aforesaid removal, acquire lawful jurisdiction of said cause, and power to render the aforesaid judgment
therein? "
It may be, as contended on behalf of the plaintiff in error,
that the mere order of the Circuit Court of the United States
appointing a receiver for a corporation created by the law of a
State, at the suit of a citizen of another State, and where the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended on the diverse citizenship of the parties, did not create a Federal question under
section 709 of the Revised Statutes, and that, accordingly, the
removal of this cause from the state to the Federal court, for
the sole reason that the defendant, seeking the removal, had
been so appointed, was not well founded. Bausman v..Dixon,
173 U. S. 113.
But, without entering into that subject, or the question of the
scope and effect, as respects jurisdiction, of the act of March 3,
1887, perinitting receivers appointed by any court of the United
States to be sued without the previous leave of the court in
which he had been appointed, we think that, in the present
case, the receiver, having voluntarily brought the cause into the

BAGGS v. MARTIN.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court by whose appointment he held his office, cannot,
after that court has passed upon the matter in controversy, be
heard to object to the power of that court to render judgment
therein.
We do not mean to be understood to say that mere consent, or
even voluntary action by the parties,.can confer jurisdiction upon
a court which would not have -possessed it without such consent or action. But here the Circuit Court had, independently
of the citizenship of the parties in the damage suit, jurisdiction
over the railroad and its property in the hands of its receiver.
It may be that its jurisdiction was not, by reason of the act of
March 3, 1887, exclusive of that of other courts in controversies
like the present one. But when the receiver, waiving any right
he might have had to have the cause tried in a state court,
brought it before the court whose officer he was, he cannot successfully dispute its jurisdiction. The claim was against him
as receiver, and if successfully asserted, would affect the property of the Denver City Railroad Company, which was in course
of administration by the Circuit Court of the United States for
the benefit of its creditors, among whom were the defendants
in error. As, then, the cause of action arose out of the alleged
misconduct of the receiver, or of his agents, for whom he was
responsible, and as the property to be affected was in the exclasive control of the Circuit Court, that court plainly had jurisdiction to entertain and determine the controversy, whether that
jurisdiction was invoked by the parties seeking redress,.or, as
in this case, by the receiver. .Jfinnesota Co. v. St. PauZ Co.,
2 Wall. 609.
Tie, therefore, answer the second question,put to us by the
Judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the ajjirmative;
and it is, therefore, unnecessary to answer the first question,
as the defendants in error are not raisingit; and it is so
ordered.
voL. crxxlx-14

