OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Other questions are raised in the assignments of error, but
they bear even more remotely upon a Federal right. The decision already made covers them.
The writ of error must therefore be

Disised.

I

re DE BARA, PETITIONER.
ORIGINAL.

No. 15, Original. Submitted November 5,1900.-Decided December 3,1900.

Under section 5480 of the Revised Statutes of the United States the court
below had the power to give a single sentence for several offences, in excess of that which is prescribed for one offence.
In re Henry, 123 U. S. 372, affirmed and followed to this point.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. D. IF. Baker for petitioner.
.&.Solioitor General opposing.
MR.JvsTicE MoKFNxA delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon filing the petition in this case a iule to show cause was
issued to John L. M. Donell, Superintendent of the House of
Correction, at Detroit, Michigan, by whom it is alleged the petitioner is illegally restrained of his liberty.
The petition shows that the petitioner was convicted in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, upon the charge of violating section 5480 of the .Revised
Statutes of the United States, which prohibits the use of the
mails for fraudulent purposes, and that on June 17, 1899, he
was sentenced as follows:
"Came the parties by their attorneys and the defendant in
his own proper person in the custody of the marshal to have
the sentence and the judgment of the court pronounced upon
him, he having heretofore, to wit, on the 5th day of June, 1899,

In re DE BARA.
Opinion of the Court.

one of the days of this term of court, been found guilty by a
jury in due form as charged in the indictment filed herein against
him; and the defendant being asked by the court if he has anything to say why the sentence and-judgment of the court should
not now be pronounced upon him, and showing no good and
sufficient reason why sentence and judgment should not be pronounced, it is therefore considered by the court and as the sentence and the judgment of the court upon the verdict of guilty
so rendered by the jury as aforesaid, that the defendant Edgar
De Bara be confined and imprisoned in the House of Correction
at Detroit, Michigan, for and during the term of three years."
That the sentence was made to run from June 20, 1899, and
since said day the petitioner has been confined in the House of
Correction at Detroit, Michigan. That although there was but
one offence committed by him, there were filed agaifist him
numerous indictments, all of which charged in a different way
the same offence, and all were for violating section 5480.
That the record shows that the petitioner was convicted of
the offence set out in said section, and that he was sentenced to
a greater punishment than prescribed therein; that there was
pronounced against him but one sentence, "as upon his having
been found guilty by a jury in due form, as charged in the indictment filed against him, and that the said several other indictments were mere surplusage, and a restatement of the matter contained in indictment No. 3012, and that no evidence was
given against your petitioner except evidence of the offence
stated in indictment No. 3012," and"that the "sentence was null
and void, and of no effect."
That petitioner could not be imprisoned for a longer period
than eighteen months; and that under the commutation for
good behavior he would be entitled to a deduction of three
months from said sentenbe; and that he has been confined for
a full period of eighteen months, less the deduction of which he
is entitled, and has fully satisfied any sentence which could be
imposed on him, and he is therefore unlawfully restrained of his
liberty.
A copy of the record is attached to the petition.
In his return to the rule the Superintendent of the Detroit

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

House of Correction justified the detention of the petitioner by
the judgment and sentence of the District Court as follows:
"SATuRDAY, June 17, A. D. 1899.
"The District Court of the United States for the Northern
Division of the Northern District of Illinois met at nine o'clock
A. M. pursuant to adjournment.
"Present: The Ron. Christian 0. Kohlsaat, judge of said
court, presiding; the clerk and marshal.

"The United States
VS.
3012, ยง 5480 vio. postal laws.
Edgar De Bara.
"Come the parties by their attorneys, and the defendant in
his own proper person, in custody of the marshal, to have the
sentence and judgment of the court pronounced upon him, he
having heretofore, to wit, on the 5th day of June, A. D. 1899,
one of the days of this term of this court, been found guilty by
a jury in due form of law as charged in the indictment filed
herein against him, and the defendant being asked by the court
if he has anything to say why the sentence and judgment of the
court should not now be pronounced upon him, and showing no
good and sufficient reason why sentence and judgment should
not be pronounced, it is therefore considered by the court, and
as the sentence and judgment of the court upon the verdict of
guilty so rendered herein by the jury as aforesaid, that the
defendant, Edgar De Bara, be confined and imprisoned in the
House of Correction at Detroit, IMichigan, in the State of MA[ichigan, for and during -a period of three years."
The record contains only the indictment in cause No. 3012,
and the return to the rule shows that the judgment and sentence
under which the petition is held is designated by that number.
The indictments in the other case do not appear in the record
nor does the record contain the evidence, but the following does
appear:
"The United States

vs.1

3012.

Edgar De Bara, Fannie De Bara.
4Come the parties by their attorneys, and in open court and

In re DE BARA.
Opinion of the Court.

in the presence of his defendants, and with their consent, agree
that causes numbered 3008, 3009, 3010, 3011, 3012, 3013, 3014,
3015, 3016, and 3017 shall be consolidated and tried with this
cause, and that all of said causes be tried together by the same
jury.
"Thereupon it is ordered by the court that said causes be
consolidated."
It further appears that on the. 1st of June, 1899, under the
same title and number, an order was entered reciting that
on the 15th of May, 1899, pleas of not guilty to the several
indictments were interposed, and that a jury (naming them)
were duly impanelled and sworn "in causes numbered 3007,
3008, 3010, 3011, 3013, 3014, 3015, 3016 and 3017 consolidated,
in all of which said causes the United States is the plaintiff and
Edgar De Bara and Fannie De Bara are the defendants, a true
verdict to render according to the evidence."
It also appears from the record that in cause No. 3012, the jury
returned into the court with a verdict, and upon their oaths did
say :
"We, the jury, find the defendants Edgar De Bara and Fannie
De Bara guilty as charged in the indictments 3009, 3012, 3015,
and all the counts therein; we also find the defendants Edgar
De Bara and Fannie De Bara guilty in counts two and three as
charged in indictments Nos. 3007, 3008, 3010, 3011, 3013, 3014,
3016, 3017.
"Thereupon the defendants, by their attorneys, move the
court for a new trial herein."
On the 17th day of June, 1899, the following order was entered:
"The United States
V8.
3012.
Edgar De Bara, Fannie De Bara.)
"Comes the United States by S. H. Bethea, Esq., district attorney, and declines to prosecute the first count in each indictment in cases numbered 3007, 3008, 3010, 3013, 3014, 3016 and
3017, whereupon it is ordered by the court that a nolle rosequi
be and the same is hereby entered herein, as to said first count
in each of said indictments,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not correct therefore, as contended by counsel for petitioner, that the judgment and sentence of the District Court were
confined to indictment in case "No.3012. The proceedings were
entitled as of that case because of the consolidation, but the
other cases did not lose thereby their identity and consequences.
The judgment and sentence must be construed by the cases
which were tried, and upon which the jury rendered its verdict. The petitioner was found guilty as charged in the indictment in 3012 on all counts; also on all counts in 3009 and 3015,
and on all counts 2 and 3 of the indictments in Nos. 3007, 3008,
3010,'3011, 3013, 3014, 3016 and 3011.
Therefore the only question for our determination is whether
the court had the power under sectiop 5480 to give a single
sentence for several offences in excess of that which is prescribed for one offence. The section provides as follows:
"If any person having devised, or intending to devise, any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or be effected by either opening
or intending to open correspondence or communication with
any other person, whether resident within or outside of the
United States, by means, of the post office establishment of the
United States or by inciting such other person to open communication with the person so devising or intending, shall, in
and for executing such scheme or artifice, or attempting so to
do; place any letter or packet in any post office of the United
States, or take or receive any therefrom, such person, so misusing the post office establishment shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than five hundred dollars, and by imprisonment
for not more than eighteen months, or by both such punishments. The indictment, information or complaint may severally charge offences to the number of three when committed
within the same six calendar months; but the court thereupon
shall give a single sentence, and shall proportion -thepunishment especially to the degree in which the abuse of the post
office establishment enters as an instrument into guch fraudulent scheme and device."
The question raised upon the statute is not an open one in this
court. It is substantially ruled by In re Benry, 123 U. S. 372.
In that case there were two indictments, each charging three

In re DE BARA.

321.

Opinion of the Court.

;ffenees. The petitioner was convicted on both indictments
and senteffced on both. Upon serving out his first sentence he
applied- o be discharged on habeas corpus because, as he alleged,
"the court had no jurisdiction to inflict a punishment for more
than one conviction of offences under this statute committed
within the same six calendar months."
In passing on the contention the court, by the Chief Justice,
said :
"We have carefully considered the argument submitted by
counsel in behalf of the petitioner, but are unable to agree with
him in opinion that there can be but one punishment for all
the offences committed by a person under this statute within
any one period of six calendar months. As was well said by
the District Judge on the trial of the indictment, ' the act forbids, not the general use of the post office of a letter or packet,
or the taking out of a letter or packet from the post office in
furtherance of such a scheme. Each letter so taken out or put
in constitutes a separate and distinct violation of the act.' It
is not, as in the case of I&re Snow, 130 U. S. 274, a continuous
offence, but it consists of a single isolated act, and is repeated
as often as the act is repeated.
"It is indeed provided that three distinct offences, committed
within the same six months, may be joined in the same indictment; but this is no more than allowing the joinder of three
offences for the purposes of a trial. In its general effect this
provision is not materially different from that of section 1024
of the Revised Statutes, which allows the joinder in one indictment of charges against a person 'for two or more acts or
transactions of the same class of crimes or offences,' and the
consolidation of two or more indictments found in such cases.
Under the present statute three separate offences, committed
in the same six months, may be joined, but not more, and when
joined there is to be a single sentence for all. That is the
whole scope and meaning of the provision,.and there is nothing whatever in. it to indicate an intention to make a single
continuous offence, and punishable only as such, out of what,
without it, would have been several distinct offences, each complete in itself."
VOL. CLXXX-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

We need not add much to this language. The contention
of the petitioner would make the punishment depend upon the
manner of pleading, and, may be, upon the discretion of prosecuting officers rather than upon the violation of the law. And
to what end? In mitigation of ultimate punishment? But
that function is confided to the court. To it is confided the
power to adapt the punishment to the degree of crime. It
may sentence the full penalty upon one offence. It may,
though it is not required, to do more upon three offences, and
in a single sentence of one day, or of eighteen months, or three
times eighteen months, it may express its views of the criminality of a defendant, and, to use the language of the statute,
"proportion the punishment especially to the degree in which
the abuse of the post office establishment" enters as an instrument "in the defendant's fraudulent scheme and device."
The 9-ule is discharged.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. TOURVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOU.RL
No 36.

Submitted October 9, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1900.

The Wabash Railroad Company was a consolidated railroad corporation,
separately organized under the laws of Illinois and the laws of Missouri.
It became indebted to Tourville, who was in its employ, for a small sum
for which he sued it before a justice of the peace of St. Louis. The complicated proceedings which followed are fully set forth in the opinion
of this court. The judgment of the trial court being set aside by the
Circuit Court, this court holds that the judgment of the Circuit Court
was undoubtedly final; that it completed the litigation; and that it left
nothing to the lower court but to enter the judgment which it directed.
The holding by the Supreme Court of Illinois that the judgment was foreign to that State, and therefore not subject to garnIshment there, is sustained by the weight of authority.

THE ca$e is stated in the opinion of the court.

