ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 60'5
ELGIN NAT'L WATCH CO. ,'.
Syllabus.

fails in this duty of precaution and care, he is responsible for
any injury which may happen through a defect of machinery
whichwas, or ought to have been, known to him, and was un'known to the employ6 or servant."
Tested by these rules we do not feel justified in disturbing
the judgment approved as it was by the trial judge and the
several judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Admittedly,
the step, the rod, the nut, were suitable and in good condition.
Admittedly, the inspectors at El Paso and Toyah were competent. Admittedly, when the engine started on its trip from
El Paso the step was securely fastened, the plaintiff himself
being a witness thereto. The engineer used it in safety up to
the time of the engine's return to El Paso. The plaintiff was
not there called upon to have anything to do with the engine until after it had been inspected and repaired. He chose, for his
own convenience, to go upon the engine and do his work prior
to such inspection. No one can say from the testimony how
it happened that the step became loose. Under those circumstances it would be trifling with the rights of parties for. a jury
to find that the plaintiff had proved that the injury was caused
by the negligence of the employer.
The judgment is

Afjbwd.

ELGIN NATIONAL WATCH COMPANY v. ILLINOIS
WATCH CASE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 121. Argued December 5, 1900. -Decided

January 7,1901.

The term trade mark means a distinctive mark of authenticity, through
which the products of particular manufacturers or the vendible commodities of particular merchants may be distinguished from those of
others.
As its office is to point out distinctively the origin or ownership of the ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
ticles to which it is affixed, no sign or form of words can be appropriated as a valid trade mark, which from the fact conveyed by its primary
meaning, others may employ with equal truth, and with equal right, for
the same purpose.
Words which are merely descriptive of the place where an article is manufactured cannot be monopolized as a trade mark, and this is true of the
word "Elgin" as in controversy in this case.
Where such a word has acquired a secondary signification in connection
with its use, protection from imposition and fraud will be afforded by
the courts, while at the same time it may not be susceptible of registration as a trade mark under the act of Congress of March 3, 1881.
The parties to this suit being all citizens of the same State and the word in
controversy being a geographical name, which could not be properly registered as a valid trade mark under the statute, the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction.
In view of this conclusion and of the fact that the constitutionality of the
act of Congress was not passed on by the court below, that subject is not
considered.

Tins was a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois by the Elgin National Watch
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State
of Illinois, having its principal place of business at Elgin and its
office in Chicago, in that State, against the Illinois Watch Case
Company, also a corporation of Illinois, with its principal place
of business at Elgin, and certain other defendants, citizens of
Illinois.
The bill alleged:
".That prior to the 11th day of April, A. D. 1868, your orator
was engaged in the business of manufacturing watches at Elgin,
Illinois, which was then a small town containing no other manufactory of watches or watch cases; that your orator had built
up at said town a very large business in the manufacture of
watches and watch movements, and that said watches and watch
movements, so made by your orator, had become known all
over the world, and had been largely sold and used not only
in this but in foreign countries.
That at and before said 11th day of April, A.D.
S.
1868, your orator had adopted the word IElgin' as a trade mark
for its said watches and watch movements; that said trade
mark was marked upon the watches and watch movements

ELGIN NAT'L WATCH CO. v. ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 667
Statement of the Case.

made by your orator, both upon those which entered into commerce in this country and those which were exported to and
sold in foreign countries; that your orator's watches became
known all over the world as Elgin watches, and their origin
and source, as a product of your orator's manufacture, were
distinguished from those of all other Wvatches manufactured in
any part of the world by said distinguishing word or trade
mark, 'Elgin'; that from said 11th day of April, A. D. 1868,
to the present time, your orator, both in the goods manufactured
and sold by it in this country and those exported by it to and
sold in foreign countries, has continued to use said trade mark.
upon its watches and watch movements, and is still using it,
and that said trade mark has always served and still serves to
distinguish your orator's product from that of all other manufacturers.
" .
That at the time of its adoption of said trade mark
no other person, firm or corporation engaged in the manufacture or sale of Watches was using the word 'Elgin' as a trade
mark or as a designation to designate its goods from those of
other manufacturers, and that your orator had the legal right
to appropriate and use the said word as its lawful trade mark
for its watches and watch movements.
...

. That the watches and watch movements made by

your orator have achieved a very great reputation throughout
the world, and that such reputation is of great commercial value
to your orator in its business aforesaid."
It was further averred "that on the 19th day of July,
A. D. 1892 under the act of Congress relating to the registration of trade marks, your orator caused said trade mark to
be duly registered in the' Patent Office of the United States
according to law, as by the certificate of said registration, or
a copy thereof, duly certified by the Commissioner of Patents,
here in court to be produced, will more fully and at large appear."
The bill charged that defendants had infringed the rights
of complainant by engraving or otherwise affixing the word
"Elgin" to the watch cases made and sold by them; that
such watch cases were adapted to receiving watch movements

OOTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

of different construction from those made by complainant;
that inferior watch movements were liable to be and often
were encased in them, and that when so encased the entire
watch, including both movement and case, appeared upon the
market with the word "Elgin" upon it, thereby leading the
public to believe that the watch as an entirety was made by
complainant, and enabling parties wrongfully using complainant's trade mark to profit by the great reputation'of complainant, to pahn off other and inferior goods as goods made by
complainant, to injure the reputation of complainant as a
watchmaker, and to deprive it of a portion of the business and
patronage which it would otherwise receive from the public, to
the irreparable damage of complainant.
The'prayer was for damages and for an injunction to restrain
defendants "from directly or indirectly making or selling any
watch case or watch cases marked with your orator's said trade
mark, and from using your orator's said trade mark in any way
upon watches or watch cases or in the defendants' printed advertisements, circulars, labels, or the boxes or packages in which
their said watch cases are put or exposed for sale."
A demurrer having been overruled, defendants answered denying the legality of the registration of the alleged trade mark,
and any attempt on their part to deceive the public or the doing
of anything they did not have the legal right to'do; and asserting that they had never manufactured or offered for sale watches
or watch movements; that they manufactured at Elgin watch
cases only; that complainant had never manufactured or sold
watch cases with the word "Elgin" on them; that the business of the two companies was separate and distinct, and that
whenever the defendant company had used the word "Elgin"
it had usually, if not invariably, been done in connection with
some -other word, as "Elgin Giant," or "Elgin Commander,"
or "Elgin Tiger," or some other word in combination with the
word "Elgin "; that defendant compgny had never fised the
word "Elgin" alone, or separately, as registered by complainant, upon goods exported to foreign nations or used in foreign
commerce, but only in domestic commerce, and to inform the
public of the place where watch cases of the defendant corn-

ELGIN. NAT'L WATCH CO. v. ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 669
Statement of the Case.

pany were manufactured; that such watches were sold upon a
gaarantee running for a number of years, so that it was necessary to -indicate the name of the location where defendant company Was carrying on its business, that purchasers might be able
to find the company in case it became necessary to callupon it
to make good its guarantees; "and that, owing to the distinct
lines of business in which the complainant and the defendant
company are engaged, no misunderstanding or confusion has
arisen or can arise, as these defendants are informed and believe."
It was further alleged "that the word 'Elgin,' being a geographical name or word indicating the name of a prominent
manufacturing city in which any manufacturer of watches,
watch movements or watch cases is at liberty to locate and
carry on his business, is not appropriable by any single manufacturing person, firm or corporation, but is open as of common.
right to the use of any person, firm or corporation carrying on
business at the city of Elgin."
Replication was filed, proofs taken, and a hearing had. By
leave of court complainant amended its bill, alleging that the
watch cases so manufactured and marked by defendants in violation of complainant's rights were intended by defendants to
be sold in foreign countries, and were in fact exported to and
sold in foreign countries.
The Circuit Court decreed that the use of the word "Elgin,"
whether alone or in connection with other words, was a violation and infringement of complainant's exclusive rights in the
premises, and that an injunction issue restraining the use of the
word alone or in connection with other words or devices, upon.
watches, or watch cases, or packages containing watches or
watch cases, going into commerce with foreign nations or with
the Indian tribes, in such a way as to be liable to cause purchasers or others to mistake said watches or the watch movements encased in said watch cases for watches or watch
movements manufactured by complainant. 89 Fed. Rep. 487.
The case having been carried to the Court of Appeals, that
court reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and.remanded
the cause with instructions to dismiss the bill. 94 Fed. Rep.
667.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.
Mtr. -LysanderHiZZ for appellants.
was on his brief.

-Y. George S. Prindle

.Mr.Thomas A. Banning for appellees.
ning was on his brief.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

.Xr.Ephraim Ban-

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the bill must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The parties to the suit were
all citizens of Illinois, and the court was of opinion that it could
not be maintained under the act of March 3, 1881, c. 138, 21
Stat. 502.
In the Trade Af!ark Cases, 100 U. S.82, this court held that
the act of July 8, 1870, carried forward into sections 4937 to
4947 of the Revised Statutes, was void for want of constitutional authority, inasmuch as it was so framed that its provisions
were applicable to all commerce, and could not be confined to
that which was subject to the control of Congress. The cases
involved certain indictments under the act of August 14, 1876,
"to punish the counterfeiting of trade mark goods and the sale
or dealing in of counterfeit trade mark goods;" and the opinion
treated chiefly of the act of 1870 and the civil remedy which
that act provided, because, as Mr. Justice Miller observed,
"the criminal offences described in the act of 1876 are, by their
express terms, solely referable to frauds,, counterfeits, and unlawful use of trade marks which were registered under the
provisions of the former act. If that act is unconstitutional,
so that the registration under it confers no lawful right, then
the criminal enactment intended to protect that right falls
with it."
In its opinion the court, adhering to the settled rule to decide
no more than is necessary to the case in hand, was careful to
say that the question "whether the trade mark bears such a
relation to commerce in general terms as to bring it within
congressional control, when used or applied to the classes of
commerce which fall within that control, is one which, in the

ELGIN NAT'L WATCH CO. v. ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 671
Opinion of the Court.

present case, we propose to leave undecided." And further:
"In what we have here said we wish to be understood as leaving untouched the whole question of the treaty-making power
over trade marks and of the duty of Congress to pass any laws
necessary to carry treaties into effect."
The act of March 3, 1881, followed. By its first section it
was provided that "owners of trade marks used in commerce
with foreign nations, or with the Indian tribes, provided such
owners shall be domiciled in the United States, or located in
any foreign country or tribe, which by treaty, convention or
law, affords similar privileges to citizens of the United States,
may obtain registration of such trade marks by complying
with" certain specified requirements.
By the second section, the application prescribed by the first
"must, in order to create any right whatever in favor of the
party filing it, be accompanied by a written declaration," "that
such party has at the time a right to the use of the trade mark
sought to be registered, and that no other person, firm or corporation has the right to such use, either in the identical form
or in any such near resemblance thereto as might be calculated
to deceive; that such trade mark is used in commerce with
foreign nations or Indian tribes, as above indicated; . .
The third section provided that "1no alleged trade mark shall
be registered unless the same appear to be lawfully used as such
by the applicant in foreign commerce or commerce with Indian
tribes as above mentioned or is within the provision of a treaty,
convention, or declaration with a foreign power; nor which is
merely the name of the applicant; nor which is identical with
a registered or known trade nmark owned by another and appropriate to the same class !of merchandise, or which so nearly
resembles some other person's lawful trade mark as to be likely
to cause confusion or mistake in the mind of the public, or to
deceive purchasers."
By the fourth section certificates of registration of trade
marks were to be issued, copies of which, and of trade marks
and declarations filed therewith, should be evidence "in any
suit in which such trade marks shall be brought in controversy;"
and by section five it was provided that the certificate of registry

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

should remain in force for thirty years from its date, and might
be renewed for a like period. By the eleventh section nothing
in the act was to be construed "to give cognizance to any court
of the United States in an action or suit between citizens of
the same State, unless the trade mark in controversy is used on
goods intended to be transported to a foreign country or in lawful commercial intercourse with an Indian tribe." The seventh
section was as follows:
"That registration of a trade mark shall be primafacieevidence of ownership. Any person who shall reproduce, counterfeit, copy or colorably imitate any trade mark registered under
this act and affix the same to merchandise of substantially the
same descriptive properties as those described in the registration,
shall be liable to an action on the case for damages, for the
wrongful use of said trade mark, it the suit of the owner thereof ; and the party aggrieved shall also have his remedy according
to the course of equity to enjoin the wrongful use of such trade
mark used in foreign commerce or commerce with Indian tribes,
'as aforesaid, and to recover compensation therefor in any court
having jurisdiction over the person guilty of such wrongful act;
and courts of the United States shall have original and appellate jurisdiction in such cases without regard to the amount in
controversy."
Thus it is seen that under the act registration isprimafaoie
evidence of ownership; that the certificate is evidence in any
suit or action in which the registered trade mark is brought in
controversy; that the act practically enables treaty stipulations
to be carried out, and affords the basis for judicial redress for
infringement in foreign countries, where such redress cannot
ordinarily be had without registration, as well as in the courts
of the United States, when jurisdiction would not otherwise
exist. For it is the assertion of rights derived under the act
which gives cognizance to courts of the United States when the
controversy is between citizens of the same State, though the
benefits of the act cannot be availed of if the alleged trade mark
is not susceptible of exclusive ownership as such, and not, therefore, of registration.
Trade marks are not defined by the act, which assumes their

ELGIN NAT'L WATICH CO. v. ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 613
Opinion of the Court

existence and ownerslip, and provides for a verified declaration
by applicants for registration that they have the exclusive right
to the particular trade mark sought to be registered.
The term has been in use from a very early date, and, generally speaking, means a distinctive mark of authenticity, through
which the products of particular manufacturers or the vendible
commodities of particular merchants may be distinguished from
those of others. It may consist in any symbol or in any form
of words, but as its office is to point out distinctively the origin
or ownership of the articles to which it is affixed, it follows that
no sign or form of words can be appropriated as a valid trade
mark, which from the nature of the fact conveyed by its primary meaning, others may employ with equal truth, and with
equal right, for the same purpose.
And the general rule is thoroughly established that words
that do not in and of themselves indicate anything in the
nature of origin, manufacture or ownership, but are merely descriptive of the place where an article is manufactured or produced, cannot be monopolized as a trade mark. Canal Company v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311; Brown Cemical Company v.
Xkyer, 139 U. S. 540; Columbia Xill Company v. Alcorn, 150
U. S. 460, and cases cited.
The word "Elgin" is and has been for very many years the
name of a well known manufacturing city in Illinois. The factory and business of appellees were located at Elgin, and in
describing their watch cases, as made there, it is not denied that
they told the literal truth so far as that fact was concerned,
and this they were entitled to do according to the general rule.
Obviously to hold that appellant had obtained the exclusive
right to use the name "Elgin" would be to disregard the doctrine characterized by Mr. Justice Strong, in Canal Company
v. Clark, as sound doctrine, "that no one can apply the name
of a district of country to a well known article of commerce,
and obtain thereby such an exclusive right to the application
as to prevent others inhabiting the district or dealing in similar
articles coming from the district, from truthfully using the same
designation."
But it is contended that the name "Elgin" had acquired a
VOL. CLXXIX-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

secondary signification in connection with its use by appellant,
and should not, for that reason, be considered or treated as
merely a geographical name. It is undoubtedly true that where
such a secondary signification has been acquired, its use in that
sense will be protected by restraining the .use of the word by
others in such a way as to amount to a fraud on the public, and
on those to whose employment of it the special meaning has
become attached.
In other words, the manufacturer of particular goods is entitled to the reputation they have acquired, and the public is
entitled to the means of distinguishing between those, and other,
goods; and protection is accorded against unfair dealing, whether
there be a technical trade mark or not. The essence of the
wrong consists in the sale of the goods of one manufacturer or
vendor for those of another.
If a plaintiff has the absolute right to the use of a particular
word or words as a trade mark, then if an infringement is shown,
'the wrongful or fraudulent intent is presumed, and although
allowed to be rebutted in exemption of damages, the further
violation of the right of property will nevertheless be restrained.
But where an alleged trade mark is not in itself a good trade
mark, yet the use of the word has come to denote the particular
manufactdrer or vendor, relief against unfair competition or
perfidious dealing will be awarded by requiring the use of the
word by another to be confined to its primary sense by such
limitations as will prevent misapprehension on the question of
origin. In the latter class of cases such circumstances .must be
made out as will show wrongful intent in fact, or justify that
inference from the inevitable consequences of the act complained
of. Lawrende X-anufacturing Co. v. Tennessee .A anufacturing Co., 138 U. S. 537, 549 ; Coats v. MAferrick Thread Co., 149
U. S. 562; Singer .an. Co. v. June .AYan. Co., 163 U. S. 169.
In Singer Man. Company v. June -Man.Company, the Singer
machines were covered by patents, whereby there was given to
them a distinctive character and form, which caused them to
be known as the Singer machines, as differing from the form
and character of machines made by others. The word "Singer "
was adopted by the Singer Company as designative of their

ELGIN NAT'L WATCH CO. v. ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 675
Opinion of the Court.

-

distincti 7e style of machines rather than as solely indicative of
the origin of manufacture. That word constituted the generic
description of the type and class of machines made by that company, and, on the expiration of the patent, the right to make
the patented article and to use the generic name necessarily
passed to the public. But nevertheless this court held that
those who availed themselves of this public dedication to make
the machines and use the generic designation did so on condition that the name should be so used as not to.deprive others
of their rights or to deceive the public. Mr. Justice White,
delivering the opinion, said:
"It is obvious that if the name dedicated to the public, either
as a consequence of the monopoly or by the voluntary act of
the party, has a twofold significance, one generic and the other
pointing to the origin of manufacture, and the name is availed
of by another without clearly indicating that the machine, upon
which the name is marked, is made by him, then the right to
use the name because of its generic signification would imply
a power to destroy any good will which belonged to the original maker. It would. import, not only this; but also the unrestrained right to deceive and defraud the public by so using the
name as to delude them into believing that the machine made
by one person was made by another."
In Reddaway v. Banham,App. Gas. 1896, p. 199, much relied
on by appellant'ยง counsel, Reddaway was a manufacturer of
belting from camel hair, which belting he had called "camel
hair belting" for many years, so that it had become known in
the trade as belting of his manufacture. Banham, long after,
*made belting from the same material, which he sold and advertised as Arabian belting, biit subsequently he, or a company he
had formed, began to call it "camel hair belting." Reddaway
and Reddaway's company brought an action for injunction,
which was tried before Collins, J., (now Lord Justice Collins),
and a special jury. The jury answered certain questions to the
effect that "camel hair belting" meant belting made by plaintiffs as distinguished fro m belting made by other manufacturers;
that the words did not mean belting of a particular kind with-;
out reference to any particular maker; that the defendants so

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

described their belting as to be likely to mislead purchasers and
to lead them to buy defendants' belting as and for plaintiffs'
belting; and that defendants endeavored to pass off their goods
as and for plaintiffs' goods, so as to be likely to deceive purchasers. On the findings of the jury, Collins, J., entered a
decree for plaintiffs, and granted an injunction restraining defendants "from continuing to use the words 'camel hair' in
such a manner as to deceive purchasers into the belief that they
are purchasing belting of the plaintiffs' manufacture, and from
thereby passing off their belting as and for the belting of the
plaintiffs' manufacture." The case "having gone to the Court
of Appeals, the decree was reversed, and judgment entered for
defendants, (Q. B. Div. 1895, p. 286,) and plaintiffs thereupon
prosecuted an appeal to the House of Lords, which reversed
the Court of Appeals, and reinstated the decision of Collins, J.,
with a slight modification. The case was held to fall within
the principle, as put by the Lord Chancellor, "that nobody has
any right to represent his goods as the goods of somebody else."
Lord Herschel, referring to W~other'yoon v. Cwnrie, L. R. 5
H. L. 508, said:
"The name ' Glenfield' had become associated with the starch
manufactured by the plaintiff, and the defendant, although he
established his manufactory at Glenfield, was restrained from
using that word in connection with his goods in such a way as
to deceive. Where the name of a place precedes the name of
an article sold, it primbacie means that this is its place of production or manufacture. It is descriptive, as it strikes me, in
just the same sense as ' camel hair' is descriptive of the material
of which the plaintiff's belting is made. Lord Westbury pointed
out that the term ' Glenfield' had acquired in the trade a secondary signification different from its primary one, that in connection with the word starch it had come to mean starch which
was the manufacture of the plaintiff."
And Lord Herschel further said that he demurred to the
view"That the defendants in this case were telling the simple
truth when they sold their belting as camel hair belting. I
think the fallacy' lies in overlooking the fact that a word may

ELGIN NAT'L WATCH CO. V. ILLINOIS WATCH CO. 677
Opinion of the Court.

acquire in a trade a secondary signification differing from its
primary one, and that if it is used to persons in the trade who
will understand it, and be known and intended to understand it
in its secondary sense, it will none the less be a falsehood that
in its primary sense it may be true."
These and like cases do not sustain the proposition that words
which in their primary signification give notice of a general fact,
and may be used for that purpose by every one, can lawfully be
withdrawn from common use in that sense; but they illustrate
the adequacy of the protection from imposition and fraud in
respect of a secondary signification afforded by the courts.
In the instance of a lawfully registered -trade mark, the fact
of its use by another creates a cause of action. In the instance
of the use in bad faith of a sign not in itself susceptible of being
a valid trade mark but so employed as to have acquired a secondary meaning, the whole matter lies inais.
It is to be observed, however, that the question we are considering is not whether this record makes out a case of false representation, or perfidious dealing, or unfair competition, but
whether appellant had the exclusive right to use the word "Elgin" as against all the world. Was it a lawfully registered
trade mark? If the absolute right to the word as a trade mark
belonged to appellant, then the Circuit Court had jurisdiction
under the statute to award relief for infringement; but if it were
not a lawfully registered trade mark, then the Circuit Court of
Appeals correctly held that jurisdiction could not be maintained.
And since while the secondary signification attributed to its
use of the word might entitle appellant to relief, the fact that
primarily it simply described the place of manufacture, and that
appellees had the right to use it in that sense, though not the
right to use it, without explanation or qualification, if such use
would be an instrument of fraud, we are of opinion that the
general rule applied, and that this geographical name could not
be employed as a trade mark and its exclusive use vested in
appellant, and that it was not properly entitled to be registered
as such.
In view of this conclusion, and of the fact that the question

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the constitutionality of the act of Congress was not passed
on by the court below, we have refrained from any discussion
of that subject.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was right, and its decree is
Afflrmed.

