OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

merce, without congressional permission. The same rule that
applies to the sugar of Louisiana, the cotton of South Carolina,
the wines of California, the hops of Washington, the tobacco of
aryland and Connecticut, or the products, natural or manufactured, of any State, applies to all commodities in which a
right of traffic exists, recognized by the laws of Congress, the
decisions of courts, and the usages of the. commercial world.
It devolves on Congress to indicate sudh exceptions as in its
judgment a wise discretion may demand under particular circumstances." -Lyng v. JXichigan, 135 U. S.161, 166.
For these reasons I dissent from the opinions and judgment
in this case.
I am. authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE
JUSTIc E PECKHAMi concur in this dissent.

SHnIAs and MR.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 103. Argued November 13,14, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1900.

The separate coach law of Kentucky, being operative only within the State,
and having been construed by the Supreme Court of that State'as applicable only to domestic commerce, is not an infringement upon the exclusive power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.

THIS was a writ of error to review the conviction of the Railway C6mpany for failing to furnish separate coaches for the
transportation of white and colored passengers on the line of
its road, in compliance with a statute of Kentucky enacted
May 24, 1892, c. 40, the first section of which reads as follows:
"ยง 1. Any railroad company or corporation, person or persons, running or otherwise operating railroad cars or coaches
by steam or otherwise, on any railroad line or track within this

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO W'Y CO. v).
KrNTUICKY. 389
Statement of the Case.

State, and all railroad companies, person or persons, doing business in this State whether upon lines of railroad owned in part
or whole, or leased by them; and all railroad companies, person or persons, operating railroad lines that may hereafter be
built under existing charters, or charters that may hereafter be
granted in this State; and all foreign corporations, companies,
person or persons, organized under charters granted, or that
may be hereafter granted, by any other State, who may be now,
or may hereafter be, engaged in running or operating any of
the railroads of this State, either in part or whole, either in their
own name or that of others, are hereby required to furnish
separate coaches or cars for the travel or transportation of the
white and colored passengers on their respective lines of railroad. Each compartment of a coach divided by a good and substantial wooden partition, with a door therein, shall be deemed
a separate coach, within the meaning of this act, and *eachseparate coach or compartment shall bear in some conspicuous
place appropriate words in plain letters indicating the race for
which it is set apart."
The second section requires such companies to make no difference or discrimination in the quality, convenience or accommodations in such coaches; and the fifth provides that conductors
"shall have power, and are hereby required to assign to each
white or colored passenger his or her respective car, or coach,
or compartment, and should any passenger refuse to occupy the
car, coach or compartment to which he or she might be assigned
by the conductor or manager, the latter shall have the right to
refuse to carry such passenger," and may put him off the-train.
The seventh section contains an exception of employ~s of railroads, or persons employed as nurses, or officers in charge of
prisoners.
The indictment followed the language of the statute above
quoted. The defendant demurred upon the ground that the
law was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, in
that it was a regulation of interstate commerce. The demurrer
was overruled, and the case tried before a jury, which found
the defendant guilty, and fixed its fine at five hundred dollars.
The case was carried by appeal to the Court of Appeals, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the conviction affirmed. The court delivered a brief opinion to
the effect that its judgment was concluded by the case of the
Ohio Valley Railwcys' Receiver v. Lander, 47 S. W. Rep. 344.
.Xk. Toh?? T. Shelby for plaintiff in error.
ham was on his brief.

Xri. H. T. Mick-

No appearance for defendant in error.
Mi. JusTIcE BJowN, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case turns exclusively upon the question whether the
separate coach law of Kentucky be an infringement upon the
exclusive power of Congress to regulate- interstate commerce.
The law in broad terms requires all railroad companies operating roads within the State of Kentucky, whether upon lines
owned or leased by them, as well as all foreign companies operating roads within the State, to furnish separate coaches or cars
for the travel or transportation of white and colored passengers
upon their respective lines of railroad, and to post in some conspicuous place upon each coach appropriate words in plain letters
indicating the race for which it is set apart.
Of course, this law is operative only within the State. It
would be satisfied if the defendant, which operates a continuous
line of railway from Newport News, Virginia, to Louisville,
Kentucky, should take on its westward bound trains a separate
coach or coaches for colored people at its first station in Kentucky, and continue the same to Louisville; and upon its eastward bound trains take off such coach at the same station before leaving the State. The real question is whether a proper
construction of the act confines its operation to passengers whose
journeys commence and end within the boundaries of the State,
or whether a reasonable interpretation of the act requires colored
passengers to be assigned to separate coaches when traveling
from or to points in other States.
Similar questions have arisen several times in this court. In
Hall v. .De Cuir, 95 U. S.485, 489, an act of the general as-

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO R'Y CO. v. KENTUCKY. 391
Opinion of the Court.

sembly of Louisiana prohibited common carriers of passengers
within that State from making any rules or regulations discriminating on account of race or color. Plaintiff took passage upon
a steamboat up the river from New Orleans to a landing place
within the State, and, being refused accommodations on account
of her color in the cabin especially set apart for white persons,
brought an action under the provisions of this act. The vessel
was engaged in trade between New Orleans and Vicksburg,
Mississippi, and defendant insisted that the act was void as a
regulation of commerce between these States. The state court
held it to be constitutional. This court held "that while the
act purported only to control the carrier when engaged within
the State, it must necessarily influence his conduct to some extent in the management of his business throughout his entire
voyage. His disposition of passengers taken up and put down
within the State, or taken up within to be carried without, cannot but affect in a greater or less degree those taken up without
and brought within, and sometimes those taken up and put down
without. A passenger in the cabin set apart for the use of
whites without the State must, when the boat comes within,
share the accommodations of that cabin with such colored persons as may come on board afterwards, if the law is enforced."
In Louisvil &ce. Raiway Company v. fissiwsp, 133 U. S.
587, 591, an act of the legislature of Mississippi required almost
in the terms of the Kentucky act that "all railroads carrying passengers in this State . . . shall provide equal, but separate,
accommodations for the white and colored races, by providing
two or more passenger cars for each passenger train, or by dividing the passenger cars by a partition, so as to secure separate
accommodations." The road was indicted for a violation of the
statute in failing to provide separate accommodations for the
two races. It will be observed that it was not a civil action
brought by an individual to recover damages for being compelled to occupy one particular compartment, or for being pievented from riding on the train; but in that case, as in this,
the prosecution was public. As the Supreme Court of Mississippi
had held that the statute applied solely to commerce within the
State, 66 Miss. 662, that construction was accepted as conclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

sive here; and being a matter respecting commerce wholly within the State, and not interfering with commerce between the
States, there was *obviouslyno violation of the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution. Said Mr. Justice Brewer, in delivering the opinion of this court: "So far as the first section
is concerned, (and it is with that alone we have to do,) its provisions are fully complied with when to trains within the State
is attached a separate car for colored passengers. This may
cause an extra expense to the railroad company; but not more
so than state statutes requiring certain accommodations at depots, compelling trains to stop at crossings of other railroads,
and a multitude of other matters confessedly within the power
of the State. No question arises under this section as to the
power of the State to separate in different compartments interstate passengers, or to affect, in any manner, the privileges and
rights of such passengers. All that we can consider is, whether
the State has the power to require that railroad trains within her
limits shall have separate accommodations for the two races.
That affecting only commerce within the State is no invasion
of the powers given to Congress by the commerce clause."
In Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S.537, the petitioner Plessy
had engaged and paid'for a first-class passage on the East Louisiana Railway from New Orleans to Covington in the same State,
took possession of a vacant seat in the coach where white passengers were accommodated, and was ejected therefrom under
the separate coach law of Louisiana, which was practically in
the same terms as the statute of Kentucky under consideration.
Upon being subjected to a criminal charge, he applied for a
writ of prohibition upon the ground of the unconstitutionality
of the act. The Supreme Court of Louisiana held the law to
be constitutional and denied the prohibition. On writ of error
from this court, it was held. that no question of interference
with interstate commerce could possibly arise, since the East
Louisiana Railway was purely a local line, with both its termini
within the State of Louisiana. Indeed, the act was not claimed
to be unconstitutional as an interference with interstate commerce, but its invaidity was urged upon the ground that it
abridged the privileges or immunities of citizens, deprived the

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RWY CO. v. KENTUCKY. 393
Opinion of the Court.-

petitioner of his property without due process of law, and also
denied him the equal protection of the laws. His contention
was overruled, and the statute held to be no violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
As already stated, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky did
not discuss the constitutionality of the act in question, but held
itself concluded by its previous opinion in the Lander.case.
That was an action instituted by Lander and his wife against
the receiver of the Ohio Valley Railway, running from Evansville, Indiana, to Hopkinsville, Kentucky. Plaintiff's wife,
who was joined with him in the suit, purchased a first-class
ticket from Hopkinsville to Mayfield, both within the State of
Kentucky ; took her place in what was called the "ladies' coach"
and was ejected therefrom by the conductor and assigned a
seat in a smoking car, which was alleged to be small, badly
ventilated, unclean, and fitted with greatly inferior accommodations. It was held by the Court of Appeals that the decisions of this court in -Louisville,.lNew Orleans &c.Railway v.
.fi8sissip pi, 133 U. S. 587, and Plessy v..Ferguson, 163 U. S.
537, were conclusive of the constitutionality of the act so far
as plaintiffs were concerned; and that the mere fact that the
railroad extended to Evansville, in the State of Indiana, could
in nowise render the statute in question invalid as to the duty
of the railroad to respect it. It was urged in that case, as it is
in this, that the act undertook to regulate or control as to interstate passengers, and that that portion of the statute was invalid, as being in conflict with the interstate commerce clause
of the Constitution; and, further, that the act was inseparable,
and, therefore, must all be held invalid. In disposing of this
the court observed: "We do not think that such contention is
tenable. It seems to us that such contention is in conflict with
the decision hereinbefore referred to, (in the Mississippi case,)
and also in conflict with the well-settled rules of construction."
In winding up its opinion the court made the following observation: "If it were conceded (which it is not) that the statute
is invalid as to interstate passengers, the proper construction to
be given it would then be that the legislature (lid not so intend
it, but only intended it to apply to transportation within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

State, and, therefore, it should be held valid as to such passengers. It seems to us that a passenger taking passage in this
State, and railroad companies receiving passengers in this State,
are bound to obey the law in respect to this matter so long as
they remain within the jurisdiction of the State."
This ruling effectually disposes of the argument that the act
must be construed to regulate the travel or transportation on
railroads of all white and colored passengers, while they are in
the State, without reference to where their journey commences
and ends, and of the further contention. that the policy would
not have been adopted if the act had been confined to that portion of the travel which commenced And ended within the state
lines. Indeed, it places the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in
line with the Supreme Court of Mississippi in Louisville &c.
Railway Co. v. 3fis&issigpi, 66 Mississippi, 662, which had held
the separate coach law of that State valid.as applied to domestic
commerce. Granting that the last sentence from the opinion
of the Court of Appeals, above cited, would seem to justify the
railroad in placing interstate colored passengers in separate
coaches, we think that this .prosecution does not necessarily
involve that question, 'and that the act must stand, so far as it
is applicable to passengers traveling between two points in the
State.
Indeed, we are by no means satisfied*that the Court of Appeals did not give the correct construction to this statute in
limiting its operation to domestic commerce. It is scarcely
courteous to impute to a legislature the enactment of a law
which it knew to be unconstitutional, and if it were well settled
that a separate coach law was unconstitutional, as applied to
interstate commerce, the law applying on its face to all passengers should be limited to such as the legislature were competent
to deal with. The Court of Appeals has found such to be the
intention of the General Assembly in this case; or at least, that
if such were not its intention, the law may be supported as
applying alone to domestic commerce. In thus holding the act
to be severable, it is laying down a principle of construction
from which there is no appeal.
While we do not deny the force of the railroad's argument

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY CO. n. SNELL.

395

Statement of the Case.

in this connection, we cannot say that the General Assembly
would not have enacted this law if it had supposed it applied
only to domestic commerce; and if we were in doubt on that
point, we should unhesitatingly defer to the opinion of the Court
of Appeals, which, held that it would give it that construction
if the case called for it. In view of the language above quoted
from the Lander case, it would be unbecoming for us to say
that the Court of Appeals would not construe the law as applicable to domestic commerce alone, and if it did the case would
fall directly within the Xihmi8s4p ." case, 133 U. S. 587. We
therefore feel compelled to give it that construction ourselves,
and so construing it there can be no doubt as to its constitutionality. Pl8y v. Ferguon, 163 U. S. 537.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore,

.4ffirrned.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

CINCINNATI STREET RAILWAY COMPANY v. SNELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 110. Argued November 16, 1900.-Decided December 17,1900.

The.judgment of a state court, reversing the judgment of an inferior court,
bn account of its refusal to change the venue of the action, and remanding the case for further proceedings, is not a final judgment to which a
writ of error will lie.

THIs was an action of tort instituted by Snell in the Court
of Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio, against the Street
Railway Company, to recover damages for personal injuries
alleged to have been caused by its negligence.
On November 27, 1896, plaintiff Snell made a motion for a
change of venue, and in support thereof filed his own affidavit
as well as the affidavits of five other persons, in compliance
with the following section of the Revised Statutes of Ohio:

