OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

ABRAHAM~v. CASEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 62. Submitted November 2, 1900.-Decided December 3,1900

The conclusions in this case of the Supreme Court of Louisiana depended
alone upon an interpretation of the local law of the State governing the
sale, the record of title to real estate, and the nature, under the local law,
of the rights of a mortgagee creditor; and, accepting the rule of property
under the law of that State to be as so announced, the proceedings in the
equity cause were not res judicata, and the Us pendens created by that
suit did not prevent the exercise by Maxwell of his right to foreclose his
mortgage, and the title which he acquired in the foreclosure proceedings
was not impaired by the pendency of that suit.

A STATEMENT somewhat in detail of the admitted facts concerning this protracted and involved litigation is essential in
order to simplify and make clear the issues which arise for
decision on this record.
Jean Baptiste Cavailhez, a native of France, took up his residence about 1849 in what is now known as the parish of Vermilion, Louisiana. He married Earnestine Diaz, and they there
lived together as man and wife, where a daughter, Marcelline,
was born. In 1862 Cavailhez purchased a plantation and his
title was recorded, and on the 19th of August, 1869, Cavailhez
sold to Clarke H. Remick the plantation which Cavailhez had
acquired, as aforestated. The consideration was $15,000, $7000
of which was evidenced by a note of the purchaser, Remick, for
that amount, payable on demand to bearer, and bearing 8 per
cent interest from a stated date. The remainder of the price,
$8000, was evidenced by four notes for $2000 each, maturing at
one, two, three and four years from date, bearing 8 per cent
interest from their date until paid. The payment of the five
notes was secured by mortgage upon the property.
On the day the foregoing act of sale was passed, (the 19th of
August, 1869,) in view of a marriage contemplated to take place
between Clarke H. IRemick and Marcelline Cavailhez, a marriage

ABRAHAM

v. CASEY.

Statement of the Case.

contract was entered into between them,-determining, as allowed
by the laws of Louisiana, the rules which should govern the
property relations of the prospective spouses during the existence of the proposed marriage. Jean B. Oavailhez and his wife,
Earnestine Diaz, became parties to the contract, and gave to
their daughter Marcelline, as her separate property, the note
for $7000, which had been furnished by Remick, who became
responsible for the amount thereof to his intended wife as her
paraphernal property. Both the act of sale to Remick from
Cavailhez and the-marriage contract were duly recorded. Earnestine Diaz, the reputed wife of Cavailhez, died some time
before 1882. Cavailhez died in 1882, and Remick, the son-in-law,
died shortly afterwards in the same year. Remick left sarviving his widow, Mrarcelline, and four minor children. His
succession was duly opened in the probate court having jurisdiction, in May, 1882. His widow, Marcelline, qualified as tutrix
of the children, and after due proceedings the plalitation which
Remick had bought of Oavailhez was, at auction, sold by decree
of the probate court, and was bought by the widow. The proceeds arising from the probate sale were accounted for in the
probate court. The title by which Mrs. Remick thus acquired
the plantation was also duly recorded.
On the 22d day of August, 1883, Mrs. Remick, having become indebted to A. G. Maxwell, mortgaged the plantation
which had been acquired by her as above stated to secure the
Maxwell debt, which was evidenced by two notes, amounting
in the aggregate to $3-183.50, which notes were des'cribed in the
act of mortgage w.hich was recorded.
' On the 5th of March, 1884, Jeanne Caroline Cave, alleging
herself to be a citizen of France, filed her bill of complaint in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Louisiana, in which she in substance averred that she was the
lawful wife of Jean B. Oavailhez, to whom she had been married
in France in 1833; thatCavailhez had deserted -her,had come
to the State of Louisiana, and there unlawfully married and
lived with Earnestine Diaz as his wife; that by the marriage
relation which existed between complainant and Cavailhez it
resulted that all the propcrty acquired by him, during his resi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

denee in Louisiana was community property, of which she was
the one-half owner. It was further alleged that at the time
Cavailhez deserted her in France he had in his possession separate funds which he had received from her, and that she was
entitled to be secured for the repayment of such funds by a legal mortgage upon the undivided portion of the community
property belonging to the husband. The death of Cavailhez
and of Earnestine Diaz, his reputed wife, was stated. The sale
of the plantation to Remick, the marriage contract, the death
of Remick and the purchase of the plantation by Mrs. Remick
at probate sale, were all alleged, and the averment was made
that both IRemick and his surviving wife were fully cognizant
that the complainant was the lawful wife of Cavailhez, and that
all the parties, Cavailhez, Earnestine Diaz, iRemick and the
daughter Marcelline, had conspired for the purpose of concocting the sale to Remick and the marriage contract as an efficacious means of depriving complainant of her share in the community as the lawful wife of Cavail.hez. The sole defendant
to the bill was Marcelline Cavailhez, the widow of Remick, not
only individually, but also as tutrix of her minor children, and
as such administering the estate of her deceased husband. The
prayer of the bill was "that said acts of sale and marriage contract

.

.

.

be decreed null and void; that your oratrix be

recognized as the widow of said Baptiste Cavailhez and his lawful wife up to the date of his death; that the marriage.between
said Baptiste Cavailhez and Earnestine Diaz, both now deceased,
be decreed absolutely null; that the aforesaid

.

.

planta-

tion be decreed to be still the property of the estate of Baptiste
Cavailhez; that your oratrix be recognized as the owner of one
undivided half of said

.

.

.

plantation; that she be recog-

nized as a mortgage creditor of said Baptiste Cavailhez in the
sum of $5310, with interest from judicial demand, on the undivided half thereof belonging to said Baptiste Cavailhez."
Mrs. Marcelline Remick answered, both in her capacity as
tutrix and individually. She averred the validity of the marriage of her father and mother; charged that even if the previous marriage between the complainant and Cavailhez had taken
place as alleged in the bill, the good faith of her mother, Earn-

ABRAHAM v. CASEY.
Statement of the Case.

estine Diaz, rendered the marriage lawful as to her andherissue.
The alleged fraud in the sale of the plantation and the marriage
contract was denied. It was moreover averred that her husband Remick, during his lifetime, had expended a considerable
amount of money in improving the plantation, and that if the
complainant was entitled to the relief which she sought she was
in equity bound to pay the value of such improvements.
Whilst this suit was pending in the Circuit Court of the United
States the notes held by Maxwell, and which were secured by
mortgage as already stated, became due. Maxwell thereupon
commenced on May 25,1885, in the state court having jurisdiction, foreclosure proceedings according to the forms provided
by the laws of Louisiana, Mrs. Marcelline Remick, individually
and as tutrix, being made the defendant. Under a decree of
sale'on the 8th of July, 1885, the plantation was sold, and was
bought conjointly by Laurent Laccassagne and Maxwell. The
formal deed of the sheriff to them was regularly executed and
recorded. On the 22d day of October, 1885, Maxwell conveyed
to Laccassagne his undivided half of the property thus purchased.
Thereafter, on the 11th of January, 1886, the equity cause which
was pending at the time of the sale just mentioned in the Circuit Court of the United States, was decided in favor of the
complainant, the decree substantially awarding all the prayers
of the bill. It declared complainant to be the lawful wife of
Cavailhez, and that the sale made by him to Remick was void;
that the marriage contract between Remick and Marcelline
Cavailhez was likewise void, and therefore that one half of the
property belonging to Cavailhez at the time of his death was
owned by the complainant as his widow in community, and that
the other half was liable to pay the amount which the complainant had asserted in her bill to be. the sum of her separate
property received by her husband. The decree, however, recognized in part the right of the defendant to recover for the
value of the improvements which had'been put by Remick upon
the plantation. A writ of possession was issued to enforce this
decree, it being immaterial for the purposes of the case to ascertain what was done in execution of the writ. The complainant
in the equity suit, Jeanne C. Cav6, after the decree in her favor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

died in 1886, leaving a will, in which she instituted Francois
Ohapuis, a citizen of Switzerland, her universal residuary legatee, and appointed him her executor. Her estate was opened,
and in the probate proceedings Ohapuis was appointed as executor, and was recognized as universal legatee.
On April the 15th, 1886, Laurent Laccassagne,1 averring himself to be a citizen of France, filed his bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Louisiana
against Francois Chapuis individully, and as universal legatee
of Jeanne C. Cav6, and as her executor. The bill alleged the
ownership of the complainant of the plantation which had been
bought in the Maxwell foreclosure. It averred the decree in
the equity cause in favor of Mrs. Jeanne C. Cav6, the fact of
her death, and that Ohapuis was her executor, and had succeeded
to her rights as her universal legatee; it alleged a disturbance
of the possession of the complainant by a writ of possession
issued to enforce the decree. He, moreover, averred that the
court was without jurisdiction to render the decree, because
Mrs. Jeanne C. Cav6, the complainant, had falsely represented
herself to be a citizen of France, when in fact she was a citizen
of the State of Louisiana; it charged that the decree was inoperative as to Laccassagne, because his rights were not involved
in the controversy. The prayer was that the decree be vacated;
that Ohapuis be perpetually enjoined from enforcing it. Ohapuis
demurred to the bill, first, for want of jurisdiction, because both
himself and the complainant were aliens, and, second, because
of a want of equity. A restraining order issued which, after
hearing, was set aside, and a final decree was ultimately entered,"
maintaining the demurrers and dismissing the bill. From this
decree Laccassagne appealed to this court.
Pending the appeal just referred to, Chapuis, having become
indebted to the commercial firm of It. Abraham & Son, mortgaged the undivided half of the plantation, which had been acquired by him as above stated. He also, in the same act of
1 In Lacassagnev. Chapuis, 144 UT. S. 119, as also in the records sent up
with this case from the court below, Lacassagne is spelled with one "";
but in the opinion in this case it is changed as shown.

ABRAHAM v. CASEY.
Statement of the Case.

mortgage, transferred to Abraham & Son, as security for the
debt due that firm, the claim against the other undivided half of

the plantation, which had been allowed Mrs. Jeanne C.Cave, the
complainant in the equity cause. He moreover thereafter caused
probate proceedings to be had as to the estate of Jean Baptiste'
Cavailhez, provoked a sale under the order of the probate court
to pay the debts of the estate, and at such sale bought the
undivided half of the plantation, which it was assumed belonged to Cavailhez, in accordance with the decree in the equity
cause.
In March, 1892, the appeal pending in this court in the case
of Lacassagnev. Choapuis, was here decided. The decree of the
lower court which dismissed the bill absolutely was "so modified
as to declare-that it is without prejudice to an action at law,
and, as so modified, it is affirmed with costs."
The debt due to Abraham & Son, which Chapuis had secured
by the mortgage and transfer, as above stated, matured, and
that firm c6mmenced in February, 1893, proceedings in the
state court having jurisdiction, to foreclose the mortgage.
Thereupon Laurent Laccassagne, in May, 1893, filed his petition
in the Seventeenth Judicial District Court in and for Vermilion
Parish, Louisiana, against Ohapuis and Abraham & Son. He
alleged his ownership of the property in virtue of the Maxwell
foreclosure and his purchase from Mlaxwell; he charged that
the decree in the original Cav6 suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States was res inter alios acta as to him; that it was
void because of a want of jurisdiction growing out of the fact
that both parties to the cause were citizens and residents in the
State of Louisiana; that the mortgage of Abraham & Son was
worth nothing because of the want of title in Chapuis, and
prayed that Abraham & Son be perpetually enjoined from enforcing their mortgage against the plantation, and that they
with Chapuis or his successors in right be forever restrained
from disputing the ownership of the petitioner. Both Abraham
& Son and Chapuis excepted on the ground of res adjudicata
arising from the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States.
rendered in the suit of Mrs. Cav6, and by a further exception of
estoppel alleged also to have arisen from the decrees in said

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

cause, based on the ground that the foreclosure proceedings of
Maxwell had been commenced whilst the original equity cause
suit was pending. The trial court sustained both exceptions,
refused the injunction, and dismissed the petition of Laccassagne.
An appeal was taken by Laccassagne to the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana. In that court the judgment below was
reversed, and the case was remanded to the trial court with directions to hear the cause on its merits.
Laccassagne thereupon amended his pleadings, the parties
defendant answered, various substitutions of persons took place,
caused by the death of necessary parties; interventions were
filed, and other proceedings were had, which were confusing
and conflicting, and need not be referred to, except to say that
the decree of this court in Lacassagne v. Cltapuis was pleaded as
an additional ground for the claim of resa6judicataand estoppel.
Suffice it to say that, when the issues were finally made up, the
cause was decided by the trial court against Laccassagne. He
again prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana, and the judgment of the trial court was reversed.
The court finally disposed of the cause by decreeing the validity
of the Maxwell foreclosure sale and the purchase thereunder,
and ordered an injunction restraining Chapuis or his successors
and representatives, including Abrahams & Co., from interfering with Laccassagne as the owner of the property. To such decree this writ of error is prosecuted.
.I '. William A. 3faury, .X,.Albert VFoorhies and .M. If. 0.
Hart for plaintiffs in error.
. r. I. S. Benedict for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The Federal questions raised by the assignment of errors are
that the court below refused to give due faith and credit to the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the West-

ABRAHAM v CASEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ern District of Louisiana and to the decree of this court in the
case of Lacas8agne v. Chapuis, 144 U. S. 119.
To determine whether these contentions are well founded,
the exact ground upon which the court below predicated its
conclusion must be ascertained. The court decided that the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Louisiana was not re8 adjudicataagainst Laccassagne, because he was not a party to that cause, and as to him,
therefore, it was res inter alios acta. It further held that the
Z s oendens arising from that cause did not estop Laccassagne,
since the title which he held originated prior to the inception
of the suit and was wholly independent of the issues which it
involved.
These general propositions which the court announced were
deduced from the following conclusions, viz: 1. Under the Louisiana law Jean B. Cavailhez, as head and master of the community existing between husband and wife, had the undoubted
right to dispose of the community property without the consent of his wife, and therefore the deed made by him to iRemick
was binding upon the community irrespective of whether Mrs.
Cave, the plaintiff in the equity cause, was or was not his lawful wife. 2. That as to the charge of fraud made conjointly
against Cavailhez, his reputed wife Earnestine Diaz, his daughter'
Marcelline, and the purchaser Remick, such alleged fraud was
wholly inefficacious even if established as to them, to affect
Maxwell, who had acquired his mortgage whilst the property
stood on the public records in the name of iRemick by a conveyance from Cavailhez, who had the power to make the title.
3. That the right acquired by Maxwell under his mortgage was,
by the Louisiana law, a quasi alienation of the property in his
favor, taking its origin, it is true, from the date of the mortgage given by Mrs. Remick, but relating back to the.recorded
title from Cavailhez, which was in every respect, as to Maxwell,
unaffected by the issues in the equity suit. 4. That the right
thus acquired by Maxwell was an independent one, springing
from the undoubted power of Cavailhez to sell and from the
state of the public records, on the faith of which Maxwell had
the right to rely when he accepted his mortgage. 5. That the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

Opinion of the Court.

laws of Louisiana forbidding a transfer of propertypendente
lite did not operate to prevent Maxwell from foreclosing his
mortgage pending the equity suit, because, although the foreclosure proceedings were filed after such cause was commenced,
the right in virtue of which they were initiated arose long anterior to the beginning of the equity suit, and was paramount to
and independent of all the controversies which were therein
presented for debision.
These conclusions of the state court depended alone upon an
interpretation of the local law of the State, governing the sale,
the record of title to real estate, and the nature under the local
law of the rights of a mortgagee creditor. 48 La. Ann. 1160;
51 La. Ann. 840. It is the duty of this court to follow the rule
announced on such subjects by the highest court of a State.
Clarke v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 186-190, and authorities there cited.
Accepting the rule of property under the Louisiana law to be
as announced by the Supreme Court of that State, it is manifest
that the proceedings in the equity cause were not res atjudicata,
and that the lispendens created by that suit did not prevent
the exercise by Maxwell of his right to foreclose his mortgage,
and therefore the title which he acquired in the foreclosure proceedings was not impaired by the pendency of the suit. But it
is argued although this be undoubted, it is not applicable because of the decree of this court inthe case of Lacassagne v.
hapuio. In that cause, however, the decree below which dismissed the bill was so modified as to cause it to be "without
prejudice to an action at law." And the court below has expressly decided that the proceeding taken by Laccassagne in
the state court, and which is now under review, was the proper
method by which he could, according to the Louisiana law, test
his legal rights asserted to arise from the Maxwell foreclosure
proceedings, and the purchase made thereunder. It is, however,
argued that in the opinion in .Lacassagnev. Chavuis this court
upheld a construction of the Louisiana law which is in conflict
with that law as construed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana
in its opinions in this case, and therefore, it is asserted, this
court should apply its previous conclusions as to the law of
Louisiana instead of now conforming to the view of the Louisi-

ABRAHAM v. CASEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ana law subsequently laid down by the Supreme Cotirt of the
State. This court, it is said, by virtue of the appeal in the -Lacassagne case, was first vested with jurisdiction to consider the
Louisiana statute as to li8 pendens, and therefore, at Ileast, as to
the parties to this record, should hold the Louisiana law to be in
accord with its previous decision, although by doing so the interpretation of the state law by the Supreme Court of the State
be wholly disregarded. ]But we need not pause to point out the
unsoundness of this argument as applied to the question now
here, since the premise which the proposition assumes is without foundation. The case of Lacassagne v. Chapuis came to
this court on two demurrers, the one predicated on a want of
jurisdiction because both parties were aliens, and the other on
an asserted want of equity in the bill. The jurisdictional question as to alienage was disposed of on the ground that the bill
was ancillary to the original suit. Whether the other matters
alleged were within the cognizance of a court of equity was fully
considered, and it was held that the claim of title in Laccassagne
furnished no ground for equity jurisdiction. The court observed: " As the plaintiff was evicted and the plantation was
put into the possession of the widow Cave,. a court of equity cannot give the plaintiff any relief until he has establishedhis title
by an action at law." True it is that subsequently, in considering whether the mortgage right of Laccassagne created a cause
cognizable in equity, the opinion intimated views of the Louisiana law not in accord with the law of that State, as announced
by the Supreme Court of Louisiana as hitherto stated. lBut the
passages referred to were merely reasoning conducive to the
demonstration that the rights asserted, in the bill, were cognizable at law only, and therefore not the subject of equitable jurisdiction. That the court did not intend to and did not decide
what were the legal rights of Laccassagne is at once demonstrated.by the fact that the decree below, which dismissed the
bill, was amended so as to cause it to be without prejudice to
an action at law, and as thus modified was affirmed. To treat
the passages in the opinion, which are relied on as having the
conclusive import now in argument attributed to them, would
of necessity give rise to the following deduction: The opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

on the one hand dismissed the question of legal title from consideration because it was not within the province of a court of
equity to decide who held the legal title, nevertheless the question of such title was finally disposed of in the cause.
But the premise contended for pushes to a more flagrant contradiction, since it cannot be accepted without admitting that,
although the decree was "without prejudice to an action at
law," the right to such action was in substance foreclosed.
Afflrmed.

BALDWIN v. MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 113. Argued November 16,190.-Decided December 3, 1900.

The controversy between the State of Maryland and the estate of the ward
having been finally settled in favor of the State, and the only Federal
question presented in this case having been determined in favor of the
State, this court declines to consider the purely local question whether a
judgment binding the estate binds also the sureties on the guardian's
bond.

THE facts are these: Prior to 1880 certain residents of Mary-

land died, leaving property to Columbus C. Baldwin, a minor.
After the settlement of the estates of the decedents a guardian
of the estate of said minor was appointed by the Orphans' Court
of Washington County, Maryland. In consequence of the death
of the. guardian succeeding guardians were appointed, and in
August, 1891, William Woodward Baldwin was duly appointed
a guardian of the estate of such minor, and gave bond to perform his duty according to law. The present plaintiffs in error
were sureties on that bond. During the years of the guardianship the Register of Wills of Washington County made annual
returns to the county commissioners of the property of estates
unsettled, and among those that of the estate of this minor, and
taxes were levied thereon in accordance with law, and were

