OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

state courts rendered after the rights of parties have accrued
under the previous decisions of those courts of a contrary oharacter.
It results that the Circuit Court did not err in overruling the
point raised under the demurrer at the hearing below, to the
effect that the state enactment was invalid under the constitution of the State.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with directions for further proceedings consistent with law and this

opinion.
Revermed.

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW NATION AND CHICK, ASAW NATION.
BANDS OF INDIANS
v. CHOCTAW NATION, CHICKASAW NATION AND
UNITED STATES.

WICHITA AND

-AFFILIATED

CHOCTAW NATION AND CHICKASAW NATION v.
UNITED STATES AND WICHITA AND AFFILIATED
BANDS OF INDIANS.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF OA IS.
-os. 88, 89, 90. Argued March 7, 8, 9, 1900.-Decided December 10, 1900.
On the 4th day of Sune, 1891, the United States and the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians entered into an agreement whereby the Indians
ceded to the United States a tract of land which is described in the opinion of the court in this case, and the United States agreed in consideration thereof that out of the territory so ceded there should be allotted
to each member of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians in the Indian Territory, native and adopted, one hundred and sixty acres of land
in the manner and form described, in the agreement. This agreement
was ratified by the Indian Appropriations Act of March 2, 1895, which
further conferred jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims, to hear and determine the claim of the Choctaws and the Chickasaws to a right, title

UNITED STATES

i.

CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

495

Counsel for Parties.
and interest in the lands so ceded, and to render judgment thereon, with
a right of appeal to this court. Pursuant to that act this suit was
brought. The Court of Claims, after reciting that the lands in dispute
were acquired by the United States "in trust for the settlement of Indians thereon, and in trust and for the benefit of said claimant Indians
when the aforesaid trust shall cease;" that "the Wichita and Affiliated
Bands of Indians were by the United States located within the boundaries of the lands hereinbefore described;" that they "now number
not more than one thousand. and sixty persops;" and that the location
of the Wichitas and Affiliated Bands within said boundaries was "for the
purpose of affording them permanent settlement therein," adjudged that
the lands in dispute had been acquired and were held by the United States
in trust for the purpose of settling Indians thereon, and that whenever
that purpose was abandoned as to the whole or any part thereof then all
the lands not so devoted to Indian settlement should be held in trust by
the United States for the Choctaw and Chidkasaw Indians exclusively.
It was also adjudged that the members of the Wichita and Affiliated
Bands, not exceeding one thousand and sixty, were equitably entitled to
one hundred and sixty acres of land each out of the lands in dispute and
that the same should be set apart to them by the United States, due regard being had to any improvements made thereon by them respectively
for their permanent settlement. It was furtlier adjudged that the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations were in law and equity entitled to and were
the owners of such of the lands ceded to the United States by the Wichita
and Affiliated Bands as remained, after satisfying the'provisions for the
Wichitas and Affiliated Bands, and that in the event of'the sale thereof
by the United States, the Indian plaintiffs should be entitled to and receive the proceeds of such sale. This judgment being brought here on
appeal, this court, in its opinion, carefully reviewed all the legislation,
and all the Indian treaties on the subject, and, as a result, Held, that for
the reasons given the decree must be reversed with directions to dismiss
the petition of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, and to make a decree in behalf of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians fixing the
amount of compensation to be made to them on account of such lands in
the Wichita Reservation as are not needed in order to meet the requirements of the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 188, and for such further
proceedings as may be consistent with law and with this opinion.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George T. Barnes and -Mr. eremniak X. Wilson for the
Ohoctaw Nation.
-Y. Philip Walker and -- r . Andrew A. Lvswomb for the
Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians. -Yrt. JoiaA 2f. Vale
and .A. Williarm a7. Shelley were on their brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

-Yr. Attorn/eyGeneral and .&. Charles C. Binney for the
United States.
XMr. HalbertE. Paine for the Chickasaw Nation. .Xr.Robert L. Owen filed a brief on behalf of the Choctaw Nation.
MR. JUsTicE.HA.RLA.

delivered the opinion of the court.

On"the 4th day of June, 1891, an agreement was entered into
between commissioners on behalf of the United States and the
Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians, in the Indian Territory, whereby those Indians did "cede, convey, transfer, relinquisl, forever and absolutely, without any reservation whatever," to the United States "all their claim, title and interest
of every kind and character" to the land embraced in the following -boundary: "1Commencing at a point in the middle of
the main channel of the Washita [Wichita] River where the
98th meridian of west longitude cross*es the same, thence up the
middle of the main channel of said river t6 the line of 98' 40'
west longitude, thence on said line of 98* 40' due north to the
middle of the channel of the main Canadian River, thence down
the middle of the channel of said main Canadian River to where
it crosses the 98th meridian, thence due south to the place of
beginning." 28 Stat. 876, 895, c. 188.
In consideration of that cession, it was agreed on behalf of
the United States that out of the territory ceded there should
be allotted to each member of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands
of Indians in the Indian Territory, native and adopted, one hundred and sixty acres of land in the manner and form described
in the agreement. It was provided that upon the allotments
being made the titles should be held in trust for the allottees
for a period of twenty-five years, in the manner and to the extent provided for in the act of Congress of February 8, 1887,
24 Stat. 388, 389, c. 119; and at the expiration of that period
the titles should be conveyed in fee-simple to the allottees, or
their heirs, free from all incumbrances. 28 Stat. 876,.895, 896,
c. 188.
This agreement recited that in addition to. the allotments pro-

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

497

Opinion of the Court.

vided for, and tle other benefits to be received, the Wichita and
Affiliated Bands of Indians claimed and insisted "that further
compensation, in money, should be made to them by the United
States, for their possessory right; in and to the lands above
described in excess of so much thereof as may be required for
their said allotments." And it was stipulated in the agreement
that "the question as to what sum of money, if any, shall be
paid to said Indians for- such surplus lands shall be submitted
to the Congress of the United States, the decision of Congress
thereqn to be final and binding upon said Indians; provided,
if any sum of money shall be allowed by Congress for surplus
lands it shall be subject to a reduction for each allotment of
land that may be taken in excess of one thousand and sixty at
that price per acre, if any, that may be allowed by Congress."
Art. 5.
It was further stipulated in the agreement that ' " there shall
be reserved to said Indians the right to prefer against the
United States any and every claim that they may believe they
have the right to prefer, save and except any claim to the tract
of country described in the first article of. this agreement."
28 Stat. 876, 896, c. 188.
This agreement of 1891 was ratified by the act of Congress
known as the Indian Appropriation Act of March 2, 1895.
28 Stat. 876, 894, 897, c. 188.
By that act it was among other things provided:
"The compensation to be allowed in full for all Indian claims
to these lands which may be sustained by said court in the scrip
hereinafter provided for shall not exceed one dollar and twentyfive cents per acre for so much of said land as will not be required for allotment to the Indians as provided in the foregoing
agreement, subject to such reduction as may be found necessary
under Article 5 of said agreement: Provided,That no part of
said sum shall be paid except as hereinafter provided."
"That whenever any of the lands acquired by this agreement
shall, by operation of law or proclamation of the President of
the United States, be open to settlement, they shall be disposed
of under the general provisions of the homestead and town-site
laws of the United States: Provided, That in addition to the
VoL. OLXXI-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

land-office fees prescribed by statute for such entries the entryman shall pay one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre for the
land entered at the time of submitting his final proof : . . .
-Provided,That said lands shall be opened to settlement within
one year after said allotments are made to the Indians.
"That sections 16 and 36, 13 and 33, of the lands hereby
acquired, in each township, shall not be subject to entry, but
shall be reserved, sections 16 and 36 for the use of the common
schools, and sections 13 and 33 for university, agricultural college, normal schools and public buildings of the Territory and
future State of. Oklahoma; and in case either of said sections
or parts thereof is lost to said Territory by reason of allotment
under this act or otherwise the Governor thereof is hereby authorized to locate other lands not occupied in quantity equal to
the loss: Provided,That the United States shall pay the Indians
for said reserved sections the same price as is paid for the lands
not reserved.
"That as fast as the lands opened for settlement under this
act are sold, the money received from such sales shall be deposited in the Treasury subject to the judgment of the court in
the suit herein provided -for,less such amount, not to exceed
fifteen thousand dollars, as the Secretary of the Interior may
find due Luther I. Pike, deceased, late delegate of said Indians,
to be retained in the Treasury to the credit and subject to the
drafts of the legal representative of said Luther 1-. Pike: Provided, That no part of said money shall be pdid to said Indians
until the question of title to the same is fully settled.
¢'
That as the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations claim to have
some right, title and interest in,and to the lands ceded by the
foregoing agreement [the agreement above referred to], which
claim is controverted by the United States, jurisdiction be and
is hereby conferred upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine the said claim of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, and to
render judgment thereon, it being the intention of this act to
allow said Court of Qlaims jurisdiction, so that the rights, legal
and equitable, of the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations and the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians
in the premises, shall be fully considered and determined, and

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

499

Opinion of the Court.

to try and determine all questions that may arise on behalf of
either party in the hearing of said claim; and the Attorney
General is hereby directed to appear in behalf of the Government of the United States, and either of the parties to said
action shall have the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of
. . . Andprovidedfurther,That noth-

the United States:

ing in this act shall be accepted or construed as a confession
that the United States admit that the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations have any claim to or interest in said lands or any part
thereof. That said action shall be presented by a single petition making the United States and the Wichita and Affiliated
Bands of Indians parties defendant, and shall set forth all the
facts on which the said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations claim
title to said land.

.

.

.

Andp rovided, That it shall be the

duty of the Attorney General of the United States, within ten
days after the filing of such petition, to give notice to said
Wichita and Affiliated Bands through their agents, delegates,
attorneys, or other representatives of said bands, that said
bands are made defendants in said suit, of the purpose of said
suit, that they are required to make answer to said petition,
and that Congress has, in accordance with article 5 of said
agreement, adopted this method of determining their compensa-

tion),if any."
It was also provided that the Court of Claims "shall receive
and consider as evidence in the suit everything which shall be
deemed by said court necessary to aid it in determining the
questions presented, and tending to shed light on the claim,
rights and equities of the parties litigant, and issue rules on any
Department of the Government therefor if necessary." 28 Stat.
876, 897, 898, c. 188.
Pursuant to the above act the present suit was brought in
the Court of Claims by the Ch-octaw and Chickasaw Indians
against the United States and the Wichita and Affiliated Bands
of Indians.
A diagram which was incorporated into the opinion of the
Court of Claims is here reproduced to show the land ceded by
the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians. It is sufficiently
accurate for the purposes of the present discussion.

500

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES V. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

501

Opinion of the Court.

Tract 5, marked "Wichitas," is the particular land now in
dispute, containing, it is stated, 743,257.19 acres; and, with
tract 4, marked " C heyennes and Arrappahoes," tract 6, marked"Kiowvas, Comanches and Apaches," and tract 7, marked
"Greer Co.," constituted what has been known as the "Leased
District," containing, it is supposed, 7,713,239 acres. That District, it will be observed from the diagram, did not extend west
of the 100th degree.of west longitude.
It may be here remarked that according. to the census report
for 1890 the Choctaws then numbered between 14,000 and
15,000 people, of whom about 10,000 were Indians and about
4500 were of African descent; the Chickasaws about 7000, of
whom about 3400 were Indians and 3700 were of African descent; and the Wichitas and Affiliated Bands, known as Caddoes, Wacoes, Towacanies, Keechies, Delawares and Ionies,
about 1100 people, of whom not exceeding 175 were Wichitas
and about one half Caddoes.
The decree of the Court of Claims rebited that by the treaties
between the United States and the Choctaw Nation or tribe of
Indians, and between the United States and the Choctaw and
Chickasaw Nations or tribes of Indians, the lands in dispute and
other lands were acquired by the United States "in trust for
the settlement of Indians thereon, and in trust andfor the bene,flt of said claimant Indians when the aforesaid trust shall
cease;" that "the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians
.were by the United States located within the boundaries of the
lands hereinbefore described;" that they "now number not
more than one thousand and sixty persons;" and that the location of the Wichitas and Affiliated Bands within said boundaries was "for the purpose of a~fording them permanent settlement therein."
It was then adjudged-Mr. Justice Peele dissenting-that
the lands in dispute had been acquired and were held by the
United States in trust for the purpose of settling Indians thereon,
and that whenever that purpose *as abandoned as to the whole
or any part thereof then all the lands not so devoted to Indian
settlement should be held in trust by the United- States for the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians exclusivel .K

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It was also adjudged and decreed that the members of the
Wichita and Affiliated Bands, not exceeding one thousand and
sixty, were equitably entitled to one hundred and sixty acres of
land each out of the lands in dispute and that the same should
be set apart to them by the United States, due regard being had
to any improvements made thereon by them respectively for
their permanent settlement.
It was further adjudged that the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations were in law and equity entitled to and were the owners
of such of the lands ceded to the United States by the Wichita
and Affiliated Bands as remain6d, after satisfying the provisions
for the Wichitas and Affiliated Bands, and that in the event of
the sale thereof by th4 United States the Indian plaintiffs should
be entitled to and receive the proceeds of such sale.
From this decree the United States, the Wichita and Affiliated Bands, and the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations severally
appealed. 34 C. Cl. 17.
The fundamental question to be determined on these appeals
arises out of the treaty concluded April 28, 1866, between
the United States and the Choctaw a.pd Chickasaw Nations,14 Stat. 1-69, relating to the lands constituting what has been
known as the Leased District, north of Red River and between
the100th and 98th degrees of west longitude-the lands marked
on the above map as tracts 4, 5, 6 and 7. By that treaty the
Choctaws and the Chickasa-ws, in consideration of the sum of
$8300,000, ceded to the United States the territory known as the
Leased District.
. The Government insists that this cession was absolute and
unaccompanied by any trust upon the termination or abandon-ment of which the Indians would be entitled either to the
territory ceded or to the proceeds of its sale.
The Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations deny such to be the
effect of the treaty of 1866, and insist that the United States
took the lands in trust to be used only for the settlement of
Indians, and that on the abandonment of such -trustthe lands
reverted, or should be adjudged to have reverted, to the Choctaws and Chickasaws.
The Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians contend that

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

-503

Opinion of the Court.

they are entitled to compensation in money for all the lands
left in the territory in dispute after making the allotments provided for in the agreement of 1891, and that it should have
been so adjudged.
The Choctaws also contend that they once owned, by transfer from the United States, a vast body of lands west of the
Leased District, for which they have never received anything,
and that the treaty of 1866 must be interpreted in the light of
that fact. What connection such a fact, if it had any existence,
could have vith the construction of the treaty of 1866 it is not
easy to perceive. But as the proposition just stated was the
subject-of much consideration in the Court of Claims, and as it
is earnestly pressed upon our attention, we -will first inquire
whether the 0hoctaws ever owned any lands west of the Leased
District, that is, west of the 100th degree of west longitude,
and then bring into view the circumstances leading up to the
treaty of 1866 which, it is argued, throw light on its interpretation. This being done, we will examine the provisions of
that treaty so far as they bear upon the title to the particular
lands in dispute.
I. By a treaty concluded August 21, 1818, an Indian tribe
called the Quapaws, in consideration of certain promises and
stipulations, did "cede and relinquish" to the United States all
the lands within the following boundaries: "Beginning at the
mouth of the Arkansaw River; thence extending up the Arkansaw to the Canadian Fork, and up the Canadian Fork to its
source; thence south to Big Red River, and down the middle
of that river to the Big Raft; thence, a direct line, so as to
strike the Mississippi River, thirty leagues in a straight line,
below the mouth of the Arkansaw; together with all their
claims to lands east of the Mississippi and north of the Arkansaw River, included within- the colored lines 1, 2 and 3 on the
above map, ' with the exception and reservation following, that
is to say: the tract of country bounded as follows: Beginning
at a point on the Arkansaw River, opposite the present post of
Arkansaw, and running thence, a due southwest course, to the
1 .map which accompanied the treaty of 1818.

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Washita [Wichita] River; thence, up that river, to the Saline
Fork; and up the Saline Fork to a point from whence a due
north course would strike the Arkansaw River at the Little
Rock; and thence, down the right bank of the Arkansaw, to
the place of beginning; whicb said tract of land, last above
designated and reserved, shall be surveyed and marked off, at
the expense of the United States, as soon as the same can be
done with convenience, and shall not be sold or disposed of, by
the said Quapaw tribe or nation, to any individual whatever,
nor to any State or nation, without the approbation of the
United States first had and obtained." Art. 2, 7 Stat. 176.
Observe in this boundary the words "extending up the Arkansaw to the Canadian Fork, and up the Canadian Fork to
its source." One of the questions much discussed is whether
the Quapaws owned and really intended to cede lands situated
as far west as the source of the Canadian Fork or river-that
point being far west of the 100th degree of west longitude.
Did the United States understand that it acquired by the Quapaw treaty of 1818 lands as far west at that time as the source
of the Canadian Fork or river, which (as is now known, but
was not known in 1818) rises in the northeastern part of New
Mexico, 36' north latitude by 1050 west longitude, while the
Red River rises in-the Staked Plains and arid table lands near
the eastern border of New Mexico, about latitude 350 north

and longitude 1030 10' west. This question cannot well be
determined without referring to other documents pertinent to
the present inquiry.
By a treaty signed within a few months after the date of the
treaty with the Quapaws, that is, on February 22, 1819, the
United States and Spain agreed :
. "ART. 3. The boundary line between the two countries west
of the Mississippi shall begin on the Gulph of Mexico, at the
mouth of the river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north, along
the western bank of that river, to the 32d degree of latitude;
thence, by a line due north; to the degree of latitude where it
strikes the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches, or Red River; then following the course of the Rio Roxo westward, to the degree of
longitude 100 west from Iondon and 23 from Wakington;

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

505

Opinion of the Court.

then crossing the said Red River, and running thence; by a line
due north, to the river Arkansas; thence, following the course
of the southern bank of the Arkansas, to its source, in latitude
42 north; and thence, by that parallel of latitude, to the South
Sea. The whole being as laid down in Melish's map of the
United States, published at Philadelphia, improved to the first
of January, 1818. But if the source of the Arkansas River shall
be found to fall north or south of latitude 42, then the line shall
run from the said source due south or north, as the case may
be, till it meets thesaid parallel of latitude 42, and'thence, along
The two high con.
the said parallel, to the South Sea.
tracting parties agree to cede and renounce all their rights,
claims and pretensions to the territories described by the said
line; thit is to say; the United States hereby cede to His Catholic Majesty and renounce forever all their rights, claims and
pretensions to the territorieslying west and south of the above
described line; and, in like manner, His Catholic Majesty cedes
to said United States all his rights, claims and pretensions to
any territories east and north of the said line; and, for himself.
his heirs and successors, renounces all claim to the said territories forever." 8 Stat. 252, 254, 256.
We here remark that the words in this treaty, "then following the course of the Rio Roxo [Red River] westward, to the
degTee of longitude '100 west frorn London and 23 from Washington, then crossing the said Red River, and running thence,
by a line due north, to the river Arkansas," indicate that in
the judgment of the United States at the time the treaty with
Spain was signed the lands west of the 100th degree of west longitude and south of the 420 parallel of latitude constituted or
should constitute part of the possessions of that country.
The treaty with Spain, although signed in 1819, was not
finally ratified until February 19, 1821. But between the signing of that treaty and its ratification, namely, on the 18th day
of October, 1820, a treaty was concluded between the United
States and the Choctaw Nation, whereby the latter ceded to
the United States certain lands east of the Mississippi River..
The main object of that treaty with the Choctaws was to exchange some of the lands then occupied by them for "a coun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

try beyond [west of] the Mississippi, where all, who live by
hunting and will not work, may be collected and settled together." The second article of that treaty was in these words:
"For and in consideration of the foregoing cession on the part
of the Choctaw Nation, and in part satisfaction for the same,
the commissioners of the United States, in behalf of said-States,
do hereby cede to said nation a tract of country west of the
Mississippi River situate between the Arkansas and Red Rivers, and bounded as follows: Beginning on the Arkansas River,
where the lower boundary line of the Cherokees strikes the
same; thence up the Arkansas to the Canadian Fork, and up
the same to its source; thence due south to the Red .River;
thence down Red River, three miles below the mouth of Little River, which empties itself into Red River on the north
side; thence a direct line to the beginning." 7 Stat. 210, 211.
Those who supervised the drawing of the treaty of 1820 evidently did not closely scrutinize the provisions of the treaty
with Spain signed the year previous: for the line "up the
same [Canadian Fork] to its source, thence due south to the
Red River" was in conflict with the Spanish treaty of 1819
which fixed the dividing line, running north and south, between
the United States and Spain on the 100th degree of west longitude. This is clear from the use of the words in the Choctaw
treaty of 1820, "up the Arkansas to the Canadian Fork, and
up the same to its source, thence due south to the Red River."
Or, perhaps, those who drew the treaty of 1820 assumed without inquiry that the source of the Canadian River was not farther west than the 100th degree of west longitude, which the
treaty of 1819 designated as the dividing line between the United
States and Spain. As the westernmost point of the Canadiaa
River or Fork is 105' west, ind the westernmost point of Red
River is about 103' 10' west longitude, a line running up the
Canadian Fork "to its source, thence due south to Red River,"
was an impossible line; for necessarily a line directly south from
the actual source of the Canadian River would never strike Red
River; while a line drawn from the actual source of the Canadian River to the westernmost point of Red River would cross

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW' &c. NATIONS.

507

Opinion of the Court.

the Canadian River several times, striking Red River bout longitude 1030 10' west.

The difficulties arising from the- conflicting description of
boundaries as given'in the Quapaw, Spanish and Choctaw treaties, above reerred to, seem to have been recognized when the
United States and the Choctaws, in execution, or in further"
recognition, of the treaty of 1820, made, another treaty on the
27th of September, 1830. 7 Stat. 333, 331.
By the latter treaty it was provided:
"ART. 2. The United States, under a grant specially to be
made by the President of the United States, shall cause to be
conveyed to the Choctaw Nation a tract of 'country west of the
Mississippi River, in fee simple to them and their descendants,
to inure io them while they shall exist as a; nation and live on
it; beginning near Fort Smith where the Arkansas boundary
crosses the Arkansas River, running thence to the source of the
Canadian Fork if in the Zimits of the United Stas, or to those
limits; thence due south to Red River, and down Red River tothe west boundary of the Territory of Arkansas; thence north
along that line to the beginning. The boundary of the same
to be agreeably to the treaty made and concluded at Washington City in the year 1825. The grant to be executed so soon
as the present treaty shall be ratified.
"ART. 3. In consideration of the provisions -contained in the
several articles of this treaty, the Choctaw Nation of Indians
consent and hereby cede to the United States the entire country
they own and possess east of the Mississippi River; and they
agree to remove beyond the Mississippi River as early as practicable, and will so arrange their removal that as many as possible
of their people, not exceeding one half of the whole number,
shall depart during the falls of 1831 and 1832; the residue to
follow during the succeding fall of 1833; a better opportunity
in this manner will be afforded the Government to' extend to
them the facilities and comforts which it is desirable should be
extended in conveying them to their new homes.
"ART. 4. The Government and people of the United States

are hereby obliged to secure to the said Choctaw Nation of Red
People the jurisdiction and government of all the persons and

OCTOBER TERM[, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

property that may be within their limits west, so that no Territory or State shall ever have a right to pass laws for the government of the Choctaw Nation of Red People and their descendants ; and that no part of the land granted them shall
ever be embraced in any Territory or State; but the United
States shall forever secure said Choctaw Nation from and
against all laws except such as from time to time may be enacted
in their own national councils, not inconsistent with the Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States; and except such
as may and which have been enacted by Congress, to the extent that Congress under the Constitution are required to exercise a legislation over Indian affairs. But the Choctaws, should
this treaty be ratified, express a wish that Congress may grant
to the Choctaws the right of punishing, by their own laws, any
white man who shall come into their nation and infringe any
of their national regulations." 7 Stat. 333, 334.
It cannot be doubted that the purpose of Article 2 of the
treaty of 1830 was to provide for a special grant to the Choctaws of the lands intended to be ceded to them by Article 2 of
the treaty of 1820, -and no others. It was as if the parties declared that the words in the treaty of 1820, "thence up the Arkansas to the Canadian Fork, and up the same to its source,
thence due south to the Red River," should be held to mean the
same as the words in the treaty of 130, "thence to the source
of the Canadian Fork, if in the limits of the United States, or
to those limits, thence due south to Red River." The treaty of
1830 plainly imports the understanding of the parties at that
time that whatever might be the wording of the treaty of 1820,
the United States had not thereby intended to grant, and the
Choctaws had not thereby'expected to recleive, any lands at or
near the source of the Canadian Fork unless that point was
within the limits of. the United States -that both parties had
in view at that time only lands within the limits of the United
States.
As the treaty of 1820 provided that the Choctaws should
have lands as far west as the -source of the Canadian River, it
is suggested that-the United States could not legally modify
that provision by the subsequent ratification in 1821 of the

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

509

Opinion of the Court.

treaty with Spain signed in 1819. But it was entirely competent for the parties, without any new or valuable consideration
intervening, to rectify a mistake in the description of boundaries, and to agree, as in effect they did by the treaty of 1830,
that the words "to the Canadian Fork, and up the same to its
source," in the treaty of 1820, were to be interpreted as meaning "to the source of the Canadian Fork, if in the limits of the
United States, or to those limits" -thus relieving the United
States from any obligation to make a special grant to the Choctaws of lands which by the treaty with Spain, ratified in 1821,
had been recognized as part of Spanish territory. After the
treaty of 1830 the line "thence due south to the Red. River"
was to be taken as running from a point on the dividing line
between the United States and Spain, the 100th degree of west
longitude as established by the treaty of 1819-1821, thence due
south to that river.
In confirmation of the view we have taken of the treaty of
1830, we may refer to the agreement made January 17, 1837,
by which the Choctaws assented to the formation by the Chickasaws of a district "within the limits of their country." 11 Stat.
563. In the description of the boundaries of that district, which
adjoins the district of the Choctaws on the west, it appears that
one of the lines ran to a point ten or twelve miles above the
mouth of the south fork of the Canadian River, "thence west
along the main Canadian River to its source, if in the limits of
the United States, or to those limits; and thence, due south to
Red River, and down Red River to the beginning." Hlere was
a repetition of the words of the treaty of 1830 and a distinct
recognition of the fact that the Choctaw country was not to be
regarded as embracing any lands not then, in 1837, within the
limits of the United States. It cannot be contended that any
lands west of the 100th degree of west longitude were within
such limits as then established.
It is an important fact in this connection that prior to the
treaty of 1830 the United States of America and the United
Mexican' States, by the treaty between them of January 12,
1828, recognized the boundaries of the respective countries to
be as fixed by the treaty of 1819-1821. 8 Stat. 372, 374. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

this position was maintained; for by a treaty concluded in 1838
between the United States and the Republic of Texas, the latter
recognized as binding upon it the treaty made in 1828 with the
United Mexican States. Treaties and Conventions, (1776-1887)
p. 1079. And in the settlement made in 1850 between the
United States and the. State of Texas the latter agreed that its
boundary on the north should commence at the point at which
the meridian of i00 degrees west from Greenwich is intersected
by the parallel of 30' 30' north latitude, and run from that point
west to the meridian 103 degrees west from Greenwich, then
due south to the 32d degree of north latitude, thence on that
parallel to the Rio Bravo del N~orte, and thence with the channel of that river to the Gulf of Mexico. 9 Stat. 446, o. 49;
United States v. Texas, 162 U. S. 1,, 39.
It is said that the United States made a gift to Texas of the
lands west of the 100th. degree of west longitude, but that it
could not give away lands previously ceded by the treaty of
1820 to the Choctaws. We have already shown that the United
States and the Choctaws substantially stipulated in the treaty
of 1830 that the lands to be transferred to the Choctaws in consideration of the transfer by the Choctaws of lands east of the
Mississippi River were only such as were within the limits of
the United States. But we add, as a fact of significance, that
in 1842 the special grant provided for by the treaty of 1830 to
be made to the Choctaws described one of the lines of the lands
granted to those Indians as "running thence to the source of
the Canadian Fork, if in the limits of the United States, or to
those limits, thence due south to the Red River." This grant was
accepted by the Choctaws, and we find no evidence in the record
tending to show that they at that time or at any time prior
thereto claimed that the United States was under any obligation
to transfer to them, or to eompensate them for any lands west
of the 100th degree of west longitude which the United States
had recognized to be within the limits'of Spain. There is no
suggestion even in the petition in this case that the treaty of
1830 did not properly express the intention of the parties as to
the lands to be transferred to the Choctaws.
II. Proceeding in our examination of the facts supposed to

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

511

Opinion of the Court.

throw light upon the meaning of the treaty of 1866, we find that
in 1851, for the first time, the Choctaws, acting under some influence not explained by the record, insisted that their country
extended west of the 100th degree of west longitude. In a letter dated July 11, 1854, and addressed to the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs by Choctaw delegates, it was said: "
We shall therefore have to demand the immediate removal of
the several bands of Texas and other Indians, who have settled
within our limits; and if this demand be not complied with, we
will remove them ourselves, using force if necessary. The Government must look to the consequences, whatever they may be.
Our country extends west to the headwaters of the Canadian,
about the 103d degree of west longitude, and we are prepared to
maintain our rights to a boundary that far west by facts and
evidence which cannot be disputed. In the compromise with
Texas in 1850 that portion of our country west of the 100th
degree of west longitude was assigned to that State, in direct
and palpable violation of our rights. We must demand to be
repossessed of this portion of our country; and if this is not done
our people will take possession of it, and leave the Government
to settle with Texas and the Indians upon it for such damages
as they claim."
Under date of April 9, 1855, the United States agent for
the Choctaws, acting under instructions from the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs, asked the Choctaw delegates, then in Wash-.
ington, for a conference-submitting to them certain interrog-atories to be'answered in writing-" for the purpose of ascertaining what arrangements, if any, can be made with them,
having in view the adjustment of all differences between their
tribe and the Chickasaw tribe of Indians, the Government of
the United States, and the permanent settlement of the Wichita
and other bands of Indians in the Choctaw country."
The Choctaw delegates, in reply, said among other things:
"Respecting the Wichita and other bands of Indians, who
have intruded themselves within the limits of our country, we
have to remark they are, as you know, a nuisance, and we had
far rather be rid of them altogether. In our communication to
the acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs of the 11th of July

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

last, we demanded their removal as we had a right to do; but
we are not aware that any order has been given on the subject. We have had it in contemplation to renew this demand,
and if not complied with to remove them by force if necessary.
We and our people have, however, as we have ever had, every
disposition to comply with the policy and wishes of the Government ; and if it be an object of importance to it to have these
Indians accommodated with a home within the boundaries of
our country, though such an arrangement would be greatly repugnant to our inclinations and feelings, we would consent to it
on fair and reasonable terms, if it can be made a part of a just
and equitable adjustment of all the matters involved in the
existing controversy between the Choctaws and the Government;
otherwise we could not take the serious responsibility of encountering the prejudices and opposition of our people to the
measure."
The Chickasaw delegates, with whom a conference was also
sought, said, under date of April 14, 1855: "In regard to the
third point, they have only to say that, in conjunction with the
Choctaws, they are willing to enter into an arrangement with
the United States Government for the permanent settlement of
the Wichita and other bands of Indians in the Choctaw country,
upon terms just, fair and safe for both the Choctaws and Chickasaws."
Under date of April 21, 1855, the Secretary of the Interior
wrote to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs: "If you have
any plan for settlement of these difficulties, or if the Choctaws
will submit a distinct offer, as the terms on which they will
settle with the Chickasaws, and provide for the Wichitas and
other Indians within the limits of the Choctaw country, the
Department will.give it prompt consideration, and with every
disposition to award to them and the Chickasaws such degree
of favor as may not be incompatible with the rights and interests of the United States.'
On the 24th of April, 1855, the Choctaw delegates wrote to
the Indian agent: "2. We will agree to provide, in the same
convention or supplemental treaty, that the Government shall
have the permanent use of a limited portion of the western

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

513

Opinion of the Court

part of our country, for the accommodation of the Wichita and
other bands of Indians, for a fair and just consideration, the
amount to depend, of course, upon the extent of country required for the purpose. The Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
in his letter, requires you to ascertain our terms for the use of
that portion of our country west of the 98th degree of west
longitude, and also for that west of the 99th degree. We are
unwilling t6 lease, for the purpose mentioned, any portion of
our country east of the 99th degree; but for the lease of that
west of that degree we will consent, in behalf of our people, to
take the sum of $400,000."
Two days later, April 26, 1855, the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs thus wrote to the Indian agent:

".

.

.

You will

also ascertain upon what terms the Choctaws will arrange with
the United States, for the use of their country west of 980 west
longitude, for the Wichitas and such other bands of Indians as
the Government may desire to settle permanently west of that
degree of longitude, also upon what terms the right to settle
said Indians west of 990 west longitude can be obtained, and

report to this office with the least delay possible."
On the day last named the Indian agent sent a letter to the
Commissioner, enclosing "a proposition for the lease of the
Choctaw possesk Tns west of the 99th degree of west longitude
to the Government, for the permanent settlement of the Wichita
and other bands of Indians within che Choctaw country."
Under date of April 27, 1855, the Secretary of the Interior
wrote to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs: "As I have
heretofore said, I have every disposition to act towards these
Indians in a spirit of the utmost liberality consistent with the
just rights and interests of the United States; and, all things
considered, am disposed to think the proposition for the permanent accommodation of the Wichita and other Indians, and
the amount demanded therefor, worthy your consideration;
and you. are authorized to enter into negotiations with the
Choctaws on that basis. I think, however, that, notwithstanding their claim to an extent of country west of the 100th meridian of longitude is regarded by the Department as without
any foundation in law or equity, 'it might preventfarther trouvoL. OLxxIx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ble, in regardto it, to insert an article in the spplement.Z treaty
or convention, now to be held, requiring the Choctaws to relinquish and abandon all right or claim to the same."
Under date of May 2, 1855, the Indian agent wrote to the
Choctaw delegates: "In view of the probability that An arrangement will be effected between the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, restricting the western boundary of the I Chickasaw
district' to the 980 of west longitude, west from Greenwich, I
desire to ascertain whether you will agree, the Ohickasaws assenting, to lease the country between 980 and 1000 west longitude and between Red and Canadian Rivers to the United
States, for the permanent settlement of the Wichita and other
bands of Indians within the territorial limits of the Choctaw
Nation; and if so, upon what terms, it being understood that
the Choctaws shall relinquish and quitclaim, in favor of the
United States,whatever interest they may have in the country lying west of the 1000 of west longitude."
On the 3d of May, 1855, the Choctaw delegates wrote to the
Indian agent: "In our communication to you of the 9th ultimo,
we referred to the prejudices and opposition of our people to
the location of the Indians referred to within the limits of our
country, and our repugnance to such an arrangement; but we
stated that we had every disposition to comply with the policy
and wishes of the G6vernment on the subject; and that, if the
measure were one of importance to it, we would take the responsibility and consent to it, on fair and reasonable terms. In our
subsequent communication of the 24th instant, we stated our
unwillingness to lease* for that purpose, any portion of our
country east of the 990 of west longitude, but that we Wvould
agree to lease that west of that degree, for the sum of four
hundred thousand dollars.. On further consideration of the subject, however, since the receipt of your letter, we have concluded, in the same spirit of accommodation, to agree to comply
with the wishes of the Government by leasing to it the further
portion of our country between the 980 and 1000 of west longitude. The question of the total relinquishment of any portion
of our territorial rights is one of even greater delicacy and difficulty. We have fully acquainted you with the grounds of our

UNITED STATES v.*CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

515

Opinion of the Court.

claim to title to the headwatersof the CanadianRiver, extending
asfar west as at least to the 1030 of west longitude. We believe
our title to be perfectly valid and good; but as it is questioned,
if not disputed, by the Government, west of the 1000 of west longitude, and we are anxious to put at rest all questions of controversy with it, we will relinquish and quitclaim to it our
rights wet of that degree of longitude, on fair and equitable
terms. The extent of country involved is large; we know it to
be valuable, and we believe the acquisition of our title to it to
be important to the Government; still we have no dispotition
to be exorbitant. As a consideration for the whole arrangement,,
we would consent to take eight hundred thousand dollars-one
half thereof for the lease of the country between the 98' and
1000 west longitude, and the other half for the relinquishment
of our right west of the latter degree. The above proposition
has reference to the arrangement as a whole. Were it to be
confined only to the lease of the portion of the country between
the two degrees of longitude mentioned, we should for obvious
reasons feel constrained to ask not less than six hundred thousand
dollars therefor."
On May 4,1855, the Indian agent wrote to the Choctaw delegates: "If the Choctaws will propose to lease to the United
States the territory vest of 980 and east of 1000 west longitude,
(the Chickasaws assenting,) and couple with it a relinquishment
of all claims west of 1000 west longitude, the Government will
agree to pay them $600,000."
Under date of June 7, 1855, the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs wrote to the Acting Secretary of the Interior: ".
After consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, and with
his concurrence, Agent Cooper was instructed, verbally, to inform the delegation that if they would accept the sum of
$600,00) for the lease of the country between the two degrees,
and the relinquishmentwest of the 1000, the Government would
give that sum. The delegation assented to this proposition, and
agreed to take the sum of $600,000 for the lease of the territory
within the two degrees mentioned, and the relinquishment of
their claims to the country west of the 100th degree. The
Chickasaw delegation also assented and agreed to the terms of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the lease, and the question was settled, as I supposed; but both
delegations now contend that the United States shall be restricted, in the number of bands of Indians to be located in
the country leased, to such as are now residing in it. With
such a limitation on the use of the country, the lease would be
of little value, and I have, therefore, declined to assent to the
limitation which the Indians desire to impose, and have claimed
that the Government must be left free to locate such Indians as
it may desire within the ceded country.

.

.

.

The delega-

tions propose, as a compromise, that the Choctaws quitclaim to
the country wiest of 100', and that they and the Chickasaws will
lease the country between 990 and 100 ° for the permanent settlement of any Indians whom the Government may desire to locate therein, for the sum of $600,000."
Under date of June 14, 1855, the Choctaw delegates thus addressed the Commissioner of Indian Affairs: "The lease we bad
consented to agree to was a limited one, viz., for the permanent
settlement, within the country leased, of the Wichita and several alien tribes and bands now in our country, the Government
to have the control of them, but we still to retain jurisdiction
over the country itself, with the right of settlement therein by
Choctaws and Chickasaws as heretofore, as expressed and provided for in the convention. If the Government had the unrestricted right to bring in any and all Indians it pleased, the
whole district might soon be filled up with a discordant, restless
and predatory population, which would endanger the frontier
settlements of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, deprive us practically of our jurisdiction and necessarily exclude Choctaws and
Chickasaws from settling within the district, if they so desired.
Such an arrangement would be a*virtual sale of that portion of
our country, to which we could under no circumstances submit.
Moreover the consideration offered would be entirely inadequate. We had agreed to relinquish our claims to territory
west of the 1000 of west longitude, embracing at least six and a
half millions of acres. The district desired to be leased contains quite seven millions more; so that practically the Govern,mentwould have acquired from us some thirteen and a half

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

51T

Opinion of the Court.

millions of acres of land, for the certainly insufficient sum of
six hundred thousand dollars."
We have made this extended reference to 'the correspondence
between the Indians and the officers of the United States for
the purpose, not only of showing that the Choctaws had no
claim, legal or equitable, to territory west of the 100th degree
of west longitude, but of indicating the situation and relations
of the parties when the treaty of 1855, to be presently referred
to, was concluded.
The facts, above stated, so far as they relate to lands west
of the 100th degree of west longitude, may be thus summarized :
1. By the treaty of 1818 two. of the boundary lines of the
tract of country ceded by the Quapaws to the United States'
were described as extending "up the Arkansaw to the Canadian Fork, and up the Canadian Fork to its source; thence
south to-Big Red River."
2. By the treaty signed in 1819, the dividing line between
the United States and Spain, running north frqm Red River,
was established on the 100th degree of west longitude.
3. In 1820, before the treaty of 1819 was ratified, the United
States made a treaty with the Choctaw Nation ceding certain
territory, two of the lines of which were described by the
treaty of 1820 as extending "up the Arkausas to the Canadian
Fork, and up the same to its source; thence due south to the
Red River." But those were impossible lines, because the source
of the Canadian River or Fork was at the 105th degree of west
longitude, while the source of Red River was at the 103d degree of west longitude, and a line running due south from the
source of the Canadian River would not strike Red River.
4. When the treaty of 1830 was made with the Choctaws
the fact was recognized that the United States had apparently
ceded to the Choctaws lands west of the 100th degree of west
longitude, which by the previous treaty with Spain signed in
1819 and ratified in 1821 had been recognized as within Spanish territory. But that the United States might not appear to
cede or agree to cede lands outside of its limits, the treaty of
1830 corrected or qualified the description in the treaty of 1820
of the line running up the Canadian Fork to its source by using

OCTOtER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

the words "if in the limits of the United States, or to those
limits; thence due south to Red River." This change in the
wording of the treaty of 1820 was recognized by the agreement
between the Choctaws and Chickasaws of 1837, and was con-

firmed by the Choctaws when they accepted the special grant
executed in 1842.
5. It does not appear that the Choctaws made any claim between 1830 and 1854 to have derived by cession from the United
States any title to lands west of the dividing line between the
United States and Spain, that is, west of the 100th degree of
west longitude, or that the Choctaws complained during that
period that any lands ceded to them by the treaty of 1820 were
wrongfully or illegally recognized by the treaty of 1819 as belonging to Spain.
6. In 1854-'5 the Choctaws, for the first time, asserted title to
lands west of the 100th degree of west longitude as far west at
least as the 103d degree. This claim was disputed by the
United States, and pronoqnced by the Secretary of the Interior
to be wholly without any foundation in law or equity, although
that officer deemed it wise that the new treaty then (1855)- contemplated to be made should embrace a relinquishment by the
Choctaws to the United' States of any interest they might have
in lands west of the 100th degree of west longitude.
7. The Choctaws expressed their willingness to make a treaty
leasing to the United States certain territory in, their country
east of the 100th degree of west longittide, and. relinquishing
any and all claim to lands west of that degree.
I . Such was the situation when the parties entered upon
negotiations resulting in another treaty. We allude to the
treaty of June 22, 1855, upon some of the provisions of which
much stress has been placed by the parties.
The preamble to that treaty recites:
"Whereas the political connection, heretofore existing between the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes of Indians, has given
rise to unhappy and injurious dissensions and controversies
among them, which render necessary a readjustment of their
relations to each other and to the United States; and whereas
the United States desire that the Choctaw Indians 8hall Pelin-

UNITED STATES v..
CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

519

Opinion of the Court.

quish all claim to any territory west of the 100th degree of we8t
longitude, and also to make provision for the permanent settlement, within the Choctaw country, of the Wichita and certain
other tribes or bands of Indians, for which purpose the Choctaws and Chickasaws are willing to lease, on reasonable terms,
to the United States that portion of their common territory
which is west'of the 98th degree of west longitude [that is, the
territory between the 98th and 100th degree of west longitude];
and whereas the Choctaws contend that by a just and fair construction of the treaty of September 27, 1830, they are of right
entitled to the net proceeds of the lands ceded- by them to the
United States, under said treaty, and have proposed that the
question of their right to the same, together with the whole
subject-matter of their unsettled claims, whether national or
individual, against the United States, arising under the various
provisions of said treaty, shall be referred to the Senate of the
United States for final adjudication and adjustment; and whereas it is necessary, for the simplification and better understanding of the relations between the United States and the Choctaw
Indians, that all their subsisting treaty stipulations be embodied
in one comprehensive instrument. Now, therefore," etc.
The boundaries of "the Choctaw and Chickasaw country,"
as established by Article 1 of this treaty, were as follows: "Beginning at a point on the Arkansas River, one hundred paces
east of old Fort Smith, where the western boundary line of the
State of Arkansas crosses the said river, and running thence
due south to Red River; thence up Red River to the point
where the meridian of one hundreddegrees west longitude r'osses
the same; thence north along 8aid meridian, to the main Canadian River; thence down said river to its junction with the
Arkansas River; thence down said river to the place of beginning;" and pursuant to the act of Congresi approved May 28,
1880, 4 Stat. 411, .c.148, the United States forever secured and
guaranteed the lands embraced within those limits to the members of 'the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, theih heirs and successors, to be held in common; so that each and every member
of either tribe should have an equal and undivided interest in
the whole, subject, however, to the condition that no part thereof

OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

should ever be sold without the consent of both tribes; and that
the land should-revert to the United States if the Indians and
their heirs became extinct, or abandoned the same.
It will be observed that "the Choctaw and Chickasaw country," as thus established, embraced no lands west of the 100th
degree of west longitude.
Article 2 of the treaty established the boundary of the Chickasaw district-the district marked on the diagram heretofore
made part of this opinion as tract 3.
By Article 3 it was provided that "the remainder of the
country held in common by the Choctaws and Chickasaws shall
constitute the Choctaw district, and their officers and people
shall at all times have the right of safe conduct and free passage through the Chickasaw district?' This territory is designated on the diagram as tract 2.
Article 4 provided that the government and laws .then in operation, and not inconsistent with the treaty, should remain in
full force within the limits of the Chickasaw district, until the
Chickasaws should adopt a constitution.
Article 5 secured to the members of either tribe the right
freely to settle within the jurisdiction of the other, and have all
the rights, privileges dnd immunities of citizens thereof, except
that no member of either tribe should participate in the funds
belonging to the other tribe.
Article 6 provided for the surrender of fugitives from the justice of either tribe.
Article 7 secured to each tribe the unrestricted right of selfgovernment, and, with certain exceptions not necessary to be
here stated, full jurisdiction over persons and property within
their respective limits.
Article 8 provided that in consideration of the foregoing
stipulations, and immediately upon the ratification of the treaty,
there should be paid to the Choctaws, in such manner as their
national council should direct, out of the national fund of the
Chickasaws held in trust by. the United States, the sum of
$150,000.
Articles 9 and 10 are the important parts of the treaty of

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

521

Opinion of the Court.

1855 so far as the present litigation is concerned. 'We therefore give them here in full:
"ART. 9. The Choctaw Indians do hereby absolutely andforever quitclaim and relinquish to the United States all their
right, title and interest in and to any and all lands west of the
100th degree of west longitude; and the Choctaws and Chickasaws do hereby lease to the United States all that portion of
their common territory west of the 98th degree of west longitude, for thepermanentsettlement of the Wichita and such other
tribes or bands of Indians as the Government may desire to locate
therein; excluding, however, all the Indians of New Mexico,
and also those whose usual ranges at present are north of the
Arkansas River, and whose permanent locations are north of
the Canadian River, but including those bands whose permanent
ranges are south of the Canadian, or between it and the Arkansas; which Indians shall be subject to the exclusive control of
the United States, under such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the rights and interests of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, as may from time to time be prescribed by the President
for their government; Provided,however, the territory so leased
shall remain open to settlement by Choctaws and Chickasaws
as heretofore.
"ART. 10. In consideration of the foregoing relinquishment
and lease, and as soon as practicable after the ratification of this
convention, the United States will pay to the Choctaws the sum
of six hundred thousand dollars, and to the Chickasaws the sum
of two hundred thousand dollars, in such manner as their general
councils shall respectively direct." 11 Stat. 611, 612, 613.
The treaty of 1855 contains other articles, but they do not
affect the 'determination of the present issues, and therefore we
need not advert to them.
ThA lands described in this treaty as having been leased to
the United States constituted what is called the "Leased District," no part of which, as we have seen, was west of the 100th
degree of west longitude.
There can be no doubt as to the meaning and scope of the
treaty of 1855. In order simply to avoid future dispute, the
United States desired the relinquishment by the Choctaw Nation

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of all claim to any territory west of the 100th degree of west
longitude, and, in addition, it obtained a lease of the territory
between the 98th and 100th degrees of west longitude for the
permanent settlement of the Wichita and certain other tribes or
bands of Indians, the right being reserved to the Choctaws and
Chickasaws to settle on the leased territory as theretofore. The
consideration for the "relinquishment and lease" was $800,000.
It is immaterial to inquire as to the value placed by the Indians
or by the United States upon the relinquishment and lease
respectively. The Indians accepted for both the aggregate
amount named. It is idle therefore to contend that the Indians
had any claim upon the United States, after the treaty of 1855,
for lands west of the 100th degree of west longitude. The
treaty closed that dispute forever, if it had not been closed by
previous treaties and by the special grant of 1842 made pursuant to Article 2 of the treaty of 1830, and which, as we have
said, estopped the Indians from claiming any lands not within
the limits of the United States. As to the lands the control of
which was acquired by the lease embodied in the treaty of 1855,
it may be assumed that the United States did not then desire
to obtain the fee, but took the lands for specifically defined
objects, upon the ace6mplishment of which the Indians could
insist as a condition of the lease.
After the treaty of 1855 it was not possible for the Choctaws
to assert any claim to lands west of the 100th degree of west
longitude, and as to the lands between that and the 98th degree
of west longitude, the United States held them under a permanent lease given in 1855, which practically divested the Choctaws of all interest in the territory constituting the Leased
District, except that they could settle in it if they so desired.
IV. Subsequently to the making of the treaty of 1855, and
until the Civil Wdr intervened, the relations between the United
States and these Indians were, so far as the record discloses,
entirely harmonious. But their relations changed when that
war opened and the Choctaws and Chickasaws co6perated with
the Confederate forces, making war upon Indians adhering to
the United States. As early as February 7,1861, the General
Council of the Choctaw Nation passed resolutions declaring that

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

523

Opinion of the Court.

in the event of a permanent dissolution of the Union the natural
affections, education, institutions and interests of its people indissolubly bound them to the Confederate States; IReb. Rec.
Series I, Vol. 1, p. 682; and on the 25th of MWay, 1861, the legislature of the Chickasaws passed resolutions declaring that in
the war then opening the Confederate States were their natural
allies, and called upon the neighboring Indian nations to cobperate with them in the defence of the territory they inhabited
"from Northern invasion by the Lincoln hordes and Kansas robbers." Reb. Rec. Series I; Vol. 3, p. 585.
The Civil War having ended, a council was held in September, 1865, at Fort Smith, Arkansas, which was attended by D. N.
Cooley, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and others named by
the President. There were also in attendance representatives
of the Choctaws, Chickasaws, Creeks, Cherokees, Seminoles,
Osages, Senecas, Shawnees, Quapaws, Wyandottes, Wichitas
and Comanches. What was said at that meeting by the commissioners on behalf of the United States is supposed to have
-some bearing upon the present issues. An address was made
by Chairman Cooley to the Indian delegates, the substance of
which was printed in a newspaper, and was as follows:
"Brothers: After considering your speeches made yesterday
the commissioners have decided to make the- following reply
and statement of the policy of the Government. Brothers:
We arb instructed by the President to negotiate a treaty or
treaties with any or all of the nations, tribes or bands of Indians
in the Indian- Territory, Kansas or of the plains west of the
Indian Territory and Kansas. The following-named nations
and tribes have by-their own acts, by making treaties with the
enemies of the United States, at the dates hereafter named, forfeited all right to annuities, lands and protection by the United
States. The different nations 4nd tribes having made treaties
with the rebel government are as follows, viz.: The Creek Nation, July 10, 1861; Choctaws and Chickasaws, July 12, 1861;
Seminoles, August 1, 1861; Shawnees, Delawares, Wichitas
and affiliated tribes residing in leased territory, August 12, 1861;
the Comanches of the Prairie, August 12, 1861; the Great
Qsages, October 2, 1861; the Senecas, Senecas and Shawnees

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

(Neosho Agency), October 4, 1861 ; the Quapaws, October 4,
1861; the Cherokees, October 7,1861.

By these nations hav-

ing entered into treaties with the so-called Confederate States,
and the rebellion being now ended, they are left without any
treaty whatever, or treaty obligation for protection by the
United States.
"Under the terms of the treaties with the United States and
the law of Congress of July 5, 1862, all these nations and tribes
forfeited and lost all their rights to annuities and lands. The
President, however, does not desire to take advantage of or
enforce the penalties for the unwise actions of these nations.
The President is anxious 'to renew the relations which existed
at the breaking out of the rebellion. We, as representatives of
the President, are empowered to enter into new treaties with the
proper delegates of the tribes located within the so-called Indian
Territory and others above named living west and .north of the
Indian Territory. Such treaties must contain substantially the
following stipulations: 1. Each tribe must enter into a treaty
for permanent peace and amity with themselves, each nation
and tribe, and with the United States. 2. Those settled in the
Indian Territory must bind themselves, when called upon by
the Government, to aid in compelling the Indians of the plains
to maintain peaceful relations with each other, with the Indians
in the Territory, and with the United States. 3. The institution of -slavery, which has existed among several of the tribes,
must be forthwith abolished, and measures taken for the nnconditional emancipation of all persons held in bondage, and
for their incorpgration into the tribes on an equal footing with
the original members, or suitably provided for. 4. A stipulation in the treaties that slavery or involuntary servitude shall
never exist in the tribe or nation except in punishment of crime.
5. A portion of the lands hitherto owned and occupied by you
must be set apart for the friendly tribes now in Kansas and
elsewhere, on such terms as may be agreed upon by the parties
and approved by the Government, or such as may be fixed by
the Government. 6. It is the policy of the Government, unless
other arrangements be made, that all the nations and tribes in
the Indian Territory be formed into one consolidated govern-

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

525

Opinion of the Court.

ment, after the plan proposed by the Senate of the United
States in a bill for organizing the Indian Territory. 7. No
white person except officers, agents and employ~s of the Government, or of any internal improvement authorized by the
Government, will be permitted to reside in the Territory unless
formally incorporated with some tribe according to theusages
of the band.
"Brothers: You have now heard and understand what are
the views and wishes of the President, and the commissioners,
as they told you yesterday, will expect definite answers from
each of you upon the questions submitted. -As we said yesterday, we say' again, that in any event those who have always
been loyal; although their nations may have gone over to the
enemy, will be liberally provided for and dealt with."
The committee on the part of the Choctaws and Chickasaws,
in reply to the proposition submitted by the commissioners of
the United States as the basis of new treaties, said:
"We are pleased to learn that you propose to renew your
previous relations with us, and we are willing to go into negotiations for the making of a nep. treaty with the United States,
and as a basis of this new treaty accept articles 1st and -7th. In
reference to the requirements of the article 2d, we desire to say
that we wish as far as possible to avoid coming in conflict with
our red brethren, should any of them be so unfortunate as to
get into conflict with the United States authorities. We are
willing to guarantee all our influence in favor of peace in all
its bearings with our red brethren, and will hit object to any
of our citizens volunteering in any war in which the United
States may become involved, for the aiding of the United
States. We are willing to enter into negotiations for the settlement of all the points contained in the 3d and 4th articles.
On certain terms, on which we can doubtless agree with you,
we are willing to admit the settlement of other tribes within
our territory, as proposed in the 5th article. We are willing
to submit the territorial bill referred to in the 6th article for
the consideration of our respective general councils, and for
this purpose request a copy of that bill for the principal chief
of the Choctaw Nation and for the governor of the Chickasaw

. OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Nation. We accept article 7th, and are willing to have the
provisions thereof incorporated into the treaty. We are also
willing to incorporate a provision that no individual shall be
proscribed, or any act of forfeiture or confiscation passed against
those who remain friendly to the United States, and that they
shall enjoy equal privileges with other members of the nation."
Among the documents in the record is a draft of a treaty between the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes
which, it was stated, was submitted by the United States commissioners at the council held at Fort Smith. It is said in the
opinion of the Court of Claims-and we think correctly-that
this treaty was never agreed upon or executed. It need not
therefore. be set out here.
The reports, official and unofficial, of what was said and done
before and at the Fort Smith council, show that the persons in
attendance there were aware of the exact situation. They separated with the expectation or understanding that the matters
then under consideration were to be further discussed and a conclusion reached in Washington in the spring of 1866, at which
place delegates from the Indian tribes would attend.
In 1866 the negotiations between the United States and the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations were resumed at Washington.
The result was the treaty concluded April, 28, 1866. 14 Stat.
769. The respective rights of the Choctaws and Chickasaws
and of the United States, as involved in the present case, depend
upon the construction of that treaty.
It is to be taken as beyond dispute that when the parties entered upon the negotiations resulting in that treaty, neither
overlooked the fact that the Choctaws, by the treaty of 1855,
had forever quitclaimed any claim they had to territory west of
the 100th degree of west loigitude. Nor could either have forgotten that the United States had, by the same treaty, acquired
the control of the Leased District, without limit as to time, for
the permanent settlement of certain Indians, excluding other
Indians. Bearing these facts in mind, let us see what was effected by .the treaty of 1866.
By Article 1, permanent peace and friendship were established
between the United States and those nations-the Choctaws and

UNIrED

'TATES v.. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

527'

Opinion of the Court.

Chickasaws binding themselves respectively to use their influence
and to make every exertion to induce Indians of the plains to
maintain peaceful relations with each other, with other Indians,
and with the United States.
By Article 2, the Choctaws and Chickasaws covenanted and
agreed that neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, otherwise
than in punishment of crime whereof the parties had been duly
convicted in accordance with laws applicable to all members of
the .particular nation, should ever exist in those nations.
Article 3-the important part of that treaty-was in these
words: "The Choctaws and the Chickasaws, in consideration
of the sum 6f three hundred thousand dollars, hereby cede to
the United States the teritorywest of the 98' of west longitude,

known as the Leased .District,provided that the said sum shall
be invested and held by the United States, at an interest not
less that five per cent, in trust for the said -nations, until the legislatures of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations respectively
shall have made such laws, rules and regulations as may be necessary to give all persons of African descent resident in the said
nations at the date of the treaty of Fort Smith, and their descendants, heretofore held in slavery among said nations, all the
rights, privileges and immunities, including the right of suffrage,
of citizens of said nations, except in the annuities, moneys and
public domain claimed by, or belonging to, said nations respectively; and also to give to such persons who were residents as
-aforesaid, and their descendants, forty acres each of the land of
said nations on the same terms as the Choctaws and Chickasaws,
to be selected on the survey of said land, after the Choctaws
and Chickasaws and Kansas Indians have made their selections
as herein provided; and immediately on the enactment of such
laws, rules and regulations, the said sum of three hundred thousand dollars shall be paid to the said Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations in the proportion of three fourths to the former and
one fourth to the latter-less such sum, at the rate of one hundred dollars per capita, as shall be sufficient to pay such persons of African descent before referred to as within ninety days
after the passage of such laws, rules and regulations shall elect
to remove and actually remove from the said nations respec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tively. And should the said laws, rules and regulations not be
made by the legislatures of said nations respectively, within two
years from the ratification of this treaty, then the said sum of
three hundred thousand dollars shall cease to be held in trust
for the said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, and be held for
the use and benefit of such of said persons of African descent
as the United States shall remove from said territory in such
manner as the United States shall deem proper-the United
States agreeing, within ninety days from the expiration of the
said two years, to remove from said nations all such persons of
African descent as may be willing to remove, those remaining
or returning after having been removed from said nations to
have no benefit of said sum of three hundred thousand dollars
or any part thereof, but shall be upon the same footing as other
citizens of the United States in the said nations."
The Choctaws and Chickasaws further agreed in the same
treaty (Art. 4) that "all negroes not otherwise disqualified or
disabled shall be competent witnesses in all civil and crimihal
suits and proceedings in the Choctaw and Chickasaw courts,
any law to the contrary notwithstanding; and they fully recognize the right of the freedmen to a fair renumeration on reasonable and equitable contracts for their labor, which the law should
aid them to enforce. And they agree, on the part of their respective nations, that all laws shall be equal in their operation
upon the Choctaws, Chickasaws and negroes, and that no distinction affecting the latter shall at any time be made, and that
they shall be treated with kindness and be protected against
injury; and they further agree that while the said freedmen,
now in the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, remain in said
nations, respectively; they shall be entitled to as much land as
they may cultivate for the support of themselves and famies,
in cases where they do not support themselves and families by
hiring, not interfering with existing improvements without the
consent of the occupant, it being understood that in the event
of the making of the laws, rules and regulations aforesaid the
forty acres aforesid shall stand in place of the land cultivated
as last aforesaid."
By Articles 30 and 43 it was provided:

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

529

Opinion of the Court.

(IART. 30. The Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations will receive
into their respective districts east of the 98th degree of west
longitude, in the proportion of one fourth in the Chickasaw and
three fourths in the Choctaw Kati6n, civilized Indians from the
tribes known by the general name of the Kansas Indians, being
Indians to the north of the Indian Territory, not exceeding ten
thousand in number, who shall have in the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, respectively, the same rights as the Choctaws and
Chickasaws, of whom they shall be the fellow citizens, governed
by the same laws, and enjoying the same privileges, with the
exception of the right to participate in the Choctaw and Chickasaw annuitids and other moneys, and in the public domain,
should the same or the proceeds thereof be divided per capita
among said Choctaws and Chickasaws, and among others the
right to select land as herein provided for Choctaws and Chickasaws, after the expiration of the ninety days during which the
selections of land are to be made as aforesaid by said Choctaws
and Chickasaws; and the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations
pledge themselves to treat the said Kansas Indians in all respects with kindness and forbearance, aiding them in good faith
to establish themselves in their new homes, and to respect all
their customs and usages not inconsistent with the constitution
and laws of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations respectively.
In making selections after the advent of the Indians and the
actual occupancy of land in said nation, such occupancy shall
have the same effect in their behalf as the occupancies of Choctaws and Chickasaws; and after the said Choctaws and Chickasaws have made their selections as aforesaid, the said persons
of African descent mentioned in the third article of the treaty
shall make their selections as therein provided, in the event of
the making of the laws, rules and regulations aforesaid, after
the expiration of ninety days from the date at which the Kansas
Indians are to make their selections as therein provided, and the
actual occupancy of such persons of African descent shall have
the same effect in their behalf as the occupancies of the Choctaws and Chickasaws."
"ART. 43. The United States promise and agree that no white
person, except officers, agents and employ~s of the Government,
VOL. oLxxIx-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and of any internal improvement company, or persons traveling
through, or temporarily sojourning in, the said nations, or
either of them, shall be permitted to go into said te rny, unless formnally incorporated and naturalized by the joint action
of the authorities of both nations into ohe of the said nations
of Choctaws and Chickasaws, according to their laws, customs
or usages; but this article is not to be construed to affect parties
heretofore adopted, or to prevent the employment temporarily
of white persons who are teachers, mechanics or skilled in agriculture, or to prevent the legislative authorities of the respective nations from authorizing such works of internal improvement as they deem essential to the welfare and prosperity of
the community, or be taken to interfere with, or invalidate, any
been had, in this connection, by
action which has heretofore
'
either of the said nations.
By Article 46 it was provided: "Of the moneys stipulated
to be paid to the Choctaws and Chickasaws under this treaty
for the cession of the Leased District, and the admission of the
Kansas Indians among them, the sum of one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars shall be advanced and paid to the Choctaws,
and fifty thousand dollars to the Chickasaws, through their
respective treasurers, as soon as practicable after the ratification of this treaty, to be repaid out of said money or any other
moneys of said nations in the hands of the United States; the
residue, not affected by any provision of this treaty, to remain
in the Treasury of the United States at an annual interest of
not less than five per cent, no part of which shall be paid out
as annuity, but shall be annually paid to the treasurer of said
nations, respectively, to be regularly and judiciously applied,
under the direction of their respective legislative councils, to
the support of their government, the purposes of education, and
such other objects as may be best calculated to promote and
advance the welfare and happiness of said nations and their
people respectively."
"ART. 51. It is further agreed that all treaties and parts of
treaties inconsistent herewith be, and the same are hereby, declared null and void." 14 Stat. 769-781.
It is unnecessary to refer to any other provisions of the treaty

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

531

Opinion of the Court.

of April 28, 1866; for none of them throw any light on the
present inquiry.
The lands in dispute-being tract 5 and marked Wichitas on
the above map-constitute a part of the Leased District which
was ceded to the United States by the third section of the treaty
of 1866. That is admitted. Did that treaty make an absolute,
unconditional cession to the United States of these lands, free
of any trust, express or implied? Or, stating the question in
another form, is it consistent with that treaty to hold, as the
court below did, that the lands were ceded to the United States
in trust that the lands themselves, or, if they were appropriated
or taken by'the United States, their value, should be paid to
the Indians whenever they ceased to be used excluaively for
the settlement of Indians thereon?
There was much discussion at the bar as to the principles
that should govern the court when determining the scope and
effect of a treaty between the United States and Indian tribes.
All agree that as a general rple in the interpretation of written
instruments the intention of the parties must control, and that
such intention is to be gathered from the words used-the words
being interpreted, not literally nor loosely, but according to
their ordinary signification. If the words be clear and explicit,
leaving no room to doubt what the parties intended, they must
be interpreted according to their natural and ordinary significance. If the words are ambiguous, then resort may be had
to such evidence, written or oral, as will disclose the circumstances attending the execution of the instrument and place
the court in the situation in which the parties stood when they
signed the writing to be interpreted.
To what extent, if at all, have these rules been enlarged or
modified when the instrument to be interpreted is a treaty
between the United States and Indian tribes? In The Kan ma
)ndians, 5 Wall. 737, 760, it was said that enlarged rules of
construction have been adopted in reference to Indian treaties,
citing as the words of Chief Justice Marshall in Worcester v.
Georgia,6 Pet.515, 563, 582 (but which were in fact the words
of Mr. Justice McLean in his concurring opinion in that case),
the following: '. The language used in treaties with the Indians

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

should never be construed to their prejudice. If words be made
use of which are susceptible of a more extended meaning than
their plain import, as connected with the tenor of the treaty,
they should be considered as used only in the latter sense."
Mr. Justice McLean further said: "How the words of the
treaty were understood by this unlettered people, rather than
their critical meaning, should form the rule of construction."
In Uiited Stato v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383, 384, the Indian

tribes in this country are spoken of as wards of the Nation,
communities dependent for their food and their political rights,
as well as for protection, on the United States. And in Choctaw Nation v. United State, 119 U. S. 1, 28, it was said that
the relation between the United States and the Indian tribes
was that of superior and inferior, and that the rules to be applied in the case then before the court were those that govern
public treaties, which, even in case of controversies between
nations equally independent, were not to be interpreted as rigidly as documents between private persons governed by a system of technical law, "but in the light of the larger reason and
the superior justice that constitute the spirit of the law of nations." In Jones v. .I eehan, 175 U. S. 1, 11, it was said that a
treaty between the United States and an Indian tribe must be
construed, not according to the technical meaning of its words
to learned lawyers, but in the sense in which they would naturally be understood by the Indians.
But in no case has it been adjudged that the courts could by
mere interpretation or in deference to its view as to what was
right under all the circumstances, incorporate into an Indian
treaty something that was inconsistent with the clear import
of its words. It has never been held that the obvious, palpable
meaning of the words of an Indian treaty may be disregarded
because, in the opinion of the court, that meaning may in a
particular transaction work what it would regard as injustice
to the Indians. That would be an intrusion upon the domain
committed by the Constitution to the political departments of
the Government. Congress did not intend, when passing the
act under which this litigation was inaugurated, to invest the
Court of Claims or this court with authority to determine

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

533

Opinion of the Court.

whether the United States had, in its treaty with the Indians,
violated the principles of fair dealing. What was said in The
Amiable Isabella, 6 Wheat. 1, 71, 72, is evidently applicable to
treaties with Indians. Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the court,
said: "In the first place, this court does not possess any treatymaking power. That power belongs by the Constitution to
another department of the Government, and to alter, amend or
add to any treaty by inserting any clause, whether small or
great, important or trivial, would be on our part an usurpation
of power and not an exercise of judicial functions. It would
be to make, and not to construe a treaty. Neither can this
court supply a causU omissus in a treaty, any more than in a
law. We are to find out the intention of the parties by just
rules of interpretation applied to the subject-matter; and, having found that, our duty is to follow it as far as it goes and to
stop where that stops - whatever may be the imperfections or
difficulties which it leaves behind:

.

.

.

In the next place,

this court is bound to give effect to the stipulations of the treaty
in the manner and to the extent which the parties have declared, and not otherwise. We are not at liberty to dispense
with any of the conditions or requirements of the treaty, or to
take away any qualification or integral part of any stipulation,
upon any notion of equity or general convenience, or substantial justice. The terms which the parties have chosen to fix,
the forms which they have prescribed, and the circumstances
under which they are to have operation, rest in the exclusive
discretion of the contracting parties, and whether they belong
to the essence or the modal part of the treaty, equally give the
rule to the judicial tribunals."
So in Beeoher.v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 525, which involved
the question whether the fee to certain lands was in the United
States, with the right of occupancy only in certain Indians, this
court said: "It is to be presumed that in this matter the United
States would be governed by such considerations .of justice as
would control a Christian people in their treatment of an ignaorant and dependent race. Be that as it may, the propriety or
justice of their action towards the Indians with respect to their
lands is a question of governmental policy, and is not a matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

open to discussion in a controversy between third parties, neither
of whom derives title from the Indians. The right of the United
States to dispose of the fee of lands occupied by them has always been recognized by this court from the foundation of the
Government."
The same principle was announced in United States v. Old
Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, 468. That suit was brought under an
act of Congress authorizing the Court of Claims to pass upon
a claim preferred by an Indian tribe, the intention of Congress,
as stated in the act, being "to allow the said Court of Claims
unrestricted latitude in adjusting and determining the said
claim, so that the rights, legal and equitable, both of the United
States and of said Indians, may be fully considered and determined." In that case it was sought to have the claimants relieved of certain provisions of a treaty, because of fraud and
duress alleged to have. been practised by the United States.
But this court said: "There is nothing in the jurisdictional act
of February 25, 1889, inconsistent with'the treaty of 1846, (or
any other,) and nothing to indicate that Congress attempted by
that act to authorize the courts to proceed in disregard thereof.
Unquestionably a treaty may be modified or abrogated by an
act of Congress, but the power to make and unmake is essentially political and not judicial, and the presumption is wholly
inadmissible that Congress sought in this instance to submit the
good faith of its own action or the action of the Government
to judicial decision, by authorizing the stipulations in question
to be overthrown upon an inquiry of the character suggested,
and the act does not in the least degree justify any such inference."
In the jurisdictional act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 876, 898,
c. 188, Congress authorized suit to be brought in the Court of
Claims, so that the rights, legal and equitable, of the United
States and of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, and the
Wicliita and Affiliated Bands of Indians in the premises "shall
be fully considered and determined, and to try and determine
all questions that may arise on behalf of either party "-taking
care, however, to add that nothing in the act "shall be accepted
or. construed as a confession that the United States admit that

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

535

'Opinion of the Court.

the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations have any claim to or interest in said lands or any part thereof." It is thus clear
that the Court of Claims was without authority to determine
the rights of parties upon the ground of mere justice or fairness,
much less, under the guise of interpretation, to depart from the
plain import of the words of the treaty. Its duty was to ascertain the intent of the parties according to the established rules
for the interpretation of treaties. Those rules, it is true, permit
the relations between Indians and the United States to be taken
into consideration. But if the words used in the treaty of 1866,
reasonably interpreted, import beyond question an absolute,
unconditional cession of the lands in question to the United
States free from any trust, then the court cannot amend the
treaty or refuse to carry out the intent of the parties, as gathered
from the words used, merely because one party to it held the
relation of an inferior and was politically dependent upon the
other, or because in the judgment of the court the Indians may
have been overreached. To hold otherwise would be practically to recognize an authority in the courts not only to reform
or correct treaties, but to determine questions of mere policy
in the treatment of the Indians which it is the function alone
of the legislative branch of the Government to determine.
It is said in the present case that the interpretation of the
treaty in accordance with the views of the United States would
put the Government in the attitude of having acquired lands
from the Indians at a price far below their real value. Even if
this were true it would not authorize the court in determining
the legal rights of the parties to proceed otherwise than according to the established principles of interpretation, and out of a
supposed wrong to one party evolve a construction not consistent with the clear import of the words of the treaty. If the
treaty of 1866, according to its tenor and obvious import, did
injustice to the Choctaws and Chickasaws, the remedy is with
the political department of the Government. As there is no
ground to contend in this case that that.treaty, if interpreted
according to the views of the Government, was one beyond the
power of the parties to make, it is clear that even if the United
States did not deal generously with the Choctaws and Chicka-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

saws in respect of the lands in dispute-and we do not mean to
say that there is any ground whatever for so contending-the
wrong done must be repaired by Congress, and cannot be remedied by the courts without usurping authority that does not
belong to them.
Looking now at the treaty of 1866, we are unable to concur
in the interpretation placed upon it by the Court of Claims. In
our opinion its words plainly and obviously import a cession to
the United States of the territory constituting the Leased District unaccompanied by any condition in the nature of a trust,
express or implied, except that the money to be paid by the
United States in consideration of the cession was to be invested
and held by the United States "in trust" for certain specified
objects. The declaration of a trust touching the money, and
the failure to accompany the cession of .the lands with any declaration of a trust in respect to them, manifestly shows that
there was an intention to pass to the United States an absolute
title to the lands and to abrogate the existing lease. The words
in Article 3 of the treaty, "the Choctaws and Chickasaws, in
consideration of the sum of three hundred thousand dollars,
hereby cede to the United States the territorywest of the 980 of
west longitude known as the -LeasedDistrict," and the words
in Article 46, "of the moneys stipulated to be paid to the Choctaws and Chickasaws under this treaty for the cession of the
Leased District," so clearly exclude the idea of trust in reference to the lands, that a different meaning cannot be attached
to them without doing violence to the words used by the parties.
It cannot be doubted, as we have heretofore said, that during
the negotiations resulting in the treaty of 1866 the parties well
knew that the territory constituting the Leased District was
held by the United States, not absolutely or in fee, but under
lease, for the permanent settlement thereon of the Wichita and
certain other tribes or bands of Indians. The treaty of 1855
shows that upon its face. Now there is nothing whatever in
the treaty of 1866 that evinces a purpose to preserve the relations of lessor and lessee in respect to the lands constituting the
Leased District. On the contrary, the relations of the parties
having been disturbed or destroyed by the Civil War, there was

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

537

Opinion of the Court.

a manifest purpose not to renew and continue the relations of
lessor and lessee, but to have the territory in question ceded absolutely to the United States.
It is said that the treaty of 1866, if interpreted in the light
of what occurred at the Fort Smith council held in September,
1865, shows that the parties expected and intended that the
lands ceded should be accompanied with a trust in reference to
the use of the Leased District for the settlement of Indians.
We cannot assent to this view. The persons at that council
who represented the United States stated that the new Indian
treaties to be made must contain certain stipulations. But no
one of those stipulations had specific reference to the lands constituting the Leased District. It is true that of the stipulations
mentionel by Commissioner Cooley at the Fort Smith council,
the fifth declared that "a portion of the lands hitherto owned
and occupied by you [the Indians] must be set apart for the
friendly tribes now in Kansas-and elsewhere, on such terms as
may be agreed upon by the parties and approved by the Government, or such as may be fixed by the Government;" and
that by the seventh it was provided that "no white person
except officers, agents or employ6s of the Government, or of
any internal improvement authorized by the Government, will
be permitted to reside in the Territory unless formally adopted
into some tribe according to the usages of the band." But
those stipulations had no reference to the Leased District then
held by the United States mder the treaty of 1855 for the
permanent settlement of Indians. The reference in the fifth
and seventh proposed stipulations related, so far as the Choctaws and Chickasaws were concerned, to lands "owned and
occ.pied by them," that is to the territory, respectively, of the
Ohoctaws and Chickasaws east of the 98th degree of west longitude, which was controlled by them and in which their laws
and usages prevailed. Those nations did not then occupy the
Leased District, but did own and occupy lands east of that district, and in that territory their laws and usages controlled.
The treaty of 1866 contains no word or clause qualifying or
limiting the absolute cession made by Article 3 of the territory
constituting the Leased District. If the parties to it intended

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court

that the lands constituting that district should continue to be
held and used by the United States as they were then held and
used under the treaty of 1855-this is, under lease-the treaty
of 1866 would not have declared, without qualification, that the
Choctaws and Chickasaws "hereby cede" to the United States
the territory known as the Leased District, and omitted all words
that would, under the most liberal interpretation, either import
a continuation of the lease then existing or any trust connected
with the territory ceded. It is a fact not without significance
that one of the persons attesting the treaty of 1866 as a witness
was an eminent lawyer who was of counsel for the Choctaws
and Chickasaws during the negotiations at Washington resulting in that treaty. In the view we take of the matter, we cannot suppose that he advised the Indians that the treaty made
any other than an unconditional cession of the territory known
as the Leased District.
If the Indians intended, so far as they were concerned, to
pass an absolute, unincumbered title t'o the United States, it
would, we think, have been impossible to employ language more
appropriate to that object than is to be found in the treaty of
1866; Our convictions upon this point are so decided that we
feel'constrained to say that if some of the parties had not been
Indians it would never have occurred to any one that the cession
of territory made by that treaty was attended by conditions in
the nature of a trust. While the dependent character of the
Indians makes it the duty of the court to closely scrutinize the
provisions of the treaty and to interpret them "in the light of
the larger reason and the superior justice that constitute the
spirit of the law of nations," Ckoctaw 1'ation v. United States,
119 U. S. 1, 28, the court must take care, when using its power
to ascertain the intention of the parties, not to disregard the
obvious import of the words employed, and thereby, in effect,
determine questions of mere governmental policy. We may repeat, that if wrong was done to the Indians by the treaty of
1866, interpreted as we have indicated-and we are not to be
understood as expressing the opinion that they were not under
all the circumstances fairly dealt with-the wrong can be repaired by that branch of the Government having full power
over the subject.

UNIrED S'rATES ,.CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

539

Opinion of the Court.

It is said that the interpretation placed by us -upon the
Oboctaw-Chickasaw treaty of 1866 is inconsistent with that
placed by the United States upon the treaties made in the same
year with the Seminoles and the Creeks-all of which treaties
contemplated a new policy for the Indian country and for the
Indians. Let us see what are the facts in relation to those
treaties.
The preamble of the treaty with the Seminoles, (which was
concluded March 21, 1866, and proclaimed August 16, 1866, 14
Stat. 755,) recited: "Whereas existing treaties between the
United States and the Seminole Nation are insufficient to meet
their mutual necessities; and whereas the Seminole Nation made
a treaty with the so-called Confederate States, August 1, 1861,
whereby they threw off their allegiance to the United States,
and unsettled their treaty relations with the United States,-and
thereby incurred the liability of forfeiture of all lands and other
property held by grant or gift of the United States; and whereas
a treaty of peace and amity was entered into between the United
States and the Seminole and other tribes at Fort Smith, September 10, 1865, whereby the Seminoles revoked, cancelled and
repudiated the said treaty with the so-called Confederate States;
and whereas the United States, through its commissioners, in
said treaty of peace, promised to enter into treaty with the
Seminole Nation to arrange and settle all questions relating to
and growing out of said treaty with the so-called Confederate
States; and whereas the United States, in view of said treaty
of the Seminole Nation and the enemies of the Government of
the United States, and the consequent liabilities of said Seminole
Nation, and in view of its urgent necessities for more lands in
the Indian Territory, requires a cession by said Seminole Nation
of a part of its present reservation, and is willing to pay there-*
for a reasonable price, while at the same time providing new
and adequate lands for them." And by the 3d article of that
treaty it was provided: "In compliance with the desire of the
United Stata9 to locate oth-r Indiansand freedmen thereon, the
Seminoles cede and convey to the United States their entire
domain, being the tract of land ceded to the Seminole Indians
by the Creek Nation under the provision of article first, treaty

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States "withthe Creeks and Seminoles, made and
concluded at Washington, D. C., August 7, 1856.

In consid-

eration of said grant and cession of their lands, estimated at
2,169,080 acres, the United States agrees to pay said Seminole
Nation the sum of $325,362, said purchase being at the rate of
fifteen cents per acre. The United States having obtained by
grant'of the Creek Nation the westerly half of their lands,
hereby grant to the Seminole Nation the portion thereof hereafter described, which shall constitute the national domain of
the Seminole Indians."
The treaty concluded with the Creeks June 14, 1866, and
proclaimed August 11, 1866, 14 Stat..785, contained a preamble
similar to the one in the treaty with the Seminoles, and which,
in addition, stated that "the United States required of the
Creeks a portion of their land whereon to settle other Indians."
And by the 3d article of that treaty it was provided: "In
com/liance with the desire of the United States to locate other
Indiansandfreedmen thereon, the Creeks hereby cede and convey to the United States, to be sold to and used as homes for
such other civilized Indians as the United States may choose to
settle thereon, the, west half of their entire domain, to be
divided by a line running north and south; the eastern half of
said Creek Lands being retained by them shall, except as otherwise herein stipulated, be forever set apart as a home for said
Creek Nation; and in consideration of said cession of the west
half of their lands, estimated to contain 3,250,560 acres the
United States agree to pay the sum of thirty cents per acre,
amounting to $975,168, in the manner hereinafter provided."
By the Indian Appropriation Act of March 2, 1889, c. 412,
25 Stat. 980, 1004, the sum of $1,912,942.02 was appropriated
"to pay in full the Seminole Nation of Indians for all the right,
title, interest and claim which said nation of Indians may have
in and to certain lands ceded by Article 3" of the above treaty
with the Seminoles. And by an act approved March 1,1889,
c. 317,25 Stat. 759, 799, Congress appropriated $2,280,857.10
to pay the Creek Nation for the lands ceded by the treaty of
1866 with them-the agreement with those Indians which was
the basis of the above act reciting, among other things, that

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

541

Opinion of the Court.

the United States desired that "all of said ceded lands may be
entirely freed from any limitation in respect to the use and enjoyment thereof."
Now, it is argued that if the interpretation placed by the
United States upon the treaty of 1866 with the Choctaws and
Chickasaws is accepted the result will be that the General
Government has been more liberal towards the Seminoles and
Creeks than it has been with the Choctaws and Chickasaws.
But that cannot constitute a reason why the court should depart from the ordinary signification of the words used in the
treaty with the Choctaws and Chickasaws. If Congress chose
to adopt one course towards the Seminoles and Creeks, and a
different course towards the Choctaws and Chickasaws, it is
not for the judiciary to defeat the will of the legislative branch
of the Government by giving to an Indian treaty a meaning
not justified by its words.
Apart from this last view we find clauses in the treaties with
the Seminoles and Creeks which are not in the treaty with the
Choctaws and Chickasaws, and which throw light upon the refusal of the United States to make an appropriation to the latter tribes on account of the particular lands here in question.
In the treaties of 1866 with the Seminoles and Creeks, respectively, by which they ceded certain lands to the United States,
it is expressly stated that the cession was made "in compliance
with the desire of the United States to locate other Indians and
freedmen thereon." No such words are found in the treaty of
cession concluded with the Choctaws and Chickasaws. When
the United States concluded the treaty of 1866 with the Choctaws and Chickasaws it did not need a cession of the lands here
in question in order simply to locate Indians and freedmen on
them. It already had, by the treaty of 1855, a perpetual lease
of those lands for the settlement of Indians. What it needed,
perhaps what it required-at any rate, what it obtained-was
an unqualified cession of the territory, unaccompanied by any
declaration as to the use intended to be made of'it, or by any
words qualifying the absoluteness of the title passed to the
United States. It took an absolute cession, without any declaration as to the uses to which the territory ceded was to be devoted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be that other considerations than those referred to
caused the use of the words in the treaties with the Seminoles
and Creeks that are not to be found in the treaty with the Choctaws and Chickasaws. But in our judgment the words of the
treaty of 1866 with the Choctaws and Chickasaws so clearly
import a cession of title without limitation as to the uses to
which the ceded territory was to be devoted, that the claim of
those Indians can derive no support from. the transactions between the United States and the Seminoles and Creeks.
But the Choctaws and Chickasaws lay great stress on the following paragraph in section 15 of the Indian Appropriation Act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 989, 1025, c. 543: "And the sum of
$2,991,450 be, and the same is hereby, appropriated out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to pay the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations of Indians for all the right,
title, interest and claim which said nations of Indians may have
in and to certain lands now occupied by the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians under executive order; said lands lying south of
-the Canadian River, and now occupied by the said Cheyenne
and Arapahoe Indians, said lands have been ceded in trust by
Article 3 of the treaty between the United States and said
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations of Indians, which was concluded April 28,1866, and proclaimed on the 10th day of August
of the same year, and whereof there remains, after deducting
allotments as provided by said agreement, a residue ascertained
by survey to contain 2,393,160 acres; three fourths of this appropriation to be paid to such person or persons as are or shall
be duly authorized by the laws of said Choctaw Nation to receive the same, at such time and in such sums as directed and
required by the legislative authority of said Choctaw Nation,
and one fourth of this appropriation to be paid to such person
or persons as are or shall be duly authorized by the laws of
said Chickasaw Nation to receive the same, at such times and
in such sums as directed and required by the legislative authority of said Chickasaw Nation; this appropriation to be immediately available and to become operative upon the execution,
by the duly appointed delegates of shaid, respective nations
specially authorized thereto by law, of releases and convey-

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

543

Opinion of the Court.

ances to the United States of all the right, title, interest and
claim of said respective nations of Indians in and to said land
(not including Grier County, which is now in dispute), in manner and form satisfactoy to the President of the United States;
and said releases and conveyances, when fully executed .and delivered, shall operate to extinguish all claim of every kind and
character of said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations of Indians
in and to the tract of country to which said releases and conveyances shall apply."
It is argued that the words in the above paragraph, ".said
lands have been ceded in trust by Article 3 of the treaty between the United States and said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations of Indians, which was concluded April 28, 1866," must be
taken as an admission by the United States in 1891 that the
-cession made by the treaty of fB66 Was not intended to be absolute and unconditional, but in trust to be used for the settlement of Indians, upon the abandonment of which object by the
United States the ceded lands reverted to the Indians.
There would be force in this contention if it appeared that
the legislative and executive branches of the Government had
adhered to the declaration in the act of March 3, 1891. But
such is not the fact. For at the next session of Congress, President Harrison, by special message, dated February 18, 1892,
called attention to the above paragraph, and among other things
said: "If this section had been submitted to me as a separate
measure, especially during the closing hours of the session, I
should have disapproved it; but as the Congress was then in its
last hours a disapproval of the general Indian appropriation bill
of which it was. a part would have resulted in consequences so
far-reaching and disastrous that I felt it my duty to approve
the bill. But as a duty was devolved upon me by the section
quoted, viz.: the acceptance and approval of the conveyances
provided for, I have felt bound to look into the whole matter,
and in view of the facts which I shall presently mention, to
postpone any executive action until these facts could be submitted to Congress."
After referring to some matters that have no connection with
the inquiry as to the meaning of the treaty of 1886 with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Choctaws and Chickasaws, the President proceeded: "After a
somewhat careful examination of the question, I do not believe
that the lands for which this money is to be paid were, to quote
the language of section 15 of the Indian appropriation bill, already set out, Iceded in trust by Article 3 of the treaty between
the United States and said Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations of
Indians, which was concluded April 28, 1866,' etc. It is agreed
that the treaty contained no express limitation upon the uses to
which the United States might put the territory known as the
Leased District. The lands were ceded by terms sufficiently
comprehensive to have passed the full title of the Indians. The
limitation upon the use to which the Government might put
them is sought to be found in a provision of the treaty by which
the United States undertook to exclude white settlers, and in
the expressions found in the treaties-made at the same time with
the Creeks and other tribes of the purpose of the United States
to use the lands ceded by those tribes for the settlement of
friendly Indians. The stipulation as to the exclusion of white
settlers might well have reference solely to the national lands
retained by the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, and the reason
for the nonincorporation in the treaty with them of a statement
of the purpose of the Government in connection with the use of
the lands is well accounted for by the fact that as to these lands
the Government had already, under the treaty of 1855, secured
the right to use them perpetually for the settlement of friendly
Indians. This was not true as to the lands of the other tribes
referred to. The United States paid to the Choctaws and
Chickasaws $300,000, and the failure to insert the words that
are called words of limitation in this treaty points, I think,
clearly to the conclusion that the commissioners on the part of
the Government, and the Indians themselves, must have understood that this Government was acquiring something more than
a mere right to settle friendly Indians, which is already possessed, and something more than the mere release of the right
which the Choctaws and Chickasaws had under the treaty of
1855 to select locations on these lands if they chose. Undoubtedly it was the policy of this Government for the time to hold
these and the adjacent lands as Indian country, and many of

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

545

Opinion of the Court.

the expressions in the proclamations of my predecessors and in
the reports of the Indian Bureau and of the Secretary of the
Interior mean this and nothing more. This is quite different
from a conditional title which limits the grant to a particular
use and works a reinvestment of full title in the Indian grantors
when that use ceases. But those who hold most strictly that a
use for Indian purposes, where it is expressed, is a limitation of
title seem to agree that the United States might pass a fee absolute to other Inaian tribes in the land ceded for their occupancy. Certainly it was not intended that in settling friendly
Indians upon these lands the Government was to be restrained
in its policy of allotment and individual ownership. If, for an.
adequate consideration by treaty, the United States placed upon
these lands other Indian tribes, it was competent to give them
patents in fee for a certain and agreed reservation. This being
so, when the policy of allotment is put into force the compensation for the unused lands should certainly go to the occupying
tribe, which, in the case supposed, had paid a full consideration
for the whole reservation. It will hardly be contended that in
such case this Government should pay twice for the lands.
It is right also, I think, that Congress in dealing with this matter should have the whole question before it; for the declaration of Indian title contained in this item of appropriation extends to a very large body of land and will involve very large
future appropriations. The Choctaw and Chickasaw Leased
District, embracing the lands in the Indian Territory between,
the 98th and 100th degrees of west longitude and extending
north and south from the main Canadian River to the Red
River, including Greer County, contains, according to the public
surveys, 7,713,239 acres, or, excluding Greer County, 6,201,663
acres. This Leased District is occupied as follows: Greer
County, by white citizens of Texas, 1,511,576 acres. The United
States is now prosecuting a case in the courts to obtain a judicial declaration that this county is part of th6 Indian country.
If a decision should be rendered in its favor, the claim of the
Choctaws and Chickasaws to be paid for these lands at the rate
named in this appropriation would at once be presented. .
Under the treaty of 1855 the Choctaws and Chickasaws quitVOL. cLxxl-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed any supposed interest of theirs in the lands west of the
100th degree.. The boundary between the Louisiana purchase
and the Spanish- possessions by our treaty of 1819 with Spain
was, as to these lands, fixed upon the 100th degree of west
longitude. Our treaty with the Choctaws and Chickasaws,
made in 1820, extended their grant to the limit of our possessions. It follows, of course, that these lands were included
within the boundaries of the State of Texas when that State
was admitted into the Union, and the release'of the Choctaws
and Chickasaws, whatever it was worth, operated for the benefit of the State of Texas, and not of the United States. The
lands became public lands of that State. For the release of this
claim and for the lease of the lands west of the 98th degree the
Government of the United States paid the sum of $800,000.
In the calculations which have been made to arrive at the basis'
of the appropriations under discussion, no part of this sum is
treated as having been paid for the lease. I do not think that
this is just to the United States. It seems probable that a very
considerable part of this consideration must have related to the
leased lands, because these were the lands in which the Indian
title was recognized and the treaty gave to the United States a
permanent right of occupation by friendly Indians. The sum
of $300,000, paid under the treaty of 1866, is deducted, as I understand, in arriving-at the sum appropriated. It seems to me
that a considerable proportion of the sum of $800,000 previously
paid should have been deducted in the same manner. I have
felt it my duty to bring these matters to the attention of Congress for such action as may be thought advisable."
The president's message having been referred by the Senate
to its committee on Indian affairs, that committee made a report accompanied by the following resolution: " .Resolved, That
for reasons set forth in the report of the Committee on Indian
Affairs upon the President's message of February 18, 1892,
upon the appropriation of March 3, 1891, for payment to the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations for their interest in the Cheyenne and Arapahoe reservation in the Indian Territory, submitted with this resolution, it is the opinion of the Senate that
there is no sufficient reason for interference in the due execution

UNITED STATES v.CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

547

Opinion of the Court.

of the law referred to." Congr. Rec. 52d Cong. 1st Sess. vol. 23,
Pt. 5, p. 4093. The resolution was adopted, and one of similar
import was adopted by the house of Iepresentatives.
But on the 15th day of December, 1892, the Iouse of Representatives passed the following resolution: "Resolved by the
Senate and Iouse of Representatives, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be, and he is hereby, directed to retain and cover
back into the Treasury $48,800 of the appropriation made by
Congress to pay the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes of Indians
for their interest in lands of the Cheyenne and Arapahoe reservation, dated March 3, 1891, which amount has been ascertained,
by a recount of the allottees of said Cheyennes and Arapahoes
to be by that amount more than is due the said Choctaws and
Chickasaws upon the purchase and settlement for their said interest." The Senate amended that resolution by adding thereto
this proviso: " Provided,however, That neither the passage of
the original act of appropriation to pay the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes of Indians for their interest in the lands of the Cheyenne and Arapahoe reservation, dated March 3, 1891, nor of this
joint resolution shall be held inany way to commit the Governfent
to the Payment of anyfurther sum to the Choctaw and Chickasaw
India.sfor any alleged interestin the remainderof the lands situated in what is cammonly known andcalled the leased Dist'rict."
In this amendment the House concurred, and on January 18,
1893, the resolution as amended was approved by the President.
Congr. Ree.52d Cong. 2d Sess. vol. 24, Pt. 1, pp. 173, 379, 868; 27
Stat. 753.
Then followed the act of 1895, 28 Stat. 876, 898, c. 188, under
which the present suit was instituted, and which related to the
lands in the Leased District covered by the agreement of June 4,
1891, with the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians-the
lands in dispute. That act contained the proviso that nothing
in it "shall be accepted or construed as cconfession that the
United States admit that the Choctaw and Chickasaw N'tations
have any claim to or interest in said lends or any part thereof."
It thus appears that while the majority of the members of
the two Houses of Congress. at one time, were apparently of
the opinion that the cession made by the treaty of 1866 with

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the Choctaws and Chickasaws was incumbered with a trust
that the lands be used only for purposes connected with the
settlement of Indians, the Head of the Executive Department
of the Government in 1892 was of opinion that no such trust
existed or i as intended. Evidently, the legislative branch of
the Government, when it came to deal with the lands occupied
by the Wichita and A1ffilated Bands of Indians, under the treaty
of 1855, declined t' apply the rule adopted in the act of 1891
in reference to the lands in the Leased District occupied by the
Cheyennes and Arapahoes, and intended by the act of 1895 to
leave the whole question as to the legal and equitable rights of
the United States and of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations
in the lands now in dispute to be determined by the courts. In
other words, the rights of the parties are to be determined by
the rules established for the interpretation of such instruments
as the treaty of 1866, giving due i-eight to every fact proper to
be considered in ascertaining the intention of the parties. In
this view, we cannot hold that the above declaration in the act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 989, 1025, c. 543, that the cession
made by the treaty of 1866 was attended by a trust is sufficient
to defeat such interpretation of the treaty as is required by its
words when reasonably interpreted or interpreted in the sense
in which they were naturally understood by the Indians when
they assented to the treaty.
V. We come to the material questions arising upon the appeal of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians.
We have seen in the statement of the case that by the agreement of June 4, 1891, between the United States and the Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians (ratified by the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 876, 895, 896, 897, c. 188) the
latter ceded to the United States, without any reservation whatever, all their claim and title in and to the lands embraced in
tract 5 on the abo 'e diagram, known as the Wichita Reservation. That agreement shows that in addition to the allotment
of lands therein provided for, the Wichita and Affiliated Bands
insisted that further compensation, in money, should be made
to them by the United States for their possessory right in and
to the above lands in excess of that required for the allotments.

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

540

Opinion of the Court.

And it was agreed that the question "as to what sum of money,
if any, shall be paid to said Indians for such surplus lands"
should be submitted to Congress, its decision thereon ".to be
final and binding upon said Indians;" provided; if any sum. of
money was allowed by Congress for surplus lands, it should 'be
subject to a reductioii for each allotment of land that was taken
in excess of the one thousand and sixty at that price per -acre,
if any, that might be allowed by Congress. It Was further
stipulated in the agreement of 1891 "that there shall be reserved to said Indians the right to prefer against the United
States any and every claim that they may believe they have
the right to prefer, save and except any claim to the tract of
country described in the first article of this agreement "-the
tract numbered 5 and marked "Wichitas."
The relief asked by the Wichita and Affiliated Bands was
that the petition of the Choctaws and Chickasaws be dismissed;
and that it be decreed that they were entitled to the proceeds
of the sale of all the lands involved in this case, to be paid to
them from time to time after being deposited in the Treasury
as required by the act of 1895.
The Court of Claims having decided that the Choctaws and
Chickasaw& were entitled to such of the lands of the Wichita
Reservation as remained after making the allotments required
by the act.of 1895, the only relief given by the decree to the
Wichita and Affiliated Bands was toadjiidge that the members
of those tribes were each entitled to 160 acres of land out of
the lands in dispute, to be set apart for them by the United
States, having due regard to any improvements made thereon,
by them respectively, for their permanent settlement. Of this
decree the United States does not complain, but the Choctaws
and Chickasaws do complain Qf it so far as it assigned 160 acres
of land to each member of the Widhita and Affiliated Bands.
Under the views we have expressed, the Choctaws and Chickasaws have had no interest in the particular lands in dispute
since th6 absolute cession made by them to the United States
in the treaty of 1866. They have therefore no concern in the
questions that have arisen between the United States and the
Wichita and Affiliated Bands of Indians as to the disposition

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of those lands. And as the United States does not complain
of the decree in favor of the latter Indians, awarding to each
160 acres of land, the only question that remains to be considered arises on the appeal of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands,
namely, whether the court below erred in not decreeing those
Indians to be entitled to the proceeds of the sale of such of the
lands in question as may be left after making the allotments in
severalty required by the act of Congress.
The question last stated does not require any extended discussioii; indeed, we are relieved of the necessity of discussing it,
for the United States at the present hearing concedes that the
removal of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands from their former
habitations and their permanent settlement upon the Wichita
Reservation invested them with a full right of occupancy of the
lands in dispute and with all the incidents of such right, and
that each member of those tribes is now entitled to receive 160
acres in severalty, and "also the proceeds of the balance of the
land whenever such sales are made as authorized by the jurisdictional act." "If this were all," say the representatives of the
Government, "that the Wichita-and Affiliated Bands claimed,
•th6 United States would indorse the appeal of these Indians instead of opposing it." The Government itself suggests-and
we recognize its right under all the circumstances of this case
to ask-that the decree as to the Wichita and Affiliated Bands
be reversed and set aside and the cause remanded with directions that, in addition to the dismissal of the petition of the
Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, and ordering the allotment
of 160 acres of land in the Wichita Reservation to each member of those tribes, they have the benefit of the proceeds of the
sale of such lands in the Wichita Reservation as are not needed
for the purposes indicated in the act of Congress.
To what compensation are the Wichita and Affiliated Bands
entitled on account of the lands not needed for the allotments
required by the act of Congress? Upon this question this court
does not feel bound to express any opinion. The agreement of
1891 between the United States and the Indians shows that the
question of the amount of money, if any, to be paid to the Indians on account of the surplus lands was in dispute and was

UNITED STATES v. CHOCTAW &c. NATIONS.

551

Opinion of the Court.

left to the determination of Congress, whose action, it was
agreed, should be final and binding on the Indians; and then
by the act of Congress that question was referred to the Court
of Claims, with a right of appeal to this court. But Congress
did not indicate any rule for the guidance of the Court of
Claims in fixing the amount due the Indians. It only declared that the compensation allowed in the present suit should
not exceed one dollar and twenty-five cents per each acre of land
not required for the allotments in severalty. This implied that
in the judgment of Congress a less amount might suffice to
meet the legal and equitable rights of the Indians and the ends
of justice. For the purpose of fixing that compensation, should
the surplus lands be valued as of the date the Indians were located on the Reservation, or of the date the agreement of 1891
was ratified by Congress, or of the date when this suit was
brought, or of the date when the allotments are all made?
Upon these points the act of Congress is silent. The decree
in the present suit should declare that the Wichita and Affiliated Bands are entitled to compensation in money for such of
the lands as are not needed to meet the requirements of the
act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 894, 897, c. 188, leaving the
amount to be fixed upon such evidence as may be adduced by
the parties, but not, in any event, exceeding the limit prescribed by-Congress.
The United States insists that it should be made a condition
of any decree recognizing the right to compensation on account
of the surplug lands, that the Wichita and Affiliated Bands should
execute a release to the United States of all right, title, interest
and claim of every nature whatsoever in and to any lands within
the limits of the United States except those allotted to them.
This view cannot be adopted, because the pleadings do not inform the court of the existence of any claims of that kind;
indeed, the pleadipgs could not properly embrace any claim t&
lands, or to the proceeds of any lands, except those within the
Wichita Reservation. The court below could not make any
decree in reference to claiins that have not been referred to it
by Congress. It is manifest that while Article 6th of the agreement of 1891 between the United States and the Wichita and

OCTO3ER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Affiliated Bands, of Indians reserved the right of the latter to
prefer against the United States any and every claim they believed they had the right to make, the only suit authorized by
the jurisdictional act of 1895 was one that would determine
the claim of the Choctaws and Chickasaws of an interest in
the particulaZrlands here in dispute,and the claim of the Wichita and Affiliated Bands to be compensated in money for their
possessory right in such lands. No suit was authorized by that
act that would embrace any and every claim that the Wichita
and Affiliated Bands might elect to prefer against the United
States.
For the reasons given the decree must be reversed with directions to dismiss the petition of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Natiois, and to make a decree in behalf of the Wichita and
Affiliated Bands of Indians fixino the amount of compensation
to be made to them on account of such lands in. the Wichita
Reservation as are not needed in order to meet the requirements of the act of Congress of March 2, 1895, c. 188, and for
such further proceedings as may be consistent with law and with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.

WORKMAN v. NEW YORK CITY, MAYOR, ALDER-

MEN AND COMMONALTY
OERTIORA._RI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No.1.

Argued April 17,1899.-Decided December 24,1900.

In June, 1893, the Linda Park was moored to a dock at pier 48, East River,
New York City. While there she was struck and injured by the steam
fire-boat New Yorker, as it was running into the slip between piers 48 and
49, for the purpose of getting near another fire-boat then in the slip. Both
boats had been called to aid in extinguishing a fire in a warehouse near
the slip bulkhead. A libel was filed by Workman in the District Court
of the United States to recover for the damage obcasioned to his vessel

