OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S.

tiffs in error. Counsel in summing up to a jury' are under
some excitement, and may naturally make a remark or statement which is improper. But there is not on that account any
ground laid for setting aside a verdict where, as in this case,
the court held it Was improper, and the counsel withdrew and
apologized for it. Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486,
498. Under such circumstances it does seeni as if the exception were frivolous, and the court in stating its opinion to that
effect is not open to censure.
The error assigned that the court said the plaintiffs in error
were not charged with the murder of Coakley, when in fact the
bill contained, his name, has not been pressed, and we think
there is no merit in it. The court said that if charged in the
bill there was no evidence to support such charge. Certainly
no harm~was thereby done the plaintiffs in error.
Upon full consideration of all the objections urged by counsel for the plaintiffs in error, we think no ground appears for
granting a new trial: The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

dissented.

UNITED STATES v. MILLIKEN IMPRINTING COMPANY.
APPEAL FORM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 227.

Argued April 16, 17, 1906.-Decided April 30, 1906.

A corporation having a contract with the Government to imprint revenue
stamps received notice as to renewal which, among other things, stated
that no application for such contracts -would be considered from persons not. already having one; the corporation. applied for and obtained
a renewal and the contract when delivered contained no provision for
not giving contracts to persons not then engaged in imprinting stamps;

UNITED STATES v. MILLIKEN IMPRINTING CO. 169
202 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

during its life a similar contract was given to such a- person and the
corporation sued in the Court of Claims for reformation of its contract on
ground that the omission was mutual mistake and also for loss of profits
on business diverted to such person. The Court of Claims took jurisdiction and awarded damages. Held, by this court in reversing the
judgment on the merits:

While reformation of the contract is not an incident to an action at law; and
can only be granted in equity; under § 1 of the act of. March 3, 1887,
24 Stat. 505, the Court of Claims has jurisdiction to reform a contract,
and of the money claim under the contract as it should have been drawn.
On the evidence in this case there was no mutual mistake justifying the

reformation of the contract.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis A. Pradt, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the brief,
for the United States:
The Court of Claims was without jurisdiction in equity.
Harvey v. United States, 105 U. S. 679; Jones v. United States,
131 U. S. 1. Its jurisdiction in equity is derived from special
statutes. District b Columbia v: Barnes, 197 U. S. 146.
There was an entire failure of proof of mistake. The purpose of an action for reformation of a contract on the ground
of mistake is not to interpret the written contract, but to correct it so that it shall truly state the agreement of the parties.
And since in such an action the court is simply called upon to
declare the true and complete contract of the parties, which
the written contract, through mistake, does not fully set forth,
it is clear that the mistake alleged must be mutual. Alabama
Midland Ry. Co. v. Brown, 98 Alabama, 648; Pomeroy's Eq.
Jur. §§ 870, 1376; Maher v.. Hibernian Insurance Co:, 67
N. Y. 290.
The evidence of this mutual mistake must be clear and convincing-" the strongest possible." Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. § 850;
1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 152; Phanix Fire Ins. Co. v. Gurnee, 1
Paige Chancery Rep. 279;. Newton v. Holley, 6 Wisconsin, 604.
The mistake must be established beyond reasonable doubt.
Hearne v. Marine Ins. Co., 20 Wall. 490; Stockbridge Iron Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

202 U. S.

Hudson Iron Co., 102 Massachusetts, 49, Meade v. West Chester
Fire Ins. Co., 64 N., Y. 455; 1 Story's Eq. Jur., 13th-ed., 153.
At most, the proof shows only a one-sided mistake and this
is not ground for reforming a contract. Hearne v. Marine Ins.
Co., 20 Wall. 491.
Mr. Malcolm Lloyd, Jr., and Mr. David Milliken for appellee:
The Court of Claims has jurisdiction, in equity. South
Boston Iron Works v. United States, 34 C. Cl. 200; District of
Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S. 146.
A contract may be reformed and enforced as reformed, in
the same action. Harvey v. United States, 105 U. S. 671;
Avery v. Eq. Assn. Soc'y, 52 Hun, 392; Maher v. Ins. Co., 67
N. Y. 283; Jaye v. Ins. Co., 55 N. Y. 657; West v. Suda, 69
Connecticut, 60.
A bill or complaint which asks the rectification of a mistake
in a written contract and the enforcement of the instrument
as reformed states but one cause of action. Harvey v. United
States, 105 U. S. 671; Avery v. Ins. Co., 52 Hun, 392; Maher
v. Ins. Co., 67 N. Y. 283; Jaye v. Ins. Co., 55 N. Y. 657; West
v. Suda, 69 Connecticut, 60; Hutchinson, v. Ainsworth, 73
Colorado, 452; Franklin Ins. Co. v. McGea, 4 Greene (Iowa),
229; McClurg v. Phillips, 49 Missouri, 315; Mayer v.. Van
Cullam, 7 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 222; Pomeroy on Remedies, § 459.
The written application in connection with the proposal
and the acceptance of that application constitutes the contract between the parties. Hearne v. Ins. Co., 20 Wall. 488;
Equitable Ins. Co.. v. Hearne, 20 Wall. 494; Harvey v. United
States, 105 U. S. 671; Garfield v. United, States, 93 U. S. 242.
There was in the first written draft agreed upon by the
claimant and defendant, the contract between them. Palmer
v. Hartford Ins. Co., 54 Connecticut, 510. Where the agreement, as reduced to writing, omits terms or stipulations contrary to the common intention of 'the parties, the instrument
will be corrected or reformed, so as to make it conform to their
real intent. Hearne v. Marine Ins. Co., 20 Wall. 488; Hunt

UNITED STATES v. MILLIKEN IMPRINTING CO. 171
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. Rousmainer, 1 Pet. 1; Andrews V. Essex Ins. Co., 30 Mason,
10; Oliver v. Mutual Ins. Co., 2 Curtis, 277; Van Tuye v.
Ins. Co., 55 N. Y. 657; 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. § 849; 1 Story's
Eq. Jur. § 152.
The real question is;"not what the real instrument was intended to mean or how it was intended to operate, but what
it was intended to be. Tillis V. Smith, 108 Alabama, 264;
Connor v. Armstrong, 86 Alabama, 265; Midland R. R. Co.
v. Brown, 98 Alabama, 647; Parker v. Parker, 88 Alabama362.
The mistake is documentary and indisputable. This court
will not review the finding of the Court of Claims in this respect. United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214.
MR. JUSTICE

HoLMEs delivered the opinion. of. the court.

This is a petition praying for the reformation of a contract
and for damages for breach of the same as reformed. The
Court of Claims granted the prayer and made a decree for
damages, 40 C' Cl. 81, whereupon the United States appealed
to this court.
The contract is an elaborate and formal instrument, dated
June 19, 1899, under the seal of tle petitioner and executed
on behalf of the United States by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. It is unnecessary to state its terms. Members of
a partnership subsequently incorporated as the petitioner had
a contract of like sort expiring July 1, 1899. On or about
April 25, 1899, they received from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue the following communication bearing that
date:
"To contractors for imprinting stamps:
"In awarding contracts for imprinting stamps on checks,
drafts, and other instruments for the year commencing July
first, 1899, it has been determined to add the following provisions to contracts in addition to these now contained in the
existing contracts for imprinting stamps.
"Each contractor will be required to pay salaries aggregat-

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

ing thirty-four hundred dollars ($3,400) per annum for one
Government stamp agent and two counters, payable monthly.
"As compensation in full for imprinting stamps, the contractor shall charge all persons requiring the same the. sum of
eighty cents per thousand stamps imprinted, when imprinted
upon sheets containing five or more stamps, and one dollar
per thousand stamps when imprinted upon sheets containing
less than five stamps to the sheet. In order to secure absolute
uniformity in prices these charges shall be rigidly adhered to,
and any evasion or attempted evasion of the express terms
hereof shall be deemed a violation of the terms of the, contract
"No application for contract to imprint stamps for period
named will be considered from any person, firm, or corporation
not now engaged in imprinting stamps under contract with the
Government.
"Each application for contract .must be accompanied by the
,guarantee of at least two responsible persons, that in case contract is entered into and accepted, bond will be furnished in
he sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for the
faithful performance thereof.
"The Commissioner reserves the right to reject any or all
applications and to cancel any contract wherever and whenever it shall appear to the interests of the public and the
Government to do so.
"Applications will be received at the office of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, D. C., until 12 m.,
May 25, 1899, such applications to be carefully sealed and
marked 'Applications for contract for imprinting internal
revenue stamps' and addressed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
"G. W. WILSON,
Commissioner."
On May 25, 1899, the firm wrote to the Commissioner stating that they then had the privilege to imprint stamps, etc.,

UNITED STATES v. MILLIKEN IMPRINTING CO. 173
202 U. S.

Opinion. of the Court.

and "would most respectfully make application to you for a
contract to continue the same for the period of one year,
commencing July 1, 1899, and in accordance with yOur official
communication, dated April 25, 1899, we to pay salaries aggregating thirty-four hundred dollars for one Government
stamp agent and two counters, and to receive as compensation
for imprinting stamps the sum of eighty cents per thousand
when imprinted upon sheets containing five or more stamps
and one dollar per thousand when imprinted upon sheets containing 'less than five stamps per sheet.". They added that
they attached a guarantee to furnish the required bond and
referred to letters accompanying the original application.
This letter now is denominated -an acceptance of what is called
the offer of April 25, above set forth. The alleged mistake is
the omission, from 'the formal contract, of the paragraph in
that communication, to the effect that no application will be
considered from any person not now engaged in printing
stamps under contract with the Government, and the following one limiting the time for applying to May 25.. After May 25
an application was accepted from the American Imprinting
Company, a corporation not' engaged in imprinting 'stamps
under contract with the Government on April 25. The damages awarded were, the profi.ts which would have been made by.
the petitioner had it not lost the customers who went to the
corporation last named.
The Government objects at the outset that the Court of
Claims has no jurisdiction in equity, and that, although' the
petitioner's demand is for .money under a contract as it should
have been drawn, yet in this suit that demand is incident to
the reformation asked, which certainly is true. Reformation
is not an incident to an action at law, but can be granted only
in equity. When relief is granted also on the contract as reformed it means only that.the court of equity sees fit to go on
and finish the whole case. But we are of opinion that the
court was warranted in taking jurisdiction under a fairly
liberal interpretation of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, § 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

24 Stat. 505. That section gives the Court of Claims jurisdiction of "all claims founded . . . upon any contract,, expressed or implied, with the Government of the United States,
or for damages liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party would be
entitled to redress against the United States either in a court
of law, equity, or admiralty if the United States were suable."
A claim for money upon a contract,, which would be like a
right of action at common law but for the need of help from
equity to establish the contract, seems to us to fall within these
words, in their obvious, literal sense. District of Columbia v.
Barnes, 197 U. S. 146, 150, 152; South Boston Iron Works v.
United States, 34 C. Cl. 174, 200.
We come then to the merits. It is unnecessary to consider
whether the Court of Claims ought to have made the findings
of fact required in an ordinary case. We leave that question
where we find it. District of Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S'
r46, 150; Harvey v. United States, 105 U. S. 671, 691. For
we are of opinion that the United States was entitled to a
ruling as matter of law that there was no evidence which would
warrant a decree for the petitioner; and therefore it would
be a useless form to send the case back for findings to be made.
The petitioner's case depends on the assumption that the
communication of April 25 was an offer and that the letter.
of May 25 was an acceptance. But obviously this is a mistake. The former is a notice, not an offer. Its very first
words, "In awarding contracts," contemplate the necessity
of further action on the Commissioner's part. The clause
which it is said should have been inserted speaks of an "application' for contract," the right to reject applications Is
reserved in terms and directions are given for sending them
and as to the time Within which they will be receiv.ed. In like
manner the letter of May 25 purports to "make application
to you for a contract," and refers to recommendations, thus
showing that it was understood that the Commissioner might
ifefuse what was asked. No preliminary agreement was made

UNITED STATES v. MILLIKEN IMPRINTING CO. 175
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and there was no new contract until the instrument sought
to be reformed was signed. It is true that Milliken, the president of the petitioner in the court below, says that he was
informed by the Commissioner that his application was accepted and his-contract would be renewed. But he goes on tp
say that he then called on the chief'of the stamp division, was
informed by him that it had been decided that the,application
of any person who had a contract would be granted, and received blank copies of the contract to be executed, so that the
acceptance was contemporaneous with the delivery of the instrument informing the petitioner of the terms. There is no
room for the application of Harvey v. United States, 105 U. S.
671, and similar cases, upon which the petitioner relies. The
only effect of the testimony is to confirm by the conduct and
language of the parties the interpretation of the previous
communications, which does not need that confirmation to be
plain. It should not pass unmentioned that the communications were between the Commissioner and the firm, and therefore not even with the same person that brings the present
suit.
In strictness it is not necessary to go further. For the parol
testimony whicl4 we shall mention amounts to nothing, except
upon the footing that there was a preliminary written agreement. But it is proper to add that it is doubtful, at least,
whether the two letters bear the interpretation which the
petitioner now puts upon them. It is plain that not all the
paragraphs of the notice to contractors after the first were
provisions to be added to future contracts. That which follows the one in question-was on the face of it simply information as to what the applicants must do. The last paragraph,
fixing the time within which applications would be received,
also obviously was a self-protecting notice only, and although
the petitioner does set it up as properly a term of the agreement, the averment is only by way of make-weight to what
mainly is relied upon, and we hardly think that it needs discussion. The communication was a general form to instruct

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

.202 U. S.

and direct applicants for contracts. The most-natural meaning of the clause principally in question was simply to give
notice that applications from persons not already engaged in
imprinting stamps would not be considered and thereby to
limit the applications sent in. It is not natural to read it as
intended to contract the Government out of its right to employ new persons in case a need to do so should arise.
The petitioner's letter also in its most natural interpretation would confine the changes in the contract to the requirements concerning salaries and the rate of compensation. It is
true that it contains the general words, "and in accordance
with your official communication dated April 25, 1899," but it
goes on to show what it regards as the elements of that communication material to the contract by the following words.
It mentions salaries and the rate of compensation, nothing
else. The words quoted are not an independent clause but
they qualify the next phrase "we to pay salaries," etc. On
these two> letters, even if they had made a contract, which
they did not, the Government hardly could have been held to
the disputed terms. It may be mentioned further that Milliken testified that when he wrote that letter he did not consider
the clause in question to relate directly to the subject matter
of the contract, and although at a later date he stated that he
desired to modify his testimony, the . only intelligible modification, if it be called one, is that his testimony related to the
time when he wrote the letter, not to the time when he received
the contract to be signed.
After what we have said but a few words need be added with
regard to the parol evidence offered. Milliken says that when
he received the blanks he said to the chief of the stamp division that he presumed the only changes from the former contract were those contained in the letter of April 25, was answered, "That is all," and thereupon afterwards executed
the contract without reading it. If this were undisputed and
had conie from anyone authorized to bind the Government,
still, whatever effect, if any, it might have upon an undisclosed

UNITED STATES v. MILLIKEN IMPRINTING CO. 177
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

insertion, it would. afford no ground for complaint at an omission, especially an omission of the paragraph we have discussed. The answer was true in letter and spirit, and in no
degree warranted the inference that the blanks contained the
disputed clause. The petitioner executed those blanks without any ground whatever for assuming that they contained
anything which they did not, even if Milliken had been right
in what he says he supposed to be the import of the notice
of April 25.
Finally, there is not a particle of evidence that the contract was not drawn just as the United States, through its
representative, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, intended that it should be, and for' this reason again reformation must be denied. It is true that Milliken testifies that the
Secretary of the Treasury admitted to him that the contract
- with the American Imprinting Company was in violation of
the contract with the petitioner. But it is left doubtful, at
least, whether the Secretary knew anything about what contract was intended to be made. The act of March 3, 1899,
c. 424, 30 Stat. 1090, 1091; authorized the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury, to procure certain stamps by contract, to be awarded
under such terms, restrictions, and regulations as might be
prescribed by the former with the approval of the latter. But
that it not sufficient to warrant an. assumption that the Secretary gave directions or had knowledge as to the intended
form of the contract. Moreover, so far as appears, the Secretary did not suggest or admit that there was any mistake
in the form of the instrument. It would seem that Milliken
exhibited to him the notice of April 25 as containing the Government's agreement, and that the Secretary fell in with Milliken's interpretation of the paper, but refused to do anything
until the Commissioner of Internal Revenue returned. For
all the reasons which we have stated, we are of opinion that
the United States-is entitled to a decree as matter of law.
Decree reversed.
VOL. cci-12

