OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S.

So far as any defense is based upon the grant made by the
government of Spain in the year 1767, it involves no question of a Federal nature. Neither the validity.nor. construction of any treaty of the United States, nor the validity of the
grant, were challenged. Indeed, it may be observed that
during the progress of the case in the several state courts no
appeal was made to the Federal Constittion, or to any acts
of Congress save the one providing for the removal of cases
from state to Federal courts.
It is apparent that the only Federal question which was
presented, to wit, the right of removal,, was correctly decided,
and, therefore, the judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.

McDONALD, RECEIVER, v. DEWEY.
DEWEY v. McDONALD, RECEIVER.
APPEAL AND CROSS APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 220, 530. Argued April 11. 12,' 1906.-Decided May 28. i906.
An officer of 'a national bank owning stock therein knowing that it was
insolvent, although it did not actually fail for two years after the first
transfer, transferred stock at various times to one who merely acted as
his agent and who absolutely transferred a part thereof to various people
of doubtful financial responsibility, all transfers being forthwith made
on the books of the bank; after the failure an assessment was levied by
the comptroller and the receiver sued the original owner for the assessment on all of the shares originally owned by him. Held, that:
The gist.of the shareholders' liability is the fraud implied in selling with
notice of insolvency and with intent to evade the double liability imposed by § 5139, Rev. Stat.
The fact that the sale is made to an insolvent buyer is additional evidence
of fraudulent intent but not sufficient to constitute fraud unless as in
this case.with notice of the bank's insolvency.
While a shareholder selling with notice of the bank's insolvency may defend against a claim of double liability by showing that the vendee is

solvent, and the creditors therefore are not affected by the sale, the

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

burden of proof is on him to show such solvency, and that burden is not
sustained when, as in this case, it does not satisfactorily appear that a
decree for the amount of the assessment could have been collected by
ordinary process of law.
A shareholder. who has transferred his stock to a mere agent is liable for the
full amount of the assessment on the stock so transferred standing in
the agent's name at the time of the failure; but when he has absolutely
transferred stock prior to the failure with knowledge of the bank's insolvency to persons financially unable to respond to the assessment and
those transfers have been made on the books of the bank, be is liablo
-only for such amount of the assessment as may be necessary. to satisfy
creditors at the time of the transfer.

THE first of these cases was an appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, rendered in a case wherein John W.
McDonald, receiver of the First National Bank of Orleans,
Nebraska, was complainant, and Charles P. Dewey and others
were defendants, reversing a decree of the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Illihois, and remanding the case to that
court with directions to enter a decree against Dewey for his
full assessment on 25 shares of stock of the First National Bank,
and for interest thereon. The second case is a cross appeal by
Chauncey Dewey and his co-executor from the same decree.
Charles P. Dewey having died pending the litigation, the
suits were revived in the name of Chauncey Dewey and Charles
T. Killen, executors of his will.
The original was a bill in equity to enforce an assessment of
$86 a share on 105 shares of stock of the First National Bank
of Orleans, Neb., which failed on May 20, 1897. These shares,
having been originally owned by Charles P. Dewey, were sold
by him in December, 1894, and in January, 1895. Eighty
shares were duly transferred on the books of the bank within
a few weeks after the sale. The remaining twenty-five shares
had been previously transferred by Dewey to his agent, Frederick L. Jewett, who was admitted to be irresponsible, and
stood on the books of the bank in the name of Jewett, when
the bank went into the hands of a receiver, on May 20, 1897,
although they had been sold by Dewey. The bill alleged that
Hedlund, the original receiver (since superseded by McDonald,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

the present receiver), was appointed and took possession on
June 5, 1897, a fortnight after the failure of the bank; that on
September 14, 1897, the Comptroller levied an assessment of
$86 a share upon the capital stock; that on May 8, 1894,
Charles P. Dewey was the owner of 105 shares of stock, and
was registered as such; that the bank was then, and continuously remained, insolvent; that this insolvency was known to
Dewey, who on that day, May 8, assigned 95 of these shares
to the defendant Jewett, who was wholly irresponsible; that
the transfer was colorable only, and made for the sole purpose
of evading Dewey's: liability as a stockholder; that Jewett
thereafter, at various times, transferred 80 of the 95 shares to
the several other defendants, and that on January 3, 1895,
Dewey transferred his remaining 10 shares to Jewett, so that
the bank failed said 105 shares were registered on the books
of the bank in the names of the several transferees; that the
several transfers were made at a time when the bank was insolvent, and known by Dewey to be so, for the purpose of
evading liability for assessments, and to irresponsible persons.
The answer of Dewey contained a general denial of all material allegations, and set up that the transfers were outright
and for the par value of the stock; that he had sold all his
stock, and with the exception of the 25 shares, all transfers
had been made on the books of the bank prior to its suspension.
The Circuit Court found'that the sales of stock were all made
through Jewett, who acted merely as the agent of Dewey and
had no interest in the stock, but held it for Dewey in his name;
that the bank failed about two years and five months after the
sale by Dewey; that the bank was insolvent in December, 1894,.
and January, 1895, at the time Dewey sold the hundred and
five shares, and that Dewey, who was vice president of the bank
from 1892 to 1895, knew, or ought to have known, that fact;
that three certificates, aggregating twenty-five shares, were not
transferred on the books of the bank and still stood in the
name of Jewett when the bank suspended; that the claims of
the creditors of the bank, who were such when Dewey sold his

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Argument for the Receiver.

stock and remained such at the time of the failure, aggregated
$11,839.15, of which, however, only $2,787.97 remained unsatisfied, and that of this the ratable share of Dewey was $585.48,
for which sum a decree was rendered.
On appeal by the receiver to the Circuit Court of Appeals
the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed and a new decree
directed to be entered for the full amount of the assessment on
the twenty-fiVe shares standing in the name of Jewett at the
time of the failure; that as to the eighty shares there could be
no recovery, although the bank was insolvent at the time of
the sale of the stock, and was known to be insolvent, and the
transfer was made for the purpose of evading liability; but that
there could be no recovery without proof of the additional fact
that the several transferees were likewise insolvent; that as to
the twenty-five shares Dewey remained liable, as he had not
surrendered the certificate to the bank or given the officers
such data as to enable them to make such transfer on its books.
The case was remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions
to render a decree against Dewey for his full assessment on
twenty-five shares. From this decree both parties appealed
to this court.
Mr. Frank M. Hall, with whom Mr. Roscoe Pound and Mr.
E. E. Prussing were on the brief, for the receiver:
Upon proof of the insolvency of the bank at the time of the
assignment, knowledge 'thereof by Dewey at that time, and
that the purpose and intent of, the transfer was to escape his
liability upon the stock in an insolvent bank, a decree should
be rendered for the full assessment on 105 shares. Stuart v.
Hayden, 169 U. S. 1; Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S. 42; National
Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 632; Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S. 251.
Under a proper construction of the National Banking Act,
Dewey's estate should be held for the full assessment on 105
.shares, upon the facts found. The purpose of the statutory
provision as to sale of the stock is to permit sale of stock in a
solvent bank, not to permit evasion of liability upon stock in
VOL. cui-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the Receiver.

202 U. S.

a bank known to be insolvent, and the statute should be construed accordingly.
The word "transfer" in section 5139 means transfer in good
faith; that good faith, in this connection, means that good faith
which inheres in the ordinary sale of stocks and securities in the
usual course of business, and that a transfer made in view of
known insolvency, with a purpose of avoiding liability, is the
sort of transfer excluded.
The liability of a stockholder in a national bank is contractual in its nature. Richmond v. IrOns, 121 U. S. 27; Concord
-Nat. Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 365; Whitman v. Oxford Nat.
Bank, 176 U. S. 559, 565; Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1.
This court has held expressly that insolvency of a national
bank changes at once the relation between stockholders and
creditors. McDonald v. Williams, 174 U. S. 397.
The American rule as to the effect of transfers of stock in
an insolvent corporation upon statutory stockholder's liability,
is that such transfers will only divest the liability where made
-both in good faith and to solvent transferees, and that if made
for the purpose and with the intent of avoiding liability upon
the stock of a corporation known to be insolvent, the assignor
remains liable. See National Batik v. Case and Bowden v.
Johnson, supra.
The general rule is, undoubtedly, that a*stockholder may
freely transfer his shares to any person capable of acquiring
them and hus substitute the latter as a member of the corporation in his stead. This rule, however, which permits a transfer
of a liability, without the concurrence of those for whose benefit the lialgility exists, is anomalous, and rests upon special
reasons; which are the measure of its extent. National Carriage Co. 'F. Story Commercial Co., 111 California, 537.
The ordinary run of transfers made to avoid liability are,
for obvious reasons, made to insolvent or irresponsible transferees. Hence many text-writers and many courts have
coupled tfie two propositions-intent to avoid liability and insolvency of the transferees. But it does not follow from this

McDONALD" v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Argument for the Receiver.

not unnatural juxtaposition of these propositions that both

of these elements are essential in order to hold the transferrer,
and must co-exist with insolvency of the corporation before
he can be held liable. On the contrary, a detailed examination
of the long list of cases in which this question has been before
the courts of this country, will show these significant facts:
In' substantially every case in which courts have held that a
transfer of sthck would divest the liability, they have qualified
this statement by the proviso that the transfer must be in
good faith. Moss v. Oakley, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 265; Tucker v.
Gilman, 121 N. Y. 189; Rochester & Kettle Falls Land Co. V.
Raymond, 158 N. Y. 576; Middletown Bdnk v. Magill, 33 Connecticut, 28, 70; Aultman's Appeal, 98 Pa. St. 505, 517; Harpold v. Strobart, 46 Ohio St. 397, 406; Cole V. Adams, 19 Tex.
Civ. App. 507; Stewart v. Walla Walla Co., 1 Washington, 521.
In those cases in which intent to evade liability and insolvency
on the part of the transferees co-existed, the courts have uniformly insisted upon the former as the material and important
element. Scofield v. Twining, 127 Fed. Rep. 486; Ward v.
Joslin, 100 Fed. Rep. 676; Foster v. Lincoln, 79 Fed. Rep. 170;
Cox v. Montague, 78 Fed. Rep. 845; Miller v. Great Republic
Ins. Co., 50 Missouri, 55; Burt v. Real Estate Exchange, 175
Pa., St. 619. It has been held in many cases, by courts of high
authority, that there need not be both intent to escape liability
and insolvency of the transferees, but that one of these, coupled
with known insolvency of the corporation, is enough. These
cases are of two types, those which hold the original stockholder
liable upon proof of known insolvency of the corporation and
insolvency of the transferees, alone, without iegard to proof
of the intent' with which the transfer was mqde, and those
which hold him liable by reason of the knowA insolvency of
the corporation and intent to escape liability, "alone, without
regard to the financial condition of the transferecs. Cases of
the first type are: National CarriageCo. v. Story.jf& Isham Co.,
111 California, 537; Welch v. Sargegt, 127 California, 72.
Of course, a transfer to an insolvent with knowledge of in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Dewey et al.

202 U. S.

solvency of the corporation is in and of itself a fraud. Cases
like Anderson v. Philadelphia Warehouse Co., 111 U. S. 479,
where pledgees, seeking to protect their claims, put the stock
in the name of irresponsible trustees, are quite different. Such
a transaction is no fraud, since the pledgee is merely interested
to the extent of security.
Cases of the second type, holding that a transfer with knowledge of insolvency of the corporation, made for the purpose
and with the intent to escape the impending stockholder's
liability, will not divest such liability, without regard to the
financial status of the transferees, are: Marcy v. Clark, 17
Massachusetts, 330; McLaren v. Franciscus, 43 Missouri, 452;
Provident Savings Inst. v. Skating & Bathing Rink, 52 Missouri,
557; Stewart v. Printing & Publishing Co., 1 Washington,
521; Sykes v. Holloway, 81 Fed. Rep. 432.
The transfers being fraudulent and invalid when made, the
assignor remained liable down to the failure, and should be
held for the full amount of the assessment.
Mr. William B. Mcllvaine, with whom Mr. John P. Wilson
and Mr. Nathan G. Moore were on the brief, for Dewey et al.
The only question presented by the record in this case is
whether a sale of stock in a national bank, in operation as a
going concern, and made with actual or impdted knowledge of
the bank's insolvency, is under all circumstances voidable by
the receiver.
There, was no finding by the Circuit Court that the sale by
Dewey was made in bad faith to avoid liability as a stockholder. This was a contested proposition, and if appellant was
not satisfied with the court's ruling thereon, he should have
brought the matter to the attention of the Court of Appeals
in assignments of error. The Circuit Court expressly found
that there was no evidence tending to show any fraud upon the
creditors. This was equivalent to a finding that there was no
bad faith or fraudulent intent.
The receiver was evidently satisfied that the concurrence of

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Argument for Dewey et al.

the two facts, namely: the insolvency of !the bank and the
seller's knowledge thereof, was sufficient to charge Dewey with
liability, regardless of whether his sale'was made in good or in
bad faith.
A sale of stock in a going bank, with actual or imputed
knowledge of the in'solvency of the bank, can only be avoided
if it results in injury to creditors. Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S.
42; Brunswick 'Terminal Co. v. National Bank of Baltimore,
192 U. S. 386; Richmond v. 'Irons, 121 U. S. 27;- "Bdwden v.
Johnson,' 107 U. S. 251; Andrson v. Philadelphia:Warehouse
Co. i1 U. S,479; Robinson"v1.Southern Nat'l Bank, 180 U. S.
295; Sykes v. Holiloway, 81 Fed. Rep. 434; Clarke v. White, 12
Pet. 178; Ming V. Wool/olk,116 U. S. 599.
The 'record fails to establish' that Dewey knew' or ought to
have known of' the alleged "insolvency 'of the'bank 6i.that 'the
bank 'was solvent "at the time "of is transfers of stock. If
Dewey did not know of the alleged insolvency Of the bank, theni
his sale of the 80 shares out 'aid out, in good faith, 'dearly ielieved him from any further liability thereon. Earle v. Carson,
supra.
'V the
.
sp
s.
We are entitled to be heard in h c
judgmnent of the lower cour4 °without assigniments or cross
error. The Stephen'Mrgan,94 U. S. 599; "an'd'tlhat the judgmeht was right upon any ground disclosed by the record. , Ridof Pleading &.
ings v. Johnson, 128 U. S 22-218;' 3.Enhc
'
:....
Piacdice, 372. :
Insolvency is that condition of affairs in which a' merchant
or business man 'is unable to: medV ]hig' bliations as *they mature i'n tlhe usual course of, 'b sindss..An' act' 'f insolvency
takes place when' tlis condition is demonstrated and the person has actually failed to meet 'some of his obligations> ' Dodge
v. Marltin, '17 Fed. Rep. 660; BuchananV'.'Smith, 16 Wall. 277.
Alth6ugh the liabilities of*a cdrporation' nay' gieatly exceed
its asset; it is- not iisolvent'in'such sense that'its assets become altrust fuid-for pro rata distributidn' among its-'creditors,
so long 'as it continues'to be'a going concern, and conducts 'its

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Dewey et al.

202 U. S.

business in the ordinary way. Comfort v. McTeer, 7 Lea, 652,
660; Publishing Co. v. Wheel Co., 95 Tennessee, 634.
Insolvency expresses the inability of a party to pay his debts
as they becom6 due in the ordinary course of business. Toot
v. Martin, 13 Wall. 47.
Mere inadequacy of assets of a bank to pay its debts is not
insolvency; the true definition of insolvency is failure and consequent suspension of business. Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S. 42.
Dewey was liable in any event only for his pro rata share of
the debts of the bank existing at the time when he transferred
his stock and which remained unpaid at the time of the failure.
We contend that after a stockholder has sold his stock out
and out, and has had it transferred upon the books of the
bank, so as to give notice to the world that he is no longer connected with the bank, he should be relieved from liability for
debts incurred by the bank thereafter. The statute is susceptible of this construction. Lantry v. Wallace, 182 U. S. 536;
Waite v. Dawley, 94 U. S. 527; Cook on Stock and Stockholders,
1261.

If a creditor of a bank uses ordinary diligence, he can always
ascertain who the shareholders are before he extends credit to
the bank. If he does not use such ordinary diligence, and extends credit upon an indefinite idea that there are shareholders
who can be made to respond for his claim, can he subsequently
look to shareholders who had previously sold their stock out
and out by a bona fide transfer and had the sale registered on
the bank's books?
The exact question involved here has been decided by the
Supreme Court of Ohio, and upon a statute substantially similar to section 5151 of the National Banking Act. See Rev.
Stat. Ohio, § 3258; Peter v. Union Mfg. Co., 56 Ohio St. 181.
In another line of cases this court has held that only creditors
who may be presumed to have extended credit to a corporation
on the faith of an increase of stock or other stock liability, are
entitled to base claims thereon. See Coit v. Gold Amalgamating
Co., 119 U. S. 343; Bank of Ft. Madison v. Alden, 129 U. S.

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

372; Handley v. Stutz, 139 U. S. 417. See also Stufflebeam v.
De Lashmutt, 83 Fed. Rep. 449.
Stockholders will be assessed ratably only for debts existing
while they held the stock. Young v. Wemple, 36 Fed. Rep.
354.

Pledgees of stock may take stock in the name of an irresponsible party without in any way indicating that the stock is
held as collateral and for the express purpose of avoiding liability. Anderson v. PhiladelphiaWarehouse Co., 111 U. S. 479;
Rankin v. Fidelity Trust Co., 189 U. S. 242.
Mn.'JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Three sections of the National Bank Act, whic5 are printed
in the margin, 1 are pertinent in connection with the leading
questions involved in this case.

1SEc. 5139. The capital stock of each association shall be divided into
shares of one hundred dollars each, and be deemed personal property, and
transferable on the books of the association in such manner as may be
prescribed in the by-laws or articles of association. Every person becoming a shareholder by such transfer shall, in'proportion to his shares, succeed
to all the rights and liabilities of the prior holder of such shares; and no
change shall be made in the articles of association by which the rights,
remedies, or security of the existing creditors of the associati6n. shall be
impaired.
(The shares of this Nebraska bank were transferable only on the books
of the bank, in person or by attorney, on surrender of the certificate that
represented the shares .proposed to be transferred.)
SEc. 5210. The president and cashier of every national banking association shall cause to be kept at all times a full and correct list of the names
and residences of all the shareholders in the association, and the number of
shares held by each, in the office where its business is transacted. Such
list shall be subject to the inspection of all the shareholders and creditors
of the association, and the officers authorized to' assess taxes under state
authority, during business hours of each day in which business may be
legally transacted. A copy of such list, on the first Monday of July of each
year, verified by the oath of such president or cashier, shall be transmitted
to the Comptroller of the Currency.
SEC. 5151. The shareholders of every national banking association shall
be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for an-

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

That tle transfer of. stock in corporations, even when in failing circumstances, should not be unduly impeded, is essential
not only to the prosperity of such corporations and the value
of.their stock, but, to the interest of stockholderswho may desire for legitimate reasons to change their investments or to
raise money for debts incurred outside the business, of such
corporation. Bank.v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369, 377. At the same
time the frequency with which such transfers are made for the
purpose of evading, the double liability imposed by the National Banking Act, has given, rise to a large amount of,litigation turning upon their legality. In this connection certain
propositions have ,been laid down by so many courts and in so
many cases that they may be. regarded as fundamental principles of law applicable to all cases of this character.
(1) That, a party, who. by way. of .pledge or collateral security for a loan of. money, accepts stock of anational bank and
puts his name on the registry as owner, incurs an immediate
liability as a stockholder, and cannot relieve himself therefrom
by making . a clorable, transfe, of ,h.is stock to another .pcrson
for his own benefit, as was done by. the sale to Jewett in this
case. National Bank v. Case,. 99'U. S: 628; Marcy ,,v. Clark,
17 Massachusetts, 329; Nathaii v. Whitlock, 9 Paige, 152; Cook
on.Stockholders, §.263..
.
(2) The same result follows if the stockholder, knowing, or
'having good reason to know, the insolvency of the bank; colludes with an irresponsible, person'with design to substitute the
latter in his place, and thus escape individual liability, and
transfers, his stock to such person. 'It is' immaterial 'in such
case that he may be able to show a full,or partial consideration for the transfer as between himself and the transferee.
Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S. 251.
Upon'the other hand, in Whitney'v. Butler, 118' U. S. 655,
certain stockholders employed an auctioneer to sell their shares
other, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such association, to the
extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par. value thereof, in
addition, to the amount invested in such shares;.
. .

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at public auction. They were bidden in by a purchaser who
paid the auctioneer for them and received from him the certificate of stock with a power of attorney to transfer the same
in blank. The auctioneer paid the money to the original owner
of stock, but no formal transfer was made on the books of the
bank. Shortly,afterwards the bank became insolvent and went
into the hands of a receiver, who made an assessment upon the
original stockholders. We held that the responsibility of the
stockholders ceased upon the surrender of the certificate to
the bank, and the delivery to its president of a power of attorney to transfer the stock on the books of the bank. The
controlling considerations were the good faith of the stockholders in making the sale, believing the bank to be solvent, and
the fact that they had done all that they could reasonably be
expected to do to make a valid sale of the stock and a transfer
of the certificate on the stock register.
Under the English law a shareholder may transfer his shares
to an irresponsible party for a nominal consideration, though
the sole purpose of the transfer be to escape liability, provided
the transfer be out and out, and not merely colorable or collusive, with a secret trust attached. Under such circumstances
the person making the transfer is released from liability, both
as to corporate creditors and the other shareholders. Cook on
Stockholders, §266; 2 Morawetz on Private Corporations, §859.
The law is quite different in this country. At the same time
the original stockholder cannot be held liable, unless the bank
were practically insolvent at the time the transfer was made,
and its condition was known or ought to have been known to
the stockholder making the transfer. If the bank were in fact
solvent and able to pay its debts as they matured when the
transfer was made, the creditors having ample security in the
solvency of the bank, have no special interest in knowing who
the stockholders are, since their only recourse to them would
be in the remote contingency of the insolvency of the bank.
The transfcrrer can only be held liable if the bank be insolvent,
and such insolvency be known, or ought to have been knowu,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

to him from his relations to the bank, since the transfer is prima
facie valid, and shifts to the transferee the burden of the responsibility, which can be laid upon the original stockholder
only in case of bad faith, or evidence of a purpose to evade
liability.
This bad faith may be shown by the fact that the bank was
known to him to be insolvent; but notwithstanding this the
transfer would be valid if made to a person of known financial
responsibility, since the creditors could not suffer by the substitution of one solvent stockholder in place of another. The
Court of Appeals, however, went further and held that the
transfer would be valid unless made to an irresponsible person
unable to respond to an assessment, whose financial condition
was known, or ought to have been known, to him.
There is, no such limitation intimated in the case of Pauly
v. State Loan & Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606, which involved a
question as to the liability of a pledgee, but in which certain
rules -were stated, p. 619, as to the liability of shareholders,
one of 'which was "that if the real owner of the shares transfers them to another person, or causes them to be placed on
the books of the association in the name of another person,
with the intent simply to evade the responsibility imposed by
section 5151 on shareholders of national banfiking associations,
such owner may be treated, for the purposes of that section,
as a shareholder and liable as therein prescribed." The case,
however, is not directly in point.
The most pertinent in this connection is that of Stuart v.
Hayden, 169 U. S.1. In that case, Stuart, being an owner of
one hutidred shares of stock in a national bank, a director of
the bank, and a member of its finance committee, purchased
certain real property of Gruetter and Joers, and as a consideration assumed a mortgage debt, turned over his stock in the
bank as of the value of $18,000, delivered to them the certificate
of the shares and paid the balance of the agreed price in cash.
These certificates of stock were returned to the bank and new
certificates issued to Gruetter and Joers, to whom Stuart rep-

McDONALD v.DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

resented that the bank was in a solvent and prosperous condition. The Circuit Court found that such representation was
false to the knowledge of Stuart, and made for the purpose of
inducing them to purchase the stock, and of evading and escaping his liability as a shareholder for his assessment thereon.
Upon this state of facts Stuart was held liable to the receiver
as the holder and owner of these shares.
The principal inquiry was whether Stuart transferred his
stock to escape the liability imposed by the statute, his contention being that, if the transfer.were absolute and to persons who
were at the time solvent and able to' respond to an assessment
upon the shares, the motive with which the transfer was made
was of no consequence.
In answer to this it was said by Mr' Justice Harlan (pp. 7,-8):
"There is no case in which this court has held that the intent
with which the shareholder got rid of his stock was of no consequence; certainly, no case in which the intent was held to be
immaterial, when coupled with knowledge or reasonable belief
upon the part of the transferrer that the bank was insolvent or
in a failing condition.
"One who holds such shares-the bank *being at the time
insolvent-cannot escape the individual liability imposed by
the statute by transferring his stock with intent simply to avoid
that liability, knowing or having reason to believe, at the time
of the transfer on the books of the bank that it is insolvent or
about to fail. A transfer with such intent and under such circumstances, is a fraud upon the creditors of the bank, and may
be treated by the receiver as inoperative between the transferrer and himself, and the former held liable as a shareholder
without reference to the financial condition of the transferee."
The court found upon the facts (p. 14) "that Stuart, with
knowledge of the insolvency of the bank, or at all events with
such knowledge of the facts as reasonably justified the belief
that insolvency existed or was impending, sold and transferrea
his stock with the intent to escape indivridual liability, . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

and the bank having been in fact insolvent at the time of the
transfer of his stock-which fact is not disputed-he remained,
notwithstanding such transfer, and as between the receiver and
himself, a shareholder, subject to the individual liability imposed by section 5151." Although it was alleged in the bill
by the receiver that Gruetter and Joers were at the time of the
transfer pecuniarily irresponsible, there was no finding to that
effect, and in treating of the liability of Stuart no stress was
laid upon their financial condition, but the case was disposed
of as one of bad faith on Stuart's part in transferring the shares
at a time when he knew the bank to be insolvent. There is
certainly nothing in this case to justify the inference that the
receiver was bound in making out his case to establish the fact
that the transferee was insolvent, and was known to the stockholder to be so when he transferred his stock.
In Matteson v. Dent, 176 U. S. 521, the stockholder, while the
stock was yet owned by him and stood registered in his name,.
died intestate, and the stock was distributed to the widow and
heirs by decree of the Probate Court. Shortly thereafter the
bank became insolvent and the receiver brought suit against
the widow and children for an assessment. The defendants
were held to be liable upon the ground that the obligation of
a subscriber of stock is contractual in its nature, and is not
extinguished by death, but, like any other contract obligation,
survives and is enforceable against the estate of the stockholder,
notwithstanding that the estate of the decedent had been settled and fully administered according to law, and that the insolvency of the bank occurred after the death of the intestate,
citing Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S.27. It is true that the case
did not involve the question here presented, but in delivering
the opinion the prior cases of National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S.
.628, and Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S.251, were cited in support of the proposition, treated as elementary, that "where a
transfer has been fraudulently or collusively made to avoid an
obligation to pay assessments, such transfer will be disregarded,
and the real owner be held liable." (p. 531).

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Much stress is laid, in the opinion of the Court of Appeals,
upon the case of Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S. 42, supposed to lend
countenance to the doctrine that the receiver is bound, as part
of his case, to establish the fact that the transferee was insolvent and known to the transferrer to be so at the time of the
transfer. The defense was that, prior to the suspension of the
bank, the defendant had in good faith sold the stock standing
in her name for the full market price, which had been paid her;
that she had delivered up to the bank her stock certificate,
with a power of attorney to make the transfer, and requested
that the stock be transferred; that the officer of the bank said
the transfer would be made, but it seems that the officer had
failed to discharge that duty; that as the defendant had done
everything which the law required her to do to secure the transfer, she had ceased to be a stockholder and was not responsible.
It was alleged as error that the trial court refused to instruct
the jury that the sale of the stock, though lawful in every
other respect, could not be so treated if it were found that at
the time of the sale the reserve of the bank were, to the knowl-edge of the defendant, below the limit fixed by law (p. 44).
This refusal was held not to be error. "Certainly," said Mr.
Justice White in the opinion (p. 46), "it cannot in reason be

said that the power would exist to sell stock like any other personal property if before, the power could be exercised the seller
must examine the affairs of the bank, marshal its assets and
liabilities in order to form an accurate judgment as to the precise condition of the bank."
In discussing the question in regard to the validity of the
transfer, it was said (p. 49) that "the exercise of the power to
transfer stock in a national bank is controlled by the rules of
good faith applicable to other contracts. The qualification
just stated gives no support to the proposition that where a
sale of stock in a national bank is made in good faith, nevertheless the consequences of the sale are avoided if subsequently
it developed that the bank was insolvent at the time of the

.transfer, in the sense that its assets were then unequal to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

discharge of its liabilities, when such fact was unknown to the
seller of the stock at the time of the sale."
The argument was made (p. 54) that as the "person to whom
the stock was sold was insolvent, and hence unable to respond
to the double liability, the sale was void, although the fact of
such insolvency of the buyer was unknown to the seller."
This was held to be unsound, "since it but insists that the validity of the sale of the stock is to be tested, not by the good
faith of the seller, but upon the unknown financial condition
of the buyer." We find nothing in this case.which impugns
-in any degree the authority of the prior cases, or holds that the
,validity of the sale is to be gauged by the financial condition
of the transferee, or the knowledge of that condition by the
transferrer.
1. We think it a proper deduction from the prior cases, and
such we hold to be the law, that the gist of the liability is the
fraud implied in selling, with notice of the insolvency of the
bank and with intent to evade the double liability imposed upon
the stockholder by the National Banking Act. In short, the
question of liability is largely determinable by the presence or,
absence of an intent to evade liability. The fact that the sale
was made. to an insolvent buyer is doubtless additional evidence
of the original fraudulent intent, but would not be in itself sufficient to constitute fraud. without notice of the insolvency of
the bank. The stockholder is not deprived of his right to sell
his stock by the fact that the sale is made to an insolvent person, unless it be made with knowledge of the insolvency of the
bank. This was practically the ruling in Earle v. Carson, in
which we held that a bona fide sale would'not be void, though
the vendee were insolvent, if the fact of such insolvency were
at the time unknown to the seller. The case of Earle v. Carson,
so far from lending countenance to the argument of the appellees, bears strongly in the opposite direction.
The solvency of the vendee, however, is pertinent in showing
that no damage could have resulted to the creditors of the bank
by the transfer. Though not a necessary part of the plaintiff's

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

case, it may be a complete defense, if it be shown that the sale,
however fraudulent, was made to a vendee who was as able
to respond to the double liability as was the vendor. The
proposition that the executors are not responsible because the
sales were made to solvent vendees, being defensive in its character, the burden of proof was upon them. In this particular
the case is not unlike that of an ordinary action upon a contract, where the plaintiff relies upon the contract and the
breach, and sues for such damages as may- be reasonably supposed to follow therefrom. But it may be shown in defense
that no damages really resulted, as, for instance, in-an action
for services, that plaintiff might have obtained other employment at the same wages, or, in an action for a failure to deliver goods, that plaintiff might have gone into the market and
purchased other goods at the same price at which the defendant
had agreed to sell them. In such case defendant assumes the
burden of proving that no damage in fact resulted. The argument in this case really is that the receiver was bound .to show,
not only* that Dewey w s guilty of fraud, but that damages
necessarily resulted and that he knew that fact. The reply is
that the fraud was consummated by the sale of the stock of a
bank known to be insolvent, with intent to evade liability, and
that the fraud is not less though the transfeiees happened to be
solvent, but that their solvency may be proved to rebut the
presumption that injury resulted to the creditors from the
transfers.
While there is no express finding of the Court of Appeals
(though there was in the Circuit Court) that Dewey knew, or
should have known, of the insolvency of the bank at the
time of the transfer, and that the transfer was made with the
intent to evade his double liability as stockholder, the decree
of both courts is based upon this assumption; and as stated
in the dissenting opinion" that the final suspension of the
bank, though it occurred two years and five months after
Dewey's transfer of stock, is traceable, in the line of cause and
effect, to the insolvency of the bank at the tim5 of the trans

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

fer." We do not understand these facts to be seriously disputed.
'In this connection it only remains to consider whether the
transferees wcre financially responsible to the amount of the
assessment. It is not necessary to show that they were persons of responsibility equal to that of the original stockholder.
It is sufficient that they were responsible to the amount called
for by the necessities of the case-in other words, in an amount
sufficient to indicate that the creditors of the bank were not
damnified by the change of ownership.
Although the evidence does not show affirmatively the insolvency of the ultimate transferees, it falls far short of showing that a decree against them for their assessment could be
collected. Without going into details of the property of each
one of the seven transferees, it is sufficient to say that they were
either working on salaries, with no evidence of available property, outside of such salaries, or that their property consisted
of incumbered real estate in Chicago of a largely speculative
value; ad1rhatJi.some cases, at least, the shares were paid for
o getting rid of the
in real estate Tonveye-d-frlhe pifWfl
propertyand avdin;g The payment of interest on the incumbrances. There is no satisfactory evidence that a decree
against any one of these parties for the amount of his
assessment could have been collected by ordinary process of
law.
2. But, except so far as the twenty-five shares held by Jewett
as the agent of Dewey at the time of the failure, we think the
executors should not be held liable to the creditors who became
such after the transfer. The National Banking Act requires
(Rev. Stat. § 5210) a list of the names and residences of all the
shareholders, and the number of shares held by each to be kept
in the banking house, subject to the inspection of all the shareholders and creditors of the association; and (see. 5139), that
every person becoming a shareholder by a transfer of shares to
himself shall succeeed to all the rights and liabilities of the l-rior
holder of such shares, and no change shall be made in the ar-

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

ticles of association by' which the rights, remedies or securities
of the existing credit6rs of the association shall 'be impaired.
The object of this legislation is"evideily't' apprise persons
dealing with the baik of the name' f the shaieholddrs, upon
whom the dbuble liability hall be imposed' in case of tlhe insolvency of. the'bank. 'In th eevent'of 'sue'hinslvency it is
onl" 'c1xistin-g creditors who 'can claim to have '5endamnified
by a frauduleh't transfer of' shares. As "'t t &thsuch 'transfl'i
is. voidable. 'Subsequent creditors are. apprise+ by' the published list of' the' names of the shreholders, to.h6m transfers
have ben iade, and 'of the persons to whoimi 'theynay' have
recouirs for the double hiability. The injustice of h6ding a
stockholder h1iable for an indefinitetirfe i 'the future toCreditormsuwho may have 'beco s
yei's aftr he'had' parte
with, histock, and wvho were apprmied bf the iiiais of the stockholders' by the'. pubished lis.
tio manifest' to reufireeAn extended 'commeht. "'We 're only, applying
this caseby analogy the
iu 6"the c6m6n 1law,
t a voluntary
heavily indebted is 'frfudulent and void as
y a
dee
to prior crediors. merely upon the, ground that he Was"so indebted, but as to subsequent'creditors isonly void upon evidence
in icontemplation
of'T future.
.'It jthat
', i the
,; deed
1, was
1.C . made
:+:
"
'_"
r
- -""?!f .-{'+
:
' . indebtedness. Sexton v. Wheaton, 8 Wheat.' 229';,Schreyer v.
Scott, 134 U. S. 405 Ridgeway v. Underwo6od, 4 Wash. G. C.
129, 137; Bennett y. Bedford Bank, 11 Massachusetts, 421.
This was the'intertprelthtibfi *n o- asimilar StatUte Db the
Supreinu COUI-t oo
lit
Pet.r v. UnioWt
Mfg.Co.', 56 Ohio S't.
11, 204 It'is tie tha itinOhio a stockiolder cannot escape
liablty to existing crellto's by a ti'aftsfer of hisstok ho'xever
bona fide such trailsfer may be. But4w d6 not'se'elow that
h os o
i i ii th:.,[ta
i 'il
lid tile
afCcets
ie ltr c~so, I ia ie oes n continue
liable as to future creditors. "
..
....
Thc case of Bowden v.Johnson, 107 U. S. 251 turned 'up6oh
the question of ,the' fraud'in a cqrtain transferi"'o'f
ost'6ck' the
conclusion beii- 'that such transfcr was frauduleint, and that
the original owiie'r cntiiided iable o'tthe
i creditrs of the bank.t
VOL. 0cii-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE,

MCKENNA and DAY, JJ., dissenting

202 U. S.

The question as to whether such liability was limited to existing creditors or extended to future creditors was not touched
upon in the opinion of the court, but as the insolvency of the
bank seems to have occurred soon after the fraudulent transfer
was made, it is improbable that any future creditors existed.
There are, undoubtedly, cases in which we have used the
general expression that in the event of a fraudulent transfer
of stock the stockholder remains liable to the creditors of the
bank, but in none of them were we called upon to discriminate
between existing and subsequent creditors, since as a rule the
-insolvency of the bank followed soon after the transfer, and
the distinction was not called to our attention by counsel.
It results that there must be a decree affirming the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals so far as it holds Dewey liable
for his full assessment on the twenty-five shares standing in
Jewett's name, and reversing in so far as it exonerated his estate from assessment upon the remaining shares, to such
amount as is necessary to satisfy the creditors existing at the
time the transfer of the stock was made, and that the cause be
remanded to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

KENNA and MR.

with whom concur MR.

JUSTICE DAY,

JUSTICE

Mc-

dissenting.

To make clear the reasons for my dissent I briefly recapitulate the facts, the issues and the matters decided.
As a result of the failure in May, 1897, of the First National
Bank of Orleans, Nebraska, the Comptroller appointed a receiver and subsequently levied an assessment of $86 a share
to make good a deficiency of assets required to enable the payment of the creditors of the bank existing at the date of the
failure.
In May, 1894, Dewey was the registered owner of 105 shares
of the stock of th -bank. In that month and year he assigned
95 of these shares to Jewett and they were transferred on the

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

WHITE, MCKENNA

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

stock register in the name of Jewett. Jewett then transferred
on the stock register 80 of these shares to six othei persons,
Jewett thus remaining the registered holder of but 15 out of
the 95 shares transferred to him by Dewey. Subsequently
Dewey transferred on the stock register the remaining 10 of
the original 105 shares to Jewett. At the time, therefore, of
the failure of the bank the 105 shares originally owned by
Dewey had been put out of his name and stood on the stock
register of the bank as follows: 25 shares in the name of
Jewett and 80 shares in various proportions in the names of
the six persons to whom Jewett had transferred them.
The object of the bill is to hold Dewey liable on the 105 shares
for the assessment levied by the Comptroller. Questions of
fact and of law are involved. The first are, At the time of the
failure of the bank did the 105 shares of stock stand in the name
of the agent of Dewey, or if not, did they stand in the name of
irresponsible persons to whom Dewey, with the knowledge of
the insolvency of the bank and to escape liability, transferred
the stock? And the question of law is, If the stock was still
Dewey's, or if it was transferred by him, as stated, is he liable
for the assessment or for any part thereof?
The court now determines, both questions of fact against
Dewey. In other words, the court holds that Dewey was the
owner of the 25 shares standing in the name of Jewett, because
Jewett received the transfer merely as the agent of Dewey and
never became the owner of the stock. As to the 80 shares
standing in the names of the six persons to whom Jewett
transferred them, the court holds that they were transferred
by Dewey to his agent Jewett with knowledge of the insolvency
and to avoid the statutory liability, and to carry out this
purpose were transferred by Jewett as his (Dewey's) agent,
into the names of six irresponsible persons. The questions of
fact being thus decided against Dewey, the proposition of law
is in substance decided in his favor. I say this because it is
now held that Dewey is not liable, except as to the 25 shares,
for the assessment of $86 a share to pay the debts of the bank

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE,

McKENNA and DAY, JJ., diaenting.

202 U. S.

existing at the time of the failure, but only for such proportion
essment as may. be 'required to iay such insatisfied
of such
debts df the bank, if any there be, Which were in existence at
the several' dates vhen the tiansfe'rs of the 8 'shar'es were made
by JeWetd as the agnt of DeiW'y.' '
My dissent is constrained by a dep "onviction'of the unsoundniess" of th6 proposition i ow upheld'exenipting Dew4ey
fron, liability,in-i'esp~ct'to the 80 'shares,-for the call made
by the' Comptr6l1er to pay the'debts 6f the bank existing at
the time of the failure' and th 'd~cision tl at he is only liable
f6r'siich suni as may bc'nedessary.to' pay the 'unsatisfied debts,
if any, which existd when the fraudulent transfer of the stock
was

inude.'

'

"'

As it is' given to n to see it, this ruling is both novel'and
dangerous aid without the sipport of any administrative or
judicia construction applied to the statute, sihce it' was' origiiially'enacted, 'more than forty' years ago. To me it moreover
seems that the .ulirg is repugnant both to the text and spirit
of the statute considered as an original question, aind's besides
contrary to a line of adjudications of this' and other Federal
curts2' My endeavor shall be briefly to state the reasons by
which I am led to this conclusion.
It cannot be denied that from the date of the original enactment'of the National Banking Act'in 1863 to the present time
the Comptroller of the Currency/in niaking an assessment under
the law to pay the debts of a failed national bank, has always
made such call upon the 'assumption that the stockholders who
were liable'for assessment were so liable 'ratably for the amount
required to pay the' debts of the bank existing at the time of
the failure. Such also is the case viewed from the standpoint
of judicial decisions, for, although in numerous cases in this
court and many cases in th lower Federal courts for years
and years, questions in every aspect have been considered
concerning the liability of a stockholder in a national bank
who, it was alleged, had transferred his stock in fraud of the
statute, no case can be found where even a suggestion was

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

WHITE, McKENNA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

made by counsel or bythe courts of the ex.istence of the rule
of limited liability which the court now ,upholds. In saying
this I do not overlook the fact that the court in its opinion'
refers to. an Ohio case Peter v.. ,UnionMfg. Co., 56 Ohio St.
181,,as sustaining the. doctrine which is now announced.
That case, however, did, not concern a national bank, but
related to ,an Ohio corporation, and, as I. shall hereafter endeavor. to demonstrate, rested solely upon the provisions of
the constitution and laws of 'the State of Ohio, which were
not only peculiar to that State, but were directly in conflict
with the principle of liability, expressed in the acts of Congress
concerning the responsibility of, stockholders in national banks.
Whilst of ,course the absenceduring such a long period of
time,. in administrative execution and judicial exposition, of
even a suggestion that the limitation of)liability now sustained
was, warranted by the statute is not conclusive, it certainly is
persuasive that if such a limitation can be evolved from the
law it must be occult and strained, since it has been latent and
undiscovered for forty years., But a consideration of the
statute it seems to me will at once make clear the fact that the
limitation.now sanctioned has never before been intimated,
because that limitation must have been considered to be repugnant to the text of the statute.
Both by the National Banking Act as originally adopted
in i863 and as reinacted in 1864, and as now embodied in
section 5139 of .the Revised Statutes, owners of stock in national banks were empowered totransfer that stock as personal
property. The purpose of Congress to render this transfer
effectual is evidenced by the omission in the rednactment in
1864 of a provision found in the ,act of 1863, which might have
had the effect of limiting transfers. Earle v. Carson, 188 U. S.
42, 46. And, following the plain text of the act, it has not been
questioned that creditors existing at the time a stockholder
made and completed a lawful transfer of his stock had no right
to complain or hold the outgoing stockholder for existing debts
of the bank, since by the statute the result of such a transfer

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, MCKENNA

and Day, JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

was to sever all connection between such stockholder and the
bank, wholly without reference to the consent of the then
existing creditors, and'to substitute the person to whom the
valid and completed transfer had been made. Now, whilst it
is true that the statute requires a registry of stockholders to be
kept and transfers to be noted thereon, in view of the unlimited
right of a stockholder. to make 'a lawful transfer without the
consent of the creditors existing at the time of the transfer,
it cannot be said that the statute gave to the creditors a right
toprevent transfers or presupposed that they would contract
with the bank upon the faith of a particular state of the registry,
when by the statute that registry could be changed by lawful
transfers without the power of the creditor to complain. It
is true also that the statute declares (Rev. Stat. §5139)
that when a lawful transfer is made the shareholder "shall
succeed to all the rights and liabilities of the prior holder of
such shares." But this does not imply that existing creditors
have a contract right against the transferring stockholder,
since the right of such stockholder to make a lawful transfer
and substitute another for himself without the consent of the
creditors is an affirmance instead of a negation of the absence
of the contract relation between the transferring stockholder
and then existing creditors. And this isemphasized, since the
new stockholder becomes ratably liable not only for debts
contracted after the transfer made to him but for all the prior
unsatisfied debts. Of course by the statute as originally
enacted and as now' existing (Rev. Stat. §5151), those who
were stockholders in a national bank at the time of its failure
are made equally and ratably liable to the amount of their
stock for the debts of the bank then existing. But this provision does not destroy or impair the right to make a lawful
transfer before the failure of a bank, since it only attaches the
double liability to those who have not made a lawful transfer
and who are in contemplation of law stockholders at the time
of the failure. Harmonizing these two sections of the statute,
they import the purpose to secure the great advantage result-

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

WHITE, McKENNA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

ing from the untrammelled power to make a lawful transfer
of stock as pointed out by this court in Earle v. Carson, supra,
and First National Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369, 377, and yet
at the same time when failure ensues to give the then existing
creditors the benefit of the .double liability of the then existing stockholders.
And when the repeated adjudications of this court are considered to me it seems that they expound the text and spirit
of the statute as above pointed out, and, therefore, the rule now
announced cannot be consistently upheld without overthrowing those decisions and substituting a new statute. In National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628 (decided in 1878), the principle controlling the question of the liability of a stockholder
in a national bank who had made a fraudulent disposition of
his stock was considered. On the one hand it was insisted
that as the stockholder had a right to transfer his stock without the consent of then existing creditors of the bank, every
"out and out" transfer, as it was termed, should be held to
be efficacious to relieve from liability at the date of the failure.
On the other hand it was contended that if a transfer was made
with a knowledge of the insolvency of the bank and to escape
the statutory liability, the stockholder remained a stockholder, and was, therefore, subject to the double liability.
The latter contention was sustained. The court recognized
the fact that in England, when a stockholder had a right to
dispose of his stock at pleasure, the rule was that every out
and out transfer which was not a mere sham severed the connection of the stockholder with the corporation, thus causing
him to be no longer a stockholder and leaving him entirely
free from liability. But the American rule was held to be
different. Expounding that rule, it was declared that both
in the case where a stockholder made a sham sale or transferred
his stock to an irresponsible person, with knowledge of the
insolvency of the bank, and for the purpose of escaping the
statutory liability, the transferrer remained a stockholder for
the purpose of the statutory double liability. In other words,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, McKENNA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

the court declared that in both such cases the transfer, in legal
intendment, at the election of creditors would be held to be a
mere simulation, leaving the stockholder, despite such transfer, continuously subject to his statutory liability.
'
Without attempting to review all of the many other'cass
decided by this court involving controversies on this subject,
it may not be doubted that the substantial doctrine of the case
just reviewed has been reiterated time and time again and is
the settled.law of this court.' 'Thus in Bowden v. Johnsonh, 107
U. S. 251, Johnson was the holder of stock in a nfationi baik.
On February 14, 1874, his' stock was transferred on the books
of the bank in the name of a Mrs. Valentine. ' On May 26,
1874, more' than three months after such transfer, the bahk
failed and the Comptroller made an assessment to pay the
debts existing at the tiffie of the failure,' and th6'suit liad 'for
its object the enforcement of'this assessment against Johnson.
It was found that the transfer to Mrs. Valehtine was not a.shahi',
but that at the time' it 'was 'niade the' bank was insolvent,
that Johnson knew of the insolVefiy'and transferred his 'stock
to avoid liability and With th khowledge;'that. Mrs! Valentine
was irresponsible. Conming' to' "considc?' the 'econtehti6n,'und6r
these facts, that Johnsoi gould 'hot 6e held for th' debts existing at the time of the failure,' the court ekpressly' reit'drat6" the
ruling in the Case case, held 'that a' hgr0h'oldcr''who 'Made a
fraudulent transfer' of' the' kind under '"o.sidcr.ti.6n'co.iinued
liable as a stockholhr, ahd thdhssessmrcnt 'vhich had-be~
made by the Comptroller foi tho debts'existinig At the' tine of
the failure was adj]iidged to' be 'valid,' ihho'd'gh' such' f hlfie
happened months after' the fraudulen t trandler. 'In the course
of the opinion the: court •'said (p. 261'):

'

"

'

"But where the transferrdr,"po~sessed"of inforiation ghdw'ing that there is good ground 'o ap'prdhend the 'failure of the
bank, colludes and conibifies, as in this case, with ah irrespoi!ible transferee, with the desigii'of substituting th6 latter in his
place, and' of'thus leaving no one with any abilitfy to r'espo'nd
for the individual liability inipb~ed by 'the statute, in" respect

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

WHITE, McKENNA

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

of the shares of stock transferred, the transaction will be
decreed to be a fraud on the creditors, and he will be held to
the same liability to the creditors as before the transfer. He
will be still regarded as a shareholder quoad the creditors,
although he may be able to show that there was a full or a
partial consideration for the transfer, as between him and the
transferee.
"The appellees contend that the statute does not admit of
such a rule, because it declares that every person becoming a
shareholder by transfer succeeds to all the liabilities of the
prior holder, and that, therefore, the liabilities of the prior
holder, as a stockholder, are extinguished by the transfer.
But it was held by this court in National Bank v. Case, 99
U. S. 628, that a transfer on the books of the bank is not in all
cases enough to extinguish liability. The court, in that case,
defined as one limit of the right to transfer, that the transfer
must be out and out, or one really transferring the ownership
as between the parties to it. But there is nothing in the statute
excluding, as another limit, that the transfer must not be to a
person known to be irresponsible, and collusively made, with
the intent of escaping liability, and defeating the rights given
by statute to creditors. Mrs. Valentine might be liable as a
shareholder succeeding to the liabilities of Johnson, because
she has voluntarily assumed that position; but that is no reason why Johnson should not, at the election of creditors, still
be treated as a shareholder, he having, to escape liability,
perpetrated a fraud on the statute. This is the view enforced
by the decision of the Chief Justice in Davis v. Stevens, 17
Blatchf. 259."
Again, in Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1, where it was found
that a transfer of stock in a national bank had been made with
knowledge on the part of the transferrer of the insolvency of
the bank, and to escape the double liability, the court, after
approvingly citing the previous cases, said (p. 14):
"And the bank having been, in fact, insolvent at the time
of the transfer of the stock-which fact is not disputed-he

OCTOBER TERM,, 1905.
WHITE, MCKENNA and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

(the transferrer) remained notwithstanding such transfer, as
between the receiver and himself, a shareholder subject to the
individual liability imposed by section 5151."
I need not stop to refer to the subsequent. adjudications of
this court which expressly reiterate the rulings just reviewed,
since they are approvingly cited in the opinion of the court, and
indeed are made the basis of the ruling. But to my mind it
seems clear that the limited liability of Dewey which the court
now applies to the eighty shares is repugnant to the previous
decisions, and therefore the effect of citing approvingly the
cases in question and yet deciding, as the court now does, is
but at one and the same time to approve and disapprove the
previous decisions.
Let me briefly state why I think this conclusion inevitable.
Certain it is that the previous, cases expressly and unequivocally decided that a stockholder who in fraud of the liability
as stated makes a transfer of his stock remains at the election of the creditors a stockholder to the same extent as if
the transfer had not. been made or as if it had been a mere
sham. Can there be doubt of this in view of the language of
the Case case announcing the American rule, of the express
statement to that effect in the Bowden case, and the fact that
in that case the liability, under the call of the Comptroller,
was enforced for the debts existing months after the completed transfer and not merely for the unsatisfied debts existing at the time of the transfer? Is this not certain also in
view of the declaration in Stuart v. Hayden, that because
of the fraudulent transfer the stockholder continued to be
liable under the statute? And mark, in the Hayden case, as
if ex industria to exclude the conception that the fraud was
only relative as to creditors existing at the time of the fraudulent transfer, the court expressly declared that the liability of
the transferring stockholder was to the receiver and according
to the terms of the statute. And this, but in different form,
reiterated the declaration made in the Bowden case, that
the fraud was a fraud on the statute, and not, therefore,

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

WHITE,MCKENNA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

simply relative as to particular creditors existing at the
time.
Besides to me it seems that the rule of limited liability now
announced is self-destructive. What is the liability which the
statute imposes? Is it a responsibility only to pay debts of
the bank as they existed at the time a fraudulent transfer was
made? Not so; for the only liability imposed by the statute
on the stockholders is an obligation to respond to an equal
and ratable assessment made by the Comptroller to pay the
debts existing at the time of the failure. Rev. Stat. §§5151,
5234. From this it results that if a person is not a stockholder at the time of the failure he is liable for nothing, and
if he is such stockholder he is liable for the statutory sum and
no other. This plain result of the statute to my mind demonstrates the error of the conclusion as to limited liability
now announced. For, if Dewey was not a stockholder at the
time of the failure there is an entire absence of statutory
authority to make any assessment whatever upon him, and
if he was such stockholder then the statute fixed the measure
of liability, and there is no power to substitute by judicial
discretion a liability which the statute does not impose, and
which on the contrary is excluded by its express terms. In
other words, the statute imposes a uniform and ratable liability upon all stockholders who are liable at all and affords
no justification for assessing one stockholder at one amount
and another stockholder in another sum, upon the theory that
the date of the contracting of debts and not the date of the
failure is the test of liability.
And that this departure from the long received and judicially
sanctioned construction of the statute will tend to destroy the
security of the national banking system by rendering the double
liability impossible of enforcement results from a few obvious
considerations. Thus, under the rule now announced, one
who owns or controls a majority of the stock of a national bank,
knowing it to be insolvent, can transfer his stock to wholly
irresponsible persons in order to avoid the statutory liability,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE, McKENNA

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

and, by postponing the date of open failure until the existing
debts of the bank have been extinguished by novation, leave
the creditors existing at the time of the failure with substantially no stockholder to respond to the double liability. Indeed, this condition of things cannot be more cogently made
manifest than by considering the facts in this case as found
by the court. What are they? They are that Dewey was an
officer of the bank and knew its hopelessly insolvent condition,
and that he transferred his stock to avoid the liability, leaving
the shares in the name of his agent or causing that agent to
put the same in the names of irresponsible people. In effect
controlling the affairs of the bank, Dewey delays the open
failure until by a change of the situation, although the indebtedness of the bank may not have dililinished, yet, by a mere
substitution of creditors, the particular debts due at the time
of his fraudulent transfers have largely been extinguished.
And thus, when the open failure comes, it is now decided that,
as to the shares fraudulently transferred by his agent, Dewey
owes nothing towards payment of the debts of the bank, except
as to debts still existing, which were contracted prior to the
fraudulent transfers. In other words, it is held that although
the bank was insolvent prior to and at the time of the commission of the fraudulent acts and continued so to the time of the
failure, the fraudulent transferrer has accomplished the wrong
which the statute was intended to prevent by holding back
and preventing the open failure until he had discharged, at the
expense of the subsequent creditors of the bank, the indebtedness existing at the time of the fraudulent transfers. Under
the rule hitherto prevailing the duty of the adininistrative
officer was plainly marked out in the statute, to realize the
assets, and, if necessary to meet a deficiency of assets, to assess
ratably the legal 'stockholders-a simple and effective rule.
Now the duty of the administrative officer is wholly changed.
He must analyze the-situation at the bank, he must determine
who were creditors at this time and that, in order to fix the
liability of stockholders, and when this process is gone through

McDONALD v. DEWEY.
202 U. S.

WHITE, McKENNA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

with, instead of levying the equal and ratable statutory liability, he must call upon the shareholders for unequal and
unratable contributions.
I can see no reason for now changing the construction of the
National Banking Act as applied in forty years of administration, as embodied in the text and spirit of the statute and as
sanctioned by a long line of decisions of this court, especially
when the indvitable consequence of such change will, in my
judgment, operate to -the detriment of the public interest and
the security and stability of national banks which it was the
purpose of Congress by the statute to secure.
It remains only to briefly notice the case of Peter v. Union
Mfg. Co., 56 Ohio St. 181, heretofore referred to and cited by
the court in its opinion. To understand that case a prior
decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio, Brown v. Hitchcock,
36 Ohio St. 667, of which the opinion in the Peter case was but
an evolution, must be taken into view. In Brown v. Hitchcock, interpreting the Ohio law, the Supreme Court of Ohio
held that by the effect of the constitution and laws of that
State a stockholder in an Ohio corporation who was subjected
to a double liability was impotent to dispose of his stock,
however bona fide might be the sale or disposition thereof, so
as to escape liability to creditors who were such at the time
of the transfer. In other words, the court held that the effect
of that double. liability imposed by the Ohio statutes was to
prevent an efficacious transfer of the stock without the \consent of the creditors, since such creditors, despite a bona fide
sale, as long as debts contracted previously remained unsatisfied, had the power, if circumstances required, to proceed
against the stockholders who were such at the time the debt
was contracted, and this irrespective of whether the corporation was at the time of the transfer solvent or insolvent.
Subsequently, in the Peter case, the Ohio court was called upon
to determine how far a transferof stock by a stockholder in
an Ohio corporation operated to relieve him from future debts
of the corporation. As to this question the court, in effect;

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
-WHITE, McKEiNNA

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

applied to the Ohio statutes the English "out and out" rule;
in other words, that court, whilst reiterating its ruling as to
existing creditors, decided that a stockholder who made an out
and out sale, although the corporation was insolvent and the
purpose was to escape the double liability, was discharged
from any responsibility to future creditors, although remaining liable to existing creditors. The difference between the
Ohio statutes, as thus expounded, and the National Banking
Act, as expounded by this court, is at once demonstrated by
the statement that under the National Banking Act the stockholder, as repeatedly decided by this court, has a right, when
acting in good faith, to dispose of his stock and escape liability
both as to existing and future creditors, and that the theory
of out and 'out transfers as to future debts, applied by the
Ohio court to the statute of that State, was expressly repudiated by this court as to the National Banking Act in the Case
and subsequent decisions. To treat then the Ohio case as
authoritative here is, in effect, but to expunge the National
Banking Act from the statutes of the United States and to
substitute in its stead the statutes of Ohio, when such statutes
have a wholly different significance as interpreted by the
highest court of that State.
I therefore dissent.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and
MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in this dissent.

