OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

-202 U. S.

their jurisdiction was in doubt. So far as this p6int is concerned, there is no reason why the plaintiff should not suffer
the usual consequence of failure to establish its case.
The only item specially discussed is the charge of $2.50 for
each witness examined before the examiner, on the footing of
"depositions" mentioned in Rev. Stat. § 824. There seems
to have been some difference of opinion in the lower courts as
to whether testimony given before an examiner could be .treated
as a deposition. See Strauss v. Meyer, 22 Fed. Rep. 467;
1 Foster's Fed. Prac., 3d ed., 727, § 330. In favor of so treating
it are Ferguson v. Dent, 46 Fed. Rep. 88; Hake v. Brown, 44
Fed. Rep. 734; Ingham v. Pierce, 37 Fed. Rep. 647; The
Sallie P. Linderman, 2.2 Fed. Rep. 557; Stimpson v. Brooks, 3
J3latchf. 456. See also St. Matthew's Say. Bank v. Fidelity
Casualty Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 161-163. The words of the statute are broad enough to embrace the testimony, unless they
are taken very strictly, and the trouble to the parties in having
to visit different places was similar to that caused by the taking of depositions adverted to by Judge Treat in Strauss v.
Meyer. The case is quite distinct from that of testimony
taken in court and reduced to writing by a reporter. We are
of opinion that the item Inay be allowed.
Motion for costs allowed.

McDERMOTT v. SEVERE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 244.

Argued April 20, 23, 1906.-Decidedl May 28, 1906.

The motorman of a trolley car, which was rapidly approaching a place where
a small boy was trying to assist his smaller brother to extricate his foot
from the track, made no effort to stop the car when he first saw the boys,
supposing, as he testified, that they were playing on the track, as Many
boys did, ontil the last moment and that they would, as usual, get off
the track in time; when the car was within a few yards of the boys he

McDERMOTT v. SEVERE.
202 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

saw and realized their §ituation, and did what he could to stop the
car, but did not succeed in doing so and one of the boys was so injured
that one of his legs had to be amputated. In the trial court the jury
found the defendant company guilty, on a special verdict, of negligence
in the improper construction of the crossing and also in the management
of the car, and it was consented that the jury find that the motorman
did all in his power to stop the car when he saw that the boy's foot was
caught. In affirming the judgment entered on the verdict and passing on
questions of sufficiency of evidence to submit questions to jury, Held,
that:
Negligence only becomes a question of law to be taken from the jury when
the facts are such that fair-minded men can only draw from them the
inference that there was no negligenceL and if, from the facts admitted
or conflicting testimony, such men may honestly draw different conclusions as to the negligence charged, the question is not one of law but
of fact, to be settled by the jury under proper instructions; and in this
case it was properly left to the jury to determine whether the motorman
was guilty of negligence in not getting his car under control so that in
event of probable injury he could quickly and promptly stop it.
The court properly left it to the jury to determine whether the motorman
exercised reasonable care to avoid injury to the boys which the circumstances required, taking into consideration that they were children
and that older people are chargeable with the duty of care and caution
towards them.
An exception of general character to a charge covering a number of elements
of damages will not cover specific objections which in fairness to the court
should be called to its attention in order that it may if necessary correct
or modify its instructions.
It was not error for the trial court in the case of a boy who has lost a leg
to charge that the jury can consider mental suffering past and future
found to be the necessary consequence of the loss of his leg. The action
being one for injury to the person of an intelligent being if the injury
produced mental as well as bodily anguish it is impossible to exclude thie
former in estimating the extent of the injury.
Where the court instructs that the sum claimed should not be taken as'a
criterion but that it is a limit beyond which the jury cannot go there
is no error.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George P. Hoover and Mr. Charles A. Douglas for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. S. Worthington, Mr. William Meyer Lewin and Mr.
Charles L. Frailey for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, i905.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY

202 U. S.

delivered the opinidn of the court.

This is an action to recover damages because of an injury
received by Charles E. Severe, an infant, who was run over
at a plank crossing of the railway company, the railroad then
being in charge of the defendant, operating the same as receiver.
The plaintiff below recovered judgment in the Supreme
Court of the District, which was affirmed in the Court of
Appeals.
At the placeof the accident there was a plank crossing, the
planks laid between and on either side of the rails, at a point
where a street was opened to the westward, and on the other
side of the tracka footpath, but no thoroughfare for vehicles.
The crossing was one of the regular stopping places of the cars
of the -street railway near Riverdale, Maryland. The words
"Cars stop here" were on both sides of the telegraph pole at
the crossing. At the time of the injury plaintiff was six years
and ten months old. His youngdst brother Raymond was a
little over five years of age, and with them another brother,
Edward, about nine years old. The injured boy, at the time
he was hurt, had his foot caught in a space between the rail
and the edge of the plank on the inside. There was testimony
tending to show that this opening was two to two and elevensixteenths inches wide. The accident happened between two
and three o'clock in the afternoon of August 61, 1902. The
testimony discloses that theboys had expected to meet their
parents returning from a Visit, about two o'clock that afternoon, and went to the crossing for that purpose. Edward
the oldest boy, went to his father's house nearby to get a drink
of water; while he was gone the youngest boy, Raymond, got
his foot caught in the space between the west rail and the
plank next the inside of the rail. Plaintiff came to the assistance of his little brother, whose foot he helped to extricate,
and was him'self caught in the space between the plank. and
the rail. Raymond ran to the house to notify Edward that

McDERMOTT v., SEVERE.
202 U. S.

603

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff's foot was caught. Together the two boys ran
back towards the crossing, and shortly thereafter the plaintiff
was struck and so severely injured that it became necessary to
amputate his leg below the knee.
In the view we take of this case we do not consider it necessary to state in detail the testimony as to the construction
of the crossing and the alleged negligence in leaving the space
in which the boy's foot was caught. Under the pleadings and
the testimony the jury was directed to return a special veraict
upon three propositions: 1. Was the defendant guilty of negligence in the improper construction'or maintenance of the crossing? 2. Was the defendant guilty of negligence in the improper management of the car? 3. Did the motorman do all
in his power to stop the car as soon as he saw the plaintiff's
foot was caught inthe space between the rail and plank? The
jury answered the first and second questions in the affirmative;
being-unable to agree on the third, the plaintiff consented that
it might also be answered in the affirmative.
In view of thes6 special findings, if the issue concerning
either of the first two of them was properly submitted to the
jury upon sufficient evidence and found against the company,
the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be affirmed.
In delivering the opinion of the Court of Appeals Mr, Chief
Justice Shepard-says:
"It is conceded, by reason of the special findings of the jury,
that- the defendant was guilty of negligence, not only in the
construction and maintenance of the crossing, but also in the
management and control of the car; that error in the instructions upon both points must be shown in order to obtain a
reversal of the judgment, because either finding alone is sufficient support therefor."
It isinsisted in argument here that the court ought to have
taken the case from the jury because of the insufficiency of the
evidence to sustain a verdict. In the view we take of the case
as made and submitted concerning the conduct of the motorman at the time of the accident and the instructions given to.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the jury in that connection, we do not deem it necessary to
consider the correctness of the charge submitting the question
as to the negligent construction of this crossing. We think the
testimony was ample to carry the case to the jury upon the
question of the negligent conduct of the motorman at the time
of the injury, and that this issue was properly left to the jury
under instructions which afford no ground for reversal.
Negligence only becomes a question of law to be taken from
the jury when the facts are such that fair-minded men can only
draw from them the inference that there' was no negligence.
If fair-minded men, from the facts admitted, or conflicting
testimony, may honestly draw different conclusions as to the
negligence charged, the question is not one of law but of fact,
and to be settled by the jnry under proper instructions. Railroad Company v. Powers, 149 U., S. 43; Railroad Company v.
Everett, 152 U. S. 107.
In addition to the facts to which we have adverted upon the
branch of the case which we deem it necessary to consider,
the testimony tended to show that there was nothing to prevent
the motorman from seeing the crossing for a distance more
than sufficient to have avoided the injury by controlling or
stopping his car; that the boy Edward waved his hat and
"hollered". for the motorman "to stop," when the car was
50 or 60 feet away. A passenger who was on the car testified
that his attention being called by the motorman ringing his
bell he saw a larger boy than the one on the track, waving his
hand. Another passenger testified that when from sixty to
one hundred yards from the place he saw three boys apparently
standing on the platform or crossing. Plaintiff says that just
before he was hurt he saw his brother waving his hat and
"hollering" to the motorman, and that he too waved his hand
at the motorman. Witfiesses testified that the car when
stopped came up with a sudden joilt, There was also testimony tending to show that boys were in the habit of playing
at this crossing and running back and forth over it.
The motorman testified that he was in charge of the car and

McDERMOTT v. SEVERE.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was on the. Washington bound track at the time; that he saw
the boys when he was about three or four hundred feet away;
when he first saw them there were three boys on the track,
running and jumping backwards and forwards on the crossing.
He sounded his gong when he approached, about one hundred
and fifty feet away, and repeatedly thereafter until he reached
the boy; when he first saw that the boy was'not going to get
off the track he was about thirty or thirty-five feet away from
him; that he then put on the brakes, reversed the power, and
did everything possible to stop the car. He had often seen
the plaintiff on the track at that place and on the crossing at
Riverdale, Maryland; that he had seen him remaining on the
track until the car got close to him, when he would jump off
the track, clap his hands and laugh; had seen the plaintiff and
other boys do the same thing; the first thing that indicated
to him that the boy would not get off the track was when he
saw that his foot was caught:; that at that time he was from
thirty to thirty-five feet from him; that he did not see the
boys wave their hands or hats or making any motions to him
or did not hear them calling to him. There was testimony
tending to show on the part of the plaintiff below that he was
not in the habit of playing at this crossing, and that he and
his brothers had not been there before in the manner stated
by the motorman. The motorman testified further that he
saw the boy on the track when he was about three or four
hundred feet away.
We are of opinion that in the attitude of the case on this
subject it was not error to leave to the jury, under proper
instructions, to find whether or not there was negligence in
managing the car just before the accident occurred. Upon
this part of the case the instructions requested were as follows:
"If the jury shall find from the evidence that the motorman
sounded his gong when he was far enough away from the plaintiff and his associates so that they had sufficient time to leave
the track before the car reached them, he had the right to
assume that they would do so, and he was not required to

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

commence to stop the car until such time as he discovered that
the plaintiff had his foot caught between the rail and the plank;

and if they shall further find that as soon as the motorman
made such discovery he did all in his power to stop the car
before it struck the plaintiff, then they should find for the
defendant.
"If the jury find from the evidence that the motorman
sounded the gong when'he was far enough away from the
plaintiff and his associates, so that they had sufficient time to
leave the track before the car reached them; and if they shall
further find that as soon as the motorman saw that the plaintiff would not or could not leave the track before the car
feached him, he did all in his power to stop the car before it
struck the plaintiff, and shall further find that the construction
was not negligent, then they should find for the defendant;
and in determining whether the motorman should have commenced to stop the car before he did they may consider the
fact, if they find it to be a fact from the evidence, that plaintiff
and others were in the habit of standing on the track and
leaving it as the car approached near them, and whether he
saw any waving from any one before he commenced to stop
the car."
Upon this subject the court said to the jury:
"On the *other question, as to whether the motorman did
all that he could possibly do under the circumstances toavert
this danger you will have to consider all the testimony, not
only that of the plaintiff, but of the defendant, and try to
reconcile it as far as you can in order to ascertain where the
fact lies. Was it prudent'in that motorman, under all the
circumstances of the case, to calculate that these children
would be off from the track and out of danger when he got
there? Or was it requisite for him, as a prudent and reasonable man, to have his car under control so that he could stop
very suddenly in case they were not out of danger when he
got there? Of course, in determining that 4uestion, you are
to consider what had been the habit of children about playing

McDERMOTT • v. SEVERE.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at that place. You are not to attribute any contributory
negligence to the plaintiff, because this plaintiff is less than
seven years of age and the law does not give him discretion.
Adults have to look out for children of that kind. But at the
same time he may have been in the habit of jumping off and
on that track in such a way that the motorman might have
been justified in concluding there would be no danger. You
are to look at all the surrounding facts and see whether that
is true, whether he was justified in that calculation. There
was one boy still smaller than the boy who was injured, and
according to the motorman's own statement the three boys
were running back and forth across the track. It is for you
to determine whether or not he should have gotten into close
proximity to them without getting his car under such control
that he could have stopped very suddenly if necessary to
prevent an accident. Of course, after he saw that the boy's
foot was caught, he must do everything to stop the car. But I
call your attention to the time before he could see that the
boy's foot was caught and ask you to consider what it would
have been prudent for him to do before that time, considering
all the surrounding circumstances, considering the formation
of this plank crossing, of this track and of this platform, and
considering the fact, as the motorman says it was a fact, that
children were frequently there running back and forth. Should
he have anticipated that there might have been some kind of
danger there, and should he have stopped his car or gotten it
under control before he even saw any signal or waving or before he saw that the boy's foot was caught? Of course after
he saw that the boy's foot was caught it must be his duty to
stop just as soon as he can in order to prevent the accident.
I have no doubt he did that. But whether he discharged his
.whole duty towards these children, whom he admits having
seen there before that time, is a question for the jury.
"In considering the question of the liability of the defendant on either of the two foregoing grounds, the jury are instructed that they have a right to take into consideration the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

evidence tending to show that the place where the accident
occurred was a public crossing and that it was frequented,
and that it was known to the motorman in charge of the car
to be frequented, by young children, as well as by older persons.
"It is a question for the jury whether the motorman should
have commenced to stop the car sooner than he did, and in
determining that question they should take into consideration
the fact, if they find it to be a fact, that the plaintiff and other
boys were in the habit, at the point in question, of standing
on the track until the car was very near them and then jumping off.
"In determining the question of how far the car was from
the platform when the boys waved their hands they must be
governed by the evidence, and not by speculation."
The substance of the requests of the defendant on this part
of the case was that the motorman having sounded his gong
far enough away to give warning to the boys in time to get off
the track before the car reached them, did all his duty required, provided, that as soon.as he saw that the boy could
not or would not leave the track, he did all in his power to stop
the car before the injury. On the other hand, the court left
it to the jury to say whether, under the circumstances shown,
the motorman was or was not guilty of negligence in failing
to get his car under control, so that in the event of probable
injury he could quickly and promptly stop it.
We think the court did not err in its charge in this respect
and that the motorman had no right to assume that boys of
tender age, such as the plaintiff, might not be caught upon the
crossing notwithstanding his signals, which would have been
adequate to warn one of mature years of approaching danger.
Plaintiff was not a wrongdoer. He had gone upon the track
with a view of rescuing his brother, and was himself caught and
was unable to extricate his foot from the space between the
rail and the plank. It is not contended that he was guilty of
any contributory negligence. He was a child of tender years;

McDERMOTT v. SEVERE.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the testimony 'is undisputed that children were -in :the habit
of playing at and near this crossing; that they wereat the time
of the injury in full view of.the motorman at least four hundred
feet away, at which distance he admits he saw the boys: It
was apparent that one of the boys was right upon the track.
The jury may have found from the testimony, and the court
could not have disturbed that conclusion, that the motorman
acted uj'on the assumption that the boys would get off the
track, and though running at, a speed of eight to ten miles per
hour, made no effort to get his car under control orto stop it,
until he saw the boy's foot was caught, when it was too late
to do otherwise than run over him. The car, running with
electric power, could have been controlled and taken well in
hand so as to be readily stopped at the crossing.
This court in Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. McDonald, 152
U. S. 262, 277, quoted approvingly from Judge Cooley in a
Michigan. case: "Children, wherever they. gq, must be expected
to act upon childish instincts and impulses; and others who
are chargeable with a duty of care and caition towards them
must calculate upon this, and take precautions accordingly."
This view is supported by other well considered cases. Powers
v. Harlow, 53 Michigan, 507, 514; Camden Interstate Railway
Co. v. Broom, 139 Fed. Rep. 595; Forestal Y. Milwaukee Electric Railway Co., 119 Wisconsin, 495; Strutzel v. St. Paul City
Railway Co., 47 Minnesota, 543; Gray v. St. Paul City; Railway Co., 87 Minnesota, 280.
This is not a case of a sudden and unexpected coming of
children upon a track. The jury may have found that if the
motorman had acted prudently in view of the signals and
warnings to stop, which the testimony tends to show were
given, and, the full view he had of the boys at the time of the
accident, checked the car and kept it under control, the injury
might have been avoided.
We think, upon principle and authority, the court properly
left to the jury to find whether the motorman exercised that
reasonable care to avoid injury to the boy which the circumvol,. cCu-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

stances of the occasion required. And to have given an instruction as requested by the plaintiff in error, which limited
the duty of the motorman to sounding an alarm in time for
the boy to get off the track, and to act upon the presumption
that he would do so until he found it was impossible for the
plaintiff to remove:his foot, would have been an unwarranted
charge.
It is further urged that the court erred in instructing the
jury upon the questiofi of damages. Upon this point the
court said:
"The jury are instricted that if they find a verdict for the
plaintiff they should render a verdict in his favor for such a
sum (not exceeding the amount claimed in the declaration)
as in their. judgment will reasonably compensate him for the
pain resulting from the injury, and for the loss of his leg; for
the inconvenience to which he has been put, and which he will
be likely to be put, during the remainder of his life, in consequence'of the loss of his leg; for the mental suffering, past and
future, which the jury may find to be the natural and necessary
consequence of the loss of his leg, and for such pecuniary loss
as the direct result of the injury which the jury may find from
the evidence that he is reasonably likely to sustain hereafter in consequence of his being deprived of one of his legs."
The court's attention was not called to any particular in
which this charge which covers a number of elements of daimages was alleged to be wrong, only a general exception was
taken to the charge as given in this respect. It has been too
frequently held to require the extended citation of ca'es that
an exception of this general character will not cover specific
objections, which in fairness to the court ought to have been
called to its attention, in- order that if necessary, it could
correct or modify them. A number of the rules of damages
laid clown in this charge were unquestionably correct; to which
no objection has been or could be successfully made. In such
cases it is the duty of the objecting party to point out specifically the part of the instructions regarded as erroneous.

McDERMOTT v. SEVERE.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Baltimore & Potomac Railway Co. v. Mackey, 157 U. S.
72, 86.
It is now objected that to permit a recovery for a pecuniary
loss as covered iii the instructions would allow the infant
plaintiff to recover compensation for his time before as well
as after he has reached his majority, and that duriimg infancy
his father is entitled to recover any wages be might earn.
If the defendant wished the charge modified in this respect he
should have called the attention of the court directly to this
feature. The charge in this respect was general, permitting
a recovery for a pecuniary loss directly resulting from the
injury. It would be very unfair to the trial court to keep
such an objection in abeyance and urge it for the first time
in an appellate tribunal.
Furthermore, an objection is taken to the charge as to
mental suffering, past and future. It is objected that this
instruction permits a recovery for future humiliation and embarrassment Of mind and feelings because of the loss of the leg.
But we find no objection to the charge as given in this respect.
The court said: "The jury are to consider mental suffering,
past and future, found to be the necessary COnseq(Uence of
the loss of his leg." Where such imental suffering is a direct
and necessary consequence of the physical injury, we think the
jury may consider it. It is not unlikely that the court might
have given more ample instruction in this respect, had it
been requested so to do. But what was said limited the coinpensation to the direct consequences of the physical injury.
An instruction of this character was sustained iii Washington
& Georgetown Railroad Co. v. Harirmon, 147 U. S. 571, 584.
That there might be more or ]ess continuous mental suffering
directly resulting from a maiming of the plaintiff's person in an
injury of this character was probable, and where the jury was
limited to that which necessarily resulted from the injury
we think there can be no valid objection or just ground of
complaint. Of a charge of this character, in Kennon v. Gilmer,
131 U. S. 22, 26, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for this court, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

"But the instruction given only authorized them,"in assessing
damages for the injury caused by the defendants to the plaintiff, to take into consideration 'his bodily and mental pain
and suffering, both taken together' ('but not his mental pain
alone'), and such as 'inevitably and necessarily resulted from
the original injury.' The action is for an injury to the person
of an intelligent being; and when the injury, whether caused
by willfulness or by negligence, produces mental as well as
bodily anguish and suffering, independently of any extraneous
consideration or cause, it is impossible to exclude the mental
suffering in estimating the extent of the peisonal injury for
which compensation is to be awarded. The instruction was
in accord with the opinions of this court in similar cases."
We find no error in the charge in this respect.
As to the alleged error in charging the jury that damages
could not be recovered in excess of the sum claimed in the
declaration, the court was careful to say to the jury that the
sum claimed should not be taken as a criterion to act upon, but
that it was only a limit beyond which they could not go. We
cannot see how the plaintiff in error was prejudiced by this
instruction.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is

Aftined.

