OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

202 U. S.

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
PREWI T T, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF THE
STATE OF KENTUCKY.
TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY OF HARTFORD
v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
NOS. 178,184. Argued January 16, 1906.-Dismissed February 19, 1906.-Petitions for
rehearing granted and cases decided May 14, 1906.

A .writ of error having been dismissed, after full argument, as being a moot
case, on mistaken assumption of fact justified by the record, and the
petitions for -rehearing showing facts on which substantial relief can be
granted the applicatfon for rehearing is allowed and the case decided
on the merits on the arguments already made.
A State has the power to prevent a foreign corporation from doing business
at all within its borders unless such prohibition is so conditioned as to
violate the Federal Constitution, and a state statute which, without
requiring a foreign insurance company to enter into any agreement
not to remove into the Federal courts cases commenced against it in
the state court, provides that if the company does so remove such a case
its license to do business within the State shall thereupon be revoked is
not unconstitutional. Doyle v.. Continental Insurance Co., 94 U. S. 535,
followed and hold not to be overruled by Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S.
r186, or any other decision of this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wim. Marshall Bullitt, with whom Mr. F. W. Jenkins,
Mr. Julien T. Davies and Mr. Charles S. Grubbs were on the
brief, for the Security Mutual Life Insurance Co.
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue and Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom
Mr. Vm. Bro. Smith, Mr. John C. Doolan and Mr. Attilla
Cox, Jr., were on the brief, for the Travelers Insurance Co.

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 247
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. H. Hazelrigg, with whom Mr. N. B. Hays, Attorney
General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and Mr. H. R.
Prewitt were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.
Motions for rehearing have been presented by plaintiffs in
error. The cases were commenced in the proper state court
in Kentucky, and were argued here on their merits in January
of this term, and the writs of error were dismissed, 200 U. S,
446, because, as appeared from the record, only abstract questions remained to be decided, the licenses to do business within
the State of Kentucky in both cases, which had been granted
on July 1, 1904, for one year, having expired since issuing the
writs of error.
In No. 178 the petition stated that the permission or authority to continue to do business in Kentucky had been renewed and extended from year to year by the State Insurance
Commissioner, and that he had, on July 1, 1.904, "continued
the authority to the Security Mutual to transact the business
of life insurance," as evidenced by the permit "for a period of
one year from July 1, 1904. " It was also averred that the
permit had been revoked in September, 1904, and the company
asked to have the revocation cancelled.
In No. 184 the petition stated that the company had been
granted authority to transact business in the State of Kentucky
for the period of one year then next ensuing, that is, from July 1,
1904. The petition showed that the permit had not then (October, 1904) been revoked, but it was alleged that the Superintendent of Insurance threatened to revoke it (on grounds substantially similar to those set forth in the Security case, in 200
U. S. supra, viz., the removal to a Federal court of a case
commenced against the company in the state court), and an
injunction was asked to prevent the revocation of the permit
on that account.
On these motions for a rehearing it is now shown, what did

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

not appear. in the records, that the permits in fact had been
renewed for another year, from July 1, 1905, to July 1, 1906,
for the purpose, as it would seem, of having the point involved
reviewed by this court. Neither party. adverted to this fact
on the argument, and the cases were fully presented by counsel
on both sides, on the merits, and the question treated as still
existing.
As the dismissal was ordered on a mistaken assumption of
fact, justified by the records, that the permits had expired by
lapse of time and had not been renewed, the applications for
rehearing are granted and the judgments of dismissal set aside,
and the cases will be decided upon the arguments already made
in full by counsel for both parties.
The facts upon the main question sufficiently appear in the
report in 200 U. S.446. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky
held the statute valid. 26 Ky. Law Rep. 1239, dissenting
opinion, 27 Ky. Law Rep. 77. See also 83 S.W. Rep. 611;
84 S.W. Rep. 527.
The matter to be now determined is whether a State has the
right to provide that if a foreign insurance company shall remove a case to the Federal court, which has been commenced
in a state court, the license of such company to do business
within the State shall be thereupon revoked.
The statute under which the question arises is known as section 631 of the Kentucky Statutes, and reads as follows:
"Before authority is granted to any foreign insurance company to do business in the State, it nmust file with the Commissioner a resolution adopted by its board of directors, consenting that service of process upon any agent of such company
in this State, or upon the Commissioner of Insurance of this
State, in any action brought or pending in this State, shall be
a valid service upon said company; and if process is served
upon the Commissioner it shall be his duty to at once send it
by mail, addressed to the company at its principal office; and
if any company shall, without the consent of the other party
to any suit or proceeding brought by or against it in any court

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 249
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of this State, remove said suit or proceeding to any Federal
court, or shall institute any suitor proceeding against any citizen of this State in any Federal court, it shall be the duty of
the Commissioner to forthwith revoke all authority to such
company and its agents to do business in this State, and to
publish such revocation in some newspaper of general circulation published in the State."
A State has the right to prohibit a foreign corporation from
doing business within its borders, unless such prohibition is so
conditioned as to violate some provision of the Federal Constitution. Among the later authorities on that proposition are
Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578, 583; Orient Insurance Company v. Daggs, 172 U. S.
557; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; New York
Life Insurance Company v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389, 395; Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Warren, 181 U. S. 73.
Having the power to prevent a foreign insurance company
froim doing business at all within the State, we think the State
can enact a statute such as is above set forth.
The question is, in our opinion, settled by the decisions of
this court. In Insurance Company v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, a
statute of Wisconsin, passed in 1870, in relation to fire insurance
companies, after providing for certain conditions upon which
the foreign company might do business within the State, continued:
"Any such company desiring to transact any such business
as aforesaid by any agent or agents in this State, shall first
appoint an attorney in this State on whom process of law can
be served, containing an agreement that such company will
not remove the suit for trial into the United States Circuit
.Court or Federal courts, and file in the office of the Secretary
of State a written instrument, duly signed and sealed, certifying such appointment, which shall continue until another attorney be substituted."
While that statute was in force the Home Insurance Company of the State -of New York established an agency in Wis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

consin, and, in compliance with the provisions of the statute,
the company duly filed in the office of the Secretary of State
of Wisconsin the appointment of one Durand as its agent,
upon whom process might be served. The power of attorney
was filed, containing the following agreement: "Said company
agrees that suits commenced in the state courts of Wisconsin
shall not be removed by the .acts of said company into the
United States Circuit or Federal courts."
After doing business in the State for some time the company
issued a policy to Morse, and a loss having occurred, Morse
sued the company in one of the state courts of Wisconsin to
recover the amount alleged to be due on the policy. The company entered its appearance in the suit and filed its petition
to remove the case, which petition was in proper form, and
was accompanied by the required bond and bail. Being presented to the state court of Wisconsin, in which the suit was
brought, that court held that the-statute justified the denial
of the petition to remove the case into the Federal court, and
a trial having been had in the state court, it gave judgment
for the plaintiff on a verdict found in his favor. Upon a review of the judgment by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin it
was affirmed. Thereupon the insurance company sued out .a
writ of error from this court, and the sole question was, whether
the statute and agreem~nt were sufficient to justify the state
court in refusing to permit the removal of the case to the Federal court, and proceeding to judgment therein. This court
held that the agreement was void, inasmuch as, if'carried out,
it would oust the Federal courts of a jurisdiction given them
by the Constitution and statutes of the United States. It was
said that the statute of Wisconsin was an obstruction to the
right of removal provided for by the Constitution of the United
States and the.laws made in pursuance thereof, and that the
agreement of the insurance company derived no support from
the unconstitutional statute, and it was void as it would have
been had no such statute been passed. The Chief Justice, with
whom concurred Mr. Justice Davis, dissented, holding that, as

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 251
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the State had the right to exclude foreign insurance companies
from the transaction of business within its jurisdiction, it had
the right to impose conditions upon their admission, which was
a necessary consequence from the right to exclude altogether.
It will be seen the statute provided that in the power of attorney, appointing an agent for the company within the State,
there should be an agreement that the company would not remove a case to a Federal court, and the statute was held to be
void.
Subsequently the case of Doyle v. Continental Insurance Company, 94 U. S. 535, involving the same statute, came before
this court. In that case the court reaffirmed the -decision of
the Morse case, supra, as to ihe invalidity of the agreement.
But in distinguishing the two cases it was said in the course
of the opinion that, as the State had the right to entirely exclude such company from doing business in the State, the
means by which it caused such exclusion or the motives of its
action were not the subject of judicial inquiry; that the conclusion reached in the Morse case that the statute of Wisconsin
was illegal was to be understood as spoken of the provision of
the statute then under review, viz., that portion thereof requiring a stipulation against transferring cases to the courts
of the United States; that the decisionwas.upon that portion
of the statute only, and that other portions thereof, when presented, must be judged on their merits. The court further
said that the Morse case had not undertaken, to decide what
the powers of the State of Wisconsin were in revoking a license
previously granted, as no such question had arisen upon the
facts therein, and was neither argued by counsel nor referred
to in the -opinion, but that in the case then before the court
(that of Doyle) the point as to the power of the State to revoke a license was distinctly presented. It is stated in the
opinion, as follows:
"We have not decided that the State of Wisconsin had not
the power to impose terms and conditions as preliminary to
the right of an insurance company to appoint agents, keep

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

offices, and issue policies in that State. On the contrary, the
case of Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, where it is held that such
conditions may be imposed, was cited with approval in Insurance Company v. Morse."
The opinion concludes as follows:
"It is said that we thus indirectly sanction what we condemn
when presented directly; to wit, that we enable the State of
Wisconsin to enforce an agreement to abstain from Federal
courts. This is an 'inexact statement.' The effect of our decision in this respect is that the State may compel the foreign
company to abstain from the Federal courts, or to cease to do
business in the State. It gives the company the option. This
is justifiable, because the complainant has no constitutional
right to do business in that State; that State has authority at
any time to declare that it shall not transact business there.
This is the whole point of the case, and, without reference
to the injustice, the prejudice, or the wrong that is alleged to exist, must determine the question. No right of the
complainant under the laws or Constitution of the United
States, by its exclusion from the State, is infringed; and this
is what the State now accomplishes. There is nothing, therefore, that will justify the interference of this court."
In these two cases this court decided that any agreement
made by a foreign insurance company not to remove a cause
to the Federal court was void, whether made pursuant to a
statute of the State providing for such agreement, or in the
absence of such statute; but that the State, having power to
exclude altogether a foreign insurance company from doing
bhsiness within the State, had power to enact a statute which,
in addition to providing, for the agreement mentioned, also provided that if the company did remove a case from the state
to a Federal court, its right to do business within the State
should cease, and its permit should be revoked. It was held
there was a distinction between the two propositions, and one
might be hehd void and the other not.
S. 1S(;, has been cited
The case of Barron v. Burnside, 121 It.

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 253
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as overruling the Doyle case, and as holding that a statute of
the nature of the one in question here is void as a violation of
the Federal Constitution. In that case a statute of Iowa was
under consideration. It is set out in the report. The first
section provides for an application by the foreign company to
the Secretary of State, requesting that a permit may be issued
to the corporation to transact business in the State. It also
provides that"the application shall contain a stipulation that
the permit shall be subject to each of the provisions of the act.
The third section provides that if any cases commenced in a
state court were removed by the corporation into a Federal
court, the corporation should thereupon forfeit
any permit issued or authority granted to it to transact business in the State.
The fourth section provides for punishing the agents, officers
or servants of the corporation for doing business as such in the
State, if the corporation had not. complied with the statute
and taken out and retained a valid permit to do business within
the State. The corporation had not, in fact, taken out a permit. Barron, the plaintiff in error, was a servant of the corporation, and was engaged as engineer in running a train of
the corporation, which started from Chicago and was running
in the State of Iowa. He was arrested in Iowa for acting as
the agent of the company in that State, while the company had
no permit. Having been arrested, he applied to .the Supreme
Court of the State for a writ of habeas corpus, which was issued
and a return made, and the case heard upon an agreed statement, containing the above facts. The state court upheld the
validity of the statute, and the case was brought to this court
by writ of error, where the judgment was reversed and the
statute held invalid.
In the opinion delivered in this court it will be observed that
the agreement or stipulation provided for in the statute was
the material fact uDon which the court proceeded, and it was
-held that the statute did require such agreement. The various
requirements mentioned in the first section of the statute were
referred to as forming in fact but one proceeding and as indis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

solubly bound up with the application for a permit that could
not be issued, unless the stipulation was given which made the
permit specially subject to each of the provisions of the act,
including the provision not to Temove. It is clear from the
whole case that the stipulation not to remove was. regarded as
the material part, and the case was decided on that foundation.
Mr. Justice Blatchford said:
"The statute is not separable into parts. An affirmative
provision requiring the filing by a foreign corporation, with
the Secretary of State, of a copy of its articles of incorporation,
and of an authority for the service of process upon a designated
officer or agent in the State, might not be an unreasonable or
objectionable requirement, if standing alone; but the manner
in which, in this statute, the provisions on those subjects are
coupled with the application for the "permit, and with the stipulation referred to, shows that the real and only object of the
statute, and its substantial provision, is the requirement of
the stipulation not to remove the suit into the Federal court."
For this reason the statute was h eld void.
Reference is then made in the opinion to the Morse case, 20
Wall. supra, wherein it was stated that agreements in advance
to oust the court of a jurisdiction conferred by law were illegal
and void, and that parties could not bind themselves in advance by such an agreement thus to forfeit their rights at all
times and on all occasions, whenever the case might be presented.
The Doyle case, 94 U. S. supra, was also referred to, .and Mr.
Justice Blatchford said in regard to it as follows:
"The point of the decision seems to have been, that, as the
State had granted the license, its officers would not be restrained by injunction, by a court of the United States, from
withdrawing it. All that there is in the case beyond this, and
all that is said in the opinion which appears to be in conflict
with the adjudication in Insurance Co. v. Morse, must be regarded as not in judgment."
This is tha language which it is contended overrules the Doyle

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 255
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case. We do not think so. A reference to the Doyle case will
show that the first part of the above-quoted statement is inaccurate, as the case does not seem to have been decided upon
the proposition that an injunction was improper from a court
of the United States to state officers. The Morse case was
referred to and approved, and the court held there was nothing inconsistent between the two cases. The Doyle opinion
proceeds upoi that theory.
If it had been the intention of the court in Barron v. Burnside to overrule the Doyle case, it was easy to have said so. In*stead of that, the opinion rests upon the ground of the agreement to be exacted as a condition of granting the permit, and
that the statute was not separable into parts, and it was held
that the requirement of such a stipulation was void. It was
not held that such a statute as the one of Kentucky now under
consideration was void. Such statute exacts no agreement or
stipulation in any form or in any part of the statute.
. In Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 207,
the
same principle was stated, although the question was not directly involved, as the case was brought in the Federal court
and the corporation contended it was not served with process
in the proper district and that the court was on that account
without jurisdiction. The court, per Mr. Justice Gray, in the
course of the opinion, remarked that a statute requiring the
corporation as a condition precedent to obtaining a permit to
do business within the State, to surrender a right and privilege
secured by the Federal Constitution and laws, was unconstitutional and void. (Page 207.) It was the same, in substance,
as the Iowa statute, which was held void on account of the exaction of the agreement.
In Barrow Steamship Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100, Justice
Gray, in delivering the opinion of the court, again stated what
was regarded as the holding in the two cases of Insurance Co.
v. Morse and Barron v. Burnside, and said that "statutes requiring foreign corporations, as a condition of being permitted
to do business within the State, to stipulate not to remove into

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the courts of the United States suits brought against them in
the courts of the State, have been adjudged to be unconstitutional and void." It was the exaction of a stipulation or
agreement that rendered the statute illegal.
It is also said in Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 255, that
a statute providing that a stipulation should be made that the
company would not remove a case into a Federal court was
void because it made the right to do business under the license
or permit depend upon the surrender by the corporation of a
privilege secured to it by the Constitution.
It is urged that the Iowa and Texas statutes do not require
an agreement not to remove. But those statutes do require
such agreement. The Iowa statute provided that the application for a permit should contain a stipulation that the permit should be subject to each of the provisions of the act,
among which was one that the corporation should forfeit the
permit if it should remove the case. This was held to be, in
effect, a stipulation not to remove, exacted as a condition for
granting the permit. And so the court said:
"As the Iowa statute 'Makes the right to a permit dependent
upon the surrender by the foreign corporation of a privilege
secured to it by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
the statute requiring the permit must be held to be void."
Barron v. Burnside, supra, page 200.
In other words, the statute was regarded as exacting an
agreement in advance not to remove a case, and such being
the fact it was held that the statute was void. The Texas
statute is to the same effect as that of Iowa.
The most' that can be contended for is that the Barron case
holds that where the statute exacts a stipulation in advance,
as a condition of granting a permit, and the statute is not separable into parts, the whole statute is void, and a provision
for withdrawing the permit, if a case is removed, is not saved.
That principle, as we have said, does not touch this case, as
there is no exaction of a stipulation at any time.
It has not been decided that a statute which has no require-

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 257
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Cowrt.

ment for a stipulation or agreement not to remove is void, if
there be simply a provision therein for a revocation of the
permit, such as is contained in the statute under review.
As a State has power to refuse permission to a foreign insurance company to do business at all within its confines, and as
it has power to withdraw that permission when once given,
without stating any reason for its action, the fact that it may
give what sothe may think a poor reason or none for a valid
act is immaterial.
Counsel for the companies, in their brief admit that the State
"has the right at any time to pass a statute expelling a company or revoking its license, and the validity of the statute of
expulsion would not be affected by the motives of the State
in so doing-even though the preamble expressly recited that
the license was revoked because the company had removed a
case. The statute would be valid-for the company had no
constitutional right to remain in the State any longer than
it chose to allow; and the statute would not abridge any right
of removal-for as the case had already been fully removed
before the statute was in existence, the right of removal could
not be said to have been hindered or abridged 13y a statute not
even in existence."
Thus it is admitted that a State has power to prevent a company from coming into its domain, and that it has power to
take away its right to remain after having been permitted once
to enter, and that right may be exercised from good or bad
motives; but what the companies deny is the right of a State
to enact in advance that if a company remove a case to a
Federal court its license shall be revoked.
We think this distinction is not well founded. The truth is
that the effect of the statute is simply to place foreign insurance
companies upon a par with the domestic ones doing business
in Kentucky. No stipulation or agreement being required as
a condition for coming into the State and obtaining a permit
to do business therein, the mere enactment of a statute which,
in substance, says if you choose to exercise your right to reVOL. ccii-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
DAY and HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

move a case into a Federal court, your right to further do business within the State shall cease and your permit shall be
withdrawn, is not open to any constitutional objection. The
reasoning in the Doyle case we think is good.
The orders heretofore entered dismissing the writs of error
in these cases are set aside, and the judgments of the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, with whom concurs MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.
In view of the importance and far-reaching effect of the decision just announced, and being unable to concur therein, we
have deemed it not improper to briefly state the grounds upon
which our objection to the, decision of the court rests.
Certain principles of constitutional law are firmly settled by
the decisions of this court and need no citation of cases in their
support. The Constitution of the United States and the laws
passed in pursuance thereof are the supreme law of the land,
and of controlling authority over all the people, and in all the
States of the Union. It is equally well settled that the privilege of resorting to the Federal courts for litigation of rights in
controversies between citizens of different States is created by
and exercised under authority of the Constitution of the United
States, which secures to citizens of another State, when sued
by a citizen of a State in which the suit is brought, the absolute right to remove their cases into the Federal court upon
compliance 'With the terms of the act of Congress enacted to
effect that purpose. This principle was announced in terms
in Insurance Company v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, has never been
questioned, and is affirmed in frequent decisions of this court.
No state regulation in hostility to this principle can be recognized without endangering the supremacy of the National
Constitution.
The Kentucky statute imposes but a single condition neces-

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 259
202 U. S.

DAY and HARLAN, JJ., dissenting.

sary to be now considered upon the right of foreign corporations to do business in that State. It says in effect to a company not yet licensed to transact business within its borders,
there is no objection to the company transacting business in
this State; on the other hand, it is desirable that it shall do so,
subject to the condition that the company cease to do business
in the State and its license be revoked the moment it attempts
to avail itself bf its constitutional right to remove a controversy
into the Federal court under the terms of the Federal statute
passed to make the constitutional right effectual. From that
time its further right to do business shall cease and determine
and its license be revoked.. To companies lawfully within the
State, as are the appellants in these cases, it makes the like
proposition: You may carry on your business, having coinplied with other conditions, but the moment you undertake
to exercise the constitutional right of removal to a Federal
court your license shall be revoked, and all authority to do
business in the State shall cease. That this can be constitutionally done is affirmed in the decision of the court in these
cases, because of the principle that the State, having the right
to exclude foreign corporations from its borders, may do so
for any reason, although such action, as in the present case,
is based solely upon the denial of the right of removal in proper
cases by a non-resident citizen, of cases coming within the act
of Congress, to the Federal courts.
As a general proposition it is undoubtedly true that a State
may prevent foreign corporations, at least those not engaged
in interstate commerce, from doing business within its borders
and, may impose iestrictions upon the right to transact local
business as it may see fit. But this right in our opinion is not
without limitation. It is the established doctrine of this court
that a restriction of this power is found in the denial- of the right
to a State to impose a condition in direct conflict with the Con.stitution of the United States, in requiring a corporation, as a
sole condition of doing business within the State, to surrender
the right of removal created and enforced by the Federal Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
DAY

and HARLAN, JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

stitution and laws in advance, or give it up after its admission
to do business in the State.
The question came directly before this court in the case of
Insurance Company v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, in which it was
held that a State might not require a foreign corporation, as a
condition of doing business within its borders, to file an agreement that such company would not remove the suit for trial
into a United States Circuit Court or other Federal court. The
act was held to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States and the laws passed in pursuance thereof, as it denied
the right of removal secured to the citizens of another State
by the Constitution and laws of the United States. The question arose again in the case of Doyle v. Continental Insurance
Co., 94 U. S. 535. In that case it was held by the majority
of the court, Mr. Justice Bradley, Mr. Justice Miller and Mr.
Justice Swayne dissenting, that the State of Wisconsin might
lawfully enact a statute providing that if any foreign insurance
company should transfer a suit brought in the State to a Federal court its license to do business would be cancelled and
revoked, and the doctrine was laid down that as a State had
the right to exclude the company for any reason, the means
by which it should cause such exclusion or the motives of her
action were not the subjects of judicial inquiry. Thus the decisions of this court stood until the case of Barron v. Burnside,
121 U. S. 186, was brought to its attention, in which it was
held that a statute of Iowa, requiring a foreign corporation, as
a condition of doing business in the State, to stipulate that it
would not remove cases into the Federal court, which it had
the right under the laws of the United States to remove, was
void. And the case of Insurance Co. v. Morse, supra, was approved, and Doyle v. Continental Insurance Co., supra, qualified
and explained.. In this case Mr. Justice Blatchford delivered
the unanimous opinion of the court. It is apparent from its
perusal that the principle stated in insurance Co. v. Morse and
in the dissenting opinion in the Doyle case was recognized and
affirmed, and the unqualified right of exclusion denied. After

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 261
202 U. S.

DAY

and

HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

showing that the right to remove was the creation of the Federal Constitution and laws and could not be impaired without
deprivationof a Federal right, the ground of the decision was
stated to be:
"As the Iowa statute makes the right to a permit dependent
upon the surrender by the foreign corporation of a privilege
secured to it by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
the statute requiring the permit must be held to be void."
And further, in speaking of the Doyle case:
"The point of the decision seems to have been that, as the
tate had granted the license, its officers would not be restrained
)y injunction, by a court of the United States, from withdrawng it. All that there is in the case beyond this, and all that
is said in the opinion which appears to be in conflict with the
adjudication in Insurance Co. v. Morse, must be regarded as
not in judgment."
And that the court did not regard the right of a corporation
in that respect as differing from that of an individual is shown
in. theobservation:
"Its -right, equally with any individual citizen, to remove
into the Federal court, under the laws of the United States,
such suits as are mentioned in the 'third section of the Iowa
statute, is too firmly establisheat by the decisions of this court
to be questioned at this day; and the State of Iowa might as
well pass a statute to deprive an individual citizen of another
State of his right to remove such suits."
In concluding the decision the court said:
"n all the cases in which this court has considered the subject of -the granting by a State to a foreign corporation of its
consent to the transaction of business in the State, it has uniformly asserted that no conditions can be imposed by the State
which are repugnant to-dthe Constitutiofi and laws of the United
States. La Fayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404, 407;-Ducat
v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410, 415; InsuranceCo. v. Morse, 20 Wall.
445, 456; $t. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350, 356; Phila. Fire Assn.
v. New York,-lt9 U. S. 110, 120."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
DAY

and

HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

It is thus apparent that the decision was made to turn, not
upon the question of whether the agreement not to remove had
been required in advance, or'imposed as a condition of remaining in the State after entry therein, but rested upon the doctrine that, conceding the right of the State to exclude foreign
corporations, its right to do business within the State could not
be conditioned upon the surrender of a privilege secured to it
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that
the right to remove given to a foreign citizen or corporation
was a right thus secured. The doctrine of Barron v. Burnside
is in our judgment decisive of the contention made in the
present case. If it be true, as specifically declared in that case,
that the right to exclude a foreign corporation could not be
made to depend solely upon the surrender by the foreign corporation of this constitutional right and privilege, it irresistibly follows that its application is fatal to the constitutionality
of the statute here in question. The right of the insurance
company under the present statute to do business within the
State of Kentucky turns upon its willingness to surrender this
privilege. If it will do so, it may continue to do business within
the State; if it will not, its license will be revoked and its right
to do local businesA destroyed. In short, it may continue to
do business within the State, if it will consent to the surrender
of a Federal right. We think this brings the
case squarely
within the limitations of* the right of the State
to exclude
foreign corporations from its midst, and, to sustain the statute,
jermits a State, because of the exercise of a constitutional
.right, to close its gates to corporations equally entitled with
private citizens in, this respect to the protection given by the
Constitution. The doctrine that the surrender of rights granted
or- secured by the Constitution of the United States may be
*made a coiition of the privilege of doing or continuing business within a State is at war with that instrument, and if
adopted or sanctioned by all the States would nullify' the supreme lbw of the land in some of its most essential provisions.
An examination of the decisions subsequent to Barron v.

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 263
202 U. S.

DAY and HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

Burnside, supra, is convincing to the effect that- it has been
accepted by the courts, National and State, as decisive of the/
proposition therein announced, that a state statute giving the
right to do business or to terminate a business already instituted, upon the sole condition of the surrender of a Federal
right, secured by the Constitution, is void and of no effect.
The case, thus interpreted, has been cited and followed in subsequent cases in this and other Federal courts.
,In Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U.'S. 202, 207, Mr.
Justice Gray, delivering the unanimous judgment of this court
and referring to a statute of Texas similar to the one now under consideration, said: "That statute, requiring the corporation, as a condition precedent to obtaining a permit to do business within the State, to surrender a right and privilege
secured toit by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
was unconstitutional and void, and could give no validity or
effect to any agreement or action of the corporation in obedience to its provisions," citing Insurance Company v. Morse and
Barronv. Burnside. The same eminent judge, delivering again
the unanimous judgment -of this court in Martin v. Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad, 151 U. S. 673, 684, and again citing the
Morse and Barron cases, said: "Thd Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, not being a cofporation of West Virginia, but
only -a corporation of Maryland, licensed by West Virginia to
act as such within its territory, and liable to be sued in its
courts, had the right 'under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, when so sued .by a citizen of this State, to remove the suit into the Circ'uit Court of the United States; and
could not have been deprived of that right by any provision
in the statutes of the State.". Again, upon the authority of
the same cases, including the Denton case, this court, by its
unanimous judgment in Barrow Steamship Co. v. Kane, 170
U. S. 100, 111, said: "So statutes requiring foreign corporations, as a condition of being permitted to do business within
the State, to stipulate not to remove into the courts of the
United States suits brought against them in the courts of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Day and

HARLAN,

U,

issnting.

202 U. S.

State, have been adjudged to be unconstitutional and void."
To the same effect was the case of Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.
239, 255, 256, in whieh it was said, upon the authority of the
Morse, Barron and Denton cases: "It was accordingly adjudged
in Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186, 200, that an Iowa statute
requiring every foreign corporation named in it, as a condition
of obtaininga license or permit to transact business in, that
State, to stipulate that it would not remove into the Federal
courts suits that were removable from the state courts under
the laws of the United States, was void because it made the
right to do business upder a license or permit dependent upon
the surrender 'bv the corporation of a privilege secured to it
by the Constitution. . . . So statutes requiring foreign
corporations, as a condition of being permitted to do business
within the State, to stipulate not to remove into the courts of
'the United States 'suits brought against them in the courts
of the State, have been adjudged to be unconstitutional and
void." In Chattanooga,R. & .C. R. :Co. v. Evans, '66 Fed. Rep.
809, 814, heard before Judges Taft, Lurton and Sev-erens, the
'Circuit 'Court of Appeals for -the Sixth Circuit, speaking by
Judge Lurton and referring to the Morse' and Barron cases,
recognized the right of the State to prescribe terms upon which
a corporation of 'another State or ,country may carry on business within its borders, but taking care at the same time to
say: "That there are limitations upon this power is equally
well settled, for it cannot impose as a condition that such nonresident corporation shall not resort to the courts of the Uni.ted
States."
In Bigelow v. Nickerson, 70 Fed. Rep. 113, Judge Jenkins,
speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit,
after reviewing the cases in this court, said:
"We consider the question foreclosed, and no longer open to
discussion. No condtion imposed upon a right granted by
a State, which prevents one from availing himself of his ,constitutional prerogative of appeal to the courts of the United
States can 'be upheld."

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 265
202 U. S.

DAY

and

HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

In Reimers v. Seatco Manufacturing Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 573,
Judge Taft, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth
Circuit, said:
"The right of a State to impose conditions upon foreign corporations doing business therein is not unlimited. In Insurance Co. v. French, 18 How. 404, Mr. Justice Curtis, spealding
for the Supreme Court said:
" 'A ;corporation created by Indiana can transact business
in Ohio only with the consent, express or implied, of the latter
State. Bank v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519. This consent may be accompanied by such conditions as Ohio may think fit to impose,
and these conditions must be deemed valid and effectual by
other States and by this court, provided they are not repugnant
to the Constitution or laws of the United States, or inconsistent with those rules of public law which secure the jurisdiction
and authority of each State from encroachment by all others,
or that -principle of natural justice which forbids condemnation
without opportunity for defense.'
"In Southern Pacific Co.. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, it was held
that the law which permitted a non-resident corporation to do
business within its territory on condition that it should forfeit
such permit if it removed a suit brought against it into the
court of the United States hel(l within the State, was unconstitutionai and void, and ,could give no validity and effect to
any agreement or action of the corporation in obedience to its
provisions, because it thereby was compelled to surrender a
right and privilege secured to it by the Constitution and laws
of the United States; citing Insiwrance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall.
445, and Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186."
Notwithstanding these cases, it is now adjudged that so far
as the -Constitution of the United States is concerned, it is competent for any State to withdraw or cancel a license given to
a corporation of another State to do business within its limits
whenever and solely because that corporation, being sued in -a
state court, has the case removed to the Federal court for trial
or hearing. If each State should enact a statute, such as ithe

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
DAY

and

HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

one before us, the right secured to a corporation when sued in
the courts of a State other than the one creating it, to invoke
the jurisdiction of the Federal court, would be abrogated
throughout the whole United States, although such right is
secured by the Constitution and by valid acts of Congress.
We cannot assent. to this view. It amounts to a practical
nullification in respect to such corporations of the supreme law
of the land and places important constitutional rights at the
mercy of the several States.
In the State from which this case comes, after a full review
of the decisions of this court, the same conclusion was reached
in Commonwealth v. East Tenn. Coal Co., 97 Kentucky, 238.
The same view of the effect of Barron v. Burnside has been
accepted by the text-writers. 2 Cook on Corporations, 3d ed.
1675; Moon, Removal of Causes (1901), §§ 30 and 31, and notes
in which the author expresses the view that the Doyle case has
become obsolete and is practically overruled by Barronv. Burnside and subsequent cases in this court, § 30, note 3; Curtis'
Jurisdiction of the United States Courts, 2d ed. by Merwin,
187.
The principles announced in Doyle v. Ins. Co. and Barron v.
Burnside are directly opposed the one to the other, and cannot
both prevail. The former case was decided upon the principl6
that as the State has the full right to exclude a foreign corporation it may do so for any reason or for no reason. The latter
case qualified this doctrine with.the limitation that the exclusion may not be solely because the corporation was exercising
or would not yield the right to avail itself of a privilege,:ieated
and protected by the Federal Constitution.
After such repeated affirmance and general accepthnce, we
do not think the doctrine announced in Barron V.Burnside
ought to be qualified or detracted from, and certai'ily it seems
to us that the court should not return to the rejected doctrine
of the Doyle case.
If a State may lawfully withhold the right :6f transacting
business within its borders or exclude foreign co!nporations from

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 267
202 U. S.

.DAY and

HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

the State upon the condition that they shall surrender a constitutional right given in the privilege of the companies to appeal to the courts of the United States, there is nothing to
prevent the State from applying the same doctrine to any other
constitutional right, which, though differing in character, has.
no higher or better protection in the Constitution than the one
under consideration. If the State may make the right to transact business dependent upon the surrender of one constitutional
privilege, it may do so upon another, and finally upon all. In
pursuance of the principle announced in this case, that the
right of the State to exclude, includes the right, when exercised
for any reason or for no reason, the State may say to the foreign corporation,-You may do business within this State, pro-vided you will yield all right to be protected against deprivation of jroperty without due process of law; or provided you
surrender your right to have compensation for your property
when taken for private use, or provided you surrender all right
to the equal protection of laws; and so-on through the category of rights secured by the Constitution and deemed essential to the protection of people and corporations living under
our institutions. This dangerous doctrine, asserted in' the
majority opinion in the Doyle case, destroyed and overthrown
as we think in Barron v. Birnside, which latter case has been
consistently and repeatedly followed in this court and in other
courts, Federal and Stae, from that day to this, ought not
now to be rehabilitated! and restored to its power to Work destruction of rights deemed so essential to the safety of citizens,
natural and artifigiial, that they 'have been secured by the
provisions of the Federal Constitution.
in the opinion of the court ii this case the doctrine that a
corporation; cannot be permitted to be deprived of its right to
do business because of the assertion of a Federal right is said
not to be denied, because theq right of a foreign corporation
to do business in a State is nt secured or guaranteed by the
Feleral Cdnstitution. Conceding the soundness of this general proposition, it by no means follows that a foreign corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
DAY

and

HARLAN,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U..S.

tion may be excluded solely because it exercises a right secured
by the Federal Constitution. For, conceding the right of a
State to exclude foreign corporations, we must not overlook
the limitation upon that right, now equally well settled in the
jurisprudence of this court, that the right to do business cannot be made to depend upon the surrender of a right created
and guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. If this were
otherwise, the State would be permitted to destroy a right
created and l)rotected by the Federal Constitution under the
guise of exercising a privilege belonging to the State, and, as
we have pointed out, the State might thus deprive every foreign corporation of the right to do business within its borders,
except upon the condition that it strip itself of the protection
given it by the Federal Constitution. Furthermore, it is stated
in the prevailing opinion that while the State may exclude in
advance or del)rive a foreign corporation of the privilege of
doing business after it is lawfully in the State, because of the
exercise of a Federal right, it cannot require the corporation
to agree in advance that it will waive such right, as that, it
is adiutted, would be unconstitutional.
We think the distinction is without a substantial difference
and makes the validity of the act turn upon the means of attaining the same unlawful end. In either alternative the corporation is excluded from the State because it will not consent
to surrender the right given it under the Federal Constitution.
While we concede the right of a State to exclude foreign corporations from doing business within its borders for reasons
not destructive of Federal rights, we deny that the right can
be made to depend upon the surrender of the protection of the
Federal Constitution, which secures to alien citizens the right
to resort to the courts of the United States.
In the cases decided inthis court subsequently to Barron v.
Burnside, while the general proposition is affirmed that a State
may prescribe conditions upon which a foreign corporation may
do business within its borders, in no one of them is it asserted
that the State may exclude or expel such corporations because

SECURITY MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. PREWITT. 269
202 U. S.

DAY and HARLAN, JJ., dissenting.

they insist upon the exercise of a right created by the Federal
Constitution. On the contrary, this court has repeatedly said
that such right of exclusion was qualified by the superior right
of all citizens to enjoy the protection of the Federal Constitution. The Federal authority gives no right to deny to the citizens of a State access to the local courts of a State. For wise
purposes the Federal Constitution has provided courts for
citizens of different States, believed to be free from local influence and prejudice, and laws have been passed by Congress
to make the privilege of resort to them effectual. In our view
no state enactment can lawfully abridge this right orr:destroy
it, directly or indirectly, by affixing heavy penalties to its assertion by those lawfully entitled to'its enjoyin ent. W 'think
Barron v. Burnside was intended to overrule the contrary declaration which is found only in the Doyle case, which is inconsistent with or opposed-to every other declaration directly upon
the subject in the opinions of this court.
We are of opinion that the statute in question, so far as it "
authorizes the cancellation of a license given by a State to a
corporation to do business within its limits, whenever such
corporation, in the exercise of a constitutional right, has a
suit brought against it in a state court removed to the Federal court for trial, is unconstitutional and void.
For the reasons stated we are constrained to dissent.

