446

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

202 U. S.

COX v. TEXAS.
COX v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
Nog. 266, 267. Argued April 27. 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.
The provisions in the liquor tax law of 1895 of Texas in regard to the sale
of liquor to niinors, and the liability of the licensee on the bond required
to be given in regard thereto, are not unconstitutional under the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because, by the terms
of the statute, they do not apply to wines produced from grapes grown
in the State while in the hands of the producers or manufacturers thereof,
it not appearing that there are any distinct classes of liquor dealers, one
selling their own domestic wines, and another selling all intoxicants
except domestic wines. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540, distinguished.
Where the constitutionality of a state statute is assailed in the state court
solely on the ground of its conflict with one specified provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and that Amendment standing alone does not
touch the case, other provisions of the Constitution cannot be invoked
in this court to give those set up a more extensive application.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. C. McReynolds, with whom were Mr. F. E. Albright,
Mr. E. C. Orrick, Mr. J. C. Terrell, Jr. and Mr. Dewey Langtord, on a separate brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The exemption from its general provisions of wines produced
from domestic grapes, while in the hands of producers or manufacturers, renders the law obnoxious to the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Intoxicating liquors are recognized by the constitution and
laws of Texas as legitimate articles of commerce.
So long as state legislation recognizes intoxicants as articles of lawful consumption and commerce, the Federal courts
must affo, to such use and commerce the same measure

COX v. TEXAS.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

of protection, under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, as is given to other articles. Leisy v. Hardin, 135
U. S. 100; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58.
The peculiar quality of alchoholic liquors justifies discrimination which may tend to temperance and sobriety but when
that object is not really present the power to so discriminate
does not exist. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
The State, 'Without adequate reason therefor, has attempted
to give a special privilege and exemption to producers and
manufacturers of domestic grape wines, and has thereby
denied the equal protection of the laws to all others engaged
in like traffic. The distinction is not justified by the reason
which must support the harsh restrictions imposed generally
on liquor dealers-the necessity of mitigating the evils of intoxication; nor does it aid in enforcing the law. in an administrative way or otherwise. Texas grape wines are not
innocuous because peddled out by a manufacturer, and are no
less deleterious to health and morals than similar wines from
other States. To permit their unrestricted sale tends rather
to defeat than to aid the purpose which must be relied on to
support the general provisions of the law.
A classification is made which amounts to a discrimination
and violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
The State could not, in a pure revenue measure, require
dealers in foreign wines to pay a tax and operate under stringent
regulations while exempting therefrom persons engaged in
selling domestic wines. Revenue laws may sometimes properly
discriminate between producers and dealers, but there must
always be therefor some clear and adequate reason. Gulf,
Colorado &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
Mr. Charles K. Bell, Mr. R. V. Davidson, Attorney General
of Texas, and Mr. Claude Pollard, for'defendants in error,
submitted:
There is no inherent right in a citizen to sell intoxicating

OCTOBERt TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

liquors.

'202 U. S.

It is not a privilege of a citizen of a State, or of a citi-

zen of the United States which the States are forbidden to
abridge. It is a right exercisable only subject to the police
powers of the State. Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25;
Battemeyer v. Louisiana, 18, Wall. 129; Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 659; Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 206; Norton v.
Jamison, 154 U. S. 591; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86;
Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1.
The statutes in question are not repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The constitutional guaranties of the Fourteenth Amendment, that no State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, were not intended to
limit the subjects upon which the police power of a State may
lawfully be exerted, for these guaranties have never been construed as being incompatible with the principle, equally vital,
because so essential to peace and safety, that all property is
held under the implied obligation that the owner's use of it
shall not be injurious to the public. Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S.
180; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not overthrow state laws,
rights and remedies to the extent and purposes for which it is
often cited. Anderson v. Henry, 45 W. Va. 319; License
Cases, 5 How. 577; American Sugar Ref. Co. v. Louisiana,
177 U. S. 89; Reymann Brewing Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S.
445; Barbier v. Connolly,'113 U. S. 27:
The plaintiffs in error not being engaged in the. sale of
wines exclusively, but being also engaged in the sale of other
intoxicating' liquors than wines, cannot challenge the validity
of the -Texas statutes. Tiernan v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123;
Powell v. State, 69 Alabama, 13; McCrearyv. State, 73 Alabama,
482; Bogan v. State, 84 Alabama, 450.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are two suits upon a statutory bond executed by the
plaintiffs in error as principal and sureties. There were ver-

COX v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

dicts and judgments against the plaintiffs in error, whereupon
motions were made for new trials, setting up that the act under
which the bond was given was contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States as denying to persons within the jurisdiction the equal protection of
the law. The motions were overruled, and an appeal was
taken to the Court of Civil Appeals. That court affirmed the
judgments below, 85 S. W. Rep. 1199; 85 S. W. Rep. 34, a
motion for a rehearing was overruled, an application for a writ
of error was refused by the Supreme Court of the State, and
thereupon the cases were taken to this court.
The bond in suit was given by a liquor seller and was conditioned, among other things, against selling intoxicating liquors to minors, or allowing minors to enter and remain in the
obligor's place of business. The breaches found were breaches
of the conditions recited. These suits were brought by the
defendants in error respectively, the State of Texas, and the
parent of the minor. They seem to have been tried together,
and the records are so similar that they properly have been
treated by counsel as one.
The Statutes of Texas provide for taxes on sellers of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or medicated bitters. Rev. Civil
Sts. 1895, Arts. 5060a, 5060b. They require an application for
a license, giving details, a payment of the annual tax as a condition of obtaining the same, and the giving of a bond like the
one in suit. Arts. 5060c-5060g. See amendments, St. 1897,
c. 158; 1901, c. 136. They also enact, however, that "the
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to wines produced
from grapes grown in this State, while the same is in the hands
of the producers or manufacturers thereof." Art. 5060i. This
article is thought to invalidate those which precede. The
matters of discrimination relied upon are the tax and the requirement of the bond. It may be proper to add that there
.was a demurrer, setting up generally that the statute was unconstitutional because of this article, but until the motion for
a new trial was made there was no sufficient settings.up of a
VOL. ccii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 11. S.

defense under the Constitution of the United States. Kipley v.
Illinois, 170 U. S. 182; Layton v. Missouri, 187 U. S. 356.

The main argument addressed to us was rested on the notion
that the statutes discriminate unconstitutionally between two
classes of persons in the State, naturally existing there, as in
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, there was a
discrimination with regard to trusts in favor of producers and
raisers of agricultural products and live stock. This argument
seems to us a fallacy. Farmers and stock raisers are classes
naturally existing in the community, carrying on distinct callings and not likely to be engaged in anything else. Hence,
although farmers and stock raisers equally with others were prohibited from forming trusts for other purposes, to permit them
to form trusts in their regular business was practically and in
fact to discriminate between two classes and others. The case
was discussed throughout on the footing of classification. But,
so far as we know, there is no natural distinction of classes
among liquor sellers-one class selling their own domestic wines
alone, another selling all intoxicants except domestic wines.
The statutes regulate the doing of certain things, which presumably all liquor sellers would prefer to be free to do. Therefore whatever other objections there may be to them they do
not deny the equal protection of the laws by forbidding without justification. to one what they permit to another class.
There is one slight qualification necessary to what we have
said. It is true that there is granted to the producers and manufacturers of wine from grapes grown in Texas an immunity in
respect of that wine which is not granted to other sellers of the
same wine. To that extent, but to that extent alone, favor is
shown to a class. But this is not the class discrimination put
forward and insisted upon. The attack is not mainly on the
distinction between producers and other sellers of domestic
wine, but upon that between those producers and the sellers
of other wine. The latter, as we have said, is not a true
class distinction. Whether there is a difference in the scope.
of a State's general power to legislate and its power to tax or

COX v. TEXAS.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not (Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 26, Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S.540, 562, 563), the former does not need
an extended defense so far as the Fourteenth Amendment
alone is concerned. See American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,.179 U. S.89; Reymann Brewing Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S.
445; St. John Y. New York, 201 U. S.633.
That part of the Fourteenth Amendment which forbids the
abridgement bf the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States was not referred to or relied upon in the motion
for a new trial or in the assignment of errors before the Court of
Civil Appeals. It is mentioned for the first time in the assignment of errors before this court. Chicago, Indianapolis &
Louisville Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 196 U. S.128, 132. In view of
the decisions we hardly suppose that the omission was by mistake. Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S.86; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S.657; Cronin v.
Adams, 192 U. S. 108. The truth is that the Fourteenth
Amendment does not touch the case, standing alone, and, if
so, other provisions of the Constitution which were not invoked
cannot be brought in now under cover of the reference to the
Fourteenth Amendment to give the latter a more extensive application to the case than it would have when taken by itself.
If the States were restricted by the Fourteenth Amendment
only, and saw fit to encourage domestic production, or thought
to promote temperance, or to help to secure pure wine, by statutes such as those before us, there would be nothing to hinder
them. If the statutes are open to objection as improperly
interfering with commerce am6ng the States, Tiernanv. Rinker,
102 U. S. 123, Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, the right
which springs from Art. 1, ยง 8, of the Constitution cannot be
used to enlarge for the purposes of this case the privileges and
immunities or the equal protection of the laws secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193,
198. The converse case of a right set up under Art. 1, ยง 8,
and an attempt to support it by the Fourteenth Amendment,
was decided in Keokuk and Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN,

BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

175 U. S. 626, 633. See further Hardingv. Illinois, 196 U. S.
78,86.
It is proper to say that Art. 1, ยง 8, is referred to in the assignments of error before the Court of Civil Appeals and before this
court. But it does not appear that the Court of Civil Appeals
dealt with the point and probably it refused to do so on the
ground that the section was not relied upon before the trial
court. We cannot say that it erred, even if it did, unless that
ground is excluded. Jacobi v. Alabama, 187 U. S.133; Erie
Railroadv. Purdy, 185 U. S. 148. The case was argued beforeus on the Fourteenth Amendment alone, and although there
is some slight reference to Interference with commerce in one
of the briefs, it is rather in aid of the argument based on Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Company, 184 U. S. 540, than as an
independent point. At all events the question is not open here.
We believe that we have said enough to dispose of the cases.
Whether, even if the statute is invalid as to wines made in other
States, the bofid may be valid, in view of the applications having extended to the sale of spirituous liquors, Tiernan v. Rinker,
102 U. S. 123, or otherwise, it is unnecessary to inquire.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JusTICE HARLAN, dissenting. I do not understand that
the court modifies the principles announced in-Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S.446, or in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S.540. In my judgment, those cases are applicable to
and control this 'case, and require a reversal of the judgment
below upon the ground that the statute of Texas is in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. I therefore dissent

from the opinion and judgment of the court. MR. JUSTICE
BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BROWN concur in this dissent.

