OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S.

entered in this cause on the fifteenth day of January, A. D.
1894; and that that part of the interlocutory order entered in
this cause on the third day of January, A. D. 1893, whereby
it was 'ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court that the
boundary line between the State of Iowa and the State of Illinois is the middle of the main navigable channel of the Mississippi river at the places where the nine bridges mentioned in
the pleadings cross said river,' be declared the final order, judgment, and decree of this court in this cause.
"CHAs.

W., MULLAN,

"Attorney General of "Iowa.
"W. H. STEAD,
"Attorney General of Illinois."
PER CURIAM: In consideration whereof and of the decision
of this court reported 147 U. S. 1, it is ordered, adjudged and
decreed that the boundary line between the State of Iowa and
the State of Illinois is the middle of the main navigable channel
of the Mississippi river at the places where .the nine bridges
mentioned in the pleadings cross said river.

OREGON v. IIT

ITCOCK.

IN EQUITY.
No. 16, Original.

Argued April 5, 6, 1906.-Deci(led April 23, 1906.

In the absence of any act of Congress waiving immunity of the United
States or consenting that it be sued in respect to swanp lands, either
within or without an Indian reservation, or of any act of Congress asstiniing full responsibility in behalf of its wards, the Indians, affectinig their
rights to such lands, this court has no jurisdiction of am action brought.
by a State against the Secretary of the. Interior and Commissioner of
the General Land Office to enjoin them from patenting to Indians lands
within that State, claimed by the State under the swam t ) land acts.

I i!i!ii!i ,!i
i',, i ,i

'°
!!ii
i ii!i
il i

! i,i ,i'i,,iiii

i iiio
! i

! iiiii %ii

OREGON v. HITCHCOCK.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The fact that the action is brought by a State against the'Secretary of the
Interior, who is a citizen of a different State, does not give this Court
jurisdiction as the real party in interest is the United States.
It is not the province of the courts to interfere with the administration
of the Land Department, and until the land is patented inquiry as to
equitable rights comes within the cognizance of the Department and
the courts will not anticipate its action.

By leave of court the State of Oregon filed an original bill
against Ethan A. Hitchcock, Secretary of the Interior, and
William A. Richards,*Commissioner of the GeneralLand Office,
to restrain, the defendants from allotting or patenting to any
Indians or other persons certain lands within the limits of the
Klamath Reservation, 'which it is alleged were on March 12,
1860, swamp and overflowed lands, and praying a decree establishing the title of the State of Oregon to such lands and
declaring that the, title is subject only to such right of temporary and terminable occupation as may exist in the Indians at
present occupying'th6 said reservation, and is not to be defeated by any allotment, patent, agreement or other arrangement. To this bill the defendants filed a demurrer, partly on
jurisdictional, grounds and partly on the merits.
For a clear understanding of the questions presented the allegations in the 'bill'must.be stated.. It is alleged that the defendan t Hitchcock is a citizen of the State of Missouri, the
defendant Richards of the State of Wyoming; that by an act
of Congress, approved February 14, 1859, 11 Stat. 383, Oregon
was admitted into the Urfion; that by an act approved September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 51.9, Congress granted to the State of
Arkansas and Other States all lands, *ith'in' their r'espcc (ive
limits, which at the"date of the act were "swamp and overflowed.lands, aan(l by'reason thereof unfit for cultivation; that
by an act of March 12, 18130, 12 Stat. 3, the provisions of the
last-named' act were extended to -the State of oregon; that on
February 14,-1859,as well'as 'on March 12, 1860, the United
'States owned in fee sinjlle a .large region and body of land ly•ing within the boundaries of the State of Oregon, which said
body of land was neither reserved nor dedicated to any public

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

use and was free from any claim of title or possession, saving
and excepting a right to temporary use and occupation belonging to certain Indian tribes; that within this large body of
lands were three tribes or bands of Indians-the Klamaths, the
Modocs and the Yahooskins--few in number, that number
being estimated by the officials of the United States in charge
at from 1,200 to 1,500; that they were all in a savage state,
uncivilized, without a fixed place of abode and roaming from
place to place within the region; that they had no other kind
of tenure or title than-that which they and their ancestors held
from time immemorial and before the settlement of white men
in the territory; that on October 14, 1864, 16 Stat. 707, a treaty
was negotiated between the United States and these tribes of
Indians, by which they ceded to the United States their right,
title and claim tgall these lands, except a certain specified and
smaller tract within the original out-boundaries, which was
created a reservation for their use; that said reservation was
continued in the occupation of the Indians according to the
aboriginal usages and customs of SWid Indians and of Indians
generally, without any claim or pretense of permanent title or
individual right to the lands, or any of them, and without any
steps taken towards conferring the ultimate title upon them
until after the year 1899, When the defendant Hitchcock, Secretary of the Interior, directed and caused a large portion of
the lands to be surveyed and divided into numerous definite
lots or tracts, for the purpose and with the intention of allotting
such tracts to the individual members of the tribes, to be by
them held in severalty, and the further purpose of issuing and
delivering to each of them a patent declaring that the United
States holds the tract allotted in trust for the Indian and his
heirs for a period of twenty-five years, and that at the expiration of such period it will convey the tract to him or his heirs
discharged of the trust and free from all incumbrances; that
in this the defendant Hitchcock was assuming and professing
to act under the authority of the act of Congress of February 8,
1887, 24 Stat. 388; that within the reservation made by the

OREGON v. HITCHCOCK.
202 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

treaty of 1864 were large tracts, which had been and were on
March 12, 1860, swamp and overflowed lands and unfit for cultivation, and hence under the act of March 12, 1860, had become the property of the State, subject only to the right of
occupancy on the part of the Indians; that in the year 1902,
before any patents were issued and while the surveying and
allotting were in progress, the State caused an examination to
be made for the purpose of ascertaining the tracts whi ch on
March 12, 1860, were swamp and overflowed lands, and a list
prepared of them, which list is attached to the bill as an exhibit; that it presented and filed that list with the surveyor
general of the United States for the State of Oregon, together
with evidence tending to prove that all of the tracts within the
list had been and were on March 12, 1860, swamp and overflowed lands and rendered thereby unfit for cultivation, which
evidence was found and certified by the surveyor general to be
gufficient. That thereupon the State selected and claimed said
tracts as granted to it by the act of Congress of March 12, 1860,
and applied to the proper officers of the United States to
inquire into and consider the claims of the State; that this application and the evidence was submitted to the defendant
Richards, as Commissioner of the General Land Office, and on
November 18, 1903, the Acting Commissioner denied and
rejected the claim upofi the sole ground that the lands, whether
swamp and overflowed or not, were not granted to the State of
Oregon by the act of Congress.. From this decision an appealP
was taken to the Secretary of the Interior, and the decision of
the Land Office affirmea.
Mr. Charles A. Keigwin, with whom Mr. Andrew M. Crawford auid Air. William B. Matthews were on the brief, for coniplainant:
The objection taken by the demurrer to the jurisdiction
of
the court is met by the decision in the recent case of Minnesota

v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373. The slatute of 1901 was necessary
only because of the 'difficulty of making the Indians parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

202 U. S.

which would have defeated the original jurisdiction of this
court. The statute was passedt, P
,ab. the United States to
be- the defendant on account of its absence of interest in the
suit and not on account of the immunity of. the Government
from suit.
Nor is a statute or other express warrant necessary to enable
.as.uit affecting the interest of the Government to be maintained against ,its officers. The immunity of the sovereign
from suit does not extend. to those who act for it; and the concern of the sovereign in the subject matter of a controversy
does not preclude the jurisdiction of the courts. While the
State may not be directly sued, the acts of those who assume
to act for the State may be examined, and such acts may be
enjoined even when taken or proposed. to be taken by direct
authorization of the sovereign. Even the fact that the State
has the entire ultimate interest in the controversy, and is solely
to be affected by the judgment, does.not prevent the maintenance of the action against the proper officers of the State.
Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Whieat. 738; United States v.
Peters, 5 Cranch, 115; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Allen v.
R. R. Co., 14 U. S. 311; Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92
U.; S. 531; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52; In re Ayres, 123
U. S. 443; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy,.140 U. S. 1; Rolston v.
Crittenden, 120 U. S. 390; Reagan v. Loan and Trust Co., 154
U. S. 362; Ex parte Tyler, 149 U. S. 164.
Where a Federal officer is made defendant, it is no objection
to the jurisdiction that the controversy involves the. property
or otherwise concerns the interest of the United States; nor
is it necessary, the case being of the character in which a state
officer might be sued,. that the Government should consent to
the suit being brought. United States' v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196;
Meigs v. McClung, 9 Cranch, '11 Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall.
363; Brown v. Huger, 21 .How. 305;. United States V. Schurz,
102 U. S. 378; Noble v. Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165.
In cases where jurisdiction is asserted on the ground of diverse citizenship, the Federal courts look only to the citizen-

OREGON v. HITCHCOCK.
202 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

ship of the parties named on the record, without regard to
their relationship to the c
r.p .the citizenship of those who,
4hough not parties, are the real -partie: inJJterest. Childress
v. Emory, 8 Wheat. 642; Rice v. Houston, .13 Wall.-66;.413onnafee v. WilMl67cks, 3 How- -574; Doe v. Tulleys, 144 U. S. 451;
1 Foster's Federal Practice, 3d ed. § 19.- Tie. same rule applie's where the defendant is sued in a purely official capacity
and the real interest is in the State of which he is an officer.
Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203.
With respect to the suggestion that the jurisdiction might
be ousted if one of the defendants should, in the progress of the
suit, be succeeded by a citizen of the comlainant State, the
rule seems to be settled, that, if the jurisdiction is properly
acquired by reason of the diverse citizenship of the original
parties, it is not defeated by such a change of parties as brings
citizens of the same State upon opposite sides of the record.
1 Foster's Federal Practice, § 19; Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S.
61; Phelps v. Oakes, 117 U. S. 236; Anderson v. Watt,. 138
U. S. 707; Tug River Co. v. Brigel, 86 Fed. Rep. 818.
,-As a second additional ground of. jurisdiction the present
cud,9s-is within -that clause of the Constitution which extends
the judicmilpower -of the Federal: courts "to all cases in law and
equity arising under this Corstitution, the laws of the Vnitedt
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority." In this case, the State claims the land under one
of the laws of the .United-iSttes,.the swamp land grant of Congress, and the defendants assert thiright to con trol and. dispose of the lands as the property of the..Uniiteff States in virtue
of an. aCt onf
Cogess pased'in 1848, of' treatyi'iiade with the
Indians in1864, and of a statute enacted in 1887. There can
be no -uestion of the fact that the case is within the class defined in the last quoted clause of the Constitution.'
The general rule that until patent is issued the courts will
.not interfere with the Land Department does not apply, to a
case like this UpOn the averments of the bill, and upon the
law applicable to the'facts'sttd, the State of Oregon has in the
VOL. CCII-5

OCTOBER- TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants.

202 U. S.

lands a vested title such as is recognized and protected by the
courts. Though the legal title remains in the United States, it
so remains only for the purpose of being transferred to the
Sta+., and though the legal title is under the conftrA Of tfi
Secretary of the Interior, the equitable title in the State is one
which that officer is bound to respect, and which he cannot
arbitrarily destroy or impair. Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S.
456, 461; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 478.
The duty of the courts in a proper case, to respect an equitable title is equally clear. The State being entitled to have the
lands patented, she is, so far as her right to be protected is concerned, in as favorable a situation as if patents had been, as
they should be, issued. Simmons v. Wagner, 101 U. S. 260;
Stark v. Starr, 6 Wall. 402.
So, universally, -the right conferred by a complete entry,
wanting only patent to consummate legal title, is property; the
land is not subject to other entry, and itis taxable as private.
property. Carrollv. Safford, 3 How. 441; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Railway Co. v. Prescott, 6 Wall. 603; Railroad
Co. v. Price Co., 133 U. S.496; Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S.
456. See also French v. Fyan, 93 U. S.169; Barney v. Dolph,
97 U. S. 652.
Mr. F. W. Clements, Assistant Attorney, and Mr. A. C. Campbell, Special Assistant to the Attoi'ney General, with whom
Mr. F. L. Campbell, Assistant Attorney General, was on the
brief, for defendants:
The case does not belong to that class wherein this court has
original jurisdiction. The judicial power belonging to the
United States is conferred by Article III of the Constitution,
and its limits are defined by the second section.
The mere fact that the State is the complainant is not
conclusive. Taylor's Jurisdiction Supreme Court, § 30; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, where jurisdiction was
conferred by special act of Congress. See also California v.
Sovlhern Pacific GO., 157 U. S.229.

OREGON v. HITCHCOCK.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendants.

But if it were conceded that the United States is the real
party in interest and would bc directly affected by the decree,
the court is without jurisdiction because the Government cannot be made a party defendant in any court without its consent, and consent has not been given in an laction such as is
here under consideration. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.
196.
If it be conceded that the doctrine is limited, or that it has
no application to a case like the one at bar, or that the defendants as officers of the Government are the proper parties
to the action, this court, although it might have appellate,
would not have original, jurisdiction. In such case the proper
forum for the institution of the suit would be the. Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia. United States v. Schurz,
102 U. S. 378; Union River Logging Company, 1.47 U. S. 165;
Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473. An injunction against individuals as officers of the Government is limited to a suit such
as is authorized by law and where the act enjoined is purely
ministerial in character. Taylor's -Jurisdiction of Supreme
Court, § 48; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443. The acts here sought
to be restrained are not ministerial in. character. Mississippi
v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378.
. The complainant has no interest in the subject matter of the
action. The lands are subject to allotment among the Indians. Neither have the defendants any interest in the subject
matter of the action as individuals. Minnesota v. Hitchcock,
supra.
Persons whose interests would be affected by a decree are
not made parties. If made parties the -jurisdiction of the
court would be defeated, if otherwise it had jurisdiction.
The allottee Indians are interested parties and will be materially affected by a decree in favor of the State; therefore
they should be made parties. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130;
.Chadbourne'sExecutors v. Coe, 10 U. S. App. 78. As the allottees are residents of Oregon and citizens thereof, Matter of Heif,
197 U. S. 488, if they are made parties the jurisdiction of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

court would for that reason, be ousted. Californiav. Southern
Pacific Company, 157 U. S. 229; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Company, 184 U. S. 199, 245.
The legal title to the lands involved is in the United States.
The State admits they are burdened with the Indian right of
occupancy. It is settled law that until the Indian right of
occupancy to lands has been extinguished the Indian Bureau,
of--which the Secretary of the Interior is the head, has jurisdiction and control over the lands so occupied. United States
v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 577. Until the legal title to the land
passes from the Government inquiry as to all equitable rights
comes within the cognizance of the Land Department. Brown
v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473; Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S. 480,
502.
The State admits in the bill of complaint that there has been
no finding by the Land Department, of which the Secretary of
the Interior is the head, that the lands were swamp or overflowed in character on March 12, 1860. Until such finding is
made and patent issued the'grant is in process of administration. Michigan Land & Lumber Company v. Rust, 168 U. S.
589, 591; New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 266.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question of jurisdiction of course precedes any inquiry
into the merits. By see. 2 of art. III of the Constitution and
sec. 687, Rev. Stat., this court has original jurisdiction of a suit
brought by a State against citizens of other States. Pennsylvania \v. Quicksilver Company, 10 Wall: 553; Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Company, 127 U. S. 265, 287, andt:cdse.:cfe'iin
the opinion; Californiav. Southern-Pacific el6pany, 157'U. S.
229, 258; Minnesota v. .Hithc;ck,185 U. S. 373. But the contention is that -he United States is the real party in interest as
defendant, that it cannot be sued without its consent, and that
it has given no consent. While the nominal defendants are

OREGON v. HITCHCOCK.
202 U. S.

Opinion of Ahe Court.

citizens of a State other than Oregon, yet they have no interest
whatever in the controversy, and if a decree be rendered against
tliem in favor of the State it will not affect their interests but
bind and determine the rightsof the United States, the real,
substantial defendant. It is further said that if there is any
other interest adverse to the plaintiff it belongs to the Klamath
Indians, who are not made parties, and that the rule in equity
is not to determine a suit without the presence of the parties
really to be affected by the decree. Californiav&Southern Pacific Company, supra.
The question of jurisdiction in a case very similar to this was
fully considered in Minnesota v. Hitchcock, supra. There, as
here, a State was plaintiff, and the suit was brought against
the Secretary. of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office to restrain them from selling school. sections 16
and 36 in what was known as the "Red Lake Indian Reservation." This suitis brought by a State against the same officers,
to restrain them from allotting, and patenting in severalty
.swamp lands wi thin the Klamath Indian Reservatiom. In that
case we said (p. 387):
"Now, the legal title. to these lands is in the United States.
The officers named as defendants have no interest in the lands
or the proceeds, thereof. The United States is proposing to sell
them. This suit seeks to restrain the United States from such
sale, to divest the Government of its'title and vest it in the
State. The United States is, therefore, the real party affected
by the judgment and against which in fact it will operate, and
the officers have no pecuniary interest in the matter. if
whether a suit is one against a State is to be deterfined, not
by the fact of the party named as defendant on the record, but
by the result of the judgment or decree which may be entered,
the same rule must apply to the United States. The question
whether the United States is a party to a controversy is not
determined by the merely nominal party on the record but by.
the question of the effect of the judgment or decree which can
be entered."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of tbu Court.

202 U. S.

It is true in that case we sustained the jurisdiction of this
court, but we did so by virtue of the act of March 2, 1901, 31
Stat. 950, which was held to be a consent on the part of the
United States to be sued in respect to school lands within an
Indian reservation and an acceptance by the Qovernment of
full responsibility for the result of the decision, so far as the
Indians, its wards, were concerned. But neither of the two
facts deemed essential to the maintenance of that suit appear
in this. There is no act of Congress waiving immunity of the
United States or coiisenting that it be sued in -respect to swamp
lands, either within or without an Indian reservation, and there
is no act of Congress assuming full responsibility in behalf of
its wards, the Indians, for the result of any suit affecting their
rights in these lands. It is, unnecessary to repeat all that was
said in that opinion in reference to these matters. It is sufficient to refer to it for a full discussion of the question.
Again; it must be noticed that the legal title to all 'these
tracts of land is still in the Government. No patents or con-veyanees of any kind have been executed. There has been no.
finding or adjudication by the Land Department that the lands
referred to were swamp or overflowed on March 12, 1860. Under those circumstances-tris not a province of the courts to
.interfere with the-Land Department in its admi'nistration. So
'far as a grantof swamp lands is claimed, it must be held that
the grant is in process of adiiinistration, and, until the legal
title p'asses from the Government, inquiry as to equitable rights
comes within the cognizance of the Land D) partiment. Courts
may not anticipate its action or take upon themselves the administration of the land grants of- the United States. New
Oi'ans Y. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 266; Michigan Land & Lumber
Company v. Rv4t, 168 U. S. 589, 591; United States v. Thomas,
151 U. S. 577; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473; Humbird
v. Avery, 195 U. S. 480, 502, 503.
For these reasons the demurrer is sustained and the bill is
Dismissed.

