UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.

563

Syllabus.

202 U. S.

opinion upon the question pressed at bar as to whether an order
Which was solely applicable to purely state business, directing
a carrier to deliver property upon a private track beyond the
line of the railway company, Would be repugnant to the due
process clause of the Constitution.
The final decree which the Circuit Court entered and the
writ of perpetual injunction issued thereon were, however,
much broader than the necessities of the case required, and
should be limited so as to adjudge the invalidity of the order
complained of, restrain the institution by the defendant of
suits or actions for the recovery of penalties or damages founded
upon the disobedience of such order, and forbid future interferences under like circumstances and conditions with the interstate commerce business of the railway company. As so
modified, the decree below is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 269.

Argued April 27, 1906.-Decided May 28, 1906.

Under the treaty between the United States and Cuba of December 11,
1902, and the act of Congress of December 17, 1903, .imports from Cuba
were not entitled to reduction of duties imposed by the tariff act of
July 24, 1897, until December 27, 1903, the date proclaimed by the
President of the United States and the President of Cuba for the commencement .of the operation of the treaty.
After the treaty was amended by the Senate and the amendment accepted
by Cuba the time of its going into effect was to be fixed by act of Congress
and not as originally fixed by the treaty ten days after the exchange of
ratifications.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

There is a presumption against retrospective legislation -and words in a
statute will not be construed as having such effect unless they clearly
can have no other effect, and the legislative intent cannot otherwise be
satisfied; and in this respect the use in the statute of the future tense
must be given weight.

question in the case is whether certain sugars which
were imported between the twelfth of June and the twentyeighth of September, 1903, were chargeable with full duties
under the tariff act of July 24, 1897, or were entitled to twenty
per cent reduction of duties prescribed by that act, under the
treaty between the United States and Cuba of the date December 11, 1902, and an act of Congress of December 17, 1903.
The answer to the question depends upon when the treaty went
into effect, whether upon the tenth of April, 1903, or the
twenty-seventh of December, 1903. The appellee contends
for the former and the appellant for the latter date. Duties
were assessed under the act of 1897 without reduction. Protests were filed and an appeal taken to the board of appraisers,
who sustained the collector. The decision of the board- was
reversed by the Circuit Court. The treaty provided, 33 Stat.
2136, 21.42, among other things as follows:"
"The President of the United States of America, and the
THE

President of the Republic of Cuba

.

.

.

have in consid-

eration of, and in compensation for, the respective concessions
and engagements made by one to the other as hereinafter
recited, agreed and do hereby agree upon the following articles
for the regulations and government of their reciprocal. trade,
namely:
Article II.
"During the term of this convention, all articles of merchandise not included in the foregoing Article I, and being the product of the soil or industry of the Republic of. Cuba imported
into the United States shall be admitted at a reduction of
twenty per centum of the rates of duty thereon as provided by
the tariff act -of the United States approved July 24, 1897, or

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

565

Statement of the Caae.

as may be provided by any tariff law of the United States subsequently enacted."
Article XI w%,V ..foolows:
"The present convention shall be ratified by the appropriate
authorities of the respective countries, and the ratifications §hall
be exchanged at Washington, District of Columbia, United
States of America, as soon as may be before the thirty-first
day of January, 1903, and the conrention shall go into effect on
the tenth day after the exchange of ratifications,and shall continue
in force for the term of five '(5) years from date of going into
effect, and from year to year thereafter until the expiration of
one year from the day when either of the contracting parties
shall give notice to the other of its intention to terminate the
same."
By supplemental treaty signed January 26, 1903, 33 Stat.
2145, it was provided that '. the respective ratifications of the
said convention shall be exchanged as soon as possible, and
Vifhin two months from January 31, 1903."
March 19, 1903, the Senate added the following amendment
at the end of Article XI; "This convention shall not take effect
until the same shall have been approved by the. Congress."
On March 31, 1903, ratifications were exchanged. At this
date Congress was not in session, but was convened in special
session November 9, 1903, and passed on December 17, 1903,
33 Stat. 3, an act entitled: "An act to carry into effect a convention between the United States and the Republic of Cuba,
signed on the eleventh day of December in the year 1902."
Section 1 provides as follows:
"That whenever the President of the United States shall receive satisfactory evidence that the Republic of Cuba has iade
provision to give full effect to the articles of the convention
between the United States and the Republic of Cuba, signed
on the eleventh day of December, in the year nineteen hundred
and two, he is hereby authorized to issue his proclamation declaring h? has received such evidence, and thereupon, on the
tenth day after exchange of ratifications of such convention be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Cae.

202 U. S.

tween the United States and the Republic of Cuba, and so long
as the said convention shall remain in force, all articles of merchandise being the product of the soil or industry of the Republic of Cuba, which are now imported into the United States
free of duty, shall continue to be so admitted free of duty, and
all other articles of merchandise being the product of the soil
or industry of the Republic of Cuba imported into the United
States shall be admitted at a reduction of twenty per centum
of the rates of duty thereon, as provided by the tariff act of
the United States approved July twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, or as may be provided by any tariff
law of the United States subsequently enacted. The rates of
duty herein granted by the United States to the Republic of
Cuba are and shall continue during the term of said convention
preferential in respect to all like imports from other countries:
Provided, That while said convention is in force no sugar imported from the Republic of Cuba, and being the product of
the soil or industry of the Republic of Cuba, shall be admitted
into the United States at a reduction of duty greater than
twenty per centum of the rates of duty thereon, as provided
by the tariff act of the United States approved July twentyfourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, and no sugar the
product of any other foreign country shall be admitted by
treaty or convention into the United States while this convention is in force at a lower rate of duty than that provided by
the tariff act of the United States approved July twenty-fourth,
eighteen hundred and ninety-seven: And provided further, That
nothing herein contained shall be held or construed as an ad.mission on the part of the House of Representatives that custom duties can be changed otherwise than by an act of Congress, originating in said House."
The same day (December 17, 1903) the President issued his
proclamation, 33 Stat. 2136, which,. after setting forth the
treaty and the act of Congress and reciting the above facts,
together with-the fact that ratifications of said convention had
been exchanged on March 31, 1903, declared:

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

567

Argument for the United States.

"And whereas satisfactory evidence has been received by
the President of the United States that the Republic of Cuba
has made provision to give full effect to the articles of said
convention:
"Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt,
President of the United States of AmeriCa, in conformity with
the said act of Congress, do hereby declare and proclaim the
said convention, as amended by the Senate of the United States,
to be in effect on-the tenth day from the date of this my proc-.
lamation."
The Solicitor General for the United States, in this case, and
in No. 652, argued simultaneously herewith: 1
The treaty and act were prospective and coterminous.
The original stipulation that the -treaty was to take effect
ten days after exchange of ratifications was superseded by
the Senate amendment, ratified and approved by Cuba, that
th6 treaty should not take effect until approved by Congress.
The subsequent action of the contracting parties was in accordance with that intent. The act was passed to carry the
treaty into effect; its language is prospective. The words
"on the tenth day after exchange of ratifications" are said
to be retrospective because the President's proclamation after
the passage of the act showed for the first time that ratifications
had been there'tofore exchanged. But the Executive alone
knew this; Congress was not advised at the time the act was
passed that ratifications had been exchanged March 31, 1903.
At that date Congress was not in session, having adjourned
March 4, 1903. A special session of the Senate began March 5,
and adjourned March 19, the day the resolution amending the
treaty was adopted. The President's proclamation of October 10, 1903, convening a special session to consider the treaty,
sets forth that the approval of Congress is necessary before
the treaty shall take effect; and in his message to that session
he refers to ratification without stating when the treaty was
IFranklin Sugar Refininq Company v. United States, post, p. 580.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

ratified or whether ratifications had been exchanged. Both
Houses thought that the stipulation'as to the exchange of
ratifications was superseded by the Senate amendment, and
supposed that final step had been deferred until Congress should
act.
That Congress did not intend a retroactive effect is clear
from the committee reports and debates. The discussion in
Senate and House was as to the scope of the. treaty-making
power and the propriety of granting the proposed reductions
in the Cuban tariff. The fact was mentioned that the bill
would make an annual reduction of $8,000,000 in duties on
imports. from Cuba, which would have meant, in case of
retrospective operation, a refund of $6,000,000 for the previous
nine months. Yet nothing was said about this, and no provision whatever was made.
The treaty and act took effect simultaneously on the tenth
day after proclamation. The approval by Congress was conditional: the President was first to ascertain whether Cuba
had made provision to give full effect to the convention, issue
his proclamation declaring that he had received such evidence, and "thereupon on the tenth day after exchange of
ratifications" the new arrangement was to begin. This was
clearly within the authority of Congress to do. Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649. The President, although aware of the
fact that ratifications had been exchanged, had to conistrue the
law so as to carry into effect the intention of Congress, which
was clearly that not only s§hould the new arrangement not
begin to operate until Cuba had made due provision on her
part, but that ten days' notice should be given before it should.
take effect, as originally provided in the treaty. The President therefore did the only possible and logical thing under
the circumstances.
Even if the approval of Congress and the action of the
President were not strictly in accordance with the terms of
the treaty, nb one but Cuba coiqld take exception. The interpretation and enforcement of'such treaty stipulations are

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

569

Argument for the United States.

for the determination of the political departments of the
Government, and courts will respect their decision. Foster
v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253; The Cherokee Tobacco, 1i Wall. 616;
Whitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190; Botiller v. Dominguez,
130 U. S. 238; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.698.
Cuba has concurred in the action of this Government, and the
arrangement was essentially reciprocal. Both the United
States and Cuba have put this treaty into effect on the same
day to operate prospectively, and there is nothing to indicate
that the two governments are not perfectly satisfied that the
true intent of the treaty has been observed. The argument,
reiterated by our opponents, that one party to the agreement
has undertaken to modify it 'without consulting the other
party, is simply disproved by the facts.
The case of United States v. Burr, 159 U. S.78, is controlling.
There the tariff act of 1894 specifically required its retrospective operation; yet the court looked to the spirit of the
law. The doctrine of United States v. Heth, 3 Cranch, 398
was affirmed; the court held the question was one of intention, and emphasized the rule that tariff laws should have a
prospective operation in order that there might be an interval
before the act took effect for business to adjust itself to the
change, and thus avoid confusion and mischief to the country.
Those considerations apply with even greater force in this case,
where the retrospective intention does not appear on the face
of the statute, but rests on inference, based on an assumption
that Congress knew of the exchange of r-atifications,--which
convicts it of inconsistency in its direction as to proclamation
by the President. If Congress knew that ratifications had
been exchanged several months before, why say the treaty
should take effect on the tenth day after exchange? Congress was evidently anticipating something yet to occur, and
intending to give adequate notice to business men.
The Senate resolution requiring approval of Congress was
valid and operative. There is an inconsistency between the
theory of appellees' protest and their brief. The protest, says

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

that the clause of the treaty stipulating for approval by Congress is inoperative, and yet anticipates the act and relies on
it when passed. Now they concede that the amendment
was operative and the Senate had power thus to amend.
There is no doubt of this. An act of Congress is not necessary to the. validity of a treaty, but may be to its taking effect.
Foster v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253; United States v. Arredondo, 6
Pet. 691. It is not necessary to determine whether this treaty
is self-executing or not, since it in terms stipulates that it shall
not take effect until approved by Congress, and Congress in
giving its approval enacted the necessary legislation to carry
the treaty into execution.
The sugars not actually removed from the bonded warehouse
until after December 27, 1903, but for which withdrawal entry
had been made and permit to deliver issued prior to that date,
were properly held to have been withdrawn before the treaty
took effect (sec. 20, Customs Administrative Act, as amended
by act Dec. 15, 1902, 32 Stat. 753). There was a constructive
withdrawal of the goods. This court has held that goods are
to be deemed to have been warehoused from the time of importation, because from that time they.are in the custody and
control of the Government. Hartran/t v. Oliver, 125 U. S.
525; Seeberger v. Schweyer, 153 U. S. 609. It therefore follows
that the period of warehousing must be held to end when the
withdrawal entry is made and a permit to deliver issued, because the goods then cease to be in the custody and control
of the Government. This is the only practical rule to adopt,
and it has been followed by the Treasury Department from
the first in applying the Cuban treaty. T. D. 24,855; T. D.
29,924.
To hold that because liquidation occurred after the treaty
became operative the goods were entitled to the benefit of its
terms would be to make the (late of liquidation and not the
date of withdrawal the determining factor, contrary to sec. 20,
Customs Administrative Act. The law (toes not prescribe the
time in which liquidation shall be made, but only that, after

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

571

Argument for the Sugar Refining Companies.

liquidating, the collector may not, in the absence of fraud or
protest, reliquidate after a year from the date of entry. Act
June 22, 1874, sec. 21, 18 Stat. 186; Abner Doble CO. v. United
States, 119 Fed. Rep. 152; United States v. De Rivera, 73
Fed. Rep. 679; Gandolfi v. United States, 74 Fed. Rep. 549.
And see Merritt v. Cameron, 137 U. S. 542, 549-551. The date
of liquidation is important only in its bearing upon the time
for making protest and reliquidation. There is no provision in
the treaty or the act requiring the liquidation or reliquidation
of goods previously entered in accordance with its terms.
This shows that the treaty and act were not intended to be
retroactive in any respect. United States v.. Burr, supra,
citing Barney v. Rickard, 157 U. S. 352. The merchandise
was liquidated as entered, there was no change in the classification, the original assessment of duty was right, and the final
liquidation was the same. The estimated duties paid at the
time of withdrawal are the duties.
Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. John E. Parsons and
Mr. H. B. Closson were on the brief, for appellee in this case
and for appellant in No. 652, argued simultaneously herewith.1
There was also a separate brief by Mr. Edward S. Hatch
and Mr. J. Stuart Tompkins in behalf of certain importers
having similar interests.
By the convention itself, the term of its duration was fixed,
viz., five years. from the tenth day of April, 1903, which date
was ten days after that of exchange of the ratifications by
the respective governments.
This contention rests upon the unequivocally expressed
provision that "the convention shall go into effect on the
tenth day after the exchange of ratifications, and shall continue in force for a term of five years from the date of going
into effect."
The treaty, as made by the respective plenipotentiaries,
after execution by them, required the confirmation of the
'Franklin Sugar Refining Company v. United States, post, p. 580.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the Sugar Refining Companies.

202 U. S.

Presidents of the respective governments, and of the Senates
of each county.
Until these confirmations, there could be no exchange of
ratifications, and of course it was necessary to provide that it
should not go into effect until such exchange.
As originally drafted, the convention must have failed
altogether, because of the inability to exchange ratifications
on or before the thirty-first day of January, 1903. The supplemental convention which was entered into, was requisite
to save such failure; but it still remained necessary the exchange should take place on or before the thirty-first day of
March, 1903.
There was anobvious reason why a limit of time for commencement of the reduction was fixed. The principal product
which would be imported into the United States from Cuba
would be sugar. The negotiations for the treaty were conducted, we may assume, in anticipation of the exportation to,
and importation into, the United States, of the crop for 1902.
In the ordinary course of trade, this crop would begin to be
imported in February, 1903, the importations being at their
maximum in April, and ceasing substantially on the first day
of July.
An extension of the date to December, 1903, would have
lost to Cuba the benefit of a reduction upon a crop which was
undoubtedly in the minds of both the contracting parties.
Of course we must deal with the effect of words inserted,
at the instance of the Senate of the United States, in accordance with the report of its Committee on Foreign Relations;
providing that "This convention shall not take effect until
the same shall have been approved by the Congress."
Whatever may be urged as to the interpretation of the convention, with these words inserted, it cannot be urged, with
conviction, that the intent was to alter, or to do anything
other than to guard against the possibility of its becoming
non-enforceable because of its affecting a tariff duly enacted
by the Congress of the United States.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

573

Argument for the Sugar Refining Companies.

One of the provisos, inserted in the act, discloses the jealousy
of the House of Representatives of its right, claimed by it to
exist, that customs duties could not be changed other than
by "an act of Congress originating in said House."
. The Senate, it may be assumed, was equally jealous of its
right of approval of treaties without any consent of the House
of Representatives. We think it may be asserted, confidently,
it was not intended by the Senate, that Congress should approve the treaty, but simply that it should give approval to
what might be necessary, in the way of legislation, in removing all possibility of question of enforcement in the United
States, of its conditions.
The Senate knowing it had been provided the term should
commence "on the tenth day after the exchange of ratifications," did not alter said provision; but knowing, also, that
a question existed as to the right to make any treaty which
altered a revenue law, it directed that though the term should
continue as prescribed, the convention itself should not be
effective until approved by the Congress.
No doubt as to the actual intention of the Senate can exist,
in view of the explanation of Senator Bacon, and of what was
said in its committee's report as to the rtification of certain
reciprocity treaties to which we have already referred. This
report shows that the Senate considered the words, "prohibiting the taking of effect until the same shall have been
approved by Congress," as the equivalent of the words, "shall
not take effect without the approval of Congress."
It was not intended by the Senate, by the insertion of these
words, to affect the exchange of 'ratifications. It was evident
that if this should not take place on or before the thirty-first
day of March, 1903, the convention would fall, by its own
ternis. Knowing that the ratifications must be thus exchanged, it was obvious the term nmust commence anterior
to the time when Congress could act, inasmuch as it had
adjourned, the Senate being in session under a special call.
We must read article XI, it is true, with the words we are

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the Sugar Refining Companies.

202 U. S.

considering added, but we must read it as a whole, not simply
the added words. The rules of construction require that so
far as may be, all parts of an agreement shall be regarded.
If it had been intended the added words should repeal those
first used, it would have been so said. Presumably the original
words were meant to continue to have effect, because they
were allowed to remain, without alteration.
An interpretation can be made which will render the whole
of the article effective-that for which we contend-holding
the, term to continue without alteration, but the convention
itself not to have been a binding obligation until something
had been done by Congress by way of legislation, necessary,
or at least deemed desirable.
In other words, when the Senate said-: "The treaty should
not take effect until the same shall have been approved by
the Congress," it meant only that: "This treaty shall not take
effect unless it shall be approved by the Congress."
In determining the meaning and effect of the act of December 17, 1903, it is necessary to- bear in mind the fact that it
is the meaning of the convention, not that of Congress, as embodied in this act, which we .must ascertain, the first being the
act of the two contracting parties, whilst the latter emanates
only from one.
No construction will be given to the act which, in any way,
will affect the contract. It was in the power of Congress to
refuse to legislate by way of amendment of the tariff act, but
it possessed no other power in the matter.
The beginning, and the end, of the act, was the removal
of any bar in the way of a question as to the right, in the
United States, to make valid a treaty, which provided for the
payment of duties upon imports, less than those which had
been prescribed by act of Congress.
In the case of the New York importations, as there was a
suspension of the liquidation until a date subsequent to December, 1903, the ultimate liquidation was required to be
made under a reduction at that time conceded to be in force.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

-575

Argument for the Sugar Refining Companies.

The effect of the importers' protest and appeal from the
decision of the collector to the boarcl of general appraisers was
to suspend the liquidation of the duties upon merchandise Un.til after its disposition of the appeal; which was not made
until April, 1904, months after the Cuban treaty had become
the law of the land.
This principle is the necessary result of the language of the
Customs Adfiinistrative Act and the revisory powers with
which it endows the board of general appraisers. Act of
June 10, 1890, § 14. See also Attorney General's argument
in United States v. Goldenberg, 168 T. S. 95.
If, while the importers' protest and appeal were pending
sub judice, either before the board of appraisers or before the
Circuit Court, and while the duties therefore still remain unliquidated, so much of the statute as imposed upon these imports more than eighty per cent of the general tariff rates was
repealed, as of a date prior to that of the importation, it was
the duty both of the board of appraisers and of the Circuit
Court to give-effect to the repeal and to reverse the collector's
decision, even though correct when made., 26 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 748. United States v. Schooner Peggy,
1 Cranch, 103.
While the importers' protest and appeal were still sub judice
before the board of appraisers, and before the duties had been
liquidated; so much 6f the statute as imposed more than
eighty per cent of the. regular duties upon these imports was
repealed, and the repeal by its very terms took effect as of a
date prior to the date of the importation.
It was not until April 28;-1904, that the board of appraisers
acted .pon the importers' protest and appeal. In the meantime the Cuban treaty upon its approval by Congress on December 17, 1903; four months before, had become the law of
the land. Article II of that treaty provided that "during the
term of this convention" all Cuban sugar should be admitted
at a reduction of twenty per cent; and as to the term of the
convention that it should "go into effect on the tenth day after

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the exchange of ratifications, and continue in force for the
term of five years from the date of going into effect." The
tenth day 'after the exchange of ratifications was. April 10,
1903. The sugars were imported in June, July, August and
September, 1903.
In the case of the Philadelphia importations, the liquidation
was not made until after December, 1903, and was therefore
required to be made in accordance with the tariff act as then
in force. What has just been said applies with greater force
to these importations. where there was no liquidation until
after the convention was concededly in effect.
After stating the case as above, MR.
livered the opinion of the court.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

de-

The treaty as drafted and presented to the Senate provided
for an exchange of ratifications at Washington as soon as might
be before the thirty-first day of January, 1903, and should "go
into effect on the tenth day after the exchange of ratifications."
A supplemental convention became necessary, and an exchange
of ratifications was provided to be "as soon as possible and
within two months from January 31, 1903." But subsequent
to that date, to wit, March 19, 1903, the Senate added the
amendment': "This convention shall not take effect until the
same shall have been approved by the Congress." Between
the treaty, therefore, and the amendment there was an emphatic difference. The date at which the instrument should
go into effect was changed. It cannot be said that the treaty
provision related to time and the amendment to sanction
merely and adopted the time of the treaty. To do this would
be to interpret the words of the treaty one way and the same
words in the amendment another way. We start, then, with
the proposition that not the treaty,, but the act of Congress,
was to fix the date that the treaty should take effect. What
date Congress fixed is the question to be considered. It was
certainly competent for Congress (with the oonsent of Cuba)

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

to have given the treaty retrospective, immediate or prospective operation. Which did Congress do? And in reply we are
to remember there is a presumption against retrospective operation, and we have said that words in a statute ought not to
have such operation "unless they are so clear, strong, and imperative, that no other meaning can be annexed to them, or
unless the intention of the legislator cannot be otherwise satisfied."
Uniied States v. Burr, 159 U. S. 78. On the other
hand, it must be admitted that there are words in the act of
Congress which, if not of themselves, yet in connection with
events, may be said to look to a retrospective operation. It
is not, however, an unusual judicial problem to have to seek
the meaning of a law expressed in words not doubtful of themselves, but made so by circumstances or the objects to which
they come to be hpplied.
Both the treaty and the act of Congress concern tariff duties,
and "the usual course in tariff legislation," we have said, "has
been, inasmuch as some time is necessary to enable importers
and business men to act understandingly, to fix a future day
United States
at which the statutes are to become operative."
v. Burr, supra. And these remarks have application here.
The treaty, it may be admitted, was intended as a beneficial
concession to Cuba. But conditions in the United States were
also to be considered, and we cannot assume that this would
have been overlooked by Congress when legislating. It is true,
as urged by appellant, that the act of December 17 deals entirely with importations from Cuba, but it is those which would
have the most disturbing effect, and on account of which business in like products would have to be accommodated. These
as well as the considerations urged by the appellant must be
kept in mind in seeking the meaning of Congress, and we repeat
that, under the Senate amendment, it is the meaning of Con-:
gress, not the meaning of the convention independent of that
,of Congress, we are to ascertain. It was open to Cuba to reject the amendment; it was open to Cuba to reject the legislation. If she chose to accept both they became her contracts.
VOL. coi--37

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Turning to the act of December 17 we find it expressed in the
simple future tense, and this must be given weight. United
States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95, 102. So far as the text of
the act itself is concerned, all of its parts accord; all of its proThat pertained to the then

visions are prospective but one.

present, the date of the .act. It provided that all products
which were imported free should continue to be admitted free.
The provision is "all articles

.

.

.

which are now imported

free of duty shall continue to be so admitted.

.

This accords with and reinforces the prospective provisions,

and was apparently used with deliberate and provident intention, making the act provide for the present and future, excluding the past, certainly not expressing it. Passing from
the text of the act, an element of confusion appears. Ratifi,cations had been exchanged between the United States and
Cuba on March 1, 1903. The text of the act provides "that
whenever the President shall receive satisfactory evidence that
the Republic. of Cuba has made provision to give full effect to
the article of convention

.

.

he is hereby authorized to

.

issue his proclamation declaring that he has received such evidence, and thereupon, on the tenth day after exchange of ratifications of such convention,

.

.

.

and so long as said con-

vention shall remain in force, all articles of merchandise being
the products of the Republic of Cuba, which are now imported
free of duty, shall continue to be admitted free of duty,
and all other articles . . . shall be admitted at a reduction
of 20% of the rates of duty thereon as provided in the tariff act
of the United States approved July 24, 1897.

.

.

."

The

words of the act, therefore, refer manifestly to an event to occur, which seemingly had already occurred, and upon such
event, it is contended, the treaty, by its own terms and by the
act of Congress, took effect, to wit, "the exchange of ratifications" of the convention. To this.the Government replies that
Congress, not being in session at the time, was ignorant that
ratifications had been exchanged, and framed its legislatibn
with the view that some further provision by Cuba was neces-

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SUGAR CO.
202 U. S.

579

Opinion of the Court.

sary. If we may not accept the explanation of Congress's ignorance it is not unreasonable to suppose that Congress considered it was still open to Cuba to accept or reject the treaty,
and fo make sure of her acceptance before the treaty should go
into effect in the United States. Tils view satisfies completely
the text of the act. We cannot suppose that if Congress intended to give retrospective operation to the act it would have
used words that expressed the contrary. The day at which the
treaty should operate was important, and would necessarily be
ever present in mind, and it was easy of expression. Future
time and past time are directly opposite, and by no inadvertence or intention can we believe or suppose that Congress, having in mind and purpose the distinction between- the past and
the future, should use language, that expressed the one while
it meant to provide for the other.
There is another important fact. The treaty was a reciprocal arrangement and intended to jo into effect coincidently in
the United States and Cuba. The two nations provided for
this. On *the day the President approved the act of Congress
he issued his proclamation declaring that the treaty should go
into effect on the twenty-seventh day of December. On the
seventeenth of December the President of Cuba also issued his
proclamation, stating that Congress had approved the treaty in
accordance with the requirements of Article XI, and declaring
that the treaty should take effect in Cuba on the day named in
the proclamation of the President of the United States-December 27, 1903. This coincident operation is of the very essence of the convention. It would indeed be anomalous if a
treaty which provided for reciprocal concessions should be in
operation in one nation eight months before it was in operation
in the other. And this is not adequately answered as appellee
answers it, by saying that the President of Cuba and the President of the United States were both mistaken as to the date
.of the operation of the treaty, and their mistake could not affect the rights of importers. Certainly not if a mistake could
be conceded. But the action of the Presidents is proof against

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

the existence of mistakes. It shows the understanding of the
executives of the two countries and affords confirmation of the
view that Congress contemplated action. subsequent to its legislation to put the treaty into effect.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case remanded with directions to affirm the order of the Board of
General Appraisers.

FRANKLIN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 652.

Argued April 27, 1906.-PDecided May 28, 1906.

United States v. American Sugar Co., ante, p. 563, followed, to effect that
the treaty of December 11, 1902, with Cuba went into effect December 27, 1903.
Under § 20 of the Customs Administrative Act as amended December 15,
1902, 32 Stat. 753, merchandise in bonded warehouse on which duties
are paid and permits for delivery issued to the storekeeper is thereupon
withdrawn from consumption and subject to rate of duty in force at that
time; this is not affected by the fact that the merchandise may remain
in the warehouse after such permit is issued and if directly. exported
the owner will under § 2977 Rev. Stat. be entitled to drawbacks.
Under § 20 of the Customs Administrative Act merchandise in bonded
warehouse is subject to the rate of duty in force at the time of withdrawal for consumption and not to the rate in force at time of liquidation.
Cuban sugar in bonded warehouse on which duty was paid and for which
withdrawal permits were issued and delivered to the storekeeper prior to
December 27, 1903, but which remained in the warehouse after that date
were, subject to full duty, and not entitled to the 20% reduction under
the act of December 17, 1903, and the treaty with Cuba.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

