OCTOBER. TERM; 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 1. Argued April 29, 1904.-Decided April 23, 1906.
The policy of the United States, evidenced in its legislation concerning the
islands ceded by Spain, has been to secure to the people thereof a continuation of the laws and methods .of practice and administration familiar
to them, which are to be controlling until changed by law, and it was the
intention of Congress in sec. 34. of the Foraker act of April 12, 1900, to
require the United States District Court for Porto Rico, in exercising
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court in analogy to the powers. of those
courts in the United States, to adapt itself, in cases other than of equity
and admiralty, to the local procedure and practice of Porto Rico. And
so held in regard to administering the remedy of attachment.
The Porto Rican system in force when the Foraker act was passed, and
binding until changed or amended, provided a statutory method for
recovery of damages by reason of an attachment wrongfully issued and
vacated, by the assessment thereof and judgment therefor in the attachment suit itself, which method was exclusive and precluded the recovery
of such damages'by separate suit at common law; and the District Court
of Porto Rico has no jurisdiction of such an action. In such a case it
could proceed in accordance with the local law, as nothing in the general
law of the United States or provisions as to jury trials in civil causes in
Circuit Courts of the United States is inconsistent with the enforcement by the District Court of the United States of Porto Rico of special
statutory proceedings in assessing damages in attachment proceedings.
Where the jurisdiction of the court from which the record comes fails, the
objection can be raised in this court, if not by the parties, then by the
court itself.

AN action at law was begun November 18, 1901, in the United
States District Court for the District of Porto Rico by the defendant in-error, Jos6 Perez y Fernandez, against Jos6 Antonio
Fernandez y Perez, to recover in an action for "tresspass upon
the case for wrongful attachment." The declaration contained
the usual averments of a declaration in a common law action
and averred that the attachment had been issued maliciously

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
Statement-of the Case.

202 U. S.

and without probable cause, and levied upon a certain twostory house then belonging to the defendant in error, in Mayaguez, Porto Rico. One Rafael Diaz Aguerria was made codefendant, and it was averred that the attachment was issued
in a suit brought by Fernandez as attorney in fact and agent
of Aguerria, who authorized and ratified the acts complained
of. It appeared that the defendant in error Perez had owed
about 6,000 pesos to one Claudio Barro, who died, leaving a
will in which Rafael Diaz Aguerria was named as executor.
The will was probated in Spain, and Aguerria qualified there
as executor of the estate. Perez, on November 10, 1899, recorded a mortgage in favor of one Don Victor Ochoa y Perez
for 20,000 pesos. The suit in which the attachment was issued
was begun January 2, 1900, by the filing of a declaration to
recover on certain notes, and was brought in the name of Aguerria as executor of the last will and testament of Claudio Barro.
The action was begun in the military court established by the
authority of the United States after the cession of Poyto Rico,
called the United States Provisional Court for the Department
of Porto Rico, which court was succeeded by the United States
District Court. On the date of the beginning of the suit an
affidavit for attachment was filed, which was sworn to by Fernandez, plaintiff in error, purporting to have the power of attorney of Rafael Diaz Aguerria, executor of the last will and
testament of Claudio Barro, the ground alleged being that the
affiant had reason to believe that the defendant intended to
and would fraudulently part with or conceal his property before judgment could be recovered against him, so that the judgment could not be satisfied out of the property. The summons
was issued, and a writ of attachment was levied upon the premises of the defendant in error, and notice posted thereon. Further proceedings were arrested by an injunction proceeding in
the United States court, brought by Jacinto Perez Barro, heir
of Claudio Barro, deceased, upon the ground that Aguerria,
plaintiff in the attachment proceeding, suing as executor of the
will probated in Spain, had not taken out ancillary letters in
VOL. ccii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in' Error.

202 U. S.

Porto Rico. The action for malicious attachment was joint
in form and the summons was returned as to Aguerria that the
marshal was unable to find him within his district. The declaration averred that he was a resident of Porto Rico, but he
was never served with summons in this case. Fernandez demurred to the declaration, averring that it appeared on its face
that he was acting as the duly ' authorized agent of Aguerria,
and was neither principal nor party plaintiff to the action
against Perez, the defendant in error. This demurrer was overruled, and no exception taken to such action by Fernandez.
Afterwards the general issue was filed, the case was tried to a
jury without objection and upon a charge of the court, substantially leaving to the jury the question whether Fernandez had
caused the attachment to issue Und be levied maliciously and
without probable cause, to the injury of the standing and credit
of the defendant in error as a merchant. A verdict was returned in favor of the defendant in error for the sum of $7,000,
upon which a motion for a new trial was overruled and judgiment entered.
Mr. James S..Harlan, with whom Mr. John Maynard Harlan
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The lower court in the consideration of the case assumed jurisdiction on the theory that the pleadings presented a right at
common law which it could properly proceed to try according
to the common law,. No such right existed under the local law
apart from and independently of the original attachment proceeding, and the right to enforce such a demand existed only
as an incident to and as a part of the original action in attachmient, that remedy being exclusive of all other remedies.
It follows that the lower court assumed jurisdiction in this
case of a cause of action that was not authorized by the local
system of laws and that could not have been enforced in the
local courts. It therefore had no legal existence, and could
not be enforced in the United States District Court for the District of Porto' Rico, for the jurisdiction of that court is concur-

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

rent with that of the local courts. Aside from its special
jurisdiction in equity and admiralty, and in controversies involving Federal questions, it could not take cognizance of any
right or claim that was not cognizable under the locwal law in
the local courts or enforce any remedy not enforceable by the
local courts.
If,. therefore, the lack of jurisdiction was complete, it isclear
that this court may now consider the question of jurisdiction
and should reverse the judgment of the court belovW upon the
ground that that court assulmed jurisdiction whe're none existed and granted a remedy without legal, warrant. Campbel
v. Porter, 162 11. S. 478; Nighi v. Dorel, 84 III. App. 22S;
Thompson v. Railroad Companies', 6 Wall. 134; Alhln v. Pullman Co., 139 U. S.658; Parkerv. Ornmby, 141 U. S. 81 ; Mansfield &c. Ry. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379; (JailedStates v. Huckohbee,
16 Wall. 414; Fiester v. Shepard, 92 N. Y. 251 ; FowMler v. Eddy.
110 Pa. St. 117; Fairjax Mfg: Co. v. Chambers, 75 Maryland,
604; Forsylh v. Hammnond, 142 Indiana, 505. Independent
civil actions based on torts are l)ractically unknown in tIhe civil
law. The criminal laws usually provide money compensation
for the injured party as well as punishment for 1he guilty one.
Sanchez, Roman Civil Law of Spain, vol. 4, p. 1017: Falicon,
Civil Code, p. 429; Penal Code Porto Rico, arts. 16, 613, 627.
See article by Judge Lobinger, Review of Reviews, September,
1905.
The damages awarded in this action of trespass on the case
could have been assessed in the original attachment proceeding.

The Spanish law in relation to provisional seizures or attachments is found in title. XIV of the Code of Civil Procedure.
But, unlike attachment, proceedings as commonly established
by legislation in the United Slttes, the Spanish law, in force
in Porto Rico at the time involved in this rec(rd, provides, in
case the attachment is vacated for any cause, for an adjudication, in the action itself, of the claim of the defendant for damages arising out of the wrongful attachmtrit. Title XIV of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

the Code of Civil Procedure contains complete provisions for
such an adjudication. Articles 1409-1415. Before this judgment could be executed it would be necessary to resort
to the procedure established in articles 927 et seq., under
which by proper statements or pleadings and counter pleadings an issue is arrived at and set for hearing, witnesses
are called, evidence introduced, and the court after due
consideration of the record finds whether any damage has
been suffered and, if so, to what amount. This finding becomes a part of the final judgment in the attachment
,suit.
The procedure bears a strong analogy to a suit in equity with
a reference to a master to determine and liquidate the amount
to be paid. This having been determined, a final decree is then
entered embracing the amount so arrived at.
Such a preliminary finding on the law and the facts by a
court in chancery is not, generally speaking, a final order and
cannot be appealed from; it only becomes final when the master
or the court has taken the necessary testimony to ascertain the
amount due and has embodied it in the final decree. So there
are repeated decisions by the Supreme Court at Madrid in which
it is held that the preliminary order vacating the attachment
and ordering the plaintiff to pay the costs and to indemnify
the defendant for his losses and damages, is not final, and cannot be appealed from until the amount of the losses and damages has been ascertained in accordance with the procedure
established in articles 927 :et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Decision of December 4, 1001, 92 Jurisp. Civil, 550; Decision of
October 20, 1899, 88 Juri0p. Civil, 130; Decision of December 3,
f892, 72 Jurisp. Civil, 494; Decision of November 6, 1888, 64
Jurisp. Civil, 538;' Decision of April 24, 1863, 8 Jurisp. Civil,
267.
The mode provided in title XIV for ascertaining losses and
damages in the attachment proceeding itself was exclusive under the law then in force of every other mode. Navarro, Comentarios &la Ley de Enjuiciamiento Civil, pp. 411, 412. No

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

decision and no authority under the civil law of Spain can be
found authorizing an independent proceeding.
The question of the constitutional right of trial by jury is
not involved. The Federal court has 'no jurisdiction to grant
an attachment except in accordance with local law. Waples
on Attachment, p. 325; Bates v. Days, 17 Fed. Rep. 167.
The United States District Court for the District of Porto
Rico, so far as the local laws are concerned, occupies exactly
the 'position of a Circuit Court of the United States sitting in
a State. It is therefore just as much bound as is a Circuit
Court of the United States to the observance, with respect to
the local laws of the island, of section 721 of the Revised Stat:
utes; and to the observance of section 914, which requires Federal courts to conform "as near as may be" to the practice,
pleadings, forms, of the courts of record of the State in which
they sit. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S*426, Where the reasons
for the provision are set forth. See also Indianapolis&c. R. R.
Co. v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291; Lewis V. Gould, 13 Blatch. 216;
Sears v. Eastburn, 10 How. 187; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Hamilton,
16 Fed. Rep. 181.
Even the tribal laws and customs of our American Indians
have been accorded the dignity of being respected by the Federal courts. Mackey v. Coxe, 18 How, 100; Dai'ison v. Gibson,
56 Fed. Rep. 443.
The record shows a fundamental error has been committed.
The proposition is that the court had no such jurisdiction as it
exercised, that it could grant no such remedy and that the
whole proce~ing was erroneous from its inception to its conclusion and this court may examine the laws of Porto Rico and
determine whether the trial court had jurisdiction. Harvey
v. Commonwealth, 20 Fed. Rep. 411.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. Franci.sH. Dexter, Mr. Wayne MacVeagh and Mr. John Spalding Flannery
%vere on the brief, for defendant in error:
No objection to the jurisdiction of the trial court nor any

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

202 U. S.

objection whatever to the charge of the court to the jury was
interposed by either party. Unless want ofjurisdiction in the
trial court by reason of the subject matter of the controversy
appears from the face of the record, the judgment under review
must be sustained. Hunt v. Hunt, 72 N. Y. 225.
The question thus presented is one of power in the trial
court to act judicially upon the subject matter in suit, and it
may be conceded that this court can properly consider and
letermine the contention of plaintiff in error that a civil action
like the present one was at the (late of the attachment and the
commncnement of this action unknown to and unauthorized
by the laws and jurisprulence of Porto Rico. United States v.
Perot, 98 U. S. 428; United States v. Chaves, 159 U. S.459.
Civil actions for the recovery of damages for injuries to per-

sons and property caused by the fault or negligence of another
have been recognized both by the Roman and by the civil law
from early times. Such actions have been administered in the
peninsula since the establishment of the Spanish monarchy, and
have always occul)ied an important place in the jurisprudence

of that nation. Such actions were countenanced in the Law
of the Twelve Tables and in the Justinian Codes, upon which
the Spanish system of laws was largely founded.
The body of laws called "Las Siete Partidas" were in force
in Porto Rico until 1889, When by royal decree the Civil Code
since in force was extended to that province. The Code of
Civil Procedure, likewise so extended, became effective in said
l)rovince .Jaunary 1, 1886.
Law I of Las iete Partidas (tit. XV, part 7) declares that
(amage is tho-loss of or (letriment to one's property or person
caused by the fault of another. Law Iii declares that damages may be recovered from the tort feasor or from the one
wvhoe fault caused the damage; also from the person who ordered or advised the commission thereof.
The Civil Code, which supersedes the Partidas, though preserving the general features of the former legislation, gives
much evidence of having been influenced both in its form and

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

principles by the Code Napoleon. For example, article 1902
of the Civil Code, which directly pertains to this discussion,
reads: "He who, by an act or omission, causes damage to another, fault (culpa) or negligence intervening, shall be obliged
to repair the. damage so done," while the corresponding articles
of the Code Napoleon read as follows: "Art. 1382. Every act
whatever of man which causes damage to another obligates him
by whose' fault it has happened to make reparation.
"Art. 1383. Every person is responsible for the damage-which
he causes not only by his act, butalso by his negligence or by
his imprudence."
Similar provisions are also to be found in the Civil Codes of
Belgium, articles 1382 and 1383; Netherlands, articles 1401 and
1402; Austria, article 1295; Switzerland, canton of Vand, articles 1037 and 1038; Chile, article 2314; Guatemala, articles
2276 and 2277; Uruguay, article 1280; Argentina, article 1109.
Wherever the civil law system prevails practically identical
provisions will be found, for all civil law codes find a common
origin in the Law of the Twelve Tables and the Justinian
Codes.
Upon the articles above mentioned many commentators have
shed light both as to their scope and meaning. See Don Leon
Bonel y Sanchez, Codigo Civil Espariol, vol IV, p. 894 et seq.
Toullier, Le Droit Civil Fran~ais, vol. 6, p. 94.
The administration of the civil law in Spain and her dependencies in regard to actions for torts, did not at the time of
the institution of this suit greatly differ from that administered
in other civil law countries, and apart from methods of procedure did not greatly differ from that in vogue in common law
countries.
In the administration of civil law generally there is a wellrecognized distinction between the word "d6lit" (a wrong)
when used in connection with civil and .as used in criminal
complaints. Aubry and Rau, under the title "Des Dlits,"
Cours de -Droit Civil Frangais, vol. 4, § § 443, 445. See also
Laurent, Cours El6mentaire de Droit Civil, vol. 3, p. 207. See
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

202 U. S.

also Decision of March 23, 1882, vol. 48, Jurisp. Civil, p. 394;
Decision of June 14, 1886, vol. 60, Jurisp. Civil, p. 120; Deccionario &c., Alcubella, vol. 1, p. 122.
Admitting that the Spanish law in force in Porto Rico at the
time of the levying of the attachment made ample provision
in cases of wrongful attachment for the assessment of damages
in the attachment proceedings itself, articles 1409-1415 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, and that in case of dispute as to the
fact of damages or the amount thereof, specifically provided
for the method of their ascertainment by articles 927 et seq. of
the same Code, it is submitted that these articles of the Code
of Civil Procedure have no bearing upon the present case for
two reasons: 1. Because the plaintiff in error, Fernandez, was
not a party plaintiff in the attachment proceeding. 2. Because
the United States Provisional Court for Porto Rico, in which
the attachment proceedings were had, was without judicial
power or authority to adjudicate in conformity with the provisions of the Spanish Code of Civil Procedure, damages against
Fernandez.
The United States Provisional Court for Porto Rico was established by General Orders, No. 88. By article II the judiciary power of said Provisional Court was extended "to all cases
which would be properly cognizable by the Circuit or District
Courts of the United States under the Constitution, and to all
common law offenses within the -restrictions hereinafter specified." Article IV thereof is as follows: "The decisions of said
court shall follow the principles of common law and equity as
established by the courts of the United States, and its procedure, rules and records shall conform as nearly as practicable
to those reserved and kept in said Federal courts."
Article V declares that "the jury may be introduced or dispensed with in any particular case, in the discretion of the
court; " and article VI declares that "the judges of the Provisional Court shall be clothed with the powers vested in the
judges of the Circuit or District Courts of the United States."
Both Aguerria and Fernandez were subjects of Spain-the for-

PEREZv.FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

mer a citizen of Spain, the latter seemingly a resident of Porto
Rico. Whatever might have been the regular procedure, so far
as the recovery of damages is concerned, had Fernandez, acting
for his principal, Aguerria, resorted to the proper insular court
in connection with the attachment proceedings against Perez,
and however Perez might then have been bound by the forms
and methods of procedure provided by the articles of the Code
above quoted governing the assessment of costs and damages,
it is certain that the methods of procedure so provided neither
helped nor hindered the parties to the action in the Provisional
Court, for in the very authority which established that court it
was expressly declared that "its procedure, rules, and records
shall conform as nearly as practicable to those observed and
kept in said Federal courts."
It is certain that there is no procedure known to the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States by which Federal
judges sitting therein are required or authorized to determine
and assess damages alleged to have been suffered by reason of
the wrongful suing out of an attachment, for an attachment
proceeding is not a case of equity nor of admiralty nor maritime jurisdiction, and -section 648 of the Revised Statuteis of
the United States, which but restates a provision of the Judiciary Act of 1789, provides that the trial of issues of fact in
the Circuit Courts shall be by jury except in cases of-equity
and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and except as
otherwise provided in proceedings in bankruptcy, and except
the parties or their attorneys of record waive a jury. Section 649.
By the act of April 12, 1900, the Provisional Court above referred to was abolished, and the District Court of the United
States for the District of Porto Rico was declared to be its successor and authorized to take jurisdiction of all cases and proceedings pending therein. Section VIII of said act provides
that the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico in force shall continue except as "altered or modified by military orders and
decrees in force when this act shall take effect and'so far as

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the same are not inconsistent or in conflict with the statutory
laws of the United States not locally inapplicable."
The local law and practice cannot be recognized as a rule of
procedure in the courts of the United States where its adoption
would be repugnant to the Federal Constitution or impair the
effect of any Federal legislation'. Virginia Coupon Cases, 114
U. S. 303; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 338.
Whenever Congress has legislated upon any matter of practice, and prescribed a rule for the government of its own courts,
it is to that extent exclusive of the state legislation on the
same subject. Southern Pac. Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 209.
See also Shepard v. Adams, 168 U. S. 625.
If it be true that the Porto Rican procedure required a defendant in attachment proceedings to demand the liquidation
of his damages by the trial judge in that action on pain of
losing all right to indemnification, it is nevertheless true that
section 914, Revised Statutes of the United States, does.not
require any such pr(ocedure to be followed in the Federal court
for Porto Rico, for to do so would be to deny the right of trial
by jury except in certain cases.
The Law of Civil Procedure as adopted for Porto Rico in
1885, §§ 939, 940, corresponds with the Law of Civil Procedure
of Spain and with §§ 1409 anl 1413 in force in Porto Rico at
the time of the attachment. Construing those laws Navarro
in his Commentaries states that the person concerned shall
"institute the ordinary suit" (p. 253). See also Decisions of
November 26, 1,57 and April 7, 1868; l)erecho Procesal de
Espafia, Pozo, vol. 2, 1).188; Decision of July 6, 1885, 58
Jurisp. Civil, P. 265; Decision of July 21, 1893, 73 Jurisp.
Civil, p. 954.
Mil. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court..
This case was argued orally an( upon briefs at the October
term, 1903, of this court. After the case had been argued

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and submitted, on December 5, 1904, an order was entered as
follows:
"No. 6. Jos6 Antonio Fernandez y Perez, Plaintiff in Error,
v. Jos. Perez y Fernandez. Counsel are requested to submit
additional briefs on these points:
"1. Can this court, on the record of this case, properly consider and determine the contention of the plaintiff in error that
a civil action like the present one was, at the (late of the attachment and the commencement of this action, unknown to
and unauthorized by the laws and jurisprudence of Porto Rico?
"2. Was a civil action like the present one known to the laws
and jurisprudence of Porto Rico at the time the attachment in
question was sued out?
"3. Under the law of civil procedure as existing in Porto
Rico at the time of the attachment proceeding complained of,
could the damages herein claimed have been allowed or assessed
in that proceeding upon the dissolution or discharge of the
-attachment? If so, was that mode exclusive of evei'y other
for ascertaining such damages? "
Our views in this case will be practically in answer to these
questions.
The case affords a striking illustration of the difficulty of
undertaking to establish a common law court and system of
jurisprudence in a country hitherto governed by codes having
their origin in the civil law, where the bar and the people know
little of any other system of jurisprudence. The action in this
case was begun and tried upon pleadings and under principles
which are controlling in a State following the common law, having its origin in England, and the case was submitted to the jury
upon general principles governing such actions for the recovery
of damages for the seizure of property upon writs of attachment issued maliciously and without probable cause. The action proceeded in all respects in form and substance as it would
had it been begun and -prosecuted in a common law State.
Cases which have come to this court from the Philippines
and Porto Rico, where we have had occasion to consider tire

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

enactments making changes in the laws of those islands, show
the disposition of the Executive and Congress not to interfere
more than is necessary with local institutions, and to engraft
upon the old and different system of jurisprudence established
by the civil law only such changes as were deemed necessary
in the interest of the people, and in order to more effectually
conserve and protect their rights. Kepner v. United States, 195
U. S.100, 122. This policy has been followed in dealing with
the Portb Ricans. President's Message, December 5, 1899;
Walton's Civil Law in Spain and Spanish America, 594. The
new civil government was established by the act of April 12,
1900,. commonly known as the Foraker Act. 31 Stat..77. eection 8 of that act provides: "That the laws and ordinances of
Porto, Rico now in force shall continue in full force and effect,
exceptrs, altered, amended, or modified hereinafter, or as altered or niodified by military orders and decrees in force when
this act shall take effect, and so far as the same are not inconsistent or in conflict with the statutory laws of the United States
not locally inapplicable, or the provisions hereof, until altered,
amended, or repealed. by the legislative authority hereinafter
provided for Porto Rico or by act of Congress of the United
States.

.

The first inquiry then to which we shall direct attention concerns ' the law in force at the time of the passage of this act in
Porto Rico, governing the issuing of attachments and the recovery of damages for wrongfully causing the same to issue and
be levied. The additional briefs filed by counsel upon both
sides in this case since the order of the court of December 5,
1904, above quoted, exhibit commendable zeal and industry in
investigating this question and bringing to the attention of the
-court the Spanish* treatises and cases throwing light upon the
subject. Upon behalf of the defendant in error it is insisted
that the action is governed by article 1902 of the Civil Code of
Porto Rico, which provides: "Art. 1902. A person who by an
act or omission causes damage to another when there is fault
or negligence shall be obliged to repair the damage so (lone."

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

War Department Translation of the Civil Code in force in Cuba,
Porto Rico and the Philippines, 244. Much discussion is had
in the briefs as to the meaning of this section, and whether the
term "fault "-" culpa" in the Spanish jurisprudence-is broad
enough to include actions brought to recover for conduct which
is alleged as malicious, as distinguished from those where the
basis of the recovery is a careless act or omission which does
not have for its motive the intention -to cause damage.
In the view we take of this case we do not find it necessary
to consider the authorities cited, or the views pressed pro and
con as to whether a malicious act, such as is complained of in
this case, is within the terms of this article of the Code. The
references to sections of the Code of Procedure show a comprehensive system specially provided for the issuing of attachments
and the recovery of damages where the same were wrongfully
procured to be allowed. The subject of attachment of property is treated in title XIV, Law of Civil Procedure, War Department translation, article 1395 et seq. Unlike ordinary
American procedure, an attachment is issued by order of the
judge and certain grounds are recognized. They are summarized as follows: "If the debtor be a foreigner,-or-ifbeing a
citizen, he has no known domicil, or does not own eal estate,
or does not have any place of business at which the payment
of the debt may be demanded. It may also be ordered, without any such attendant condition, if he has disappeared from
his home or place of business, leaving no one in charge, or if
he conceals himself, or. if there be reasonable groufids for believing that he will conceal or undersell his property to the
prejudice of creditors." Art. 1398. If it shall turn out that
the attachment was wrongfully procured, ample provisions are'
made for the adjudication and recovery of damages in the action. See articles 140971415, which are set forth in the margin.1
'ART. 1409. A person who has requested and obtained a provisional seizure
for an amount of more than 1,000 pesetas must request the ratification
thereof in an executory action or in the declaratory action which may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

The theory of these sections of the Code is that when the
court which issues the attachment is satisfied that the same
has been wrongfully issued, it will proceed in the manner
pointed out in the statute to ascertain the loss and damages
proper, filihg the corresponding complaint within twenty days after the
levying of the attachment. Upon the expiration of this period without
the action having been instituted or a ratification of the seizure having been
requested, the latter shall be null de fure, and shall be without effect at the
instance of the defendant without the plaintiff being heard. A petition
for a rehearing may be made against this ruling, and if it should not be
granted, an appeal for a stay and review of the proceedings may be interposed.
ART. 1410. Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing article, if the
debtor should be included in any of the cases of article 1398, the provisional
seizure may also be ordered after the institution of the action, a separate
record being narde thereof. The provisionI contained in articles 1399 to
1410, inclusive, shall be applicable to this case, and after the attachment
has been levied the proceedings thereupon shall be continued as prescribed
for incidental issues. When an attachment is vacated by a final ruling,
because it is not included in any of the cases of said article 1398, the plaintiff shall be taxed all the costs and be adjudged to indemnify the defendant
for any losses or damages he may have suffered, which shall be recovered
in the manner prescribed in article 1415.
ART. 1411. When the provisional seizure becomes of no effect by reason
of its having become null de jure, in accordance with Article 1409, the surety
shall be ordered cancelled in the same ruling, if any should have been furnished, or what may be proper shall be ordered for vacating the attachment
and cancelling the cautionary notice, in a proper case, and all costs shall be
taxed against'the plaintiff, who shall also be adjudged to indemnify the
defendants for any losses and damages he may have incurred. If the attachment should be vacated for any other reason, the ruling thereupon shall
also determine what may be proper according to the cases with regard to
costs and the indemnification of losses and damages which may have been
suffered.
ART. 1412. If the acknowledgment of a signature or of the written evidence of. a debt should not be made or be delayed through the fault of the
'debtor, and if the filing of the complaint and the ratification of the attachment should depend thereupon, the time lost in obtaining said acknowledgment shall not be included in the period 'of time prescribed in article 1409.
ART. 1413. If the owner of the property seized should request it, the
attachment creditor must file his complaint. within the period of ten days,
unless any of the circumstances mentioned in the foregoing article is attendant. Should he not do so, the attachment shall be vacated, and the costs,
losses, and damages shall be taxed against him.
ART. 1414. After the provisional seizure has been levied the debtor may

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which the defendant has suffered, and in the same action to
tax the costs against the plaintiff and to adjudge him to indemnify the defendant for such losses and damages. And
these losses and this recovery are adjudicated in the manner
pointed out in articles 927 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure.
These articles are found in title VIII of that Code, entitled
"Execution of Judgments." The defendant in the attachment
ha- ing been declared entitled to recover damages, proceedings
follow for the purpose of ascertaining the amount thereof.
Section 927 et seq. provide for the manner of making up an issue,
taking testimony and hearing witnesses, and, upon final order
or decree made by the court, an appeal can be prosecuted.
This full and comprehensive statutory method of ascertaining
and adjudging the damages to be recovered in cases where attachments are wrongfully issued and vacated for any cause,
would seem to preclude the application of general provisions
of the Code giving a right of recovery for acto of fault or negligence.
We are not cited to any decision of the Supreme Court of
Spain expressly adjudicating this matter, but are referred by
counsel on both sides to a treatise on the law of civil procedure,
"Commentarios h la Ley de Enjuiciamiento Civil," p. 412, by
Sefior Jos6 Maria Manresa y Navarro, said to be a text-writer
of the highest authority in Spain. The English translation
of his text is given as follows: "We do not think that this
rule [relating to independent actions fbr damages under the
mortgage law] is applicable to attachments, because on the
motion to vacate an attachment no discussion or proof of the
object thereto and request that it be vacated, with indemnification of losses
and damages, if not included in any of the cases of article 1398. He may
make this petition within the five days following that of the notice of the
ruling ratifying the seizure, or before that time, if he should deem it proper,
and it shall be heard and determined in a separate record in accordance with
the procedure prescribed for incidental issues.
. ART. 1415. In cases in which there is an adjudication of losses and damages, as soon as the ruling thereupon becomes final, they shall be recovered
according to the procedure established in Articles 927 et seq.

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

existence of losses and damages is allowed, and because the
law itself provides, in addition to this, that, when by final
order of the court, an attachment is vacated, the plaintiff be
adjudged to pay the defendant his losses and damages, they
being ascertained in the manner provided in article 1417,1 that
is, according to the procedure in article 928 et seq. Such a
proceeding permits of a discussion, if the issue is made, not
only of the amount but of the existence of losses and damages.
It follows that the court can decide on both questions without
the necessity of a new suit, which is. precisely what the law has
sought to avoid." This seems to be a direct authority for the
proposition that this plan of recovery of damages for wrongful
attachments is exclusive. In the absence of authority to the
contrary, and in view of the plain provisions of the Code, we
accept it as properly declaring the existing law upon the sub-ject. We reach the conclusion that the Porto Rican system
in force at the time of. the passage of the Foraker Act, and
binding until changed or amended, provided in the state
of affairs shown by.this record, a recovery for damages in the
method 'pointed. out in the attachment suit, by the special
statutory method provided for, and not otherwise.
The difference between the liability of one wrongfully levying an attachment at common law and the assessments of costs
and damages*under these provisions of the Porto Rican Code
is not one of form merely. The former action is substantially
one for malicious prosecution, and can be maintained only upon
proof of malice and. want of probable cause. Under the. Code
remediies given in Porto Rico the court is required to assess
damages, although malice or want of probable cause in suing
out the attachment may not be expressly shown. The remedy
given seems to cover all cases, where the attachment is vacated,
irrespective of the motive in suing it out.
,This brings us. to briefly inquire as to the nature and extent
of the jurisdiction and.practice of the United States courts in
Porto Rico. Section 34 of the Foraker Act established a
1 Art. 1415, Porto Rican Code.

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U.s.

United States District Court for Porto Rico and gave to it, in
addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of a District Court of the
United States, jurisdiction of all cases cognizant in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, and provides that it shall proceed
therein in the same manner as a Circuit Court, the intention of
Congress obviously being to establish a United States court in
Porto Rico, haviing like jurisdiction of both District and Circuit Courts of the United States in the States. Section 914 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States provides: "The
practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding in
civil causes, other than equity and admiralty causes, in the
Circuit and District Courts, shall conform, as near as may be,
to the practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding
existing at the time in like causes in the courts of record of
the State within which such Circuit or District Courts are held,
any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." The act
of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, provides that the Circuit
Courts of the United States shall have original jurisdiction concurrent with the courts of the several States in suits at common
law and in equity. We think it was the intention of Congress
in the Porto Rican act to require the District Court exercising
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court, in analogy to the powers of
the Circuit Courts in the States, to adapt themselves, save in
the excepted cases in equity and admiralty, to the local procedure and practice in Porto Rico. This conclusion is in accord with the policy of the United States, evidenced in its legislation concerning the islands ceded by Spain, and secures to
the people thereof a continuation of the laws and methods of
practice and administration familiar to them, which are to be
controlling until changed by law.
In the Revised Statutes of the United States, section 915, it
is provided as to attachments: "In common law causes in the
Circuit and District Courts the plaintiff shall be entitled to
similar remedies, by attachment or other process, against the
property of the defendant, which are now provided by the laws
of the State in which such court is held for the courts thereof;
VOL

c1i

7

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

and such Circuit or District Courts may from time to time, by
general rules, adopt such state laws as may be in force in the
States where they are held in relation'to attachments:and other
process: Provided;That similar preliminary affidavits-or proofs,
and similar security, as required by such state laws, shall be
first furnished by the party seeking such attachment or other
remedy." By analogy it would seem that the District Court
of Porto Rico,, exercising the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court in
its practice as to the issuing of attachments, is to adapt itself
to the local practice recognized and established in Porto Rico.
Circuit Courts of the United States are not governed by any
sepaiate. attachment law, but are required to administer the
remedy in attachment provid!ed in the laws of the State in
which the courts are held. Bates et al. v. Days, 17 Fed. Rep.
167.
It is further objected on the part of the defendant in error
'that Porto Rican procedure can have no application to this action against Fernandez, because he was not a party plaintiff
to the attachment suit, and the statute provides that the costs
of the attachment and damages shall be assessed against the
plaintiff in the action. We do not perceive that this fact affects
the determination of the question as to the proper remedy in
such cases. There is nothing in this action to show that Fernandez was not authorized to bring the suit and .take out the
attachmentin behalf of the plaintiff in that suit, in which event
Aguerria would be liable for the acts of his agent in that behalf.
Nor is there any reason why Fernandez might not be made a
party to the attachment proceeding if damages were to be
assessed against him alone.
It is -further objected that the United States court has no
method by which it can assess Thelse damages in the manner
required in the Porto Rican Code. In giving the remedies provided therein and asscssing the damages we see no reason why
that court cannot adapt itself to the requirements of the local
code and administer the rcieudies therein provided. In Traction Company v. Mining Company, 196 U. 8. 239, it was held

PEREZ v. FERNANDEZ.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the Federal court might follow the methods required by
the Kentucky statute in administerihg the local law for the
condemnation of property, so far as required to meet the needs
of justice. In that case the local law required the appointment
of appraisers by the court to assess compensation for the property taken. Speaking of the judicial power of a Circuit Court
of the United States administered in such courts it was held:
"In the exercise of that powvr a Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting witlin the limits of a State and having jurisdiction of the parties, is, for every practical purpose, a court of
that State. Its function, under such circumstances, is to enforce the rights of parties according to the law ofthe State,
taking care, always, as the state courts iust take care, not to
infringe any right secured by the Constitution and the laws of
the United States." In view of the provisions of the Foraker
Act, continuing local laws in force, this reasoning has application to the powers of the United States court in that territory.
There can be no difficulty in exercising the attachment remedies provided in the Porto Rican Code, if the attachment shall
turn out to have been wrongfully issued, andmaking an assessment of damages in the manner provided in that Code. The
procedure is simple and easily administered. Nor is there anything in that special procedure encroaching upon the right to
a jury trial, secured by the Federal Constitution, in suits at
common law where the value in controversy exceeds twenty
dollars. If it be assumed-a point which it is not necessary to
decide-that that part of the Constitution is applicable and in
force in Porto Rico, the proceeding is not a suit at common
law, but simply a method of ascertaining damages in a special
proceeding in which property has been wrongfully seized.
Nor would the general provisions of the Revised Statutes,
§ 648, providing for a jury trial as to issues of fact in Circuit
Courts, except in cases of admiralty and equity jurisdiction,
prevent the enforcement of the express provisions of the Porto
Rican Code as to assessment for damages for wrongful attachment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U.S.

Section 8 of the Foraker Act, as we have seen, continues in
force the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico, except as modified
by military orders and decrees in force, so far as the, same are
no& inconsistent or in conflict with the statutory laws of the
United States, which by section 14 of the act, when not locally
inapplicable, with certain exceptions, are declared to be in
force and effect in Porto Rico as in the United States. The
general provisions as to jury trials in civil causes in Circuit
Courts of the United States are not inconsistent with the
enforcement of a special statutory proceeding as to the
assessment of damages in attachment proceedings, as to
which the United States has no special statutory procedure,
and enforces in that respect the requirements of the local
law.
If we are right in holding that the Porto Rican law and practice as to attachments and the recovery of damages in respect
thereto are controlling in a Federal court in that territory, and
a common law action for a wrongful and malicious attachment
was unknown to the Porto Rican procedure, the court had no
jurisdiction of the action. The record shows that practically
no exception was taken in the record and proceedings in thef
'trial court, but it is.familiar law that this court will of its own
motion inquire into the jurisdiction which it has and as well

that of the .court below, without any special exception being
taken. If, as illustrated in the brief for counsel for the plaintiff
in error, a Circuit Court of the United States should undertake.
to entertain-a bankruptcy proceeding or an admiralty cause,
its proceedings would be void for want of jurisdiction. So, in
the present case, there being no such common law action enforceable under the Porto Rican procedure, a court of that district would have no jurisdiction to entertain the suit. Where
the jurisdiction. fails the objection can be raised in this court;
if not by the parties, then by the court itself. ParkerV.Ormsby
141 U. S. 81; Mansfield &c. Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S.379;
Thompson v. Railway Companies, 6 Wall. 134.
We, therefore, reach the conclusion that the United States

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
202 U. S.

101

Syllabus.

District Court had no jurisdic tion of this aption, and consequently. the proceedings had therein were null and void.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissenting.
As it is conceded that the question upon which the judgment
is now reversed was not saved in the court below, I am con-strained to dissent. In my opinion the error, if any, was a
mere question of mode of procedure, involving no want of jurisdiction ratione materc, even conceding that the presence of a

question of such a character would authorize this court to reverse-in the absence of any exception in the court below
or any reference to the question in that court.
MR. JUSTICE' MCKENNA

concurs in this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. CHEROKEE NATION.
EASTERN CHEROKEES v. CHEROKEE NATION AND
UNITED STATES.

CHEROKEE NATION v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 346, 347, 348.

Argued January 16, 17, 18, 1906.-Decided April 30, 1906.

Under see. 68 of the Cherokee Act of July. 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 726, as construed by the act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 996, and the agreement of.
December 19, 1891, providing for the sale of, the Cherokee outlet, the
Court of Claims had jurisdiction of all claims of the Cherokee Indian-s
against the United States, and the claims were to be reopened and reexamined de novo, and the. court and the accountants were 'to go behind
statutory and treaty bars and rebeipts in full, and were to consider any
alleged and declared amount of money promised but withheld under any
treaty or law.
The United States, as stated in the Slade & Bender account made under
the agreement of December 19, 1891, and as found by the Court of Claims,
is liable to the Cherokee Nation for $1,111,284.70, the amount paid for
the removal of the Eastern Cherokee Indians to the Indian Territory,
improperly charged to the treaty fund.
The questiorl whether interest should be allowed on this fund having been
submitted, under the Eleventh Article of the Cherokee Treaty of 1846, to
the Senate of the United States, and that body having, by resolution

