FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. STAAKE.
202 U. S.

Syllabus.

in Riggins v. United Slates, 199 U. S. 547. To that and the
cases cited in the opiiron we refer, saying that, in the case at
bar there is no special reason why the ordimary procedure
should not obtain. It will be borne in nind that thie act with
which the. respondent was charged was not done under or by
virtue of' the authority of the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and therefore his prompt release is not necessary in orler to uphold thle national authority. It was not
an act to be commended, and the only question is wliether its
punishment was within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
ad that question, under the circumstances, should have been
settled in the ordinary way.
For these reasons the decision of the Court of Appeals is
reversed, and the Cse is remanded with instructions to quash
the writ of certiorariand dismi the petition.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BALTIMORE v. STAAKE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 213.

Argued March 15, 16, 1906-Decided April 30, Iv(1o

.

Illcr § 67J of the hanikriptcy law of I~t' at tachments obtained within
four months of tiling the
ietiti
on oil property which in the absence of
the attachments would pass to other persons, and to which the bankrupt has only a bare legal title, may he preserved for the general benelit
of the estate, and wlatever the trustee realizes thcreon may bie distrilmited
among the body'of thecreditors. The lien is valid, but it,
lose its preferenltial character ill favor of the attaching creditor by the institution of
the bankruptcy proceedings.
The extent to which the.bankruptcy ourt shall recognize the rights obtained by-creditors upon property at tahed as property of the bankrupt, but which has.been conveyed. by unrecorded contract, and the
extent to which liens obtained by prior judicial proceedings shall be
recognized are wholly within the discretion of Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

THIS writ of certiorari was allowed to review an order of
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree of the District
Court in favor of Staake, as trustee in bankruptcy of the estate
of Chester R. Baird, bankrupt, subrogating him to the rights
of certain creditors, antl authorizing him to enforce their attachment liens with like force and effect as the attaching creditors, one of which was the First National Bank of Baltimore,
might have done had not the bankruptcy proceedings intervened.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows: Chester
11. Baird, doing business under the name of C. R. Baird & Co.,
and owning certain rcal estate in Virginia known as the West
End Furnace Company, sold the same, December 7, 1899, to
the Roanoke Furnace Company, subject to certain encumbrances, executed a contract in writing, and received from the
Furnace Company the entire consideration, namely, $500,000,
in the capital stock of the Furnace Company. Under this contract of sale the Furnace Company took immediate possession,
but no deed to the company was made until November 5,
1900, when a deed was executed and recorded.
Meantime, however, and on October 26, 1900, nine different
attachments, among them one by the petitioning bank, were
sued out of the Hustings Court for the city of Roanoke, amounting to over $40,000, against Baird as a non-resident, and were

levied upon the furnace property. Under the provisions of the
law of Virginia the attachments, having been levied before the
deed of the-furnace property had been executed and recorded,
the attaching creditors acquired, as against Baird and the
Furnace Company, a lien on the properties attached.
Within four months after the levy of the attachments,
namely, December 24, 1900, Baird was adjudicated a bankrupt in the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and on January 2, 1901, the District Court for the
Western District of Virginia assumed Ancillary jurisdiction
of such property as was located in Virginia. On December 29,
1900, the Roanoke Furnace Company was also adjudicated a

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. STAAKE.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

bankrupt. On March 26, 1901, Staake was appointed trustee
of Baird's estate, and on June 29, 1901, John M. N. Shimer
was appointed trustee of the Roanoke Furnace Company.
It was further agreed that the deed of November 5, 1900,
from Baird to the Roanoke Furna'ce -Company was a valid
conveyance to a 'purchaser in good faith for a then fair consideration, and was not affected by the bankruptcy proceedings.
The proceedings in question here were instituted by a petition filed by Staakc, entitled both in the cases of Chester R.
Baird and the Roanoke Furnace Company, avcrring that under
the laws of Virginia the rights of the attaching credit0rs were
superior to those of the Furnace Company, and that as to them
the property attached was the property of Baird; but that,
by reason of his insolvency and of the fact that these attachments had been levied within four months preceding the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy, such attachments were null and
void, unless the court should order them preserved for the
benefit of the estate. Ile therefore prayed that they be decreed null and void as regards plaintiffs, but that ,hey be preserved for the benefit of petitioner.
The bank demurred to tPis petition, and also aswered
denying that its attachment was null and void, an(d alo delying the right of the court to enter an order preserving thei
attachment for the benefit of the l)etitioner; and alleging that
respondent is entitled to the benefit of the attachment,
said
property when sold by an intcrlocutol'y order having realized
enough to pay said attachment, as well as all prior liens.
Shinier, trustee for the Roanoke Furnace Company, also
answered, praying that, if the attachment be contiqp.m~d for
the trustee of Baird, the petitioner should be required to abate
a large claim which lie filed against the estate of the Roanoke
Company, by the amount of said attachments.
Upon a hearing before the District Court that court overruled the demurrer .to Staake's pctition, and authorized 'him
to enforce the attachment liens for the benefit of the estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

126 Fed. Rep. 845. The Court of Appeals affirmed this action,
133 Fed. Rep. 717, and the bank petitioned this court for a
writ of certiorari, which was granted.
Mr. S. Hamilton Graves for petitioner in this case; Mr.
Villiain Gordon Robertson and Mr. Holmes Conrad, with whom
Mr. Edward V. Robertson was on the brief, for petitioners in
McHarg v. Staake, post, p. 150, argued simultaneously herewith.
Mr. Albert G. Dickson, Mr. John Dickey, Jr., and Mr. S.
Griffin, with whom Mr. H. Gordon McCouch and Mr. Samuel
TV. Cooper were on the brief, for the respondents in' this case
and in McHarg v. Staake, post, p. 150, argued simultaneously
herewith.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after making the foregoing state:
ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
At the time these attachments were levied, the title to the
property in question stood in the name of Baird, and the
attaching creditors by their levies secured a preferential lien
upon the property, not only as against Baird, but also as
against the Furnace Company, which received a deed to the
property November 5, 1900, after the attachments had been
levied. These attachments, however, were annulled by the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy against Baird within four
months after the attachments were levied, and if the case
stood upon this fact alone there could be no doubt that the
property would pass to the trustee of the Furnace Company,
discharged of the lien of the attachments. We are not concerned here with any conflicting rights of the two trustees,
Staake and Shimer, since they were both appointed receivers
of the Roanoke Furnace Company, and the only claim made
by Shimer now is that, if the attachments be continued, the
petitioner Staake be iequired to abate his claim against the

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. STAAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

estate of the Furnace Company by the amount of these attachments. It is therefore. unnecessary to consider whether, if
the attachments were annulled, the property would pass unencumbered to the trustee of the Furnace. Company, since, as
stated by the District Judge, the demurrer to the petition is
intended merely to raise the question whether the trustee of
Baird's estate or the attaching creditors.shall have the benefit
of the attachments.
This depends upon the peculiar terms of section 67 of the
Bankrupt Act, which provides as follows:
"SEC. 67/. That all levies, judgments, attachments, or other

liens, obtained through legal proceedings against a person who
is insolvent, at any time within four months prior to the filing
of a petition in bankruptcy against him, shall be deemed null
and void in case he is adjudged a bankrupt, and the property
affected by the levy, judgment, attachment or other lien shall
be deemed wholly discharged and released from the same, and
shall pass to the trustee as a part of the estate of the bankrupt, unless the court shall, on due notice, order that the right
under such levy, judgment, attachment or other lien shall be
preserved for the benefit of the estate; and thereupon the same
may pass to and shall be preserved by the trustee for the
benefit of the estate as aforesaid. And the court may order
such conveyance as shall be- necessary to carry the purposes
of this section into effect: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall have the effect to destroy or impair the title obtained by such levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien, of
a bona fide purchaser for value who shall have acquired the
same without notice or reasonable cause for inquiry."
Section 67c, which also treats of liens created by attachments on mesne process.and provides for their dissolution, in
the last clause declares that"*

*

*

if the dissolution of such lien would militate against

the best interests of the estate of such person,' the same shall
not be dissolved, but the trustee of tie estate of suQh person, for
the benefit of the estate, shall be subrogated to the rights of the
•VOL.

CClII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

holder of such lien and empowered to. perfect and enforce the
same in his name as trustee with like force and effect as such
holder might have done had not bankruptcy proceedings intervened."
This section (671) makes two distinct provisions for the
disposition of the property of an insolvent attached within
four months prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy
against him. First, such attachments shall be declared null
and void, and the property affected shall be deemed released,
and shall pass to the trustee of the estate of the bankrupt;
,or second, the court may order that the right acquired by the
attachment shall be preserved for the benefit of the estate.
In the first case the whole property passes free from the attachment. In the second, so much of the value of the property attached as is represented by the attachments passes to
the trustee for the benefit of the entire body of creditors, that
is, "for the benefit of the estate "-in other words, the statute
recognizes the lien of the Attachment, but distributes the lien
among the whole body of creditors.
The first provision contemplates the attachment of property
to which the bankrupt ha§ the complete, legal and equitable
title, which, as soon as the attachment is dissolved, passes at
once to the bankrupt's trustee as part of his estate. The
second provision evidently does not apply to this, as there is
no object in preserving the lien of the attachment for the benefit of the estate, since under the first clause the entire value of
the property attached passes to the trustee free from the
attachment. The second clause contemplates property in
which the bankrupt has an interest which has been secured
to attaching creditors by the levy of the writ, but which might
have passed to another person, as, for instance) a purchaser
under an unrecorded ded, but for the fact that: the attaching
creditors had acquired a jDrior lien thereon. In such case the
statute recognizes the validity of the lien, but preserves it for
the benefit of the entire body of creditors, by reason of the
fact that the attachment was dissolved as a preferential lien

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. STAAKE.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in favor of the attaching creditors, by the institution of proceedings in bankruptcy.
In the present case Baird had contracted to convey the
property to the Roanoke Furnace Company, possession had
been taken and the consideration paid, but the deed was not
actually executed and recorded until after the attachment
had been levied. Hence, under the Virginia statute, the validity of which is not questioned, the lien of the attachment
took precedence of the deed, and would have remained a prior
lien, had it not been for the institution of the bankruptcy
proceedings within four months. This dissolved the attachment, and had the case rested here the property would have
apparently p)assed to the Furnace Company, or to its trustee
in bankruptcy, Shimer; but at this point the court, under the
second proviso of 67f, interposed and recognized the lien of
the attachment, not, however, solely for the benefit of the
attaching' creditors, but for the benefit of Baird's estate.
Shinier made no objection, and the court declined to express
an opinion as to his rights.

This is one of the very contingencies provided for by the
second clause of the section, which al)parently vests in the
court a certain discretion with regard to the preservation of
the right acquired under the attachment or other lien. In
this-case the court recognized the validity of the lien, the
trustee of the Furnace Company making no objection to this;
but the attaching creditors insist that, as the lien was acquired for their own benefit, they should not be required to
share with the general creditors of Baird's estate.
Their argument is based upon the theory that the second
clause was not intended to apply to liens acquired upon the
estate of third parties, but to property which would have
passed to Baird's trustee had the attachment not been levied.
In other words, that the bankruptcy court has nothing to do
with the property, since it really did not belong to the bankrupt, and would have passed to his vendee if the attachments
had n6t been levied upon it. Ileed the opinion especially

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

finds that "had valid attachments not been levied, the prop.erty would have passed to the trustee of the Roanoke Furnace
Company."
To what extent liens obtained by prior judicial proceedings
shall be recognized is a matter wholly within the discretion of
Congress. It might have validated all such liens, even though
obtained the day before proceedings were instituted. It might
probably have invalidated all such liens whenever obtained.
It took a middle course, and invalidated all liens obtained
through legal proceedings within four months prior to the
filing of the petition, but at the same time preserved to the
general body of creditors, as against third parties (such as
purchasers under an unrecorded deed), such liens as attaching
creditors had secured upon property which would have passed
to the subsequent purchaser in case the attachment had not
been levied. It is true that the attaching creditors are thereby
deprived of the fruits of their diligence, but the same thing
would have. happened had the attachment been levied upon
property to which, the bankrupt had the whole and undisputed title, or of which lie had made a fraudulent conveyance.
As remarked by the District Judge, "In cases where the bankrul)t.iakes a valid conveyance, or where his fraudulent vendee
inakes a valid conveyance, the purpose of the lav is worked
out by preserving and enforcing the liens of the attaching
creditors for the pro rata benefit of all the creditors."
Section 67/ is merely carrying out the general purposes of
the act, of securing to the creditors the entire property of the
bankrupt, reckoning as part of such property liens obtained
by attaching creditors against real estate which had been
transferred to another, though no deed had beeniactually
executed and recorded.
The airgunient that section 67f in question here refers only
to liens upon property which, if such liens were annulled,
would pass to the trustee of the bankrupt, we think is unsound,
since that contingency is amply provided for by the prior
clause of the section annulling all such liens, and providing

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. STAAKE.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that property affected thereby shall pass to the trustee as a
part of the estate. Under the argument of the attaching
creditors in this case, the subsequent clause would be entirely
unnecessary. This clause evidently contemplates that attaching creditors may acquire liens upon property which would
not pass to the bankrupt, if the liens were absolutely annulled,
and therefore recognizes such liens, but extends their operation to the general creditors. Had no proceedings in bankruptcy been taken doubtless this property would have been
sold for the benefit of the attaching creditors.
The general rule relied upon by the bank in this case, that
the words "property of the bankrupt" mean only the property to which the bankrupt is beneficially entitled, and do not
.include property to which he. has only a bare legal title, is.
perhaps justified by our decision in Hewitt v. Berlin Machine
Works, 194 U. S. 296. But the extent to which the bank-'
ruptcy court-shall recognize the rights obtained by creditors
upon property attached as the pro perty of the bankrupt,
though in fact: such property had been conveyed by an unrecorded contract, is a matter solely within the discretion of
Congress. The liens acquired in this case were liens upon
property, which as to attaching creditors was the property of
the bankrupt, and Congress may lawfully insist that it shall
be reckoned as a part of his estate, and pass to the trustee.
As remarked by the Court of Appeals: "The rule that the
trustee takes the estate of the bankrupt in the same plight as
the bankrupt held it is not applicable to liens which although
valid as to the bankrupt, are invalid as to creditors."
If the interest of Baird in this property were sold solely for
the benefit of the attaching creditors, it would obviously' result
in a preference to those creditors over'the general creditors of
his estate, and in fraud of the bankruptcy act, which is designed to secure equality among all creditors.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

