HALSELL v. RENFROW.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

HALSELL v. RENFROW.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 254. Submitted April 20,1906.-Decided lay 14,1906.
Where the court of first instance in a Territory sees the witnesses the full
court deals with its findings as it would with the verdict of a jury, and
does not go beyond questions of admissibility of evidence, and whether
there was any evidence to sustain the conclusion reached, and this court
goes no further unless in an unusual case.
A judgment for defendant in an action for specific performance based on a
finding of fact, among others, that defendant has conveyed the property
to an innocent purchaser for value cannot be reversed, as specific performance is impossible where the party to the contract has conveyed the
property to one who is free from equities.
Under the Oklahoma statute in regard to conveyance of real estate the contract to be valid must be in writing and subscribed by the parties thereto,
and this is not met by a payment of a would-be purchaser to one claiming
to be the agent of, the owner but not authorized as such under the Oklahoma statute, nor in this case can such payment or a deposit of the deed
in bank to be taken up under certain conditions be regarded as part performance on the part of the owner.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jean H. Everest and Mr. Henry H. Howard for appellants:
A contract binding under the statute of frauds may be
gathered from letters, telegrams and writings. Beckwith v.
Talbot, 95 U. S. 289; Ryan v. United States, 136 U. S. 68;
Bibb v. Allen, 149 U. S. 481.
The contract is presumptive evidence .of'aconsideration, and
the burden of showing a ,want of.edsideration is upon the
party seeking to avoid it. Ok Statutes of 1893, §815.
There is no such thing n.,a specialty or distinction between
that and a simple conttict under our law, and no statute of
frauds requiring thc:9onsideration to be expressed in any casc

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellees.

202 U. S

where the contract is required to be in writing; in view of
which the true consideration may be shown by parol where
the contract is sought to be avoided under the statute of frauds
as well as in any other case. Kickland v. Menasha Woodenware Co., 31 N. W. Rep. 471; Williams v. Robinson, 40 Am.
Rep. 352; Gass v. Hawkins, Thompson, Tenn. Cas. 238; Whitby
v. Whitby, 36 Tennessee, 473; Thornburg v. Maston, 88 N. Car.
293.
The statute requiring the authority of the agent to be in
writing refers to the agent of the vendor, and not of the vendee.
And the agent of the purchaser may make a good contract
within the statute of frauds without disclosing his principal,
and the true relation pay be shown by parol. Tewksbury v.
Howard, 37 N. E. Rep. 355; Roehl v. Haumasser,15 N. E. Rep.
345; 2 Parsons on Con., 7th ed., p. 680.
The plaintiffs took possession of the land under the contract
and subsequently committed acts which would amount to trespass unless their possession was rightful. Under such circumstances the court should have allowed parol evidence to show
the real circumstances. The defendant, knew of and did not
object to these acts. Allen v. Moore, 70 Pac. Rep. 682; Lawson on Contracts, § 475; Overstreet v. Rice, 96 Am. Dec. 279;
Ryan v. Nevins, 90 Am. Dec. 696.
The defeidant Edwards, was not an innocent purchaser,
and not being such he should have been required to convey to
the plaintiffs. Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. McAlpine, 129 U. S.
305; Day v. Cohn, 4 Pac. Rep. 511; Willis v. Wozencraft, 22
California, 617; Calanchima v. Braustetter, 24 Pac. Rep. 149.
Mr. John W. Shartel, Mr. James R. Keaton and Mr. Frank
Wells for appellees:
The findings of a judge in an equity case, or the verdict of
a jury, are conclusive in Oklahoma if there is testimony to
support them, Ellison v. Beannabia, 4 Oklahoma, 352. The
civil ;procedure of Oklahoma, both original and appellate, is
governed by civil code, which code was literally borrowed from

HALSELL v. RENFROW.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

the State of Kansas in 1893 and was received with the settled
construction in that State to the same effect. Eckert v. Rule,
51 Kansas, 703; Medill v. Snyder, 61 Kansas, 15; Railway Co.
v. Hildebrand, 52 Kansas, 284.
This rule being firmly established in Oklahoma and being
the only rule that is reasonable under the Code of Civil Practice adopted there, it follows that this court in reviewing the
decisions of that court acts only in the place of that court and
can no more weigh the testimony than it could, and that this
court should follow the rule of the court appealed from. Sanford v. Sanford, 139 U. S. 642.
Specific performance is a matter of discretion and the ruling
of the trial court and the Supreme Court of the Territory should
not beinterfered with, unless there has been an abuse of 'discretion. '26 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 62; McCabe v.
Matthews, 155 U. S. 550.
. There was no written contract between the parties as required by the statute of frauds. It is based on nine different
writings and they are disconnected and contain no references
to each other and cannot be connected by verbal evidence.
Reed on Statute of Frauds, §§ 344, 352; Tice v. Freeman, 15
N. W. Rep. 674; Devine v. Warner, 56 Atl. Rep. 563.
Receipts of payments on a parol contract for the sale of
lands are not sufficient to take it out of the statute of frauds.
Williams v. Morris, 95 U. S. 444; Fox v. Easter (Okla.), 62
Pac. Rep. 283.
The telegrams do not name the purchasers and this cannot
be supplied by parol proof. Grafton v. Cummings, 99 U. S.
.100; Breckenridge v. Crocker, 21 Pac. Rep. 179; Lewis v. Wood,
26 N. E. Rep. 862.
The telegrams are also insufficient as a contract for the reason that they do not describe in any way the land. Ferguson
v. Blaclcwell (Okla.), 58 Pac. Rep. 647; Prestdn v. Preston, 95
U. S. 200.
The deed executed by Renfrow to HalseHl cannot be considered as a memorandum under the statute of frauds for the
VOL. OOII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellees.

202 U. S.

reason that it was never delivered and was not executed in
accordance with the contract appellants are attempting to
enforce. Day v. Lacasse, 27 Atl. Rep. 124; Steel v. Fife, 48
Iowa, 99; Parker.v. Parker, 67 Massachusetts, 409; Comer v.
Baldwin, 16 Minnesota, 172; Johnson v. Brooks, 31 Mississippi,
17; Weir v. Batdorf, 24 Nebraska, 83; Cagger v. Lansing, 43
N. Y. 550, reversing judgment, 57 Barb. 421; Allebach v. Godshalk, 116 Pa. St. 329; Morrow v. Moore, 57 Atl. Rep. 81.
The obligation, if any, created by the writings was not binding upon the appellants and, therefore, the contract was invalid for want of mutuality. Rudland Marble Co. v. Ripley, 10
Wall. 339. Unless the contract binds all the parties, it will be
enforced against none of them. 22 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
1019; American Cotton Oil Co. v. Kirk, 68 Fed. Rep. 791;
M., K. & T. Railway Co. v. Bagley, 56 Pac. Rep. 759.
The rule as to innocent purchaser is not limited to the prudent and wary one, but includes the bona fide one without
notice. 2 Sugden on Vendors, p. 551.
By the fraudulent alteration of the check the whole contract
becomes unenforceable even if the documents were otherwise
sufficient to constitute a written contract.
The fact that the alleged contract is embraced in numerous
documents brings it under the rule that the material alteration
of one of them forfeits all rights under all of them. No attempt was made to explain this alteration, and the fact of a
material alteration in the contract is presumed to be fraudulent
until the contrary is made to appear by the party making the
alteration. Dietz v. Harder, 72 Indiana, 203; Eckert v. Pickle,
59 Iowa, 545; Davis v. Eppler, 38 Kansas, 639; Pheenix Ins.
Co. v. Kerny, 100 Kentucky, 97; Owen v. Hall, 70 Maryland,
96. The fact that appellants admit their fraudulent conduct
in making this alteration does not advance their case, because
an instrument once altered cannot be restored. Robinson v.
Reed, 46 Iowa, 219; Shepherd v. Whetstone, 51 Iowa, 457; Botton v. Edwards, 2 Dana (Ky.), 106; Citizens' Natl. Bank v.
Richmond, 121 Massachusetts, 110; Warpole v. Ellison, 4 Hus-

HALSELL v. RENFROW.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ton (Del.), 322; Lock v. Walker, 2 Arkansas, 4; Fulner v. Seitz,
'68 Pa. St. 237.
It must be assumed for the purpose of this case that the
alteration was fraudulently made. Burwell v. Orr, 84 Illinois,
464; Inglish v. Breneman, 9 Arkansas, 902; Eckert v. Louis,
84 Indiana, 895; Pyle v. Oustatt, 92 Illinois, 209; Wilson v.
Harris,55 Iowa, 507; Warder et al. v. Willyard, 49 N. W. Rep.
300. See also Croswell v. Lebree, 81 Maine, 44; Citizens' Natl.
Bk. v. Williams, 174 Pa. St. 66; Shepherd v. Whetstone, 51
Iowa, 457; Hays v. Wagoner, 89 Illinois, 390; 2 Cyc. 182, 224;
Crawford v. Hazeltree, 117 Indiana, 63; Walton Plow Co. v.
Campbell, 37 Nebraska, 883; Vogel v. Repper, 34 Illinois, 100.
By refusing the deed the appellants refused the only performance possible and cannot now claim specific performance.
Scannell v. Am. Soda Fountain Co., 68 S.W. Rep. 890; Oliver
Mining Co. v. Clark, 68 N. W. Rep. 23; Mills v. Van Vorhis,
23 Barb. 125.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for the specific performance of an alleged
agreement to convey land, brought by the plaintiffs in error
against the defendants in error. The case was tried before a
judge of the Supreme Court, and all the issues were found for
the defendants. It then was taken before the full court upon
a transcript of the evidence and proceedings, and the judgment
for the defendants was affirmed. 14 Oklahoma, 674. Thereupon it was brought here by appeal.
It is assumed by the parties that the statement of facts prefixed to the opinion in the record is not the finding required by
the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2, 18 Stat., Part 3, 27, and we
assume for purposes of decision that under the act of May 2,
1890, c. 182, § 9, 26 Stat. 81, 86, no such finding of facts was
-necessary. See Oklahoma City y. McMaster, 196 U. S. 529;
De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S.303. But when, as here,
the court of first instance saw the witnesses, the full court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the Territory would deal with its finding as it would with the
verdict of a jury, and would not go beyond questions of the
admissibility of evidence and whether there was any evidence
to sustain the conclusion reached. Ellisonv. Beannabia,4 Oklahoma, 347, 352. This court naturally would go no further unless in an unusual case. See Sanford v. Sanford, 139 U. S. 642.
In view of these preliminaries, if any statement is necessary
here when the judgment sets forth that the court "finds the
issues in said cause in favor of the defendants," a single mattei
would be enough. It appears from the petition that after the
defendant Renfrow, who was the owner of the land, had broken
off his dealings with the plaintiffs, he conveyed the premise,
to the defendant Edwards. In Edwards' answer it is alleged
that he purchased for value and without notice. The answer
of Renfrow though less specific is to like effect. This was one
of the issues in the cause which were found for the defendants,
as upon the evidence it well might be. Therefore it is not necessary to go further in order to show that the judgment cannot
be reversed. For, of course, specific performance is impossible
where the party to the contract has sold the property to one
who is free from all equities. However, as the full court put
its affirmation of the judgment upon other grounds we will not
stop at this point.
The full court sustained the single judge on the ground that
under the Oklahoma statute in force at the time no contract
relating to real estate, other than for a lease for not over one
year, "shall be valid until reduced to writing and subscribed
by the parties thereto; " Laws of 1897,. c. 8, § 4, and that the
statute had not been satisfied, or the case taken out of it by
part performance. This statute, if taken literally and naturally, goes further than its English prototype. It is not satisfied by a memorandum made with a different intent, but requires an instrument drawn for the purpose of embodying the
contract, and, in the case of an_agreement to buy and sell, the
subscription of both the buyer and seller, not merely that of
"the party to be charged therewith." McCormick v. Bonfils,

HALSELL
202 U. S.

,. .RENFROW.,

Opinion of the Court.

9 Oklahoma, 605, 618. There was no such instrument. - We
rather infer that the court below inclined toward the foregoing
construction, but its discussion suggests that possibly a memorandum to be gathered from connected documents might be
enough, and, therefore, again, we do not stop here.
The case for the plaintiffs is this: Shields, an agent v hout
authority in writing, as required by the Oklahoma statute,
made an agreement to sell the land for ten thousand dollars
and received a check for five hundred dollars. Material additions were made to this check afterwards by the plaintiffs, so
that it is a question at least whether it was admissible-in evidence. Wilson's Stat. Old. 1903, §831. See Bacon v. Hooker,
177 Massachusetts, 335, 337. The agent telegraphed to Renfrow that he had sold. "the forty acres ten thousand cash five
hundred forfeit," and Renfrow telegraphed btck confirming the
sale. Later it turned out that a parcel of fifty by one hundred
feet had been conveyed to a third person. The parties met
and it was agreed orally that two hundred dollars should be
taken from the price for this. - It Was found further that one
Springstine had or claimed possession of a 'part of the lancdt
under a.lease. Renfrow was willing to convey and to take..
proceedihgs to turn Springstine out, but the plaintiffs refused
to take .a conveyance or to- pay unless they were put into possession in thirty days. While matters stood thus Renfro*
signed a deed of the land, excepting the conveyed parcel, expressed to be in consideration of ten thousand dollars, sent it
to a bank and wrote to the plaintiff Halsell that he had done so,
and had instructed the bank to deliver the deed'upon his depositing $9,500 to Renfrow's credit and $500 to the credit of
Shields within two days. This is the nearest approach to a
memorandum that was made. Halsell replied to Renfrow that
he had made a tender of $9,300, and that this with the $200
agreed to be allowed for the strip conveyed and the $500 held
by Shields would make the $10,000. He further stated that
he had requested delivery of possession which had been refused, and that Renfrow could not expect the money without

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

giving possession. Renfrow replied, stating that he had been
Willing to give such possession as he could, suggesting that he
would have arranged in another way as to the $200, and that
he regretted. the termination of the matter. That was the end
of the dealings, and directly afterwards the sale to Edwards
took place.
As the plaintiffs were unwilling to accept the deed unless a
-fuller and more undisputed possession were given than could
be given at the time, Renfrow was justified in selling to another
who would take the risk or rely upon his covenants. In fact
Edwards paid $500 to get possession, in addition to Renfrow's
price of $10,000.. Moreover, the plaintiffs' unwillingness shows
that apart from the differences as to consideration there was
no agreehient with regard to an essential term of the conveyance when/] the deed was sent to the bank. -There may have
been a previous oral agreenent, such as is suggested by the
letter and: deed, but before any memorandum was made and
while Renfrow still was free the plaintiffs were informed that
Renfrow would undertake to do only what he could, and what
we have stated. So far, therefore, as the writings convey the
notion, of an absolute undertaking to convey a present clear
possession, they do not express the modified bargain to which
Renfrow was willing to assent. The delivery of the deed was
authorized only upon payment of the price, and acceptance of
it would have been an assent to Renfrow's terms. But there
was no Isuch assent. The plaintiffs say now that the differences
were only trifles, not going to the essence of the contract, but
they Tjere enough at the time to make them unwilling to accept
le deed.
In fiew
of the findings of the trial judge it is difficult to
see
what Ls6pen as to part performance. As there was no agreement Jt the last stage, there can have been no part performance
then. The few steps, if any, that were taken, while everything
rested in parol, before the modification as to the amount of land
and the price, and the arising of the difficulty as to possession,
were disputed and obliterated by Springstirie under his adverse

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. WEHRMANN. 295
202 U. S.

Syllabus.

claim as a lessee. We think that this matter does not deserve
discussion at greater length.
It is said that the defendant Renfrow is estopped by the payment of five hundred dollars to Shields by force of the act of
1897, c. 8, § 7, to the effect that any person "having knowingly
received and accepted the benefits, or any part thereof, or any
conveyance, mortgage or contract relating to real estate, shall
be concluded thereby and estopped to deny the validity of such
conveyance, mortgage or contract, or the power or authority
to make and execute the same, except on the ground of fraud."
But here again we axe met by the findings and the facts. The
check given to Shields was not a payment to Renfrow. Shields
had not even oral authority. to convey or to receive the purchase money,. The terms of Renfrow's letter to Halsell about
the deed show that he had not accepted the delivery of the
check as a payment then, and since then it would seem that
neither party to the litigation has been willing to accept the
money.
.It appears to us unnecessary to amplify further the reasons
for affirming the judgment below.
Judgment affirmed.

MERCHANTS'

NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI v.
WEHRMANN.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 256.

Argued April 26, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1906.

Where a national bank sued for debts of a partnership, shares of which it
had taken as security and afterwards acquired in payment of the debt,
sets up at every stage of the suit its intention of relying on the bankruptcy law of the United States, it cannot be required in the first instance
to anticipate the specific and qualified form in which the immunity finally
was denied; and if in addition thereto there is a certificate of the state
court to the effect that it Was material to consider the question of the

