OCTOBER TERM, i905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

GILA BEND RESERVOIR AND IRRIGATION COMPANY
v GILA WATER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

SUPREME COURT

OF THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. 226.

Argued April 12, 16, 190.-Decided May 14, 1906.

The absence of a formal order by the court need not necessarily prevail
over its essential action.
Where appellant's only assignment of error on an appeal from the Supreme
Court of a Territory is that the court had not acquired jurisdiction of the
property in that suit because it was in its custody in another suit in
which a receiver had been appointed, and the receivership had not been
extended or the actions consolidated, but the record clearly shows that
the District Court considered the cases as consolidated and empowered
the receiver appointed in the first suit to sell the property and apply
the proceeds as directed in the second suit, and that such decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory and by this court, the assignmentis are without foundation and the decree will be affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William C. Prentiss, with whom Mr. Joseph K. McCammon was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. C. F. Ainsworth for appellee, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant and appellee are Arizona corporations.
The
former brought this suit in the District Court of Maricopa
('ounty to quiet title to certain land and water rights against
the appellee and the Peoria Canal Company, Valley Canal and
Land Company, also Arizona corporations, and against the
Arizona Construction Company, an Illinois corporation, and
against certain persons, one of whom was a resident of the Ter-

GILA RESERVOIR.CO,
202 U. S.

V.

GILA WATER CO.

271

Opinion of the Court.

ritory, and the others non-residents. The complaint contained
the usual allegations. All the defendants but the Gila Water
Company, appelice herein, disclaimed title. The appellee answered denying appellant's title and, in a cross complaint, set
up title in itself. To the cross complaint appellant answered
that appellee claimed title "under and by virtue of a certain
judgment and decree of this court (District Court of Maricopa
County) rendered and entered November 20, 1894, and certain
pretended receiver's deed or deeds made, executed and delivered under and by authority of said judgment and decree
and proceedings thereunder, or a certain deed or deeds of some
person or, persons deriving title under, through and by virtue
of said receiver's deed or deeds." And it was alleged that said
judgment and the proceedings thereunder were void in that
(1) the action in which the judgment was rendered was a proceeding in ren and that the court never acquired jurisdiction
over the property or any part thereof; (2) that the judgment
was rendered July 21, 1894, and appellant duly appealed from
said judgment to the Supreme Court of the Territory, and the
District Court thereby lost jurisdiction of the.action, and yet
on the twelfth of November, 1894, the District Court entered
a pretended amendment to the judgment and decree, which
was pretended to be in lieu of the original decree of July 21,
and that the only right and title appellee has to the property
is under this "pretended, amended and void judgment and
decree."
It was further alleged that the receiver was duly appointed
in another action and that he took possession of the property,
and that during the time appellee claims to have obtained title
to any of said property the same and the whole thereof was in
the custody of the court and in the possession of the receiver,
and that prior to the comnnencemnent of the suit at bar tlie
court and receiver ceased to have any custody or possession
of the property. .
The trial court found that the appellee was the owner in fee
simple of the property and adjudged that the claim of the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

pellant and all of the defendants in the question to be "invalid
and groundless." The decree was affirmed by the Supreme
Court.
The findings of fact of the Supreme Court are very general.
They are only that the. appellant had not, at the commencerment of the action, any cause of action in respect to the property, and has not now any right, title or interest therein; that
the appellee was the owner in fee simple and in possession
thereof.
The special rulings of the trial court, which were assigned as
,errors and affirmed by the Supreme Court, appear in the opinion
of the latter court and in the bill of exceptions. These rulings
were made upon the introduction in evidence by the appellee
to sustain its title of certain judgments rendered by the District Court of Maricopa County. The facts as to these judgments are stated by the Supreme Court as follows:
"It-appears that in the District Court of Maricopa County;
in the year 1893, the appellant brought suit against the Peoria
Canal Company and the Arizona Construction Company and
applied for a receiver therein to take possession of the property
in controversy in this action. Thereafter the court appointed
one James McMillan as such receiver who took possession of
the property, and by leave of the court issued a large amount
of receiver's certificates to meet the expenses of necessary improvements upon the property. This suit was docketed as
number 1728. Pending this action, one W. H. Linn, and
others, brought suit in the District Court of Maricopa County,
their
against the appellant and other defendants, alleging in.
number
action
of
the
pendency
facts,
among
other
complaint,
1728, the appointment of the receiver and the issuing of the
receiver's certificates, and praying, among other things, that
the assets of the Gila Bend Reservoir and Irrigation Company
be marshalled and that the receiver take possession of and
be directed to sell the property of the said company and
from the proceeds of said sale pay the debts adjudged due
against it.

GILA RESERVOIR CO. v. GILA WATER CO.
202 U. S.

273

Opinion of the Court.

"All the parties to this suit, including the Gila Bend Reservoir and Irrigation Company, appeared and answered: A trial
was had and judgment was rendered, in which the receiver was
directed to sell the property. The record further discloses that
a sale was made under this judgment by the receiver, which
was affirmed by the court, and a deed executed by the said
receiver, to the purchaser, who was one of the grantors of the
appellee. ,This judgment was appealed from to this court,
where it was affirmed, and subsequently an appeal was taken
by the appellant to the Supreme Court of the United States,
where the judgment of this court was affirmed. The latter suit
in the court below, was docketed as number 1996. The objection which the appellant urged in the court below to the judgment in cause numbered 1996 was that it appears upon the face
of the record that the judgment, ordering a sale of the premises
by the receiver, was without jurisdiction and void for the reason
that no order was made by the court extending the receiver-.
ship in suit number 1728 to cause number 1996. In passing
upon this objection the trial' court pointed out that all the
parties in the cause number 1728 were parties in cause number
1996, that, when the latter suit was brought, the property was
in the hands of the court, through its receiver, and that after
the bringing of cause number 1996 the record disclosed that the
court and all the parties, including the Gila Bend Reservoir and
Irrigation Company, treated the property in possession of the
receiver, appointed in cause number 1728, as though it had
been placed in his possession as a receiver appointed in cause
number 1996, and, further, that orders were made by the court
concerning said receivership which were entitled in both suits
jointly, and held that, although no order was made consolidating
the two suits and no order was in terms made extending the
receivership to the second suit number 1996, the receivership
was in fact extended to the second suit, and that the court, by
its action, ratified the acts of the receiver in the second suit and
thereby, in effect, extended his power and authority as such
receiver to said second suit.
vorL. ccTT-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

"The view thus taken is amply justified by an inspection of
the record in the two suits, and upon this ground alone the
action of the trial court, in admitting the judgment, was correct,"
We concur in this conclusion. The objection made by the
appellant to it is, as we have indicated, that suit No. 1996 was
a proceeding in rem and that the court did not acquire jurisdiction of the property for the reason that it was in the custody of the court in suit No. 1728, and that the court in the
latter case did not extend the receivership to the No. 1996
,nor consolidate the suits, and, therefore, had no power to order
the sale of the property by the receiver in No. 1728.
This is tantamount to saying that the absence of formal
orders by the court must prevail over its essential action. It
is clear from the record that the District Court considered the
cases pending before it at the same time, considered No. 1996
as the complement of No. 1728, regarded the cases in fact as
consolidated, and empowered the receiver appointed in 1728
to sell 'the. property and distribute the proceeds as directed
by the decree in 1996. The provision of the decree entered
July 21, 1894 (and of the amended decree of November 20,
1894), is as follows:
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court
that James McMillan, the receiver heretofore appointed by this
court, and now in possession of said premises under the orders
of this court, proceed to advertise and sell said property and
distribute the proceeds as directed in the decree."
This decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory and afterwards by this court. The assignments of error,
therefore, are without foundation.
Decree affirmed.

