DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
Svllabus.

202 U.S.

collected, a strong case is presented for the allowance of salvage,
which should hot be lost sight of in determining the principles
applicable to the situation.
The case is clearly not one arising under the revenue laws
as they are defined in Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122,
since the sections of the Revised Statutes above quoted are
only incidentally involved.
The decree*of the Circuit Court of Appeals is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

dissented.

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 196.

Argued March 6, 7, 1906.-Decidedl4ay 14, 1906.

Although the auditor and both courts below. found that plaintiff in error's
testator had been guilty of fraud and that his estate was liable, and under
the general rule this court will not disregard a particular state of facts
found by both courts below, still it can and will do so, when it is constrained to the conclusion that the premise upon which those courts acted
is without any support in the evidence and rests upon a mere mistaken
assumption; and so held in this case where the finding of fraud rested
on the uncorroborated testimony of an interested witness who had

been so discredited by uncontroverted evidence in regard to his own
acts of omission and commission as to render it impossible to accept his
testimony as establishing the alleged fraud of the deceased.
Where- by the law of their domicil, as is the case in Louisiana, minors are
represented by their father as administrator, with full power under that
law to receipt for, and administer for their account, property bequeathed
to them by a testator domiciled and dying in Virginia, a transfer of such
property to the father as the administrator or representative of his minor
children by a person having possession thereof in the District of Columbia, is valid and binding.
Under the circumstances of this case decedent's liability for an amount
invested having been fixed with accuracy as to time and amount, and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 .U.S.

being impossible from the record to ascertain the ultimate fate of the
investment, and whether it was so lost as to relieve decedent from responsibility, the court will hold the estate liable therefor with legal
interest but subject to adjustment for admitted overpayments to one
of the complainants.

IN June, 1898, Philip A. Tracy died in the city of Washington,
where he was domiciled. His will,, executed in Washington on
March 2, 1894, was duly probated in August, 1898. The will
directed the executors to build a family monument, to cause
to be inscribed thereon the names and the dates of the birth
and death of the deceased, of his father and mother and of a
brother and sister, in accordance with minute directions contained in a memorandum accompanying the will. A bequest
of one thousand dollars was made to the Oak Hill Cemetery
Company to perpetually care for the lot and the .Monument.
In addition, after making several minor bequests, one of which,
was a gift of one hundred dollars to the Home for Incurables,
two thousand dollars was given for a Sunday School building
for the Trinity Episcopal Church in the city of Washington.
The residue of the estate was bequeathed "to the trustees of
the Epiphany Church Home in this city, to pay for the enlargement of the building now used as the home, or for the
erection of another building for the same use and purpose."
George W. Oray and J. J. Darlington, the executors named in
the will, qualified.
Within one year, and before receiving notice of the claim
which is the subject of this suit, the executors of Tracy had
paid the debts, had discharged the minor legacies above referred to, and had in hand to be applied to the other provisions
of the will forty-seven thousand dollars in money and securi.ties and two unimproved lots in the city of Washington of
small value. The further execution of the will was prevented
by a demand to pay the claim which forms the basis of this
suit, and upon refusal to do so on June 10, 1899, this bill in
equity was filed to establish and enforce the claim. The complainants were Erle H. Turner and Wilmer Turner, and Ashby

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and Lunette Turner; the last two, being minors, were represented by Wilmer Turner as their next friend.
It was in substance averred in the bill that Silas H. Turner,
a paternal uncle of the complainants, died in Fauquier County,
Virginia, on September 21, 1888, leaving a will by which he
bequeathed equally to complainants, who were the children of
Thomas M. Turner, all the property of which the testator died
possessed, the will being as follows:
"WASHINGTON, D. C., April 30, 1888.
"I hereby give and bequeath to the four children of my
brother Thomas M. Turner of Minden, Louisiana, all property
real and personal, owned by me, or in which I have any interest at the time of my death, and appoint Philip A. Tracy to
distribute the proceeds of the said property equally between
them.
"S. H. TURNER.
"Witness: PHILIP A. TRACY.
"GEORGE G, FENTON."

It was also alleged that this will was admitted to probate
in Fauquier County, Virginia, on or about November 28, 1888;
It was then alleged that Philip A. Tracy was the confidential
agent and trustee of Turner, deceased, and in that capacity had
in his possession money which, as agent and trustee, Tracy
had invested for the benefit of said Turner. It was charged
that shortly before the death of Turner, Tracy had given Turner a memorandum or list, entirely in the handwriting of Tracy,
stating the dates and amounts of the promissory notes held by
Tracy, belonging to said Turner, and the names of the makers
thereof, and that the said notes aggregated $28,972.10. This
memorandum or list, alleged to be wholly in the handwriting
of Tracy, was copied in the bill, and it was averred that after
the death of Turner, Tracy had admitted the accuracy of said
list and his possession of the notes which it embraced. It was
then averred that the land records of the District of Columbia

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

disclosed that all the notes mentioned in the alleged memorandum or list and the accrued interest had been paid after the
death of Silas H. Turner. It was averred that, with the exception of a sum of about fourteen hundred dollars, alleged to
have been paid by Tracy to. Erle H. Turner, no account had
been rendered or distribution made b Tracy of tle aforesaid
property or of the proceeds thereof, and, that, excluding the
payment alleged to have been made, as above stated, to Erle
H. Turner, "the entire trust fund, principal and interest and
profits, had come into the possession of the defendants as executors of Tracy."
The paragraph of the bill immediately preceding the prayer
was as follows:
"21. That the domicil and citizenship of. the parents of
complairiants have always been since the birth of these complainants either in the State of Louisiana, which was their domicil, until about the - day of August, 1889, or in the State of
Texas, which has been since and is now the domicil of said
parents and of all complainants, exqept complainant Erle H.
Turner, whose domicil is now Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Complainants are informed and believe and therefore aver that
by the laws of Louisiana and of Texas the parents of minor
children are not of right guardians of the estate of such minors,
and no person is authorized to receive or demand the estate
of any minor domiciled in either of said States, except such
persons as shall be duly appointed by a court of the States
having competent jurisdiction; and that neither the father nor
the mother of any of these complainants nor any other person
has ever been appointed by any court guardian of either the
p rson or estate of any one of these complainants, and no one
of these complainants has now or has ever had a legal guardian
of the person or estate, and at no time has there been any person in being competent in law to demand or receive, inby their
reauntil,
behalf, ny estate fQr any of these omplainants,
*son of reaching their majority, two of these complainants have
become sui juris."

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202.U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Discovery was prayed of a paper which had been written and
left by Tracy, containing representations regarding the claim
of complainants. In substance the prayer was for a discovery
and account in t04 premises, and for a decree distributing
among the complainants the sum which might be found due
upon the account. There was also a prayer for general relief.
The answer of the executors of Tracy was in substance as
follows: That Silas H. Turner and Trauy had business relations
was admitted; but in the main all the material averments of
the bill were alleged not to be within the knowledge of the
executors, and proof of such averments was demanded. It
was expressly averred, however, that Tracy, after the death.
of Silas H. Turner, had fully accounted for any property which
he had in his possession, by a transfer and payment made to
Thomas M. Turner, the father of the complainants, as their
natural tutor and agent, they being then minors, as evidericed
by a receipt signed by Thomas M. Turner, and 7dated November 30, 1888, which receipt was copied in the answer. Answering the paragraph of the bill calling for the discovery in respect
to the paper left by Tracy regarding the claim of complainants,
the defendants set forth that there came into their possession
the following paper:
"WASHINGTON, D. C., -, 1898.
"To the executors of my last will and testament:
"Some time in 1871, Silas H. Turner of Virginia, whom I
had known for a long time, of his own volition and without
solicitation from me, came to the city and asked me to aid him
in investing some twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) in real
estate notes. I consented and in a few weeks the whole
amount was invested, and he took the notes home with him.
The interest was payable semi-annually, and, for a time, he
sent me notes by mail about the time the interest was due so
that it could be credited on the notes to satisfy the maker.
This becafne irksome and, after a time, be brought me the
notes, keeping a list of them, and asked me to keep them to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

save him the trouble of sending them to me by mail whenever
the interest was due. I kept the notes in an envelopie with
his name upon it, and about twice a year sent him a memorandum of interest paid, and when the amount reached several
hundred dollars I would buy another note, and send him a
memorandum of the same. Also when a note was matured
and paid; I would' buy another note, unless he needed the
money, which he rarely did, and send him a memorandum of
it. This condition continued until 1888, when he died in Virginia, leaving his entire*estate to the three minor children of
his brother then living inLouisiana. In his will he named me
to settle up the estate and divide the money among the children; but, as the laws of Virginia require two witnesses to a
will and says neither of them shall be an executor, I could not
qualify, and, as the father, if appointed, could not have given
the bond, I handed him the package of notes, advised him to
deposit them in the Second National Bank of Washington,
D. C., which he did, and agreed to look after them and have
them all paid, he being out of the city. His other relations, a
sister, some nephews and nieces were much displeased with
the will, and threatened to attempt to have it set aside,. but
have not done so. The father, a good, honest man, took the
money or most of it, went to Texas and bought a farm, and
was doing well until the panic of 1893 came on. Since then
they had a hard time, getting little or nothing for their farm
products, and have written me some heartrending letters, wishing they had left the money here. The children are of age, but
of course the father could not pay them their parts of the estate, and though not a word has been said about it, I thought
perhaps after my death, if they hear of it in time, some of
them might attempt to hold me responsible, and if they should
make such an attempt I hereby authorize and direct my executors to employ the best counsel in the city to defend my
estate in the District Courts and in the Supreme Court of the
United States, if it be necessary to appeal the. case to that
court, and to pay all costs and lawyers' fees out of my estate.

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

201

Statement of the Case.

I suppose some one would have to qualify as administrators
under the will before any action could be taken. My turning
the property over to the father helped to keep it in possession
of those to whom it was left, and to discourage and shut out
the dissatisfied relatives, for if any one had qualified the matter would have been open for a year, and they would undoubtedly have made an attempt to have the will set aside. This
is a plain statement of the case, intended for the private ears
of my executors."
Referring to the prayer for discovery in other respects, it
was averred that the only papers concerning business dealings
between Tracy and Silas H. Turner which had come into the
possession of the executors were the receipt given by Thomas
M. Turner, as already stated, the memorandum of Tracy addressed to his executors, and various letters and receipts signed
by Erle H. Turner. The executors specially alleged that to
their knowledge none of the proceeds of any of the notes referred to in the alleged memorandum or list averred in the
complaint had ever come into the hands of the executors, and
that they had no knowledge of any disposition made of any
property belonging to Silas H. Turner which might have been
in the hands of Tracy, except as shown by the receipt of November 30, 1888, signed by Thomas M. Turner as natural tutor
and agent of his minor children. The laches of the complainants was expressly set up as depriving them of the right to
any of the relief asked for. Denying knowledge of where
Thomas M. Turner was domiciled at the time of the signing
of the receipt, or the lawful powers of Turner as to signing the
receipt, the court was asked to determine the rights of the
executors in the premises.
After joinder of issue and the taking of general evidence the
case was heard in the Supreme Court of the District.
In substance the court in its opinion declared that Tracy
and Thomas M. Turner, the father of the complainants, had
conspired 'to despoil them, they being then minors, of their
rightful share of their uncle's estate; that the receipt given by

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

Turner to Tracy did not protect Tracy or his estate, because
Turner had not qualified in accordance with the laws of Louisiana so as to entitle him to represent his minor children, but
even if he had so'qualified Tracy had no authority to pay from
the fund in his hand except in the due course of administration. The court also observed that the words of the will appointing Tracy to distribute the proceed of the property bequeathed equally between the four children of Thomas M.
Turner imposed the duty upon Tracy of qualifying as executor,
or, if he was unable or unwilling to do so, of applying to the
court for the appointment of a suitable.person. And the fraud
and wrong of Tracy in turning over the property to the father
was emphasized by the statement that Tracy wrote the will
of the deceased and was then informed by the latter that his
object was to prevent his estate from coming into the hands
of the father of the children because of his spendthrift character.
Although the court concluded that the estate of Tracy
was liable,
it did not fix the amount for which the estate
was
accountable, but referred the matter to an auditor to state an
account and to take further evidence in respect to the expenditures properly chargeable against the share of each of the
the principles expressed in the opinion.
complainants
The auditorupon
heard additional testimony bearing upon
the
expenditures made by Thomas M. Turner for the maintenance
of his children out of the fund which he had received from
Tracy. An account as of February 1, 1894, was stated to the
court. On this account the receipt given by Thomas M. TUrner was disregarded. The sum in the hands of Tracy and due
to the estate of Silas H. Turner was fixed by the alleged list
set out in the bill. The ground upon which ihis was done was
thus stated by the auditor in his re)ort:
"After the death of Silas Turner there was found among his
papers an envelope or jacket indorsed 'Notes belongieg to S.
H. Turner 1888;" it contained a list, in the handwriting of
Tracy, of the notes, giving the date, name of maker, and
amount. The date of the last note on the list is given as

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

March 12, 1888. The aggregate principal of these notes is
$28,972.10.
"Evidently all of these securities were in Tracy's possession
as late as March 12, 1888.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It being conclusively shown that within six months before
Turner's death Tracy had nearly $29,000.00 principal of securities in his possession as agent or trustee of Turner, the inevitable presumption of law is that of continued possession and
accountability."
Making certain deductions and additions, which it is unnecessary presently to refer to, the auditor found the amount due
from Tracy's estate on February 1, 1904, principal and interest,
to be $48,601.44, which was attributed in varying proportions
to the complainants, depending upon the amount which the
report found each one of them was bound to contribute for
maintenance or sums received out of the fund. The report
was excepted to, exceptions were overruled, and' a decree was
entered adjudging the sums found due to the complainants in
accordance with the report, giving the right to collect the de-'
ficiency out of further assets if any were discovered. An appeal
was prosecuted. The Court of Appeals affirmed the decree,
24 App. D. C. 573, with a slight modification, rendered necessary by the allowance of an increased charge against Erle H.
Turner. The Court of Appeals, in its opinion, in effect expressed views similar to those which had been stated in the
opinion of the court below and in the report of the auditor.
The receipt of Thomas M. Turner was disregarded. Taking
into consideration the testimony, the paper alleged in the bill
as a list was treated as being all in the handwriting of Tracy
and as being but a single document, and, therefore, as fixing.
the amount for which the estate of Tracy was accountable.
Mr. Clarence R. Wilson and Mr. Nathaniel Wilson for appellants:
The payment of November 30, 1888, by Tracy to Turher

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

202 ,U. S.

was made at the request and by reason of the representations
of Turner and was, on Tracy's part, made in good faith and
not with the purpose of personal profit. Turner was clerk of
a court in Louisiana and his statements were made with apparent authority. There were no debts of the estate and there
was no occasion for administration.
According to the laws of Louisiana, Thomas. M. Turner, as
father of the complainants, had the right to the possession and
enjoyment of the estates of his minor children during their
minority. Revised Civil Code of Louisiana, 1870, in force in
1888; Book I, tit. 7, ch. 5, under the heading "Paternal authority; " §§ 221-224; Book II, tit. 3; §§ 533, 540, 560, 589.
These' provisions of the Code are construed and explained
in the following cases: Cleveland v. Sprowl, 12 Rob. 172; Handy
v. Parkinson, 10 La. Ann. 92; Greenwood v. City of New Orleans,
12 La. Ann. 426; Snow v. Copley, 3 La. Ann. 610; Renfroe v.
Gates, 7 La. Ann. 569; Succession of Allan, 48 La. Ann.
1240.
A voluntary payment by a person having in his hands funds
belonging to persons living in a foreign jurisdiction is valid, if,
according to the laws of that jurisdiction, the person to whom
the payment was made had the right to receive the money;
and a receipt given by such person is a valid discharge and
acquittance to the person so paying the money.
The principle, that administration when had at all must be
had within the jurisdiction 'in which a testator's will is filed,
or within the jurisdiction in which his property was situated,
has no application to the present case.
Courts look with favor upon the private settlement of estates, where there are no debts or where the claims of creditors
are satisfied. Akin v. Akin, 78 Georgia, 24; McCracken v.
McCaslin, 50 Mo. App. 85; Roberts v. Messenger, 134 Pa. St.
298; Foote v. Foote, 61 Michigan, 181; Filbey v. Carrier, 45
Wisconsin, 469; Burton v. Brugier, 30 La. Ann. 479.
A voluntary payment to a foreign executor is a good discharge to the person making the payment, even as against a

DARLINGTON v TURNER.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

subsequent demand by an executor appointed by the court in
the jurisdiction in which the property was situated. Doolittle
v. Lewis, 7 Johns. Ch. 45; Williams v. Storrs, 6 Johns. Ch. 353;
Parsons v. Lyman, 20 N. Y. 103; Bank v. Sharp, 53 Maryland, 521; Wilkins v. Ellitt, 9 Wall. 740; Rand v. Hubbard, 4
Met. 252;*Hutchins v. Bank, 12 Met. 421; Stevens v. Gaylord,
11 Massachusetts, 256; Trecothick v. Austin, 4 Mason, 6, 33;
Mackey v. Coxe, 18 How. 104.
Mr. William G. Johnson for appellees:
The payment by Tracy to Turner was not a discharge, because a payment to anyone other than the party entitled or
to his agent is no payment in law. Agency can only arise by
contract or operation of law. The appellees made no such
contract and could make none, because they 'were all minors
and he had never been appointed their guardian, and his only
relation to them was the natural one of father. The fact that
Thomas M. Turner was the. father of the complainants is immaterial. Payment to him was no better than to a stranger.
Dagley v. Tolferry, 1 P. Wms. 285; Cooper v. Thornton, 3
Brown's Ch. Cas. 96; Miles v. Kaigler, 10 Yerg. 10; Perry v.
Carmichael, 95 Illinois, 519. See also Tripp v. Gifford, 155
Massachusetts, 111; P. C. C. & St. L. Ry.v. Haley, 170 Illinois,
610.
Thomas Turner had no power under Louisiana laws to receive payment.
He was not a "natural tutor," as he describes himself in
signing the receipt. At that time his wife, the mother of the
children, was living and the parents were not divorced. During the marriage there cannot be a "natural tutor." State v.
Parish Judge of Orleans, 6 La. Rep. 363.
Turner never complied with requirements of Louisiana law
made a condition precedent to the right of possession. It is
not, therefore, in the character of "tutor" that he could acquire any rights to the estate of his minor children, but this
right is claimed for him as "usufructuary." Arts. 223, 224,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

540, 557-560, La. Code. See also art. 3350 added by the
act of 1869; Succession of Arland, 42 La. Ann. 548.
Louisiana laws have no application to property without the
State. If Louisiana's laws of permission can have greater
force in this District than in Louisiana, then, indubitably, her
laws of prohibition upon those attempting to exercise authorities under them must have at least an equal force here with
that which they possess in Louisiana.
According to the decisions of the highest court of that State,
construing its own statutes, Thomas Turner, had he complied
with all the prerequisites of the laws of Louisiana, would have
been without power, under its laws, to receive property situated out of the State. Moise v. Life Association, 45 La. Ann.
737.
The laws of Virginia, the domicil of the testator, control and
exclude the laws of Louisiana. Harrisonv. Nixon, 9 Pet. 483.
The common law of England is in force in Virginia. Va. Code,
1887, § 2. See also Cooper v. Thornton, 3 Brown's Ch. Cas. 96.
The right of usufructuary claimed for Thomas Turner, under the laws of Louisiana, in this case, is not an official character in which he is representative of the Louisiana legatees
and claims the legacy in their behalf, but is a beneficial interest
inhimself, in right of his parentage, a part of the Louisiana
law of domestic relations, applying to persons and property
within the State, and can clearly have no application to property never in the State. Texas and Pacific Ry. Co. v. Humble,
181 U. S. 57.
MR. JUSTICiE

WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

-delivered the opinion of the court.
As no reference was made to the subject in the opinions
below and as we construe the argument at bar as not seriously
pressing such question, we assume, for the purposes of the case,
the right of the complainants to maintain under the averments.
of their bill a direct action or suit to recover the fund in con-

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

troversy. To come to the substantial merits we summarily
dispose of certain preliminary contentions. First. We are of
opinion that upon the pleadings and proof the Court of Appeals did not err in holding that such fiduciary relation existed
between Silas II.Turner and Philip A. Tracy as made a court
of equity the proper forum to seek relief. Second. We also
think that under the circumstances of the case the contention
that the bill should be dismissed because of the variance between the allegations and the proof is untenable.
In proper sequence the questions for decision are threefold:
First. Was the transfer of the property of the estate of Silas
H. Turner made as shown on the receipt given to Tracy by
Thomas M. Turner as the representative of his minor children
lawful and binding upon such minors? Second. If the payment
referred to was binding (lid the receipt and the paper contemporaneously executed by Tracy, in connection with the proof,
establish that he or his estate was liable for the value of the
investment in real estate shown by the receipt and the paper
in question to have been retained in the control of Tracy?
Third. Did the receipt, if binding, and the paper in connection
with it, embrace all the property held by Tracy as the trustee
of Silas H. Turner, or, in other words, (lid Tracy at the time the
receipt was given honestly account for the property in his
hands, or did he fraudulently retain for his own benefit a large
amount of property of the estate which should have been paid
over and for which Tracy or his estate is therefor liable?
Whilst in logical order the questions for decision are as stated,
we shall consider them inversely. In other words, we shall
first dispose of the alleged fraudulent retention by Tracy of a
large portion of the trust fund at the time he made the payment
and transfer of property to Thomas M. Turner as the representative of his minor children. We do this because the charge
of conspiracy and fraud as pressed, not only in the argument
at bar, but in the opinions below, was treated as affecting the
question of the binding nature of the transfer made by Tracy
to Turner; and by first disposing of that branch of the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

we shall in a great measure disentangle the question of the
binding efficacy of the transfer and payment to Thomas M.
Turner from the alleged fraud.
It will be useful, before particularly considering the facts
upon which the alleged fraud on the part of Tracy immediately
depends, \o state the antecedents of Tracy and of the two
Turners, the dealings between them and the results which
followed therefrom, so far as they are uncontroverted.
Philip A Tracy was born in Fauquier County, Virginia, in
1835. He was living in Washington soon after the close of the
,Civil War, was a bookkeeper in a mercantile house, and later
became an employ6 of the Post Office Department, and so continued, if not to, at least up to a short time prior to, his death.
He never married. As far isit may be inferred from the testiniony in the record, taking no present concern of the charges
of fraud. made in the bill, the conviction is irresistibly conveyed to our mind that Tracy was a reasonably intelligent,
moral, industrious and circumspect person, of a religious
tendency of mind, careful in money matters, particular as to
details and.of a kindly, though somewhat eccentric, nature.
Silas H. Turner was also a native of Virginia, and whilst
little is shown by the record of his antecedents and character,
it is established that he was also a man of thrift and of some
business capacity, having been at one time a railroad agent,
a dealer in merchandise and cattle, a clerk and an accountant,
accustomed to the settlement of estates. Between Tracy and
Turner there existed an association and friendship, taking its
origin, if not in a boyhood acquaintance, at least one that
related back to many years before the death of Turner. As
a result of this friendship Turner, trusting in the capacity and
integrity of Tracy, began in 1871 to confide his savings to the
&1ter for investment. Tracy, loaning money upon the security
of real estate, was first in the habit, when a loan was'made, of
sending the notes of the borrowers to Turner, who, as the in-,
terest payments were about to fall due, would send the notes
to Tracy to have payments of interest credited thereon. After

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a time this practice of sending and returning the notes became
irksome, and Turner sent the notes to Tracy, who thereafter
kept them in his custody. As money came into the hands
of Tracy, either from the payments of principal or of interest
upon the notes, he reinvested .the money in other notes, sending Turner a memorandum of the new investments as made.
There is nothing produced either from the papers of Tracy or
of Turner showing that formal accounts were ever exchanged
between the parties. Certain it is, that on April 30, 1898,
Turner was in Washington and in personal communication with
Tracy. At the desk of Tracy in the Post Office Department,
at the request of Turner, the will probated as mentioned in
the statement of facts was written by Tracy for Turner, and
by the latter executed. How long Turner remained in Washington.-at this time the record does not disclose, nor does it
accurately show his movements or exhibit any letters passilng
between Tracy and Turner from the time of the making of the
will up to the death of Turner.
Some tithe during the summer of 1888. Turner-an ill man,
suffering with Bright's disease-went to the residence of
Mrs. Rust, a niece, living in. Fauquier County, Virginia, near
Warrenton, where he remained until his death on Septemher 21, 1888. At his death Turner left surviving him a maiden
sister, who lived in Frederick, Maryland, Miss Henrietta Turner; a brother Thomas M. Turner, living in Minden, Louisiana,
and various nephews and nieces, children of deceased brothers
and sisters.
Between Thomas M. Turner, the brother living in Louisiana,
and Silas H1. Turner, it would seem, there had been little or no
intercourse for more than thirty years, Thomas having left
Virginia when quite a young man. Notified of the serious
illness of his brother, Thomas M. Turner, about a month and
a half before the death of Silas, came to the house of Mrs. Rust
and there remained until the death. Thomas M. Turner had
had at that tine quite a varied experience of men and affairs.
ieaving Virginiia as a youth he went to Memphis, Tennessee,
VOL. CCII - 14

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

for the purpose of establishing a school. Not succeeding there
he went to Missouri and became a bookkeeper for a commercial
firm. At the outbreak of the war he joined the Confederate
army. At its termination he established himself at Minden,
Louisiana, and began merchandising, and also operated a
steamboat landing. He married, bought a farm near the town
of Minden, where he lived, and was for a year bookkeeper for
a large business house; afterwards became a division superintendent of education; was subsequently a clerk of the state
District Court-a court of unlimited general jurisdiction; was
the parish treasurer and treasurer of the school board; for a
time served as a justice of the peace, worked for lawyers in
making up legal accounts, prepared the collectors' tax duplicates, etc.; 'afterwards became deputy clerk, and held the
latter office at the time he was called to Virginia on account
of tie illness of his brother. At the time lie came toVirginia
he left 'at Minden his wife and five children, all minors and
the issue of the marriage, the youngest being an infant, who
livedI )ut a.coiparatively short time. The names and dates of
birth of the other children were as follows: Erle H., born on
October 21, 1868; Wilmer, born on October 11, 1875;, Ashby,
born on February 3, 1880, and Lunette, born on December 19,
1882.
Omitting reference to the controverted question as to what
passed between Silas and Thomas preceding the death of the
former, certain it is that after the death of Silas there was found
in a trunk belonging to him some few )ersonal effects, the will
which was afterwards probated, and an envelope containing
papers-the so-called list set out in the bill and referred to in
the report of the auditor and in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals.

On September 28, 1888, Thomas M. Turner came to Washington, and in company with Eppa Hunton, Jr., Esq., a meiber of the Virginia bar, had an interview with Tracy. Whatever took place at this interview forms, we think, one of the
principal controversies of the case, and we shall have occasion

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
.202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hereafter to fully advert-to it. Certain it is upon that day
Turner received from Tracy in cash a little over four hundred
dollars, and Turner returned to Virginia From that time
(September 28, 1888) up to November 26, 1888, except a
letter written by Tracy to Turner on October 10, 1888, there
is nothing-in the record showing any relations between Tracy
and Turner concerning the property in the hands of Tracy.
On the date last named (November 26, 1888) Mr. Hunton
offered the will of Silas H. Turner for probate in the County
Court of Fauquier County; a commission was issued to take
the testimony of Tracy aid the other attesting witness to
the will, and the commission was executed on November 28,
in the city of Washington, immediately taken to Warrenton, and on the same day the will was admitted to
probate.
The next day, after the probate of the will, Turner appeared in Washington and called upon Tracy. Tracy handed
to Turner a list of the notes, cash and Other property in his
possession, which he proposed to turn over as belonging to
the estate of Silas H. Turner. Turner took the list and examined it overnight, returned the next morning, received the
notes and the additional cash mentioned in the receipt, and
as to a piece of real estate specified in the list received the
following certificate from Tracy:
"I hereby certify that I have invested three thousand six
hundred dollars ($3,600.00) in.. ground on Maryland avenue
between 9th and 10th streets N. E., at thirty-five cents per
square foot, and that Silas H. Turner is entitled to one-half.
of the proceeds derived from the sale of the same, after deducting the cost of grading, subdividing and examining titles,
etc.
"PHILIP A. TRAcY."
The entire question of fraud on the part ofTracy depends
upon the statements of Turner as to what took place between
himself and Tracy when he gave the foregoing receipt, and as
to the conduct of the latter concerning the so-called list which

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

has been previously refeired to. This we shall consider when
we come to the controverted questions.
At the suggestion of Tracy the notes covered by Turner's
full receipt were placed in a bank at Washington for collection,
Tracy introducing Turner to the bank and assisting him in
opening the account. Turner went to Virginia, with some of
the cash received paid the funeral expenses and the debts of
his brother, took his sister and a niece with him to Louisiana,
and from Louisiana he went to Texas with his family and also
with the sister and niece just referred to. In Texas, Turner
,bought a lot in a town called Vernon, boarded his family until
he built and furnished a house, bought and partially paid for
a ranch consisting of six hundred and forty acres and equipped
it with stock and inachinery. In the summer of 1890. he
brought this entire family to Virginia, leaving his son Erle H.,
who had then become of age, on the farm in Texas as manager.
lie bought, in his own name,. a house and lot in Front Royal
Virginia, the possession of whichli he turned over to his niece,
Mrs. Rust, telling her that it was hers, and that it was done
in accordance with directions given before his death by his
brother Silas. Whilst in Virginia he visited Washington and
saw Tracy. In the fall of 1.890 Turner went to Texas, leaving
his family in Virginia. Ile remained in Texas but a short time,
coming bacik to Virginia either in the late fall of 1890 or early
winter of 1891. In February, 1891, he drew on the proceeds
Of lie notes which had been deposited a check for the sum
of forty-eight hilidred dollars and carried the money away
on his person, stating in his testimony that one reason why
he did so was that he did not want the heirs in Virginia to
know where the property was; that he was trying to keep
it concealed as nuch as he could; that he was managing his
own affairs and did not want anybody to know anything about
it, and that lie was trying to get the money away from Washington entirely. In April, 1891, Erie H. Turner, the son, left
the farmn in Texas and came to Virginia. He visited Washington with the father, who introduced him to Tracy. The

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

father paid the son out of the proceeds of the notes in bank
twelve hundred dollars, and delivered to him two of the notes
previously turned over by Tracy, which had nbt been collected, of the face value of $525. The father testified that this
payment to the son was made on account of some small indebtedness which he owed the son for money received for
safekeeping from him whilst a boy and in discharge of a debt
which the father declared he owed the son for managing the.
farm, which it had been agreed was to be compensated for
by, a half. interest in the proceeds of two crops. One of the
crops had been harvested and the other was still on the land
and ungathered when the settlement was made.
From the date of the delivery by Tracy to Turner of the
notes to the time of the payment made to Erle H. Turner, as.
just stated,. all the notes delivered by Tracy to Turner and
deposited to the credit of the latter had been paid, principal
and interest, except the two which were turned over to Erle
H.'Turner on the alleged settlement with the father. During
this time the record, shows letters written by Tracy to Turner
of a friendly character, advising Turner concerning the progress
of the collections, and suggesting business methods for overcoming difficulties which arose, without the slightest' intimation in any of the letters that there was in Tracy's mind
even an impression of a difference between himself and Turner,
or that Tracy supposed that there was any claim against him
resulting from the transfer which had been made to Turner
on November 30, 1888, except as indicated on the receipt
then signed by Turner and the accompanying certificate relative
to the Maryland avenue lots.
As the consequence of the settlement made with Erle H.
Turner, practically all that remained of the money coming
from the proceeds of the notes delivered by Tracy to Turner
had been checked out by Turner, and it is true to say that the
record leaves no question that in effect substantially all the
family living and traveling expenses, the disbursements for
the residence lot in Texas, the cost of the erection and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

furnishing of the dwelling, the cost of the farm and of fencing,
and for stock and machinery bought for use thereon, had been
defrayed out of the fund transferred by Tracy, as also the cost
of the Virginia residence bought for Mrs. Rust, and various
gifts of money made by Turner to nieces and nephews.
Not only during the period whilst the notes were being
collected by the bank for the account of Turner and he was
drawing out the proceeds-indeed up to shortly before the
bringing of this suit-Turner swore that he intentionally concealed from his wife and children, and from everybody concerned, the fact that his brother's will had been made in favor
of the children, or that he had received under that will any
property belonging to them. His testimony on this subject
is so vital to the cause that wequote it.
On his direct examination he was interrogated and answered
as follows:
"Q. You stated the other day that while you were East
-in the fall of 1888, at the time of your brother's death, you
wrote home to your wife during that absence? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. I want to know whether or not you told your wife in
any of your letters of the fact that your brother had left an
estate? A. I think I did. I am not positive.
"Q. I want you to state whether or not you told her that
he had by his will left the property to your children? A. I
did not tell her that.
,Q. Was. that omission intentional or accidental? A. It
was intentional, sir.
"Q. After your return to Louisiana, after your brother's
death, when did you and your family leave there? A. We left
there in the summer of 1889.
"Q. Up to that time had you told anybody of the character
and contents of your brother's will? A. No one, sir, except
Mr. Hunton."
On cross-examination the witness testified as follows:
"Q. Did you within a few days after signing that write to
your .wife and tell her that your brother had left his property

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to you? A. I don't think I did, sir. I can't say that I
did. I have no memory of writing such a thing. I may have
written to her that my brother had left property to us. I
.don't know what I wrote. It has been a long time, and I
can't tell you.
"Q. Did you write to her in such a way as to conceal from
her the truth, and intend to do so? A. I didn't intend, that
my children should know the property was left to them.
"Q. Why? A. Well, sir, it was my opinion that it would
not be well for thelh to know it.

"Q. When did your wife first know the terms of the will
of your brother? A. I don't know, sir.
"Q. When did you first communicate to her the fact that
you had obtained the. property or the estate of your brother?
A. I never conimunicated it to her, sir.
"Q. And she never knew it? A. I don't know whether she
knew it or not, but I never told her.
"Q. Do you know that she did know at any time? A. I
can't tell you, sir. I don't know that she did.
"Q. Did you intentionally conceal the fact from your wife
that you had received the estate of your brother? A. I guess
I did, sir, intentionally.
"Q. And never up to the present time have you ever told
her that you did receive your brother's estate? A. Oh, I don't
remember whether I had or not. I couldn't say positively, sir.
"Q. Have you any knowledge yourself as to the time, or
any time before the bringing of this suit, when she knew that
you had and had received your brother's estate? A. No, sir.
"Q. You cannot say? A. I can't say."
Erle H. Turner, the son, after his introduction to Tracy,
evidently inquired from Tracy concerning the estate of Silas
Turner, and he expressly declares that Tracy then informed
him that the property had been left to the children, and also
old him of the investment, in his hands arising from the
Maryland aventue lots. It is plainly to be inferred that Ere

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

Turner communicated this fact to his mother, and, whilst
there is no direct proof as to her consequent interference, it is
inferable that both the mother and the son questioned the
right of Tracy to make further payments to Thomas M. Turner.
Undoubtedly, shortly thereafter, Thomas M. Turner called
upon Tracy to pay over the proceeds arising from the Maryland avenue lots investment, which Tracy refused to do because of legal advice which he had received, unless Turner
would qualify as an administrator, which he- declined to do.
It is also inferable that Erle H. Turner at that time made some
demand upon the father concerning the estate, since the latter
gave to him an order on Tracy for about twenty-five hundred
dollars,.-delivering to the son the certificate as to the investment in real estate, which had been made by Tracy and given
to Turner at the time of the transfer on November 30, 1888.
Erle H. Turner (lid not return to Texas, but remained East,
occasionally visiting Washington and calling upon Tracy,
receiving money from him and corresponding with him from
time to tinie in the most.friendly way.
Thomas M. Turner having exhafisted the proceeds of the
notes which he had received from Tracy, never again 'caine
in personal contact with the latter. He went to Texas, leaving his family in Virginia. In January, 1893, under a power
of attorney, he sold the farm near Minden, which he had transferred in 1870 to hiswife. The expressed consideration for the
sale on behalf of the wife was one thousand dollars. In January, 1894, Turner went to Virginia and took his family back
to Texas. In September, 1894, Turner and his wife executed
and put of record a deed conveying to Wilmer, Ashby and
Lunette Turner the Texas farm, and reciting as the consideration thereof "the, sum of $6,400 to me in hand paid by Philip
A. Tracy, executor of the last will and testament of my deceased brother, Silas H. Turner, in trust for the use and benefit
of my children, viz., Wilmer Turner, Ashby Turner and Lunette
Turner, minors, which said trust fund together with other
similar trust funds was turned over to me without bonds and

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have been used by me for my own use and benefit, said consideration being in payment of so much of said trust fund."
It appears that the land embraced in the farm had originally
been acquired by the grantor of Thomas M. Turner as school
land from the State of Texas. Turner failing to pay the sixty
dollars interest due on deferred payments, the land became
forfeited to the State. Subsequently Turner repurchased it
from the State at a reduced value, viz., one dollar per acre.
In August, 1895, having previously mortgaged the dWelling
house property in Vernon, Turner and his wife conveyed Said
property to the mortgage creditor in cancellation of the then
existing indebtedness. At about this time Mrs. Turner wrote
Tracy, asking for money. Her letter is not in the record, but
the reply of Tracy (c6pied in the margin 1) clearly shows that
the letter was a request from Mrs. Turner to him to pay the
proceeds of the Maryland avenue lots referred to in the. receipt and embraced by the certificate already referred to. A
1 Washington, D. C., Aug. 21, 1894.
Dear Mrs. Turner: I was out of the city and, therefore, did not get your
letter.until yesterday. I could not comply with your request. There is no
money in my hands belonging to the estate of S. H. Turner.
After you and Erie raised a fuss because he had not gotten his share, I
became alarmed and consulted a lawyer, and he advised me not to turn over
another dollar of the estate money until Mr. Turner qualified for the full
amount of the estate.. I informed your husband of the fact, and he declined to qualify (the bond would be over $50,000) and he and Erle agreed
that I should invest the money so that it might be earning something while
in my hands.
I then invested the money in what was then good real estate paper, but
the panic cane on last year, the endorser of the notes failed in business,
and the land has depreciated in value, so that if it were sold now I do not
think it would bring half the amount of the notes. I have over $1,400 of
my money in the same land. If times should ever get good again (which
I doubt) the land would be ample security for the notes. I have let Erie
have some $600 of my funds since I invested the estate money, but I cannot see my way clear to increase the amount in such times as these. I
was surprised at his coming North, without money, in such times as these.
He and his father knew the condition of the estate money, and I had twice
advised him not to come until times got better.
ie told me he had over
$2,000 loaned out in Vernon, and that fter July he would have money.
Yours truly, etc.,
. PHJLI A. TuAcY.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

letter written by Tracy to Mrs. Turner five months afterwards
manifests his kindly interest in the welfare of the family and
renders greater the certitude that no thought was in Tracy's
mind that the parties deemed that he had perpetrated a fraud
upon them or that they had any claim upon him otherwise than
in respect of the Maryland-avenue lots investment. And this
is entirely corroborated by the intimate and friendly letters
written by Erle Turner to Tracy up to a short period before
his death, which shows clearly that Erle Turner considered
that Tracy was accountable only for the lots referred to, and
that he, Erle Turner, had received more than his share of the
same. One of such letters-omitting purely irrelevant matter
-is copied in the margin.'
Evidently, in consequence of the legal advice given him at
the time objection was made by Erle Turner and his mother
to the payment of 'the proceeds of the Maryland avenue lots
to the husband and father, Tracy, as his health became impaired, grew to have an anxiety concerning the technical
legality of the transfer of property which he had made to
Thomas M. Turner, as shown by the receipt of November 30,
1888; and as a consequence he had prepared the statement on
that subject produced by his executors. From 1895 until the
death of Tracy in June, 1898, the record does not contain even
the slightest proof tending to show any demand made upon
Tracy or a suggestion of liability concerning the fraud and
wrong charged in the bill in this case. That bill, as we have
seen, was only filed in1899, after the death of Tracy.
In March, 1901, Thomas M. Turner, as shown by his testi1 Phila., April 4th.

Dear Mr. Tracy: Yours rec'd. I wrote you a hurried note to tell you
that I w'd send the rJeccipt 7 A. ai.to-morrow per instructions. I have not
been well. . . . A friend of miie told me that as you had paid me
mo,'e than I of the balance left in your hands this should clear you, as the
balance would go to the other children, so I just made the suggestion.
Yours, & etc.,
E. H. TURNER.
P. S.-If you .write or wire me hurriedly address for 2 weeks 1820 Susquehanna Ave. I an going to change my room soon but will let you know.
E. H. T.

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mony, sold the Texas farm. The following is a statement made
by Turner of the amount claimed to have been realized and the
disposition made by him of such proceeds:
"I sold the place, and the consideration was $5,000. There
was a deed of trust for $400 on the property, which the purchaser assumed. I owed the purchaser $205. That from the
$5,000 left $4,395. I paid $200 in debts from that, which left
$4,195. I owed my wife her home in Louisiana that I sold in
1893, I believe $1,000, and eight years' interest at 10 per cent,
which is the legal rate in Texas. That made $1,800. I used
of my wife's individual money, about the year 1870, $200.
Interest on that to the present time would make 'altogether
$680. That would be $2,480 that I paid my Wife, that was
due her. That left $1,715. I owe about $100 in small debts
there that I will have to pay out of that, which would leave
$1,615 now that is community property between myself and
my wife. According to the laws of Texas she would be entitled to half of it and I half. I have that much in money."
Explaining why he appropriated for his own and his wife's
benefit the proceeds of the sale, to pay his alleged debt, despite
the conveyance of the farm previously made by himself and
wife to the minor children, Turner declared that while it was
the same farm yet that it had become forfeited to the State
and he had reacquired it and regarded it as community property belonging to himself and his wife, although the money
which had been originally used in buying and improving the
farm had come from the proceeds of the estate of his brother
and belonged to. the children.
With these facts in mind we come more directly 'to consider
the fraud alleged to have been committed by Tracy at the time
he made the transfer of property and took the -receipt of
Thomas M. Turner. The principal ground upon which the
auditor and both courts below rested their conclusion that
Tracy had been guilty of such fraud was a discrepancy which
it was assumed existed between a so-called list in Tracy's
handwriting of notes in his hands,- which list had been found

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

among the effects of Silas H. Turner at his death, and the correctness of which it was concluded was acknowledged by Tracy
to Thomas M. Turner after the death of Silas H. Turner. In
approaching the question of fraud we bear in mind the rule
that where both courts below have found a particular state of
facts, we do not disregard theni except upon the conviction
that the lower courts clearly erred in their conception of the
weight of the evidence. Now, coming to consider the evidence
in the light of this rule, we are constrained to the conclusion
that the premise upon which the courts below acted, that is,
the existence of a list of notes left by Tracy, is without any
support in the evidence, and, indeed, rests but upon a mere
mistaken assumption.
True it is that an envelope was found among the papers of
Silas H. Turner with an indorsement upon it in the handwriting of Tracy, reading as follows: "Notes belonging to
S. H. Turner, 1888." True also is it that two sheets of paper
were produced with memoranda of notes upon each in the
handwriting of Tracy. But to assume that these two sheets
were one list made by Tracy and possessed as one list by
Turner at the time of his death is to disregard the uncontroverted fact that the two separate sheets did not in and of themselves, as they existed at the death of Silas H. Turner, necessarily import that they constituted a single document. To
treat them as such a document would oblige us to disregard
the uncontradicted testimony of Thomas M. Turner that he
brought the two papers together so as to cause them to appear
to be one after the death of Tracy, that he placed on the first
sheet the pencil footing and the line above the same and on
the second the carrying forward of the same footing as also
the new footing and the line above the same, by which alone
on the face of the sheets apparent unity was produced between
them. We copy in the margin the two sheets, with the
Nov. 18, '82.
Nov.- 1, '79.

I S. H. Turner.
(W . Z. Partello) paid .......................
Sus'iaWV. MeNainee ........................

$0,000 00
1,700 00

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

additions which, as above stated, were made after the death
of Silas H. Turner.
So far as the face of these sepArate sheets as they stood at
the death of Silas H. Turner indicate, they do not at all exclude the implication that the items on the second sheet were
but the statement of reinvestinents made by Tracy of money
coming into his hands as the result of the payment to him of
notes which Wvcre enumerated on the first sheet. Nor on the
face of the papers does the fact that an envelope wasproduced
with the words in the handwriting of Tracy written thereon
"Notes belonging to S. t. Turner, 1888," necessarily give rise
to a contrary deduction. For, nQn constat but that this envelope was marked by Tracy on delivering to Silas H. Turner
the second sheet, or, that when it was marked, it contained
Jan.
April
March
March
July
June
April
Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
Dec.
May
Dec.
Oct.
Oct.
June
April
Aug.

19,
7,
22,
22,
12,
6,
3,
15,
15,
8,
30,
19,
24,
30,
2,
1,
18,
20,

'81.
'75.
'84.
'84.
'81.
'85.
'85.
'85.
'85.
'86.
'85.
'86.
'85.
'86.
'86.
'86.
87.
'85.

Edwin F. Jones .............................
J. H . Hollidge .............................
John B. Taylor ............................
John B. Taylor..... ......................
Flora. V. Andrews (2) .......................
Jennie J. W est ........
! ....................
Caroline Isdell (2) ...........................
Eliz. V. Lee ..............................
Eliz. V Lee ...............................
Mary J. Lewis (3) ............
.............
John L. Carusi .................
: ............
Julius Rehwold (4) ........
.................

1,000
800
1,000
1,000
1,000
3,400
1,T35
600
600
1,200
1,350
2,200

00
00
00
00
00
00
20
00
00
00
00
00

Rufus A. Morrison ..........................

1,500 00

John B. Avery (4) ..........................
Thomas R. Benton (15) ....................
G. 11. La Fetra .............................
L. A. Grant ...............................
D. B. Groff ................................

800
1,800
1,036
300
1,500

00
00
90
00 .
00

(Footing in lead pencil) .....................

24,122 10

1888.
Feb. 18.
Jan. 27.

Second sheet.
An't for'd (in lead pencil) ............
C. W. Baldwin ......
........................
A. H. Nixon (3)...................
..............

24,122 10
2,500 00
1,350 00-

Mar. 12.

D. B. Groff ....................................

1,000 00
28,972 10

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the first sheet exhibiting the property in the hands of Tracy
at the beginning of the year 1888. When the course of business between the parties as stated by Tracy in the memorandum addressed to his executors is recalled, the greater probability is not only that the two sheets were not received by
Silas H. Turner at one time, bu't that the second sheet was a
mere memorandum of investments of items stated on the first
sheet. The mode of dealing as stated by Tracy was this: He
kept the notes belonging to Turner in an envelope. Periodically he would send a general statement to Turner, and when
sufficient money was in his (Tracy's) hands arising from accumulations of interest or paymentof a note, he would reinvest and send or give Turner a memorandum of the new investment. Now the condition of the first sheet justifies the
presumption that it related to a general statement of the investments in the hands of Tracy at the end of the year 1887.
The notes on this sheet, although grouped in disregard of
chronological order, include notes dated from 1875 to and
including 1887. On the other hand, the second sheet is but
an enumeration of three notes executed in 1888, the last dated
on March 12. -This second sheet in no way corresponded,
therefore, to a general statement between the parties, but is
exactly responsive to the conception of a memorandum of
reinvestments made in accordance with the custom described
by Tracy. And by comparison of some of the items on the
separate sheets cogency is added to the reasonable presumption
that the second and separate sheet was but a statement of
reinvestments made after January 1, 1888. Thus, on the first
sheet is the following item: "Dec. 30, '85. John L. Carusi,
1350." Now if this note matured on December 30, 1887, and,
was paid shortly after its maturity, Tracy early in January,
1888, would have had that amount for reinvestment. Looking at the second sheet we find upon it an item showing an
investment of precisely the amount of the principal of the
Carusi note, as follows: "Jan. 27, 1888. A. H. Nixon (3)
1350.00."

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As Turner and Tracy met in Washington oin April 30, 1888,
and in view of the reasonable probability that Turner must
have been in possession of prior general statements of the investments made by Tracy, the inference is persuasive that the
memoranda embraced on the second sheet may have been delivered by Tracy to Turner at that time.
It is insisted that as Thomas M. Turner testified that he
exhibited th6 two sheets as one paper to Tracy, and that
Tracy told him that he had all of the notes described on both
of the sheets in his possession and that they were "as good
as gold," therefore the sheets were proven to be one and tile
liability of the estate of Tracy to account on that hypothesis
was established. But in view of the state of the uncontroverted proof which we have previously noticed concerning
Turner and his acts of omission and commission, we are constrained to the conclusion that he has so discredited himself
as to make it impossible for us to accept his uncorroborated
statements as establishing the alleged fraud and dishonesty
of Tracy; although in reaching this conclusion we do not exclude the possibility that Turner may have harbored a suspicion that Tracy had not fully accounted, and communicated
his suspicions to others. And even putting out of view
the acts of commission and omission of Turner and the consequent inability to rely upon his testimony as to the commission by Tracy of the alleged fraud, the unexplained failure of the complainants to make certain proof, and the
proof as made, clearly demonstrate that Tracy could not
have been guilty of the fraud charged against him, and
we under separate headings state our reasons for this conclusion.
1. The interview between Tracy and Turner, at which the
alleged admission by Tracy was made concerning the list and
his possession of all the notes shown on the two sheets, was
the one had a week after the death of Silas H. Turner, at which
Thomas M. Turner testifies that TyIr. Hunton, his counsel, was
present and heard the alleged statement made by Tracy. Yet

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the testimony of Mr. Hunton was not taken. Besides, the bill
contained an express averment that the land records of the
District of Columbia established that the notes embraced on
the first sheet which were omitted from the receipt signed by
Turner had been paid after the death of Silas H. Turner, but
no proof on that subject was offered. On the contrary, it was
stipulated on the taking of evidence that five of the notes which
were on the first sheet had been paid and the releases of trust
executed after March 12, 1888, the date of the oldest executed
note shown on the second sheet of the list, and before the death
of Silas H. Turner, a fact which clearly rebuts the presumption
that Tracy could have admitted to Turner on September 28,
1888, that he possessed notes which were good as gold, although
they were not then in existence.
2. The face of the receipt itself (which is copied in the
margin),' considered in the light of the uncontroverted facts

1

Full List of Notes and Cash in the Hands of Philip A.. Tracy,
Belonging to S. H. Turner, Deceased, Nov. 30, '88.
Date of Notes.

Mar. 22, '84. Two
notes of
May 19, '86. Two
s it
" Two
11
it
April 18, '87. One
Mar. 12, '86. One
44
1(
I
"(I
One
it
it
Dec. 15, '85. Two
,I
It
June 13, '88. One
Jan'y. 19, '81.."
it
it
Feb. 18, '88.
Jan'y. 27,. " Three
July 12, '81. Two
Oct. 30, '86. Three
"
22, " Seventeen
Aug. 25, '88. One
it
It
Oct. 17, " Three
Nov. 6, " One
it
(I
Nov. 19, " Two

John B. Taylor for $i,000 each

2,000

Julius Rehwold, $300 each..
"I
"t
$800 .......
Louisa A. Grant ............
Diller B. Groff .............

600
1,600
300
1,500

' ......... •.....
1,000
. 1,200
Eliza U. Lee, $600 each .....
325
Roth & Moore .............
Edwin F. Jones ........
*.... 1,000
Charles W. Baldwin ......... 2,500
1,350
Alban H. Nixon, $450 each..
1,000
Flora V. Andrews, $500 each.
600
John B. Avey, $200 each....
2,040
Thos. H. Benton, $120 each..
3,000
Frank W. Paige ............
1,387.50
J. L. Burns, $462.50 each ....
E. V. Jarvis ............... . 200
1,200
C. S. McEwen (600 each) ....

" lots on Md. Ave. N. E .....

...........

1,800

225 -

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

which we have stated, and other circumstances to which we
shall advert, we think equally rebut the statements of Turner
as to the alleged admissions of Tracy. It will be observed that
the aggregate of both sheets of the so-called list was $28,972.10.
The notes embraced upon the receipt given by Turner aggregated $22,802.50, a difference between the two footings of
$6,169.60. Now, admitting that the two items of cash payments figuring in the receipt, amounting to $776.89, may be
treated as interest, besides the notes, the receipt of Turner
specified an investment of eighteen hundred dollars in the
Maryland avenue lots, for which at the time Tracy delivered
to Turner the certificate to which we have referred in stating
the uncontroverted facts, and which Turner turned over to
his son Erle. Deducting this eighteen hundred dollars, which
Tracy admitted he owed, left only a difference of $4,369.60.
How, under this condition of things, it could be found that
Tracy admitted he was appropriating for his own benefit morethan six thousand dollars we cannot conceive, since on the face
of the transaction, under the most favorable view of the testimony for the complainants, Tracy was paying over or acknowledging his liability for everything but about four thousand dollars of notes. And yet more incredible does the theory
of a fraudulent retention of over six thousand dollars by Tracy
become when it is considered that Tracy permitted Turner to
retain what would have been conclusive evidence of his fraud
if the theory of the previous admissions of Tracy as to one
list and its correctness,, propounded by the complainants and
found by the courts below, were true. If Tracy was infamous
Sept. 28,
Nov. 30,

439.25
337.64
600

Cash, T. M. T .................................
,i
"
in full ..........................
(In'st now due) .............................

$25,379.39
Nov. 30, '88.-Receivdd the above-described notes and cash in full under
the will of S. H. Turner, deceased.

T. M.

TURNm.

Natural Tutor and Agent /or My Minor Children.

vOL. ccii-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

enough to conceive the spoliation which is charged to have
been committed by him, it would be certainly fair enough to
presume that he would have exercised reasonable precautions
to destroy the evidence of his wrongdoing.
Moreover, a comparison of the receipt with the two sheets
supports the conviction that the second sheet was but a statement of: reinvestments, and therefore that it was impossible
that Tracy should have admitted that he was in fact stealing
from or denying his liability to the estate of his dead friend in
respect to the sum which he was either actually paying over
or admitting his responsibility for. Now, the receipt embraced all of the notes mentioned on the second sheet, aggregating $4,850. It embraced certain notes found on the first
sheet, aggregating $11,600. The receipt also embraced notes
not appearing on the first sheet-in other words, replacing
those omitted (and included the Maryland avenue lots)indicating by their dates that they were acquired after the
date of the last investment appearing on the second sheet of
the list, viz., March 12, 1888, and after April 30, 1888, when
Silas Turner was in the office of Tracy and made his will.
These last items aggregated $8,152.50. The total of the
various items footed up $24,602.50. Now, this sum was
slightly in excess of the notes shown on the first of the two
sheets of the so-called list, going to demonstrate that the settlement between the parties was based, not upon any deduction
of an impossible sum of six thousand dollars, but upon the
fact that the second sheet represented reinvestments of items
appearing on the first sheet. And the cogency of this conclusion becomes manifest when it is considered that there is
not an iota of evidence tending to show where Tracy could
have gotten the money to invest in the notes which he turned
over, acquired after March 12, 1888, unless it was from collections of the notes appearing on the first sheet of the so-called
list, which, in consequence of their payment, were represented
in the receipt by the new investments.
3. That at the time the receipt was given there was some

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conversation on the subject of a probable charge by Tracy for
his services rendered to Silas H. Turner, we think persuasively
appears. In May, 1892, after the refusal of Turner to qualify
as administrator of the estate and the refusal of Tracy to turn
over the proceeds of the Maryland avenue lots to Turner unless
he did qualify, Tracy wrote Turner aletter which is copied
in the margin.'
It is true that Turner, in producing the letter, whilst acknowledging its receipt, declared that it*was the first he had
ever heard of any such charge or intention to charge; but
Turner in no way intimates that he took issue with Tracy,
by letter or otherwise, concerning the right of Tracy to make
the charge, a line of conduct wholly inexplicable if the theory
of a fraudulent retention by Tracy of six thousand dollars had
foundation in fact. Having regard to the context of Tracy's
letter we consider it as implying an intention to deduct for
the benefit of the sister of Silas H. Turner the sum of the charge
which Tracy. had made or then proposed to make from the
proceeds of the investment remaining in his hands. And we
1 Post Office Department, Office of the First Assistant Postmaster General.
Washington, May 7, '92.
Dear Turner: I wrote you some time ago, but have not received any reply
to my letter. I was in Phila, a short time ago, and called to see Erle, but
was told he had left there, and gone to Balto. The interest on the $2,600,
in my hands has not yet been paid through I expect it soon. It is invested
in good paper and is drawing 8% per cent though after the present notes
are paid I do not think I can get over 6% for it.
As I am now all alone in the world and have not much use for much
money I have thought something of transferring to Miss Henrietta a part
or perhaps all of the commission I charged on your brother's estate (5%)
as she was left out of the will, and is poor as I understand it, and getting
along in years.
If you will confer with her upon the subject, and ask her to write to me,
I think the arrangement can be arranged.
This amount of my charge for attending to the business for 16 years
($120 a year) will stand.
I would like to hear how your wheat turned out? How much did you.
make and how much did you get for it.
Yours, truly, &c.,
PHILIP A. TRA&c.
P. S.-I have not been well since the death of my sister.-T.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

may remark in passing that there is proof tending to show that
Tracy subsequently made remittances to the sister in question.
4. As we have said in stating the uncontroverted facts,
Turner came from Louisiana to the house of Mrs. Rust, where
his brother Silas was lying dangerously ill, about a month and
a half before the death of Silas. The proof leaves no doubt
that whilst there he frequently met his niece, Mrs. Rust, and
other Virginia relatives, and had ample occasion to be aware
of their frame of mind. There is no proof whatever showing
that Tracy, whose home was in Washington, had any connection whatever with the Virginia relatives of Silas Turner, or
was in a position to form an opinion concerning the probable
conduct of those relatives as to a contest of the will of Silas
Turner. And yet Turner swears that one of the principal
causes of his yielding to the fraud of Tracy was the danger
which Tracy persuaded Turner would arise in consequence of
the purpose of the Virginia relatives to contest the will. Further, although the first interview between Tracy and Turner
after the death of Silas was on September 28, 1888, the settlement between Turner and Tracy was not had until more than
two months thereafter, viz., November 30, 1888. Now the
only explanation Turner gives for this delay is that Tracy told
him at the interview on September 28, 1888, that he was about
to absent himself on a two weeks' leave and upon his return
would inform Turner and they would have a settlement, a
reason wholly inadequate to explain the long delay between
that and the next meeting; That Tracy expected to. make a
settlement and desired to keep in touch with Turner is -shown
by a letter written to Turner on October 10, 1888, from Old
Point Comfort, advising Turner of his (Tracy's) whereabouts.
Several of the Virginia relatives who were in contact with
Turner during the considerable interval which elapsed between
the first visit of Turner to Tracy and the final settlement testified to statements made in their presence by Turner, that he
was awaiting the nhcessary papers from Louisiana showing his
authority to represent his children, and that just before Turner

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

went 'to Washington to make the settlement with Tracy, Turner stated to them that he had the required authority. This
shows that the matter of Turner's right to represent his children was, in all probability, the cause of the long delay in
making the settlement, and is corroborated by a passage contained in a letter written by Turner to his daughter Wilmer in
1899, in which communication, referring to the occurrences at
the final settlement with Tracy, Turner said:
"Tracy then informed me that as my brother owed no debts
there was no use to have an administration; that he would
not qualify as executor of the will, and that I need not delay
to be appointed guardian for my children; that he would turn
the notes over to me and I could place them in bank to be
collected as they matured."
True it is that Turner testified that the words which he
affixed to his name in signing the receipt describing his representative capacity, viz., "Natural tutor and agent for my
minor children," were dictated by Tracy, but in view of the
probable ignorance of Tracy of the Louisiana law and the
experience and familiarity which Turner possessed on that
subject, the statement cannot be accepted as true.
Considering all the evidence, our conclusion is that the proof
not only completely fails to establish the commission of fraud
or wrong by Tracy, but that on the contrary it clearly shows
honesty and fair dealing on his part. Indeed, so far as concerns the transfer of property made to Thomas M. Turner
without provoking an administration either in Virginia or in
the District of Columbia,. whatever may be its legal consequence, which we shall hereafter consider, we think the clear
preponderance of the proof gives rise to the inference that that
payment was made without administration because of Tracy's'
knowledge that there were no debts and because of the representations made by Turner that he was entitled under the law of
Louisiana to receive the transfer on behalf of his minor children, and that if it were not made to him without legal proceedings there would be much unnecessary expense resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

from a contest, and thus the purpose of the testator towards
the beneficiaries of his will would be in part frustrated..
This brings us to consider the proposition of law whether
the payment by Tracy to Thomas M. Turner, as the representative of his children, was adequate to prevent the estate of
Tracy from being compelled to pay a second time.
It is undoubted that at the time of Silas H. Turner's death
the children who were, the beneficiaries under his will were
minors and were domiciled with their father and mother, who
were both alive and residing in the State of Louisiana. It is
at once conceded that under the law of Louisiana a father or
mother entitled to qualify as natural tutor (guardian) must
be recognized by a court, and as a condition precedent to such
recognition must have complied with the requirements.of the
law. Under the law of Louisiana such precedent requirements are the taking of the inventory, the recording of an
abstract thereof and an oath of office. As it is established that
Thomas M. Turner performed none of these requirements and
was never recognized by a court as the natural tutor of his
children, it is insisted that he was wholly without power to
represent them or to receive the bequests made to them by the
will of Silas H. Turner. But the proposition is inapposite and
is based upon a misconception of the law' of Louisiana resulting
from the assumption that under that law the rules governing
the qualification and appointment of natural tutors after the
death of one of the spouses applies to the case of a father during
marriage representing and acting for and on behalf of his
minor children.
In the Civil Code of Louisiana of 1870, title 7, chapter 5,
treating of father and child, it is provided as follows:
"ART. 221. The father is, during the marriage, administrator of the estate of his minor children.
"He is accountable. both for the property and revenues of
the estates, the use of which he is not entitled to by law, and
for the property only of the estates, the usufruct of which the
law gives him.

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"This administration ceases at the time of the majority
or emancipation of the children."
And in the same title and chapter it is further provided:
"ART. 223. Fathers and mothers shall have, during marriage, the enjoyment of the estate of their children until their
majority or emancipation."
Moreover, in the same chapter, it is also provided:
"AnT. 226. This usufruct shall not extend to any estate,
which the children may acquire by their own labor and industry, nor to such estate as is givn or left them under the
express condition that the father and mother shall not enjoy
such usufruct."
Thes? provisions of the Code of 1870 have obtained in that
State from an early date. The first of them was in the Code
of 1825 as article 267, under the title treating of minors and
their tutorship, and under -the same title the provision was
contained in the Code of 1808 in section 2 of Title 8, article 5.
And as the inevitable result of these provisions of the code
it has long been settled in Louisiana that the plenary power
of the father as administrator, during marriage, of the estate
of his minor children, born of the marriage, was wholly distinct from tutorship, did not depend upon previous judicial
recognition, and was not subjected to the precedent requirements essential to give rise to tutorship. In Cleveland, Tutrix,
v. Sprowl, Administrator (1845), 12 Rob. 172, the court said
(p. 173):
"Now, it is well known, that no tutorship exists, during
the marriage, over the children issued from it, but that a child
remains under the authority of his father and mother until -his
majority or emancipation. Civ. Code, Art. 234. "The father
is, during the marriage, administrator of the estate of his
minor children; he is accountable both for the property and
revenues of the estates, the use of which he is not entitled:
to by law, and for the property only of the estates, the usufruct of vhich the law gives him; and such administration
ceases at the time of the majority or emancipation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

children. Art. 267. The natural tutorship only takes place
after the dissolution of the marriage, by the death of either of
the spouses, and belongs of right to the surviving one. Art.
268. Thus it is clear, that the legal mortgage resulting from
the tutorship, is not applicable to the administration of the
minor's property, given by law to the father, during the marriage. He is not a tutor; his duties and responsibilities are
very different; and the law does not appear to have intended,
that while the minor's estate remains under his father's administration during the marriage, his child should have a
legal mortgage upon his father's property, as a security for the
said administration."
As a result, it was expressly decided that neither the legal
mortgage resulting from tutorship nor the security generally
required by law from usufructuaries were applicable to a
father -as administrator of the estates of his minor children
during the marriage. Our attention has not been called to nor
have we been able to find any decision of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana modifying in the slightest degree the principles
thus announced. On the contrary, in Gates v. Renlroe (1852),
7 La. Ann. 569, whilst the subject was notdirectly at issue,
the court in its opinion assumed the "law of Louisiana concerning the power of the father in administering the estates
of his minor children, as previously stated, to be elementary.
It is certain that the article relating to the power of the
father to administer during marriage, which was originally
enacted in the Code of 1808, was drawn from the Code Napoleon.
We say this is certain, because not only did the article as
enacted in the Codes of 1808 and 1825 exist in the Code Napoleon in absolutely identical words, but it was also in that
code placed, as it was in the two earlier Louisiana codes, under
the heading of minors and their tutorship. Code Napoleon,
Art. 389.
The fact that the provision should more properly have been
classed under the chapter of the code treating of paternal

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authority has been recognized in France. In commenting,
upon this subject Demolombe says (vol. 6, No. 409):
"It is evident that this article appropriately belongs to the
title treating of paternal power, because during the marriage
tutorship does not exist. It is alone in virtue of the paternal
power that the father (or the mother in the case of the father's
incapacity) is charged with the administration of the goods
belonging to his minor children."
The same commentator thus expounds the spirit of the
article (Ib. No. 415):
"During the marriage the father and the mother are present
and codperating with each other, consulting with each other,
supervising as it were each other With that instinctive tenderness which is the result of their relation to their. offspring.
This the law assumes to be an assured and certain security
for the children founded at the same time upon both paternal
and conjugal affection, of which the children are the pledge,
and of which they are the most potent links for the perpetuation of the union.

.

.

.

Let us add that the conflicts be-

tween interests of the children and those of the parent which
often arise from the death of one of the parents do not usually
exist whilst both the parents are alive. These are the family
considerations upon which the article is founded, and tradition plainly confirms them. Thus in our ancient jurisprudence
the distinction between the legal administration of a father and
tutorship was well established. The first rested upon an
agency created by law alone, based upon the confidence which
the law reposed in paternal affection, from which it resulted
that the powers of administration given to the father were
broader and more comprehensive than those which the law
conferred upon a tutor. (Comp. Merlin, Rep. VII, V0 L~gitime
Administration; Coquille, sur l'art 2, de la Coutume de Nivernais, de Lauri~re sur Loisel Inst. Cout. livre 1, titre IV, r~gle 1.)"
And when the genesis of the enactment which passed from
the Napoleon Code into the codes of Louisiana is considered
the accuracy of the observations of the commentator just cited

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

is made clear. In the draft of the Napoleon Code which was
first submitted the provision- subsequently contained in arti-'
cle 389 of that .code was not found. The enactment of the
article into the code was, the result of a recommendation by
the Tribunat, its report on, the subject expressly saying (Locr6.
Legislat. Civ. t. VII, p. 215):
"We think that the first article of the chapter should express in precise terms what during the marriage should be the
authority of the father over the personal goods-of his minor
children.

.

.

.

Never up to this time has it been exacted

that a father should be obliged to qualify as the tutor of his
children before the dissolution of the marriage. If while the
marriage exist the law did not make a distinction between the
father and mother and a tutor in the proper sense of the word,
it would follow that the father Would be as to the personal
goods of his minor children subjected during marriage to all
tne conditions and burdens which the law imposes upon a
tutor. The father would then be as to his minor children under
the supervision of an under tutor, would depend upon the
advice of a family meeting, etc., etc., all of which would be
repugnant to the accepted conceptions. of paternal authority.
It seems fitting that up to the dissolution of marriage the only
title which the father should have is that of administrator, and
it is for this reason that we recommend the adoption of the
article."
And the views which were thus expounded have been substantially applied by the decided dises in France, and are
concurred in by the practically unanimous opinion of the
theoretical writers. The result of those decisions and the
opinions of the writers on the subject adequately portray the
plenary power conferred upon the father as the administrator
of all the property of his minor children during marriage and
the distinction' between that authority and the narrower power
as' to the natural tutorship arising only.aftr the dissolution of
the marriage. The authorities will be found exhaustively
collected in the notes to article 389 of the Napoleon Code in

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Fuzier-Herman edition of that code, published at Paris
in 1885.
Much reliance in argument is placed upon the terms of article 3350 of the Louisiana Code of 1870, which reads as follows:
"ART. 3350. Before fathers and mothers, who by law are
entitled to the usufruct of property belonging to their minor
children, shall be allowed to take possession of such property
and enjoy the fruits and revenues thereof, they shall cause an
inventory and appraisement to be made of such property, and
cause the same to be recorded in the mortgage book of every
parish in the State where they or either of them have immovable property."
This article was not contained in any of the previous codes.
Its origin is this: Prior to the Louisiana Constitution of 1868
the moneyed obligations of natural. tutors towards their minor
children, of husbands to their wives, and some other pecuniary
obligations expressly provided for by law, were secured by
what was known to the Louisiana law as legal and tacit mortgages. Those mortgages existed by operation of law and
without registry. No such provision, however, ever obtained,
as we have seen, concerning a father administering upon the
estate of his minor children during the marriage. The Louisiana constitution of 1868 (art. 123), provided that all legal,
tacit mortgages should cease after a specified date, and expressly imposed upon the legislature the duty of providing by
law for a mode of registry in order to preserve existing and
future mortgages of that character. By an act passed in
1869, entitled an act to carry out this article of the constitution and "to provide for recording all mortgages and privileges," the legislature sought to comply with this constitutional direction. Acts La. 1869, p. 114. The act in question
contained specific directions for recording mortgages of the
character referred to, the mode of registry which was adopted
as to these mortgages being the making of an abstract of an
inventory showing the amount of the minor's property, and
the putting of the same of record. Section 12, the last section

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

of the act, contained the exact provision subsequently embodied when the Code of 1870 was adopted, in article 3350,
except that section 12 of the act of 1869, moreover, had these
words, which are not found in the article of the code referred
to: "Which recordation shall operate a mortgage on such
property until a final settlement of the administration of said
property." In other words, when the Code of 1870 came to be
adopted the compilers omitted the words of section 12 of the
act of 1869 just quoted, but placed in the code the remainder
of the section providing for the registry of an abstract of the
inventory in the case stated. It is difficult to determine, exactly the reason which impelled the compilers of the Code of
1870 to omit the provision as to mortgages found in section 12
of the act of 1869, conceding that that provision was constitutional despite the title of the act, and to reenact the
remainder of the section providing for the registering of an abstract of an inventory in the case named, since by the omission
of the provision as to mortgage no possible security could
arise from the recording of an abstract of an inventory in the
case provided for. For, certain it is that neither under the
codes as they existed prior to 1870, nor in that code, was or is
there any provision for a legal mortgage securing the minors
against loss, resulting from the enjoyment by either parent
during marriage of a usufruct. The intention of the compilers
of the Code of 1870 not to. change the powers of administration
of the property of his minor children, conferred upon the father
by the prior codes, is expressly shown by the re~naftment
without change of those provisions, and is cogently exemplified by the further fact that in reenacting the provisions in
question they were removed from the chapters of the code
referring to tutorship and were transferred to the chapters of
the code relating to paternal authority. As the full significance to be given to article 3350 is a question of local Louisiana
law, which we are not called to decide, except so far as is
essential to the determination of the case before us, we content ourselves with saying that we think it is clear that that

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

article in no way modifies or controls the full power of the
father to administer during marriage the estates of his minor
children, so well settled under the Louisiana law., In any
event, We think that article 3350 simply implies that unless
an inventory is made and an abstract recorded the usufruct
which otherwise would exist shall not obtain. But giving this
effect to the article in no way.modifies the powers of administration conferred upon the father during marriage to which
we have referred, because, as clearly pointed out by the authorities which we have previously cited, the administration
is wholly. independent of the usufruct and applies to the minor's
property during marriage, whether or not there be a right of
usufruct.
As then by the law of their domicil the minors were represented by their father as administrator, with full power under
that law to receipt for and administer the property for their
account, was the transfer of property made by Tracy in the
District of Columbia to Thomas M. Turner, as the administrator or representative of his-minor children, valid and binding? It is said that it was not because Turner, the testator,
was domiciled in Virginia, and if the property had been administered upon in that jurisdiction, never mind what was the
power of the father, under the law of Louisiana he would not
have been entitled to receive or remove the property from the
jurisdiction without an order made by a Virigina court and
upon the giving of satisfactory security. But the property in
question was in the District .of Columbia, and in the absence
of all showing that there were creditors in Virginia, the Probate
Court of the District of Columbia would have had power under
the circumstances disclosed, if administration had been had
in the District, to direct the delivery of the property to the
person lawfully entitled to represent the minors, without compelling the transmission of the funds to Virginia. Under these
circumstances, we are of opinion that the payment in the
District of Columbia to the father of the complainants as administrator of their estate, fully empowered to collect and

,:238

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
-Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

receive the same by the law of their domicil, is controlled by
the cases of Wilkins v. Ellett, 108 U. S. 256; S. C., 9 Wall. 740.
It is, however, urged that although as a general principle the
cases referred to are decisive of this, the terms of the will and
the knowledge which Tracy had of the intentions of the testator, made the delivery by Tracy to the father of the children
a violation of the terms of the will and operated a fraud upon
the rights of the children, which, it is claimed, takes this case
out of the general rule. The unsoundness of the first of these
contentions, which rests upon the terms of the will, we think
,is demonstrated by its mere statement. The proposition is
that the words of the will "and appoint Philip A. Tracy to
distribute the proceeds of said property equally between them"
(the minor children of Thomas M. Turner) implied a direction
to Tracy to hold and administer the property for the benefit
of the children, and not to pay it over to a lawfully appointed
administrator or to one legally authorized to receive it. The
second contention rests upon the assumption that as a matter
of fact the proof establishes that Tracy had knowledge that
the purpose of Silas H. Turner in making his will was to exclude the administration by Thomas M. Turner of the property
bequeathed to his children, because Thomas M. Turner was a
spendthirift and the testator lacked confidence in him. And
this assumption of fact, as we have seen, was adopted by the
trial court. Conceding for the sake of argument only that
the existence of such knowledge on the part of Tracy would
have caused it to be a fraud for him to turn over the property
to the lawful administrator of .the minors, we can find no reliable proof whatever in the record justifying the premise of
fact upon which .the contention is based. The sole .and only
possible basis for such an assufmption is a statement made by
Erle H. Turner in the course of his examination-in-chief,
where, in purporting to give his recollection of a conversation
had with Tracy, he said:
"Tracy himself wrote the will; and he said that he had
suggested to uncle to. leave it to my father, and if I remember,

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the 'Court.

his answer was no, he would spend it, or something like that;
and then he suggested that he leave it to his children, and that
idea suited uncle, and he wrote the will."
We shall not stop to point out the conflict between this
statement made by Erle Turner and the intimate and friendly
relations as exhibited by his correspondence, cQntinuing almost
up to the time of the death of Tracy, or the conflict between the
statements and the various parts of his testimony and his
letters. We do not pause to do these things, because in our
opinion the proof introduced by both parties beyond question
establishes that Silas H. Turner entertained no such feeling
towards his brother as the quoted testimony of Erle Turner
implies. Thus the complainants' own proof showed that
Thomas M. Turner was summoned to the bedside of his dying
brdther and there remained for a month and a half; that during that time he was in constant and close relation with the
brother, without the slightest iitimation of any want of confidence between them. On the contrary, Thomas M. Turner
n ie repeated statements and declaration in the course of
his testimony, to the effect that his brother referred to the will,
and informed him that he expected him to administer the
property, etc. That Tracy regarded Thomas M. Turner as
honest is demonstrated by his whole course of conduct, and
is illustrated by his allusions to Thomas M. Turner in the
memorandum which he left for-the information of his executors.
The receipt being binding, the only question remaining for
consideration is whether any liability rests upon the estate of
Tracy growing out of the investment in real estate referred to
therein. From an inspection of the receipt it will be seen that
that subject was thus described: Lots on Maryland avenue
N. E. $1,800; and as we have also previously'stated at the
time of the giving of the receipt Tracy delivered to Thomas
M. Turner a certificate, which we have heretofore reproduced;
and which, as we have said, Turner subsequently turned over
to his son Erle.

OCTOBER TERM; 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

The evidence shows that the investment in question was
represented by shares of stock of the Mutual Investment Company, which had acquired square 937 in the city of Washington. On September 3, 1888, Tracy subscribed to twentyfive shares of the stock of the par value of $150 per share,
making a total liability of $3,750. He had paid assessments
aggregating only $85 per share, when, on February 6, 1890,
the land, was sold at a profit of sixty dollars on each share of
stock. It may, of course, be presumed that during the interval between the subscription to the stock and the winding
,up of the venture Tracy retained possession of the balance,
upon which he was liable on the subscription over and above
the sums actually paid on assessment calls, so as to be ready
to respond to calls up to the par value of the stock. Twelve
of the subscribed shares would represent an investment of
$1,800, the exact amount stated in the receipt. The profit on
the twelve shares amounted to $720. This profit with the
principal of the investment aggregated, therefore, on February 6; 1890, $2,520. Tracy, however, received but a trifling
amount in cash, the greater part of the sum due him on the
settlement being paid in notes of the purchaser of square 937,
secured by trust deed. When the notes were paid, as shown
in a letter written by Tracy to T. M. Turner on May 7, 1892,
heretofore reproduced in the margin, the investment had realized $2,600. On account of the refusal of Tracy in the spring
of 1891 to pay over this sum to Thomas M. Turner, then living
in Texas, unless he qualified as administrator of the estate,
Tracy invested the amount in real estate notes, which were in
Tracy's possession on May 7, 1892. Thomas M. Turner testified that prior to the spring of 1891 Tracy told him that the
estate had realized from the investment in the Maryland
avenue lots the sum of $2,750, although he does not claim to
have taken issue with the statement in Tracy's letter that the
amount was.$2,600. The auditor, however, fixed the amount
at $3,069.65, and held the estate of Tracy liable to account
for that sum from February 6. 1890.

DARLINGTON v. TURNER.
202 U. S.

'

Opinion of the Court.

It appears from statements in the record that following the
panic of 1893 payments of interest on this loan. ceased and the
security became impaired, and, from passages in letters of
Tracy, it may be conjectured the loan was secured by a second
mortgage and a sale was had under the first mortgage, which
failed to realize more than sufficient to pay the primary incumbrance. It being, however, impossible from the record
to determine with precision the ultimate fate of the investment in question, and as the sum originally realized therefrom is fixed with sufficient accuracy and has not been accounted for, we think the estate of Tracy should be held liable
as. of February 6, 1890, for the sum of two thousand five hundred and twenty dollars with legal interest. From this
amount, however, there is to be deducted the one-fourth
proportion of Erle H. Turner, as the sums admitted to have
been paid to him by Tracy on account of this asset exceeded
his proportion of the principal and interest.

In other words,

therefore, the estate of Tracy will be held accountable to
complainants other than Erle H. Turner in equal proportions
for the sum of eighteen hundred and ninety dollars with legal
interest thereon from February 6, 1890.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause
is remanded with directions to reverse the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and to remand the
cause to that court with directions to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion. The costs in this court as well as
in both the courts below are to be paid by the complainants
and before distribution of the sum for which the estate of
Tracy is held accountable.
MR.

JUSTICE BROWN

decision of this case.

voL,. coi-16

took no part in the consideration and

