NAGANAB v. HITCHCOCK.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pure, wholesome water. And yet it is now held that it was
competent for the city of Vicksburg, by mere implication, to
so tie its hands that it cannot perform the duty which it owes
in that regard to its people.

NAGANAB v. HITCHCOCK.
APPEAL

FROM THE

COURT OF

APPEALS OF THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 247.

Argded April 25, 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.

A suit brought by a Chippewa Indian on behalf of himself and other members of his tribe against the Secretary of the Interior, to enjoin him from
executing the act of June 27, 1902, and to compel him to account under
the act of January 4, 1889, in regard to sale and disposition of lands,
the title to which is still in the Government, is in effect a suit against
the United States, and in the absence of any waiver on the part of the
Government of immunity from suit, the courts. have no jurisdiction
of such a suit. Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60 followed; Minnesota
v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373 distinguished.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Tracy L. Jeffords for appellant.
Mr. William C. Pollock, Assistant Attorney, with whom Mr.
Frank L. Campbell, Assistant Attorney General, was on the
brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this suit a bill was filed in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by Joseph Naganab against Ethan Allen
Hitchcock, Secretary of the Interior. Complainant brought
the suit as a citizen of the United States and a member of the
band and tribe of Chippewa Indians of the State of Minnesota,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

suing for himself and other members of the band and tribe.
The bill is quite voluminous, but in substance sets Out the alleged right of the Indians who had conveyed certain lands under the act of Congress of January 14, 1889, to the United States
to have them administered for their benefit. The bill averred
that under the act of Congress the Indians of the State of Minnesota had conveyed to the United States upwards of 3,555,771
acres of land, constituting certain reservations named, all of
which lands and reservations were held by the United States
under conveyances in trust for the benefit of the Indians;_ that
the Secretary of the Interior had caused the lands to be classified as required by the act, and that approximately 1,500,000
acres thereof were classified as pine lands, 1,855,000 acres as
agricultural lands-600,000 acres of the lands, classified under
the said act as pine lands, were situated in certain reservations,
to wit, Chippewas of the Mississippi, Leech Lake, Cass Lake
and Lake Winnibigoshish; that upon said last-mentioned area,
there was and is growing a large amount of merchantable pine
timber, reasonably worth $10,000,000. The value of the lands
classified as agricultural lands to be sold under said act for $1.25
per acre is $2,318,750. And it is averred that it is the right
of the Chippewa Indians to have certain of the lands sold, the
proceeds to draw five per cent interest for fifty years, and the
interest money to be used for the benefit of the Indians as provided in the act, and at the expiration of the fifty years the
balance of the principal sum remaining to be paid to the Indians.
The complaint is of the act of June 27, 1902, amendatory of
the act of January 14, 1889. It is averred that at the time of
the passage of the latter act there yet remained 600,000 acres
of pine lands, and 200,000 acres of agricultural lands, which
ought to be disposed of in pursuance of said trust in favor of the
Indians; that the pine lands are worth upwards of $10,000,000,
and the agricultural lands $1.25 per acre; that without the
consent of the Indians a portion of the pine lands were set off
as a forest reservation, the timber on this land being of the

NAGANAB v.. HITCHCOCK.
202 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

value of $3,000,000; that the rules and regulations prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior for the selling and removal
thereof would reduce the value of the pine timber to an amount
exceeding $1,000,000; that the Secretary is about to sell and
has advertised for sale the pine timber on 300,000 acres of said
lands; that said act of June 27, 1902, if carried out, will deprive the complainant and other Chippewa Indians of the State
of Minnesota of their property without compensation and without due process of law, in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. The bill prays that the defendant; the Secretary of the Interior, may be temporarily enjoined from any
further act or acts in execution of the act of Congress of June 27,
.1902; that he be required to execute the trust in favor of the
Indians, and account to the cbmplainant, as required by the
act of January 14, 1889, and for general relief.
The defendant demurred on three grounds, viz.: 1. That
there is a defect of parties complainant. 2. That the bill is
bad in substance, in that it does not set out any facts sufficient
to entitle the complainant or the real party in interest, the
Chippewa Indians of Minnesota, to the relief prayed for, or to
any relief. 3. That the court has no jurisdiction over the subject matter of the suit. The Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill. This
judgment was affirmed in the Court of Appeals.
It is apparent from the above statement of the allegations of
the bill that the defendant Hitchcock, Secretary of the Interior,
has no interest in this controversy and that it is in effect a suit
against the United States to control the disposition of the lands
and for an account of the proceeds of the sales of certain lands
conveyed by the Indians to the United States under the act of
January 14, 1889. Without considering whether the courts
would have power to control the action of the Secretary of the
Interior in this matter, or whether the power and authority so
to do is purely political and subject to the control of Congress
without judicial intervention, as was held in the Court of Appeals, we are of opinion that there is no jurisdiction to enter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

tain this case. In respect to this question it is on all fours
with State of Oregon v. Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Secretary of
the Interior, and William A. Richards, Commissioner of the
General Land Office, decided on April 23 of this term. 202 U. S.
60. That case was distinguished from Minnesota v. Hitchcock,
185 U. S. 373, relied on here by the appellant, in the
fact that in the Minnesota case, the jurisdiction to sue the
Secretary of the Interior was sustained because of the consent
on the part of the United States to be sued in respect to school
lands within an Indian reservation and an acceptance by the
Government of full responsibility for the result of the decision
so far as the Indians were concerned. Act of March 2, 1901,
31 Stat. 950. In this case, as in the Oregon case, the legal
title to all the tracts of land in question is still in the Government, and the United States, the real party in interest herein,
has not waived in any manner its immunity, or consented to be
sued concerning the lands in question, and there is no act of
Congress in anywise authorizing this action. Upon the authority of the Oregon case we hold that there is no jurisdiction to
maintain the present suit, and the action of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, affirming the decree of the
Supreme Court of the District dismissing the complainant's
bill, is
Affirmed.

