IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
202 U. S.

Stipulation.

hereby enjoined and restrained from disputing the sovereignty
and ownership of the State of Louisiana in the land and water
territory south and west of said boundary line as laid down on
the foregoing map.
And that the costs of this suit be borne by the State of
Mississippi.

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
IN EQUITY.
No. 2. Original.

Decree entered April 23, 1906.

The boundary line between the State of Iowa and the State of Illinois is
the middle of the main navigable channel of the Mississippi river at
the places where the nine bridges mentioned in the pleadings cross said
river.

THIs cause came on for final decree and was submitted on
the following stipulation:
"And now comes the State of Iowa, complainant in this
cause, and also comes the State of Illinois, defendant in this
cause, and severally and jointly move the court to vacate and
set aside so much of the interlocutory order entered in this
cause on the third day of January, A. D. 1893, as orders 'that
a commission be appointed to ascertain and designate at said
places the boundary line between the two States, said commission consisting of three competent persons to be named by the
court, upon suggestion of counsel, and be required to make a
proper examination and to delineate on maps prepared for that
purlpose the true line as determined by this court and report
the same to the court for its further action' ; and also the interlocutory order entered in this cause on the seventh -day of
March, A. D. 1893; and also that part of the interlocutory order entered in this cause on the tenth (lay of April, A. D. 1893,
which was not set aside and -vacated by the interlocutory order

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S.

entered in this cause on the fifteenth day of January, A. D.
1894; and that that part of the interlocutory order entered in
this cause on the third day of January, A. D. 1893, whereby
it was 'ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court that the
boundary line between the State of Iowa and the State of Illinois is the middle of the main navigable channel of the Mississippi river at the places where the nine bridges mentioned in
the pleadings cross said river,' be declared the final order, judgment, and decree of this court in this cause.
"CHAs.

W., MULLAN,

"Attorney General of "Iowa.
"W. H. STEAD,
"Attorney General of Illinois."
PER CURIAM: In consideration whereof and of the decision
of this court reported 147 U. S. 1, it is ordered, adjudged and
decreed that the boundary line between the State of Iowa and
the State of Illinois is the middle of the main navigable channel
of the Mississippi river at the places where .the nine bridges
mentioned in the pleadings cross said river.

OREGON v. IIT

ITCOCK.

IN EQUITY.
No. 16, Original.

Argued April 5, 6, 1906.-Deci(led April 23, 1906.

In the absence of any act of Congress waiving immunity of the United
States or consenting that it be sued in respect to swanp lands, either
within or without an Indian reservation, or of any act of Congress asstiniing full responsibility in behalf of its wards, the Indians, affectinig their
rights to such lands, this court has no jurisdiction of am action brought.
by a State against the Secretary of the. Interior and Commissioner of
the General Land Office to enjoin them from patenting to Indians lands
within that State, claimed by the State under the swam t ) land acts.

