OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

20 U. S.

to the Southern Car and Foundry Company, which was a
citizen of the State of New Jersey. The amount involved and
the diverse citizenship of the parties were such that the car
company might have sued the defendant, a citizen of the
State of Alabama, in the Circuit Court of the United States
independently of the bankruptcy proceedings. We think,
by the terms of this section, it was intended to preserve this
right to the trustee in bankruptcy, and that the citizenship of
the trustee is wholly immaterial to the jurisdiction of such a
case.
The Circuit Court erred in reaching the contrary conclusion;
and its judgment is
Reversed.

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
WARNER, BARNES AND COMPANY, LIMITED, v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

APPEAL FROM THE

COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 149,466. Argued March 3, 1905; decided April 3,1905; Petitions for rehearing allowed May 29, 1905; Reargued January 18, 19, 1006.-Decided on reargument May 28, 1906.

Lincoln v. United States, 197 U. S. 419, reaffirmed, after rehearing, to the

effect that the Executive order of July 12, 1898, directing that upon the
occupation of ports and places in the Philippine Islands by the forces
of the United States duties should be levied and collected as a military
contribution, was a regulation for and during the war with Spain, referred
to as definitely as though it had been named, and the right to levy duties
thereunder on goods brought from the United States ceased on the
exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace; that after title to the
Philippine Islands passed by the exchange of ratifications on April 11,
1899, there was nothing in the Philippine Insurrection of sufficient gravity
to give to those islands the character of foreign countries within the
meaning of a tariff act; that the ratification of Executive action, and of
authorities under the Executive order of July 12, 1898, contained in the
act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691, was confined to actions taken in accord-

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

ance with itr provisions; and that the exaction of duties on goods brought
from the United States after April 11, 1899, was not in accordance with
those provisions and was not ratified.
A ratification by act of Congress will not be extended to cover what was
not, in the judgment of the courts, intended to be covered, because otherwise the ratification would be meaningless or unnecessary. Congress
out of abundant caution may ratify, and at times has ratified, that which
was subsequently found not to have needed ratification.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Paul Fuller, Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. John G.
Carlisle, with whom Mr. Henry M. Ward was on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error and appellant: 1
The moneys exacted from the plaintiffs in error and appellants were unlawfully exacted and consequently are still
their property. No change of title is operated by illegal
seizure. That point is not open to reargument. Warner,
Barnes & Co. v. United States, 197 U. S. 419; Dorr v. United
States, 195 U. S. 138; Rassmussen v. United States, 197 U. S.
516;: Czarnikow v. Bidwell, 191 U. S. 559; De Lima v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 1, 199, 200.
The only question subject to rehearing is the effect of the
act of Congress of July 1, 1902, upon the illegal seizure of the
moneys'of complainants and whether their. ownership of the
moneys was divested by the operation of said act.
Congress had no power to divest the complainants of their
ownership of the moneys or deprive them of their property.
Constitution, Fifth Amendment; United States v. Lee, 106
U. S. 218, 219. Nor could any ratification of an illegal act
operate a change of title, nor divest complainants of their
vested right to recover the moneys unlawfully exacted. De
Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 199, 200; Alter's Appeal, 67
Pa. St. 433; Donovan v. Pitcher, 53 Alabama, 634; Palairet's,
Appeal, 67 Pa. St. 341; Norman v. Heist, 5 W. & S. 171.
I There wss also a separate brief filed by. Mr. Hilary A. Herbert and Mr.
Benj. Micou in behalf of certain claimants having interests similar to.those
of appellants.

'486

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

202 U. S.

Apart from the right of the complainants to protect their
ownership of the moneys as against the United States and to
bring suit for recovery,-comp!ainants had a right of recovery
against the officer or agent who -made the illegal exaction.
Such was the recovery in De Lima v., Bidwell, supra. This
right of recovery or right of action against the official who
makes the exaction or commits the trespass is recognized in
a long line of cases. Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch, 170; Meigs
v. McClung's Lessee, 9 Cranch, 11; Osborn v. Bank ofU. S.,
9 Wheat. 738; Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363; Bates v.
Clark, 95 U. S. 204; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 270; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443;
MeGahey v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 662; Belknap v. Schild, 161
U. S. 10.
Such a right of action constitutes property in the same sense
as tangible things and is equally entitled to, protection against
arbitrary interference or legislative impairment; even to the
extent that the denial-of a remedy or imposition of new conditions or restrictions aipon its exercise is such an interference.
Cooley, Const. Lim., 6th ed., 443; Sutherland, Stat. Const.
§§ 164, 206; Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450, 457, 458;
Angle v. Chicago, St. P. &c. Ry., 151 U. S. 1, 19; Bronson v.
Kinzie, 1 -How. 311, 317; Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118,
and cases there collated; Auffmordt v. Rasin, 102 U. S. 622;
Hubbard v. Brainard,35 Connecticut, 563.
The limitation upon the right to pass retrospective or retroactive legislation is that it must not interfere with vested
rights. Fleckner v. Bank of U. S., 8 Wheat. 338, 363; Society
v. Wheeler, 22 Fed. Cas. 767 (per Story, J.), approved in
Sturgis v. Oarter, 114 U. S. 519.
All of the cases in the books validating assessments or
municipAl bond issues have reference solely to the methods of
action employed and relate to statutes curative only of defects in the procedure by which an :undoubted power has been
exercised. Such is the~case of Mattingly v. District of Counibia, 97 U. S. 687, and the many kindred cases. No cases can

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

be found in this court where the fundamental absence of power
to do an act sought to be supplied by subsequent legislation
has been upheld.
The distinction is well pointed out in Lennon v. The Mayor,
53 N. Y. 367, and in Cromwell v. MacLean, 123 N. Y. 474 (per
Peckham, J.).
The constitutional guarantees against protection are as applicable to personal property as to realty. Relief against
interference with such property can be had against the United
States as well as against individuals. Osborn v. Bank of U. S.,
91 U. S. 474; United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128; United
States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30.
Congress cannot. ratify an invalid act unless at the time of
ratification it could itself lawfully do the act which it assumes
to ratify. Unless Congress could in July, 1902, have legally
imposed customs duties upon importations theretofore made
into the Philippines, it could not, under guise of ratification,
accomplish an identical result. Grenada Co. Supervisors v.
Brogden, 112 U. S. 271; Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S.
457; Kimball v. Rosedale, 42 Wisconsin, 413.
The power of Congress is limited in the levying of duties to
a tax upon the importation of merchandise; if merchandise
has been imported in accordance with existing law, free from
duty, and is mingled with the property of the country, Congress has no authority to levy duties upon it. Complainants'
merchandise was imported free of duty in accordance with the
law at the time of its importation and Congress cannot by a
retroactive law sanction the imposition of the-duty upon goods
not subject to it at the time of their importation.
The act of July 1, 1902, does not disclose any intention to
legalize the collection of duties which this court had decided
to have been unlawfully exacted. Duties are never imposed
upon vague or doubtful interpretations; the requirement of
a tax law is that any intention to impose a burden upon the
citizen must be expressed in clear and unambiguous language
Hartranjtv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609; Am. N. & T. Co. v

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

-

202 U. S.

Worthington, 141 U. S. 468. There is no such intention expressed in clear language; if such was the purpose of Congress
it could have been expressed in language of the utmost simplicity. Under the decisions quoted such an intention cannot
be inferred.
Such an inference would assume that the Government is
unwilling to fulfill its obligations, pay its.debts and do justice
to the citizen. This is a supposition that cannot be indulged
in. Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 274. It is as much the
duty of the Government as of individuals to fulfil its obligations and no assumption can be indulged in that the United
States intended to deprive the citizen of his property without
compensation. United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 144; Meigs
v. McClung's Lessee, 9 Cranch, 11; United States v. State Bank,
96 U. S. 30.
A contrary intent is shown in cotemporary acts of C-tgress
authorizing the refunding to citizens of duties unadvisedly
collected. Act of April 29, 1902, 32 Stat. 176; act of March 3,
1903, 32 Stat. 1224; act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1013. It
may rightfully be presumed that the legislatgre never intends
to interfere with the action of the courts. Angle v. Chicago
& St. P. Ry., 151 U. S. 20. To infer such an intention would
assume that Congress intended to ignore the prohibitions of
the Fifth Amendment and such a presumption will never be
assumed. Supervisors v. Brogden, 112 U. S. 269, and cases
collated in Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 214.
Thd act of July 1, 1902, § 5, extends to the Philippines the
constitutional guarantees for the protection of property which
is inconsistent with the intention attributed to the act of depriving citizens of property without a hearing. The act only
purports to ratify the action of the President as set forth in
the order of July 12, 1898, and the action of the authorities
"taken in accordance with the provisions of said order." It
has already been held that the order was only intended to
enforce the payment of duties on goods from foreign countries
and that it ceased to apply to the Philippines, when the Philip-

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

pines ceased to be foreign. Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S.
235; Lincoln v. United States, 197 U. S. 428.
The act did not ratify nor assume to ratify acts done beyond
the sanction of the order or under misinterpretations of the
order. The authorities misinterpreted the order in applying
-it to the Philippines, after the Philippines had ceased to be
foreign as held in the Fourteen Diamond Rings, 183 U. S. 176.
What the act of July 1, 1902, probably intended to ratify
and did ratify was the action of the President in applying the
order and in enforcing certain additional or amendatory orders
after the ratification of the treaty of peace, such as applying
a tariff between the Philippines and foreign countries, different
from the congressional tariff applicable to the United States,
contrary to the rulings of this court in Cross v. Harrison, 16
How. 164. Dooley v. United States, 182 U S. 222; .De Lima
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 184. And the further assumption of authority by the President in adding articles to the dutiable
list (Tariff Circular No. 53, War Department, 17 Apr., 1899),
in constituting the Philippines and the Island of Guam into
a collection district, creating ports of entry and directing the
appointment of collectors, auditors, etc. Tariff Circular
No. 65, War Department, 5th May, 1899; Circular No. 20,
Division of Custom and Insular Affairs, 8 May, 1899.
The exercise of these powers in time of peace were of questionable validity and a proper subject for congressional ratification.
The Attorney General and The Solicitor General for the United
States:
The failure of Congress at the outset to enact as to the
Philippine tariff specifically as soon as the treaty of December 8, 1898, was ratified, must be taken, we think, to mean
that Congress also supposed that the war power of the President
was ample and extended to the new armed conflict. The
legislature not disapproving, its silence signified assent and
acquiescence. Apart from formal recorded proceedings, corn-

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

mittee action, the taking of testimony, etc., it must be conclusively presumed that Congress was fully informed at all
stages and knew exactly what Was taking place and being done
both in the military campaigns and in civil administration.
The formal and concrete action of. Congress during the insurrectionary period up to the enactment of the Spooner amendment was logically confined tO providing,.men and munitions.
This was necessary for Congre~s to do, and this is all that was
necessary for it to do consistently with the idea of its tacit
assumption of the extent of the executive power and its tacit
agreement in the propriety of the excutive acts. Plainly no
unfavorable inference can be drawn from this essential "legislation of the purse," as containing in the affirmative grant a
sort of negative pregnant; this is not a prohibition on the President or any dissent whatever from the civil and military
programme of his administration.
Then came the Spooner amendment in March, 1901, and
whatever else may be pertinent to say about it, this much is
certain-that it followed by substantial reproduction of language the precedent of the Louisiana case (act of October 31,
1803; 2 Stat. 245); that there could not well be a broader
grant of power giving the President all I.ssible authority to
cover every phase of the Philippine emergencies and necessities, and that the general intention of Congress at that point
to approve comprehensively what the President had previously done, and to authorize him comprehensively to act thus
in future, appears too plainly for any discussion.
The act of March 8, 1902, was the adoption by Congress
itself, as its own tariff law for the Philippines, of the existing
provisional tariff, without any change, and specifying that it
applied to merchandise entering the Philippines from the
United States. This statute altogether disposed for the future
of the question of the validity of the taxation, and of course
falls completely within the ruling of the insular cases respecting the constitutionality of the analogous law for Porto Rico
-the Foraker Act. No reasonable mind could doubt that the

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument-for the United States.

fair and natural inference from this act is that Congress had
followed the proceedings in the tariff field respecting the Philippines'and approved what had, been done, although so far without specific ratification as to the past. In other words, this
act throws light on the real intendment of Congress in the
ratifying act of the following July.
It is certainly difficult to a plain apprehension approaching
the confirming act of July 1, 1902, and reading the language
in the light of the previous facts which we, have briefly set
forth, to conceive that Congress did not mean to foreclose this
subject when it approved, ratified, and confirmed the action
of the President as set forth in his order of July 12, 1898,
together with the subsequent amendments of said order, :and
approved the action of the authorities of the government of
the Philippine Islands taken in accordance with the provisions
of said order and subsequent, amendments.
With deference, it seems like ignoring the plain meaning and
searching for hidden significance and distinctions which were
not at all in the mind of Congress and do not really exist, to
say-that the statute was meant to ratify the President's action
only so far as taken by virtue of his undoubted authority as
Commander in Chief, and approved only those proceedings
and doings of his subordinate officers which were in unquestioned accordance with the provisions of the order; that is,
as applicable only before April 11, 1899; because all those actions of the Executive (prior to April 11, 1899) were unquestionably valid without ratification by Congress under established principles of public law.
Long before the act was passed this court said when it
decided in Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, that the
executive action imposing duties upon goods imported into
Porto Rico up to the date of ratification of the treaty of peace
was entirely valid.
The language used has this full force and significance
and it is impossible to restrain and confine it to the time,
and the executive action, before April 11, 1899, unless 'the

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

words of the statute are wrested from their obvious and natural
import.

Congress could have authorized the imposition of duties in
advance, and therefore could ratify afterwards. There was no
illegal delegation of legislative power or approval tantamount

to attempted illegal delegation by relation back. The President's tariff order was a military decree, operating with the
compulsion of a command upon all subordinate officers. It is
misleading to treat it as legislation. But in either aspect, as
military mandate or law, it was valid in origin. Dooley v.
United States, 182 U. S. 222, 230.
When its constitutional authority expired on April 11, 1899,
the Executive was acting, not legislating, believing the action
authorized; it was proceeding de facto. There was no legislation or revival of legislation. The subsequent amendments to
the 'order were administrative directions to military officers
and were believed to rest on the war power. When Congress
approved, it did not seek to revitalize a legislative power or
validate. nunc pro tune an unconstitutional exercise of such
power. jt simply confirmed the 'acts done and adopted the
effects of the previous originating legislative cause, which was
efficacious de facto, although its legal validity had expired. It
was efficacious de facto because the acts were done in point
of fact.
Clearly, Congress could have authorized in advance. On
Aprii 11, 1899, it could have passed the Philippine tariff act
which it passed March 8, 1902. Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.
244. On April 11, 1899, it could have authorized the President to proceed as he did, to continue the operation of the
tariff order which he had already imposed and under which,
in fact, he steadily collected duties. That is to stLy, on April 11,
:1899, Congress could have adopted the Spooner amendment
of March 2, 1901, which the court fully recogrizes as a constitutional delegation of power to the President and his subordinate executive agencies, resting on the authority of Congress to "make all needful rules and regulations respecting

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

the territory
.
.
belonging to the United States." Dorr
v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, 143, 153.
This case does not involve the consequence that Congress
must be able to lay a retrospective tax, that is, impose duties
now on a transaction of, say, five years agr. But if such a
tax were equal and uniform, what is to prevent? Congress
perhaps is not likely so to tax; it might be unwise or even
unjust, but it would be constitutionally valid. There is no
precise authority, but this is manifestly the tendency. and
effect of Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall. 323.
As to the notion of vested right.
This case does not fall
within that exception, either, as preventing subsequent ratification by Congress.
On the general doctrines about ratification we cite the
following authorities additional to those cited on the original
hearing. State v. Squires, 26 Iowa, 340; Grogan v. San Francisco, 18 California, 590; McCauley v. Brooks, 16 California,
1, 27; McCracken v. San Francisco, 16 California, 591; Brady
v. Mayor &c., 16 How. Pr. 432; Zottman v. San Francisco,
20 California, 97; Petersonv. Mayor &c., 17 N. Y. 449; Schneck
v. City ol Jeffersonville, .152 Indiana, 204; Marks v. Purdue
University, 37 Indiana, 155.
The vested right must be one which is constitutionally
protected, that is, the right to be compensated when private
property is taken for public use, and the right to have due
process of law. It is idle to claim that legislation may not
affect vested rights of property, and no man has a vested
right not to be taxed. There was due process of law here,
because when these duties were levied, the law of the Philip'pines, like our own law, fully provided for protest and hearing.
That is, there was entire compliance with the rules of due
process as to tax levies. It is only when there is no notice to
the taxpayer or some other vital defect, as in the authorities
cited by our adversaries, that the tax is illegal. There is no
more reason for saying that private property is taken here
for public use without compensation, than in any other case

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

of taxation. All these suggestions beg the question. The
very inquiry before the court is whether these duties are the
claimants' property.
The power of a legislature to confirm embraces not only cases
where mere irregularities or informalities in procedure are
cured, but where there was a total want of authority in the
executive officer and the tax levies were therefore utterly void.
It makes no difference if rights are divested. To legalize a
tax in this way does not unconstitutionally interfere with
-vested rights. There is no right .of action vested beyond con•trol by the curative' act, and the bringing of suit makes no
difference. Iowa R. R. Land Co. v. Soper, 39 Ibwa, 112, and
cases cited; Grim -v. School District, 57 Pa. St. 433. 'The
power to tax, and especially the Federal power to tax, is unlimited, and the constitutionality, of retrospective laws has
been sustained many times. The real question is whether the
retrospective intention is clear. In De. Lima v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 1, 199, the retroactive effect of the statute rested on
inference, and the court naturally construed it as not intended
to operate retroactively. This law is, however, expressly and
manifestly retroactive, leaving no room for construction. The
claimants appear to repudiate the idea that the filing of suit
makes any difference, by which they seem to mean that their
mere right of action is protected, and probably have in mind
the numerous suits filed after July 1, 1902. If the intention
of Congress is sustained by the court and only the retroactive
power denied, manifestly those suits fall. But we go beyond
the claimants' concession. We say that a right of action is not
a vested right of property, and that the bringing of suit even
before the passage of the act does not vest a right. The state
authorities cited for the contrary view in De. Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 200, on analysis show that the bringing of
suit was not the real ground of decision. For instance, in
Palairet'sAppeal, 67 Pa. St. 479, it was simply held that an
act of assembly providing for the extinguishment of irredeemnable ground rents was unconstitutional, because it took.

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

private property for private use without consent of the owner.
There is no such case here. There is no taking even for publicuse, because, on fundamental and firmly established principles, burdens on property imposed under the power of taxation do not constitute a taking of private property for public
use without compensation.
Further, in De Lima v. Bidwell there was due protest.
There was no protest at all in these cases, written or verbal,
formal or informal. That alone is a sufficient ground foi denying this claim. Protest is a necessary preliminary to establish any claim. The authorities without exception sustain the
contention that where there is no protest the payment is voluntary and cannot be recovered. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10
Pet. 137; Bend v. Hoyt, 13 Pet. 263; Converse v. Burgess, 18
How. 413; Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wall. 720; Nicholl v.
United States, 7 Wall. 122; Wright v. Blakeslee, 101 U. S. 174;
Barney v. Rickard, 157 U. S. 352; Chesebrough v. United
States, 192 U. S. 253. And see especially Hamilton v. Dillin,
21 Wall. 73, 92; and Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 201, as to
the supposed "compulsion" resting on importers. No valid
reason can be given why absence of protest cannot now be
set up as a defense.
MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

These are suits to recover duties exacted from plaintiffs in
error and appellants upon merchandise shipped by them from
New York to Manila, and landed at the latter port between
April 11, 1899, the date when the ratifications of the treaty
with Spain were exchanged, and the treaty proclaimed, and
October 25, 1901. The duties were levied under an order of
the President, dated July 12, 1898. The cases were argued in
this court March 3, 1905, and the judgments reversed April 3,
1905. 197 U. S. 419, 429.
We ruled that the order of July 12, 1898, was a regulation

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

for and during the then existing war with Spain, referred to
as definitely as if it had been named, and that the right to levy
duties thereunder on goods brought from the United States
ceased on the exchange of ratifications. Dooley v. United
States, 182 U. S.222.
And that after title passed, April 11, 1899, there was nothing
in the Philippine insurrection of sufficient gravity to give to the
islands the character of foreign countries within the meaning
of a tariff act. Fourteen Diamond Rings, 183 U. S.176. As to
the subsidiary point that whether the exaction of the duties
,was lawful or not, it had been ratified by the act of July 1, 1902,
32 Stat. 691, 692, c. 1369, § 2, we were of opinion that the
ratification of "the actions of the authorities.

.

.

.

taken

in accordance with the provisions of said order and subsequent
amendments" was confined to actions which were taken in accordance with the provisions of the order and amendments,
which these exactions were not. May 29,1905, we allowed petitions for rehearing to be filed addressed solely to the matter of
ratification; and subsequently (November 13) a rehearing was
granted "as to the question whether Congress ratified the collection of the sums sought to be recovered in these suits."
The cases were reargued January 18 and 19 on that question.
That the moneys exacted from plaintiffs in error and appellants were illegally exacted is not open to question under our
order, unless the act of July 1, 1902, operated to the contrary.
The second section of that act reads as follows: "That the action of the President of the United States heretofore taken by
virtue 'of the authority vested in him as Commander in Chief
of the Army and Navy, as set forth in his order of July twelfth ,
eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, whereby a tariff of duties
and taxes as set forth by said order was to be levied and collected at all ports and places in'the Philippine Islands upon
passing into the occupation .and possession of the forces of the
United States, together with the subsequent amendments of
said order, are hereby approved, ratified, and confirmed, and
the actions of the authorities of the government of the Philip-

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pine Islands, taken in accordance with the provisions of said
order and subsequent amendments, are hereby approved."
The order of July 12, 1898, by President McKinley, as Commander in Chief, directed that upon occupation of any ports
or places in the Philippine Islands by the forces of the United
States an accompanying tariff of duties and taxes should be
levied and collected as a military contribution, and that regulations for its administration should take effect and be in force
in the ports and places occupied. Manila was captured August 13, and the next day the custom house was opened and
taxes were collected according to the prior Spanish tariff up
to November 10, 1898, until which date the order of July 12
had been suspended.
On the rehearing an order of the Military Governor of the
Philippines of October 26, 1898, which embodied the full text
of the customs tariff and regulations, was brought forward, and
was in all essential respects a repetition of the order of July 12.
The Porto Rican cases were decided May 27, 1901, and in
June the Secretary of War cabled the commission at Manila
that: "The most obvious distinction between the status of
Porto Rico and the Philippines, after the cession, indicated in
the opinions of the court, is in the fact that Porto Rico was at
the time of cession in full peaceable possession, while a state of
war has continued in the Philippines. As the question of- the
President's power to impose duties in the Philippine Islands
under the existing conditions of military occupation has not
been decided by the court, the President has determined to
continue to impose duties as heretofore."
Undoubtedly the order of July 12, 1898, contemplated vessels from America as well as others, yet that order, having been
made in time of war, for a military contribution, when the
Philippines did not belong to us, must be taken to have contemplated them, as it contemplated those from other countries,
as vessels foreign to the country, and to have imposed the tax
upon them qua foreign. The military tax was, so to speak, a
seizure of Spanish revenues. That was what the order meant
vor.. ccii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

when it was passed, and a change of circumstances did not
change its meaning. Neither was the meaning changed by any
amendment. The ground on which it was kept in force by the
Secretary of War, June 8, 1901, was that the Philippines were
still in a state of war. If that view had been correct the order
would have applied and would have -had lawful effect, but it
turned out not to be correct.
The ratification may be assumed to apply to the order as
actually made, and not to have been limited to such an order
or so much of this order as the President had a right to make.
But it does not construe the order, and as it confines the ratification to actions in accordance with the order and amendments, the question- what actions were in accordance with them
is for us. The statute does not ratify all actions or all collections of taxes, as it easily might have done, but only actions in
accordance with the order. If the order properly construed did
not purport to apply to vessels unless they were either enemy
or foreign, then when a vessel ceased to be foreign the order
did not apply, and a tax upon such a vessel not being in accordance with the order is not ratified by the act. This construction
is favored by the consideration that the suits had been begun
when the act of July 1, 1902, was passed, and that, even if Congress could deprive plaintiffs of their vested rights in process
of being asserted, Hamilton v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73, still it is not
to be presumed to do so on language which, literally taken, has
a-narrower sense.
-Moreover, the act of July, 1902, was passed with full knowledge and after careful consideration of the decisions of this
court, and Congress was aware that grave doubt, at least, had
been thrown upon its power to ratify a tax under circumstances
like' the present. De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 199, 200.
This affords a special reason for believing that if it had intended to encounter the limitations of that case it would have
done so in clear words from which there was no.escape.
It should also be remembered that there was a powerful oppopition in Congress and that the phraseology of the act prob-

LINCOLN v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ably represents all that it was deemed safe to ask. Every consideration requires that the ambiguous language of the act
should not be stretched beyond the exact and literal meaning
of the words. In a literal sense they ratify only actions in
accordance with the order construed as it would have been
construed :by this court had it come before us upon the day
when it was made.
It is not a sufficient answer to say that the ratification was
meaningless unless it embraced duties collected on imports
from the United States after April 11, 1899, because the exactions before were legal. The instances are many where Congress out of abundant caution has ratified what did not need,
or was afterwards found not to have needed, ratification. Cross
v. Harrison, 16 How. 164; Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635.

It Would be inadmissible to lay down as a general rule that
a particular ratification covered what was not, in the judgment
of the courts, included or intended to be, simply because it
might be thought to have been otherwise unnecessary.
In these cases, however, the ratification act was not otherwise
meaningless. Duties were collected under the order of July 12,
1898, as a military contribution while the war with Spain, was
in progress. The treaty was signed December 10, 1898, and
the President on December 21 issued an order proclaiming the
sovereignty of the United States in the islands and directing
duties and taxes to be collected in future as public revenues
for the support of the government. When the treaty was ratified the applicable laws of the United States became operative,
but the President, nevertheless, continued in force the tariff
created by the order of July 12, 1898, and by an order of
April 21, 1899, established a collection district with Manila as
the chief port of entry, and under these orders collections of
duties were made. This involves the question whether after
April 11, 1899, the President could have enforced any tariff

other than such as ,existed under acts of Congress or might be
sanctioned by Congress. And that question was put at rest
by this ratification.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
WHITE

and

MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

Much more might be said, but we think it would needlessly
prolong this opinion.
Notwithstanding the able argument of the Attorney General,
we adhere to the conclusion previously announced.
Judgments reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concurs MR. JUSTICE

dissenting.
Although I dissented in De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1,
-Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, and Fourteen Diamond
Rings, 183 U. S. 176, nevertheless I agreed to the judgment of
reversal as previously rendered in this case. 197 U. S. 429. I
was constrained so to do because to me it seemed that the determination of the substantial issues in the case were foreclosed
by the prior cases above mentioned, which were binding on me
under the rule of stare decisis. It is true that in this case, as
previously argued and decided, there was present the question
of an alleged. ratification by Congress of the imposition and
collection of the taxes in controversy; but, on the former argument, my attention was not directed to public reports and
documents throwing light upon the scope of the ratifying act,
as was done on the present argument. Construing the act of
,Congress which is relied upon to establish the ratification, by
the light of the public documents referred to, my mind sees no
possible escape from the conclusion that that act was intended
to and did ratify the collection of the charges complained of.
Having no doubt of the power of Congress to ratify, to my
mind it clearly results that I erred in giving my assent to the
previous judgment of reversal, and I therefore dissent from the
opinion and conclusion of the court now announced.
MCKENNA,

I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concurs
in this dissent.

