OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

202 U. S.

rights the liabilities also disappeared. Becoming a member of
the firm was the condition of both consequences. As the Bank
was not estopped by its dealings to deny that it was a partner,
it was not estopped to deny all liability for partnlership debts.
See California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 367. It seems
to us unnecessary to add more in order to show that the claim
against the plaintiff in error must be dismissed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE

.MCKENNA dissent.

UNITED STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEC
OND CIRCUIT.
No. 228. 'Argued April 17, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1906.

A bond given by an importer to a collector of customs and purporting to
be executed under cover of § 2899, Rev. Stat., conditioned. in double the
value of packages delivered to the importer by the collector and to be
forfeited if such packages are opened without consent of the collector and
in presence of an inspector, or if not returned to collector on his demand
.therefor, is a valid bond, for, although not conditioned in express words
of the statute, it does not run counter thereto and it is within the authority of the co'llector to accept it.
Under such 'a bond the obligation is fixed and the Government is not-required to prove any actual loss or damage but is entitled to recover the
full amount specified in the bond-double the value of the package
ordered to be returned-as a definite sum, to be paid by the importer
for nonfulfillnent of his statutory duty; and this obligation is not affected by anything contained in § 961, Rev. Stat., limiting reco-,cries
on forfeitures to amount due in equity.
Where Congress has provided a specific p~nalty for failing..to comply with
a statutory provision and obligation, it. is not within the province of courts
of equityto mitigate the harshness of the penalty or forfeiture or to grant
* relief running directly counter to the statutory requirements.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

-

UNITED STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
202 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Mr. J. C. McReynolds, Assistant Attorney General, for the
United States:
The purpose of Congress, clearly expressed in section 2899,
Revised Statutes, is that all imports shall be held pending examination, except when the collector, upon the owner's request, may decide that sample packages can: be relied on to
reveal the nature of all. To expedite deliveries and favor importers the statute permits them-the collector assenting-to
withdraw their merchandise, except the samples, provided
bond be given to return the same within ten days if called for.
The manifest purpose is to subject all the imports to inspection whenever the Government officers conclude that course
is proper.
The redelivery bond taken upon request of the importer is
purely voluntary. Much more is involved than mere pecuniary
loss to the Government. The articles may be contraband;
they may be necessary evidence to punish perjury; they always
furnish the best means of ascertaining values, false descriptions, etc.
Section 2899, Revised Statutes, permits demand for a separate, complete bond for each importation; but this would
entail much inconvenience upon large importers, and the Secretary of the Treasury, by regulation dating back to 1857,
Customs Regulations, article 391, allows a general bond upon
which the value of any consignment may be indorsed. In the
present case all parties voluntarily assented to the arrangement
and the matter stands as if a single bond of like tenor for
twice the value of the merchandise had been executed.
The recovery is not limited to the money loss sustained by
the Government. Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S.436; Smythe v.
United States, 188 U. S. 156; Nilson v. Jonesboro, 57 Arkansas,
168, 177; State v. Hall, 70 Mississippi, 678, 682; United States
v. Montell, Taney's Cir. Ct. Dec. 47; United States v. Hatch, 1
Paine, 336; United States v. Pingree, 1 Sprague, 339; Andrews'
Revenue Laws, 102.
The Government pursued the proper course by asking judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondents.

202 U. S.

ment for twice the value of the package called for. But if
the bond as executed had strictly followed the language
of section 2899, under the authority of Clark v. Barnard the
Government would have been entitled to demand a judgment
for twice the estimated value of the goods in the invoice which
contained the unreturned package. Secs. 2901, 2939, Rev.
Stat. Courts of equity will not interfere in cases of forfeiture
for the breach of covenants and conditions when there cannot be any just compensation. Story, Eq. Jur. §§ 1324, 1326;
Pomeroy, Eq. Jur. § 381.
The clause authorizing discharge of the bond upon payment
of double the estimated value of any unreturned package is not
specifically provided for by section 2899, Revised Statutes; but
it is not prohibited and, being less onerous than what might
have been demanded, one who voluntarily assented thereto
may not complain on that account. Moses v. United States,
166 U. S. 571, 586. The Secretary of the Treasury or his agent;
the collector, has authority to take common-law bonds and to
stipulate for liquidated damages therein. United States .v.
Tingey, 5 Pet. 115; United States v. Bradley, 10 Pet. 343;
United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395; Jessup v. United States,
106 U. S. 147; Constable v. National Steamship Co., 154 U. S.
79; The S. Oteri, 67 Fed. Rep. 146; Stephenson v. Monmouth
Min. & Mfg. Co., 84 Fed. Rep. 115; Grady v. United States,
98 Fed. Rep. 240.
If the clause permitting payment of twice the value of an
unreturned article is invalid the defect is cured by those provisions in the bond which follow the language of the statute.
The conditions being severable, the authorized one is good.
United States v. Mora, 97 U. S. 413.
Mr. W. Wickham Smith, with whom Mr. John K. Maxwell
was on the brief, for respondents:'
No damage having been -sustained by the Government there
can be no recovery under § 961, Rev. Stat. United States v.
Duys, 112 Fed. Rep. 875.

UNITED STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A sum of money in gross, to be paid for the non-performance
of an agreement, is considered as a penalty, the legal operation
of which is to cover the damages which the party, in whose
favor the stipulation is made, may have sustained from the
breach of contract by the opposite parfy. It will not, of course,
be considered as liquidated damages; and it will be incumbent
on the party who claims them as such to show that they were
so considered by the contracting party. Taylor v. Sandiord,
7 Wheat. 11; Van Buren v. Digges, 11 How. 461. See also
Watts v. Connors, 115 U. S. 353; Bignall v. Gould, 119 U. S.
495; Chicago House Wrecking Co. v. United States, 106 Fed.
Rep. 385; ManufacturingCo. v. Camp, 65 Fed. Rep. 794.
Under the customs administrative act a very similar bond
was considered in United States v. Cutajar, 59 Fed. Rep. 1000;
S. C., 67 Fed. Rep. 530, where it was held that, the statute not
having fixed the bond, the Secretary of the Treasury was not
authorized to impose the limit of bond but only the amount
proved to be due under it.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

An action was brought in the Circuit Court to recover upon
a certain redelivery bond purporting to be executed under cover
of section 2899, Rev. Stat. The respondents, prnicipals on the
bond, were partners, as Dieckerhoff, Raffoer & Co. Achelis
and Boker executed the bond as sureties. On January 13,
1897, Dieckerhoff, Raffloer & Co. imported by the steamship
Bovic certain merchandise which was entered in the New York
custom house and consisted of seven packages. These were
described in two invoices and are numbered 417 to 421, 983,
984. Package No. 418 was designated by the collector to be
sent to the public stores for examination and appraisal; the
others were turned over to the importer under section 2899,

Rev. Stat. The estimated value of the entire importation,
$1,522, was indorsed on the bond. Within ten days after the
examination and appraisal of package No. 418 the collector
ordered respondents to return package No. 420. This package
voil. cci -20

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

was not returned. Thereupon suit was instituted upon the
bond. A demurrer to th complaint was overruled, and an
answer was filed denying breach of the bond and also that the
United States had sustained any actual damages. At the trial
a customs clerk testified as to the value of package No. 420,
estimated from the invoice, that it .was $184.56; thi the indorsement on the bond was: "Vessel, Bovic; where from, Liverpool; amount, $1,522." It was conceded that the collector
had called for the return of the package, that the same was not
returned and respondents offered-no evidence. Counsel for the
-United State§ conceded that there was no proof in the case that
the United States had suffered actual damage, and that they
could make no such broof. Over the respondents' request for
a verdict in their favor the Circuit Court directed a verdict in
favor of the Government for $369.12, being twice the estimated
value of the unreturned package. The Circuit Court of Ap7
peals re- ersed this judgment.
The sections of the Revised Statutes pertinent to be consid-.
ered are:
"Sfc.. 2899. No merchandise-liable to be inspected or appraised shall be delivered from the custody of the officers of
the customs, until the same has been inspected or appraised,
or until the packages sent to be inspected or appraise '*all be
found correctly and fairly invoiced and put up, and so re, rted
to the collector. The collector may, however, at the reqhest
of the owner, importer, consignee, or agent, take bonds, with
approved security, in double the estimated value of such merchandise, conditioned that it shall .be delivered to the order of
the collect6r, at any time within ten days after the package sent
to the public stores has been appraised and reported to the
collector. If in the meantime any package shall be opened,
without. the consent of the collector or surveyor given in writing, and then in the presence of one of the inspectors of the
customs, or if the package is not'delivered to the order of the
collector, according to the condition of the bond, the bond
shall, in either case, be forfeited."

UNITED STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 2901. The-collector shall designate on the invoice at
least one package of every invoice, and one package at least
of every ten packages of merchandise, and a greater number
should he or either of the appraisers deem it necessary, imported
into "such port, to be opened, examined, and appraised, and
shall order the package so designated to the public stores for
examination; and if any package be found by the appraisers
to contain any article not specified in the invoice, and they or
a majority of them shall be of opinion that such article was
omitted in the invoice with fraudulent intent on the part of
the shipper, owner, or agent, the contents of the entire package in which the article may be, shall be liable to seizure and
forfeiture on conviction thereof before any court of competent
.jurisdiction; but if the appraisers shall be of opinion that no
such fraudulent intent existed, then the value of such article
shall be added to the entry, and the duties thereon paid, accordingly, and the same shall be delivered to the importer,
agent, or consignee. Such forfeiture may, however, be remitted
by the Secretary of the Treasury on the production of evidence
satisfactory to him that no fraud was intended."
"SEc. 2939. The collector of the port of New York shall not,
under any circumstances, direct to be sent for examination and
appraisement less than one package of every invoice, and one
package at least out of every ten packages of merchandise, and
a greater number should he, or the appraiser, or any assistant
appraiser, deem it necessary. When the Secretary of the Treasury, however, from the character and description of the merchandise, may be of the opinion that the examination of a less
proportion of packages will amply protect the revenue, he may,
by special regulation, direct a less number of packages to be
examined."
The bond was in the sum of fifty thousand dollars, and conditioned as follows:
"The condition of this obligation is such that if each and
every package or packages of each and every importation made
by the said principals at any time within six months from and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

after the date of these presents and delivered from the custody
of the officers of the customs in pursuance of section 2899, Revised Statutes of the United States, shall, within ten days after
the package or packages designated by the collector and sent
to the public store to be opened and examined, have been appraised and reported to him, be returned to the order of 'the
collector without having been opened except with the consent
of the collector or surveyor, given in writing, and then in the
presence oi one of the officers of the customs; or if the abovebounden obligors shall, in lieu of such return, pay to the proper
collecuing officer of said port double the estimated value of the
package or packages of merchandise not so returned, then this
obligation is to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and
virtue.
"And the above-bounden obligors do, for themselves, their
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, jointly and severally covenant and agree with the United States that the
collector of customs aforesaid shall indorse on this bond the
estimated value of each importation as made, and the date
thereof, and that the penalty of this bond shall be held to be
double the value of each importation as made and indorsed as
aforesaid; and that the value of the importation, where there
is no violation of the conditions of this bond, shall not in any
way affect the liability in'those cases where there shall be a
violation thereof."
Upon the facts stated the question is, How much, if anything, can th 'Government recover upon this bond? That
there is difficulty in the solution of the question is found in the
different suggestions put forward; that the actual damages
sustAined by the Government may be recovered, which is the
confintion of the respondents, and was the view .of a majority
of the Circuit Court of Appeals; second, the actual value of
the unreturned package, which was the view sustained by one
judge of the Circuit Court of Appeals; third, twice the value
of the package not returned, which was the view of the
Circuit Court; fourth, double the value of the consign-

UNITED -STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment, which seems to be the present contention of the Government.
It may be admitted that the bond does not follow in strict
terms the provisions of section 2899, which seems to require,
or at least to authorize, a bond in double the estimated value
of the merchandise imported, with a condition that it shall be
delivered to the order of the collector at any time within ten
days after the package sent to the public stores has been appraised and reported to the collector. The statute further
provides that if in the meantime.any package should be opened,:
without the consent of the collector or surveyor given in writing ,
and then in the presence of one of the inspectors of tie-customs,
or if the package is not delivered to the order of the collector,
according. to the condition of the bond; in either case it shall
be forfeited. The bond given, while it was for a period of six
months, in the sum of $50,000, provided that the collector of
customs should indorse on the bond the estimated value of
each importation and the date thereof, and that the penalty
of the bond should be double the value of each importation as
so made and indorsed, which in this case would make the
-penalty $3,044. This bond contains the condition that if
the obligors, in lieu of the return of the package, pay to
the proper collecting officer double the value of the. package
or packages not so returned then the obligation is to be
void.
While the statute does not provide in express terms for a
bond thus conditioned, it seems to be well settled that, although
not strictly in conformity with the statute; if it does not run
counter to the statute and is neither malum prohibitum nor
malum in se, it is a valid bond, although not in terms directly
Tequired by the statute. Moses v. United States, 166 U. S. 571,'
586. Indeed, the learned counsel for respondents concedes that
such a bond can be taken, and in his brief says: "Respondents
make no point as to the conformity of the bond to the statute,
or the right of Ithe United States or the collector to enforce it
in its form as made. For the purposes of this argument we

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. ,.

concede that it was a voluntary bond, enforceable according to
its terms, and that there has been a breach."
But we think this something more than a mere voluntary
bond. The statute authorizes, it is true, a more stringent undertaking, for literally it-authorizes a bond in double the value
of the merchandise, conditioned that it shall be delivered to
the order of the collector at any time within ten days after the
package sent to the public stores has been appraised and reported to the collector. And further provides that if, in the
meantime, any package shall be opened, except in the presence
of the collector in the manner provided, or if the package is not
delivered to the order of the collector, according to the condition of the bond, it shall in either case be forfeited. With this
ample authority to take a more enlarged undertaking we think
it was within the power of the collector to take the bond in
suit, which, taken together, provides for the return of any required package in n unopened condition or the payment of
double its value as a condition of being discharged from the
full penalty of the bond. There is nothing in this bond which
runs counter to the. statute, and it is within the authority conferred to take a bond which should be forfeited if the package
was not returned in the manner required. Certainly the makers
of the bond cannot complain that they have been permitted,
by its terms, to discharge the obligation to return a package
by paying double its value, when a bond in double the value
of the merchandise to be forfeited for the non-return of a package unopened might have been required.
The real question in the case, then, is what, if anything, can
be recovered under the circumstances shown, on the obligation
incurred in this bond. It is the contention of the respondents
that the United States can recover only for actual damages
which it has shown that it sustained, and that it was not the
purpose of the statute or the obligation of the bond given to
enlarge the liability beyond such damages as the Government
shall be able to allege and prove. But we think the purpose
of the statute and the purpose of the requirement in the bond

UNITED STATES v. DIECKERHOFF.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provided for therein, and the one given in this case, was to
secure the performance of the duty imposed of returning the
package or packages, where an importer availed lmself of the
privilege of withdrawing merchandise from the custody of the
governmental officials before it has been examined and appraised. It is the right of the Government to examine merchandise imported from foreign countries and ascertain its
value for the purpose of fixing the amount of duties collectible
thereon. It has the right to hold this merchandise until this
purpose can be effected. Obviously, in a country where th&
business of importing goods has become so vast, as is now the
case in the United States, it would be impracticable to store all
goods and hold them until examination. The law has, therefore, provided for the detention usually of one package in ten
of an importation, . and given the privilege to the importer of
removing the rest of the goods, but to be held intact subject
to the right of the Government, if an examination of the package s ordered for inispection shall suggest such course, to require
that other packages be returned intact for examination, and
if this statutory duty is not performed, we think it was the intention of the law to provide specific damages to be recovered
upon the non-performance of the duty imposed, and to secure
a prompt and faithful discharge of which the statute provides
for the giving of a bond.
In carrying out this purpose we hold the law permitted the
taking of such a bond as was given in this case, providing that
if the party did not return the package required he should pay
double the amount of the value thereof. We think such undertaking, for this manner of discharging this duty, or paying
the value stipulated, was intended to and does relieve the Govermnent from the necessity of showing any actual damage or
loss. It is suggested that the Government may prove the damages sustained possibly by. the testimony of informers or of
those who packed the merchandise before shipment, and in
other ways. But in our opinion it was the purpose of this
statute, and the bond executed in the case, to dispense with

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S

the necessity of resort to this method of showing damages and
to fix double the value of the package ordered to be returned,
as a definite sum to be paid for the nonfulfillment of the statutory duty. In such cases the recovery is for the stipulated
sum, and is not limited to the damages actually proven. Clark
v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436, 457.
It is strongly urged that this in many cases may work serious
hardship, and that in-all the years in which this statute or its
equivalent has been in force no action is shown to have been
brought upon this theory. But the contract is definite in its
terms, and it was the privilege of the importer to leave the
goods in the custody of the Government or take them out upon
giving the obligation which is the subject matter of this suit.
It may be that in some cases such a rule would permit the
Government to recover a large percentage of the value of the
goods imported, and it is suggested the package not returned
may represent the larger part of the value of the entire invoice,
but we do not think these considerations should overcome the
purposes of the statute and the terms of the obligation incurred
in the giving of this bond.
The purpose of the statute was to enforce the collection of
the revenues, and to require that goods shall be as represented,
and if removed from governmental control before the facts
about them are ascertained, to require them to be returned
unopened, except as provided by statute, or a specific penalty
be paid for failure so to do.
It is further contended that section 961, Rev. Stat., protects
against enforcement of a penalty of this kind. This section
provides: "In all suits brought to recover the forfeiture annexed to any articles of agreement, covenant, bond, or other
specialty, where the forfeiture, breach, or non-performance appears by the default or confession of the defendant, or upon
demurrer, the court shall render judgment for the plaintiff to
recover so much as is due accdrding to equity. And when the
sum for which judgment should be rendered is uncertain, it
shall, if either of the parties request it, be assessed by a jury."

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES."
202 U. S.

Syllabus.

But if we are correct in holding that it was the intention of
Congress to provide a specific penalty for failing to return the

merchandise as required, it is not within the province of courts
of equity to mitigate the harshness, of penalties or forfeitures
in such cases, for such relief would run directly counter to the
statutory requirements. Story, Eq. Jur. § 1326. We think"

the Circuit Court was right in rendering judgment for double
the value of the unreturned package.
The judgment of the Circuit Court oj Appeals will be reversed
and the judgment of the Circuit Court affirmed and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court'
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in the decision of this case.

DEVINE v. LOS ANGELES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 207. Argued March 13, 1906.-Decided May 14, 1.906.
Where diversity of citizenship does not exist a suit can only be maintained
in the Circuit Court of the United States on the ground that it arises under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, and it does not so arise
unless it really and substantially involves a controversy as to the effect
or construction of the Constitution or some law or treaty of the United
States on the determination whereof the result depends. This must
appear from plaintiff's statement of his own claim and cannot be aided
by allegations as to defenses which may be interposed.
In this case held that as a bill to quiet title the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court could not be sustained by reason of allegations that defendant's
adverse claims to the surface and subterranean waters of the Los Angeles
river were based on an erroneous construction of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the act of March 3, 1851, and certain state acts and city
ordinances.
Nor-can such jurisdiction be maintained of the suit as one to remove cloud
on title, as a bill in equity will not lie to dispel mere verbal assertions of
ownership or to adjudge state statutes and charters unconstitutional and
void. If the statutes and charters are unconstitutional they are void
and cannot constitute a cloud on title.
Where complainant claims title to land in California under Mexican grans
confirmed by the Board of Land Commissioners as the State of Californla

