OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

202 U. S

Court of the United States for Porto Rico in civil cases shah,
in addition to that conferred by the act of April twelfth, nineteen hundred, extend to and embrace controversies where the
parties, or either of them, are citizens of the United States, or
citizens or subjects of a foreign State or States."
The jurisdiction of the District Court,. when the parties on
both sides were the subjects of the King of Spain, has several
times been sustained by this court, and we do not feel required
in this case to make any other ruling.
Writ of error dismissed.

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 539.

Argued April 3, 4, 1906.-Decided May 21, 1906.

Congress has power to make it an offense against the United States for a
Senator or Representative, after his election and during his continuance
in office, to agree to receive, or to receive, compensation for services before
a Department of the Government, in relation to matters in which the
United States is directly or indirectly interested, and § 1782, Rev. Stat.,
is not repjugnant to the Constitution as interfering, nor does it by its
necessary operation, interfere with the legitimate authority of the House
of Congress over their respective members.
Including ini the sen tence of a Senator convicted of an offense inder § 1782,
R1ev. Stat., that he is rendered forever thereafter incapalble of holding any
office of trust or emolument of office under the Covernment of the United
States is simply a recital of the effct of the conviction, and the conviction does not operate ipso lacre to vacate his seat or compel the Senate
to expel him or to regard him as expelled.
While the Senate, as a bratch of the Legislative Il)epartment, owes its existcc to the Const,itutio n and passes laws that concern the entire country,
its members are choseti by state legislatures and cannot properly be sid
to hold their places n ledrthe Goveriment nf the United States.
The UJited States is interested, either direct,ly or indirectly within the
meaning of § 1782, Rev. Stat., in protecting its mails and postal facilities
from improper and illegal use and in enforcing statutes regulating such
use.

Where the indictment clearly discloses all the elements essential to the
commission of the offense charged, and the avernients are sufficient in

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the event of acquittal, to plead the judgment in lieu of a second prosecution for the same offense, the defendant is informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him within the meaning .of the Constitution and according to the rules of pleading;-and in this case the evidence
was sufficient to justify the case being sent to the jury and the court
below did not err in refusing to direct an acquittal, nor was there any
error in the court's charge to the jury.
Under § 1782, Rev. Stat., an agreement to receive compensation, whether
received or not for the prohibited services, is made one offense, and the
receiving- of compensation, whether in pursuance of a previous agreement or not, is made a separate and distinct offense.
The intention of the legislature must govern in the interpretation of a
statute. It is the legislature and not the court which is to define a crime
and ordain its punishment.
A plea of autrefois acquit must be upon a prosecution for the same identical
offense, and where defendant on a former trial was acquitted of having
received compensation forbidden by § 1782, Rev. Stat., from an individual described as an officer of a certain corporation, and at the same
time was found guilty of having received such compensation from the
company, he cainot plead the former acquittal as a bar to a further
prosecution of the charge that he had received such compensation from
the company.
The Federal court at the place where the agreement was made for compensation to perform services forbidden by §1782, Rev. Stat., has jurisdiction to try the offense, and even if the agreement was negotiated or
tentatively accepted at another place, the place of its final acceptance
and ratification is where the agreement was made although defendant
may not have been at that place at that time.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. Bailey P. Waggener and Mr. F. W.
Lehmann, with whom Mr. Harry Hubbard, Mr. W. H. Rossington, Mr. W. Knox Haynes and Mr. W. P. Hackney were on

the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The United States was not a party to nor interested in the
proceedings set forth in the indictment. Inhabitants v. Smith,
11 Metc. (Mass.) 390; McGrath v. The People, 100 Illinois, 464;
Evans v. Eaton, 7 Wheat. 356; State v. Sutton, 74 Vermont,
12; Foreman v. Marianna, 43 Arkansas, 324; Taylor v. Commissioners, 88 Illinois, 526; Railroad Company v. Kellog, 54

Nebraska, 138; Sauls v. Freeman, 24 Florida, 209; Bovmzan's
76; Case, 67 Missouri, 146; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

United States v. Sheldon, 2 Wheat. 119; United States v.
Morris, 14 Pet. 464; United States V. Clayton, 2 Dill. 218.
The indictment states no facts showing the pendency of
any proceeding in the Postal Department. United States v.
Hess, 124 U. S. 483; Post v. United States, 161 U. S. 583;
Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107; American School &c. v.
McAnulty, 102 Fed. Rep. 565; Dauphin v. Key, 11 D. C. App.
-203; Enterprise Savings Assn. v. Zumstein, 64 Fed. Rep. 837;
aff'd S. C., 67 Fed. Rep. 1000; Bates & Guild v. Payne, 194
U. S. 106; Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497;
United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253; qnited States v. Eaton,
144 U. S. 677; Caha v. United States, 152 U. S. 211.
There was a former indictment and trial for and acquittal
of the offense. Placing the defendant on trial again for the
offense alleged was in violation of the Sixth Amendment.
Baldwin v. Bank, 1 Wall. 234; Mechanics' Bank v. Bank, 5
Wheat. 236; Ford v. Williams, 21 How. 289; Navigation Co.
v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 381; Commercial Bank v. French,
21 Pick. 486; Dugan v. United States, 3 Wheat. 172. Cases in
2 Daniel on Negotiable Instr., 1st ed., §§ 1187-1189. State v.
Cooper, 13 N. J. Law, 361; Hurst v. State, 86 Alabama, 604;
Cooley, Const. Lir., 7th ed., 470; People v. McGowan, 17
Wend. 386; Monroe v. State, 111 Alabama, 15; United States
v. Lee, 4 Cranch C. C. 446; Ball v. United States, 163 U. S.
662; United States v. Nickcerson, 17 How. 204; Mitchell v.
State, 42 Ohio St. 384; Campbell v. State, 9 Yerger, 333; State
v. Martin, 30 Wisconsin, 216; Stuart v. Comm., 28 Gratt. 950;
Gintlher v. People, 24 N. Y. 100; Morris v. State, 8 S. & M.
762; Ste v. IKattlcman, 35 Missouri, 105; State v. Kibble, 2
Tyler, 471; Dcaly v. United States, 152 U. S. 539.
There was no evidene to go to the jury that Burton made
any agreemiieid to receive compensation for services to prevent
the issuance of a fraud order. Whatever agreement was mlade
to receive compensation from the Rialto Grain and Securities
Company for services, such agreement was not made in the
State of Missouri, and the defendant was deprived of his con-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

stitutional right to be tried in the State and District where
the agreement was made, contrary to § 2, art. III, of the
Constitution and of the Sixth Amendment thereof. Tayloe
v. Merchants' Ins. Co., 9 How. 390; Patrick v. Bowman, 149
U. S. 411; 12 Ency. Law and Prac. 239, 240; Burr's Case,
Marshall's Const. Dec. 82, 165; Palliser v. United States, 136
U. S.256; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S.212; Sands v.
State, 26 Tex. App. 580; United States v. Fowkes, 53 Fed.
Rep. 13; United States v. Dietrich, 126 Fed. Rep. 664; Eliason
v. Henshaw, 4 Wheat. 225; National Bank v. Hall, 101 U. S.
4.3; Railway Co. v. Rolling Mills, 119 U. S. 151; Chitty on
Contracts, 11 Am. ed., p. 15, note f; Christian Co. v. Bienville
Co., 106 Alabama, 124; Tennessee Co. v. Pierce, 81 Fed. Rep.
814; Seitz v. Brewers' &c. Co., 141 U. S.510.
The agreement of the defendant with the Rialto Company
was for service by the month, and no service in the Department having been rendered during the period covered by the
payment made March 26, there was no offense in the receipt
of that payment. Davis v. Preston, 6 Alabama, 83; Matthews
v. Jenkins, 80 Virginia, 463; La Coursier v. Russell, 82 Wisconsin, 265; Benedict v. United States, 176 U. S. 357; In re
Hans Nielsen, 131 U. S.188.
The defendant was not subject to trial and punishment
as for separate offenses in agreeing to receive and receiving
compensation for the services charged in the indictment to
have been rendered by him. 2 Bishop's New Criminal Procedure, §55; 1 Bishop's New Criminal Procedure, § 436;
State v. Jones, 106 Missouri, 802.
The juror William V. Jones was disqualified because he had
formed and still retained an opinion as to the guilt or innocence of the defendant, an opinion which was the result of
reading the reports df the former trial, which reports he believed to be true, and the challenge to him should have been
sustained. Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370; Williams
v. United States, 93 Fed. Rep. 396.
The letters of Houts, Evans, Allen, Warner "and Fravel,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

and the accompanying circulars and booklets, all of which
were read in full, to the jury, were incompetent and irrelevant
as' against the defendant, as he had no knowledge of them
whatever, and their contents were not necessary to show the
fact that some matter was pending in the Department against
the Rialto Grain and Securities Company. Tappan v. Beardsley, 10 Wall. 427.
The endorsements on the jacket subsequent to March 26,
1903, the report of Inspectors Price and Piatt of August 20,
1903, and the letter of Assistant Attorney General Robb of
September 9, 1903, were competent and material evidence for
defendant to disprove the charges of the indictment that he
had agreed to induce and had in fact induced the Postmaster
General to issue no fraud order against the company and to
stop investigation of it, and also to show that the investigation
being made by the Department was with reference to the indictment and prosecution of the officers of the Rialto Company.
The evidence of.Francis C. Hubner should have been stricken
out, as it established nothing and permitted the jury to conjecture that there had been an interview between the defendant and the Assistant Attorney General for the Post Office
Department relative to the affairs of the Rialto Company.
The instruction of the court as to what would constitute
service by the defendant in the Department is not responsive
to the charge of the indictment, and authorizes a conviction
on account of matters not alleged in the indictment, and said
charge is erroneous in other respects. The court also erred
in refusing to give instructions -asked 'by defendant. Flachskamm v. United States, 127 Fed. Rep. 674.
The court at St. Louis had no jurisdiction to try counts
three and seven, nor is such jurisdiction conferred by § 731,
Rev. Stat. The District of Columbia is not a "judicial circuit" or "judicial district" within the meaning of § 731.
The act of 1864, Rev. Stat. § 1782, under which the indictment was found, is unconstitutional. It is in conflict with
the fundamental idea on which our whole Federal Govern-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ment is founded, viz: that the Federal Government is a government of limited powers, with duties defined and restrictions
imposed, and no authority is lodged anywhere to change those
duties or restrictions, except the power reserved by the people.
The framers of our Government, in order to prevent the
concentration of power into the hands of one man or one
body of men, created three departments,-not necessarily to
work in harm6ny together, but each to act wholly independent
of the other. It was the intention, as shown by the debates
in the constitutional convention and the Constitution itself,
to establish an impassable gulf separating these three great
departments of the Federal Government. One department
shall not encroach upon or in any way coerce the other. To
that end there should be no blending of governmental functions, except where it was absolutely necessary, and then the
Constitution clearly and zealously guarded the independence
of each department, thus emphasizing the basic principle that
the great powers of government were so eternally separated
,each from the other that there could be no conflict between
them. The legislature should make, the judiciary interpret,
and the executive should administer, the laws..
The President, the members of Congress, and the judges
of the Supreme Court are the only officers of the Federal Constitution. All other officers of those several departments are
creatures of the legislature, or what this court has styled congressional officers, as distinguished from constitutional officers. The office of- the legislative official may be enlarged,
modified or abolished by Congress. This is not true of a constitutional office. It is permanent, fixed, and above and beyond the control of Congress. It is also above and beyond
the power of the Executive or Judicial Departments. It
gets its life from and can only be changed by the Constitution.
Every citizen, be he official or in private station, is alike
amenable to the law, but the constitutional official, acting as
an official, cannot be called to an account, or punished for
any official act, except in the mode as defiuiid and prescribed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

in the Constitution creating him. The recognition of this
principle is absolutely necessary to protect him in his independence as an official, and to protect the great, constitutional
bodies in their independence.
The Constitution defines how the President, a member of
this court, and a member of Congress can be punished for
any official misconduct, and by such constitutional provisions limits the manner of punishment; and Congress has no
power to add to or take from the express provisions so made
for that purpose. The denial of this proposition would place
it in the power of Congress to destroy the independence of
each Department, and nullify the Constitution, and that is
just the effect of the law under which this -prosecution is
brought.
A member of Congress may be punished in such manner
as each House may determine as to its "own members," and
the right to expel extends to all cases where the offense is such
as, in the judgment of "each House," is inconsistent with the
trust and duty of "its own members."
It would be an anomaly in a constitutional government,
with three cordinate branches of such government, as created
by the Federal Constitution, if the legislative branch, under
whatever pretext, could enact a law making any act of the
President, or any act of a Justice of the Supreme Court, a
misdemeanor, and delegate the jurisdiction and power to an
inferior judicial tribunal to try the President, or a Justice of
this court, for a violation of such law, and subject him to fine,
imprisonment and removal from office as the result of a verdict of a jury. The mere statement of the proposition would
seem to be sufficient to condemn it as absurd, and the shield
of the Constitution is no greater protection for the President,
-for the Justice of the Supreme Court,-than for the Senator,-each and all of whom are created by the Constitution.
The Government of the United States is one of enumerated
powers,-The national constitution being the instrument
which specifies them,-and in which authority should be fQund

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

for the exercise of any power which the National Government
assumes to possess. Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed,, 11; Martin
v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 343; Ableman v. Booth, 21
How. 519.
By the Constitution, there has been delegated express power
to each House to punish its own members, in such manner as,
in its wisdom, is just and proper, and, by "the concurrence of
two-thirds, 'may expel a member." When the Constitution
defines the circumstances under which a right may be exercised or a penalty imposed, the specification is an implied
prohibition against legislative interference to add to the condition, or to extend the penalty to other cases. Cooley, Const.
Lim., 7th ed., 99; Lowe v. Commonwealth, 3 Met. (Ky.) 241;
Falloon v. Clark, 61 Kansas, 127; Brown v. Grover, 6 Bush.
(Ky.) 3; Thomas v. Owens, 4 Maryland, 190; Commonwealth,
v. Williams, 79 Kentucky, 42; Sheehan v. Scott, 145 California, 684. See also Morris v. Powell, 125 Indiana, 287;
McAfferty v. Guyer, 58 Pa. St. 109.
The act of 1864 superadds disqualifications to those. expressly contained in the Constitution, and prescribes a mode
of procedure and a punishment not expressly authorized by
the Constitution, or conferred by necessary implication. Indeed, the express power conferred is an implied prohibition
against the exercise by Congress of that most extraordinary
legislation,-the basis of this prosecution.
No legislation is appropriate which should conflict with the
implied prohibitions upon Congress. They are as obligatory
as the express prohibitions. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S.
361.
When Senator Burton was chosen Senator of the United
States, he was chosen for six years. He had all of the qualifications prescribed by the Federal Constitution. He was only
required to consult the organic laws as to his duties and obligations as a Senator. He had the constitutional right to hold
the office for six years, subject only to the delegated, enumerated
and express power of the Senate to expel him, and subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

the disqualifications provided in section 6, article II, of the
Constitution.
The act of 1864 applies only to the conduct or. action of
the Senator, as contradistinguished from the conduct or
action of the citizen. It is a limitation and restriction upon
the conduct and action of the Senator during his term of
office, nowhere in the Constitution, expressly or by necessary
implication, conferred upon Congress to create. The Senate,
by and through the power delegated to it by the Constitution, might properly expel for doing of the things charged
in the indictment, as a violation of senatorial dignity, but
Congress had no power, by enactment, to make such acts
and conduct of the Senator a crime, and delegate to the Judiciary the power to take from the Senator the rights and
privileges guaranteed by the Constitution. The judgment of
conviction not only imprisons him, but disqualifies him from
holding the office for which he was chosen by the State of
Kansas, for "six years." United States v. Harris, 106 U. S.
636; 1 Story on Const. § 833; 1 Kent's Com. 235; People v.
Hall, 80 N. Y. 121.
The act of 1864, and section 5, article I, of the Constitution,
are wholly incompatible, and in irreconcilable conflict. It
cannot be that the framers of the Constitution intended, by
express grant, to confer upon each House- the power to be
the sole judge of the qualification of its own members, and,
by implication, to confer the power upon both House and
Senate, by concurrent action, by statute, to disable .and disqualify each House from exercising the powers thus expressly
conferred.
In all of the debates in the constitutional convention, such
a contingency was not considered. Evidently, by the express
grant conferred by the Constitution, the intention was to
lodge the power in each House, to the exclusion of the other.
The identical question was decided by Mr. Justice Brewer,
when on the supreme bench of Kansas, in the case of State
v. Gilmore, 20 Kansas, 554, in which was under consideration

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U.. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

a section of the constitution of the State of Kansas, exactly
similar to the first clause of section 5, article I, Constitution
of the United States. See also State V. Tomlinson, 20 Kansas,
703; Robertson v. State, 109 Indiana, 92; State v. Baxter, 28
Arkansas, 129.
It is well settled that section .5,article I, providing that
"Each House shall be the judge of the elections, returns and
qualifications' of its own members," confers upon "each
House" powers of a judicial nature,-in the exercise of which
its decision is conclusive, and not subject to review by the
courts. People v. Mahoney, 13 Michigan, 482; Dalton v.
State, 43 Ohio St. 680. Wherever the Constitution has prescribed the qualifications of electors, they cannot be changed
or added to by the Legislature, or otherwise than by an amendment of the Constitution. Cooley, Const. Law, 5th ed., 753;
Allison v. Blake, 57 N. J. L. 8, 11; Kimball v. Hendee, 57
N. J. L. 207.
The act of 1864 uses the words "under the Government of
the United States." The Senate is a part of the Government
of the United States. Section 1, article I, of the Constitution;
section 3, article I.
The office of Senator is one of "profit," under the Government of the United States. Section 6, article I, Constitution.
A State cannot superadd qualifications of a Senator to those
prescribed by the Constitution of the United States. In re
Trumbull, Taft Elec. Cases, 148.
If the Senator is a state officer, and the act of 1864 is constitutional, then Congress would have the power to make the
same applicable to the Governor of each sovereign State
and this cannot be done. Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How.
107.
If, therefore, a Senator is not an officer of the United States
in the sense of the Constitution, clearly he may not be coerced,
-or punished for his refusal to obey the requirements of an act
of Congress relative to the discharge of his duties as United
States Senator. United States v. Germain, 99 U. S. 510;
VOL. ceci-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

202 U. S.

United States v. Mouat, 124 U. S.307; United States v. Smith,
124 U. S. 532; In re Greene, 134 U. S. 377; McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 35, 36.
The power of "each House" to judge of the qualifications
of its own members, and to establish ,rules for its proceedings,-to punish members, and, "with the concurrence of
two-thirds," expel a member, is not strictly speaking a legislative, but a judicial function, and, unless the act of 1864 can
be said to be "necessary and proper for carrying into execution" these functions, it is manifestly unconstitutional. Mr.
Madison, The Federalist, vol. 1, p. 273, No. 48; Marbury v.
Madison, 1 Cranch, 391; 1 Tucker on Constitution, 368.
The nature of the implied power exercised as a means must
be legitimate; in other words, no power will be implied as a
means to 'an end which is not legitimate; that is, not within
the powers granted by the Constitution. The ancillary legislation must be a necessary and proper means to accomplish
an end which is clearly constitutional. See Anderson v. Duan,
6 Wheat. 233.
The express power conferred excludes the idea of an " implied power not necessary and proper for carrying into execution the express power.
There is still 'another view of the act of 1864 which would
seem to be 'anunanswerable reason to sustain the contention
that it is unconstitutional. It did not require the concurrence
of two-thirds of either or both Houses to pass it. It might
become a law with the consent of a bare majority .of each
House. While the act does not in terms provide for forfeiture
of office, or expulsion, it requires a judgnient, upon conviction,
that the person convicted shall be "rendered forever* thereafter incapable of holding any office of honor, profit or trust,
under the government of the United States." The effect of
the judgment, if the act is valid, is to expel the Senator from
the Senate. Lowe v. Commonwealth, 3 Mete. (Ky.) 241;
1 Tucker on Constitution, 429.
By the act of 1864 Congress accomplishes a result which

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

355

Argument for the United States.

the Senate may only do "with the concurrence of two-thirds;"
and by an act which is not consistent with the letter and spirit
of the Constitution. See also Von Holst, Constitutional Law,
102.
The act of 1864 defines a political offense. "It is not an
attempt to control the conduct of the citizen, but -that of the
Senatoi'. See Story. on Constitution, § 797.
Mr. Charles H. Robb, Assistant Attorney General, for the
United States:
The plea in bar was not well taken. Count three of the
former indictment charged receipt from Mahaney, whereas
counts three and seven of the present indictment charged receipt from the corporation. But the effect of granting a new
trial at the defendant's instance was to nullify entirely the
proceedings at the former trial, including the verdict of acquittal
on the third count. Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521.
No error was committed in limiting the number of peremptory challenges to three ; under § 819, Rev. Stat. Congress,
having power to do so, denominated the offenses defined by
§ 1782, R. S., misdemeanors. Bannon v. United States, 156
U. S. 454; Reagan v. United States, 157 U. S. 301; Considine
v. United States, 112 Fed. Rep. 342; S. C., 184 U. S. 699; Jewett
v. United States, 100 Fed. Rep. 832; Tyler v. United States,
106 Fed. Rep. 137, 138; United States v. Cojfersmith, 4 Fed.
Rep. 198; United States v. Daubner, 17 Fed. Rep.794.
It not appearing that defendant' exhausted his three challenges, he cannot therefore complain. Insurance Company v.
Hillman, 188 U. S. 208, 211; State v. Fournier, 68 Vermont,
262, 266; Allen v. Waddill, 26 S. W. Rcp. 273; United States v.
Marchand, 12 Wheat. 480; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71.
There was sufficient evidence to go to the jury, the present
record containing- additional evidence to that presented on
-the former trial. The court is not concerned with its conclusiveness.
The unlawful agreement was made at St. Louis, where Bur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

202 U. S.

ton's offer was accepted. Taylor v. Ins. Co., 9 How. 390;
Patrick v. Bowman, 149 U. S. 424; Garr tson v. North Atchison
Bank, 47 Fed. Rep. 867; Phenix Ins. Co. v. Schultz, 80 Fed.
Rep. 343; Hammond on Contracts, § 42, n. 22.
No error was committed in the admission or exclusion of
evidence.
The charge of the court set the entire case, as presented by
the evidence, fairly and substantially before the jury. This
was sufficient. Railway 'Co. v. Whitton, 13 Wall. 270, 290;
Twced's Case, 16 Wall. 516.
The agreement to receive, and the receipt of compensation
constituted two offenses. Clure v. United States, 159 U. S.
590, 595; United States v. Rendskop, 6 Biss. 259; Fed. Cas.
i6, 165.
Section 1782, Rev. Stat., does not interfere with the constitutional rights of the Senate or of the individual Senator. It
prescribes no new qualifications for a Senator, nor does it
interfere with the constitutional control of the Senate over him.
It merely makes it unlawful for a.Senator to do that which
he has no moral nor constitutional right to do.
Senators have no constitutional right to appear for hire and
against the interests of the Government before any Executive
Department, or bureau in any matter in which the United States
is interested. In fact, that is plainly inconsistent with their
Senatorial duties and obligations. With the performance of
their constitutional duties as Senators no act of Congress
could properly interfere. But when they forsake those duties
and engage ,in matters plainly in conflict with their official
obligations they must be amenable to law like other servants
of the Government.
The Constitution itself recognizes this amenability of Senators and Representatives. They are privileged from arrest
during their attendance at the session of their respective
Houses in all cases "except treason, felony, and breach of the
peace." Art. I, sec. 6. These words, Mr. Justice Story said,
are the same as those in which the privilege of members of the

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

English Parliament was expressed, and, as All crimes are
offenses against the peace, the phrase "breach of the peace"
should be construed in accordance with the parliamentary
rule to extend to all indictable offenses. 1 Story on Const.

§865.
The provision of section 5 article II which authorizes each
House to compel the attendance of absent members must be
construed in the light of the above provision, which recognizes that members may be arrested for crime and the Senate
thereby deprived of their attendance.
Plaintiff in error concedes that a Senator is not above the
law-the criminal statutory law-but says that "Congress has
no constitutional power, by legislation, to place any limitations
or restrictions upon his official conduct as a Senator."
Section 1782 places no restriction upon the "official conduct" of a Senator. Section 1782 applies to individuals. It
is aimed at all persons holding positions of trust or confidence
in the service of the United States. The fact that it specifically
refers to a Senator cannot invalidate it. A general law against
bribery or other crime would, counsel admit, include a Senator.
Would the enumeration of Senators among those included in
such a law invalidate it?
The provision of section 1782 that every person offending
against the statute "shall, moreover, by conviction therefor,.
be rendered forever thereafter incapable of holding any office
of honor, trust, or profit under the Government of the United
States," is not open to constitutional objection. It does not
interfere with the authority of the Senate over its members,
because the position of Senator cannot be construed to be an
office under the Government of the United States within the
meaning of that section. Story on Const. § 793.
The decisions of this court hold that those only are officers
of the United States in a constitutional sense and in the sense
in which those words are employed in the statutes, who hold
their places by virtue of an appointment by the President or
a court of law or the head of a Department. United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

Germaine, 99 U. S. 508; United States v. Mouat, 124 U. S. 307;
United States v. Smith, 124 U. S. 532.
There is no distinction between "officers of the United
States" and the language of the statute "office under the
Government of the United States."
If Congress had intended that the effect of conviction of
violating section 1782 should be to unseat a Senator or Representative, it would -have said so. Certainly the court will
not twist the words used from their usual sense so as to render
the statute unconstitutional. Properly read, the statute leaves
the status of a convicted Senator as a member of the Senate
to the determination of that body. They may or may not
expel him, as they see fit. In this respect section 1782 is no
different from any other statute. It was surplusage for the
court to include this declaration of the statute in its sentence.
The disqualification referred to attaches by virtue of the law
itself upon conviction.
If the sentence is defective -in any respect, opportunity
-should be given to correct it. In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 242.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This criminal prosecution is founded -upon the following
sections of the Revised Statutes:
"SEc. 3929. The Postmaster General may, upon evidence
satisfactory to him that any person or company is engaged in
conducting any lottery, gift enterprise, or scheme. for the distribution of money, or of any real or personal property by lot,
chance, 'or drawing of any kind, or that any person or company
is-donducting any other scheme or device for obtaining money
or property of any kind through the mails by means of false
or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, instruct
postmasters at any post office at which registered letters arrive
directed to any such person or comfpany, whether such agent
or representative is acting as an individual or as a firm, bank,
Qrporation, or association of any kind,. to return all such

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

registered letters to the postmaster at the office-at which they
were originally mailed, with the word 'Fraudulent' plainly
written or stamped upon the outside thereof; and all such letters so returned to such postmasters shall be by them returned
to the writers thereof, umder such regulations as the Postmaster
General may prescribe. . . ." By the act of March 2,
1895, c. 191, this section was "extended and made applicable
to all letters or other matter sent by mail." 26 Stat. 465;
28 Stat. 963, §64.
"SEc. 4041. The Postmaster General may, ppon evidence
satisfactory to him that any person or company is engaged in
conducting any lottery, gift enterprise, or scheme for the distribution of money or of any real or personal property by lot,
chance, or drawing of any kind, or that any person or company is conducting any other scheme for obtaining money or
property of any kind through the mails by means of false or
fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, forbid the
payment by any postmaster to said person or company of any
postal money orders drawn to. his or its order, or in his oK its
favor, or to the agent of any such person or company, whether
such agent is acting as an individual or as a firm, bank, corporation, or association of any kind, and may provide by regulation for the return to the remitters of the sums named in
such money orders. . . ." 26 Stat. 465, 466, c. 908.
"SEc. 1782. No Senator, Representative or Delegate, after
his election and during his continuance in office, and no head
of a Department, or other officer or clerk in the employ of the
Government, shall receive or agree to receive any compensation whatever, directly or indirectly, for any services rendered,
or to be rendered, to any person, either by himself or another,
in relation to any proceeding, contract, claim, controversy,
charge, accusation, arrest, or other matter or thing in which
the United States is a-party, or directly or indirectly interested,
before any Department, court martial, bureau, officer, or any
civil, miliiary, or naval commission whatever. Every person
offending against this section shall be d~emed guilty of a mis-

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

demeanor, and shall be imprisoned not more than two years,
and fined not more than ten thousand dollars, and shall, moreover,' by conviction therefor, be rendered forever thereafter
incapable of holding ant office of honor, trust, or profit under
t he Government %ofthe :United States." 13 Stat. 123, c. 119.
The plaintiff in error Was indicted in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of:Missouri for a violation of section .1782, the offense being alleged to have been
committed at St. Louis. The accused was found guilty, and
on writ of error the judgment was reversed by this court and
a..new trial ordered, upon the ground, among others, that according to the facts disclosed in that case the offense charged
was not committed in the State of Missouri where the accused
was tried. Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283.
Subsequently, the defendant was tried under a new indictment (the present one) charging him with certain violations
of section .1782. The indictment contained eight counts.
Stating the case now only in a general way, the first, second,
fourth, sixth and eighth counts charged, in substance, that the
defendant, a'Senator of the United States, had agreed to receive compensation, namely, the sum of $2,500, for services
to be rendered by him fo ,the Rialto Grain and Securities Company, a corporation (to be hereafter called the Rialto Company), in relation to a proceeding, matter. and thing, in which
the',United States :was interested, before the Post Office Department, those counts differing only as to the nature of the
interest, which the United States had in such proceeding,
matter and thingi some of the counts alleging that the United
States was directly, others that it was indirectly, interested in
such. pro~eeding, matter and thing. The third, fifth and
seventh counts charged that the defendant did receive com*pensation to the amount of $500 for the services alleged to
have been so rendered by him, those three counts differing only
as to the nature of thWinterest, whether direct or indirect,
which the United States had in the alleged proceeding, matter
and thing before the Post Office Department.

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

361-

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant demurred to each count. The Government,
at that stage of the prosecution, dismissed the indictment as
to the fourth and fifth counts and the court overruled the
demurrer as to all the other counts. The accused filed a plea
in bar to the third and seventh counts. To that plea the Government filed an answer, to which we will advert hereafter.
A demurrer to that answer .was overruled and, defendant de'dining to plead further, the plea in bar was denied. He was
then arraigned, tried and found guilty on the first, second,
third, sixth, seventh and eighth counts. No judgment or
sentence was pronounced on the first, second and eighth
counts, because they covered the transaction
and offense
mentioned in the sixth count. And as the third count covered
the transaction and offense embraced by the seventh count,
no judgment or sentence was profounced 6n it.
On the sixth count the defendant was sentenced to be imprisoned for six months in the county jail and to pay a fine of
$2,000; on the seventh, to be imprisoned for six months in
the county jail and fined. $500. It was declared or recited in
the judgment on each of those counts that the accused, by his.
conviction, "is rendered forever hereafter incapable of holding
any office of honor, trust or profit under the Government of
the United States."
It will be well to bring out fully the allegations of the two
counts upon which the sentences were based. They will show
the nature of the proceeding, matter or thing before the Post
Office Department, in respect of which the defendant was
indicted.
The sixth count alleged that on the eighteenth day of November, 1902, the defendant was a Senator of the United States
from the State of Kansas, having been theretofore elected for
a term of six years expiring on the fourth day of March, 1907,
and the Rialto Company was a corporation 6ngaged in the
business of buying, selling arid dealing in grain and securities,
having its principal offices at the city of St: Louis, Missouri;
that before and on the above day there was pending before

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of tIm Court.

202 U. S.

the Post Office Department of the United States and before
the then Postmaster General of the said United States a certain proceeding in which the United, States was then indirectly
interested, for determining the question whether that corporation was engaged in conducting a scheme for obtaining money
through the mails of the said United States, by means of false
and fraudulent pretenses, representations, and promises, made
by the said corporation, and whether the said Postmaster General should instruct the postmaater at the post office at St. Louis,
the same then being a post office 4t which registered letters were
then arriving, directed to the said corporation, to return all
such letters to the postmasters at the several post offices at
which they were or should thereafter be originally mailed,
with the word "fraudulent" plainly written or stamped upon
the outside thereof, to be by such postmasters returned to the
.writers thereof under the regulations of the said Post Office
Department, and in the same manner to dispose of all other
letters and matter sent by mail to the said post office directed
to' the said corporation, "all of which the said Postmaster
General might then have lawfully done, upon evidence satisfactory to him that the said corporation was engaged in conducting such a scheme to defraud as that in this count mentioned; and, further, that before and on the day in this count
first aforesaid the facts pertaining to the questions in this
count mentioned were under investigation by the said Post
Office Department and the said Postmaster General and on
that day were still undetermined by the said Postmaster General. And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do further present, that the said Joseph Ralph Burton,
Senator, as in this count of thiv indictment aforesaid, on the
said eighteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred and two, after his said election as such
Senator, and during his continuance in office as such Senator,
at St. Louis, aforesaid, in the Division and District aforesaid,
then well knowing the proceedings in this count mentioned, in
which the United States was then indirectly interested, to be,

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as it then, still was, pending as last aforesaid, before the said
Post Office Department and the said Postmaster General .and
undetermined by the said Postmaster General, and then well
knowing the character of that proceeding, and that the said
United States was then indirectly interested in the same
proceeding as last aforesaid, and then well knowing all the
premises in this count set forth, unlawfully did agree with the
said Rialto Grain and Securities Company, corporation as
aforesaid, by and through its officers, agents -and attorneys,
to receive directly from that corporation through its officers,
agents and attorneys, certain other compensation, to wit, the
sum of twenty-five hundred dollars lawful money of the said
United States, for certain services to be rendered by him,
the said Joseph Ralph Burton, to the said corporation, in relation to the last-mentioned proceeding in which the said United
States was then indirectly interested as aforesaid, before the
said Post Office Department and before the said Postmaster
General, while the same proceeding was and should still be
pending before the said Post Office Department and the said
Postmaster General and still undetermined by .the said Postmaster General, and after his the said Joseph Ralph Burton's
said election as such Senator, and during his continuance in
office as such Senator-that is to say, services consisting of
his the said Joseph Ralph Burton's appearing before, the
said Post Office Department and before the said Postmaster
General, the Chief Post Office Inspector, and the Assistant
Attorney General for said Post Office Department, and
other officers of said Post Office Department, as an agent
of and attorney for the said corporation, and obtaining information for said corporation concerning said proceeding in
this count mentioned, in which the United. States was then
indirectly interested, and by the influence of his presence and
of his office as such Senator, and by statements, representations and persuasion, inducing the said Postmaster General
to believe 'that the said corporation was not conducting any
such scheme to defraud as that last above mentioned, and to

-- OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

put a stop to any further investigation of the questions in this
count mentioned by the said Post Office Department and by
the said Postmaster General, and to refrain from determining
the same adversely to the interests of the said corporation,
and from instructing the said postmaster at the said post office
at St. Louis aforesaid to return the registered letters, and other
letters and matter sent by mail aforesaid to the postmasters
at the post offices at which they were or should thereafter be
originally mailed as aforesaid, with the word 'Fraudulent'
plainly written or stamped upon the outside thereof, as aforesaid, to be by such postmasters returned to the writers thereof
as aforesaid, and also from forbidding the payment to the said
corporation, by the said postmaster at the post office at St.
Louis afor 5idT,-or postal money orders drawn to its order, or
in its favor. And so the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their
oath aforesaid, do say that the said Joseph Ralph Burton, at
the time and place, and in manner and form in this count
of this indictment aforesaid, unlawfully did offend against
section seventeen hundred and eighty-two of the Revised
Statutes of the said United States, against the peace and
dignity of the said United States."
The seventh count .alleged "that on the said twenty-sixth
day of March, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and
three, the said Joseph Ralph Burton, then still being a Senator
of the said United States for the said State of Kansas, as in the
sixth count of this indictment set forth, and having, after his
election as such Senator and during his continuance in office,
to wit, on divers days between the said eighteenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and two,
and the said twenty-sixth day of March, in the year of our
Lord nineteen hundred and three, rendered the services in the
*said sixth count described, to the corporation in that count
mentioned, before the Postmaster General of the said United
'States and before the said Post Office Department, and the
same having been, as he the said Joseph Ralph Burton, when
so rendering the same, well knew, services in reIatiin to the

,,BURTON V. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Cout:

proceeding described in the said sixth count, in which the said
United States was indirectly interested, pending, as he the
said Joseph Ralph Burton also well knew, before the said
Post Office Department and Postmaster General, unlawfully
(lid, after his said election and during his continuance in office,
at St. Lou-is aforesaid, in the said Eastern Division of the said
Eastern District of Missouri, receive directly from the said
corporation through its officers, agents and attorneys, certain
compensation for the same services,, that is to say, five hundred
dollars; be the said Joseph Ralph Burton, when so receiving
such compensation for the said services, well knowing the same
to have been services in relation to a proceeding pending before
a Department and before an officer of the Government of the
said United States, and well knowing the said proceeding'to
have been a proceeding in which the said United States wa
indirectly interested, and one pending before the said Post
Office Department and Postmaster General, and undetermined by the said Postmaster General, as in the said sixth
count is more fully set forth: against the peace and dignity
of the said United States, and contrary to the form of the
statute of the same in such case made and provided."
Motions for new trial and in arrest of ju(gment having been
denied, the case was brouaht here upon writ of error.
1. The first question to be considered is whether section 1782
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. This
question has been the subject of extended discussion by counsel. But we cannot doubt the authority of Congress by legislation to make it an offense against the United States for a
Senator, after his election and during his continuance in office,
to agree to receive or to receive compensation for services to
be rendered or rendered to any person, before a Departuient
of the Government, in relation to a proceeding; matter or thing
in which the United States is a party or directly or indirectly
interested.
The principle that underlies section 1782 is not wholly new
in our legislative history. For instance, by the act of March 3,

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U . S.

1863, 12 Stat. 765, c. 92, Rev. Stat. § 1058, it was declared that
members of Congress shall not practice in the Court of Claims.
Later, Congress by statute declared that no member of or
Delegate to Congress shall directly or indirectly, himself or
by any other person in trust for him, or for his use or benefit,
or on his account, undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole
or in part, any contract or agreement made or entered into
in behalf of the United States, by any officer or person authorized to make contracts on behalf of the United States; and
every person violating this section was to be deemed guilty
-of a misdemeanor, and fined three thousand dollars.- Rev.
Stat. §3739.
Counsel for the accused insists that section 1782 is in conflict with the fundamental idea of the Federal system, namely,
that the Government is one "of -limited powers, with duties
and restrictions imposed, and no authority is lodged anywhere
to change those duties or restrictions, except the power reserved by .the people." The proposition here stated is certainly not to be disputed; for it is settled doctrine, as declared
by Chief Justice Marshall, and often repeated by this court,
that "the Government of the United States can claim no
powers which are not granted to it by the Constitution, and
the powers actually granted must be such as are expressly
given or given by necessary implication." Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 343. We do not, however, perceive that
there has been in the statute before us any departure from
that salutary doctrine.
It is said that the statute interferes, or, by its necessary operation, will interfere, with the legitimate authority of the Senate
over its members, in that a judgment of conviction under it
may exclude a Senator from the Senate before his constitutional term. expires; whereas, under the Constitution, a Senator-s-ec ted to- serve a specified number of years, and the
Senate is made by that instrument the sole judge of the qualifications of its members, and, with the concurrence of twothirds, may expel a Senator from that body. In our judgment

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there is no necessary connection between the conviction of a
Senator of a public offense prescribed by statute and the authority of the Senate in the particulars named. While the
framers of the Constitution intended that each Department
should keep within its appointed sphere of public action, it was
never contemplated that the authority of the Senate to admit
to a seat in its body one who had been duly elected as a Senator,
or its power to expel him after being admitted,, should, in any
degree, limit or restrict the authority of Congress to eMact such
statutes, not forbidden by the .Cnstitution, as the public interests required for carrying into effect the powers granted to
it. In order to promote the efficiency of the public service and
enforce integrity in the conduct of such public affairs as are
committed to the several Departments, Congress, having a
choice of means, may prescribe such regulations to those ends
as its wisdom may suggest, if they be not forbidden by the
fundamental law. It possesses the entire legislative authority
of the United States. *By the provision in the Constitution
that "all legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United. States," it is meait that Congresskeeping within the limits of its powers and observing the restrictions imposed by the Constitution-may, in its discretion,
enact any statute" appropriate to accomplish the objects for
which the National Government was established. A statute
like the one before us has direct relation to those objects, and
can be executed withotit in any degree impinging upon the
rightful authority of the Senate over its members or interfering with the discharge of the legitimate duties of a Senator.
The proper discharge of those duties does not require a Senator
to appear before an executive Department in order to enforce
his particular views, or the views of others, in respect of matters committed to that Department for determination. He
may often do so without impropriety, and, so far as existing
law ,is concerned, may do so whenever he chooses, provided he
neither agrees to receive nor receives compensation for such
services. Congress, when passing this statute, knew, as indeed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

everybody may know, that executive officers are apt, and not
unnaturally, to attach great, sometimes, perhaps, undue, weight

to the wishes of Senators and. Representatives.

Evidently the

statute has for its main object tosecure the integrity of executive action against undue influence upon the part of members
of that branch of the Government whose favor may have much
to do with the appointment to, or retention in, public position
of those whose official action it is sought to control-or direct.
The evils attending such a situation are apparent and are increased when those seeking to influence executive officers are
spurred to action by hopes of pecuniary reward. There can be
no reason why the Government may not, by legislation, protect
each Department against such evils, indeed, against everything, from whatever source it proceeds, that tends or may tend
to corruption or inefficiency in the management of public affairs. A Senator cannot claim immunity from legislation directed to that end, simply because he is a member of a body
which does not owe its existence to Congress, and with whose
constitutional functions there can be no interference. If that
which is enacted in the form of a statute is within the general
sphere of legitimate legislative, as distinguished from executive
and judicial, action, and not forbidden by the Constitution, it
is the supreme law of the land-supreme over all in public stations as well ag.over all the people. "No man in this country,"
this court has said, "is so high that he is above the- law. No
officer of the law'may set. that law at defiance with impunity.
All the officers of the Government, from the highest to the lowest, are creatures of the law, and are bound to obey it." United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 220. Nothing in the relations existing between a Senator, Representative or Delegate in Congress and the public matters with which, under the Constitution, they are respectively connected from time to time,
can exempt them from .the rule of conduct. prescribed
by section 1782. The enforcement of that rule 'will not
impair; or -disturb th6se relations or cripple the power ,6f
Senatos,"Representafives or 'Delegates to meet all righ4tfu:

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

* 202 U. S.

or appropriate demands made upon them as public Servants.
Allusion has been made to that part of the judgment declaring that the accused, by his conviction, "is rendered forever
hereafter incapable of holding any office of honor, trust or profit
under the Government of the United States." That judgment,
it is argued, is inconsistent with the constitutional right of a
Senator to hold his place for the full term for which he was
elected, and operates of its own force to exclude a convicted
Senator from the Senate, although that body alone has the
power to expel its members. We answer that the above words,
in the concluding part of the judgment of convictiom, do nothing more than declare or recite what, in the opinion of the trial
court, is the legal effect attending or following a conviction
under the statute. They might well have been omitted from
the judgment. By its own force, without the aid of such words
in the judgment, the statute makes one convicted Under it incapable forever thereafter of holding any office of honor, trust
or profit under the Government of the United States. But the
final judgment of conviction did not operate, ipso Idcto, to vacate the seat of the convicted Senator, nor compel the Senate
to expel him or to regard him as expelled by force alone of the
judgment. The seat into which he was originally inducted as
a Senator from Kansas could only become vacant by his death,
or by expiration of his term of office, or by some direct action
on the part of the Senate in the exercise of its constitutional
powers. This must be so for the further reason that the declaration in section 1782, that any one convicted under its provisions shall be incapable of holding any office of honor, trust
or profit "under the Government of the United States" refers
only to officers created by or existing under the direct authority
of the National Government as organized under the Constitution, and not to offices the appointments to which are made
by the States, acting separately, albeit proceeding, in respect
of such appointments, under the sanction of that instrument.
While the Senate, as a branch of the Legislative Department,
VOL. ccii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

owes its existence to the Constitution, and participates in passing laws that concern the entire country, its members -are
chosen by state legislatures, and cannot properly be said to
hold their places "under the Government of the United States."
We are of opinion that section 1782 does not by its necessary
operation impinge upon the authority or powers of the Senate
of the United kates, nor interfere with the legitimate functions,
privileges or rights of Senators.
2. It is, next contended that the indictment does'not present
the case of a proceeding, matter or thing in which, within the
meaning of the statute, the United States was a party or interested, nor adequately state the facts constituting the offense.
These objections are, we.think, without merit. Our reading of
the statute and the indictment leads to the opposite conclusion.
The statute makes it an offense for a Senator, 'after his election, and during his continuance in office, to receive or agree
to receive compensation, in any form, from any person, in relation to a proceeding, matter or thing before a Department,
in which the Uiited States is a party, or directly or indirectly
interested. The scope of the statute is, in qur judgment, most
manifest, and the nature of the offense denounced cannot well
be made clearer than it has been made by the words used to
express the legislative intent- The business in'respect of which
the accused is charged to have both agreed to receive, and to
have received, compensation, was plainly a proceeding or matter in which the United States was interested. That such proceeding or matter involved the pecuniary interests of the defendant's client is not denied. That it also involved the use
of the property as well as postal facilities furnished by the
United States for carrying and transporting mail matter must
also be admitted. What- the Post Office Department aimed to
(o in the execution of the acts of Congress and the regulations
established under those acts was to protect the mails of the
United States from being used, in violation of law, to promote
schemes, for obtaining money and property: by means of false
and fraudulent pretenses, representations and promises. That

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute has its sanction in the power of the United States, by
legislation, to-designate what may be carried in the mails and
what must be excluded therefrom; such designation and exclusion to be, however, consistent with the rights of the people,
as reserved by the Constitution. Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S.
727, 732; In re Rapier, 143 U. S. 110; School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; PublicClearingHouse v. Coyne,
194 U. S., 497, 508. In the proceeding, matter and thing before. the Department, with which the defendant was connected
as an attorney for a corporation immediately concerned in the
result, the Postmaster General represented the United States,
and, in the discharge of his official duties, sought to enforce a
law of the United States. The United States was the real party
in interest on one side, while the Rialto Company was the real
party in interest on the other side. If the Postmaster General
did not represent the United States, whom did he represent?
The word "interested" has different meanings, as can be readily ascertained by examining books and the adjudged cases.
4 Wofds and Phrases Judicially Defined, 3692; Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 399. But its meaning here is to be ascertained
by considering the subject matter of the statute in which the
word appears. And it is, we thirik, a mistake to say that the
United' States was not interested, directly or indirectly, in protecting its property, that is, its mails and postal facilities,
against improper and illegal use, and in the enforcement,
through the agency of one of its Departments, of a statute
regulating such use. It would give too narrow an interpretation to the statute to hold that the United States was not interested, directly or indirectly, in a proceeding in the Department having such objects in view. It is:true the business
before the Post Office Department in which the Rialto Company was concerned(l did not assume the form of a Suit in which
there were parties according to the technical rules of pleading.
But it was, nevertheless, in a substantial sense, a proceeding,
matter or thing before an executive Department in which both
the United States and the Rialto Company were interested.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

It is said that, within the meaning of the statute, the United
States is not interested in any proceeding or matter pending
before an executive Department, unless it has a direct moneyed
or pecuniary interest in the result. Under this view, Senators,
Representatives and Delegates in Congress, who are members
of the bar, may regularly practice their profession for compensation before the executive Departments in proceedings, which
if not directly involving the pecuniary interests of the United
States, yet involve substantial pecuniary interests for their
clients as well as the enforcement of the laws of the United
States enacted for the protection of the rights of the public.
Such a view rests upon an interpretation of the statute which
is wholly inadmissible. In our opinion, section 1782 excludes
the possibility of such a condition of things, and makes it illegal
for Senators, Representatives or Delegates to receive or agree
to receive compensation for such services. We may add that
the judgment in Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, proceeded upon the ground that the case then made-and the
present case, as to the facts, is much stronger against the defendant-was embraced by the statute.
It is equally true that the accused was informed with reasonable certainty by the indictment of the nature and cause of
the accusation against him-the two counts hereinbefore 'given
at large, and upon which sentences were pronounced, being as
full as any of the others. The averments of the indictment
were sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare his defense,
and in the event of acquittal or conviction the judgment could
have been pleaded in bar of a second prosecution for the same
offense. The accused was not entitled to more, nor could he
demand that all the special or particular means employed in
the coninission of the offense should be more fully set out in
the indictment. The words of the indictment directly and
without ambiguity disclosed. all the elements essential to the
commission of the offense charged, and, therefore, within the
meaning of the Constitution and according to the rules of pleading, the defendant was informed of the nature and cause of the

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

accusation against him.

United States v. Simmons, 96 U. S.
360, 362; United States v. CarU, 105 U. S. 611; Blitz v. United
States, 153 U. S 308, 315.
3. It is insisted, however, that the court below erred in not
directing the jury to acquit the defendant; in other words, that
the evidence in support of the indictment was so'meager that,
the jury could not properly have found him guilty of any offense. We cannot assent to this view. There was beyond
question evidence tending to establish on one side the defendant's guilt of the charges preferredl against him; on the other
side, his innocence of those charges. It will serve no useful
purpose. to set out all the testimony. It is sufficient to say
that the whole evidence has been subjected to the most careful
scrutiny, and our conclusion is that, the trial court was not
authorized to take the case from the jury and direct a verdict
of not guilty. That course could not have been pursued consistently with the principles that underlie the system of trial
by jury. The case was precminently one for the determination
of a jury. It was for the jury to pass upon the facts; and as
there was sufficient evidence to go to the jury, this court will
not weigh the facts, and determine the guilt or innocence of
the accused by'the mere preponderance of evidence, but will
limit its decision to questions of law. In its charge to the jury
the Circuit Court held the scales of justice in even balance,
saying all that Was necessary to guard the rights of the accused.
Nothing seems to have been omitted that ought to have been
said nor anything said that was not entirely appropriate.
Upon the general question of guilt or innocence and as to the
rules by which the jury should be guided in their consideration
of the case, the Circuit Court, in substance, said that the indictment was not evidence in any sense, but only an accusation
which it was incumbent upon the Government to sustain
by proof establishing guilt beyond a reasonable doubt; that the
presumption of law was that he was innocent of the accusation
as a whole and as to every material element of it, and that such
presumption abided with him from the beginning to the end of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

the trial, and required, at the hands of the jury, an acquittal,
unless a careful, intelligent, fair consideration of the whole evidence, attended by the presumption of innocence, produced in
the niind, beyond a reasonable doubt, the conviction that the
defendant was guilty; and that they, the jury, were the sole
judges of the credibility of the witnesses and of the weight to
be attached to their testimony.
The Circuit Court was equally direct and impartial in what
it said in relation to the particular issues of fact raised by the
indictment and evidence. After explaining the nature of the
proceeding before the Post Office Department, in respect of
which, the indictment alleged, the defendant acted as counsel
for the Rialto Company, for compensation received and to be
received, and after referring, with some fulness, to the specific
charges in the several counts, the court called attention to the
questions that were common to all the counts. It said to the
jury: "Was the defendant a Senator of the United States for
the State of Kansas during the times covered by the transactions under investigation? It is admitted that he was, and
therefore you will have no difficulty in determining that. Was
the Rialto Grain and Securities Company an existing corporation carrying on business of the character .described during the
times covered by the transactions under investigation? There
was proof that it was, and no proof to the contrary, so you will
have no difficulty with that. Was a proceeding pending before
the Post Office Department from November 18, 1902, to
March 26, 1903, to determine whether or not a fraud order
should be issued against that company? If the evidence shows
that the officers of the Post Office Department, at the instance
of private individuals or otherwise, had before that time set
on foot an inquiry to determine whether or not satisftctory
evidence existed that the Rialto Grain and Securities Company
was engaged in conducting a scheme or device for obtaining
money through the mails by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, as charged in the indictment; and if the evidence further shows that that inquiry had

BURTON v. UNITED-.STATES.
202 U. S.

•375

Opinion of the Court.

not been concluded, and was, during the period named, in the
charge of any of the officers of the Post Office Department then
charged with the performance of any duty in respect of such
inquiry-then I charge you that there was such a pending proceeding before the Post Office Department, as described in the
indictment, and is referred to in the statutes before mentioned;
and also that it was a proceeding in which the United States
was both directly and indirectly interested."
It then called -the attention of the jury to the particular
counts charging the defendant with having agreed with the
Rialto Company to receive a stated compensation for services
-to be rendered in the proceeding before named. Touching
those counts- the court said: "Did he make such an agreement?
That he made an agreement of some character to act as counsel
for that company for a stated compensation is conceded. The
real question is whether that agieement included, among other
matters in relation to which he was to serve the company, the
proceeding in the Post Office Department before named. Upon
that question the evidence is conflicting, and it is your duty to
weigh the evidence and determine the truth. If, among other
things, it was intended by the defendant and the Rialto Grain
and Securities Company in making the agreement that he
would: in part consideration for the compensation he was to
receive, appear as agent or attorney of such company before.
the Post Office Department, or any of its officers charged with
any duty or having any authority over such frhud order proceeding, for the purpose or with the intent of influencing or
obtaining action on their part favorable to such company in
said proceeding, whether by way of stopping the investigation
or ultimately preventing the issuance of a fraud order: then
I charge you that the agreement of the defendant was violative of the statute; otherwise it was not. The offense prescribed in the statute consists; in the agreement to receive compensation for the rendition of such services. The mere
agreement to render the services is not an offense. It is the
agreement to receive compensatioa for the rendering of them

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

which constitutes the offense. It should be carefully observed
that the actual rendition of services is not a necessary element of this offense. The offense is complete and the defendant's guilt is established if the evidence shows that he made an
agreement to render such services for compensation."
Coming then to the questions referring exclusively to the
counts charging defendant with having received from the Rialto
Company compensation for services rendered by him to it, the
court said to the jury: "Did he render any service for the
Rialto Grain and Securities Company before the Post Office
Department in the proceeding named? On that question I
charge you that if he appeared as agent or attorney of such
company before the Post Office Department, or any of its officers charged with any duty or having any authority over such
fraud order proceeding, for the purpose or with the intent of
influencing or obtaining action on their part favorable to such
company in said proceeding, and did then, by any statement
or representation respecting the. business in which that company was engaged, or the manner in which it was conducting
such business, endeavor to obtain any action favorable to such
company on the part of the Post Office Department, or any of
its officers, in such fraud order proceeding, then he rendered
service for said company within the meaning of the statute.
And, I further charge you that if he appeared as agent or attorney of such company before the Post Office Department,
or any of its officers charged with any duty or having any
authority over such fraud order proceeding, for the purpose or
with the intent of influencing them in respect to their action
in said proceeding, and did then arrange with the Department,
or any of its officers, that a hearing should be had in respect
of such matter, and then also assured the Department, or any
of its officers, that it was the purpose of said company to comply strictly with the law, and then also arranged that no action
should be taken agixinst said company in said proceeding without his being first notified thereof, that would constitute services within the meaning of the statute. Did he, at St. Louis,

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri, on the twenty-sixth day of March, 1903, receive from
the Rialto Grain and Securities Company any payment of
money as compensation for such services? " Here the court
gave instructions, seven in number, asked by the defendant.
They were not objected to by the Government and need not
be set out.
4. Another point made by the defendant is that he could not
legally be indicted for two separate offenses, one for agreeing
to receive compensation in violation of the statute, and the
other for receiving such compensation. This is an erroneous
interpretation of the statute, and- does violence to its words.
It was-certainly competent for Congress to make the agreement
to receive, as well as the receiving of, the forbidden compensation separate, distinct offenses. The statute, in apt words,
expresses that thought by saying: "No Senator

.

.

.

shall

receive or agree to receive any compensation whatever, directly or indirectly, for any services rendered or to be rend~red," etc. There might be an agreement to receive compensation for services to be rendered without any compensation
ever being in fact made, and yet that agreement would be
covered by the statute as an offense. Or, compensation might
be received for the forbidden services without any previous
agreement, and yet. the statute would be violated. In this
case, the subject matter of the sixth count, which charged an
agreement to receive $2,500, was more extensive than that
charged in the seventh count, which alleged the receipt of $500.
But Congress intended to place its condemnation upon each
distinct, separate part of every transaction coming within the
mischiefs intended to be reached and remedied. Therefore an
agreement to receive compensation was made an offense. So
the receiving of compensation in violation of the statute,
whether pursuant to a previous agreement or not, was made
another and separate offense. There is, in our judgment, no
escape from this interpretation consistently with the established rule that the intention of the legislature must govern
in the interpretation of a statute. "It is the legislature, not

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.-

the court, which is to define a crime, and ordain its punishUnited States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95; Hackment."
feld & Co. v. United States, 197 U. S. 442, 450.
5. The defendant invokes the protection of that clause of the
Constitution of the United States which declares that no person "shall be subject for the same offense to be twice put in
jeopardy of. life or limb." The question aroae in this way.
The first and second counts of the indictment in the former
case charged that the defendant, in violation of the statute,
and on March 26, 1903, unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully and
corruptly took, accepted and received $500 "from the Rialto
Grain and Securities Company," for services rendered in its
behalf in a matter before the Post Office Department in which
the United States was interested. Those two counts differed
only as to the interest, whether direct or indirect, of the United
States in that matter. The third count in the former indictment charged that on March 26, 1903, the defendant unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully and corruptly took, accepted and
received $500 "from one W. D. Mahaney," (described as an
officer and employ6 of the Rialto Company,) as compensation
for.services rendered by defendant to that company in a matter before the Post Office Department in which the United
States was directly interested. The jury in the former case
convicted the defendant on the first and second counts and
acquitted him on the third count; in other words, they found,
in effect, that he received money from the company, but not
from Mahaney. Upon writ of error sued out by defendant this
court reversed the judgment and sent the case back with directions for a new trial. Whether that reversal, upon defendant's own writ of error, had the effect, within the principle of
Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521, to take from him the
benefit of his acquittal on the third count in the former case,
we need not decide. It may be assumed, for the purposes of
this discussion, that it did not.
The defendant pleaded the judgment of acquittal on the
third count in the former indictment in bar of this prosecution

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as based on the third and seventh counts in the present indictment. In its answer to that plea the Government alleged
that while the third and seventh counts of the present indictment are identical in legal effect with counts one and two of
the former indictment, "the offense charged against the defendant in said counts three and seven of the indictment herein
is not identical in legal effect with said count three of said
original indictment." The defendant, as we have seen, demurred to the answer. The deniurrer having been overruled,
and the' defendant declining to plead further, the plea in bar
was overruled and denied.
As no issue was taken upon the answer, by replication, the
question presented is whether, upon the face of the recbrd, as
matter of law simply; the offense charged in the third and
seventh counts of the, present indictment is the same as that
charged in the third count of the former indictment. This
question must be answered in the negative, unless the charge,
in the present indictment, that the money in question was
received by the defendant "from the Rialto Grain and Securities Company" is the same, in law, as the charge, in the former
indictment, that he received it "from one W. D. Mahaney,"
mentioned as an officer and employ6 of the Rialto Grain and
Securities Company. We could not so hold, for the reason that
the two charges do not necessarily import, in law, the same
thing. The only support for the contrary view is found in the
words, added after Mahaney's name, describing him to be an
officer and employ6 of the Rialto Company. But those words
are to be taken only as descriptive of the person or as identifying the person from whom, it was charged, the defendant,
in fact, received the money. It was not alleged in the former
indictment that Mahaney paid the money to the defendant in
behalf of or by direction of the company. This distinction
was manifestly in the mind of the jury in the former case; for,
while they found the defendant guilty of having received forbidden compensation from the company, they found him not
guilty of having received such compensation from Mahaney.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

The defendant may have received such compensation from
Mahancy, but it may not have been paid by direction of the
company.. So, in a legal sense, it may have been received from
the company, although paid by the hands of Mahaney. It
cannot be held otherwise, as matter of law, upon the face of
the two indictments, apart from any evidence. And there was
no evidence in support of the plea or in refutation of the answer. The defendant simply demurred to the answer, thereby
admitting its averments of fact; and, without a replication,
and without any evidence, rested his defense of former jeopardy upon the face of the two indictments. As the effect of
the reversal of. the judgment in the fornier case was to set
aside the judgnent of conviction on the first and second counts
of the original indictment, the way was opened for another trial
on those counts. But the Government elected not to proceed
under that indictment, but to have a new one embodying the
same charge as to the $500 that was made in the former case.
Its right to adopt that course cannot be questioned. In our
judgment, the defendant cannot plead his acquittal upon the
charge of having received forbidden compensation from Mahaney in bar of a prosecution upon the charge of having received such compensation fron the company. A plea of autrefois acqvit must be upon a prosecution for the same identical
offense. 4 B1. 336. It niust appear that the offense charged,
using the words of Chief Justice Shaw, "was the same in law
and in fact. The plea will be vicious, if the offenses charged
in the two indictments be perfectly distinct in point of law,
however nearly they may be connected in fact." Commonwealth
v. Roby, 12 Pick. 496, 504. Looking, as we must, only at the
face of the original and the present indictments, the two
charges must be regarded as separate and distinct. The plea
of former jeopardy in this case presents a technical defense,
and cannot be allowed for the reason that the offense of which
the defendant was heretofore acquitted (toes not plainly appear, as mattoi of law, upon the face of the record, to be identical with the one of which he has been convictec in this case.

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If, at the trial below, under the present indictment, proof had
been made that the $500 was paid by Mahaney, and that he
was an officer and employ6 of the Rialto Company-if the
proof had gone no farther-the jury would not have been authorized to find that the money was received ftn the company;
whereas, the same proof would have sustained the charge in
the third count of the original indictment. This shows that
the two charges were not identical, in lawand that, the same
evidence-would not have sustailied each. It is well settled
that "the jeopardy is not the same when the two indictments
are so diverse as to preclude the same evidence from sustaining both." I Bishop's Crim. Law, § 1051; Wilson v. State, 24
Connecticut, 57, 63, 64. For these reasons we hold that the
court below properly sustained the answer to the plea and, the
defendant not pleading further, the plea in bar was properly
overruled and denied.
6. An important point remains to be considered. It relates
to the jurisdiction of the court below to try the defendant for
the crime alleged.
The Constitution requires that the trial of all crimes against
the United States shall be held in the State and the District
where such crimes shall have been committed. Const. Art. 3,
§ 2, Sixth Amendment. The contention of the accused is that
in no view of the evidence can he be said to have committed
any offense in the State of Missouri; consequjently, the Federal court, holden at St. Louis, was without jurisdiction, under
the Constitution, to try him. The contention of the Government is that the alleged offense was committed at St. Louis,
and that it was proper to try the defendant in the District embracing that city.
The Circuit Court thus instructed the jury: "If there was
an agreement on the part of the defendant to receive compensation for services, to be rendered by him in such a fraud order
proceeding, was the agreement made within the jurisdiction of
this court-in other words, was it made in St. Louis, Missouri?
Upon this question I charge you that if s'uch an agreement was

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

negotiated or tentatively affected at some other place, but with
the understanding on the part of the defendant that it should
be communicated to the Rialto Grain and Securities Company
at St. Lou's, Missouri, to be there accepted or ratified by that
company before it should become effective, and if thereafter,
in pursuance of such understanding the proposed or tentative
agreement was communicated to the Rialto Grain and Securities Company at St. Louis, Missouri, and was there accepted
and ratified by that company without any change in its terms,
then the agreement was made at St. Louis, Missouri, and within
the jurisdiction of this court. The fact that'the defendant was
notified of such acceptance or ratification by telegram or letter
sent to him at Washington would not alter this result, if the
circumstances under which the negotiations were had and the
tentative agreement was made were such that it can be reasonably inferred that he contemplated and assented to notice
of the acceptance of his proposition being communicated to
him through that medium."
The jury found that the alleged agreement was consummated, that is, completed, at St. Louis. This finding was
clearly justified by the evidence. There was proof that on the
seventeenth day of November, 1902, the general counsel of the
Rialto Company-while he and the accused were in Illihois
traveling together from St. Louis to Chicago-explained to
the latter the affairs and condition of the company and invited
the defendant to become counsel with him for the company;
that, as the result of that conference and invitation, the defendant, being in Illinois at the time, proposed or offered to
become such counsel on the basis of an employment for not
less than five months at a monthly salary of $500; that he was
then informed that only the company could conclude an arrangement as to compensation; that he contemplated, at the
time, that his offer as to employment and compensation would
be submitted for him to the company at St. Louis; that upon
the return of the company's counsel to St. Louis on the morning of Novmiber 18, 1902, he at once communicated to the

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rialto company, at that city, the above offer or proposal, of
the defendant; that the company promptly accepted the offer,
of which fact the defendant was immediately informed by telegram of November 18, 1902, sent from St. Louis, and addressed
to him at Washington, by the representative of the company;_
that such acceptance was confirmed by a letter written and
duly mailed at St. Louis on the same day, in which letter counsel, speaking for the company, said: "I hope you received my
message to the effect that this company accepts your terms to
,act as counsel at a salary of $500 per month, and service to
-begin immediately, that is, of this date, November 18, 1902;
'that under date of November 20, 1902, by letter addressed to
the Rialto counsel at St. Louis, the defendant acknowledged
receipt by due course of mail of the above letter of November 18,
and stated that he had called that morning at the Department,
on behalf of the company, and had found that, two complaints
had been filed there against it, which had been sent out on
November 7 for investigation; that the letter last referred to
thus concluded: "I .have arranged with the Department to
be advised in case any complaints are made against your company, and have arranged for a hearing if any hearing should
become necessary. I have assured the Department that it is
the purpose of your company. to comply strictly with the law,
and that it is your desire to remain at all times in perfect harmony with the Department. No action of any kind will be
taken against you without my first being notified, and every
opportunity for a full explanation or hearing will be had. In
return, if agreeable, you may make remittance for my first
month's pay."
The. evidence further tended to show that during the five
months following the acceptance of his offer at St. Louis,
the defendant acted as counsel for the Rialto Company
before the Post Office Department when requested or when it
was necessary, and received from the company a salary of $500
per month for his services to it-the salary for each of the first
four months being paid by the company's check, drawn at

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

St. Louis upon a St. Louis bank and made payable to the defendant's order, which check was sent from St. Louis to the defendant at Washington. The last month's salary of $500 was
paid in cash to defendant at St. Louis, in the company's office,
on March, 26, 1903, on which date, with his own consent, he
was discharged as the company's attorney, his services being
no longer required. The evidence also tended to show that
during the whole period of the defendant's employment and
service as the company's attorney he relied or counted upon
the acceptance of his offer on the eighteenth day of November,
1902, as evidencing an agreement then concluded between him
and'the company in respect of compensation. He received the
letter of November 18, by due course of mail, and does not
deny having received the telegram previously sent to him, the
same day, on the sane subject. Nothing was said or done by
him during the whole period of his service as the company's
counsel that was inconsistent with the agreement established
by the evidence. All that he did, said or wrote was consistent
with the idea that he regarded the acceptance at St. Louis, of
his offer, as completing the agreement between him and the
company. From the time of such acceptance he was entitled,
so far as. the agreement was concerned, to demand, and
he in fact received, the stipulated salary.
In view of the evidence and of all the circumstances, was
the jury warranted in finding that the alleged agreement was
concluded at St. Louis? Manifestly so, we think. Although
this is a criminal prosecution, that question must be deternmined by the principles recognized in the general law of contracts as to the time when an agreement between parties takes
effect and becomes binding upon them. It is to be taken as
settled law, both in this country and in England, in cases of
contracts between parties distant from each other, but communicating in modes recognized in commercial business, that
when an offer is made by one person to another, the minds of
the parties meet and a contract is to be deemed concluded,
when the offer is accepted in reasonable time, either by tele-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

gram duly sent in the ordinary Way, or by letter duly posted
to the proposer, provided either be done before the offer is
withdrawn, to the knowledge of or upon notice to the other
party. A leading authority on the general subject is Tayloe
v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co., 9 How. 390, 399, 400. It appeared in that case that a fire insurance company made an offer by mail to insure property upon certain terms. The offer
was accepted in a letter promptly mailed to the proper address
of the company. The inquiry arose as to the time when- the
contract of insurance was to be deemned completed. This court
held that, according to the settled principles of law governing
contracts entered into by correspondence between parties
distant from each other, the contract became complete when
the letter accepting the offered terms was mailed, the offer not
having been then withdrawn. The court said: "We are of
opinion that an offer under the circumstances stated, prescribing the terms of insurance,, is intended, and is to be deemed,
a valid undertaking on the part of the company, that they will
be bound, according to the terms tendered, if an answer is transmitted in due course of mail, accepting them; and that it cannot be withdrawn, unless the withdrawal reaches the party to
whom it is addressed before his letter of reply announcing the
acceptance has been transmitted."
In Patrickv. Bowman, 149 U. S. 411, 424, the court, referring
to the Tayloe case, again held that when an offer is made and
accepted by the posting of a letter of acceptance the contract
is complete according to the terms of the offer.
Kent says: "In creating the contract the negotiation may
be conducted by letter, as is very common in mercantile transactions; and the contract is complete when the answer con-,
taining the acceptance of a distinct proposition is dispatched
by mail or otherwise, provided it be done with due diligence,
after the receipt of the letter containing the proposal, and before any intimation is received that the offer is withdrawn.
Putting the answer by letter in the mail containing the acceptance, and thus placing it beyond the control of the party, is
VOL. cc--25

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

valid as a constructive notice of acceptance. An offer by letter,
or by a special agent, is an authority revocable in itself, but
not to be revoked without notice to the party receiving it, and
never after it has been executed by an acceptance. There
would be no certainty in making contracts through the medium of the mail, if the rule were otherwise." 2Kent's Com.
477.
The authorities to the same effect are too numerous to be
cited, but we refer particularly to Vassar v. Camp, 11 N. Y.
441, 445;. Mactier v. Frith, 6 Wend. 103; Adams v. Lindsell,
1 B. & Aid. 681; Imperial Land Co. of Marseilles, 7 L. R. Ch.
App: 587; Household Fire Ins. Co. v. Grant, L. R. 4 Exch* Div.
216, 218; Perry v. Mt. Hope Iron Co., 15 R. I. 380, 381; Wheat
v. Cross, 31 Maryland, 99, 103; Averill v. Hedge, 12 Connecticut, 424; Chiles v. Nelson, 7 Dana, 281;, Washburn v. Fletcher,
42 Wisconsin, 152; Minnesota Oil Co. v. Collier Lead Co.,
4 Dill. 431, 434; Maclay v. Harvey, 32 Am. Rep. 35, 40, note and
authorities cited; Levy v. Cohen, 4 Georgia, 1, 13; Falls v.
Gaither, 9 Port. 605, 612; 2 Redfield on Law of Railways, 338,
339; Pomeroy on Contracts, 95; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 9th
ed. 483; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 257, note; Metcalf on Contracts, 17; Thompson on Law of Electricity, §§ 425-478; Scott
and Jarnogin, Law of Telegraphs, § 295 et seq.; Addison on
Contracts, 16, 17.. Whether the acceptance by the Rialto
Company of the defendant's offer is to be regarded as effectively made by the telegram duly sent to him, or only when the
letter addressed to him by the Rialto counsel was duly mailed
at St. Louis, or in both ways-in any event, the acceptance
promptly and adequately occurred on the eighteenth of
November, 1902, at St. Louis, on which day and at which
place it is to be deemed that the minds of the parties metthe agreement becoming complete the moment of the acceptance of defendant's offer, without the necessity of formal notice
to the company that Burton had received information of its
acceptance of his offer.
But this, the defendant insists, is not enough to show that

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the alleged offense was committed at St. Louis. Counsel would
seem to contend that the physical absence of the accused from
St. Louis, when the offer -was received by the company and
when the agreement was concluded, rendered it impossible that
he could have committed the alleged offense at that city. In
substance, the contention is that an individual could not, in
law or within the meaning of the Constitution, commit a crime
within a StatW in which he is not physically present at the time
the crime is committed.
The constitutional requirement is that the crime shall be
tried in the State and District where committed, not necessarily in the State or District where the party committing it happened to be at the time. This distinction was brought out and
recognized in Palliser's case, 136 U. S. 257, 265. Palliser was
indicted in the District Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut for violating certain statutes relating to
the disposal of postage stamps and forbidding postmasters not
only to dispose of postage stamps in the payment of debts or
in the purchase of commodities or to pledge them, but also to
sell or dispose of them except for cash. By letter written and
mailed at New York and addressed to a postmaster in Connecticut, Palliser made to that officer an offer of contract which
could not have been accepted by the latter without violating
the above statutes. This court held that the offer in Palliser's
letter was a tender of a contract with the intent to induce the
postmaster to sell postage stamps for credit in violation of his
duty, and that the case, therefore, came within section 5451 of
the Revised Statutes, providing that "every person who promises, offers,-or gives or causes or procures to be promised, offered or given, any money or other thing of value, or makes or
tenders any contract, undertaking, obligation, gratuity or security for the payment of money, or for the delivery or conveyance of anything of value to any officer of the United States,
.
with intent to influence him to commit or aid in
committing, or to collude in or allow any fraud, or make opportunity for the commission of any fraud on the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

202 U. S.

S

or to induce him to do or omit to do any act in violation of his
lawful duty, shall be punished" by fine and imprisonment.
The question arose whether Palliser, who did not go into
Connecticut, could be punished in that State for the offense
alleged against him. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray,
said: "The petitioner relies on those provisions of the Constitution of the United States which declare that in all criminal
prosecutions the accused shall have the right to be tried by an
impartial jury of the State and District wherein the crime
shall have been committed. Art. 3, § 2; Amendmhents, art. 6.
But the right thereby secured is not a right to be tried in the
District where the accused resides, or even in the District in
which he is personally at the time of committing the crime, but
in the District 'wherein the crime shall have been committed.'
When .a crime is committed partly in one District
and partly in another it must, in order to prevent an absolute
failure of justice, be tried in either District, or in that one which
the legislature may designate; and Congress has accordingly
provided, that 'when any offense against the United States is
begun in one judicial District and completed in any other, it
shall be deemed to have been committed in either, and may be
dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined and punished in
either District, in the same manner as if it had been actually
and wholly'committed therein.' Rev. Stat. § 731." In that
case thecourt said it was universally admitted that when a shot
fired in one jurisdiction strikes a person in another jurisdiction,
the offender may be tried where the shot takes effect.
If the sending by the defendant to the Rialto Company from
Chicago to 9t. Louis of the offer above referred to was the beginning of negotiations for an agreement in violation of section 1782, the agreement between the parties was completed
at the time of the acceptance of the defendant's offer at St.
Louis on November 18, 1902. Then the offense was committed,
and it was committed, at St. Louis, notwithstanding the defendant was not personally present in Missouri when his biffer
was accepted and the-agreement was completed.

.BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The principle announced in Palliser's case wa8 reaffirmed in
Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 207, in Which it- was held
that the District Court of the United States in Illinois had
jurisdiction to try -one charged with having violated the statute relating to the sending of lottery matter in the mails, in
that he had unlawfully caused to be delivered to a certain person in that District lottery circulars conveyed by nhail in a
sealed letter that he had deposited in the mail at New York,
addressed to and to be delivered to such person in Illinois. The
fact that the -accused was in New York when the loitery circulars Were mailed, and not personally present in Illinois when
the offense was completed by the delivery there of the lottery
circulars to the person to whom they were sent, was held to be
immaterial and not to defeat the jurisdiction of the Federal
court in Illinois to -try the accused.
It cannot be' maintained, according to the adjudged cases,
ihat the personal absence of the defendant Burton from St.
Louis, at the time his offer was accepted, and when the agreement -between him and the company was completed and became binding, as between the parties, deprived the Federal
court there of jurisdiction. He sent his offer to St. Louis with
the intent that it should be there accepted and consummated.
Having been completed at that city in conformity with the
intention of both parties, an offense Was, in the eye of the law,
committed there, and when the court below assumed jurisdiction of this case it did-not offend the constitutional requirement
that a crime against the United States shall be tried in the
State and .District where it was committed.
Other questions were discussed by counsel, but we have
alluded to all involving the substantial rights of the accused
that are mentioned in their briefs of points and authorities,
and which we deem it necessary to notice.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concurs in the judgment based on
the count charging the receipt of forbidden compensation, but
does not concur 'n the judgment on the count charging simply
an agreement to receive compensation. He is of opinion that

.390

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER,

WHITE and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

the agreement to receive and the receipt of compensation con,stitute under the circumstances of this case but one offense.
J .udment
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWEt,

with whom MR. JUSTICE WHITE and

MR. JUSTICE PCKHAM eoncurred, dissenting.
A conviction of plaintiff in error on an indictment charging
substantially the same offenses as are charged in the present
case was reversed by this court. 196 U. S. 283. In the opinion then filed it was stated that four Justices of this court
(the writer of this being among the number) were of the opinion that the matters charged against the defendant Wei not
made offenses by the statute under which the indictment was
found. Nothing was said in that opinion in respect to this
matter beyond the simple statement of the conclusions of the
several Justices. As one of the four I think the importance
bf the case justifies me in stating the reasons which led to that
conclusion, and which induces belief that the present conviction is wrongful.
The statute (sec. 1782, Rev. Stat.) forbids a Senator or other
official of the Government to "receive or agree to receive any
compensation whatever, directly or indirectly, for any services
rendered, or to be rendered, to any person, either by himself
or another, in relation to any proceeding, contract, claim, controversy, charge, accusation, arrest, or other matter or thing
in which the United States is a party, or directly or indirectly
interested, before any Department, court-martial, bureau,
officer, or any civil, military, or naval commission whatever."
It was charged in the indictment that there was pending in the
Post-Office Department a proceeding to inquire whether the
Rialto Grain and Securities Company was conducting a scheme
for obtaining money by false pretenses through the mails of
the United States and whether a fraud order, as it is called,
should be issued against said company, and that the defendant, as a Senator of the United States, unlawfully agreed to

BURTON v. UNJTED STATES.
'202 U. S.

BREWER, WHITE

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

receive from the said corporation compensation for services
rendered by him in relation to such proceeding before that
Department. It was not charged that the United States was
a party to the proceeding, nor that it would either make or
lose any money or property, whatever might be the result, but
only that it was directly and indirectly interested. The question is therefore distinctly presented whether a proceeding in
one of the Departments of the Government, in which it does
not appear that the United States is pecuniarily interested in
the result, will neither make nor lose by the issue of the proceeding, whatever it may be, is one in which it is "directly or
indirectly interested." Unless the statute by* clear intendment includes the transaction, any extension beyond its meaning so as to include the transaction would be, under the elementary rule governing the interpretationof criminal statutes,
simply judicial legislation, as it would be by judicial construction making that a crime which Congress has not so made,
and thereupon imposing punishment. United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76; Sarlls v. United States, 152 U. S. 570;
United States v. Harris, 177 U. S. 305. There is a certain
broad sense in which the word "interest" is sometimes used,
which describes the relation which the Government has to the
acts of all its officials, to all proceedings in courts or in Departments, and indeed to the conduct of all its citizens. It is interested in seeing justice and righteousness obtain everywhere.
It is interested in seeing that no wrongful conduct shall prevail. But so is every official and every citizen interested.
It is not an interest which separates and distinguishes the
Government from the citizens, but it is that interest which all
have, whether government or citizens, in the orderly and just
management of affairs, in honorable and right living. It is
that interest which a father or head of a family has in the good
conduct of all the members of his family. But the word "interest" as found in the law books refers to pecuniary profit and
loss, and tMat Congress used the word "interested" in its common legal acceptation is as clear and certain as anything can be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER, WHITE

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

It is well to inquire in the first place whether the word
"interest" or "interested" has a settled legal meaning. A
leading case is that of Inhabitants of Northampton v. Smith,
11 Met. (Mass.) 390, in which was involved the construbtion

of a statute of Massachusetts which provided that-when a
judge of probate was interested in any case within his jurisdiction the case should be transferred to the most ancient
adjoining county. The probate judge transferred the case
on the ground that he was one of the inhabitants of the
town of Amherst, and that there were in the will which was
offered for probate many bequests to charitable purposes
for the: benefit of persons described as 'dwelling in the eight
towns enumerated, of which Amherst was one. Mr. Chief
Justice Shaw, delivering the opinion of the court, said
(p. 394'):

"If the term 'interest' were used in the loose sense it sometimes is, consisting in a strong and sincere desire to promote
all enterprises for the advancement of learning, philanthropy,
and general charity, or a similar interest,, with all good men,
to repress and put'down pernicious and mischievous schemes,
no man could be found, fit to be intrusted with the administration of justice; for no man can be exempt from such
interests."
And again (p. 395):
"2. It'must be a pecuniary or proprietary interest, a relation by which, as a-debtor or creditor, an heir or legatee, or
otherwisey he will gain or lose something by the result of the
proceedings, in contradistinction to an interest *of feeling or
sympathy or bias, which would disqualify a juror. Smith v.'
Bradstreet, 16 Pick. 264.
"3. It must be certain, and not merely possible or contingent.
.Hawes v. Humphrey, 9 Pick. 350; Wilbraham v. County Commissioners, 11 Piclk. 322; Danvers v. County Commissioners,
2 'Met 185. It must be direct and personal, though, such a
.Nrsonal interest may result from a relation, which the judge
1014os as the member of a town, parish or other corporation,

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

BREWER, WHITE

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

where it is not otherwise provided by law, if such corporation
has a pecuniary or proprietary interest in the proceedings.
"It may be, and probably is, very true, as the human mind
is constituted, that an interest in a question or subject matter,
arising from feeling and sympathy, may be more efficacious
in influencing the judgment, than even a pecuniary interest;
but an interest of such a character would be too vague to serve
as a test by which to decide so important a question as that
of jurisdiction; it would not be capable of precise averment,
demonstration and proof; not visible, tangible or susceptible of
being put in issue and tried; and therefore not certain
enough to afford a practical rule of action."
/ In McGrath v. People ex rel. Linnemeyer, 100 Illinois, '464,
it was held that:
"The State is not 'interested, as a-party or otherwise,' in
a proceeding in the nature of a quo warranto to try the title
of a person to an office into which it was alleged he had intruded, in any such sense as would give the Supreme.Court
jurisdiction to hear. an appeal in such a proceeding ,directly
from the trial court, under section 88 of the Practice Act.
The interest which the State must have in a cause, within the
meaning of this section, in order to entitle' either party to
bring it directly to the Supreme Court from the trial court,
.is a. substantial interest-as, a monetary interest."
In Evans v. Eaton, 7 Wheat., 356, a patent' case, the question was whether a certain witness was competent, the alleged
objection being that he was interested, because -he might use
the alleged invention if the patent was adjudged void, and
Mr.. Justice Story, speaking for the court, said (p. 425):
"The special notice in this case asserts matter, which if true,
and found specially by the, 'jury, might authorize the court
to adjudge the patent void; and it is supposed that this constitutes such an interest in Frederick in the event of the cause
that he is therebyrendered incompetent. But in this respect
Frederick 'stands in the same situation as every other person
in the community. If the patent is declared void, the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER, WHITE

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., disseilting.

202 U. S.

vention may be used by me whole community, and all persons
may be said to have an interest in making it public property.
But this results from a general principle of law, that a party
can take nothing by a void patent; and so far as such an interest goes, we think it is to the credit and not to the competency of the witness."
In State v. Sutton, 74 Vermont, 12, the case and the ruling
is disclosed by the following quotation from the opinion:
"This is an indictment under section 5072 of the Vermont
Statutes, for defaming this court, and a judgment thereof, and
the judges of the court as to said judgment. It is objected that
Judge Watson, who sat below, was disqualified by reason of
interest in the event of the cause or matter, for that he is one
of the judges alleged to have been defamed. It is a pecuniary
interest that disqualifies, and Judge Watson is no more interested in .this case in that respect than he is in every other
criminal case that he tries, and that interest is too small for
the law's notice. State v. Batchelder, 6 Vermont, .479. It is
said that a judge defamed would be deeply interested to have
the respondent convicted, not only that he might be severely
punished, but also for the aid it might afford him in the prosecution and maintenance of a civil action for damages. But
such an interest does not disqualify."
In Foreman v. Town of Marianna, 43 Arkansas, 324, it was
held that a judge who was a taxpayer in a town was not dis:qualified from sitting in a case relating to the annexation of
certain territory to the town, the court saying (p. 329):
"A general interest in a public proceeding, which a judge
feels in common with a mass of citizens, does not disqualify.
If it did, we might chance to have to go out of the State at
times for a judge. The 'interest' which disqualifies a judge
under the constitution is not the kind of interest which one
feels in public proceedings or public measures. It must be a
pecuniary or property interest, or 'one affecting his individual
rights; and the liability or pecuniary gain or relief to the
judge must occur upon the event of the suit, not iesult re-

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

BREWER, WHITE

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

motely, in the future, from the general operation of laws.and
government upon the status fixed by the decision."
In Taylor v. Commissioners of Highways &c., 88 Illinois,
526, the question was who had the right to appeal from the
decision of the commissioners of highways in laying out a new
road or vacating an old one, and the court said:
"The word 'interested' must receive a reasonable construction, such as will, on the one hand, protect those who have a
direct and substantial interest in the matter, and on the other
hand, protect the commissioners of highways from unnecessary
litigation in defending their action as such, at the suit of persons who may .imagine they have an interest, when in fact they
have no such interest as was contemplated by the legislature.
Every citizen of a county, in one sense, has an interest in the
public highways. So, too, it may be said, and properly, that
every citizen of the State has an interest in the highways in
the different counties of the State. If, therefore, the language
of the statute is to be interpreted literally, an appeal might
be taken by any citizen of the State. But we apprehend it
was not the intention of the legislature that the word 'in,
terested' should receive such a liberal construction. It was,
doubtless, intended to give the righit of appeal to those persons who had a direct and pecuniary interest not shared by
the public at large, such as owned land adjoining the new
road laid out or the old one vacated."
In Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company v.
Kellogg, 54 Nebraska, 138, in deciding whether a trial judge
was disqualified, this was the ruling:
" 'A judge is disqualified from acting as such
.
in
any case wherein he is . . . interested.' But the word

'interested,' found in this section of the statute, probably
means pecuniarily interested, or, at least, it means that a judge,
to be disqualified from hearing a case, must bein such a situation with reference to it or the parties that he will gain or lose
something ty the result of the action on trial. It is not claimed
that Judge Beall will'gain.or lose anything from the result of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER, WHITE. and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting,

202 U. S.

this 'atibn. It is not pretendedthat he has aniy p'ecuniary
interest in the matter. The argument seems to be that, because he rendered a law judgment, he would naturally be desirous that the same should be-sustained, aid tbat, therefore,
his inclination would be to defeat this suit. It can never be
presumed that a judge will permit his desires or inclinations
to control his decision in any manner, and that he tried the
case and rendered the judgment which is sought to be vacated
by this action does not render him interested and disqualified
-within the meaning of said section of the statute."
See also Commonwealth v. O'Neal, 6 Gray, 343; Sauls v.
Freeman, 24 Florida, 209; Bowman's Case, 67 Missouri, 146.
In Bouvier's Law Dictionary, vol. 1, p. 651, "interest"
is
defined:
"The benefit which a person has in the matter about to be
decided and which is in issue between the parties. By the
term benefit is here undertsood some pecuniary or other advantage, which if obtained would increase the witness's estate,
or some loss, which would decrease it."
In Black's Law Dictionary the definition is (p. 636):
"A relation to the matter in controversy, or to the issue of
the suit, in the nature of a prospective gain or loss, which
actually does, or presumably might, create a bias or prejudice
in the mind, inclining the person to favor one side or the
ofther."
If, the word "interested" was not used in this section in
this ordinary legal sense, the words "in which the United
States is a party, or directly or indirectly interested" are
surplusage, because in respect to every procbeding' before a
Department or other tribunal the United States as parens
patriwe has an interest in what Chief Justice Shaw calls the
"loose" sense of the term. Indeed, what significance is there
in inserting the words from " contract" to "interested" inclusive
unless some distinct limitation was'intended? If the language
was "in relation to any proceeding before any Department,
court-martial," etc., it would express the intent to exclude

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

BREWER, WHITE and PEcKHm, JJ.,

dissenting.

Senators from appearance for compensation in any and all
matters before the Departments. Inserting the clause above
referred to obviously means a limitation, and no other linitation is suggested except that which limits it to matters in which
the Government is pecuniarily interested. Neither do the
words "or any other. matter or thing" enlarge the scope of
the prohibition so as to take in matters of a different.nature.
The rule of construction regarding the effect of such words
when following an enumeration of subjects is that they are
to be held as meaning any other matter or thing of a like or
similar nature to those already named, so that all subjects
of that kind may be included, and none escape by reason of
not being specially named. They do not open the statute to
all kinds of matters or things not of the same nature as those
already named.
Otherwise there would be no sense in
the prior enumeration. Hermance v. Supervisors &c., 71
N. Y. 481;' People v. New York &c. Ry. Co., 84 N. Y. 565;
Thames &c. Insurance Company v. Hamilion, 12 App. Cas.
484.
Doubtless the Government is charged with the supervision
of the action of all its officials, but that supervision does not
of itself create a pecuniary interest. This court has a supervising control of the lower Federal judicial tribunals. We are
interested in seeing that full justice is done in all cases therein.
But that duty of supervision and review creates no pecuniary
interest, and does not disqualify a single one of us from participating in the consideration of this case.
If it be said that the Government is pecuniarily interested
in the postage the amount of which might be affected by the
issue of a fraud order, it is enough to say that there is no proof
of any such interest. Further, postage is received in payment
for services rendered in trauportation. If no services are rendered no postage is received): The issue of a fraud order does
not put a stop to the carrying of letters. It simply stops the
delivery. It may be that when know.-ledge of the issue of a
fraud orders becomes widespread, the number of letters may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
B3REWER, WHITE

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

202 U. S.

diminished, but as heretofore said, diminishing the amount of
mail matter diminishes likewise the cost thereof. The Government is no mor interested in an increase or diminution of the
amounts received by railroad and other carriers for transporting the mails, or those received by stamp contractors for
the manufacture of stamps, than it is in the fees received by
marshals, clerks, and other officers for services rendered to
individuals. In any event, opposing a fraud order would not;
in the language of the chairman of the House Committee on
the Judiciary, hereinafter quoted, be a suit against the Gov.ernment.
Again, the history of the passage of the bill which culminated
in this statute emphasizes the views already expressed. The
bill was introduced into the Senate December 23, 1863, by
Senator Wade. As prepared it forbade the appearance of a
Senator or member of the House of Representatives in any
court as well as Department, etc. On February 10, 1864, the
Committee on the Judiciary reported in favor of striking out
the following words (p. 555):
"No member of the Senate or of the House of Representatives
of the United States shall, during his continuance in office,
hereafter appear or act as counsel, attorney, or agent in any
cause or proceeding, civil or criminal, in any court, civil,
criminal, military, or naval, or before any commission, in
which the United States is a party or directly or indirectly
interested, or receive any compensation of any kind, directly
or indirectly, for services of any description rendered by himself or another in relation to any such cause or proceeding;"
and they were stricken out.
On page 561 is this statement by Senator Trumbull, the
chairman of the committee:
"This is not a bill to prevent attorneys from practicing in
courts of law, but it is a bill to prevent Representatives and
Senators in Congress and officers of the Government who are
paid for their services from receiving a compensation for adv6cating claims in the Departments and before the bureaus

BURTON v. UNITED STATES.
202 U. S.

BREWER, WHITE,

and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

of the Government, and before courts-martial. That is the
particular question that is pending."
On p. 2773 in the proceedings of 'the House it appears:
"Mr. Wilson, from the Committee on the Judiciary, reported
back Senate bill No. 28, relating to members of Congress,
heads of Departments and other officers of the Government.
The bill was read. It prescribes penalties for members of
Congress, heads of Departments, or other officers engaging as
attorneys or counselors in suits against the. Government.
The bill was ordered to a third reading; and was accordingly
read the third time and passed."
While much weight must not be given to the declarations
of individual Senators, those which are embodied in the reports of the chairman of the judiciary committees are certainly
entitled to consideration, and they' show clearly that the intent
of Congress in this enactment was to prevent Senators and
other officials of the Government from receiving compensation
for assisting in the prosecution of claims against the Government. It would be the height of absurdity to suppose anyone
believed that a Senator' should be debarred from the*right of
appearing in any court in cases in which the Government is
without a pecuniary interest, and yet that was'the scope of
the bill as originally presented, if the present construction of
the statute is sustained.
Further, while it may be true that executive officers are apt
to give undue weight to the wishes of Senators, yet there is
nothing in this statute to prevent a Senator from exerting all
his influence over them. He may prosecute any claims in behalf of his constituents or Others, even though the Government is directly and largely pecuniarily interested. He may
appear in any matter or proceeding pending before one of the
Departments, and there is nothing in the statute to prohibit it.
The only restriction is that he must himself have no pecuniary
interest in the matter. The denunciation is against his receiving or agreeing to receive compensation for his services.
Is it not reasonable to believe that if pecuniary interest on his

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREwER, WHITE

and PEc

HAM, JJ.,

dissenting.

202 U. S.

part is the only bar to his action a like pecuniary interest on
the part of the Government is that interest on the other side
intended by the statute?
It is said the language of the section is "directly or indirectly interested," but that does not change the fact that
the Government must be interested, and interested, as I have
shown, refers to some pecuniary. interest. It is directly interested when as the result of the proceeding it mhay make
or lose some of its property, as where a claim is prosecuted
in the Department for a tract of land, or for the allowance of
-a contract to a higher rather than to a lower bidder. It is
indirectly interested when the effect of the ruling may result
in pecuniary loss to the Government in some other case to be
thereafter presented to the Department. It may be that in a
pending case the Government is guaranteed against loss, and
yet if a certain ruling is established as the ruling of the Department it may affect future cases in which there is 'no such indemnity to the Government, and in those cases it would be
indirectly-initerested. But whatever the line of demarkation
between "direct" and "indirect" results, the statute is clear
that the Government must be "interested."
Other matters of moment have been discussed by coinsel,
but as this is fundamental and upon it rests the whole prosecution, I have preferred to express my views on this matter alone.
It seems clear to my mind that the construction now given
writes into the statute an offense which Congress never placed
there. It is a criminal case, and, in such a case above all,
judicial legislation is to be deprecated.

I am authorized to say that MR.
JUSTICE PECKHAM concur in

JUSTICE WHITE

these views.

and MR.

