FEBRUARY, 181o.

53

that a habeas corpus is the proper remeay, m-a case
of arrest under a civil process. -

ONZALE
THORTOZ.

Habeas corpus, refused..

ONEALE v. THORNTON.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of The act oftis. .
Columbia, sittjng in-Washington, in an action -of ,en
assumpsit upon a promissory note, dated August 6th, authorized the
....
the city
of
1800, payable in nine months thereafter, and given Uof....
by- Oneale to William Thornton, surviving commas- Washington to.
sioner of the city, of Washington, for the purchase- resell lots fdr
denfaltofha
money of lots No. 1. and 2. in e square. No. io,.
in

in tt

.......
i

cty.

-"

firstpurc aser,
contemplates a
&Iighe resale

The defence set up by Oneale was, that there was nuly; and by
no consideration for the note,
as the that resale tby
supertntendant of -the city, -who (by virtue -of. the the act is exact of congress passed the lst 6f May, 1802,. entitled eted.s
By selling
"An act to abolish the board of commssioners.n the and convgyibg
to
-- . the
a thproperty
rd purchacity of Washingtoni and -for other- purposes,")
(voI. 6. p.- 126.) succeeded to all the-powersy-4dutes, ser, the com.
-inasmuch

and rights of the-late commissioners, whose -office nIsssoner

pre-

.was abolished by tfiat acti 'had- abandoned or re- selves from
scmded the contract of sale, by having sold and con- setting up the
veyed' the same lots to another-person in fee-simple. " healo
purchaser, by
this
af.

kanlg
The bill-of.excep'tions taken at the trial, stated, in ndefence,
substance, the following case.firmed

the
title
of the
thi'rd purcha-

The States of Virginia and Maryland, having,. in ser.
the year 1789, offered to the United States a cession
of territory ten miles square for the permanent seat
of government, the United States, by the act- of
congress of the 16th of yuly, 1790, (Vol. 1. -p.,132.)
entitled " An act for establishing the temporary and
permanent seat of the government of- the -United

States," acqepted the same, and authorized the pre-

54

SUPRE1ME COURT U. S.

sident to appoint certain commissioners for.the pur.,
la.the summer
THORNTON' pose of carrying the act into effect.
of 1791, the greater part of the proprietors of the
land 'included within the present bounds of the city
of Washington, conveyed the same to Thomas
Beall, son of George, and.John M. Gantt, in trust,
to be laid out as a city, and that after deducting
streets, avenues, and public squares for the use of
the United States, the residue should be equally
divided; one moiety to be reconveyed to the original proprietors, and the other to be "sold at such
time or times, in such manner, and on such terms
and conditions as the President of the United
States, for the time bing, shall direct ;" the purchase-money to be paid over to the president as a
grant of money, and to be applied for the purposes
mentioned in the actof congress of 16th yuly, 1790.
The lots so sold were to be conveyed by Beall
and Gantt to the purchasers. "And because it
might so happen that by the death or removal of the
,aid Thoma's Beall and John- M, 6antt, or from
other causes, difficulties might occur in fully perfecting the said trust by executing all the said conveyances, if no eventual provision should be made,
it was' therefore agreed and covenanted between
all the said parties, that the said Thomas Bealb and
John M. Gantt, or either of them, or the heirs of
*either of them, lawfully might, and that they, at any*
time, at the request of the President of the United
,States,' for' Tje time being, would coiivdy all or
any of the said. lands which should not then have
been conveyed in execution of the trusts aforesaid,
to such person or. persons as *he should appoint,
subject to the trusts"then remaining to be executed,
and to the end that the same maybe Verfected--"
OZALZ

In consequence of this clause in the original 'deeds of trust, ann

by order of thd president,. the trustebs, Beall and Gantt, transferred

the trust to'Gustavtzs Scott, William Thorntw), aa ftlexander White,
then commissioners of the city of Wihbigtofi, and the. survivors and
atwvivor of them, bad the heirs of such'atdrvIvoirsy tlead dated the 30th
*of November, 1796. .This fact xwas omitted to be stated fr. the bill of
e.ceptions, ppt ther cause was.dred as'if it bad bee'irtq tated.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

55

'The -legislature of Maryland i by an act passed at Oln&LZ.
their November session, 1791, c. 4S. subjected all TooRNTO1.
the lands in the city belongingto absentees, minors,
married women, and persons non compos mentis,,to
the same terms and conditions as are- contained in
the deeds of trust from the other prop:ietors, "and
vesteil the legal estate thereof in. Beud and Gantt;
and afte'r declarifng the manner in which a division
of the property should.be made between the original
proprietors and.the commissioners, it declares, that
" all persons to whom allotments.and assignmcnts' of
lands sliall be made liv the comiissioners, shall hold
.the sAine in their former estate, land intezrest and in
lieu -f their. former quantitk', 'and subject in every
respect, to a11 such limitations, conditionis and encumbiances, as their former estate ind interest were.
slibject to, and as if the same'had been actuall re-cbnveyed pursuant to the said deed in trust.'
By the 4th section it is further enacted, that " all.
squares, lots, pieces'and parcels of land, within the
s,id city, which haie been or shall" be appropriated '
fCcr-the use of the- United States, ahid'also the streets,
shall remain and be for the use of the United States;.
iad ail the'lotiandparcdls which have been. or -hall
be sold to raise money as a donation as qforeiaid,
shall, reman andbe to the purchasers,accordin to the
terms and conditions of thetr respecte'purchdisers."
The same section then proceeds to quiet, tie titles
of all persons claiming by purchase froni or under
original proprietors, who have beeni in possession in
their own right.for five" years-before the passing of
the' act.
By''the act of 1793, c. 58. §'i. -t-ie legislature of
Marylafid further provided that .".the certificates
gi'anved, or to be granted by the said commissioners,
or any two of them, to purchasers of lots in the said
city,*with acknowledgment of the payient of the
whole purchase-mouey, and interest, if any-shall have
ai'iseh thereon, and "recorded, shall be suffiien.dto
vest the legal 6state in- the purchasers, their heirs

SUPREME COURT U. S.
NZA.Ln

v.

and assigns, according to the import of such certificates, without any deed or formal conveyance."
By the 2d section of the same act it is enacted,
that " on sales of lots in the said city by the said
commissioners, or -any two of them, under terms or
conditions -pfpayment being made therefor at any
day or days after such contract entered into, if any
sum of .the purchase-money or interest shall not be
paid, for the space of thirty, days after 'the same
ought to be paid,,the commissioners, or any two of
them, may sell the same. lots at vendue, in the city
of Washington, at any time after sixty days' notice
of such sale in Isome of the public newspapers of
Georgetown and Baltimore town, and retain, in.
their hands, sufficient of the money produced by
such new sale, to satisfy all principal and interest due
on the first contract,. together with the expenses of
advertisements and sale ; and the original purchaser,
or his assigns, shall be entitled .to receive from the
said commissioners, at their treasury, on demand, the
balance of the money which shall have been actually
received by them,' or under their order, on the said
second sale; and all, lots do sold shall be freed and acquitted of all claim, legal and equitable, of the frst
purch.aser, his heirs and assigns,"
On the 29th of Sepiember,'1792, the Presidnt
of the United States, by his order in frfiting, direciea
that the sale of lots in the city of Washingtol, to
.commence on the 8th of October then next,'should
be of 'such lots as the commissioners, or" any two
of them, should think proper. That the sale should
be under their direction, and on the terms they
6hould publish. And it was on the same day further ordered by the president, that any lot or lots in
the city of Washington might, after the public sale
which"was to commence on the 8th of October, 1792,
ie. sold and agreed for by the commissioners, or any
two 6f them, at piivate sale, at such price, and on
such terms, as they' might think proper.
On the 24ta of December, 1793, after the passing

FEBRUARY, 1810.
V.
of the above recited act of the Maryland "legislature O!aALZ
of November session, 1793, c. 58.. "Robert *Moris THOIRNTOY
and James Greenleaf entered into a contract with _
the commissioners for the purchase of six thousand
lots in the city of Washington; payable in 'seven
annual instalments. The lots to be selected.by Morris and Greenleaf in the manner described in the
contract. They selected, among others, the tivo lots
sold afterwards to Oneale, and for the purcliase of
which- by Oneale the note was given upon wV~ich"
the present suit was brought.

Morris and Greenleaf received conveyances for
all the lots which they paid for under their contract,
but having failed to pay some of the instalments, the
commissioners, by virtue of the act of Maryland,
1793, c.;
58. duly advertised for sale a large number
of the lots contracted for by Morris and Greenleaf,
including the lots'in question. The terms of sale
were, that the -purchase-money should be paid in
three, sixand nine months, and secured by gogd negotiablepaper endorsed to the satisfaction of the commissioners. At this sale the defendant Oneale purchased lots No. 1. and 2. in the square No. 107. at
a price considerably greater than the amount due
-thereonfrom, Oforris and Greenleaf, and -gave his
promissory notes therefor, upon one of which the
present suit was brought.
By the act of congress passed on the 1st of Hay,
1802, vol. 6. p. 126. it is enacted, " That from and
after the first day of June next, the offices of the.
commissioners appointed in virtue of an act passed
on the 16th day bf 'June, 1790, entitled, ' Adact to
establish the temporary aid permanent seat of the'
government of the United States,' shall cease and
determine; and.the said commissioners shall deliver
up to such person as the president shall appoint, in
virtue of this act, all plans, draughts, books, records, accounts, deeds, grants, Contracts," bonds, obligations, securities, and other evidences 6f debt in
their possession, which relate to the city of Washingto'n, and the affairs heretofore under their superi.a.
Vol. VI.

H

SUPRENME COURT U. S.
58
tendance or care." And it was further enacted 9
ONAT'.
V¢.
TEonNTON. " That the affairs of the city of Washington, which
Shave heretofore been under the care and superintendance of the said commissioners, shall hereafter be
under the direction of a superintendant to be appointed by, and to be under the control of, the President of the United States; and the said superintendant i. hereby.invested with all powers, and shall hereafteperform all duties which the said commissioners are now vested with, or are required to perform,
by or in virtue of any act of congress, or any act of
the general assembly of Maryland, or any deed or
deeds of trust from the original proprietors of the
lots in the said city, or in any other manner whatsoever." -And it was further enacted, "That the
said superintendant shall, prior to the first day of
November next, sell, under the directions of the
President of the United States, all the lots in the
said city which were sold antecedent to the sixth
day of May, 1796, andwhich the said commissioners
are authorized6y law to resell, in consequence of a
failu're on the part of the purchasers, to comply
nith their contracts."
Under'this act Thomas Munroe was appointed
superintendant, and having given the notice required
by the act of Maryland, 1793, c. 58. and Oneale
having failed to pay his notes, the superintendant.
proceeded to sell again the lots No. 1. and 2. in the
square No. 107. and one Andrew Rc3s became the
purchaserfora sum less than the amount due thereon
from Morris and Greenleaf, the first purchasers.
Ross assigned his interest in the ld to James
Moore, to whom the superintendant afterwards conveyed the lots in fee-siiple,'by a deed which recites
the contract between Morris and Greenleaf, and the
commissioners for the purchase of six thousad lots;
the selection of lots No. 1. and 2. *in square No.
107. as part thereof;, the failure of Mi/orris and
Greenleaf to pay the purchas-e-moiey therefor; the
sale by the superintendant to Ross,'and the assignnment byRoss to Moore; but. takes no notice of the
intermediate sale tQ Oneale. The money received

FEBRUARY, 1810.

59

upon the sale to Ross, was by the s9uperintendant
applied to the credit of Morris and Greenleaf, the
original purchasers.
The first resale of lots by the commissioners, for
default of payment by purchasers, took place on the
2d of May, 1797. Another resaldof other lots took
place on the 28th of August, 1797. At thes6 resales
none of the lots contracted for by Morris and
Greenleaf were resold, and in'every instance except
one, the lots produced, at such resale, as much as was
due thereon from the first purchaser, with interest
and expenses of sale. On the 18th of October,
1797, the first resale oif Morris and Greenleaf's lots
commenced, and the commissioners then laid it down
as a rule, and from which they never afterwards departed during the existence of their offices, that no
lot should be resold for less than the amount due
thereon from the first purchaser. with interest and
expenses of sale.
The commissioners, at the time of their resale toOneale, had a right to resell the Tots for the default
of Morris and Greenleaf. I he 'notes 'given by
Oneale for the purchase-money, were endorsed by
Basil Wood, but he endorsed only as security, and
the only consideration for the notes aid the endorsement. was the sale of the lots.
I Upon *second.resales of lots it was the universal
practice of the commissioners to apply the money
actually received therefor to the credit of the ac'Coutit.of the first purchaser, taking no notice of the
intermediate purchaser, and"they always sold as for
the default of the first purchaser, and all.the deeds
wvhich they made to purchasers at such resales, recited the first contract only for the purchase 'of the
lot, and the default of.the, first purchaser as the only
'cause of such-xesale; wholly pretermitting all intermediate purchAsers,
Upon this statement ot the evidence, the defendant moved the "couxrt tojnstruct the jury, that if they

o02ALZ
T

60
9fn.

;Ioa'ORT

SUPREME COURT U. S.

z" should find, from the evidence, ihat the bargain between the plaintiffs and defendant for the sale of tho
two lots was understood and made by the parties to
be upon the condition and-contingency that if the
promissory notes given for the purchase-money
should be punctually paid, it should become an absolute sale to the defendant, but if the promissory
notes should not be punctually paid, the commissioners should have the option of annulling the bargain for the sale, and of reselling the lots as for the
original default of Morris and Greenleaf, the first
purchasers. And if the jury should further find,
from the evidence, that the superintendant, in reselling to Ross, and conveying-to Moore his as.
signee, did so resell and convey the lots as for the
original default of Morris and Greenleaf, in diszjfirmance of thJ bargain to sell them to the dfendant, and in pursuance and exercise of such option
reserved to the commissioners; the plaintiffs are not
entitled. to recover the sai, ptrchase-money in this
action.
Which instruction the court refused to give.
The detendant then prayed the court to instruct
the jury, that upon the evidence offered as above,
if believed by the juiry, the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover any part of the purchase-money
bidden by the defendant for the lots as above mentioned. But the court refused this instruction also;
whereupon the defendant took a bill of exceptions
and sued out his writ of error.
P. B. Key and t. S. Key, for the plaintiff in error.
These lots were "originally sold to Morris and
Greenleaf by the commissioners, who, upon the defqult of Morris and .Greenleaf, sold them to the
plaintiff in error. Upon his default, the superii.endant, who succeeded to the -rights, powers and
dudias of the commissioners, sold them to Ross, who
asigned.bis righe:t0 Mfoore, to whom the sperin-'
tendant conveyed them by a deed which passed the

FEBRUARY, 1810.

61

legal estate in fee to Moore. The act of congress, ONSALS
directing him to sell certain lots, does not affect the Tab NTou.
present question ; for it only directs him to sell such
lots as the commissioners were, at the time of passing that act, authorized by law to resell; The
question then is, what were the rights and the au-.
thority which' the commissioners then had respecting these lots?
We contend that the power of resale given to the
commissioners by the act of Maryland, 1793, c. 58.
2. can be used but once, -and expires in the'using,
The evils intended to be remedied by that law,
were these. Before that act -was passed, whenever the
commissioners had contracted, to sell a lot, and the
purchaser failed to pay the purchase-money -at tle
time stipulated, the commissioners could not enforce the payment by a resale of the lot without obtaining a decree for that purpose from a court of
chancery. This was productive of great delay and
expense, which became oppressive in proportion to
the great number of sales Which they were authorized to m:tke. The expense would not only exhaust
the fands infended to be raised from the donation
of the lands, but tle delay would defeat the objedt
of the donors, which -was to -provide suitable buildings for the accommodation'of the general government.
As the commissioners were public officers of the
goverament, having no personal interest in :the subject,of their trust, it was-deemed- prudent .and proper to confide to them a limited portion of-the
chancery jurisdiction, as to the sales of the public
lots. Accordingly they are authorized by that act,
in case the purchase-money should not be- paid in
thirty days after it ought to have been:paid,to sell
the lots at vendue, upon sixty days' notice,- and to
retain sufficient of the money produced .by'such new
sale- to satisfy all principal and interest due, on the
.first contract, with the expenses of sale; and the ori.g-inalpurchaser.or his assigns, was entitled toreceive

SUYPREME COURT U. S.
)ZEALZ

V.

the balance of the money which should be actually

received by them on the second sale; and such lots
were to be freed of all claim, legal and equitable, of
thefirst purchaser, his heirs and assigns.
This.was a short and summary mode of foreclosing the -equity of the first purchaser, and of collecting the purchase-money. It was, in effect, a statutory decree for those purposes. It not only does
not contain an authority to continue to resell as often as default should be made, but it contains ex.
pressions inconsistent with such a construction.
Thus the commissioners are to retain only sufficient to satisfy the Pfrst contract, and the surplus is
to be paid to'the originalpurchaser only. Whatever, therefore, might have -been the sum received
from the sale to Ross, Oneale could derive no benefit therefrom ; if he would not have been entitled
to thL. surplus, he cannot be chargeable with the
deficietny, without attributing to the legislature the
-most palpa~le injustice; an imputation which can
never be consistent with the true construction of a
doubtful statute. -Indeed, the statute does not contemplate the possibility of a deficiency; it makes no
provision for such a casei and it speaks of tIe ba-

lance as being rertainly in favour of th6 firs; purchaser' in all cases,. Nor does it contemplate the
necessity of a second resale. It seems to presume
that the first resale would be for cash, and would
certainly'produce more than sufficient to satisfy the
original purchase-money, with interest and cl.arges.
If any person is liable for the deficiency it must be

Morris and Greenleaf, who, by the express provi-

.ions of the act are entitled to the surplus. * The legislature, intended only to give a summary remedy
against the lots, not to -impose, a new perscnal responsibility ,upon.,any third person for the deficiency
OJf Morris and Greenleaf.
The commissioners, then, having a right to resell but once, and having -actually resold -to Ross,
received from Aim the purchgse-money, and convey1

FEBRUARY, 181o.

63

ed the legal estate to his assignee by -a good deed in
fee-simple, cannot deby it to be a valid resale, it- is
not for them to say that it is not the execution
of the power granted them by the statute; they are
estopped by'their deed to deny their authority -to
make that resale. If that resle was valid, (which
they cannot deny,) it must be because., the -intermediate contract for resale was void, or at, least voidable at their option; it is also evidence that they had
made their election under such option if they had
it. Besides, the legal estate is gone to the assignee
of Ross, who is a bonafide purchaser for a valuable
consideration without notice of Oneale's equity, if
he ever had any, so that it is not noy in the power
of the commissioners specifically to execute the contract on their part; and therefore' they .cannqt
claim a compliance with it on his.
The sale to Ross was niade bythe cbmrisioiierseither in affirmance or'disaffirmance of the sale to
Oneale. If'it was 'made in affirmance of 'the sale to
Oneale, then it-,must have been sold as' his prope:'ty.
The commissioners ought to account with him for-the
proceeds; he would be entitled to the surplus, and the
commissioners would be authorized to retain n their
hands sufficient of the moneyIproduced by such"new.
sale to -satisfy all principal' and interest due on the
second contract, (i. e. the contract to sell to Oneale.)
But the statute only authorizes the' commis.sioners to retain in their hands sdfficientto satisfy the
amount due on the first contract, (i. e. the contract
with Morris and Greenleaf,) and obliges them to
pay over to them the balance.
And in conformity N'ith these provisions of the
statute, the commissioners always resold as for the
default of the jfrst purchasers; Morris and'Green:
leaf. They never pretended to retain more than
the amount due from lorris. and Greenleaf upon
the first contract, atid they ahivays ppsped to their
.credit the surplus." The sale to 'Ro-s, therefore,
could not fiave,,been in affirmance, but, must have
been in disajrmance of the contract with Oneale.

ONVAte

THoa T.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ONEALE

.
--

Having then: by their acts disavowed that contract,
they cannot niow set it up again, after they have
sold and conveyed away to another the very subject
of the contract, and received its value.
The consideration of the notes has totally failed.
The legislature of Maryland ,might have granted
to the commissioners a continuing power to resell
upon each default, and each resale might have foreclosed the equity of all preceding parties: but they
have not done iso, and have used a language wholly
inconsistent with such a provision.
Rodney, Attorne.,-General and Yones, contra.
The grounds taken by the opposite counsel depend upon the construction of the act of Maryland;
and even admitting. them to be right in their construction, the notes are not void.
But we contend their are not right in that construction. -The act of assembly authorizes a resal, as often as default shall be made by any purthaser. The right to resell, is, ex vi termini, coextensive with the original power to sell. Every resale is.a new sale, and within the. statute. Th
terms, "new sale," "first contract," " original
purchaser," "second sale," and "first purchaser,"
are all relative terms. Oneale is the originalpurchaser; the- frst purchaser, as to Ross; and his
contracf-is,-as to Ross, the.frst contract.
The expression in the second section of the act
is extensive enough to comprehend all the resales.
It is that "on sales of lots in the said city by the
said commissioners, under terms or conditions of payment being made It a future day," &c. "and if the
purchase-money shall not be paid," &c." the commissioners may sell the same lots at vendue," &c.
"On, sales of lots," means "on any sales of
lots ' a resale. is as much- a sale as the original
sale; consequently, if upon a resale, the purchase-'

FEBRUARY, 1816.
money should not be paid, the commissioners would

hawe as good a-right'tdsell again as they had for the

first'.default. It wat'clearly an error in them to redit the amount of sales'to the account of Morris and
Greenleaf. But if the commissioners could resell but
once, the second reside to Ross was without'authority, 'and void, The sale to Oneale remains good,
and the notes are valid. In that case nothing passed to Ross by the deed to' him; for the commissioners,-'being mere trustees, and having no intdrest,
-could convey.only what they had authoriiy to convey. But if the legal estate has passed to the assignee of Ross, that circumstance does not invalidate the notes. It was the fault of Oneale himself, for he might have paid the purchase-money
according to his contract, and obtaind a title. D aring the period of two years he could have availed
himself of the contract; he, might have sold, or
otherwise disposed of "the lots. Before he can
show the notes to be hiuda pacta, he must show tha-.
there never was a considerationfor them.The act meant to give the commissioners the same
right as to the sales of lots which a vendor of personal property has in England. If the purchaset
does not pay for the goods on the day stipulated,
the vendor may sell them again at the risk of the
first vendee; and if they produce less, he may recover from him the difference ; so that the sale to
Ross may be valid, and yet .Oneale liable for the
difference between the sum paid by Ross, and thc

sum due from Morris and Greenleaf; upon the first
contract.
P.. B. Key, in reply, observed, that there must
not only be a sufficient consideration for the *notes
at the time they were givten, but there must l4e a:
consideration.continuing up to the .tinie of trial..
At to the idea of charging. Oneale with th& difference between the amount due from Moiris and
Greenleaf, and the amount paid by Ross, he anked,

T

Os.&ALr
Va0'TO.

SUPREME ,coURV U. S.
o-L
'rPoRNoN:

~

who would pay that difference, if there had been, as
there might be, according to the construction contended for on the other side, 'fifteen intermediate
purcha'ers ,v-ho had all failed to pay their notes?
Would all the notes be valid? Or to which of them
should the commissioners resort?
February 15.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivereil the opinion of the

court as. follows:
This suit was instituted on a promissory note given by the plaintiffs in error, to the commissioners
of the city'.of Washington, in payment for two lots
originally sold to Aoiris and Greenleaf, and resold
to the plaintiff in consequence of the failure 'f the
original purchasers to' pay the purchase-money. The
defendant having also failed to pay the purchasemoney, he lots were again resold by the superintendant,ivho succeeded to the powers of the commissioners, and were conveyed to the assignee of the third
purchaser. Oneale, the defendant in the circuit
court, contended that, by this *ubsequent sale and
conveyance, a totfl -failure of the consideration for
which the. note was given has been 'produced by the
act of the creditor, and that he is coisequently discharged from paying the note. 'This point having
been decided against him, he'has brought a writ of
error to' the judgment of the ciicuit .court, and insists here, as in the c urtbelow,
. That the consideration on WhiCh the note x as
given has totally failed, and that this failure is produced by the illegal conduct of the agent for the city.
In support of the'judgment of the circuit court
it is"contended-;

-

1. That the act of the legislature for the state of
AMaryland, tinder which--both resales ptirp6r' to
-have been made, authorizes a third sW6e on the'fail-"

FEBRUARY, 1810.

67

ONA1z
ure of the purchaser at the second sale to discharge
T5oH1rTtI,
"
his note.

2. If this be otherwise, tha't such subse-quent sale
could not affect the right of Oneale, whose title.
would still be good.
The first point depends on the second section of
the act entitled a further supplement to the-act "conceining the territory 'of Columbia, and the city of
Washington."
This act enables the commissioners to sell atipublic vendue any lots sold by them on credit, if the
purchaser shall fail to pay the purchase-money thifty days after the same shall become due, and to "retain in their hands sufficient of the money, produced
by such new sale, to satisfy all principal and interest
due by the first contract, together with the'exp1enses,
&c. and the original purchaser, or his- assigns, shall
be entitled to receive froh the said commissioners, at
their treasury, on demand, the.balance of the money
which may have been actually received by them, or
under their order, on the second sale, and all lots, so
sold, shall be freed and acquitted of all claim legal
and equitable, of the first. purchaser, his heirs and
assigns."
It has been argued, that the terms of this section
allow a resale so lorlg as the purchaser shall fail to
pay the purchase-money, and that every purchaser,
so failing, remains liable for his notes notwithstancing such resale.
But this court is of opinion, that a single resale
only is contemplated by the legislature, and that by
such resale, the power given by the act is executed."
The proposition, that a power to resell, if not restricted by the terms irt which it is.granted, implies
a gift of all the power possessed at the original sale,
will noi be denied ;. but the Court is of opinion, that
in this case, the power Qf reselling is restricted by

SUPREME COURT V. S.
o0NALM

,rHoN.

the words which confer it. These words are sucli aso
in their literal meaning, apply exclusively to a first
ad second sale. The words, "first contract." "original, purchaser," and -first purchaser,"' designate,
as expressly and exclusively as any words our lan.
guage.furnishes, the first sale made of the property,
and the purchaser at that sale, and no other; It is
true, that the natural import of words may 'beaffected by the context, and that where other parts of the
statute demonstrate an intent different from that
which the words of a particular section of themselves would import, such manifest intent may be
admitted 'to give to the words employed a less ob.vious meaning°. But, in this-statute, no such intent
pppears.
Men use a language calculated to express the idea
they mean to convey. If the legislature had con.
templated various and successive sales, so that any
intermediate contract or purchaser was within the
view of the Iwmaker and intended to be affected
by the power of resale given- to the commissioners,
the words employed would have been essentially
ifferent from those actually used, We should certainly have found words in the act applicable to the
case of such intermediate contract. But we find no
such terms; and the want of them might, in the
event of different sales, for different prices, produce
difficultics scarcely to be surmounted. No man,'int~uding to draw a law for the purpose of giving the
commission'ers a continuing power to resell as often
as defa ut in payment should be made by the purchaser, could express that intention in the language of
this act.
It hs been argued, by the defendants in eror,
that every sub,equeut default would produce the
same necessity for reselling againthat was produced
by the defauit of the original purchaser, and that
therefore- the legislature, if their words will permit
it, ought to be cons.idered as having given the same
'emedy.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

69

The influence readily conceded to this argument onwi
in.-general cases, is much impaired, if not entirely,.TaoarXoa
.. jO .
destroyed, by the. particular circumstanues attending
this law.
A contract for 6.000 lots was concluded on the day
that this act passsed, immediately after -its passage.
In this large contract was merged a former contract for
,3,000 lots made with one of the purchasers in 'this
second contract. It is impossible to reflect on 'this
fact without being persuaded that the law was agreed
upon by the parties to this contract, and was specially.
adapted to it. The" immensity of property disposed
of by this sale, furnished motives for legislative aid
by giving a'speedy remedy to the commissioners which
might not exist on the resale of particular lots occasioned by any partial-default in the purchasers. In consideration of the magnitude of the contract, the. lots
would, according to' the, ordinary iourse of human
-affairs, rate lower than in cases of a few sold to individuals. Consequently it could never enter the mind
of the commissioners, or 9f the legislature,that dne'of

these lots resold would not command a much higher.
price than the estimate made of it in the.original contract. We therefore find no provision made, in the
law, for the event of a lot's selling for a less sum,
-when resold, than was originally given f6r it. This
furnishes. additional inducements to the opinion..thae
the legislature considered itself as having done as
much as. the state of the city rpequlred, by giving this
summaryreledy for the default of the first .purchaser, and leaving-the parties afteyrwards to the ordinar
coirse of law.
It is, then, the opinion of the court that the-act of
assembly, underi'which the supetintendant has acted,

did not authorize th e resale to Ross of the lots.which
had been previously resold to Oneale.

It. remains, then, to inquire whether this sale and
conveyance 'so affects the title of Oneale, as -to. pro.
duce a failure"of the 'consideration on which "the nok
was given.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
OFA.&L
T-aoRNTON.

, In this case, the improprietv, which has occurred
in consequence of an agent's misconstruing his powers,
is a fact dehors the title papers : It is not apparent on
the face of the conveyances. They purport to pass a
title which is entirely unexceptionable. How far such
a conveyance may be valid in law, or how far it may
be .affected kn equity by actual or implied notice to
such subsequent purchaser, this court will not now
decide.
The city, by reselling the property, and conveying
it to the purchaser, (ani act. to be justified by no
state of things but the nullity of the previous sale,)
has not left itself at liberty to maintain the continuing
obligation of that sale; and the plaintiff, by setting
up this defence, has affirmed the title of the last purchaser.
This court is of opinion that the city hivs disabled
itself from complying with its contract, and that, on
the testimony in the cause, the plaintiff below ought
not to have recovered.
Judgment reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript
of.the record from the circuit court, for the county of
Washington, and was argued by counsel; all which
being seen and- considered, this court is of opinion
that the circuit court, erred in "'refusing to give the
opinion prayed by the counsel for the defendants in
that court, that, on the whole testimony, if believed,
the plaintiffs in that court could not support their
action. This cour*t doth therefore reverse, and annul
the judgment, rendered in this cause by the said
circuit court, and doth remand the cause to that courtfr'r a new trial thereof.

