FEBRUARY, 181o

307

or estate remained, for an instant afterwards, in the
former owner.

StT,,
V.
MARYLANS

But no act of the commissioners was necessary in
order to obtain sdisin in the land, to support the use
-dhus transferred from Ann Ottey to the state. No
seizure was necessary. The second law considers
that all property belonging to British subjects was,
by the mere operation of the first law, seized and
confiscated; and declares that the commissioners were
then in the full and actual seisin and possession of the
property,, so seized and confiscated by the first law,
though no entry or other act had or should be made
or done.
Being thus in. the actual seisin, under the second
law, which-sdisin had been declared, by the first law,
to enure to the use of the state, it is perfectly immaterial at what time the right of. the state to the
lands. now in.controversy, thus completed prior to
he treaty, was discovered, or at what timv actual
seisin and possejssion was obtined. From the time
ihat the second- la w came into operation, the possession of the trustees of Ann Ottey either ceasea to be
legalO, or it was to be considered as the possession of
the commissioners to the new use which had been declared by law. The present suit is between persons clai'ming under the-state%and others who either held the lands
wrongfully, or for the use of tie state, and it is, in no
respect, necessary to the perfection of the change of
the property produced by the laws of confiscaion.
judgment affirmed, with costs.

DUTROUSSEAU AND OTHERS v.THE UNITED
STATES.

ERROR to the district court of the United States, The appellate
court
pee
for the'district of Orleans.
United
T abthe .are
This was a suit breua.ht by the United States against states, .gi-

308
DUROUSSEAU

SUPREME cOtRT U. -.

Durousseau and others upon a bond, given in pursuance

S. of the act of congress of December 22, 1807, usually
T vaU.
called the embargo act. (Laws U. S. tiol. 9. po 7.)
en by the eon. The bond bears date the 16th of May, 1808, and the

titation; but condition isq that the goods therein mentioned 6hould
hey are lmnitra
ep
.relanded in the United .States, at the port -of
dand_ ula_ be
-d bythejudt- Charleston,or at some othet port of the United States,
iaI act, and
oe
ther acts pas- the dangers of the seas excepted.
ed by congress

The proceedings in the court below 'are accdrding to
the forms of the civil law, by petition,,or libel and an.
iction
of de- swer. The libel is in the nature of an action-of -debt
isi0ns in the
hcCUrt ehas
ppellatejuris,

istriet court, for the penalty of the bond, and the plea is in th'e'naI entucbo, ture of a special plea, stating facts which were suppoge, and 0r- sea to be sufficient evidence that the defendants were
an,'even
in prevented
by the dange's of the seas from relanding
uesproperh od
cognisable
ngoods
the
t United States.y the district

urts

of the
)'nitfed States.

.
โข Fhe

answer, or plea,
states,
.
.
that the vessel sailed

'o an action from 'New Orleans witb intent to proceed to the port
f debtfor the of Charleston, ,and that in the due prosecution of her
cnalty of an
rb.argo bond, voyage from New Orleans to-Charlesto, she was i " on
; is a good the 26th of May, 1808, and on divers days from the
lea,
ider
le act of con- said 26th of May-till the, 1st of June then next folress
of
the lowing, upon the high seas by unavoidable accident by
2th of March
808 of thal force of the winds and waves, so much injured and-en-

e .'part- was damaged, that upon the said 1st day of June, for the
rendin preservation of the said vessel and cargo, and the lives
'ie goods in of her crew and-passengers, it wasfound necessary to
3, United put into the port of Havanna to 'refit the said vessel
tates, by aui for her voyage foresaid; and that the perons admivoidabie ace'
vygeprsn
'et.
nistering the government at the said port of Havanna,
byforce of-arms, and against the will and consent of
these defendants, and of the captain and supercargo of
the snid vesseI, and all other persons having the charge
and direction of the said vessel or cargo whatever, did
detain the said vessel and cargo at the said. port of Hayanna, and by superiorforce didprevent the said vessel,
with her cargo, from pursuing her saidvoyqge to the
port of Charleston aforesaid, or from going to any
other port of the United Stateq, and landing the said
cargo therein pursuant to the condition of the said bond,
and did also by force so as aforesaid prevent, and have

FEBRUARY, 18io.

log

always hithertoprevented, the saidcargo, or any part DuxoszAv
therebffrom being sent in any other manner to the said T..
S.
United States and landed therein pursuant to thl condition of the said bond ; and these defendants aver, that
the damages and injuries aforesaid sustained by the
said vessel were unavoidable, and by force of the w-inds
and 'waves ; and that by reasonof the detention, and con.
tihuation thereof, as aforesaid, by superior force as
aforesaid, they could not at any time heretofore, nor can
they yet, land the saidgoods, wares and merchandisesin
ehe said United States, pursuant to the condition of the
said bond in the said petitron set forth, by, reason
whereof and also by force of the statutes in such case
made and provided, these defendants are, as they are
advised, dischargedfrom the payment of the said -sum
of money in the said bond or obligation mentioned, or
anyp: 'tthereof; these defendants, therefore, pray, that
a jur, may be. empannelled to inquire of the facts
aforesaid, should they be denied by the United States,
and that these defendants mawr be hence digfiissed with
,their reasonable costs and damages in this behalf most
wrongfully expended," &c.
To this answer the attorney for the United States
filed a general demurrer, and the court below, without
argument, rendered judgment for the United States;
wheretipon the defendants sued out their writ of error.
Rodney, Attorney-General, and yanes, for the United
States,
Contended,'tha this court has no jurisdiction, because there can be rio writ of error to, or appeal from,
the decisions of the district court of Orleans.
By the act ot -congress passed March 26, 1804, en-'
titled an act erecting Louisiana into two territories, and
providing for the temporary government thereof, vol. 17.
.e. 117..ยง 8. it is enacted, that "there shall be established
in the said territory a district court, to consist of one'
judge, who shall reside therein, and be called the district judge, and who shall hold, in the city of Orleans.,
four sessions annually;" t he shall in all things have
the sabie jurisdi tion and powers, which are by law

310

SUJPREME COURT V. S.

given to, or. may be exercised by, eh judge of Kentu ky
district."
S.
u.
Tan

ftofspAU

By the judiciary act of September 24, 1789, vol. 1.

p. 54. ยง 10. the district court, besides the ordinary jurisdiction of a district court,. has "jurs.diction-of all
other causes -except of appeals and writs of error,
hereinafter made cognisable in a circuit court, nd
shall proceed therein in the same manner as a circuit
court, gnd writs of error and appeals shall lie from decisions therein to the supreme court hathe same causes'
as from a circuit to. the supreme court, and under the
same, regulations."

By the ninth section of the same act the district
courts have "exclusive original cognisance of all suits
for penalties and forfeitures iiieurred ,under the laws
of the United States."
Hence, it appears, that writs of error will lie to th6
Kentucky. district -court in those causes only in which
it acts in the capacity of a circuit court., The word
therein," taeans in'causes other than those of which
the district courts generally had cognisance.under the
9th section of the act.
This court, in ,the cases of Clarhe v. Bazadne, 1
Cranch, 21;. and Bollman and Swartwout, 4 Cranch,
75. disclaimed any appellate jurisdiction not expressly given by law; and by a late act, vol 8. p. 21.
and vol. 9. p. 116. extending jurisdiction in certain
cases to state judges and state courts, the jurisdiction
is given without appeal; which shows that congress
are not anxious that there should be an appeal from all
the courts to which they have given jurisdiction.
There is no appeal from the judge of'the district of
Orleans in cases where he exercises only the district
court jurisdiction. In Kentucky there was no circuit
court. 'The districtjudge, although he ekercised the
powers and jurisdiction of a circdit court, yet he did
not hold a circuit court. His court was merely a district court. The courts of the United States can emercise no jurisdiction not expressly given by. statute.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

311

a Dallas, 337. Although, this suit vas upon a bond, Dvi@~ar.&
yet it was in fact a suit for a penalty or fdrfeiture, THz U.S.
like the case of the auctioneer's bond in 2..Anruther .y.v
586, 587.
This is as much a penalty as if it had been merely
declared by the statute, without having been put into
the form of a bond. E. Livingston, contra.
This court has jurisdiction in consequence ofits being the supreme court, and the other an inferior court.,
The terms supreme and inferior are correlative, and
imply a power of revision in the superior court.
The judiciary act (f 1789 gives a writ of error
from the supreme court to the district court of Kentucky, in all cases where a writ of error would lie to a
distfict court from a circuit court, as well, as in those
cases where a writ. of error lies generally from the supreme court to a circuit court. The word "therein,'
means in that -couft, and not those cases only in which
that court exercises the jurisdiction of a circuit court.
The 'act of congress gives the Orleans judge the
and powers as are given to the Kensame jurisdiction*
tucky judge; If it-bad been intended tb give him the
same jurisdicion without limiting his power by the
right of appeal, congress would not have used the wordl
powers. The same powers, means no greater powers;
but if the'Kentucky judge had limited powers, and the
Orleans judge has unlimited powers, the powers carinot be the same.
C. Le4, same side, cited the case of Mlorgan v. Cal.
lender, 4 Cranch, 370. in which this court decided that
it has jurisdiction in cases-of appeal from the district
court of Orleans. He also suggested the inconvenience which would result from having a revenue caurt in
Orleans not'subject to the contiol of the supreme court;
and from a difference of construction in the laws ro-

512
bVt6 0sFAU specting
v. parts of
T.E U. S.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
trade, commerce and revenue in differethe territories
of the United States.

Yonesin reply, observed, that the inconvenience ari.
sing from the want of uniformity of decision already exists with respect to all cases under 2,000 dollars value,
in which there can be no appeal, or writ of error.
-Mfarch15.
MARSHALL,.Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the court,
upon the question of'jurisdictipn, as .follows :

This is the fifst of several wri ts of error to sundry
judgments rendered by the court of the Unite'd States
for the territory of Orleans.
The attorney-general having moved to dismiss them,
because no writ of error lies from this court to that in
an.y case, or, if in any case, not in such a case as this ;
the jurisdiction of this court becomes the first subject
for consideration.
The act erecting Louisiana into two territories
establishes a district court in the territory of Orleans,
consisting of one j7'ylge.who ",shall, in all things, bave
and exercise the same jurisdiction and powers which
are, by law, given to, or may be exercised by, the judge
"ofKentucky district."
On the part of the United States it is contended,
that this description of the jurisdiction of the court of
New OrleI&I, does not imply a power of revision in
this court singular to that which might have been exercised over the judgments of the district court of Kentucky ; or, if it does, that a writ of error could not have
been sustained to a judgment rendered by the district
court of Kentucky, in such a case as this.
*On the part of the plaintiffs it is contended, that this
court possesses. a constitutional power to revise and
correct the judgments of inferibr courts; or, if not so,
that such a power is implied in the act by which the

FEBILUARY, 181o.

31-3

iurt of Orleans is created, taken in connection with DuRagussxsg
the judicial act; and that a writ of error would lie to a Tna U- B.
judgment rendered by the cohrt for the disuict of Ken.
tucky, in such -a case as this.
Every question: originating in the constitution of the
United States claims, and will receive, the most seriqus
consideration of this court.
The third article of that in'strument commences with
organizing the judicial department. It consists of one
supreme court; and of such inferior-courts as congres,
shall, from time to-time, ordain and establish. Inthese courts is vested the judicial power of the-United
Stats.'The first clause of the second section enumerates the
ases-to which that power shall extend.
'The second clause of the same. section distributes
the powers previously described. In some few cases
the supreme court possesses original jurisdiction. The
constitutioh then proceeds thus : " In all the other cases
before mentioned the supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and,fact, with such exceptions, and under such re.gulation's as the c.ongresp
shall rihake."
It is contended that the-words -Qfthe cQnstitutioq vest
an appellate jurisdiction iti this court, whirhextetids to
every case not excepted by congress ; an4 that if the
court had been created without any express definition
or limitation of its powers, a full and cam iete appellate
jurisdictibn would havevested in it, whlzh must have.
been exerdised in all cases whatever.
The force of this argument is perceiyhd and admitted. Had the judicial act created the s6preme court,
without defining or limiting its jurisdition, it must
have been considered as possessing all tlte juiisdiction
vhich the constitution assigns to it. Tie legislafure
would -have exercised -the power it possessed of crzeating a supreine court as ordained by -the constitution ;
irol. V.

R r

514

SUPREME COURT U. S.

AU and, in omitting to exercise the right of excepting from
TneU. S; its constitutional powers, would have necessarily left
.those powers indiminished, The appellate powers of
"this court are not given'by the judicial act. They are
given by the constitution. But they are limited- and
regulated by the judicial act, and by such other acts as
have been passed on the subject.

))ov

When the first legislature of the union proceeded to
carry the third article of the constizution -into effect,
they must be understood as intending to execute the
power they possessed of making exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction of the suprrme court. They have
not, indeed, made these exceptions in express terms.
They have not declared that the appellate power of the
court shall not extend to certain cases ; but they have
described affirmatively its jurisdiction, and this affirmative desdription has been understood to imply a
negative on the exercise of satch appellate power as is
not comprehended within it.
The spirit as well as the letter of a stitute must be
respected, and where the whole context of the law demonstrates a particular intent in the legislature to effect
a certain object, some degree of implication may be
called in to aid that intent.
It is upon this principle that the court implies 4
legislative exception from its constitutional appellate
power in the legislative affirmative description of those
powers.
Thus, a writ, of error lies to the judgment of a circuit court, where the matter in controversy exceeds the
value of 2,000 dollars.
There is no express declaration that it will not lie where the matter in controversy
shall be of less value. But the court considers this affirmative description as manifesting the intent of the
legislature to except from its appellate jurisdiction all
cases decided in the circuits where the matter in con.
troversy is of less value, and implies negative words.
This restriction, however, being implied by the court,

PEBRUARY, 1810.

315

'and that implication being founded on the manifest in- DUXPV&2V4.V
tent of the legislature' can be made only where that' Tktx VU. s.
manifest intent appears. It ought not to be made for
ihe purpose of defeating the'intent of the legislature.
Having made these observations on the constitution,
the courr will proceed to consider the acts on which
its jurisdiction, in the presefnt case, depends; and, first,
to inqtiire whether it could take cognisance of this case
had the judgment been rendered by the district court
of Kentucky.
The ninth section of the judicial act describes the
jurisdiction of the districtcourts.
The tenth section declares that the district court of
Kentucky, "besides the jurisdiction aforesaid," shall
exercise jurisdiction ovei all other causes, except ap.
peals and writs of error, which are made cognisable in
a circuit court, and shall proceed theieih in the same
manner as a circuit court: "and writs of error and appeals shall lie from decisions therein'to the suoreme
court, in the sare causes as from a circuit court to the
supreme court, and under the same regulations."'
It is contended that this suit, which is an action on a:
bond conditioned to be void on the relanding of 'goods
within the United States, is one of which the district.
courts have exclusive jurisdiction, and thatia wntt of
error would not lie to a judgment given in such a-case.
This court does not concur with the attorney-general
in the opinion that a circuit court has'no frriginal juris.
diction in a case of this description. Butit is unnecessary to" say any thing on this point, becatise it is deemed clear that a writ of error is given in. the case, how*
ever this question might be' decided.
It would be difficult to conceive an inthntioa in the
legislature to discriminate betweenjudgments rendered
by the district court of Kentucky, while exercising the
powers of a district court, and those rendered by the
same court while exercising cirtuit powets, when it is

316
DVRUSS
TT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

demonstrated that the legislature makes no distinction
in the cases from their nature and character. Causes of
J*
~ which the district courts have exclusive original jurisdiction w,e carried itito the circuit courts, and then become
the objects of the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
It would. be strange if, in a:case, where the powers of
the two courts are united in one court, from whosejudgments an appeallies, causes, of which the district courts
have exclusive original jurisdiction, should be excepted
from the operation of the appellate power. It would
require plain words to establish this construction.

iAU

But the court is of opinior that the words import no
such meaning. The construction given by the attorney-general to the word "therein," as used in the last
instance, in the clause of the tenth section, which has
b, en cited, is too restricted. If, by force of this word,
appeals were given only in those causes in which the district court acted as a circuit court exercising its original
jurisdiction, the legislature would not have added the
words, "in the same causes as from a circuit court."
This addition, if not an absolute repetition, could- only
serve to create doubt where no do'-bt would otherwise
exist.
The plain meaning of these words is, that wherever the district court decides a cause which, if decided
in a circuit court, either in an original suit, or on at appbal, would be subject to a writ of error'from the supreme court, .the judgment of the district court shall,
in like, manner, be subiect to a writ of error.
This construction-is, if possible,. renderied still more
bvious byihe subsequent partof the same section,which
describes the jurisdiction of the district court of Maine
in the same terms. Apply the restricted interpretation
to the word, 11iherein," in that instance, and the cir-.
cuit- court of Massachusetts would possess jurisdiction
over causes in which the district court of Maine acted
as a circuit court; and not over those in which it fcted
as a district court; a construction which is certainly
ntot to be tolerated.

FEBRUARY, t1o.

317

Had this judgment been rendered by the" district Dunousszsu
court of Kentucky, the jurisdiction of this court -would THE
have been perfectly clear.
The remaining question adnits of more doubt.
It is said that.the words used-in the-law' creating
the court of Orleans, describe the jurisdiction :and
powers of. that court, not of this, and thato.tfiey-give
no express jurisdiction to this- court. Hence it-is
inferred, with considerable strength of reasoning, that
no jurisdiction exists.
If the question depended singly upon the reference
made in the law creating the court for the territory
of Orleans to "thi court of Kentucky, the correctness of
-It
this reasoning would perhaps be conceded. 1wodid
be found difficult to maintait the propositionthat investing the '3udge of ,the tetritory of. Orleans with- the
same jurisdiction and powers which .were exercised -by
the judge of Kentucky, imposed upon that jurisdiction
the .same restrictions arising from the power of a, superior court, ag were imposed on the court of Kentucky.
But the question, does not depend singly, on,this
reference; it is influenced by other very essential coniderations.
-

-

Previous to the extension of the circuit system" to
the western states, district -courts were erected-in the
states of Tennessee and Ohio, .ind their powers were
described in, the same terms with those which desefibe
,the powers of the court of -Orleans. . The same reference is made to ihe district court of.Kentucy,
Under these laws this' court has taken jurisdiction of
a cause brought by, writ of error from T:ennes.ee.
It is true the question was not moved, and, consei
quently, still remains open. But can it be conceivedto have bevn the intention of the legislature to except,
from the ppellate jurisdiction of the supreme court;
.all the causes, decided in the western country,'except
those decided in Kentucky? Can such an intention

SUPREME COURT U. S.
I

be thought possible?, Ought it to be inferred fron
S. ambiguous phrases?

raoussnAv

The constitution here becomes all important. The
constitution an(. the, laws are to be construed together. It is to be recollected that the appellate
powers of the supreme court are defined in the constitution, subject to.such exceptions as congress niay
make. Congress hasnotexpressly.made any exceptions;
but they are implied from the intent manifested by
the affirmative description of its powers. It would be
repugnant to every principle of sound construction, to
imply an exception against the intent.
This question does not rest on the same principles
as if there had been an express exception to the jurisdiction of this court, and its p9wer, in this case, was to
be implied from the intent of the legislature. The
exception'is to be implied from the intent, -and there
is, consequently, a much more liberal operation to be
given to.the" words. by which the courts of the western
country have been created.
It is believed to be the true intent of the legislature
to place those courts precisely on the footing of-the court
of Kentucky, in every respect, and to subject their
judgmdnts, in the same manner, to the revision of the
supreme court. Otherwise the court of Orleans would,
in fact, be a supreme court. It would possess greater
and less restricted powers than *the court of Kentucky,
which. is, in terms, an inferior court.
The question of jurisdiction being decided, it was
stated by the -counsel that the seven following cases
oti the docket, viz. the cases of Bera and others,. Connelly and others, Castriesand others, Gibbs and others,
Cihis,andothers,Clayand ot hers, and. Keene and others,

against the -United States, all from New Orleans, stood
upon the same pleas of unavoidable accident; excepting
that in thd cases of Bera and others, and Connelly aid

others, the accident was capture by the British, and
prevention by superior force from relanding the goods

FEBRUARY, 1810.

319.

ht the United States. The bond inBera's case was DuioussrA,
dated the 21st of March, 1808. The condition was the T'n . s.
same asin the case ot Darousseau.
P. B. Key," E. Livin.ston, C. Lee, and R. G.
Harper,for the plaintifls in error.
These cases are all within the benefit of the act of,
congress passed the 1.2th of larch, 1808, section S. vol.
9. p. 71. which enacts, " that in every case where
a bond hath been or shall be given to the United STates,
under this act, or under the act entitled ' an act laying
an emb.trgo on all ships and vessels in the ports
and harbours of the United States.' or under the act
supplementary to the last-mentioned act, with condition that certain goods, wares and merchandise, or the
cargo of a vessel, shall be relandcd in some port of t1he
United States; the party or parties to such bond shall,
within four montths -afterthe date of the same, produce
to the collector of the port from which the vessel had
been cleared with such goods, wares, merchandise, or
cargo, a certificate of the relanding of the same from
the collector of the proper port,, on failure whereof the
bond shall be put in suit, and in, every such suit judgment shall he given against the defendant, ordefendants,
unless proof shall be produced of such relanding, or
of loss by sea, or otherunavoidable accident2"
It is contended that this act means loss by sea, of.
loss by other unavoidable accident'; but this corlstruction is contradicttd by the punctuation of the statutei
If it had been intended to have the construction contended for, it would have been pointed thus; unless
proof shall be produced of such retanding or of loss,.
by sea or *other unavoidable accidqzit." The court
can no more alter the punctuation of k statute than ther
words. To give, it the construction contended for, is
to make the legislature speak nonsense it would.
make them say the s a is an accident.
We consider this point as settled by the case of
'The United States v. .Halt and R4orth, at this.term: (ante, p. 171.)

32U
TUOVSE~&

' ' V.U S.

,onts,

SUPREME COURIT U. S;
contrat.

The statute enlarges the obligation of the bond. The
officer is bound to take the bond exactly in the form
prescribed' by the statute.,' There is only one act
which prescribes the form of the bond; but there are
several acts which modify its effect.
The thira embargo act has annexed a new meaning'to
the condition of the bond. A bond taken under a known
law, has ihe meaning and effect declared by that law.
'The act contemplates two excuses, -viz. loss by perils
,f the sea, and loss by superior force; but at all events
thekp must be a loss,.
But in this case there is -not a sufficient averment of
a-fiecessity even of g6ing into the Havannal and there
is'no averment of a loss. The detention at Havanna,
and not the injury by the winds .and waves, is aver,red to be the reason why they could not coniply with
the condition of the bond.
If a vessel be driven by a storm.upon the coast of
an enemy, and there captured, it is not a lo.,s by perils of
-the sea. Peake'. Gases, 130.'Green v. Elmsly. -The.
reinote cause, is never stated ' as the 'cause of' the loss.
And an averment of loss by capture "cannot be supported by evidence of a loss by perils of the sc. 1 Term
Rep. 304. Kulen Kemp v, Vigne. 3 Bos. & Pull. 23.
Matthiewv. Potts. ' Y Trm Rei. 120.
'.The third section of the third embargo act, vol 9. p.
71 requires more strict proof than had been before required' Thelegislature was competepit to say what degfee
jof proof- should be required 'of a bondfide excuse.
They have supposed that ,nothing but the loss of the
thing itself, could-be' satisfactory" evidence of the im_possibility f'complying with the condition-of the bond.
This- is also the true grammatical construction of
the sentence. -After saving proof of relanding, or of
loss by sea, the.ivord-of is oinitred. If proof of
other unavoidable accident was intended to-be admit-

, EBRUARY, J1% __

8.21

ted as an excuse in the same manner as -proofi of loss DuaeAsV8&,-.
by sea, the language would have been, proof of re- Taz, .,8.
landing, or qf loss by sea, or of other unavoidable, accident. If proof of unavoidable accident was int ended as an excuse, they would have said, or other un..
avoidable accident wlhich should akthaljy render-Jr'impossible to reland the goods in the United .tates.
But as -the clause now stands, if our opponents are
right in their construction, proof of'. unavoidable accident will be in excuse, although it be nox such an
accident as would necessarily render, or should actually
have rendered, it impidssilfle to comply .with -the- condition of the bond, whether it produce loss, or-not, and
whether it prevented the relanding, or not.It. does not appear by-the plea that the defendanti
did not make a great profit by the voyage.
.,'liingston, in reply..
We are entitled to the benefit of the, exception of
dangers of the seas in the, condition. of the bond, and
also to the benefit of th exception of unavoidable. iccident in the statute....

-

The plea, states as strong a case of necessity as tnat
of the case of The United.State. Y. Hall. and Worth,
decided by this court at this term.

-

.-

We have made out a clear case both under the exception of dangers -of the: seas, and .under the provision of the statute, in case of unavoidable accident,
No man can be bound to' do -an,impossibility
Insurance cases do.not apply to the present; there
thecontract enumerates a great number o'f risks, and
courts and litigants employ themselves in classing
losses under one or another, of those 'risks. ..In every
other kind of contract, the expression, " dangers of the
seas,"1 means e-very accident -that can happen at sea.
In a bill of lading the master contracts tri deliver the
YqI.VIL

S s

522

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Dunoe -Au goods at, a certain place, the dangers of the seas ex.
Tuz U. S. cepted. No body'ever supposed he would be liable

k

if the'goods should be captured or seized by the suPerior force of public enemies.
The case cited from Bunbury was upon a statute
whith r-quired proof thtt the goods perished in the
sea; but our statute has no such clause.
MARSIALL,

Ch. J. delivered an opinion to the fol

lowing effect:
The court considered many of the points in these
cases while theY had the case of The United States v.
Ball and Worth under consideration, and upon the present argument I understand it to be the unanimous
.opinion of the court, that the law is for the plaintiffs
in error, in all these cases.' I cannot precisely say
what are the grounds of that opinion; I can only state
the reasons which have prevailed in my own mind.
It is true, as contended on the part of the United
States, that the legislature is competent to declare what
evid,-nce shall be received of the facts offered in excuse
for a violation of the letter of a statute.
I also agree with the counsel -for the United States,
that the words of the statute, '. loss by sea or other unavoidable accident," mean loss by sea, or loss by other
unavoidable accident.
Bt3t the question is, what sort of loss is meant? It
must be such a loss as necessarily prevents the party
from compl ing with the condition of the bond. It is
not nectssary that it should be an actual destruction of
the property, hut such a loss only as necessarily prevents the relandiug of the goods,
This statute is not like that upon 'which the prosecu.
tion -was- founded in the case cited from Bunbury.
'Our statute does not require evidence that the goods
have "perish'd in the sea." . It only requires proof of
such a loss, by an unavoidable accident, as prevents the

1PEBRUARY,' 1810. ,

123

reinding of the, cargo, accordingto the condition of DtfwoUSSRA
the bond. When the property is, aptured, and taken Txz, -,.
away by the superior force of a foreign power so as to
prevent the relandingi it is lost within the- meaning of
the ktatute by an unavoidable accident, although the
owner may have received a compensation for it.
JoH,soN, J. I agree with the court in the ie~ult of the
opinion, but not altogether upon the grounds stated by
the Chief Justice. If the act in question will adinit of
two constructions, that should be adopted which is most
consonant with the general pinciples of reason 'and:
justice. I cannot suppose that 'the legislatur'e meant
to do an unjust, or an unreasonable act. No man'
can be bound to do impossibiiities. - The legi.laiure,
,must be understood to mean that the party should lie
excused" by showing the occurrence of-such circum.
Sstances as rendered it impossible to perfdrmn the condition of the bond. To make his liability depchd upon.
the mere point of ultimate loss or gain would be unreasonable in the extreme.
LIVINGSTON, J. I concur in thereversnl of these judg
ments, but notin the construction whichthe Chief Justice
puts upon the third section,of the act of Iarch, 1808.

I If 'the relanding of the cargo' in the :*nit-d States
had been prevented by any unavoidable, accident whatever, although the goods themselves were not lb-t, it
would, in my opinion, have furnished a good defence to
this suit.
If the Spanish government had forced a sale of the
.propefty; and the proceeds had *actually come'fthe
hands of the owners, it 'would have made 'no difference. Loss by sea is one excuse; unavoidable acci-.
dent, whether followed by loss, or not, is-another.--

.

3124
DtFouszAv

SUPREME'COURT U. S.

WASHINGTON and TODD, Justices, agreed in opinion

S. with Judge Livingston.
Judgment reversecI6

TYLER AND OTHERS v. TUEL

.n assignee of

THIS was a case certified from the circuit court of

art
of'
a Pate
a right
fa tcap.
the
',tr

at

maintain

acti,

on

ie case foar

atent.

nolatio
of the

district of Vermont.

Tyler and others, as assignees of Benjamin Tyler,
the original patentee of an improvement in grist-mills,
which he c~lled the wry-fly, or side wheel.
After a verdict for the plaintiffs, the judges of the
court below, upon a motion in arrest of judgment,
were divided in opinickn upon the questi6n *"whether
the plaintiffs, by their own showing, are legal assignees
to maintain this action."
There were two counts in the declaration.
The first set forth the substance of the statutes 'upon
the subject of patents for useful discoveri-s, the facts
necessary to entitle the paentete to a patent for his invention, and the patent itself, together with the -specificationdated February 20, 1800.
The averment of the assignment of the patent right
to the plaintiffs was in these words: "And the plaintiffs further, say, that the said Benjamin Tyler afterwards,to wit, on the 15th day of Mal in the year last
aforesaid, at said, Claremoit, by his cert:in deed, of
that date by him signed, sealed, and to the plaintiffs
then and there by the said Benjamin delivered, and
ready to be shcwn to the court, did in consideration of
the sum of six thousand dollars, to him befisre that
time by the plaintiffs paid, grant, bargain, sell, assign

