SUPREME COURT U. S.
ent on that which precedes it; and, in this case, no
terms are employed which indicate the intention
of
the legislature, prescribing this particular duty, to
make the right to the property dependent on the
performance of that duty.

SCOTT

B,-.

It is, then, the opinion of the majority of he
court, that-the fact of the residence of the plaintiff
below within the United States was open for Txamination, even had his master omitted entirely to make
the proof of that residence before the naval officer,
oi colleetor gf the tax, and, consequently, that the
circuit court erred in refusing to admit testimony
respecting that fact.
The opinion of the court on this point renders a:
decision on the other exceptions uinecessary.

FIELD AND OTHERS v. HOLLAND AND
OTHERS.

[he
reportapof
Loditts,

muintedbycon._t
. a a paotis
sit i n
quity, is not
n the nature

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
Georgia, in a chncery suit, in which Field, Hunt,
Taylor and Robeson, were complainants, and
Holland, Melton, Tigner, Smith, Cox and Dougherty,
were defendants.

)f an award
)y arbitratort,
ext ma; be set
iside by the

The decree of the court below dismissed, the bill

mither fraud,
:orrn
ptlon, or
)artiality,

The bill stated that, on the 21st of July, '1787, M-i

iourt, although as to all the defendants.

jah Wiliamsan obts ined from the state of Georgia
a grant of, 12,500 acres in Franklin county, in that
state. On the 9th of July; 1788, Williamson 4onWithout ex- veycd to Sweepson, who, on.the 23d of July, 1792,
,resay revo- conveyed to Cox, Who, on the 3d of September, 1794,
Og an orde
freference to conveyed to Naylor, who, on the 18th of: December,
llet,

ois.
c
on the

iart

of the filitors, be profed.

Luihtors,

the 1794, conveyed-to the cbmplainant Field, and one

FhBk'UARY, 1810.

9

Harland, as tenants inucommon,- and that Harland
afterwards conveyed -his undivided interest to the
other coniolaintxts,

FIZLD

;r..

,.ND.
Wft. /

court may dl-

That-the, defendants' VIeltdn, Tigner and Smith, r deissue to
claim title to the land in virtue of a sale, made by" A court of
,the sheriff to the defendant' Melton, upon two writs equitr mAy as,of fierifacias, founded upon judgments obtained.by certain
the
-the defendant "follandagainst the defendant Coq; @elves, if the
evidence
1794 ?bles
one in the year 1793, for 115561. the other iri
them toenado
.fQr3,0001. which executions were levied, and sales it, or imay re.
nade thereon in 1799. That the complainants were fcir theauey
ignorant-of those judgments at the time ",f.theii or to auditors.
purchase. That the judgments, or the greater part After an issuf ordered,
by Cox before the court
of equitya
•
thereof, were paid and discharged
executions issued thereon; but the sheriff, well may proc.eed
knowing fie same, proceeded to levy and sell, &c.
to a final' detrying the is,

setting
aside orthe
orThat John Gibbons, the complainants' agent, exhi- sue,

bitd"to the 'sheriff an affidavit stating that the exe-

der.

answer
cutions had issued ilregally, on which it became the fThe
a-defendant
duty of the sheriff to retutn the same into court, and is evidence
the,
discontinue ministerial proceedings thereon until.the against
judgment of the court whence the executions issued though it be
was first had and obtainedjin the premises, according doubtful whedecree
to the provisions of the act in such case made and ther a
-provided, The ..affidavi of Gibbon, state.d, that the against such
executions were illegal because -they had not been deeaan:
of ode defendcredited with a partial paymeni-made by,Cox.
" e.

ant is evidene
c~ther
aganst

The bill states that the sheriff's sale was fraudu-.defenda-ts
thr'
lently made with
him.
• a view to get the land at a"very low claiming
price ; the sale being for 300 dollars; and the land The plaintiffs
worth 25,000. That the putchasci'.-Melton; at the cannot avail
time of'his purchase, knew of the complainants' tite, themsever 'of
and indemnified the sheriff for proceeding in the sale, a defendant.
and agreed that he should participate in its benents.'wholsubstan-l.
tiff; it is not
ato-

evidencea
1-87
MELTON'S answer states, that in the year
atgainst
ff

naving land warrants, he surveyed three tracts of defelndat.
i
920 acres each, on what be then supposed was vadalt'If f either the
debtor, nor
lthe
land, but which appears now to be within William- creditor, ha
oTOL
Vt.

B

SUPREME COURT U. S.
son's elder grant, of which he had no intimation till
the year 1 '97, when he had sold parts of his surveys.
SFinding that Naylor had Williamsdn's title, and bemide tim ap- ing desirous of protecting the titles of so much of
!p~athn of the ,land as he had sold,, he purchased of Naylor
the paynients, the court will 4,505 acres; That with the same view,he afterwards
purchased a judgment against Naylor, which he dist
apply them
uhtch the se-covered was prior to Naylor's deed to him; upon
FeL-

I OL,.AND.

euruy is ,n!ot this judgment, he caused an execution to be issuerd,
precarious. and-levied upon the Lnd which he bought in.at a

fair sale, under the execution, for 300 dollars. That
afterwards,' inding that the land had been sold for
taxes, and purchased by George Taylor, he purchased Taylor's claim, and paid hifm 300 dollars for it.
That in June, 1799, he first heard of the claim of the
coriplainants, and made a verbal agreement with
Gibbong, their "agent, for the purchase thereof, at a
dollar an aere; but finding Holland had a priorjudgment against Cox which bound the land, and which
he was about to enforce by an execution and sale of
the land, and Gibbons having failed to compromise
"with Holland, or otherwise to stop the sale, he
(Melton) agreed with Holland that he (Melton)
should become the pdrchaser at the sale, and would
pay -Holland 1,500 dollars for, the land without regard
to the sum at which it might be struck off to him,
That this was done
which sum he has paid..
without any; fraudulent intention, and to secure his
title; beingfully satisfied that the lands were liable
to the judgments.
The answer of Dougherty, the sheriff, denies all
fraud, combination, and interest in the transaction,
and avers, that he acted merely in the discharge of
his official duty; and that-the sale was fair and bona
fide.
Smith's answer is immaterial, as it relates only to
75 acres of the land which he claimed under a title
prior to the complainants.
Tigner answers.merelv as tW 3.57 acres whi'ch he
_purchased of the defendant Melton, i 9 the year i797.

PEBRUARY, 1810.

11

Holland's answer states, that subsequlent to' the
two judgments, he made large advances to Cox in
goods, ind took his obligations.
It states sundry payments and negotiations" made
-by Cox, particularly three drafts, or inland bills of
exchange, givefi by. Cox to Holland in February,
1795, and payable inMay, June, and July follosving,
for which Holland gave the following' receipt:
"Washington, 21st February, 1795. Received from
Zachariah Cox, Esq. three sets of bills of exchange,
'dated the 5th and 15th instant, for twenty thousand
dollars, payable'in Philadelphia, which' wheh paid will
be on account of my demand agazinst said Cox."
That in September, 1796, a settlement took place
between Cox and Holland, of all their transactions
distinct from, and independentof, the two judgments,
and Hollan'd took Cox's note. for 18,000 dollars for
the balance, and gave a receipt, with a stay of execution 'upon the two judgments for three years.
That the judgments "never were dormant, but
have been regqlarly kept-alive and remainunsatisfied."
That. it was an established rule between Cox and
Holland, that all payments made were to go to the-

disch'arge of running and liquidated accounts, independent of the judgments, and that mode of settlement was adopted on their'last settlennt in 1796.
The answer of Cox states, positively, that'thejydg.
ments were paid and satisfied, as early as the'14th of
September, 1796; by settlement of-that date, when the
parties "passed receipts in full of all past transactions.
That the three bills of exchange, amounting to
20,000 dollars, were by him delivered to Holland on
ac'count of the two.judgnients, and .that the" bills
have been duly paid and dischirged.
That the'settlement of the 14th of September,
1796, was a final setlement of all accounts prior to
that day, including judgments, INonds, notes, and

FXELD
HoLLAND.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'inLn all dem'ands whateCer up to that time and fiarlicuoi, ,dN. larly the judgments in question. That they exchanreceipts in full, (" which receipt the defendant
Sged
has lost or mislaid.") That, upon the settlement
being made, Holland promised and verbally engaged
to enter up satisfaction upon the said judgments.
The evidence on the subject of the' payment of the
judgments consisted principally of Mr. 'Vaughan's
deposition, and'the letters and receipt of Holland
for the bills for 20,000 dollars.
Mt. Vaughan stated, that althougn he had no particular knowledge how Holland and Cox- settled, yet
hen a new advance was made by Holland to Cox,
after the '14th of September, 1796,. he understood
the old concern was settled. In a letter from Holland t' Vaughan of the 18th of April, 1795, enclosing
the bills for 20,000 dollars, he says, "'youx will oblige
me much by procuring the payment of these bills.
I have delayed the execution and sale of Mr. Cox's
pioperty to the great 4njury of my own affairs, and I
request you may assure him that slimild the bills
not be paid immediately, the consequence must be
an assignment of the judgment against him, the result of which will be an immediate sale of. his proeyty, which I will not be able to prevefit, unless his
punctuality in this instance steps forward." "The
late stoppage, of Mr. Morris and Nicholson, I am
fearful may affect them, but as they, together With
Mr. Greenleaf, are concerned with Mvr. Cox, inthe
valuable property which my execution is upon, I expect they willfor their own sahes see me satisfied, and
these drafts paid, to prevent worse' consequencei."J
He afterwards sys, ' ,have not seeurity;by judgment to the emtent of my debt -against him." ' He
also Urges Mr. Vaughan to obtain security from Cox
in case the bills should not -be paid. In a letter of
May 29, 1795, Holland again says, 1I hope yowill be able to make some dtrrangeuxet t.for the payment of the 18,000 dollars, as Ifeel a reluctance in
pushing the execution I. have against the property of,

FEBRUARY, J810.
mr. Cox, although by doinr so I. would, make come
thousands." ,,0W.
It appeared fr6m Mr. Vaughan's account -with
Cox,'as state'd in his deposition, that the bills7-for
20,000 dollars, and also a draft 6n I. Nicholson for
-2,570 dollars, and 10 per cnt. damages.on the 20,000
"dollars, excepting a balance of.about 1,500 dollars,
had been paid before the 6th of February, 1796;
aud Mfr. Vaughan had given up to Cox his. drafts of
18,000 dollars, and 1,000, and 3,00 dollars, all of
-which had been given to Holland on account of
prior claims. On the 23d of December, 1803,_it was
agreed by the'parties to this suit, that W. W. . W.,
and' . C., or any two of them be appointed auditors, with p6wer to exdmine all papers and documents 'relative to payments made by 'Zachariah
Cox, in'satisfaction of judgments -'obtained by"Holland against him, and charged in the bill to be satisfied.
On the 2"1st of April, 1804,, the auditors ieported
that they were of opifiion, from the papers-laid before them by both parties, that the judg~eints had
been satisfied by.pavyments made prior to February,
1796.
Upon exceptions b ing taken to this-report, it was
set aside on the 14th of May, i804o, and G. A., .
P. W., and E. S. -were appointed aiiditors by the
court, to report whether th6 judgments were really
satisfied; and that. they report a statement of the
.
payments made on the judgments.
On the 7tlh of December, 1804, those audit irs
reported that they were of opinion that no payments
appear to have beep made on the judgments, no
vouchers haying betn produced to that effect."
To this-report exceptions were filed on the-'14th
of Decemhber, 1804. It does not appear 'upon the
recdrd that any order was takea either respectitg
the report or the exceptions to it.

F.n-la

14
FIELD

V

HoLLAND.

SUPREMECOURT U. S.

On the 17th of Mayj, 1805, the'court decreed, that
the bill should be dismissed with costs as to Melton,
Dougherty, Smith and Tignet; and that Holland
should bring an action of debt upon the judgments
against Cox, who -was to appear by attorney and
plead. payment, upon the trial of which issue, the
bill, answers, exhibits, and testimony in this cause
,was to be considered as evidence.
No other notice is taken of the order for an issue
at law, and on the 15th of May, 180 , the court
passed the following decree.
"This -cause is involved in much obscurity, but,
upon mature deliberation, we are of opinion that
there is- sufficient grotund for us to decree upon.
The defendant Holland is in possession of a judgxnent against Cox, which the latter contends is satisfied, and one of the objects-bf tJ~is bill is to have
satisfaction entered of record upon the 'Said judgment. i he only difficulty aises upon the application,
of sundry payments whicf the complainants contend
extinguished.the judgment, but whiih the defend'nt
Holland replies were -applicable to other demands.
The principle on which the court has determined to
.decree is this; that all paymcnt- shall be applied
to debts existing when they were made, and ag it
appears that there were stmdry demands of Holland's
on Cox which 'were not secured by judgment, that
those sums -shall be first extinguished, and the
balance only .applied to the judgments.
"This application Of those payments is supported by
general principles, as well as the partiular circumstances of the case.
"1. The payer had a right at the time of payment
to have a'plied it to which .debz-he pleased wherz
a nuinber existed, but if he neglects to do so,
generally, it rests in the option of the receiver to
make the application. In this case Cox takes'his
receipts generally. Even when the large payment

15

FEBRUARY, 1810.

of 20,OOQ dollars was made, he, takes a receipt on
account.
"2. It appearA that the application of. those payments has, actu'ally beqn made in the manner we
adjudge; for from a letter of Mr.'Vaughan, through
whom most of the payments were inade, he intimates
that he had given up the evidences of several debts
to Cox, -because they had been satisfied. Such an
actcould only have been sanctioned by. a knowledge
on hi part that the mopey paid through him'was
in part applicable to.those debts.
"The sums which we adjudge to have-been due to
Holland' are the following, viz.
1.

8.

1,556 0
Amount of first judgment,
Interest from 1st of May, 1793,
3,000 0
Amoutit of second judgment,
Interest from 21st of June, 17-93,
332 10
Amount of acknowledged account,
Interest from lth Februaryi 1794,
Note of Marcj 1,1794, int. Feb. 1, 1794,.,278 0
1,500 0
Note due 1st'May, 1794,
.Intdrest from 1st May, 1794.

d.

0
0
7
.
,0

"The payments made by Cox are-the.following:
I. s. d.
1t 15 .
179.4, May 25th, amount paid,
1,563 17 10
June_25th, amount paid,
1795, Feb. 21, amount of bills 020,000, 4,666 18- 4
. 26, amount paid,
28 0 0
Bills on Greenleaf,.

Bills on Cox -himself,'

.

0

0

11 13

4

700

"Upon the foregoing data, the register will state
the account between: -the parties, calculating iriterest
upon the whole amount bearinig intetest to the time
of payment, and applyihg the payments according
to their dates."
The register- having, upon these principles i stated'

V
HOLLAN~D.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
$'r LD

an occotgrit, 'by which a balance of 11,086 doilars
, remained still due on the judgments, the court,
~by a final decree, 'dismissed the bill; and the complainantg sued out their writ of error.
,f7oe and Hraerp, for the plaintiffs in error, contendedi
1. That the court below erred in setting aside the
report of the auditors who had been appbinted by
copscmt. Their report: was like an award, which
cannot be set aside but for fraud, or partiality, or
gross mistake.
2. In not having decided upon .the exceptions
taken to 'the second report of the auditors.
3. -In not enforcing or setting aside the order to
try an issue.
4. In dismissing the bill as to the purchasers, and
retaining it as to Holland. The purchasers had
notice of the payment 'of the judgments. The
plaintiffs, at the 'time of the sale, could not be presumed.to h'ave known the full extent of the payfiihs made. 'It was sufficient that the purchasers
had'notice of the complainants' claim, and that the
validity of the sale would be disputed.
The 20,0o0 dollars,' inbills, ought to be applied
to thp judgments, because that is most beneficial to
the payer, as fno other debt was then bearing interest. The receipt is upon account of Holland's
demand; evidently alluding 'to the single demand
on the judgments. If it had been intended as a ge-feralpayment, it would have been on accotui'ft of his
demands, in the plural.
The objec; of the bill is to set aside the sheriff's
sale to Melton. He is the only real defendant.
Holland is only incidentally interested. It would
have been no cause of demurrer if he had not 'been.
made a party. Nor is Cox a necesa-y party,

IVEBRUARY,

'1810.

17

It is triie that the answer of one defendant canIf one
defendant wishes to avail himself of the testimony
of another, he must take out a commission and examine him as a. witness. Holland's answer is no
more evidence in favour of Melton, than' Cox's answer is evidence against him. Holland's answer, is.
only evidence for himself, and no decree is sought
against him. If, then, the answers of Cox and Holland'are both excluded, the only evidence Is Vaughan's deposition, and Melton's answet. If Holland's
and Cox's answer be both admitted, the result, will
be the same, for one destroys the other.. Cox is
not discredited by Vaughan'%deposition. The only
facts proved are the two judgments and the payment
of 20,000 dollars.

inot be taken as evidence against another.

If money.be paid on account, it is to be applied,
in equity, most beneficially for the debtor. It is not
now in'the power of the creditor to apply it to which
demand he pleases. If neither party,- at. the time,
of payment, made the application, it is the province
of the court of equity tomake it now. The court
is to judge, from all'the circumstances of the case,
what was the intention of the parties, and what application of the money would be most beneficial to
the debtor.
Vaughan considered it as a settlement of all
%
accounts.
Notice that t'hejudgment was sati-fied was not
necessary; the purchaser was bound to take noticecaveat emptor. But if notice was necessry; enough
was given to put the purchaser upon inquiry.
M'ARSEALL, Ch. J. Can ifhe sheriff, in Georgia,
sell the whole of a largd tract for a small debt?: or
must he confine himself to the sale of enough to
pay the debt.

JanNsoN, J.
YIL

Vol.

The sheriff cafinot. divide a. tract

FuEL
L.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S:
r1,LD
HOLLAND.

of land. If there are several tradts of land, he mar
sell that which comes nearest,to the-sum.
Harper. An objection has been made to the
copy of the deed from Williamson to Sweepson,"
that it does not appear that the original deed was
recorded in due time.
But this objection comes too late in the appellate
court. Not hilvingbeen made in the court below,
it must be considered as having been waived.
The first report of the auditors was pursuant to
their authority, and can only be impeached for coriuption, or gross impropriety of conduct, or mistake
appearing upon the record.
F. S. Key and C. Lee, contra.
The report made by auditors, under an order
made by consent, may be set aside as well as a report made -by auditors under a reference made by
the sipple orter of the court.
This rbp6rt was excepted to becaise the.auditors
report only their, bpinion generally, that the judg-,
ments were satisfied, and do not report the payments
in particular, which had bden made upon them.
LIVINGSTON, J. It does not appear what, was
done with tho§e exceptions.

Key. It is to be presumed that they were properly disposed of. The cause was afterwards fully
heard.,
The second report states, that no payments appear
to have -been made upon the judgments. The exce'ptions to this report wbre abandoned.
As to the issue ordered to be tried, it was a mere
interloputory or4er, which the court *as not bbund
to pursue; but might, if they thought proper, pro

FEBRUARY,

1810.

19

ceed to a final hearing without trying the issue, or
setting it aside formally.

No notice that the judgments were satisfied, is
averred or proved. The payments were not made
upon the judgments, and havb been properly applied to other accounts.
If Cox did not at the time direct to which account the payments should be applied, Holland
might apply them to which account he pleased.' If
neither party has applied them, the court will apply
them to claims not secured by judgments.
Every debt due to Holland from Cox made but
one demand. The notes due to Holland were payable in May; the bills for 20,000 dollars did not become due till after May, although drawn in February. If the bills were given on-account of' the judgments, there would have been a stay of execution
until'the bills became payable. When arrested in
Philadelphia, Cox did not allege that the judgments
had been satisfied; nor is it averred in his answer.
No good title is shown from Williamson. The
original deed is not produced, and it does not appear from the copy whether the original was recorded in due time.
The first auditors exceeded their authority; they
were only authorized *to do a ministerial act, but
they assumed to act judicially.
The report of.the second auditors was'correct;
they were competent to say that no payments had
ben made upon the judgments. Cox's answer is
no evidence against Holland. If the complainants
wished to avail themselves of Cox's fescimony, they
ought to have taken out a commission and examined
him.*
But Holland's answer is evidence for him and

FXnLP
I

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FrELD
11OLLAWD.

those claiming under him, and is conclusive unless
contradicted by two witnesses.
Cox's answer is discredited in a material point,
viz. -the- payment of' the judgments.
This court decided in the case of the ,Mayor &
Commonalty of Alexandria v. Pattan & others, (ante, v. 5. p. 1.) that if the debtor do not, at the time of
payment, direct to which account it shall be /applied,
the creditor may at any time afterwards apply it-to
which account he pleases. In equity, all debts bear
interest.
PFebru<.ru 12.
IARsHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows':

In this case some objections have been made to
the regularity of the proceedings in the circuit 6ourt,
which will be considered before the merits of the
controversy are distussed.In May term, 1803, the following order was
made.
"-B5 consent of parties, it is agreed, ihat William Wallace, Jarmeq Wallace and John Cumming,
or any two of them, be appoihited auditors, who
shall have power to examine, all papers and docu-

ments relative to payments made by Zachariah Cox,
in satisfaction of judgments obtained by said Holland against said Zacharith, and charged in said bill
to be satisfied, and that the testimoiiy of John Vaughan, taken by complainants before Judge Peters,
and now in the clerk's office, may be produced
by them to said auditors. And it is further agreed,
that said auditors may meet at any time after the
first day of April next, and not before, on ten days'
notice giveti to the adverse party."
The auditors returned the following report.
" We are of opinion, from the papers laid before

fEBRUARY, 181o.

21

us, by both' parties, that the judiments in the above
by.payments made pribr to
case .have been satisfie'd
'
February, 196."

On exceptions this report.was set aside.
By the plaintiffs in error it is contended, that the
order under which the auilit6rs proceeded war
equivalent to a reference of the cause by consent,
and thatrheir report is to be considered as -anaward
obligatory on all, the parties, unless set aside for
some of-those causes, which are admitted, to vitiate
an award. But this court is unanimiously of opinion. that the view taken of this p9int by. the
iricorrect. The order in question bears
plaintiffs is.
no -eseimblance tb a rule of court referting a cause.
to arbiters. It is a reference to "auditors," a term
which designates* agents or officers of the cqurt, who
examine and digest accounts for the decision'of the
court. They do not decree, but prdpare materials
on which a decree may be made. The order in
this case, so far from implying that the decisibn of
the auditors shAll be made the decree of the court,
does not even" require, in termsy that the auditors
st1al form any opinion whatever. They are merely
directed. to .examine all 'papers and-,documerfts relative to payments made in satisfaction of the jiudgments.

Frbm the nature of their duty they were bound
to report to the court, and to state the result of
their exafninatiof, but this.report was open to exceptibn, and liable to be set aside. 'In the actulal
case the report was a very unsatisfactory one, and
was,'On that account, as well as on account of the
objections to its -accuracy, very.properly set aside.
The cause was agiin referred to auditors, who reported that no evidence had been offered to them of
payments. to be credited on the judgments alleged
by the plaintiffs to have been discharged.
The defer'dants insist that this. report oughi to

FIELD
L.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FIELD

v.

.

have terminated the cause. But the court can perceive no reason for this opinion. If tl~ere were exhibits in the cause which proved that payments
had
been made, the plaintiffs ought not to be deprived
of the benefit of those payments, because the auditors had not noticpd the vouchers which established
the fact.
The court, without making any order relative to
this report., directed an issue for the purpose of
ascertaining, by the verdict of a jury, the credits
to which the plaintiffs were entitled.
It was completely in the discretion of the court
to ascertain this fact themselves' if the testimony
enabled them to ascertain it; or, if it did not, to
.refer the question either to a jury, or to auditors.
There was, "consequently, no error, either in directing this issue, or in discharging it.
But, ,without trying the issue, or setting aside
the order, the court has made an interlocutoiy decree, deciding the merits of the case by specifying
b6th the debits and credits which might be intioduced
into the account, and directing their clerk t-6 state.
an account in conformity with that specificatiom
This interlocutory decree is undoubtedly an implied discharge of the order directing an issue, and
is substantiilly equivalent to such discharge. Had
the issue been set aside, in terms, in the body of the
decree, or by a previous order, it would have been
more formal, but the situation of the case and of the
parties would have been essentially the same. The
only real. obj ction to the proceeding is, that the parties might not have been prepared to try the cause'in
court, in consequence of their expectation that it
wguld be carried before a jury. There is, however,
no reason to believe that this could have been the
fact. Had there been any objection to a hearing on this
ground, it would certainly have been attended to, and,
if overruled, would'have been respected by this court.
But no objection appears to have been made, and
6

FEBRUARY, 1810.

23

the inference is, that the cause was believed to be
ready for a trial.
These preliminary questions being disposed of, the
court is brought to the merits of the case.
The.plaintiffs claim title tp a tract of land in the
state of Ge'orgia, under several mesne -conveyances
from Micajah Williamson,.the original patentee. In
the year 1793, while these lands were- the property
of Zachariah Cox, one of the defendants, two judgments were rendered against him in favour 6f'John"
Holland-, alsp a defendant, for the sum of 4,556.
sterling.. These judgments remained in force until
the year f 799, when executions were issued on
them, which were levied on the lands of the' plaintiffs held under conveyances from Cox, made subsequent to the rendition, of the judgments. John
Gibbons, the agent of the plaintiffs, objected to the
sale, because the judgments were satisfied either. in
whole or in part, but as he failed to take the steps
prescribed in such case by the ,laws of Georgia, the
sheriff proceeded,,and the lands were sold to Melton
and others, who are also defendants in the cause.
This bill is biought to set aside the sale and conveyance made by the sheriff; and it als-6 contains a
prayer for general relief.
As the judgments constituted a legal lie3 on the
lands in question, and the title at law passed to the
purchasers by the sale and conveyance- of the public
pfficer; the plaintiffs must show an. equity superior
to that of the persons who hold the legal estate.
That equity is, that the legal estate wawacquired
under judgments which were satisfied, and that sufficient notice was given to the purchasers7. to put them
on their guard.
If the facts of ithe cause slipport this allegation,
the equity of the plaintiffs m'ust-be acknowledged;
but it is incumbent on them to make oit their case.

FiaLD
L

.

24
F]'za.
ir.LAVU,

'relative

SUPREME COUR

u. S.

In the threshold of this inquiry it becomeg necegsary to meet an objection suggested by the.pl-aintiffs
to the testimony of the cause. It is alleged
that neither Holland nor Cox are ne.es's;Ay or proper parties, and that their answers are both to. 6e
excluded from consideration.
The correctness of this position cannot be admitted. The, whole equity of the plaintiffs depends on
the- state of accounts between Holland and Cox.
They undertake to prove. that the judgments- ob,tained by Hollard against Cotx are satisfied. Surelv
to a suit instituted for thi' purpose, Holland and
Cox are not only proper but 'necessary parties. Had
they been omitted, it would be incumbent on the
plaintiffs to account for the omission, by showing
that it was not in their power to make them parties.
Not only are they essential to a settlement of accounts between themselves, but, in a possible state
"ofthings, a decree might ha-.e been rendered against
one or both of them. Neither is -it to be admitted
that the answer of Holland is not testimony. against
the plaintiffs. He .is the party against whom the
fact, that the judgments were discharged, is to be
est,'blished, and against whom it'is'to operate. This
fact,'when established, it is true, affects the purchasers also, but it affects them consequentially, and
through him. It ffccts tlhem as representing him.
Consequently, when the fact is established against or
for him, it binds them.
The' plaintiffs themselvea call upon Holland for a
discovery. They aver that thejudgments were discharged, and expressly/require hidi to answer- this
allegation. They cannot now be allowed to say tfiat
this answer is. no testimony.
The situation of Cox is different. Though nominally a defendant, he is substantially a plaintiff.
Their interest is his interest: their object is hig object. He- as Wvell as the plaintiffs, endeavours to
"show that the judgments were satisfied. He is fot
t6 be considered as reallv a defendant, nr does the

FEBRUARY, 1810o

25

bill charge him with colluding to defraud the plain-w FXLP
tiffs, or require him to answer the chargeof contri- HoLL.AND
.
buting to the imposition alleged to havte been prac- \.tised on them. It is not in the power of the plaintiffs, in such a case, to avail themselves of the answer
of a paMy wb-, ;s, in reality,. thouzh not in form, a
plaintiff;
The answer of the defendant Holland, then, where
it is responsive -to the bill, is evidence against the
plaintiffs, although the answer of Cox. is not testimony against Holland.
The evidence in the cause, thea, is the answer of
Holland, the deposition of Vaughan, and the various
exhibits and documents of debt which are found in
the record. Does this testimony support the interlocutory decree which was rendered in May term,
1805?

That decree specifies the debits and credits which
are to be allowed, and directs a statement to be
made showing how the account will stand, allowing
the specified items.
To thih order two objections may be made.-,
1. That it ought to have been more gerneral.
this ie overruled,

If

2. That its principles are incorrect,
Upon the first objection it is to be observed, that
a court of chancery may, with perfect propriety,
refer an account generally, and, on the return of the
report, determine such questions as may be contested
by the parties ; or it may, in the first instance, decide an principle which the evidence in the cause
may suggest, or all the principles on which the" account is to be taken. The propriety of the one
course or of the other depends on the nature of the
case. Where items are numerous, the testimony
questionable, the aicounts complicated, the stiperior
VOl. Vt.

.

26
FiELD
IIV.

SUPREME COURT U. S,

advanuage 'of a general reference, with a direction to
state specially such matters as either party may reSquire, or the auditors may deem necessary, will readily be perceived.
Where the account depends on particular princi.
pies which-are developed in the cause, the convenience of establishing those principles before the report is taken will also be acknowledged.
The discretion of the judge *ill be guided by the
circumstances of the case, and his decree ought not
to be reversed because he has pursued the one course
or the other, unless i, shall appear either that injustice -has been actually done, or that there, is reason
to apprehend it has been done.
In this case it might, perhaps, have been more
satisfactory had the parties been permitted to lay all
their claims and all their objections before auditors,
so tiat the precise points of'difference between them,
and the teetinmony upon those points, might be
brought in 'a single view before the courts
But it is to be observed that two orders of refer-ence had before been made, on neither of which
was a satisfactory report obtained.. That an issue
had been directed, which had, for .several terms, remained untried. The probability is, that the controv ersy depended less on items than on principles, and
that all parties were desirois- of obtaining frojn the
court a decision of those prineiples. Thatno debits nor
credits were 'claimed but those which were stated in
the papers, and that all parties wished the opinion of
the court, on the.effect and application of those items.
fUnder such circumstances, a judge would feel much
difficulty in withholding his opinion.
In such a case the justice of th&cause 'could be
defeated only by the exclusion of some item which
ought to be admitted, or by an brroneous direction
with respect to those items which were introduced.

I FEBRUARY, 181o.

27

This court perceives in-the record, no evidenca of
any credit to which'the defendant Cox might be en-.
titled, which is not comprehiended in the-reiapitulation of credits allowed him in the circuit court, and
they are the more inclined to believe that-no such
omission was made, as'the fact would certainly have
been sutgested by the counsel for the plaintiffs, and
the - circumstances, under which they claimed the
item disallowed by the court, would have been
spread upon the record. It is true, an additional
-credit is claimed in the assignment of errors; but-the
testjimony in the record does not support this claim.
The majority of the court, therefore, is of opinion,
that there is no'error in the interlocutory decree,
unless it shall appear that ihe 'principles it establishes
are incorrect.
The items claimed -by.Holland, and allowed by the
.court, are supported by documents, the obligation of
which has not been disproved.
There is, then i no questiou on the merits but this.
Were the payments properly applied by; the court,Or
were they-applicable, to the judgments '
The principle) that- a debtor may control, at will,
.the application of his payments, is not controverted.
Neither is it denied that, on his omitting, to make
this application, .the power devolves on the creditor.
If this .pewer be exercised by neithef',it becomes the
duty of th. court; and, ipi itr performance, a sound
discretion is to be-exercised.
It is -contended by the plaintiffs that if the payments have.beenapplied by neither the creditor nor
the debtor, they ought to be applied in the manner
most advantageous to the debtor, because it must 6.e
presumed that:such was his intentiolThe correctness of this conclusion cannot be conceded. When a debtor fails to avail himself of the.
power which he poisesses in consequence of which

Ft1SL

HoL

28
FIZ

HPrL,.A,.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

that power.devolves on.the creditor, it does not appear unreasonable to suppose that he is content with
manner in which the, creditor will exercise it.
If neither party avails himself of his power,. in consequence of which it devolves on the court, it would
seem reasonable that an equitable application should
be made. It being equitable that the- whole debt
should be paid, it cannot be inequitable to extinguish
first those debts for which the security is most
precarious. That course has been pursued in the
present case.

Sthe

But it is contended, that bills for 20,000 dollars
were received, and have been applied in discharge
of debts which bec.1me due two months afterwards.
It the receipt given for these bills, purported to
receive them in payment, this objection wQuld be
conclusive. If an immediate credit was to be given
for theis, that credit must be given on a debt
existing at the 'time, unless this legal operatib of
the credit should be changed by express agreament.
But the receipt for these bills does. not import that
immediate credit was to be given for them. Their
are to be credited when paid. The time of receiing
payment onthem is the time when the credit was to be
given ;. and, consequently, the power of application,
which the creditor possessed, if no agreement to
the contrary existed, was then to be exercised. It
cannot be doubted that he might have cr-dited
the sums so received to any debt actually demandable at the time of receiving such sum, unless this
Dower was previously abridged by the debtor.
It is contended that it was abridged; and that
this is proved by the form of the receipt. The receipt states, that the bills, when paid, are to be
creditedi on account of the demand of Holland
against Cox, and the plaintiffs insist that tbe words
import a ,single. demand, and one existing at the
time the receipt was given.
This court is not of that opinion.

The whole

FEBRUARY, 1810.

29

Frmu
debt due from one man to the other,, may well constitute an aggregate sum not. improperly, designated 11, v.
by the term demand, and the receipt may very fairly
be understood to speak of the demand existing
when the credit'shoutd be gien.
If the principles. previously stated be cprrtct,
there is no -evidence in the cause which er ,bles this
court to say that there was -not due, on the judgments obtained- by .Holland- against Cox, -a -sum
more, than equal to thevalue, of .the lands --sold under execution. If so, the plaintiffs have no equity
against the purchasers of those lands, whose conduct appears-tp have been perfectly,:unexceptiona:bh, and the bill' both as to them and Holland, was
pro.perly dismissed.
It i the opinion of the majority of the court,
thatthere is no error in the proceedings of -the -tir'Cult court, and that the decree be affirtned.

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY,WJ,
WOODS.

ERROR to the circuit court, for- the district of -inan actio,.
MaryJand, in an action bf .covenant, upon two poli- upon a polioy
one--upon the schooner William ", poperty
cies of insurance,
Marywarrantneu& Mary, Travers-, -master, -and the other upon her tral, "proof of
rewhich tdbe
cargo, "-from Baltimore to 'Laguird, ith -liberty quired
in tho
United
States
of one, other neighbouring port, and -at.and from
a 'senonly," of
'them,. or either of them, back-to Baltimore." The tence
can"Confess- deination i a
policy c.ontained- the-following clause
ing ourselVes paid. the -consideration .due unto us foreign court
f6r the assurance of the said assured, or-his assigns, poir the
of
after the rate of seven and one-half-per cent. on?. car- ground
go, by. said vessel warranted by. the,-assured to be 'brach sf blot
.Americanproperty, and that the vessel -isan A rerr- connesirive. vi.
of vacainn of.a
intethe. denUecan bottom, proof of which to be- requiredinUnited States only. Insured against all.-risks. the warrant.
-

-

