06
MAR. IN.Co.

V.

THE ,MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
ALEXANDRIA

JIODOSOH

Te refusal
of an inferior
court to allow
a plea to be

-amended, or a
new plea to be

SUPREME COURT U; S.
.HODGSON.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district "of Co-'
lumbia,
The former judgment of the coiurt below in, thib

filed,
or to cause, in favour of the now plaintiffs in error, 'having
grant
a new- been"
reversed inisrue
ibis court, and the cause sent back fot
titl, Otoconh 'trial
Scuse te
ssues of fact," the plaintiffs in error,
cannot be as- before the cause could'he regularly called for trial-ac-

sier.d as er- cording to the rules and practice of the court, moved
After a cause the court belo
foe'leavet6 amend the pleadings by
isremanded to

the

inferior adding to the f6rmer.eight pleas, a ninth And a tent/i

court,

such plea, in the words following:

court may receive addzonAlpleas, or ad-

9th plea. And the said defendants, by their attor.
amond- ney aforesaid, by leave of the court, and by virtue of
meas to those
frand provided,for
casas msay, ade
such be
already
even afterfled,
the the
thorstatutes
-plea in this
behalf
that
'the said plaintiff
apellate court
a
decided
oug
notto have and maintain- his action aforesaid
mit

such pleas to igainst them, because they say, that the said marine inlerbad upon surance company (by the act of assembly of Virginia
In an action incorporating said company, which act of assembly
of covesant on they now bring here into court) are authorized to
a policy under
sea4 all special

make -rules aid regulations for the conducting the, bumatter of de- siness of the said corporation, and that one of theii

fence must be
pleaded. Un- said rules- ard regultions requires that every order
the plea
of for insurance shall -be made in writing, and hall con¢ er
cnnt
per-

formed, the de- tam the name of the vessel and master, the place from
.fendast
cannot"whence and to which insurance is required to be made,
give eridehee
which goes to with as full a description of the vessel and voyage as
vacate the poll- can be given thereof, and esliecially as to her age, tonin order tZnage and equipment, and that it was always and is the
prove the con- practice of the said insurance company to make no indemnation of a surance' upon the b'dy .of a ship, her tackle,. apparel
vessel it is only
necessary
to

and furniture, beyond the reasonable value thereof acfo the representation and description given
thereof as to her age, tonnage and equipment,. which
ece.,
It is a useless rule and practice diminishes the risks of insurance in

produce the.!- cording
blt and

ecu-

• See anwe, v. 5. p. 10D.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

207

M,111" It. Co.
regard to losses contrived,' designed, effected -and conHoV.soN.
cealed by the insured when they are greatly over isu,
red; and that the said rule and practice was, at the
" td
time of making and concluding the contract aforesaid pran6e
res. the proat
,ceedimgin the declaration mentioned, well known to each •of
the said parties making the said contract ; and that to Iegth. The
stainduce them, the said defendanits, to sign, sealtand le)"tinsi-Ons
such prote of afres'ted
delier
insurance, thereby insu- ceedings are
policy
deliver the aforesaid

action
in anevidence
ring to the" value of eight thousand dollars upon.the not

body, tackle, apparel aind- other turniture of the bri- upon the poligantine Hope aforesaid, he the said plaintiff, 'in t ifeci- cy of insitan actio
ing the said policy on the 30th of September, in the
year 1M99, at the county aforesaid, stated and repre- upon g .. alued
poiyii ot
sented .that the said brigantine in the month of July, competnt for
in the year last mentioned, was a stout well built yes- the undewrisel of about 250 tons burder.;, in gc3d order, and well te' toge pafound in s-ils, rigging, &c. built in MVassichusetts, and thaL the rel
thinsured
Ssubjectvalue of
from six to seven years old, and requested an insudilfercnt
is
apparel
her
tackle,
rance upon the said brigantine,
at the sum' of 10.000 from that staand furniture, rating herdvalue
ted in tse poliso
dollars for the voyage in the declarationi mentioned at cy.
the commencement of the. risks to be insured. And
the plaintiff represented to the defendants on the sam,
30th day of September, in th year 1799, at the county aforesaid; that the said brigantihe, her tackle, apparel
and furniture, were of the value of 10,000 dollars, at
the time the risks of the voyage' to be insured' by the
contract aforesaid, would"commence; and the defendants aver, that in consequence of the said representation,
and placing full faith and credit therein, they were induced to sign, seal and deliver, anu did sign' seal and deliver the said policy of insurance oft the said 30th day of
September, in the year aforesaid, at the counitv aforesaid,
to the plaintiff, .thereby agieeing in the said policy to fix
the value of the said .rigantide,. her tackle and apparel
and other furniture, at the sum of 10,000' dollars, and
thereby insuring to the amount of 8,000 dollars for the
voyage aforesaid, upon the saidjbrigantine, her tackle,
apparel and furniture. And the said defendants further
aver, that the said brigantine Hope was riot, in the month
of July, in the year aforesaid, or at any time, a well
built vessel of the burden of about 250 tons, and was

208
MA'.1bT.

v.

Co.

H=DGSOXr

SUPREME COURT U. S,

not from six tosevenyears old in the said month of Inly, -in the ye r aforesaid, but was muqh older than from
six to seven years old i the said month of July, in
-the said year,,that is to say, more than eight .and a half
years 'old, and had been ill built'in the year 1790, in
the protince of Mlaine, in Massachusetts, and thereafter.Was raised, upon an'd rebuilt; "that the value of the
said brigant*ine, her tackle, apparel atd furniture,
was never at any time whatever equal to one half the
said sumof 8,00 dollars. And the defendants say
that the difference aforesaid betiveen- the -true built,
age, tonnage and value of the, said ship, and the aforesaid'represented built, age, tonnage and value thereof
was material in'regard .to ,the risks of the voyage in
the said policy of insurance mentioned, and this they
aie ready to verify; Yherefore they pray judgment, &c.
10th plea. And the said defeidants, by.their attorney
aforesaid, by leave of the court and of the statutes"in such
cases made and provided, for'further plea in this behalf
say, that the said plaintiff ought not to have or maintain
his action aforesaid against theiia, because they say that
the said policy of insurance was had and obtained of
them by means of thefraudof the sqid George P. Straas
in the declaration mentioned, with intent to deceive
and defraud the said- defenda'nts of a large sum of money th 'is to say, of the difference between the just
,and fair value of the said brigantine, her tackle, ap.
parel and furniture and The sum of 8,000 dollars in.
tended to be ipsured by the said policy, which differ-nce exceeded one half the sum last mentioned, that
is to say, exceeded 4,000 dollars, and this they are ready to verify;. wherefore they pray judgment, &c.
But the court below refused to permit the pleadings
to be so amended, in consequence of Which the cause
went to trial upon the thfee issues of'fact- which had
already been joined, viz.
1. That the defendants "have well and truly done

FEBRUARY, iso.0
and performed all things they by. the said
surance were bound to perfoim.",

209
policy of in- MAX.

I. Co.

v.

2. That the brigantine Hope "was not ,taken and 'Nt,,'"
seized by' certain British vessels and carried intoJamaica and there libelled, condemned and sold in man-,
ner and form- as in the declaration is set forth ;" and,
s. That the. brigantine Hope-was not, when she
galled from her.last port in the island of St. Domingo,
on tho voyage insured, a good, sound, staunch, seaworthy ship, able t6 .perfornq the voyage insured.
Upon the trial of these isshes the defendants offeried
evidence of the facts stated in. the ninth and tenth
pleais, 7 hich the court rejected As inapplicable to either
of theissues. To which refusal the defendants excepted.
The defendants also 6ffered in mitigation 6f damages,
evidenceto prove that the ves'sel, at the time she gailed
uppn. the voyage insured, wa nc worth one half the'
suminsured; and that -he high valuation in the. policy
was produced by an untrue and -unfair representation,
o4 the part of the insured, of,the age, tonnage and
built of the vessel, and that the misrepresentation in
those respects was material. to the contract of insurance, and thereu *on prayed the court to. instruct the
jury that if they. found the facts to lyeso, they oughtnot to take the valuation stated in the policy as thetrue value o- the .subject -intended to_be insured, but in
assessing the damages oT the plaintiff, they ought to
take-thejust value ctf the said brig, &c. at the commaencement of the risk insured, although all-the issues
df fact 'should be. found for-the plaintiff. . Which.inrstru'ction the court refused to give, having already in.
structed the jury, in case they shouald find the issues
for the plaintiff, to reserve, for the decision of the courti
the question as to the principle upon which the damna-.
ges should be estimated and assessed. To which xe;
fusal the defendants also excepted.
The plaintiff, for. the purpose of provig the libe,
VOf. V.

Dd

210
Va.

sUPREME. COURT U. S

IN.Co, and condemnation in the declaration mentioned, pro.

V.
HoDGoSO,.

duced and rpad to the jury, without objection at the
time on the partof the defendants, a copy of the whole
record and proceedings in the vice-admiralty court at
Jamaica, respecting which, the counsel for the parties
had entered into the following agreement, viz.

C
'

[he

defendants waive all exceptions to the authentication
of the record of 'the proceedings in admiralty concerning the coodemnation of the brig Hope, but save
every objection to the contents of the said record excepting the matter of authentication. The plaintiff
admits, as evidence, the affidavit of Gibson ; Fvans,?
After the.reading of which, the defenldants, in order
to prove that the vessel was not, at the time Pf ca.
ture in the due course of the'voyage insured, and the

condition she was then in, offered to reacd in evidence
io the-jury, from the said record of proceedings, a
copy of the deposition of William- Mutray, taken in
prepardtorio,to be used .in the said court qf vice-adiralty.
But the court instructed the jury that the said deposition of the said William Murray, so taken, is not
competent evidence in this cause to prove the said
facts. To which instruction the defendants excepted.
The plaintiff moved the court to direct the jury,
that if, from the evidence, they find all the issues of
fact for the plaintiff, then they should find their verdict in the following form,, viz. "WWe of ihe jury find
all the issues of fact joined in this cause for the plain.
tiff, and do assess his damages by reason of the breach
of coven"ant in the declaration mentioned,"-to the sum
The amount of damages so assessed to be
of -.
.nevertheless subject to the opinion of the court upon
the following point reserved, viz. if the value fixed in
the policy, set out in the declaration be not conclusive
upon the parties, and it be competent to t jury, under

any of the issues pf fact joined in this cause, to hear
evidence concerning, and to inquire into the real value
of the vesdel in th.e said policy mentioned, so as to re-

duce the agreed value mentioned in the spaid policy, and

FEBHRUARY, 1810.2

9.11

to"estimate the plaintiff's damages according to sfich M'i. Ix.ct.
V.
reduced value, as aqLU Ily proved, then, and not otherwise, wve assess the plaintiff's damages (in lieu of the HoDOsoN.
To which
sum above assessed) -to the sum of -;
direction the defendants objected, and prayed the court
if they gave the jui-r any instruction upon the subject, to direct them io find the smaller sum in damages,
if the court sh6uld be of opinion that it was competent for the jury to hear evidence oncerning the misto the age; biilt, and tonnage of the
representation :as
vessel
But the court refused to give' the instruction prayed
by the defendants, having before- retused to suffer .the
defendants to give evidence of misrepresentation by
the plaintiff in obtaining the pplicy, under either of
the issues of fact joined in this cause2 to vlich relusil
the defendants had taken a bill of exceptions. But the
plaintiff having consented to permit the defendants to
give evidence of the real value of the vessel, at the
time the risks insured commenctd, (saving the objec-.
lion to the competency of aiy parol evidence upon.any
,of the said issues of fact, canceining the real value of
the said subject insured,). the court directed the jury
-to find their verdict as prayed by the plaintiff.
To which rrfusal and instruction the defendants excepted.
The jury found a verdict in the form directed by.
the court, and filled the first blank with the sum of
11,452 dollars and 34 cents, and the other with the sum
of 6,4.1 dollars and 71 cents.
The court,'after consideration, Tendered judgment.
for the largest sum, being of opinion that the value
stated invatl policy was conclusive between -the parr
ties.

The'defetdats broughttheir wAit pf error

-

C. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error,
1. The court below ought to have permitted.the R4-.

212
MAR. IN.

V.

HoGSso.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

When a cause is sent back
from this court with a mandate ,that such further and
other proceedings be had in the said cause, as, according
to right and justice"and the laws of the United States,
and agreeably to the -judgment of the said supreme
court, ought to be had," it is open to all amendments as
if it were an original cause, and as if the former plea
had been adjudged bad by the court below in the first
instance.

Co. dition;A pleas to be filed.

Amendments are permitted, even after judgment
upon demurrer, according to the discretion of the
court. Abd this court will reverse the judgment of the
court below, if ithas not soundly exercised its discretion. 5 Term Rep. 112. Wiihis v. Despard. 7 Term
Rep. 703. The King v. The GrantfordCorporation. 1
'b!ranch, 117. Resler v. Shehee. 1 Wash. Downman v.
1 *Burr.3!.7. 322. 1 Wash. 313.
Downman.
Cranih, 433. Pollard v. Dwight.

4

The 9th plea was different from any before offered.
And it was not necessary that the plia of fraud should
have been more specific. 3 Wentw. 414. 3 Dal. 321.
Wischart v. Duchey. 1 Woodd. 207. 3 Co. 77. Perrer's
case.

The court ought to have received evidence of 'fraud
and misrepresentution upon the first issue, which was
inthe nature of a general issue. The plea might perhaps have'been adjudged bad upon demurrer; but it is

aided by the Joinder of issue upon it, and every thing
which'could show that the defendants were iot bound
by their covenant to do any thing, was admissible upon
this issue.
System of Pleading, 321.

s Com. Dig. tit. Pleader,

E. pl. 37. C.'5 .sp. Bep. 38.
-If the evidence was not directly admissible upon
either of the issues, it ought still to have beenreceived
in mitigation of damages. The contract of insurance'
is only a contract for indemnity; and if, upon a total
loss, the insured receive the full value 'of the subject

FEBRUARY, 1810.

213

insured, itis all that he can in equity and good faith Mk,,. Ir.Co.
v.
require. 4 Burr. L966. Da Costa v. Perth. Cowp.
HO .GSON.
583. Grant v. -arhinton.
In this very case this court has intimated an opinion
that the misrepresentation might be a subject of consideration in inquiring of damages.
Upon a total loss, the value stated in the policy is
only prima facie -evidence.. ffarshall, 10, 11. 199.
612. 701..
At . -554. Sadlers' Company v.'Babcock.
The court ought to have admitted the deposition of
Murray to be read frohi the record of the vice-admiralty. By the British treaty the whole proceedings are
made evidefnce;.
The court also erred in rendering judgment upon
the verdict for the larger sum. It was competent for
the jury to hear evidence of the real value of the vesseJ)
'and to assess damages accordingly.
Swann, contra.
The court below committed no error in rejecting the
9th and loth pleas. They were offered after the cause
nad. been-remanded from this court There will be no
end to delay, if the party be permitted to amend after
judgment against him .upon a writ of error.
As a matter of discretion also, the court did right
in rejecting the 9th plea. They ought not to have
indulged the defendants with filing a plea at that
late stage of ,the cause which tendered the same
issue which they had refused to join when tendered by the plaintiff in his replication to the 6th
plea. Besides, the." matter of the plea was covered
by the implied warranty of seaworthiness; for if th6
facts stated in the plea were at all material, they must
have been so only in regard to the ability of the vewsr,
to perform the'yoyage. The substance of this plea
was therefore included in the issue of seaworthiness.
The ad.mission or rejection of a plea after' an issue

214

SUMPRME COURT U. S.

is joined, is not an error -forwhich the judgment can
be reversed. "It is a mere matter of discretion; the
s.-party can have no legal ground, to insist upon it. 7
Term Rep. 703. The principle eiat this court wiP:
not reverse a judgment for a proceeding in tie cout
below which was within its discretidn, has been decidd
in regard to .th;,continuance of causes; bnd the grahting
new trials.

.!An, Ix. Co.

o

k-,,.

If it be a case in which a *rit of efror lies,still nd ehl'oi
was con mitted bythe cqurt in the exircise of its discrele.n
in iejecting the l0th plea. It.is not a direct allegation of
fraud, nor dges.it aver that.any d, 4inage was sustaihed
by th6 defendanis in tonsequence of thq fraud. ,The
plea id not sufficiently explicit in charging' the fraud;
it does not state in what, p'irticularsthe-raud consisted.
N either of the pieas co& d be considered as a fair plea
to the nTeits., They must have produtced demurers,
a d additional delay.
There was no erfor in rejecting' the "evi'dence of
he facts stated in the 9th and- 10th pleas, because there,as no'issue to 'wlftch those-.facts couldlappl.
"The pica that the defendants had performed all that
they were bound to performi must be considered 'as an
averment of' a matter 'f fact, not of a matter 'of law.
The 6nly act which the defetidanis were bound to perform was to pay the
hmo0ie,
if a.loss'happened., The
.plea therefore amounts 'to n averment that they had
paid the ,money.
There was no error in rejectifg'the copy of lVurravy's
deposition, for' it was not taken in the cause.. The
plaintiff had no opportunity to cross-,examie him. It
was entirely 'n ex parte pyoceeding.
There couldbe no error in'the direction given' by
the court to the juiy. to find their damages in the alternative, or conditi6nal mannger it is often done when a
question of law is to be saved. It is a kind of special
verdict. The error, if any, must have been in rendering the judghent for the largest sum.
4

FEBRUARY, 1810.

215

The correctness of this judgment depends upon the
question whethter it was competent for the jury, upon
either of the issues, to hear parol evidence of the value.

The policy wvas sealed, and subject to all the incidents.
of a sealed instrumerit at common law. The value
agreed upon by the parties, under seal, 'cannot be denied
by parol evidence. 4 Bac. i06 tSalk. 276; 2 Burr.
1171i Lewis v Rucker. 4 Burr. p2.28. La-ve v,
Peers;
But even if it were a policy' without, seal, the agreed
value in the policy would be conclusive., Payk, i0 .
:267'. 116ft

The agieed value is conclusive unless it appear, to
be a coverfor a wager. Au inqhiry of the actual valr e
is never made upon a4alued policy but with .a view to
ascertain ivhether-it le a wager policy. There-is not
an mttaiice in the English books of the agreed value
ever being reduced to a smaller sim. Upon a total-loss,
the, agreed value is to be recovered, or n6thing." Itthis
be not the case; and you. can go into the question of the
actual value, every policr is reduced to an open Dolicy.
Suppose a man should, make a bad bargain, and purchase-a vessel for 10,000 dollars, not worth 5,000. . He
insureS, and. it.is .agreed that the vessel shall be valued.
at 10,000 dollars.: A total loss happens-; hhll-he beobliged to receive only the value of the vssel to.be
ahcertained by-a jury?
This is like every other case of liquidated damages
"gs
itis conclitsive between the parties.
As. t 'plea of fraud, if .wds too vague. The pre'ceagainst them ; the vesdent cited from Wentworth issel ii that case was" stated to -have been fraudulehtly
consumed by fte. Tfie case from Dallas is not rele-,ant. The case of Pollard and Dwigft is agaiist
them. The court there refused to direct the' amendment to be made. The case from I Wash. 313. wvas
'ipon a. specialdemurrer, and it was most clear that the

It. Co.
HO.

MAR

/

216
MAR. 11q.Co
O.
HODGsON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

justice of the case required the amendment. It was a
case clearly within the equity of the statute of jeofails.
the case from 7 Term Rep. 703. the court did give
leave to amend under the statute of jeofails, brt it
was in the exercise of its discretion.

SIn

.E. '. Lee, in reply.
Amendments may be made at any time, even after
verdict, and for that purpose a new trial will be granted.
7 Term Rep. 132. Tmninson v. Blacksmith. Str. 1151.
1162. Comb. 4. 3 Call, 522. 'lude v. Syme. 2 Salk.
622.
If the facts in the 9th plea would have vacated a
policy not under seal, the court ought to have suffered
them to be pleaded to a'sealed instrument, especially after
the 6th plea (which had begn formerly .adjudged good
by the court below) had been rejected by this court.
By that rejection the defendants were entirely shut
out from the btnefit of these facts upon the trial.
The misrepresentation was material to the risks of
the voyage, and every such misrepresentation, 'vhether
fraudulently or innocently made, destroys the pblicy.
I1arshall, 335.
Fraud vitiates every contract, and may be examined
into by a court of law. It has been decided ,that
courts of 'equity have no.jurisdiction of insurance
cases. 3 Bio. ParL Cas. 525. De Ghetofv, The London'
Assurance Corn pany. The contract of insurance is
founded upon the principles of equity, and governed in
all its parts by plain justice and good faith. In a court of law a defendant may show that the
consideration of a bond is bad.

Collins v. Blantern,

2 Wi/s. 347. Guichard v. Roberts, 1 TflWBI 445. 4
Didl. 269. _.enk 254. p1 45. 1 Burr. 396. 1 Terra
Rep. 619. Winch v. Keely.
In covena'nt the plaintiff can recover only such damages as he has actually sustained, and the defendant may

FEBRUARY, -1810.

217

.give in evidence any thing which shows that no damage MAR-N. GO
has bven sustained by reason of the breach of any ,co- HoDsoV .
venant which the defendants were bound to perform.
Evidence of fraud and misrepresentation went to show0
that the defendants were not bound to perforr0 any of
fhe covenadits, and therefdre the plaintiff Niasnot entitled to damages. 2 Setwyn, 464.
,March17.
.IVINGS
follows:

No,

J. delivered the opinion of the court as

This is an* action of covenan' 'on a policy of insurance, "to'hich the defendants pleaded, 1. That they
had .performed all things which, by the policy., they
w.ere bound to perform; 2. That the vessel insu.
ved was not -captured and condemned -as in the declaL'
ration is mentioned; and, 3. That the vessel insured was not seaworthy : on which pleas is sues. -e
taken by the plaintiff.
There were, also, five special pleas, to which there.
were demurrers, all of which were'allowed by the circuit court, except the one to the sixth plea, which, on a
writ of error to this court; heretofbre brought, was alfowed here, and the cause then remanded to the-circuit
court, for further proceedings to be had therein. -On,
the return of the cause to the circuit court, thd dejend.
ants moved for leave to filetwo additional pleas; which'
motion was denied; and is now relied on as one of
the errors for which the present judgmen should be.
reversed.
This-court does not think that the, refusal of an inferior court to receive an additional plea, *r t6 amenud
oiie already filed, can evdr be assigned as error. This
depends so much-on the discretion of thie court below.
which must be- regulated more by he perticular circumstances of every case, than by any precise and
known rule of law, and of which the superior court
VoL VL

e

21.8

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Mba. 1-. Co. can never become fully possessed, that there would be
more danger of injury in revising matters of this kind,
V.
HoD6o..

than what might result naw aned then from an arbitrary

or improper exercise of this discretion. It may be
very hard not to grant a new trial, or not to continue a
cause, but in neithrr case can the party be relieved by a
writ of error: nor is the court apprized, that a reftisal
to amend or to add a plea was ever made the subject
of complaint in this way.
rhe court, therefore, does
not feel itself obliged to give any opinion on the coAduct of the interiorhcourt, in refusing to receive these
phas. At tle same time, it has no difficulty in saving
that, even in that stage of the proceedings, the circuit
court might, if it had thodght pioper, have received
these additional pleas, or admitted of any amendment
in those already filed.
The court below having refused to receive these
pleas, the trial proceeded on the three on which issues
were joined; and the defendants offered, under them,
or some of them, to prove that it was.one of the rules
of their office, that every order for insurance shall contain as full a description as can 'be given of the age,
tonnage, and equipment of the vessel ; and that it was
always their practice to make no insurance on a vessel
beyond her reasonfble value, according to the representation given of her age, tonnage, and ecluipment; and
that such rule was known to the plaintiff; and that, to
induce them to. insure -eight thousand dollars op the
brig Hope, the plaintiff represented her as a stout, well
built vessel of about 250 tons burden, and from six to
seven years old, afd that she was worth ten thousand
dollars; in consequence of which, they insured her for
eight thousand dollars; that, on the contrary, she was
not a well built' ves'sel of 2.50 tons burden, and was not
from six to sevenyears old, but was more-than eight
and a half years old, and had been ill built; and that this
difference between her true and her represented built,
age, and tonnage, was material to the risks of the v.oyage.
insured This evidence, being objected to, was deemed
inaarnissible.; and this court is now called on-to say
whether, in this opinion, there was any error.

FEBRU'ARY; 181o.

2.19

l6Wever desirable it may Be tw admit -indvidence, MtAI. IN. Co,.
V.
on the general issue in an-action of cqvenant oh a policy
of itisurante, every thing which may avoid thecontract,
s
or lesseti the damages, as is done in actions on the case,'
this court does'not know that it possesses ihe power of
changing the law of pleading, or to admit of ev'idence
inconsistent ivith the f6rms which it has prescribed;
No rule on this subject is more, inflexible than that, in
actions on deeds, all special matter Of.defehce'must be
pleaded, - Of this rule it is very certain, from a.mere
inspection of ihe -recor, thar the defendants cannot allege ignbrancd. 'If e,.iy thifig, then,..which is relied
-0rt
to avoid a, ontract ,.-ind' sealzmust'be:pleaded, it.
-.wilh, at once, be -conceded, thatdnne of the: matter or'
fered'in evidence.applied to either of the.-plea.. The
defendants" could not, thus slet up an excuse. for-nJot
Aoing~thai which, by one of the pleas, they profissed
'tohave done ; ancr,_vs 'to the other plea., which-ddaibd
the capture and-seaworthiness of..the vessel, it wijl
,not be pietended 'that any of this 'matter, supported
either of them. , The, same remarks- apply -tor the se,
cond and third bills of exception. Neither fraud nor
misrepresentation, as to the value of the vessel, or h~r
age, or tonnage, could b' received in evidencei,.'ihder
.either of these iss'ues, no more than infancy or coverture, on a plea of non estfactum; for, most ce'tainy,
none of the matters here-offered by the defendajts, the
rejection of which occasioned these exceptions,.went,
ip any, degree, to -piove ither'of the pleas on which 4,i,
sue; had be6n joined..
The fourth exception is to the - refusai of-the court
to idniit thie deposition'of William Murray, which appeared among 'the admirity proceedings, ( and-which
was offered by the defendants to prove that the vessel
was n6t in the due course of her voyage x-hen she was
captured, and the condition she was in, av the time of
capture. As the defendants have not, iti
either of their
-pleas, relied on a deviation, itmay he doutted whether
any evidence of that fict we re admissible* but, if !$

were proper, for the pairpnse of ditcrediting any testimony which had been offered-by the V idnfiff, to show
where the Hope had been taken, it is not thought .that

220
!aAn.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

IN. Co. the circuit court erred in instructing the jury that the
V.
deposition of Murray was not competent evidence to
prove that fact. If all the proceedings in the admiralty had been read by the plaintiff without any previous agreement, on the part of the defendants, to save
every objzctioi to their contents, excepting the matter
of authentication, the court will not say that the defendants might not have insisted on using any deposition,
among the papers, which made in their favour: but, as
the plaintiff could have read them for-no other purpose
than to prove the libel and condemnation, and must
have attempted to prove no other fact by them, for which
purpose it is expressly stated that they were offered,
and.as the defendants had, b their agreement, explicitly reserved to themselves every objection to their
contents, it does not appear reasonable to permit them
to select a deposition, as evidence f- them, while the
plaintiff could not have made u.., of that, or any other,
if ever so favourable to himself. The circuit court,
therefore, did not err in the instruction which it gave
to the jury on this subject.o This court cannot forbear
remarking here, that it can never be necessary, ifi order
to prove a condemnation, to produce any thing more
than the libel and sentence; although it is 4 frequent
but useless practice to'read the proceedings at length.
The fifth exception is taken to a refusal of the circuit
Court to direct the jury to find-damages for the value of
the vessel, as agreed in the policy, and, conditionally, for
her actual value, if, in the opinion of the court, it was
competent for the jury, ubder any of the issues joined,
to inquire into the real value of the vessel. As it had
already been decided, and, as this court thinks, correctly,-tq receive no evidence of the real value of the
vessel, there was no error in refusing to. give this direc.
tion: and, although the plaintiff, at length, consented to
permit the defendants to give evidence of the real
value of the- vessel, saving objections to the competency of such evidence, upon any of the issues of
fact, and the jury, thereupon, found cbnditional
damages, this court is of opinion that, as evidence of
the -real value of the vessel, under any of these issues,
was incompetent, and as objections to its competency

FEBRUARY, 1810.

221

were saved to the plaintiff, the circuit court did right MA-t. IN. Co
V.

in giving judgment for the damages found by the jury,
according to the value, of the vessel, fixed in the policy;
which judgment this court affirms with costs.

SLACUM-p. POMERY.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co- In an"action
lumbia, sitting in Alexandria, in an action of debt, by the endora
(under the law of Viginia,) brought by Pomtry against ' dorsof
Slacum, as endorsor of a bill of exchange, dated the foreign bill of
lia,
delelnuaotis
",
.
exchange, the
of Barba.
the island
6th of August, 1807, drawn in
does, by Charles Cadogan, a merchant residing there, biefordanagesa
to
at 60 days' sight, upon Barton, Irlam & Higginson, at aecording
the law of the
Liverpool, in England, for 138!. 17s. 9d sterling, pay- place where
able to Slacum or order, who endorsed it,vt Alexandria, the bill was enhe endorsein the district of Columbia, to the plaintiff.
ment is a new

The declaration was "1of a plea that he render unto and substactive
him one hundred and thirty-eight pounds, seventeen In an action
against
shillings and nine pence sterling money of Great Bri- of debr of
cxper a iitl
tain, with interest at the rate of five per centiun

annum, from the 23d day of December, eighteeh -hun- change, under
the statute of
dred and seven, until paid, -together With fifteen per Virginia, it is

that
cent. damages on the said one h4ndred and thirty-eight necessary
the declaration

pounds, seventeen shillings and nine pence, and ten should aver noshillings, and six pence sterling, of the value of two tice of the pro.
dollars and thirty-three cents, current money of the test fur nonit is not too
'United States, costs of protest) which 't- him le owes,'
&c.

late to allege,
s CrorI,

in the

appellatecourt,
a fault in the

It then stated the making and endorsing of the bill,
" I declar-ation

the non-acceptance and non-pa3 ment, and the protest for whicl ought to
aieprevented
and
of which premises,
non-paynient, r-" by-reason
rendition of
• by hthe
t
. .
•
io
made and -provie,,.tiljudgitint
force of the statute in that case
jd.court beplainiff to demand
action hath accrued to -the

have of the defendant jhe said sum of 1381. 17s. 9d. lo,.

sterling, and iiitreSt at the rate ot five per cent. per
annum, from. the 23d of December, 18u7, until paid,

