SUi1'ME tOURT If S.
T4hL3 U S

"
.

oof Porto Ricolisstr.
The 'e- estates that theg&Ve~
ed,am-order that the: eargo shotld be landed and sold,
,*ithwhich order the captain wa-'bfigdto coniply."

As thii case ii stated, the Mary was- driven into
Porto Rico, afid the sale'of her'cargo, while there,was.
inevitable, The. dangers of the sea placed her ,in a
situai" which. put.it -odit of. he power Qf the.owners to
reland her c rgo within the United 'States. The 6bligor-,. then; wera prevented~tby the.d-4ngers of the seas,.
from complying with the cofidition of the. bona ; for ai
effect,, which -proceeds inevitably,'and of absblute necessity fom a specified" cause, ,must be ,ascribed to that
cause.
-"Ii it. the unanimous opinion of this cqurt that there
is'do.'errbi in the prodeedings of !he circuit courtandOthat thejudgment be tiffirmedu

.CAMPBELL v. GORDON AND. WIFE,

THIS was an. apeal from a- decree of- the ciretit"
A ce'tificate
by a tompe- court for Aie district of Virginia, dismissing the bill of
lainanto
tent courtthat
an alien hasta- the coni
-

ken the

oath
y

'The case was stated by WASHINGTox, Jg in deliver.
iug
the opinion of tlhis court, as. follows:.
ing naturaliza',
prescribed
thc actrespet.tion,

raises a

thecourt
was the
satisfied
as
.moral
to

The. pbject of the kll was to rescind a contract

made between the appellant and Robert Gordon, tfie

of a tract of land by the latter to
ground of .a defect of title. T'e
to the Rcts ku thecast, which are not disputed, appear to be
ment
principles
of- as follows.
The land which forms-the.. ubject of dis. "
-the constitu..
to James Currie, a cittien of Virginia,
pute.
belonged
""oftheUni
died eised thaireof in fee, on the 1,3)& of April,
ted'States, &-c. %who
Trheoathwhen IO I, intestate,'and without- issue. Jimue; Currie had
,le rinfets one broiher of thewhole blood, nfamed William, who,
, of appellee, for the sale
the alien, and t4e former,'ttpor-thp
of his attach- f

character

4..itn~

-

iaot "he there
itlat

'is
s

rior to the 14th day. of October, in the year t795, was
uib
iyt of Great Britain, but who emiof th'e-Ktig
a subject

FEBRUARY, 1810.17
grated to the United. States, and on the day last mentioned, at a district court held at Suffolk, in Virginia,
took the oath prescribed by the act of congress, for en.

CA--LPuEL1
GoRDON."

titling himself to the rights and.privileges'of a-citizen. should be an
of cbnrt
At.the time. when this oath ias taken; Williai Currie order
admitting him'
had.one daughter, 7anetta, the wife of the appellee, to become a
The children
who was born in Scotland. She came to the United- citizen.
States in October; 1797, whilst an. infant, during the ofpe hilduly
life of her father, and bath ever since'continued to re-' naturalized be14thoforeith8t8.02,
heside in the state'f Virginia. William Currie died prior SApril,
age
under
ing
1807."
Apri,
to the 23d'of.
at
time of
naturaliza.
thethe

C. Lee and F. V. Ky, for the appellant, contended,

tionoftheirpa-

1. Tliat William Currie was not duly naturalized.-

dwelling in the
United States,

rent, were, if
on the 14th ot

Ai 1802dA6
2. That if he was, yet his daughter Janetta, being
as citizens of
naturalization,
father's
in Scotland at the time of' her
te
United
was not thereby naturalized.

1. WilliamCurrie was not duly, naturalized.
The certificate of his naturalization was as follows,
.VIZ.

"At a district couit held at Suffolk, October the
14th, 1795, William Currie, late -of"Scotland,- merchant, who bath migrated into, this commonwealth,
this day in open court, in order to entitle himself to the
rights and privileges of a citizen, made oath that for
two years last past he bath resided in and under the ju-

risdictiou of the United States, and for one year
within'this commonwealth, and Aso that he will support the constitution of the United States,--and abso.
lutely and entirely renounce and abjure all- allegiance
and fidelity to any foreign prince, or other state -whatsoever, particularly to the King of Great Britain.

"A Copy,
"Teste,

,'ohn C. Littlepage.".
Vold VI.

Z

CAMPBEL

Gonno:

M
SUPREME COURT U. S.
The original memorandum made upon the minutes
of the court, was as follows
"At a district court held at Suffolk, October the
14th, 1795, William Currie, native of Scotland, migrated into the commonwealth- took"the oath," &c.
There was also a deposition of a deputy clerk, who
states that he acted as deputy to Mr. Litlepage, at,
before, and after the date of the entry respecting Mr.
Currie's naturalization.
That upon examining the
or'der-books of the said court, he finds the entries made
in all cases where persons were admitted to laecome
citiiens under the act of congress, at and prior to
October lerm, 1795, to be agreeably to the form used
in the case of Mr. Currie. That however informal these
entries may have been in not stating that it appeared to
the court that the persons who took the oaths were
of good moral character, and were admitted citizens;
he is sensible every requisite of the law in this, as
well as in. all" other similar instances, was complied
with- to the satisfaction of the court, and that the omission has been a clerical one.
He also finds, from the order-book, that at May
term, 1796, the form of the entry was altered so as to
express the applicant to be of good moral character,
&c.
The application was made under the 2d section of the
act of January 29,1795, (Vol.o 3. p. 163.) which provides
that any alien then residing within the limiis, and under
the jurisdiction of the United States, may be admitted
to become a citizen, on his declaring, on oath or affirmation, "that he has resided two years at least within
and under the juriSdiction of the same, and one year
at least within the state or territory 'vere such court
is at the time held; that he will. upport the constitution of the United States, and that he doth
absolutely and entirely renounce ind abjure all
allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty whatever, and particularly by
name, the -prince, potentate, state or sovereignty,

FEBRUARY,:%f810.

179

whereof he wag before'a citizen orsubject; aid more- cQ PELL
V.
over, on its appearing to the *satisfaction of the court,
GoioN.
behaved
has
he
years
two
of
term
said
the
during
-that
as a man of good moral iharacter, attached to the constitution of the United States, and well disposed -to the
good order and happiness of the same."
"All of which proceedings, required in thi's proviso to be performed, in the court, shall, be recorded,
by the clerk thereof."
The first section of the act r~quires only the oath
of the party himself to be recorded; but the 2d section requires all the pro&eedings to be recorded.
'When a matter is directed by act of tiarliament to
be recorded, it cannot be proved otherwise than by
record. -Peahe's N. P. Cas. p- 132. . The deposition
of the. deputy cldrk ir"
nbt competent evidence to prove
what ought to have appeared upon the record.
It does not appear upon the record that the court
was satisfied as to the moral character of Mr. Currie,
or his attachment to the constitution of the United
States, or that the court admitted him to become 2iciti-'
zen. 'They must either show an order of the court
for h's admission, or they must show that every thing
has been done to entitle him to become a citizen.
No decision goes farther than that the declaration of
a competent court that every thing has been -done according to law, is sufficient, and dispenses -withshowing
how it was done. - But the court hat not said so, nor
does the record show it. Proof of good character,
&c. is not a-prerequisite to permission to take the oath;
if it was, the admission to take'the oath, might be considered as evidence that the court was satisfied as to the
meoral character, &c. His application to the court was
not to take the oath, but to be admitted a citizen.
The "&c .' in' the minutes, might have been ex.
tended by the clerk, according' to his usual custom.;
but this court cannot undertake to extend it, or to - sa,

180
CArn'SELL

Gv.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

what it means.. Certainly not without direct and po.
sitive proof of its meaning.
2. But if William Currie was duly admitted a citizen, yet his daughter Janetta, being then in Scotland,
was not thereby naturalized.
The words of the 3d section of the act of f795 are,
that the children of persons duly naturalized, dwelling
within the United States, and being under the age of
21 years, at the time of such naturlization,2 shaU
be- considered as citizens of the United States."
L9

Janetta, the daughter of William Currie, was not
dwelling within the United States, at the time of his
naturalizatidn.
The words,- at the time of such naturalization,"
apply as well to the residence of the child as to her
age.
If the child be naturalized by the kiaturalizationtb.- ,
the father, she must be naturalized eo instanti. It cannot be a naturalization, or not, according to a future
event.

The case would rarely happen of a parent cormlnu
to this country, residing two years, becoming a citizen,
and leaving his children in a foreign country. Congress
meant to proiride for the more common case of a man
coming with his children. They intended that all that
were with him, under age at the time of his naturalization should partake of the benefit of his act. But
they could not mean that the naturalization of a father should naturalize all his progeny under age,
wherever they resided. Reasons of policy would forbid it. Their education, manners, habits, prejudices,
and prepossessions would all be foreign, and uncongenial with our manners,. principles, and systems of government. A child might in this manner become a
citizen without renouncing his title of niobility.
I The act of 1795 is to have the same construction

FEBRUARY, 1310;

181

as th act of 1802, vo1. 6. p. V9. § 4. 2 Tuck. BR,249.
1 Tuck. BI. part 2. Apndix, i1.
Swtnn, contra.
The ,1 &c." in the clerk's minutes, means every thing
that was nicessary t6 be done to entitle Mr. Currie tobecome a' citizen.: If the requisites of the statute
Swere complied .with, it required the ordr of the court'
-to admit him to become a citizen. He became such
by virtue -of the' act of congress. The testimony as
tomoral chafacter, and attachment-to the constitution
of the United States, .may be" taken out of court, or
the court may be satisfied of their 6wn knowledge.
He 'as naturali.ed de facto when he complied with
the requisites of the, act, and the: neglect or error of
the cle.rk cannot deprive' him of- the privileges 'of a'
citizen.
-

It was ifin'aterial where'the child wa.s, if she was
-r age at the time of 'her father's naturalization.
.February,20.
WA-SHINGTON,
.- after stating the case as before
,entioned, 'delivered" the '"opinion of the couit as
.61lows:
-

-

The title of -the appellees t6 the land ini question
beirg' disputed only upon the- ground -of'the alienage
of. th& female appellee, the 'court take 'it for granted
that there is no other objection "'to 'its validity. It is
conttnded, by'.the counsei'for. the appellant, that la-, netta,,wh6 claims as heir to' James Currie, is an alien,
inasmuch, as she has, by 'no act-of her, on, n entitled.
herself to the rights :and privileges "of a citizen, and
cannot claim those rights in virtue of her migration" to
the United States, and of any 'acts performed by her
father. First, becauie her father was not duly naltralized; and, %econdly, because, if' he were, zhe wad'not,
at the time of her father's naturalization,- dwelling
within the United States.
'

CAMPBELL

V.

GoxooN

182
CaxPSSLL
GO X

SUPRIEME COURT U. S.

In suppdcrt of the first objection it is contended that,
although the oath prescribed by the second section of
the act of congress entitled "An act to establish a
uniform rule of naturalization, and to repeal the act
heretofore passed on that subject," passed the 29th of
January, 1795, was administered to the said William
Currie, by a court of competent jurisdiction, still it.
does not appear, by the ceitificate granted to him by
the court, and appearing in the recor4, that he was, by
the judgment of the court, adiqitteda citizen or that
the court was satisfied that, during the term of two
tears, mentioned in the same section, he had behaved
as a man of good moral character, attached to. the
constitution of t4e United States, and Well disposed th
the good order and happiness of the same.
It is true, that this requisite to his admission is not
stated in'.the certificate ; but it is the opinion of this
court, that the court of Suffolk must have been satisfied as to the character of the applicant, .or otherwise
a certificate, that the oath prescribed by law had been
taken, would not have been. granted.
It is unnecessary to decide whether, in the order of
time, this 4atisfaction, as to the character of the applicant, must be first given, or whether it may not be required after the oath is administered, and, if not then
given, whether a certificate of naturalizationr may not
be withheld. But if the oath be administered, and
nothfing appears to the contrary, it must be presumed
that the court, before whom the oath was taken, was
satisfied as to the character of the applicant. The oath,
when taken, confers upon him the rights of a- citizen,
and amounts to a judgment of the court for his admission to those rights. It is, therefore, the unanimous
6pinion of the court, that William Currie wap duly
naturalized.
The next qution to be decided is, whether the naturalization of William Currie conferred upon his
daughter the rights of a citizen, after her coming to,
and residing within, the. United States, she having been

FEBRUARY, 1i810.

183

a resident in a foreign country at the time when her

CAXPSE16L

father was naturalizes.

.

Whatever difficulty might exist as to the construction of the third section of the act of the 29th of Janu.;
ary, 1795; in relation to this point, it is conceived that
the rights of citizenship were clearly confer:red upon
the female appellee by the lourth section of
the act of
the 14th of April,. 180-.
This act declares that the children of persons duly
naturalized under any of the laws of the United States,
beirg under the age of 21 years at the time of their
parent's being so naturalized, shall, if dwelling in
the United States, be considered as citizens (d. the
United States. This is precisely the. case of Mrs.
Gordon. Her father was duly naturalized, at which
time she was an infant; but she came to the United
States before the year 1802, and was at the time when
this law pasped. dwelling within the United States..
It is, therefore, the unanimous opinion of'the court
that, at the time of the death of James Currie, Mrs.
Gotdon was entitled to all the right and privilege of a
citizen; and therefore that there is no error in the detree of the circuit 'court for the district of Virginia,
which is to be afirmed with costs#

M'1KNIGHT IV. CRAIG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co- In Virina.,
lumbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of debt ant dieftr
upon ajudgment and 4evast=it,brought by M'Kaighlt interlocutory
and
judgment
against Craig, as executor
"cc •" of Mitchell.
a writ Of inquiry twat-led,

• • judgment
After an office
"
by default
against Craig,
.
"
" his
tor,admini:traapon scir

and a writ of inquiry awarded in November 18OT, faei_,earonly
at the rules, Craig
At
July
1808. his plead whateomd
his
• " 'died.
•. "
.. the
•
:. term,• "intestate
death was suggested, and a scirefaciasawarded against ha,, pleaded.

I. G. Ladd, his administrator.

At the July term,

-

