SUPREME COURT U. S.

252
ViNLaY
V. 1.r
Lvai.

The residue of the condition does not affect the
er
ctd
iqaestion, and need notrbC recited0
it is, then, the opinion of a majority of the court
that, if there was really a debt due from the jewelry
store to the haidware store, Finley is entitled to that
debt.
This is a prope" subject. for an account.
The plaintiff has probably not applied fdr this account in the court below, and it does not appeao to be
a princioal object of his bill. This court, thLrefore,
doubited whether it would be most proper to affirm the
-decree dismissing the bill with the addition that it should
be without prejudice to any future claim for profits,
and for the debt due from one store to the other, or to
9pen the decree and direct the account. The latter
was deemed the more equitable course. The decree,
tbtrefore, is-to be reversed, and the cause repand
ed, with directions to take an account -between the
two,stores, and an account -of the profits of the jewelry
store, if the sam shall be required by the plaintiff.
TODD, J. concurred in the opinion of the court that
the debt of Wells ES Co. was a debt to be paid by
Finley, but he differed upon the other part of the case,
being of opinion, that the complainant was 'not entitled.
to a relief which by his bill'he had made a merit of
wvaiving..

Decree reversed, and thecause remanded, witb directions-to reinstate the injundtion, and take an account, &c.

DE BUTTS v. BACON AND OTHERS,

if

agenf,

ERROR to the circuit court for thq district of Co.
ina suit in chancery, brought by Samuel De

lumbia
has. ,yf
pe.,
permission of

FEBRUARY, 18l.5

253

Butts against James Bacon and others,'the object of' Dzu -7:
which was to foreclose a mortgage made by Bacen to BACON.
De Butts. The condition of ihe.mortgage was, that if
the defendant, Bacon, should pay to the complainant his pricipal,;
the interest of eight per cent. upon one thousand dol- sold
stock,8Per
cert.
applies
lars of eightper cent. stock ofihe Urn7,d States, loaned She money to
by the complainant to the defendant, and should-further hs bwn- use,
pay to the complainant "the said sum of one thousand--cd befo presay.
dollars," &c. the deed should be void.

ment
sives to
a
mortgage

The defendant, Bacon, pleaded the statute of usury,
alleging that it was a-loan of money and not of stock.

payment ofthe
amount of the
stock ,vth 8
Pei' cent': ilite-

secure the re-

o

-

The facts of the -case appeared to• be, that the ..com. itus
ret iisu
the'on,
"
plainant, Samuel De'Butts, intending-to-speculate 'in a
voyage with Captain Elias De Butts, authorized the latter to sell one thousand. dollars of eightper cent. stodk
6f the United-States, which he did through the agency
of the defendant, Bacon, who received the money. The
plan- of the voyage not having been prosecuted, the
complainant wished to get his stock back again, but
could.not get either the stock -orthe money from Ba.
con. It was however finally agreed, that Bacon should
be considered as answerable. for the stock, and should
give a mortgage to secure the repayment of thd stock,
and-eight per cent. interest.
The court below decided the contract to be usurious,
and decreed the mortgage to be void.

Which -decree,

this court, after argument, by Swann, for the-appellant,

and roungs, for the appellees,

Affirmed.

SHEEHY v. MANDEVILLE AND JAMESSON.

ERROR to the circuit court for the d;strict of Co- A promissory

lumbia, sitting at, Alexandria, in an action.of assu

r

vef

