.. EBRUARY, 1810,

51

"tlico, and,, as Curraqoa was very little out of the MARI. Co.
v.
the blockde still conti- Woobs.
•,
course, to ascertain whether
nted."
This evidence might be disbelieved by the jury,
but the defendants were certainly entitled to the opinion of the court declaring*its legal operation if believed.
It is the opinion of the court, that, in refusing-tQ
give the opinion prayed in the seventh exception,
the circuit court .erred, for which their judgment
h reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial.

YOUNG v. GRUNDY,

THIS was an appeal from an interlocutory decree No writ ofer.
of tle circuit court of the district of Columbia, div- le torappeal
locutorydecree
solving an injunction.
E. Y. Lee, for the appellant.

dissolving an
injunetion.
If the unswet,
• nor denies the

tf
The. decree dissolves the injunction Withcostsi dlegatios
the bilu,
which is a final -decree as to the costs. 2 Wash. 200. -must
prbe they
ved on the inal
Davenort v. Zifason.
hearing;

but

The material facts of the bill are not denied nor f distion
admitted by the answer ; they are, therefore, to be ofan injuuotioa
to be
the
.
takenareto.
taken as true. The court below must, therefore,
be.
have proceeded on the- ground that the' original Uue.
equity between the maker and payee of the note did
affect the endorsee.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. If the.answer neither adhits
nor denies-the allegations of the bill, they mus.t be
proved upon the final hearing. Upon a question of
dissolution of an injunction they are to be taken to
be true.

But the court has no doubt upon the question.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

WuLsoIi,
EX

PAIVTZ.

No appeal or writ of error-will lie to an niiterlo-

cutory decree dissolving an injunction.

Writ of error dismissed with costs.

W4LSON, EX PARTE.

WILSON petitioned the court for a writ of habeas corpus, and a certzorar2 to bring up the record
dum does no, of a civil cause in which judgment' had been renup dered against him, upon which a ca. sa. had issued,
lie person
to bringcona
fined ,s the- by which be was taken and was now in confinement
prison bounds within the prisons bounds upon.a prison-bounds bond.
upon a ca. sa His petition stated that the marshal had demanded
issued i a civil
of the creditor the daily -allowance for the prisoner
suit.
agreeably to the act of congress, concerning insolvent debtors within the distrrct of Columbia, (Laws
U S. vol. 6. p. 301. § 15.), ghic1 the creditor had
refused to pay, in consequence of which the marshal
had no longer any authority to detain him.
Therit of

habeas
corpus
ad aidjicen

The act.of congress provides that the circuit court
of the district of Columbia shall, by a general order,
fix the daily allowance-for the support of prisoners
in execution for debt in, civil suits) and that ."no
person, taken in execution for debt or damages in
a civil suit, shall be detained in prison therefor unless
the creditor, his agent -or attorney, shall, after demand thereof by the marshal, pay, or give such security as he Ihay require, to pay, such daily aflowance, and the, prison flees.
The marshal refused to discharge the p etitioner,
and his counsel, B. f Lee, now moved for a habeas
corpus.

""

MARSHALL, Ch. J, after consultation with the
other judges, stated that the court was not satisfied

