SUPREME COURT U. S.

226
V.

VASSE v. SMITH.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co.

infuey isa

bar to a" anlumbia.
tlen
by an
owner aginst

hiasiiperergho
The declaration had two counts; first a special count,
for brusch Of
iorUetins, charging the defrndant Smith, who watv supercargo,
but not to an with breach of orders; second, trover.
ation of trer for the
fney

sennc

Still,The firs count stated that Vase, the plaiutiff, was
may be owner and l.asessed of 70 barrels of flour, and, at the
ni en- instance an request of the defendant, put it on board
i

n-a

schooner at Alexandria to be shipped to Norfolk,

ver, upo,, the under the care, management and direction of the deiesofnotguil- feqdant, to be by hith sold for and on account of the
to

ow plaintiff, at Noffolk, for cash, or on a credit at 60 days,

the nature of in good drafts on Alexandna, and negotiable in the
theact
wch bank of Alexandria.
That the defendant was retain-

ed and employed by the plaintiff for the purpose of
selling the flour as aforesaid, for which. service the
liable in trover, plaintiff was to pay him a reasonable compensation.
aithough the That the defendant received the flour-at Alexandria,
Ioals
wpt de;vered
to him ppt it on board the schooner, and sailed, with the flour
under' a on- under his care and direction, to Norfolk, " yet the
trat, and &lthey defendant, not regarding the duty of his taid employthough
were not act- meat, so badly,. carelessly, negligently, and 'improvibe a eonver-

infis
3%1,nfant

gA billo.,,
use- dently behaved umself in said service and employofex- m',nt and took such little carerofthe said flourby him so
,

1

oht received as aforesaid, that he did not tell the same, or
evidence wnS any part thereof, at Norfolk, for cash, or on a credit of
€&red ofuponU
the 60 days for drafts on Alexandria, negotiable in the
facts
fhic
tie bank of Alexandria, but the said defendant, on the con.
of the trary theredf, by and through his own neglect and deoourt
wafault, and through his wrongful conduct, carelessness
vpyed
and improvidence, suffered the same, and every part
cptonS

of. the said 70 barrels of flour, in his possession as
aforesaid, to be embezzled, or otherwise to be wholly
lost, wpoted, and destroyed."

FEBRUARt 1810.

- 97

The second count was a common count in trover for
*the flour.
The defendant, besides the plea of not guilty, -plead.
ed infancy to both-conts,; to Which last plka the plaintiX demurred generally.
The court below rendered judgment for the defend.
ant:upon the d~emurrer to the plea of infancy to the fir t
count; and for the plaintif upon the demurrer, to that
plea to the second coant,. Upon the trial, in tWe court
below, of the issue of not guilty, to the couit .for tro*
ver, three bills of exception wvere taken by the plaintiff.
The first bill of exceptions stated, that the defendant
evidence to prove that the -flour was consigned.
and delivered to the defendant by the plaintiff udder
the following letter of instructions.

-offered

', Mr. Samuel Smitl--Sir- I have shipped od boar4
the schooner Sisters, Captain -, bound to Norfolk,
70 barrels of superfine flour, marked A. V. to you consigned. As soon as you arrive there I will be obliged
*to you to dispose of it as soon as you can to the best advantage for cash, or credit at 60 days in a good draft on
this place, negotiable af the bank of Alexandria. I
should prefer the first, if not miith difference; however, do for the best of my interest.

(Signed)

"Aab., Vasse."

Ani that the defendant received the flour in consequence of that letter of instructions, and upon the
terms therein mentioned. That the flour . ivas not
sold by the defendant at Norfolk, but was shipped
from thence by.him, without other authority than the
said letter of instructions, to the West Indies, for and
on account of one Joseph Smith. as stated in the bill
of lading, which was for 398 barrels, 70 of wvhich were
stated in the margin to be marked A. V.," 108 I. .lo D. I. S.,.and sa P. T.

- Vhssz
v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

228
VAssE.

v.

That the defendant when he received the flour, and
long after he shipped it, was an infant under the age of
twenty-one years. Whereupon the court, at the prayer
of the defendant, instructed the jury that if.they found
the facts as stated, the defendant was not liable tipon
the count for trover.
The second exception was the admission of evidence
of the defendant's infancy.
The third exception stated that, " uppn the facti
aforesaid,(the facts in the first bill of exceptions mentioned,) the plantiff prayed the cobrt to instruct the
jury that kf the) shall be of opinion that the defendant
was under the age of twenty-one years, and between the
age of nineteen and twenty years, and-that the defendant
.fliis own head shipped the flour to the West Indies,
in a vessel which has been lost by the perils of the sea,
and that the said shipment was made with other flour,
on account of his father Joseph Smith, in such case the
defendant has thereby committed a tort in regard to
the plaintiff, for wvhich he is liable in this action, notwithstanding his infancy aforesaid, which instruction
the court refused to giive.
The verdict and judgment being against the plaintiff,
he brought his writ of error.
E.

Y.

Lee and C. Lee, for the plaintiff in error.

1. The infancy of the defendant was no bar to the
first count, because it -was a count in tort, and not
upon contract, and infants are liable for torts and in.
juries of a private nature. 3 Ea't, 62- Goett v. Radnidge. and thers. 3 Bac. Abr. 132. N y, 129. Roll.
Abr. 530. Fearnes v. Smith. 3 Bac. Abr. 126.
2. The shipping of the flour uith6ut authority was
a conversion. Peake's Ni. Pi. Cases, 49. roul v. Harbttle. 4 T. R. -60. S&,,ds. v. Flay. 1 Wils. 328.
A 35. 6 Mod. 212. 6Y.' NP.
Perkins v. Smith.
East, 539. Z'Gombie v. Duvzs.

FEBRUARY 18.o.

229

3. Infancy cannot be given in evidence upon the
issue of not guilty.
It is admitted that if the possessionhad been obtained by a tort, the infant would be liable; but ,it is contended that the possession having been rightfully ob.
tained, a subsequent misapplication of the property
by ai infant cannot be a conversion unless it be ac
tually a conversion to his own use.
But there are no cases to justify such a doctrine,
and it is contrary to the principies of analogous cases.
In an action of trespass for inesne profits infancy is no
bar, although he becomes -a trespasser by implication of
law. Latch. 21. 1 Bac. Abr. 132. 1 Esp. Rep. it%2
So afeme covert is liable in an action of trover, because
the conversion is a tort. Tela. 166.
Although infancy may be given in evidence upon
non assumpsit, yet it cannot upon any. other general
issue. Gilb. L. E. 164. 216. 217. 2 Term R~ep. i66.
Upon not guilty, ihe defendant cannot give in evidence
a license, nor a right to away, nor any other matter
ofjustification. Str, 1200. 1 Tidd, 591. 598. 600.
Any act which, if done by a person of full age, would
be a conversion, will be a conversion if done by an
infant.
In the present case the bill of lading, which is a negotiable instrument, being in the name of Joseph
Smith, the plaintiff had no power or control over iti
It would unquestionably be a conversion if done by an
adult. The only question is, whether the nature of the
act'is altered by being done. by.an infant. 1 -,Tinm
Rep. 215. 745. 2 Teri. Rep. 63. 6 Term Rep. 131.
5 Term Rep. 583.

Swann, contra.
An infant is liable for actual, not fqr constructive
torts founded-upon contract, or bailment, which is in
the nature of a contract. If this case the action might
as well fave, been brought upon the contracgt, as upon

VAsss

V.

.80
VAVF

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the tort. If it had been brought upon the-contradtj
infancy would have been a bar.
The case is clearly within the reason of the law of
infancy, and it cannot be, in the power of the plaintiff
.by his form of action to deprive the defendant of his
defence. The case cited from Peake's Cases arose
entirely ex delicto. '. There are cases iii which infancy
may be given in evidence upon not guilty. 5 Burr
2826.
.flarch 5,
M.ARSHALL,

Ch.

IJ. delivered the dpinion of the

court as follows:
The first error, alleged in this record, cgnsists in
sustaining the plea of infancy to the first count in the
declaration.
This count states a contract between the plaintiff
and defendant, by which the plaintiff committed seventybarrels of flour to the care of the defendant, to be carried, to Norfolk, and there gold for money, or on
sixty days' credit payable'in drafts on Aiexandra, negotiable in the bank. The plaintiff then alleges that
the-defendant did Pot perform his duty in selling conformably to his instructions, but, by his negligence,
permitted the flour to be wasted so that it was lost to
the plaintiff.
This case, as stated, is corripletely- a case of contract, and exhibits no feature of such a tort as will
charge'an infant. Therecan be no doubt-but that the
court did right in sustaining the plea.
The second count is in, trover, and charges a -converz.'on of'the flour.
That-an infant is liable for a conversion is not contested. The circuit court was of itself of that opinion, and therefore sustained the demurrer to this
plea. But, in the progress of the cause, -it appeared

-

FE'BRUARY, 181G..'

"'231

that the goods were not taken wrongfully by- the defiendant, but were ecommitted to his care by the plainff, and that the conversion, if made, was made while
they were in his custody under a contract. The court
then permitted infancy to be given in evidence on the plea
of not guilty. To this opinion an exception was taken.
It infancy, was a bar to a suit of trover brought in
such a case, the court can perceive Tiq reason why it
may not be given in evidence on this plea. If it may
be giv~n in evidence on fon assumpsit, because th"
infant cannot contract, with at least as equal reasoi
may it be given in evidence in an action of trover in
a case in whh~h he cannot convert. But this court is of opinion that infancj is no complete bar to an action of trover, although the goods
converted be in his possession, in virtue of a previous
contract. The conversion is still in its nature a fort ;
it is not an act of omission but of commission, and is
within that class of offences for which infancy annot
afford protection. Yet it mar-be given in evidence,
for it rniay have some influence on the question, whether the act complaihed of be .rejaly a conversion, or
not.
The court, therefore, does not consider the-admisDion of this testimony as error.
The defendant exhibited the letter of instructions
under which he acted, which is in these words: " S i r,"
&c. but the plaintiff offered evidenc that the flour
was not sold in Norfolk, but was shipped by the defendant to the West Indies, for and on account of a certain Joseph Smith, as by the bill of lading which
was produced. The defendant then gave his infancy
in evidence, and prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed the testimony, he was not liable
on the second count stated in the plaintiff's declaration, which instruction the court gave, and to thir
opinion an exception was taken.
This instruction of the court must have been found.
ed on the opinion, that infancy is a bar to an action of

PAUM

.

SMI-TI.

23!9
'VAssa
Vt.

Sr.

'SUPREME COURT U. S.

trover for goods committed to the infant, under a contract, 'or that, the fact proved did not amount to a Ponversion.
This court has already stated its opinion to be, thit
an infant is chargeable with a conversion, although it
be 'of goods whikh came lawfully to.his possession.
It remains to inquire whether this is so clearly shown
not to be a conyersion, as to juitify the court in saying
to the jury, the di.fendant was not liable in this action.
The pfoof offered was, that the defendant shipped
the goods on account of Joseph Smith. This. fact,
stnding unconnected with any other, would unquestionably be testimony which, if not conclusive in favour of the plaintiff, was, at least, proper to be left
to the jury, But it is urged that this statemeflt reft:rs
to the bill of lading, from the notes in the' margin of
which it appe'ars that, although the bill of lading, which
was ior a much larger quantity of flour, was made"out
in the name of Joseph Smith. yet, in point of fact, the
shipment was made for various persons, and;' among
others, for the plaintiff.
.The court perceive, in this bill of exceptions, no
evidence explanatory of the terms.under which this
shipment was made, and the marks in the margin of
the bill of lading do not, in themselves, prove that-the
shipment was not rade. for the person in vhose name
the bill was filled up.
It is possible that it may have been proved to the
jury that this flour was really'intended to be shipped
on account of the.plaintiff, and that th6 defendant did
not mean to convert it to his own use. But the letter
did .not authorize him so to act. It was not, 'therefore, a complete discharge; and should it be amitted
thtt an infant is not chargeable with a conversion made
bk r istake, this testimony ou~ght ,still to have been
left to the jury. The defendant would certainly be at
liberty to prove that the shipment was in fact made for
Vssse, and that he acquiesced in it so far is to consider
the transaction not as a conversion; but without any of

FEBRUARY, 1810:

03 -

'hese circumstances which, if given in evidence, ought
to have been left to the-Jury, the court has declared

vissa'.
v.

the action not. sustainable.

This court is of opinion that the circuit court has
erred, in directing the jury that, upon the evidence
given, the defendant .was not liable under the second
count; for which their judgment is to be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.*
The Chief Justice noticed also the phraseology of the third hill of
exceptions. It prays the opinion of the court upon certain facts, without stating that any evidence of those facts was given to the jury. - It
is doubtful whether those facts exist in the cgse, and whether the court.
would be bound to give an opinion upon thX.

9USTISS v. THE GEORGETOWN AND ALEXANDRIA TURNPIKE. COMPANY.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of 'Co- An apped
lumbia, sitting at Alexandria, which had quashed an lies to the suinquisition taken by the marshal'condemning land of.romman order

Mr.'Custiss for a turnpike road.

of, the circuit
eourt of the
district of CoThe inquisition was taken under the 7th seqt6n of liinbia,.quashthe act of congress of the 3d of March, 1809.,Ito au. ing inq hn-

thorize the making of a turnpike road fromiMayin's
causey to Alexandria" vol. 9. p. 276. wiich provides, that it shall be lawful for the presidentand directors of the turnpike company to agree with the owners
of any ground to be occupied by the road and the necessary toll-houses and gates, for the right tfiereof and,
in
t
..
4 4
case of disagreement, on application t.one of the
judges of the circuit court, he shall issue a warrant directed to the marshal of the district to suramon a jury

ture of a writ
adm9'o',m. The circuit
court for the
district* of Columbia has nc,
jurisdiction.
upon mo on,
to quh an inqisition taken
uder the act
rected"to
authorize
of 24 inhabitants of the distridt of Columbia, of pro- the making of
perty and reputation, not related to the pal-ties, _nor in- road frtm -a-4
any manner interested, to meet on the land Jo be valued, son's causey" to
at a day to be-expressed-in the warrant, ,iot less than AlexantlriW'
ten nor more than twenty thereafter; -and the marshal,
upon receiving the said Wvarrant shal. forthinith summon
yol. VI,

G

