FEBRUARY, 1810.

327

It is the opinion of the court that the plaintiffs, 6y
their own showing,, are .not legal assignees to maintain
this action, in their own name-, and that the judgment
of the circuit court be arrested.

TYLER

TUZEL.

THE SCHOONER JULIANA v. THE UNITED
STATES;
and
THE SHIP ALLIGATOR v. THE UNITED
STATES.

THESE were appeals from the sentence of (the itio %vas
aginst
circuit court for the district of Mar land, affirming offiee
the
embar~go

the sentence of the district court, which condemned a,

, take

nut of
the schooner Jztiana, and the shup Ai-ator and gods
one veslandi
cargo, for a supposed violation of thF 3d section of ihe put themi nto
act of congress of the 9th. of january,1808, entitled annther ill the
"An act supplementary to the act, entitled anract lay- put .6f-Bali.
nire,

unless it

ing an embargo on all ships and vessels in- the ports be w;th an in
and harbours of the United Statea," by putting goods trnt to, export
from the Juliana on board the Alligator.
The libel, in the case of the Juliana, stated, that on
the first of January, 1808, she, being a Swedish vessel,
cleared from Baltmore for' Port au Prince, having-on
board 100 barrels of herrings,-which were on board
when her master was notified of the embargo, that
sbe proceeded on her voyage to her port of desunation,
but before she left Ptapsco river, there were laden on
board of her a complete cargo of.merchandise, foreign
and domestic, with which she proceeded, in pros-cution of her said voyage, until the 1st of Jpnuary, 1808,
when she was arrested by"the officer ot the customhouse of the port of Baltimore, and brought back,
after which, and while she was in that port,. viz. the
IIth of January, 1808, sundry goods, described in -the
libel,, were taken and removed from the Juliana and
put on board the Alligator, then lying in the port of

9SVPREMECOURT'U. S.
B.d imore, Cccontrary to the provisions of the statutes
328

JULIANA
V.,
Ta u. s.

of the said United Sates. in such case made and prwviSded, and with nitent to violate the provsiaons of the std
statutes, for whicl causeshe was seiz, d by the colk ecor
of that port as forfeited. The libel in the case of the
Alligator was a copy of that against the Juliana.
The words of that part of the 3d section of the act
of January 9, 1808, vol. 9. p. II. upon which theselioc-s were foIled, arc as follows:
Cc And

be it further enacted, that if any ship or vessel
shall, during the continuance of the act to which- this
act is a supol.-me nt, depart from any. port of the U.,ited
S at-s without a clearance or permit , or if ans ship or
vessel shadl, contrary to the provisions of this act, or of
the act to which this act is a supplem,-nt, procted to a
foreign port or place, or trade with or put on 'board of
anv other ship or vessel, any goods, wares or merch:ndise, of forrign or domestic growth or manufacture, such ships or vt ssls, goods, wares and merchandise, shall be wholly forfeited."
Harper and Mlartin, for the appellants, contended.
That the sentence ought to be reversed,
1. Because it appears from the libel that if any goods
were put on board the Alligator, it was after the Juliana liad been stized and brought back, and while the
Alligator was at the wharf a perfect hulk, totally unfit
to proceed on a voyage, and entirely passive as to any
improper use made of her.
2. The libel does not charge that the goods put on
board the Alligator were the same which were on
board the Juliana when she was seized and brought back.
S. It does not charge that tht owner of the Alligator
had any knowledge of, or concern in, the business.
4. The evidence is insufficient to prove any cause
-bf condemnation.

FEBRUARY, 180SM

_U9

5. It is -not averred that the goods were put on
board the Alligator with ntent to export them; which
is the offence contemplated by the act.

LIA.if4

TuE U. S;

6. The libel does not allege that the seizure was
made within the district of the seizing officer; nor upon
the water. It does not appear to be a case of admiralty
jurisdiction..
The Attorney-General, on the-next day, abandoned
the causes as untenable.
Sentence reversed, and restitution ordered.

THE SCHOONER RACHEL -. THE UNITED
STATES.

'THISL was an appeal from the sentence of the dis- Nosentenoe of.

c°ndemnitioa
trict court of the United States for the district of can
be affit, ed
'Orleans, which condemned the schooner' Rachel for if the law unwhich the
having traded with certain prohibited ports of St. Do- der
forfeiture
accrued 4as exmingo, contrary to the act of congress.
piredalthbugh

a condemnaand sale
The sentence of condemnation was passed, and the tion
vessel sold, and the proceeds paid over to tle United had taken place,
,the been
near hail
States, while the act was in force. The aerbad.since and
expired.. It was a case within the principle decided pid over to
United
af last term, in the case of Teaton and Towng v. The the
States before
expiratioe
United States, but it having been made;, a question the
law.
nf the
in.
ctourt,
whether the sale and payment over of th money did This
the
reversing
there
and
principl,e,
of
that
not prevent the, operation
being also a question. of jurisdiction, the cause stood sentence, will
orderto the
not
money
be
over to this term for consideration.
repahW,

but

award resThe general question of jurisdiction of. that court will
eieion nf the.
as if
property,
Serre
of
having been settled at this term in the case
of thesale no sale haft
and Laraldev. Pitotandothers, and the fd'ct
aEmitted,
and payment over of the money being
/
Tt
Vl. Vf.

