,FEBRUARY, 1810.

'-67

judgmemt in favour of the plaintiff on nis said first
count, and to award a writ of inquiry of.damages.*

8HEEy
MA DE.
VI LLS.

After the opinion was gven, C. Zee moved for a direction to the
court below to allow a plea ofnozn-assumpsis. The court said they had
never given directions respecting amendments, but had left that question to' the court below This court cannot now undertLke to say
whether the court belbw would bejustified in granting leave to amend.,

SKILLERN'S EXECUTORS -v.
MAY'S
EXECUTORS.

'THIS was a case certified from the circuit court It
is 'tooht
for the district of Kentucky, the judges, of that court to question the

being divided in opinion.

jurisdiction of
the
circuit
court after the
cause
sent has
backbeen
by

The former decree of the court below had- been
reversed in this court, and the cause " remanded for mandatek
further proceedings to ,behad therein, in order that an
equal and just partition of the .!,500 acres of land,
mentioned in the assignment of the 6tt of March,
1785, be made between the legal representatives of
the said George Skillern and the said John May."'
(Vide ante,v ol. 4. p. 141.)
The cause being before the court below uponr the
vnandate, the question occurred which is stated in the
following certificate, viz. "' In this case ,afinal decrec had been pronbunced, and by writ of error removed to the supreme cotirt, who reversed the decree,
and after the cause was sent back to this court it was
discovered to be a cause not.within the-jurisdiction of
the court; but a qtuestion arose whether it cbn now
be dismi'sstd for want of jurisdiction, after'the supreme cqurt had acted thereon. The opinion of the.
judges of this courq being opposed on -this question, it
is ordered "that the same be adjourned to the supreme
court for their decision," &c.
This. court,after consideration, directed the following
opinion to be certified to the court below, viz.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-SiL
.

1Pxits

MAV's

's

Ex',Rs.

-

" It appearing that the merits of this cause had
been finally decided in this court, and that its mandate

required only the execution of its decree, it is the
opinion of this'court thikt the circuit court is bound to
carry that decree into execution, although the jurisdiction of that court be not alleged i'n the pleadings."

THE CHESAPEAKE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. STARK.

agent
w'hoIhe
niake, in-

-ERROR to the circuit court of the district of 'Ma-

urance tor hiii

ryland, in an action of covenant upon a policy of insu-

rircip., tohas
atthlriky
3ut a

rance upon goods on board the ship Minerva, from

withl- Philadelphda to Laguira, and back to Philadelphia.

5ando"

fhirnal

The cause was tried upon the issue of ?ion infregit

uter of attrTil, inlfrm,teed
ltv'ofa

conv'otionem, and the jury found a special verdict,

f cehiul Isstating the tollowing facts:
11',l,(Iu r hili On the th of March4 1807, Christian Dannenberg,
)e unexcep- as agent of -the plaintiff; who was a citizen of Pcnnsyl|onable,

the vania, shipped for Laguira, on account, and at the sole

mmiiiitilyit, risk, of the plaintiff, sundry goods, being American
,lie u
;ler,
'i- propert',.and regularly documented assuch, to the valei.t is lnt es. lue of 8,700 dollars and upwards,- on board the ship
elitial to the Minerva, and consigned tl}emn'to William Parker, su-"
-ight of eathter
lt, I . hrpercargo on board.* On the 12th of March she sailed
.fthu.alha.don- with the goods fronbt Philadelphia for, Laguira.
unlt be, legal,
t

pits

the

On the 21st of March, Charles G. Boerstler,for the
IndIerwriCI,*
tiii plaintiff, effected an insurance with the Chesapeake Ihbt,
suoicd,

mitisturance Company, who are citizeiss of the state of

ie ag,.nt of M'VIaryland, upon the goods, to the anbunt of 8,W0 dol
:he:4St5i ben
t(L' -alars, by the policv mentioned in the .declaratioi, ,which
:

ft-ttO
thc was executed under the common seal of the company.
un, I-%%lees
I
!'1A bllit
On the outward voyage she was'captured by a British
di't isd retive

t(1.,h

..dwr privateer and carried into Curragoa.

iCollro.
thy
at ,udait.

April,

1B.0T,

On the-29th of

thel13th
the cmntain made a protest. OnOnthelhtth

