FEBRUARY, 1810.

221

were saved to the plaintiff, the circuit court did right MA-t. IN. Co
V.

in giving judgment for the damages found by the jury,
according to the value, of the vessel, fixed in the policy;
which judgment this court affirms with costs.

SLACUM-p. POMERY.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co- In an"action
lumbia, sitting in Alexandria, in an action of debt, by the endora
(under the law of Viginia,) brought by Pomtry against ' dorsof
Slacum, as endorsor of a bill of exchange, dated the foreign bill of
lia,
delelnuaotis
",
.
exchange, the
of Barba.
the island
6th of August, 1807, drawn in
does, by Charles Cadogan, a merchant residing there, biefordanagesa
to
at 60 days' sight, upon Barton, Irlam & Higginson, at aecording
the law of the
Liverpool, in England, for 138!. 17s. 9d sterling, pay- place where
able to Slacum or order, who endorsed it,vt Alexandria, the bill was enhe endorsein the district of Columbia, to the plaintiff.
ment is a new

The declaration was "1of a plea that he render unto and substactive
him one hundred and thirty-eight pounds, seventeen In an action
against
shillings and nine pence sterling money of Great Bri- of debr of
cxper a iitl
tain, with interest at the rate of five per centiun

annum, from the 23d day of December, eighteeh -hun- change, under
the statute of
dred and seven, until paid, -together With fifteen per Virginia, it is

that
cent. damages on the said one h4ndred and thirty-eight necessary
the declaration

pounds, seventeen shillings and nine pence, and ten should aver noshillings, and six pence sterling, of the value of two tice of the pro.
dollars and thirty-three cents, current money of the test fur nonit is not too
'United States, costs of protest) which 't- him le owes,'
&c.

late to allege,
s CrorI,

in the

appellatecourt,
a fault in the

It then stated the making and endorsing of the bill,
" I declar-ation

the non-acceptance and non-pa3 ment, and the protest for whicl ought to
aieprevented
and
of which premises,
non-paynient, r-" by-reason
rendition of
• by hthe
t
. .
•
io
made and -provie,,.tiljudgitint
force of the statute in that case
jd.court beplainiff to demand
action hath accrued to -the

have of the defendant jhe said sum of 1381. 17s. 9d. lo,.

sterling, and iiitreSt at the rate ot five per cent. per
annum, from. the 23d of December, 18u7, until paid,

222-

SUPREME: COURT U S.

together with fifteen'per cent.. d/images, ahd ten shil.
lings and six pence sterling, of the value, " &c.
Upon the trial of the cause op 'the issue of hil debet,
the defendant below took a bill of exeeptions, stating
that evidence was. offered of the bill, the endorsement
by the defendant to the plaintiff in Alexandria, (both
parties being inhabitAnts of that town,) the protest for
x'on-payment,' and that, by the laws of Barbaeoes. the
damages, upon protested bills of rxchangrwere only ten
per cent. upon the principal and interest due upon the bill;
Whereupon thedefendant prayed the courtto instruct the
jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover more
than. the damages allowed upon protested hills according to the law of Barbadoes, and that he was not enfitled in this case to fifteen per cent. damages, which'
instruction the court refused to give.
The verdict and judgment being for the plaintiff,
for the whole 'amount demanded in the declaration,
the defendant brought his writof error.
The act of assembly of Virginia (P. P. 113.) provides, " that where any bill of exchange is or shall be
drawn for the payment of any sum of money, in which
the value is or shall be expressed to.be 'received, and
such, bill is or shall be protested for fion-acceptance or
non-payment, the drawer or endorsor shall be subject
.to fifteen per centum damages thereon, and the bill
shall carry an interest of five per centuni per annum,
from the date of protest, until the money therein
dra'i;n for shall be fully satisfied and -paid." "1And
that it shellbe lawful for any person or persons hav'ing
a right to demand any sum of money upon a protested
bill of. exchange to commence and prosecute an action'
of. debt for principal, damages, interest and charges of
protest; against the drawers or endorsors jointly, or
:against either of them separately; and judgmient" shall
and may be given for such principal, damages and
charges,' and interest upon stich principal, after the rate.
afoyesaid to the time 6f such-judgment, and'for interest
upon the said'principal money recovered aifter the rate.
4'

FEBRUARY, -181o.

of five per centum per annum, until the same shall be
fully satisfied.
Swtan, for the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That the aamages must be according to the law
of the place where the bill was drawn.
2. That it was not averred in the declaration that
the defendant had notice of the protest for non-payment. And although this might have been taken advantage of .in the court below 'in arrest of judgment,
yet it was also a fatal objection upon a writ of error.
The record does not show that theplaintiff Was entitled
to his judgment. Doug. 679.
oungs, contra.
This, is not an action upon the custom of merchants,
but upon the statute of Virginia.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. It has never been doubted in
Virginia, that notice is as necessary in an action upon
the statute, as upon the custom of merchants.

2"oungs. There was no motion in arrest of judgment. This objection was not taken in the court below.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. There can be io doubt that

any thing appearing upon the record, '-hich would have
been fatal upob a motion in arrest of judgment is
equally fatal upbn a writ of error.
oungs. This court, in the case of Mandeville .v.
Riddle, 1 Chinch, 290. decided$ that an action by a
holder of a promissory note against an endorsor is
only by reason of the value received, and yet in the
6ase of Wilson v. Codman, 3 Cranci,. 193. 208. this
court decided that the averment of value- received was
an immaterial averment, and need not be proved.
In our case if notice were necessary to entitle the

SLACUbI

v

PoohgRY

SUPREME COURT U. S.
5,AV.

Y.

plaitiff to a verdict, it will be presumed, after verdict,
that notice was proved.
The statute upon which this action is founded dues
not require notice. The declaratiou avers all that the
statute -requires to constitute a cause of action. The
want of notice is only to be taken advantage of by the
defendant itilhis defence at the trial. The time of
bringingthis action shows that reasonable notice was
given. This court has decided that it is not necessary
ro gIve notice of a protest for-non-acceptance.
As to the question of damages. The law of the place
where the contract was made must prevail. The contract of the defendant as endorsor, was made in Alexandria. Every endorsement creates a new contract,
and is in the nature 4f a new bill.
Mliarch 5.
MARSHALL,

'Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court as follows, viz.
Upon a critical examination of the act of assembly
on which this action is founded, the court is of opinIbn that t is rightly brought. Although the drawer
of the bill was not liable to the damages of Virginia,
the enqorsor is kubject :to them,'he having endorsed
the bill in Alexandria.- The words .of the act are,
that -vhere a bill of exchange shad-be protested, " the
drawer or endorsor shall be subject to 15 per cent.
damages thereo'a." The third section gives an action
of debt " against the drawers or endorsors jointly, or
against either of them, separately. The act of assembly appears to contemplate a distinct liability in
the endorsor, founded on the contract created by his
own endorsement, which is not affected by the extent
of the liability of the drawer. This is the more reasonable, as a bill of exchange is taken as much on the
credit of the endorsor, as of the drawer; and the- endorsement is understood to be not simph the transfer
of the paper, but a new and a substantive contract.

FEBRUARY, 181Q.

. 25

There is, howeVer, an objection taken to this decla.
It emits to allege notice f-the protest; ai

ration.

omission which .is deemed fatal.
It has been argued that the act bf-assembly,-which give6 the action of debt, not requiring notice to be
laid in the declaration,, that requisite, which is *only
essential' in an action founded on the custom of merchants, is totally dispensed with. But this court is not
of that opinion. In giving the action of debt to the
holder of a bill of exchange, and in giving it the dignity of a specialty, the legislature has notaltered the
character of the paper in other respects. It is still a'
pure pommerdal transaction governed by commercial
law Notice,.of the protest is still necessary, and th
omission to aver it in the declaration is still fatal.
Had this error. been moved in arrest of judgment,
it is presumable the judgment woui-d have been arr<sted; but it is not'too- late to allege, s erfor, in this
court, a fault in the deciration, which ought to have"
j5revented the rendition.. of & judgment in the court
below.
The judgment is arrested, and the cause remanded
with direction that the judgment be arrested.
-After the opinion was delivered, Toungs prayethat, the cause might be remanded with leave to amena
MARsMA.L, Ch. 3. Here is a verdict which niust
be set aside before an amendment can be allowed.

It might be set aside by. the court'below, but this'
can see no reason in the record for setting it
aside.

-court

VO. V

SLAcuk
oV.

