FEBRUARY,. 18O .

187

February19..
o

.

..

delivered' the' opinion of the
ourt to the following -effect.
MARSAM.L, Cli.

M'K -soiF
v

CRAIGtS

4.DM'k.

The .'act of assembly of Virginia, is copied .almost
literally from theEnglish statute of 8 and 9 . II. c.
11., The case in 6 A1 od. is 'a decision expressly upon
that statute, and is precisely in point, that the defendant upon the scireffacias can only pleitd what -the intestate could have Oleaded; and that it is not to be conof
sidered at'a proceeding agaifist the representative
original ation.
the deceased, but a continuance of the
The plea is such as could not have been pleaded in
the o'riginal action, and is therefore bad.
.eThe judgment must b reverse.d, and the
ronded for, the defendant to plead to me original
action, if he should think proper.*

Lee,. the Chief Justice anTo.a question by E.
swered, that -if the plaintiff in error should obtain a
judgment in the -court below, it Will 'of course be iwith
costs. So in all cases of reversal, if. this court direct
.the court below to entei -judgment for the plaintiff ia
error, the ourt'below will,:of course, enter the judgment witlh the costs of that court.
below considered this case as coming wvittin th e act
'Thecourt
ofongress, vol I.p 71. si'pb.ted 24th September, 1789, wirieh
Authonzes the court "to renderjudgment for or against the execatlor
qZ-adminisrrator;as the case may require." It does-uot alpear whether
tiat act.vas taken into consideration by this court.

KENNEDY ,. BRENT.

ERROR to the circtiit court for the di~ttict of Co- The marshal
lumbia, qitting at Alexandria. in an action' on th- case of the district
iis
by Kennedy against Brent, marshal of the district of y ntu tColill
to serve
d

188
gnmin
BP,'T.
a subpoena in
chatcery* as
oon,as he reasonably car;
and the service
ofsuch subof-

SUBREME COURT U. S.

Columbia, for the neglect of his, deputy in not serving
a z.bpwna in chaneiry, cQmmofily called a chancery attachmn at. in. due time, whereby the plaintiff 'lost his
The declaration 'stated that one Johnston, who did

not Teside in the district of Columbia, was indebted to
the plaintiff, a resident of. Alefiandria in that distric,
chancery at- and that one Hampson wa indebted to Johnston ; that
wi in order to subject
i-gchrnawt
... the money in HampsQn's hand to
will
irginia,
ake the par. the payment -of the debt due from, Johnston, the plain
shee liabc if tiff, on the 13th of December, 1"804, filed, his bill 'in
',-pays awvay ch ancer. in'the, circuit court of 'the district for the
t money at* C ance- 7
x notice of county of Alexandria, and caused to.be issued a subLesubpMna.

pxna in chancery against Johnston. and Hampion to

answer the bill, which subpxna was then and there delivered to'the defendant's deputy to be executed: and
was prosecuted.with an intentionthat the debt due from
Hampson to Johnston would be subjected to the payment of the debt due from Johnston',to the plaintiff.
Nevertheless, th defendant, by his said deputy, not regarding his office of marshal in the true execution thereof,. bit contriving and fraudulently intending to hinder
the plaintiff of his proper reiedy for the recovery of hie.
debt'aforesaid, didnot serve tle said'sub6pnain char'ery
upon thlsaid Hampson within a reasonable time aftet
receiving the'same to "be executed as aforesaid, but
neglected to serve the said process, without anyreasona.
ble cause for so doing, fora long time, to wit, for the space
of four months and upwards, by. mieans of which said
neglect the said defendant altogether lost the effect of
his said suit in chancery against the said Johnston and
Hampson as aforesaid, wherefore the plaintiff saith he
is injured, and hath sustained damage,, &c.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and a verdict, by
constnt, was rendered for the plaintiff, subject to the
opinion of the court upon a case agreed, which stated
that on the 18th of December, 1804, the plaintiff filed
his bill in chancery against Johnston and Hampson in
the common form of a bill for a chancery attachment
in Virginia. And that the clerk of the court, at the
instance of the plaintiff, issued a process commonly

FEBRUARY, 181o.

189

tiled q chancery attachment, being a subpena in the KrNzvD
v.
common form to answer abill.in chancery, upon which
BRZNT.
Was -thefollowing endorsement, viz, ".Memorandum.
The object of -thetbill this day filed in this case is to
stay the moneys and effects of the defendant Johnston
in the- hands of the'defendant Hampson, to satisfy a
debt due from-the'defendant Johnston -to.the complain,
ant.
(Signed)

"G.

DESEALF."

That this process, shortly after it was i~s. d, was put
into the hands *of.W.*-Pox, one of the defendant's deputies to be executed, and might have been served by
him.if he had endeavoured to have served the same,
but it so happened that he did not serve the same, and
that it afterwards got intothe hands of Lewis Su'hmers, another of the defendant's deputies, who served
the same on the 20th day of June, 1805r and made the
foUowing', return thereupon: -11 received -this attach.
mrnt shortly after it issued, and delivered it to W.
Fox, D M. to serve,. who shortly after left the't6wn
of Alexandria, leaving in the marshaVs office two bundles of process, one marked 'process served,' and, the
other 'process not served.) In. the first bundle -was
this subpcena in chancery. On or about May or June
last I was informed .it had not theui been served. I
then examined this process and found i withoutany
endorsement, and took the barliest opportunity to inquire'of Mr. Fox as to the service of the subpcna,
who inf3rmed me he did not recollect having served
it. I then, on. the 20th of June, sei'ved the same on
Bryan Hampson. The other defendant Johnston not
found.
-(Signed)

"L.. SuxERxs, D.M."

Whereupon it was agreed that the Serdic should be
subject to the opinion of -the court upon the following
...
.
.
. questions:
" 1. As the marshal by his deputy executei the process on the -20th of June, 1805, beforc 'the day ap-

i:s.nih'
S

9UPR.EmE' OUR , Ut. S.
19)
pointed for the return thereof, -and returned the same
on'tie return day-thereog whether.he was in law bound
to have served the same, if in his power-so to do, at
any time previous to the. shid 20th of -June, 1805, un=
less he was--specially re4uired 'by the plaintiff to servethe same, notwithstandiag- he received the same as
,marshal on -the day on which thk said process was is.
sued.

-

"2. Whether the endorsement on the said process of
subpcena would, after serVite thereof. create any legal
impediment to' the payment of the money over -o, the
said Johnston by th6 said Bryan Hampson, and would,
in case -of such payment after service, make the' said
Bryan Hampson pershnally liable for the amountso
paid over.

"If the court should be of opinion that the said
marshal was not hounid to have served the said pro?
cess, if in his power to do so at any time previous to
the 20th of June, 1805, (unless he was specially required by the plaintiff to serve the same, notwithstanding qhe received the same as marshal on the day on
which the said process issued,) then the judgment is
to be rendered for the defendant.
"And if, under the circumstances mentioned in the
second "question, the court should be of opinion, that
the said Bryan Hampson would not be personally liable for the amount so paid over, and that his not being personally lihble would be sufficient td discharge
the marshal from any, liability in this casp, then juag.
meat is to be rendered for the defendant.
"But if both those questions are decided for the
plaintiff, then judgment -upon the verdict is to be 'rendered for him."
The court below was of opinion that the statement
of the case was not full enough to justify a verdict for
the *plaintiff, and directed-judgment to be entered up
for the defendant; whereupon the plaintiff brought his
writ of error.
5

FEBRUARY, IO0

191

.Ywann for plaintiff in error.The miarshal is .bound to serve alt process put into
his hands for servlee, as soon as possible, and if .he
does.not, he is liable, ip a special actiohn on the case, to
any party who suffers any injury by his neglect. Jac..
.abr.tit. Sherif.
The service of the subpoena in this case would have
bound Kennedy, and if he should pay over ihe money
after service of the subp=4, he would do it at his
peril. If there should be a decree against him he could
not avoid it by showinj that he paid away the money
after notice. The decree would relate back to the time
of notice.
..

Lee, contra.

* The. marshal is not bound to serve process as soon
-as he can by any pqssibility serve it,-which was the principle which the court below was called upon, by the
case stated, to sanction.
It is sufficient in such' a case as this, if he serve it
at any time before the return day. The endorsement
is no part of tie process.* The marshal was not bound
to serve that, or to give notice of it to the defendant.
All that he was commanded to do was to summon the
defendant to answer the bill according to the command
of the subpcena. *The endorsement was a mere pri.
vate notice. It might have been served by any person,
and Would have been as obligatory upon limpson as
if served by .the marshal. This was the opinion of
Chancellor Wyihe, in the case of Davis v. Ftton.
.February 28.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. d~Iivered the opinion of the
court to the following effect.

The questions intended to be submitted to the-court
were, 1st. Whether the marshal was bound to serve
this process as soon as he reasonably could; andf 2.

KEED'
V.
BaiT.

-UPREM COURT U. S.
192
.Y
-D Whether the service of such process would have made
B .
Hampson liable in case he had paid ovet the money after such service.' On these poipts the: court, has no
doubt. But the.case is imperfectly stated. It does
not appear that the plaintiff has sastiined any loss by
the neglect of. the officer to, serve the Process, and for
this reason
The judgment is affirmed.

KORN AND WISEMILLER v. THE MUTUAL

-ASURANCE SOCIETY. AGAINST FIRE ON
BUILDINGS OF THE STATE OF VIRGINIA.

rhe separ-

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.

Ii a from Vir- ]i

is, did not
ct
existing
bec.ftracts
Sen, indivl:
It ils. The iniu ance uo

hra,- sitting at -Alexidria.

This was a motion, in the court below, in the name
o the principal agent of the Mutual Assurance Society
for judgment against Korn &- Wisemiller for 116 dol -

c Wine upo lars," being the amount due from them for a half quota

exandrla did under a declaration for insurance made to the society"
h separation,
cease by with 6 per cent. interest
thereon from the 1st day of
.
al hbugh, the June, 1805"

:o npany could
an y
insure

bc uses in VirThe court below gave judgmept according to the
U02
tin. The oh. motioti, and the-defendants
brought their writ of'error.
.
ri ation ojf the,
in red to con-

-ibute,
does
cese

at

This society was incorporated .by the legislature of

ini"rr
zosequenceof
Virginia, by an act passed on the 22d of December,

hiif hisforfeiture
ovn in- 1794, entitled "An act for establishinga' Mutual Assu-'
i-ance by his rance Society against fire on buildings in this state."

Du n neglect.
All the mem
The principles
of the society are declared to be.
r
bees of the
en npany are "That the citizens of this state may insure their buildbou nd by the ,so
ho of the Ma. ings against "the losses and damages occasioned acciiority.
No dentally by fire; and that the insured pay the losses and

aenmber

can expenses, eas~h his sbare.accotding to the sum insured."

