FEBRUARY, 1810:

03 -

'hese circumstances which, if given in evidence, ought
to have been left to the-Jury, the court has declared

vissa'.
v.

the action not. sustainable.

This court is of opinion that the circuit court has
erred, in directing the jury that, upon the evidence
given, the defendant .was not liable under the second
count; for which their judgment is to be reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.*
The Chief Justice noticed also the phraseology of the third hill of
exceptions. It prays the opinion of the court upon certain facts, without stating that any evidence of those facts was given to the jury. - It
is doubtful whether those facts exist in the cgse, and whether the court.
would be bound to give an opinion upon thX.

9USTISS v. THE GEORGETOWN AND ALEXANDRIA TURNPIKE. COMPANY.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of 'Co- An apped
lumbia, sitting at Alexandria, which had quashed an lies to the suinquisition taken by the marshal'condemning land of.romman order

Mr.'Custiss for a turnpike road.

of, the circuit
eourt of the
district of CoThe inquisition was taken under the 7th seqt6n of liinbia,.quashthe act of congress of the 3d of March, 1809.,Ito au. ing inq hn-

thorize the making of a turnpike road fromiMayin's
causey to Alexandria" vol. 9. p. 276. wiich provides, that it shall be lawful for the presidentand directors of the turnpike company to agree with the owners
of any ground to be occupied by the road and the necessary toll-houses and gates, for the right tfiereof and,
in
t
..
4 4
case of disagreement, on application t.one of the
judges of the circuit court, he shall issue a warrant directed to the marshal of the district to suramon a jury

ture of a writ
adm9'o',m. The circuit
court for the
district* of Columbia has nc,
jurisdiction.
upon mo on,
to quh an inqisition taken
uder the act
rected"to
authorize
of 24 inhabitants of the distridt of Columbia, of pro- the making of
perty and reputation, not related to the pal-ties, _nor in- road frtm -a-4
any manner interested, to meet on the land Jo be valued, son's causey" to
at a day to be-expressed-in the warrant, ,iot less than AlexantlriW'
ten nor more than twenty thereafter; -and the marshal,
upon receiving the said Wvarrant shal. forthinith summon
yol. VI,

G

234
CusTIss
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the said jury;-and when met, proviaed.there be not less
than twelve, shall administer an oath or affirmation to

TURN.PKE

CoPANy.

t

,

every juryman that shall dppear, that he shall faithfully,
justly, and impartially value the lands, and all damages
the owner thereof shall sustain, by opening the road
through such land, according to the best of his skill
and judgment; and that the inquisition thereupon
taken shall be signed by the marshal and the jurymen
present, and returned by the marshal to the clerk of
the county, to be by him recorded; and upon every
such valuation the jury is hereby directed t6 describe
and ascerthin the bounds of the land by them valued,
and their valuation shall be conclusive upon all persons;
and shall be paid by the president and directors to the
owner of the land, or his or her legal representatives.;
and on payment thereof, tie said land shall be taken
and occupied. for o nublic rgad, and for the necessary
toll-houses and gate for ever "
On the applicatio, of .the president and directors of
the company, a w.rrhnt was granted, and an inquisition
taken and returned tb the clerk. Before it was recorded, the president and directors -obtained from the
6ircuit court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandrid, a role upon Mr. Custiss to show cause why
the inquisition should nbt be quashed. Mr. Custiss
appeared and objected to the jurisdiction of the court,
but tircdurt overruled the objection, and, upon hearing,
quashed the inquest.
From this order Mr. Custiss appealed to this court.
E. Y.-Lee, for the appellant.
"he circuit court had no jurisdiction of the case
upon nrotion. No such jurisdiction is given by the
.act of congress. It directs the marshal to return the,
inquisition to the o ice of the clerk, to be by him recorded. The remedy, if any exists, is by bill in equity.
I his was an application to the court as a: court of law.
Even the gourt itsell, in recording dee6, acts in a miI.
nisterial capacity. 2 Hen. & Ailunf. 132. 135. .1 I.
605. Rex v. 6ustices of Derbyshire. 6 Term Rep. as.

FEBRUARY, 1l810o

035

F. 3. Key, and4 C. Lee, cbptra..
The court .must of necessity'possess a power and
control over its own record. Suppose the clerk should
refuse to record'the inquisition; oi suppose he is about.
to record an irregular and informal inquisition; Will not
.the court control him ? Such a'jurisdiction is exercised
by the courts in England without the authority of any
statute.
The case from Hening & Muunford only decides
that the -court cotild not inquire into the'right of ihe
party to make the deed, or to ino0uire into- the title or
contending claims. But the court must sed whether
it be a deed or not; whether it be proved by the proper
number of witnesses, and whether it be sealed."
The clerk of the court could not put any thing upoit
record without the authority of the court.
This court cannot correct the error, if it be one,
No writ of. error *ill lie in such a case. This court
can correct only error in law, and this, if it be an error,
is an error in fact.
March 5.
MARSHALL, .Ch. J. delivered the opmiuo.n of the
court as follows:

At the opening of this case, some doubt Was entertained respecting the jurisdiction of the supreme court,but that doubt is removed by an inspection of the act
by which the circuit court of the district of Columbiais constituted. The words of thqt act,.descriptive of the
appellate jurisdiction of this court, are more ample than
those employed in the judicial act. They are, that" any
final judgment, order or -deciee in said circuit court,
wherein the matterin dispute, exclusive df costs, shall
exceed the value of 100 dollars, may be re-xantined and
reversed or affirmed in the supreme court,
The jurisdiction of this covrt being admitted, the
proceedings of the circuit court, in ordering the inqui-

cusi 10.
Tuua cE
CaMPN.

236
CUSTTSS
V
TURNPIKE

SUPREME COURT U. S.

sition taken between these parties to be quashed, comes
on to be examined.

COMPA NY.

-The

first objection to this proceeding is, that the

court of Alexandria could take no cognisance of the
subject, by way of motion.
The validitV of this objection depends entirely on the
act of congress, under which this inquisition was taken.
If it was to be recorded by order of the court, if the
judgment of the court was, in any manner, to be exercised upon it, then, in all which has been done, the
court has exercised its jurisdiction, and the inquiry
wi'lbe whether there was sufficient cause for refusipgto
on the other
pei.nit the inquisition to be recorded. If,
hand, the clerk was a mere ministerial officer directed,
by law, to perform a ministerial act, without'any superintending agency, on the part of the court, then the
court could not, upon motiot,.prohibit the clerk to perform his duty, and could not legitimately quash the inquisition.
The act of congress directs "that the inquisition,
when taken, shall be signed by the marshal and by the
jurt men present, and returned by the marshal to the
clei k of the county, to be by him recorded."
That the legislature may direct the 'clerk of a court to
perform a specified service, without making his act the
act of ihe court, will not be controverted: and, if this
ma) be done, it is difficult to.conceive words which
.convey this idea m6re clearly, than those which are
employed in this cct.
The Iinquisition is ijot return~able to the court, but to
the clerk. It is not to be recorded by order of the
eourt, but is to be recorded by'the clrk, on receiving it
from the marshal. Itdoes not derive its validity from
being recorded, but remains afterwards liable to all the
objections which might be taken to it, previous thereto.
It, or example, an inquisition should be recorded which
w!as tound by eleven jurors, that inquisition would rieither vest: the land in the company, nor give a right to

FEBRUARY, 1810.

237

the former proprietor to demand the money to which
it was valued. The inquisition, then, is to be recorded
solely for preservation, and the'act of recording is a
ministerial-act whith the law direct9 the clerk to perform, without submitting the paper to the judgment of
the court. The law asks not the intervention of the
court, and requires no. exercise ofjudicial functions.

CUsTIsZ
V.
COMPANY.

The difference between this act and those, the execution of which is superintended by the court, is apparent. In those cases, the instrument is to be brought
into court, and acted upon by the court: in thi's it is
to be delivered to the clerk at any time, and acted on
by him without the intervention of the court.
This court is unanimously of opinion that the circuit
court for the county of Alexandria could not legalfy entertain the motion for quashing the inquisition found in
this case, nor legally prevent their clerk from recording
it. Their-judgment, therefore, is reversed, and the
motion to be dismissed.

LODGE'S LESSEE -,..LEE.

EJECTMENT by Lodge against Lee, foi part of -Agant o'a,
an island in the Potomac river, called Eden, but now !sland 1y name
generally called Lee's island.
n
rveririrSupe -1d.
The plaintiff's lessor had taken• up the land in the
Year 1804, as vacant, supposing that the defendant's
claim must be bounded by the course and distance, allowing one degree of variation' for every 20 years since
the certificate of survey was made •under
which the de"
fendant claims.
The defendant claimed under a patent from the
lord proprietor of Maryland, dated in 1723, which
granted to Thomas Lre "all that tract or upper island
of land, called _Fden, lying a d being in Prince George

,ang the courdistanses
ces and
of the
lines
thereof, which

resurrev
on
ire now
fonni
to exclude jart
Of tifepassisland,
will'
the
hole island.

