SUPREME 'OOUT"U. So

28

i
M.AoND.

SMITH m_ THE STATE OF" MARYLAND, AT
THE INSTANCE 'AND FOR THE USE OF CAR!
ROLL AND MACCUBBIN.

A -.vri"ofer- -ERROR to-tle court of appeafs of' the state of
vzr lies to the Marylaid,.b ing the highest court of law and equity in
hanhighest . urt that Atgte ; Andwhich affirmed the dedee of the hn
.f . statei
a crse where cellor of M[aryland.
the qetion is

fseatiounder.

-he fqcts-of the case appear to be dotrectly statedin

the Ia of the the- decree of the chancellor, which was as follows:
eQanae was
ttra
~T
•-plete
"before.
kThemterfr facts appearbig in'tfht case are, that
the ^ re o
L a
w.ith co the, 4th"of July, 1774, the lands menioned in the'

kai. .obill- were conveyed by Anve Ottey, heir at law of WilWilliam Smith, one of' the defendants*
.
eqiable inter- andthat an act of assembly. passed in' June, 1779, fo
cts of Brkitsh recording the deed of conveyance which had 'not been
h
wIt
eubjecto wsere reod
confiaet er recorded-within'the time limited by law. Thaton the"
without oflee th-of July 1774, Smith executed abond of conveyance
to Anne-Ottey, widow of William Ottey, and that at
fouod,orentry
or other "act
done, and ai- the time of passing1the ki. of October, 1780, r. 45.
though such I to seize, cnfiscaie and appropriate all British pvoperv
a
I
equitable interests'lere not within this state,' he held the said lands under the
discovered un- sail deed, subject to the terms of the sai& bond of conto iohg aftr .
veyance, and in trust for the said Anne Oftey, then:
the peaoe..
and now nliritish subject, and that the lands are now
held in the same manner.- That on the 27th of April,
10t the complainants, Carroll and Blaccubbin, gave
'information of this property. being so held, to the
state's agent, .and claimed the composition held out by
law on the -said information. That on, the 22d of Fe '
bruary, 1803, the governor and eouncil agreed-tosell the
stabs right to. the said lands t6 the,, said Carroll and
Maccubbm .-. That a survey w.ja made and a plat returnedahd bond gi-en for-the purchase-money on the
smh of April, i8 ,a.
ny

fiscting act of lia4. 0tty,t6

The object of. the bill is to compel the defendant
Smith to .produde in thls dourt -all deeds, p-pers and
writings respecting the said' land, an4 to convey the
-

FEBRUARY, 1810.'

287

same to the said Carroll And Maccubbin, and for general relief, &c.'
"The positions relied on by, the complainants in their
notes are, that the property so held in trust, for a British subjecti or in which a British subject-had an equitable interest, but no legal estate, was liable to confiscation
under the laws of this stite, and was confiscated by them;
and that there is nothing in 'any treaty between the
United States and Great Britain, to protect the said
property, or to prevent its being liable to their claim.
"For the 'defendants i0s contended that the 6th article
of the treaty of the 3d of September, 1783, declaring
that tkere should be no future confiscations made, had
the effect of preventing any transfer, by the executive,
of property which might have been confiscatedi but was
only legally, and not actually transferred from private to
public use, or from the possessor to the state ; and that
such transfer by the. executive must be considered as.
a future confiscatIon, or setting apart -for the ptublic,
property the use of which an individual had, and there.
fore contrary to the stipulations of the treaty. And it
is also contendedthat' under the 9.th article of the British
treaty of the 19th of November, 1794, (by which it'
was agreed that the British subjects who theii held lands
in the territories of the United States should continue
to hold them according to the nature and tenor of their
respective estates and tides therein,) this property is
protected, being then held by the defendant Smith, as
agent ofand for Anne Ottey, a British subject, and there.'
fore then held by her.
"In a case of this nature where an important question
as to the Operation of a treaty arises- it would be satisfactory to the chancellor to have the opinion of a court
of law, or its judges. The laite change in the judiciary
has however rendered the obtaining such an opinion
less practicable than it formerly was; and it appears
also that the most material.ground taken by the defendants has been already decided on by the general cout
in the case of orwood's Lessee v. Owings.

SMITH

V.

MARYLAND.

SUPREME COURt U. S.
sMTA
MARYLAD.

"A number of points were decided in that case, but
the one most applicable to the present question was the

determination by the court, or the opinion expresser,
that the state of Maryland by their commissioners was
in possession of all British property within the.limits of
the state, under and by virtue of the act of confiscation,
Octoberj 1780, c. 45. and the act of the same session
c. 49. to appoint commissioners, &c.: and the posses.
sion of the said land was in the state of Maryland at
the time the said Edward Norwood obtained his escheat warrant, and that no British subject could hold
land'in the state of Maryland onthe 19th of November,
1794, the time when the treaty was entered into between
Great Britain and the United States.
"It is not necessary at-this time to declare any opibion as to the intent and meaning of the 9th article of
that treaty, or to ascertain to what'part of the territories
of the United States it might have applied. "It is suf.
ficient to observe.that according to the opinion of the
general court, standing as yet unreversed, it could not
apply to this state.
"There is nothing in this case to induc6the chancel.
lor to determine contrary to that opinion'; and if the
holding of the land by'Smith-for- Aine Ottey was a_
holding .by her in October-, 1780, and occasioned its
confiscation, it cannot be considered that she held the
land in November, 1794, so as to be enabled,-by the
9tharticle of the treaty with GreatBritain then made,
to continue to hbld it according to the nature and tenor of her estate.
" The words of the 2d section of the act of October,
1780, c. 45. are, ,'That all property within this state,
(debts only excepted,) belonging to British subjects shall
be seized, and is hereby confiscated'to the use of this
state,' and uhder this general expression, it is considered that land in which the legal title was held by a
citizen of this state in trust for a British subject, (as is
the case now in questioii,) was included,
6

FEBRUARY,. 1810.

"',
That this-was the congtruction given

28R
tote act ap-

SMITU

pears from the. subsequent conduct of. the legislature" MA,..D
and the executive oi" this state, and particularly by the.
first section-of the act of 1784, c. 81. which directs,
that the intendant of the revenue-be authorized and required to call on all persons having confiscated British
property in their possession, or the title papers thereof,
or relating thereto,.to discover and deliQer up the same;
and if the said intendant has probable and good ground
to suspect that any person-holds the same in trustjor
.any British subject, or conceals the same, or any deeds,
,writings or evidence of the titles to such property, he
may and shall direct -the attoruey-gen#ral to file a bill
in the high court of chancery, -on behalf of this state,
for the discovery of such trust or concealed proierty,
and for .delivering up such deeds, writings, and evidence of title, to the same; thereupon proceedings shall
be had, and decree made, according to the rules .of the
high court of chancery in such caseS.
"And it will be observed that, by the fifth article of
the treat, of 1783, the recommendation to be made for a
ress. ution of property confiscated, extends to all estates,
rights and properties.
" If, then, this property was contgcated, and the right to
itvested in the state by the acts-of October, 1780, ce45."
and c. 49. the* chancellor does not perceive how it-zan
be affected by the sixth article of the treaty of 1783, declaring that there should be no future confiscations
madt.
"The future acts of confiscation to be restrained by
that *article were absolute confiscations, and not the
dispositions that might be necessary for those which
had been made.
"Such dispositions might have been the subject of
considerafion, if the recommendations made for aresti.
tution of property confiscated, had beenrcom'plied with.
by this state.
"Considering, then, the lands in question. to have been
Vol. ,L
0 o

290

SUPREME COURT U. S:

confiscated, and that the right of the state, or those
DTAVtYLAND claiming under the state, is not affected by either of the
~ treaties which have been relied on,.it remains only to
inquire as to the grounds of the complainants' application to thig court, and the nature of the relief to whid
they may be entitled.
SMIXt

"The act of 1802, c. 100. under which the complaiiaanti allege that the purchase was made, declares, that
it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons
purchasing as aforesaid any confiscated British pro-,
perty under the authority of this act, to prosecute any
suit or suits, either in law or equity, in the name of
the state, for recovery of said property for their use.
"&
If this property had not been sold,it might have
been competent for the state to have proceeded by suit
to devest the legal estate from the defendlant William
Smith ; and it seems consonant to equity, and to the pro.
viions of the actjust mentioned, that in the present
case it should: be vested in the complainants, who
were the purchasers from tte.state."

Then follows the formal part of the decree, that
Smith should convey the land to Carroll and Maccubbin. From this decree Smith appealed to the court of
appeals of Maryland, ,who confirmed the decree;
whereupon he brought his writ of error to this court,
under the pitovisions of the 25th section, of the judi.
U. S. vol. f. p. 63. the. deciary act of 179, Lvs
cision being against the right claimed under the treaty,
J7ohnson, for tlhe plaintiff in error.

The question in the case is, whether a British su.b
ject %ihoinfact by her agent and trustee,-held land in'
.Marylain4, before the revolution, and continued to holdit undisturbed until thfe. year 1802, is protected by the
treaties; or whether'our acts of confiscation were so
operative as to enable an informer, in a court of equity,
to compel the trustee to convey -the legal estate to
him.

1 ~ftuARY;" 181oX

.291

sMivt
ThIs -depends upon' the true construction of the act
v.
,f assembly of Maryland, and of the treaties, with. AIAUYLA.N,
Great Britain.
It, is for this court to 'decide whether the construc-.
'ton which the Maitvland courts have given to .thtir
acts of 'assembly, be .consistent with the true con,
struction of those treaties.
The 5th and 6th articles of' the treaty .ot peace of
the 3d of September, 1783, (Laws U. S. vol. 1. p.
482.) relate to this subject, and, are both to be taken
into view in order to ascertain what the 6th article
means when it says, " there shall be no future conf.cations rhade."
By the tth artile it is agreed that congress shall
earnestly recommend the restitution of confiscated property belonging to real British' subjects, and also o
persons resident in'districts in the possession of his maa
jesty's arms, who had not borne arms against the United
States. This was contemplateid to be do-pe withoit'payment therefor. But as to thertfugec ;vho had borne
arms against the United States, congress was to re.
commend restitution only upon the terms of payment
(to any person who might theri be in possession) of the
price which had-been paid for the purchase thereof
since confiscation." But if the property had not been
soldi even they were not to pay for their estates, .althoug4h the state might'have discovered,-srized and possessed them. This was the slpirit of reconciliatio4
which was entertained between the parties at that time,'
and ought not to be forgotten in construing the treaty.
These, however, were cases where the. state had ac-.
tually possessed themselves of the property, and bad
used or disposed of it. In those cases the interpositi6n of the state was necessary to give effect to the in,
tention of that part of'"the treaty. The .5th.section,
therefore, relates entirely to confiscations actually made
and finished;, and where the state sovereignties had
possessed, and used, oridisposed of the property. But
the cases of inchoate confiscation, where the possession
had not been devested, where the party still enjpyed
th~e property., but where the states would, onder the

29 2
SMITH

Y.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

existing laws, have a right to seize and possess them.
selves of the property, and where some act still remained to be performed in order to completely
vest the title and possession- in the state, such cases
were reserQed for the subject of the 6th article;wbich
stipulates '*"that there shall be no future confiscatiuns
made; nor any prosecutions commenced against any
person or persons for or by reason of the part which
he or they may have taken in the present war; and
that no person shall on ihat acc6unt suffer any future loss or damage, either in his person, liberty, or
property; and that those who may be in confinement
on ,such charges at the time of the ratification of the
treaty in America, shall be immediately set at liberty,
and the lirosecutions so commenced be discontinued."
The cases in the 5th article required some act to be
clone by the states to restore the property, because the
party was out of possession; but' where the party
was already in the possession and enjoyment of the
property, no act of the states was necessary. It was
compettt for the treaty to provide for the case; and
to stipulate, as the 6th article does in tffect, that the
party shall not be put in a worse situation than he then
was in, either as to his person, his liberty, or his propt rty. The treaty did not consider property as confiscated, if any fut ther act was necessary to give the
state a complete legl title.
To ascertain the true construction of the 6th article
of the treatv, -it is necessary to fix the nieaning of the
term co,,iscation.
1. What is confiscation?
2. On what principles does the right of confistation
depend? .
1. To conflscate, is to transfer property -fromprivate
to public ust. But the public cannot hav. the use of
property not known to exist. 'I he state of laryl~nd
had not the use of this propertv betbre it was discovered in 1801. It was not before that time transferred
fron private to public use, and, consequently, was not
confiscated.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

.29S

2. The fight to confiscate the property of an enemy
8
during war is derived from a state of war, and" is* MARILA"
cMled on e of the rights of. war. The right originates ' d
,".
in the principle of seifpre.sdrvation. It is a means of we'keningthe enemy, and of strengthening ourselves.
"
3 Dallt,.., !27. Vat. lib. 3., c. 8. 138. p.519. -ib.
3. c. 9. § 161. P.-Z41..

The right to cbnfiscatd ceases. with the principle
upon which' it is founded. In time of peace we ard, "
in no danger, and therefore s, it preservation will not
then justify confiscation.' We have'no enemy'to disa'"ahlei and therefore no right to str nghen oitrselves atthe 'expense -'of another, although. he had been. an
6nemy.
But we ire told that the state id not'now, cojfi'icating
the property of him, who was- our enemy. That was
done during the war. We are noLnow deprivinghim of
the 'possession, and .excluding him from the use of the
land.. All this was done during the war. And this i.
said in the same breath which .admits.0bat. the party
has rem•inedin the possession, use and enjo mnt
of -the laod until this. moment, and that the property
was not discoered 'to have been the .Property of
an enemy, until twenty'years after the end'of th6 wat.
The right to confiscate the goods of an enemy is merely the belsigerent 'right of capture. If the property be
Dot, taken durifig the war, it can never be seizeo afterwaros. This property,"' while it remained undiscovered, could neither weaken our enemy, nor.strengtheii.
ourselves.

"

It would be difficult to establish the position by
redson, or by the law of nations, that you can ever be'
placed in a situation where, although it be unlawful to
pas4 an act declarng you will seize ,aiid "onfiscate..
enemits' property, yet that you ifi'ar because you de.
clared you 'had seized. it wheri inffact otU had not
deprived him of the possession and use of it'. As to
him the effect is the same; and it is equally a just
cause of hostility, wheither in fact Noti take fron hiim
what he in fact held, without a p eyious declaration

SUPREME COURT U. S.

.294
.SUIT1
MARYLAND.

of your intention to do so, or first make the declaras
tiOd, and then do it. In order to evade thepositive
of the treaty, you set up a mere legal
fiction in opposition to the truth of the case, and in
violation of the spirit as well as the letter of a solemn
-national compact.

Sprohibition

This construction. deprives the words of all meaning and effect. It was' absurd to make provisions
against future confiscations, it every thing was already
confiscated. No construction of a treaty is to be admitted which leads to an absurdity, or renders the
treaty null and without effect. VPattel, 380, 381, 382.
It is contended that the first provision in the 6th
article can never apply to Maryland, because there the
confications were complete whether the property were
discovered or not, and whether the state by its agenfs
had taken the possession or not; the law having vested
the title and posseswion. Let it be conceded that the
law, of itself, had all these effects, yet the treaty, if
,fairly construed, annulled the future operations of the
law, and prevented- the state or its assigns, from making the confiscation more complete either by taking
actudl possession, or compelling the trustees to convey
the legal estate,
We contend that the provision that no future confiscations shall be made, protects all property in fact
held by British. or American subjects at the time of
the treatr, ind prevents the laws of confiscation from
having the least operation in respect to such property;
or at any rate prevents the courts of justice from depriving.the holder of the possessionr, and from forcing,
his trustee to convey, and from doing any other act
to carry into effect an incomplete confiscation. Acts
done under a law during its e.istence cannot be affected by the repeal of the law.

But if a law atithorizes

an act to be done, but before the act be done, the law
berepealed, thete is no authority to do the act. So if
the act be done in part, and b6 incomplete at the time
'of-th'e repeal; nothing further can .be done. The
treaty was a 'repeal of- all the cinfiacation 'law
so,
a

FEBRUARY, 1810.

295

far as to suspend their confiscating effects ; and no
court of judicature could carry them into execultion.

SMI'a
MAPVLAND.

The 'stipulation " that there should be no future
confiscations made." was not intended to preveint
the passing of future LAWS of confiscation.

There

could be no right to pass such laws during peace..
Such laws would have been a most flagrant violation
of the law of nations; and would have 'been.a good'
cause of war.If it be said that the stipulation was -intended to
apply onh" to those states where the confiscation laws
vwere incomplctp, we answer, that the cohfiscation was
incomplete even in the case now before the court.
Th6 circumstance of an application to a cotirt of
chancery to complete *the title of the state, is- conclusife evidence that the title, was not complete ; and, if
the tide was not completely in the state, the confiscation
vas not complete.
In those states where an inquest of dffice was. necessary to.gain a .seisin by the state., such a prodeecding
cbuld ndt be had after the treaty ; this point has been
admitted by all the states. No soli4 reason can be
givcn why thetreaty should.not equally bar a procetding in equity, to obtain the. samt object. '
No reasor. can be given why due of the staters more
than an6ther should be enab~ed to derive' a- continuing
revenue from the discoVery of property after tile peace,
which had belonged to an enemy during the war.
If it be said that the act -of confiscation wested- the
equitable title in the state, and that 'that equitable title is
tranuferred to the complainants, Carroll and Niaccubbin,
and that as in equity, what ought to .have been done
is presunmed to have been doni, and thrrefore a coilvevance is to' be made now as'if it had been made then;'
We admit that this is true in ordifiary cases of
equity ; but this is not an ordinary case of equity;
there is,'no equity in compelling a forfeiture accruing

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SWT1n
MARY.AND

jure bel'i.

It is a" mere exercise of superior--power,
a case of the strictest law. It is not thd
most
at
or

of a court of -quity to entorce-penalties and
forfeitures, (es,)ecially those groW'rng out of a state of
war,) but to rtlieve against them. No man will contend that a British subject was bound in law, conscience.
or nrorality, to niake a disclosure of his prupert, to
his enemy, 'for the purpose of being deprived of it.
in confiscaThe same right of war which justified ".
ting the property of British subjccts, justified them in
concealing it.

Sprovince

The genteral -purview of the ,6th article of the-treaty
shows that the iptention of the contracting parties was,
tha, things should re'main as they then were; no future
conifiscations were to be 'made; that is, no property wap
to br transftrred'-rom private to public use; no person
then in possession was to be'turned out on account of
the part he took in tl~e war; no prosecution was to be
'commenced; no pt rson was to suffi-r-any futuie loss or

damage, either in his person, liberty -or property, on
that account. To deprive a uian of his property, to
turn him out ol a possession which he had enjoved
until that moment, to deprive him of his daily bread,
is to make him suffer a loss and damajge on accoint of.
the part -he took in the war, and is thereforq a'direct
violation of the treaty.
The right of confiscatiof is in substance the same
as the right of capture;, it depends upon the same prin4iple, the right of sell preservation. If the property he
becomes the property of the
takenflagrante belIo, itcaptor. But if it be not taken during the war, he
:,cannot .afterwdrds claim and take it because he might
have taken itduring the-war, ithe. hadknown where it
was.- He canfiot make it his own by a'mere declara,tion that it is his.- The right.to take can only be exercised during the war. Itthere' be only a declaration
during the wal, it does not change the property. At the
cessation of hostilities, the right 'of capture ceases,
The state of Maryland cannot say, I am not now
-I only take my own; and it is
taking your prop'ertr.
xny own,becaude I declared it to-be so during the war.

-

FEBRUARY, 1810.

'297

941TE
With much more truth might Great Britain, when we
,charge heri with a violation, of the 7th article of the MAR', ''.
treaty, by carrying away the negroes, and other pro- •
perty of Amearans, say, I did not take away the pro.
perty of the Americans; I only took my own. It wad
mine, not by a mere declarationthAt it was mine, but
by an actual seizure of it during the war, and according to the rights of war.

But this construction of the 7th article is not admig.
sible, because it would defeat the whole object and
intent of that article' So we say the construction
given by the courts of Maryland. to the term "conf/4.
cations," in the 6th article, is not admissible, because it
defeats the whoje objdct and intent of that provision.
The words of the act of October, 1780, c. '45.
entitled " An act to sdize, confiscate and appropri.
ate all British- property within this state," are these;
" Be it enacted," &c. " that all property within
this state, debts only excepted, belonging to British
subjects, shallbe seized, and is hereby confiscated to
the use of the state."
By the actof the same session, c. 49. entitled " An act
to appoint commissionxers to preserve confiscated British
property," it is enacted, "William Paca, Uriah Forest,
and Clement Hollyday, esquires, or any two ot them,
shall be, and are hereby appointed commissiofiers for
the purpose of preserving all British property -itzed
and confiscated by the act of- the present session to
seize, confiscate, and appropriate, -all Briti Ch property
within this state ; and that the said co imissioners
shall be. and are hereby declared to be ir the fulland.
acttual seisin and. possesgion of all British property,
seized and confiscated b the said act, %vithout any
And the
office found, entry, or other act to be don.
said commissioners shall, and-may, as soon as may be,
appoint proper persons, in all cases that tnw y may think
necessary5- to enter into, and- take possession of any
?art of the said property, and to preserve und keep, the
.Vnl. VP~

l-1

298

•

SUPREME COURT U. S.

SMITH

same from waste and destruction, or to occupy and

V.

employ the same for the benefit of the publid, and-to
inventory the -same, or any other of the said prqperty
which the said commissione's may not think proper
or necessary to put into the keeping of any person
as aforesaid; and the said commissioners shall return
to the NEXT general assembly a list or account of all
such British property by them discovered, to -whomthe
same belonged, the" persons, if any, to whose keeping
they com'mitted the same, and the sums to which the
same shall be valued in the next valuation of property;
and the inventory aforesaid shall also bd returned to
the general assembly, with the -list or account aforesaid; but in case any person shall be in possession of any
of the said property, and claim the same, such property
shall not be taken out of his possession, if he gives
good and sufficient security, in double the value thereof,
thai the same, if moveable, shall be produced when
called for'by the commissioners; not any way damaged,
or injured, or, if real, that no waste or destruction shall
be zommitted thereon, but that the same shall be kept
and preserved in as good order and repair as the same
may then be in,.until the title thereto shall be determined."

-

.

By the 4th section of the sdme act it is enacted,
"that the said 'commissioners are also hereby declared
to be in the full and actual seisin and possession of
all property within this state which belonged to'any
person outlaryed.for treasoti; and may appoint proper
persons to take care of and preserve the same from
waste or destruction, and inventory and return thesame to the general assembly at the next sessi6i, in the
same manner as if the same was 'confiscated British
property, to the end that proper measures may be taken
for the disposition thereof in the manner most advantageous for the public, and the purpose to which th;
same is appropriated."
These actA clearly contemplate an actual seizure of
the property during the existence of the war. The
title of the first act is, "to seize, confiscate, and appropriate ;" and the enacting clause declares, that the pro-

FEBRUARY, 18lo.-

perty "shall be seized." The second act declares the
commissioners to be in the full and actual svisin and
possession of.all British property seized and conliscitted
by the former act. It also authorizt s ihe commissioners to appoint other persons to enter and t-ake p ,ssession. It directs an account of the property discovered
to be returned to the next general assembly, and it pro.
vides that if the party in possession claim title, he
shall not he turned out of possession, until 'the question
of title be decided.
The act of the same session, c. 51. section 6. speaks
of certain manors and land!, "which are seized and
confiscated as British property, in consequence of the
said act." And the preamble of the 8th section of the
act of November, 1802, c. 100. sect. 8. under which
Carroll and Maccubbin claim a right to apply to a court
of equity .in
the name of the state, speaks of the discoverers of property liable to confiscation, in the following terms: " Whereas many persons have made
discoveries of British property, confiscated, propertyi
or property liable to confiscation, to the governor and
council, the late intendant and late agents of the state,
and have made .application to'ptrchase the same upon
the terms held out by law to the discoverers; and
whereas there is no person invested with authority to
estimate the value, or fix a reasonable price for the said
property,-and to compound with the person or persons
making such discovery, or with the person or. persons
applying to purchase the same; Be it enacted. that the'
governor and council be and they are hereby empowered to compound with all persons who have heretofore made discovery of British property, confisca.
ted property, or property liable to confisc tion, either
to the governor and council, the late interidant, or any
of the state agents, and to allow not exceeding one
third of the value.of such property to aoiy person or
persons having made such discovery, and who shall
make application to the governor and council on or before the fiist day of May next, to combund for and
purchase the same, and the said governor and council
are hereby authorized to dispose of sucti property to
such applicants, .and take bonds, with good and suffi-

S-xiM

.AR;AND

'300
SMITH

V.

MAP..LA

SUPREME COURT U. S.-

dent security, to be approved df by the treasurer of the
western shore, for the purchase-money, bearing interest

. payable to the state at the periods that may be agreed
1
on. ,

The 9th .section provides, that if the discoverer
"shall not make known to the governor and council
the title of the state to the property aforesaid" before
the 1st of May, then next, &c. the governor and council are to sell and dispose of the "state's right" to the
property, &c. And by the lOth section it is enacted,
" that it shall and may be lawtul for any person or persons purchasing as aforesaid any confiscated British
property under the authority of this act, to prosecute
any suit or suits, either in law or equity, in the- name of
the siate, for the recovery of said property for their
use: provided, that the said state shall not be liable to
pay any costs incurred in prosecution of said suits ;"
" and provided also, that in all such sales so to be made
by the governor and council, it shall be made known,
and shall be a condition thereof, that they only sell the
right of the state thereto, and that the state doth not
guaranty the title to the same, or any part thereof, but
that the purchase must be in all respects at the risk of
the purchaser."
This act is clearly a legislative construction of the
former acts respecting confiscation, and it takes a distinction between British property, and coijiscatedproperty, -and property liable to confiscation; it supposes
the existence of British property not confiscated;
which could be no other than property which was once
liable to confiscation, but which had never been actually
discovered and seized.
But this land was, at the time of the British treaty
of 1794, holden by a British subject, through the medium of a trustee, so that it is a case within the bene-.
fut of the 9th article of that treaty.
As to the question of jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States, the real question in the case is, whether the property was, before, the treaty of peace,

FEBRUARY, 1810.

301

actually confiscated, zoithin the meaning of that treaty.

Suxm

It is a question upon the construction of the treaty

MARyLAD.

only, and the judgment 'below has been against the
right claimed' under that treaty, and is therefore clearly
within the letter of the 25th section of the judiciary
act of 1789.
.Ridgeley, contra.
The act of Maryland, of October," 1780, c. 45. actually and absolutely confiscates the property, whether
found or not. And the act of the same session, c. 49.
declares the .tommissioners to be in the actual seisin
and. possession of the property, "without any offic
found, entry, or other act to be done."
The courts of the United States have not jurisdiction in the case, because the only question is whether,
by the laws of Maryland, the pr: )erty was completely
confiscated before the treaty of peace. If it was, the
treaty does not apply ; if it was not, the treaty protects it. The laws of Maryland are to be construed
by this court as they are construed in Maryland; and
the judgment-in this very suit is conclusive evidence
of the construction given to their laws by the courts of

that state.
The acts of confiscation make no distinction betweenl
legal and equitable esiates,
Harper,on the same side.
This case presents two questions. The first, upon
the jurisdiction; the second, upon the construction of
the act of Maryland.

-

1. This is not a case depending upon the construction of the treaties, but upon the laws of Maryland.
If by those laws the property was not confiscated be.fore the treaty of peace, we admit that it cannot now
be confiscated. If it was confiscated, the treaty does
not apply. The general understanding in Maryland,
and the uniform decisions of their courts have been,

502
Ssurn
iLY

hA n.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

that the, act of assembly completely confiscated all Bri-

tish property within that state, without office founl, or

entry, or seizure; so that at the peace there'could not
be any future confiscations, because, no British subject
could then hold lands in Maryland. This is an answer
to both treaties. The courts of Maryland are the exclusive ,judges of the, construction of the laws of that
state.
If this court dan take -cognisance 6f the cause, the
only question which-they can decide is that which arises upon the construction of the treaty. The question
of construction of the acts of Maryland is not open
to this court.
5ones, in reply.
The right of Mrs. Ottey was not of shch a nature
as to be within the description of the act of assembly;
and as it was a highly rigorous and pefial law, ;rating
a forfeiturie of lands, it ought to be strictl construed.
To include the case 'of a cestui que tru't would require
a special description. The only term used in the act
is "property," which, in its gvenerat and most obvious
sign ification, means the legal title and possession of the
thing itself. By the common law, no trust estate or
use was forfeilable for treason; and an alien might.
hold and enjoy the profits of land through the medium
bf a trustee. 4 Coin. Dig. 231. 2 Coke, 513. 2 i' t.
"18, 19. 21. And this principle respecting forfeitures
applies to confiscations. 3 Inst. 227.
By the act of Maryland itself, no property was confiscated until it wAs first seized, and it could not be seized until it was found. But the question is not whether it was a confiscation of the kind contemplated by
the act of Mlar land, but whether it was a confiscation
of the kind contemplated by the treaty. Tretie.s, especially those which putan end to the miseries of war,
ought to be construed with liberality, and according to
the spirit of the contract, and the intention of the parties. The .confiscation contemplated by the acts of
Maryland, if the construction be correct which ha

FEBRUARY, 1810.

"303

suiTH
been given to them by-their coturts, was not an actual
confiscation de facto, but a 66nfiscation in -contempla- .MARYL.AND.
v.
tion of law.' So tar as it could be supposed to apply ,
to property tot dissovered nor seized; "it"was a mere
fiction of law. - The contracting, parties to, the treaty
could, only have intended'actual conftscatio'ns 'de facto;
cases where in truth the property hail already been seized and converted to public use. Tac spirit of the
treaty is clearly discovered, from the whole teior of the
instrument, to be, that nothing which was not already
actually converted to the public use should be taken
from the individual on account of -the part taken in the
war. A iutuee seizure of the property holden by the
individual; a future conversion of it to public use, was
therefore a future confiscation within the letter aid the
spirit of the pr6hibition contained in the 6th article of
the treaty. The negotiators of .that treaty must be
presumed to have been perfectly acquainted with. the
laws of England relating to treason; and forfeitures of
every kind. It was know n that even by the high prerogativ.e of the crown, the king gained no title until
actualseizure. The writ of seizure was a necessary
consequence of an office found. 2 Inst. 206, 207.
572. 689. Until entry or "seizure -there was 6nly a'
possibility of an estate which was to be gained by entry. "The seizure or entry is the commencement of
the title. Co. Litt. 118. a. 12 3fad. 92. Roberts v.
Witberhead. This seems also to have been the opinion
of the legislature of Maryland, when they declared
that the property should be seized and confiscated; and,
,when they passed the subsequent acts of 1797, C. 119.
and 1802, c. Iou.

The right of Mrs. Ottey is protected by the clauses
of the 6th article of the treaty, of peace, prohibiting
future confiscations 'and future loss on account of the
part taken in the war; and by the 9th article of the
treaty of 1794, in fhvour of those who then held lands
in-the United Statcs. Mrs. Otter then held the laud-,
ifnot at law, yet she did in equity; and as this is a
suit in equity, the court will consider her as within the
equity of the treay.

304~

-SUPREME COURT U. S.

March 16.

SUXT,,
V.
MARYLAND.

fSloNGTO
courtas
court, as follows:

J.0 delivered the opinion of the

This cause comes before the court upon a writ of
error to the court of appeals of the state of Maryland;
and the first .question is, has the supreme court of the
United States appellate jurisdiction in. a case like the
present? It is contended, by the defendants in error,
that the question involved in the cause turns excluBively.upon the construction of the confiscation laws of
the state of Maryland, passed prior to the treaty of
peace, and that no question, relative to the construction
of that treaty, did or could occur. That the only
point in dispute was, whether the confiscation of the
lands in controversy was complete, or not, by the mere
operation of those laws, without any further act to be
done. If the former, it was admitted, on the one side,
that the right of Ann O'Etey, *the' British subject, was
not saved or protected by the treaty; if the latter,
then it was agreed, on the other, that it was protected,
and that no proceedings subsequent to the treaty, in
order to perfect the confiscation, could be supported.
This argument proves nothing more than that the
whole di culty in this case depends upon that part of
it which involves the construction of certain . state laws,
and that the operation and effect of the treaty, which
eonstitutes the residue of the case, is obvious so soon
as that construction is settled. But still the question recurs, is this a case where the construction of any clause
in a treaty was drawn in question in the state court,
tihd where the decision was against the title set up
under such treaty? The only title asserted by the
defendants in error, to the land in dispute, is founded
upon' an alleged confiscation of them by -the 'state of
Maryland, and a- conveyancb to them 0f the, right
thus acquired by the state. The title set up by the
The Chief Justice did not sit in this cause. Tie judges present
werp Washington, 3o1nsou,Livitkgston and Todd.

FEBRUARY, 181o.

-305

SMV1m
plaintiffs in error, for Ann Ottey, and the only one
'which could 'ossibly resist that claimed by the gran- MARYLA.M
9
tees of the Stae, is under the treaty 5f peace - the 6th
article of whicl protects her rights, provided the confiscation, by tht laws of the state, was not complete
prior to the treay. The point to be, decidedwas and is,
whether this be Lcase of future c6nfiscation, withiil the
meaning of the 6t1 article of that treaty ; and, in orderto
arrive at a correctresult in the decision of that point,
it became necessay, in the state court, and will be
necessary in this, t) inquire whether the confiscation,
declared by the stte laws, was final and complete, at
the time the treaty vas made,,or not? The construction of those lawsthen, is only a step in the cause
leading to the conftriction and meaning of this article
of the *treaty; and it is perfectly immaterial to the
point of jurisdictionthait the first part of. the way is
the most difficult to .mrplore.. Although the defendant's counsel admit, aid' the supreme court of the statemay, in this particulai case, have decided, that, where
the confiscation is nt complete before the treaty,
the estate attempted ti be confiscated is protected by
the treaty, still, if, according to the true construction
.of the state laws, this court should be of' opilion
that the acts of confiscation left something to be done
necessary to the perfection of the title claimed under
them, which was not done at.the'time the treaty was
made, we must say diat, in this case, the construction
of the treaty was drawn.in question, and that the de.
cision of the state court was against the right set up,
under, the treaty, by one of the parties.
This leads to the consideration of the merits of the
caude, which depend upon the question before stated,
viz. whether the confiscation of the lands in question
waq so-far complete y the laws referred to, that the
title and estate of Ann Ottey wasdevested.out of her
and vested in the state, prior to the treaty of peace?
This must depend -upon the true construction of the
acts passer in the year 1780, chapters 45. and 49..as
it is not pretended that any proceedings were instituted in the nture of an office, to complete the forfeiture
Voi. VL

Qq

306
s~tT11
MARYLAUO.

SUPREME GOURT U. G.

of these lands, upon the ground of alienage or otherwise.

The first law declares generally that " all property
within this state, belonging to British subjects, debts
only excepted, shall be seized, and is hereby confiscated to the use of this state." Anticipating, as it
would seem, that .questions might arise, after peace,
in respect to lands not proceeded against according to
.the rules of the. common law, the legislature, in the
same session, passed a second law, appointing certain
commissioners, by name, to preserve all British property seized and confiscated by the former law, and
declaring the said commissioners to be in the full and
actual seisin and possession of all British property
seized and confiscated by. the said act, without any office
found, entry, or other act to be done, with power
to the said commissioners, to appoint fit persons to
enter and take possession of said property, for the
purpose of its preservation.
It would seem "dil cult to draught a law more completely operative to devest the whole estate of the former
owner) and to, vest it in the state. ,.The arguments
against giving to these laws such an effect are, that
the expressions used in these laws do not import a
confiscation of merely equitable estates; .and that- no
estates were intended to be confiscated, but' such. as
were discovered and seized into the hands of the stare,
prior to thetreaty.
It is true that the word property, used in b6th laws,
means the thing itself, intended to be affected by them,
whether it were land or personal property ; but then
it is equally clear that the thing itself, whatever it
might be,- ceased, by the operation of these laws, tobelong to the British subject, and became vested in
the commissioners, for..the, use of the state.- The
cestui 'que trust, though not in possession of the property, was, nevertheless, the real owtier of iti
and, if
the property or thing itself had come into -the actual
possession of- the-conimissioners, who would have
held it to the use of the state, it would seem difficult
to maintain the position, that a scintilla of interest

FEBRUARY, 181o

307

or estate remained, for an instant afterwards, in the
former owner.

StT,,
V.
MARYLANS

But no act of the commissioners was necessary in
order to obtain sdisin in the land, to support the use
-dhus transferred from Ann Ottey to the state. No
seizure was necessary. The second law considers
that all property belonging to British subjects was,
by the mere operation of the first law, seized and
confiscated; and declares that the commissioners were
then in the full and actual seisin and possession of the
property,, so seized and confiscated by the first law,
though no entry or other act had or should be made
or done.
Being thus in. the actual seisin, under the second
law, which-sdisin had been declared, by the first law,
to enure to the use of the state, it is perfectly immaterial at what time the right of. the state to the
lands. now in.controversy, thus completed prior to
he treaty, was discovered, or at what timv actual
seisin and possejssion was obtined. From the time
ihat the second- la w came into operation, the possession of the trustees of Ann Ottey either ceasea to be
legalO, or it was to be considered as the possession of
the commissioners to the new use which had been declared by law. The present suit is between persons clai'ming under the-state%and others who either held the lands
wrongfully, or for the use of tie state, and it is, in no
respect, necessary to the perfection of the change of
the property produced by the laws of confiscaion.
judgment affirmed, with costs.

DUTROUSSEAU AND OTHERS v.THE UNITED
STATES.

ERROR to the district court of the United States, The appellate
court
pee
for the'district of Orleans.
United
T abthe .are
This was a suit breua.ht by the United States against states, .gi-

