SUPREME COURT U. S.
-SiL
.

1Pxits

MAV's

's

Ex',Rs.

-

" It appearing that the merits of this cause had
been finally decided in this court, and that its mandate

required only the execution of its decree, it is the
opinion of this'court thikt the circuit court is bound to
carry that decree into execution, although the jurisdiction of that court be not alleged i'n the pleadings."

THE CHESAPEAKE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. STARK.

agent
w'hoIhe
niake, in-

-ERROR to the circuit court of the district of 'Ma-

urance tor hiii

ryland, in an action of covenant upon a policy of insu-

rircip., tohas
atthlriky
3ut a

rance upon goods on board the ship Minerva, from

withl- Philadelphda to Laguira, and back to Philadelphia.

5ando"

fhirnal

The cause was tried upon the issue of ?ion infregit

uter of attrTil, inlfrm,teed
ltv'ofa

conv'otionem, and the jury found a special verdict,

f cehiul Isstating the tollowing facts:
11',l,(Iu r hili On the th of March4 1807, Christian Dannenberg,
)e unexcep- as agent of -the plaintiff; who was a citizen of Pcnnsyl|onable,

the vania, shipped for Laguira, on account, and at the sole

mmiiiitilyit, risk, of the plaintiff, sundry goods, being American
,lie u
;ler,
'i- propert',.and regularly documented assuch, to the valei.t is lnt es. lue of 8,700 dollars and upwards,- on board the ship
elitial to the Minerva, and consigned tl}emn'to William Parker, su-"
-ight of eathter
lt, I . hrpercargo on board.* On the 12th of March she sailed
.fthu.alha.don- with the goods fronbt Philadelphia for, Laguira.
unlt be, legal,
t

pits

the

On the 21st of March, Charles G. Boerstler,for the
IndIerwriCI,*
tiii plaintiff, effected an insurance with the Chesapeake Ihbt,
suoicd,

mitisturance Company, who are citizeiss of the state of

ie ag,.nt of M'VIaryland, upon the goods, to the anbunt of 8,W0 dol
:he:4St5i ben
t(L' -alars, by the policv mentioned in the .declaratioi, ,which
:

ft-ttO
thc was executed under the common seal of the company.
un, I-%%lees
I
!'1A bllit
On the outward voyage she was'captured by a British
di't isd retive

t(1.,h

..dwr privateer and carried into Curragoa.

iCollro.
thy
at ,udait.

April,

1B.0T,

On the-29th of

thel13th
the cmntain made a protest. OnOnthelhtth

FEBRUARY, 18'1o.

2.69

of June, 1807. the ship and goods being still in pos- CHES.Ix. Co.
*A~nx.
session of the captors at Curragoa, and there detained
by, them, tht said Charles G. Boeistler, "-for the _o, -

pl.,ntif'

abandorted to the Chesapeake Insurance

for the
Company, the goods shipped by D:,nnenbt rg
plaintiff, by a letter to the presidentt and directors

ot the Chesapeake Insurance• Company, .athe defendants, in the words and figures following:

Baltimore, June 13, 1807.
"'4

LuentetasinreaVtreasonable time o a-

baudofments
queostioni cornotffet
t.unt'ed
wlhielh
atid :law,
must biw |ta

by a jury ounder theof direthe

Stiotf

apresident and Directors of the )
Chesapeake Insurance Company,

court.

"Gentlemen,
-

"Having this morning received a letter from Mr. G.

Dannenberg, of Philiddlphia, the agent for Mr. John
Phlip Stark, of Haiover, ordering m& to abandon the
goods shipped by him, for Mt. Stark's account, on
board the American ship Minerva, Captain Newcomb,
carried int,., and detained at Curr iioa, on her voyage
from Philadelphia to Laguira, whereby the object of
the expedition is totally frustrated and destroyed; I
herewith abandon to you the whole of Mr. Sark's
interest in the cargo of the Minerva, which you have.
insured in your office.
-I have the hono.ur to be, getitlemen, your most
"obedient se rvant,
G. Boerstler."
harles
i"
*
Which abandonment the defendants then refused to

accept.

,

-

W. Parker, the upercargo, addresed a memorial to
the governor of Curi-,'a', on the 19th of June, 1810,
inwhich he complains of tlhe detention as being of the
most ruinous consequences to the owners.
On the 25th of July, i807,"thevessel and cargo being stilf detained at CurraCoa, in the. possession of the
captors, Parker entered into an-agreement" with I.-F.
Burke, the owner of the privater, bv which . certais

270

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ams.. co. partof the goods, should be appraised and the price
Y'
paid by Parker, to be repaid by Burke in case the goods
STARX.
should not be adjudged good prize; and that a certain
other part should be kept by Burke, upon his engaging
tQ pay the value thereof in the like case. In consequence of which agreement the vessel was liberated,
and proceeded to Laguira, whcre'the goods were -sold,
and produced about 5,900 dollars.
Parker employed an agent to attend the trial at
Tortola, ahd to claim the goods for the plaintiff; but a
trial was never had, nor any proceedings instituted for
dte purpose of obtaining an adjudication,
On the 22d of August, 1807, Darnenberg, as agent
of: the plaintiff, executed a deed to the Chesapeake In.
surance Company, trarisferring to them all his right
and title to the goods,'as attorney of the plaintiff,
which deed they refused to receive.
Winder and Alartin, for the plaintiffs in error, contended,
1. That the contract by Parher -with Burke was
either the personal contract of Parker, or the contract
of Stark; and was the cause of the loss.
2. That there was no sufficientabandonment. Dan.
nenberg was the agent of the plaintiff to make the
shipmefit, but he had no power to abandon, nor to
trans er to the defendants the rights of the plaintiff.
Much less.cotild Boerstler, the. friend of I annenberg.
If the vessel and cargo had returned after the abandonment, there was nothing to prevent Stark from
clairping. The deed of cession ought to have been
under the plaintiff's seal, or a power of attorney, under
seal, should be produced.
3. The abandonment was not in due time.
Harper,contra.
If the authority of Danntnberg to abandon does not
3.

FEBRUARY, 18o.

2.71

•appear in the special verdict, nor the time -'%hen he C11Es. I. Co.
received 'hotice" of the loss, this cotirt will award a re- sTAK.
nire facias de. novo,'because the jury have "found the
evidence of the authority and time, but not the- act of
authority, ior the reasonableness of the time.
In a mercantile irnsacti6n no instturitent under
seal is necessary. "The letter is found which states thefact of abandonment, and the jury find the agency of
Dannenberg. The letter states the authority of Bot rstler, and the jury have found his authority.' This
throws the burden of proof on the othier side. The.
deed of cession from Dannenberg states that he acts
for Stark, and as his attoiney. The jury find that it
was done.by Dannenberg for Stark. It was not necessary that the deed should have been executed in the
name of Stark. It is as well if- it bie signed by Dan.
nenberg, as his agent or attorney.
After th%abandonment Parker became the agent of
the underwi':ers, who were then the owners. It is a
general prinr ple that all acts done bona fide for the
best interest d " all concerned, are the acts of the underwriters, aftUr a rightful abandonment. The assured
cannot then revoke ; nor can the underwriters throw
back the property, without the conient.of the assured.
.Martin, in reply.
The question is, whether the assured cah elect by
attorney to abandon. Parker could not be -considered
as th, -agent of the underwriters, in* doing an act
which could-not lpenefit them.
The plea 6f non'infregit was decided, before the statute of jeofailM, to be an ihy'rnial,but not an immaterial
plea. 1 Si. .83. 1 Lev. 290. It would have been
bad upon special demurrer, but it is aided by the verdict. No other form of pleading has ever been used
in Marytind, upon a sealed policy.

72

SUPREME COURT U. S.
.Mac/z 14o

IZE1.IN Co. V.

STA ii

i .,~'

MARSIRALL,

Chq.. J. delivered the opinion of the

court as lollows:
On the principal question in this case the court can
entertain no doubt. On the capture of theMinerva,
the right to 4bandon was complete, and-this right was
exercised daring her detentionThe objections to the form of the abandonment are
not 'deetred substantial. The agent who made the
insurance might certainly be crt dited, and, in transactions'of this kind, always is credited, when he declares
that, by the order of his principal" he abandons to the
underivriters. In this case, the jury find that the
abandonment was made for the plaintiff; and this finding establishes that fact.
The informality of the deed of cession is th'ought
unimportant, because, if the abandobment was unexceptionable, the property vested immediately, in the
uvderwriters, and the deed was not essential to ,he
right of either party. Had it been demanded andli:.
f'sed, that circumstance might have altered the law of
the case.
If the abandonment was legal, it put the under4riters completely in the place of the assured, and Parker
became their agent. When.he contracts on behalf of
the owners of the goods, he.'contracts on .behalf of
the underwriters, who have " ecomne owners, not on
behalf of Stark, who has ceased to bt one.- His act
is no longtr the act of Stark, and is n,- to ho considered as an interference, on his part, which may affect
the abandonment. If any par.tic ar instructions had
been given on this subject, if any act of ownership
had been exerted by Stark himself, -such conduct
might be construed into a relinquishment of an abandonment which had not been accepted ; but as nothing
of the kind exists, the act of the. supercargo is to be
considered as the act of the persons interested, who.
ever they may be.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

.2 g

The only point which- presents any- difficulty, in cnEs. INCo,
the opinion of the court, is the objection foundedoi STAE.
the omission, in the verdict, to find that the abandonment was made in reasonable time.
The law is settled 'that an abandonment, to be
effectual, must be made in reasonable time ;,but what
time is reasonable is a question cornpounded of fact
and law, which h:s not yet been reduced to such certainty as to enable the court to pronounce up'on itwithout the aid of a jury. Certainly the delay may be
so great as to enable every man to declare, without
hesitation, that it is unreasonable, or the abandonment
may be so immediate, that all will admit it to have
been made in reasonable time : but there may be such
a imediuiM' between these extremes, as to render it
douBtful whether the delay has been reasonable or
otherwise. If it was a mere question of law which
the court might de-.ide,'then the law would determine,
to a day or an hour, on the time left for dtliberation,
after receiving notice of the loss. But the law has
not so determined, and it therefore remains a question
compounded of fact and law, which must be found by
a jury under the direction of the court.
In this cage the jury have found an abandonment,
but have not found whether it was made in-due time
or otherwise.' The fact is, therefore, found defectively ; and for that reason a venirefacias de nov, must be
awarded.
It may not be amiss to remark that the judicial
opinions which we generally find in the books, on
these subjects, are usually given by way of instruction
to the jury, or on a motion for a new trial, not on
special verdicts. The distinction between the cases
deserves consideratioR.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded, with
direction to award a venire facas de novo.
Vol. WII

M m

