SUPREME COURT U. S.

WuLsoIi,
EX

PAIVTZ.

No appeal or writ of error-will lie to an niiterlo-

cutory decree dissolving an injunction.

Writ of error dismissed with costs.

W4LSON, EX PARTE.

WILSON petitioned the court for a writ of habeas corpus, and a certzorar2 to bring up the record
dum does no, of a civil cause in which judgment' had been renup dered against him, upon which a ca. sa. had issued,
lie person
to bringcona
fined ,s the- by which be was taken and was now in confinement
prison bounds within the prisons bounds upon.a prison-bounds bond.
upon a ca. sa His petition stated that the marshal had demanded
issued i a civil
of the creditor the daily -allowance for the prisoner
suit.
agreeably to the act of congress, concerning insolvent debtors within the distrrct of Columbia, (Laws
U S. vol. 6. p. 301. ยง 15.), ghic1 the creditor had
refused to pay, in consequence of which the marshal
had no longer any authority to detain him.
Therit of

habeas
corpus
ad aidjicen

The act.of congress provides that the circuit court
of the district of Columbia shall, by a general order,
fix the daily allowance-for the support of prisoners
in execution for debt in, civil suits) and that ."no
person, taken in execution for debt or damages in
a civil suit, shall be detained in prison therefor unless
the creditor, his agent -or attorney, shall, after demand thereof by the marshal, pay, or give such security as he Ihay require, to pay, such daily aflowance, and the, prison flees.
The marshal refused to discharge the p etitioner,
and his counsel, B. f Lee, now moved for a habeas
corpus.

""

MARSHALL, Ch. J, after consultation with the
other judges, stated that the court was not satisfied

FEBRUARY, 181o.

53

that a habeas corpus is the proper remeay, m-a case
of arrest under a civil process. -

ONZALE
THORTOZ.

Habeas corpus, refused..

ONEALE v. THORNTON.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of The act oftis. .
Columbia, sittjng in-Washington, in an action -of ,en
assumpsit upon a promissory note, dated August 6th, authorized the
....
the city
of
1800, payable in nine months thereafter, and given Uof....
by- Oneale to William Thornton, surviving commas- Washington to.
sioner of the city, of Washington, for the purchase- resell lots fdr
denfaltofha
money of lots No. 1. and 2. in e square. No. io,.
in

in tt

.......
i

cty.

-"

firstpurc aser,
contemplates a
&Iighe resale

The defence set up by Oneale was, that there was nuly; and by
no consideration for the note,
as the that resale tby
supertntendant of -the city, -who (by virtue -of. the the act is exact of congress passed the lst 6f May, 1802,. entitled eted.s
By selling
"An act to abolish the board of commssioners.n the and convgyibg
to
-- . the
a thproperty
rd purchacity of Washingtoni and -for other- purposes,")
(voI. 6. p.- 126.) succeeded to all the-powersy-4dutes, ser, the com.
-inasmuch

and rights of the-late commissioners, whose -office nIsssoner

pre-

.was abolished by tfiat acti 'had- abandoned or re- selves from
scmded the contract of sale, by having sold and con- setting up the
veyed' the same lots to another-person in fee-simple. " healo
purchaser, by
this
af.

kanlg
The bill-of.excep'tions taken at the trial, stated, in ndefence,
substance, the following case.firmed

the
title
of the
thi'rd purcha-

The States of Virginia and Maryland, having,. in ser.
the year 1789, offered to the United States a cession
of territory ten miles square for the permanent seat
of government, the United States, by the act- of
congress of the 16th of yuly, 1790, (Vol. 1. -p.,132.)
entitled " An act for establishing the temporary and
permanent seat of the government of- the -United

States," acqepted the same, and authorized the pre-

