-UPREM COURT U. S.
192
.Y
-D Whether the service of such process would have made
B .
Hampson liable in case he had paid ovet the money after such service.' On these poipts the: court, has no
doubt. But the.case is imperfectly stated. It does
not appear that the plaintiff has sastiined any loss by
the neglect of. the officer to, serve the Process, and for
this reason
The judgment is affirmed.

KORN AND WISEMILLER v. THE MUTUAL

-ASURANCE SOCIETY. AGAINST FIRE ON
BUILDINGS OF THE STATE OF VIRGINIA.

rhe separ-

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.

Ii a from Vir- ]i

is, did not
ct
existing
bec.ftracts
Sen, indivl:
It ils. The iniu ance uo

hra,- sitting at -Alexidria.

This was a motion, in the court below, in the name
o the principal agent of the Mutual Assurance Society
for judgment against Korn &- Wisemiller for 116 dol -

c Wine upo lars," being the amount due from them for a half quota

exandrla did under a declaration for insurance made to the society"
h separation,
cease by with 6 per cent. interest
thereon from the 1st day of
.
al hbugh, the June, 1805"

:o npany could
an y
insure

bc uses in VirThe court below gave judgmept according to the
U02
tin. The oh. motioti, and the-defendants
brought their writ of'error.
.
ri ation ojf the,
in red to con-

-ibute,
does
cese

at

This society was incorporated .by the legislature of

ini"rr
zosequenceof
Virginia, by an act passed on the 22d of December,

hiif hisforfeiture
ovn in- 1794, entitled "An act for establishinga' Mutual Assu-'
i-ance by his rance Society against fire on buildings in this state."

Du n neglect.
All the mem
The principles
of the society are declared to be.
r
bees of the
en npany are "That the citizens of this state may insure their buildbou nd by the ,so
ho of the Ma. ings against "the losses and damages occasioned acciiority.
No dentally by fire; and that the insured pay the losses and

aenmber

can expenses, eas~h his sbare.accotding to the sum insured."

FEBRUARY, 'tio.
The act provides'that the iules and regulationk'which XoR-x
V.
should be concluded upon by a majdrity of the subsc i.
bers at the first meeting, should be bindj.'g dii all those . A
• ' their property
,
. in that
,, " society;
.
s r"
'and devest
e hknisel
who should insure
that a majority of the society might at *any,time alter :bfl his obli and amend therules and regulati'ns as they-shouldjudge ons as sitch
r
.necessary; That certain premiums should be agrees t
upon to.be pai..by the insured to.constitute a fund to the soci4. .
pay'losses. And that if that fund sh6uld not be suffi.
"cient, a " repartition" among the insured should be
made, and each should pay on demand of the cashier
his share according to the surd insured and th6 rate of
hhzard. It .also provides that the propefty insured
should be bound for the payment, and for that purpose
might be sold. That such quotas when :called for
-should be advertised, and when any: person should
neglect to pay his quota, his insuranceshould cease until
it should be paid. If the.proprrty should be sold, -the
purchaser-was to becom'e a subscriber-in lieu of the
vendor. The subscribers might be compelled to'pay
the premiums, on request of the cashier, with 6per
tint. interest to the day of payment.
By. a subsequent act, passed in Decemberi 1795, it
was enacted, "That the said subscribers, a miajority of
theth in person or by deputation bding present, or a
majority of the sum subscribed, when ahy meeting
shall be'held, being there represented, shall have- power
and authority to proceed and act in all matters andthihgs in the first redited act mentioned, in as full, absolute, and unlimited a manner as they.might or could.
'do if all and every of th. said subscribers were actually
present and ateending.at'any such meeting."
By an act" passed the 12th of January, 1799, it is
enacted, "That the said mutual ins.-rance .society
shall have full power to recover the whole, or any part
of stich premiums or quotas as are, or may hereafter"
become, due from any delinquent subsctiber or memher,*under his subscription or declaration for insucance
made to the said society, on motion of the cashier of
the society before the court of the county, or the court
of the district wherein such delinquent may reside, ten
Vd. VT.

Bb

4

SUPRtME, COURT'U. S.

days' notice of'such motion- being. previously given;
k-6*hN
A..S and -achl
Vu
court shall have full jurisdiction. to hear anddetenrTne such motion, and to,cause theirjudgment to
be enforced with costs by any legal executions ; saving
to any person, against whom a. motion shall be made,
the right of a trial by.jury, if he shall desire it."
By an, act passed, the 27th of January, 1803, itis
enacted, 1, That the said society may insure buildings
in the county of Alexandria, provided tongress shall
pass a law subjecting those who declare for iiisuraide.
,inthat society to the provisions and regulations of the
laws of Virginia, which are already, or may hereafter
be, passed concernipg the said society. The act. to
-commence and be in force as soon as ,congress shall'
pass a law subjecting the citizens of the county of Alexandria who shall hereafter subscribe for insurance in
the said sbciety, to the same mode- of recovery in the
,court of the county of Alexandria as is now allowed
and granted by the laws of this commonwealth against
.defaulting subscribers residing within this state."
On ihe 3d of March, 1803, congresg passed such an
actas was contemplated by the legislature of Virginia.
-

'On tie 29th of January, 1805, Virginia passed an
act, the preamble to, which recites, that it had been
represented on the part of tle society that such a change
in their constitution as would separate the interests of
the inhabitant' of the towns from the interests of the
inhabitantsof the country, is essential to the 66equafizdtion?' of the risks, and that the same had been agreed
upon at a general annual meeting of the society. It
therefore enacts, that the funds should bedivided between
the towns and the country, in pioportion to the capital
subscribed by the t6wns and country respectively, and,
that the town funds should be only liable for town losses-, and country funds for country losses. That during the
year 1805, all the valuations of houses insured should
be revised, and no loss paid but according to such revaluation subject to- a deduction 6f one fifth thereof;
"and where stch reva!uation shall cxbced4.he former'
valuation, an additionalpremium shall be paid."

FEBRUARY,

1810.

195

That h it shall be lawful for any member of this society
Xo."
-to withdiaw from the same, on giving six weeks' pre- M V. S
vious' notice, and upon paying all arrearage& due at~tbe
time-of withdraWing."
' That-all debts due.;or to become due, to the society
may be sued 'for, prosecuted, and recovered in.the
name of the society in the same 'manner, in the same
.cOurts,' and up9a the same principles, -as tiey niaV now
be sued for, &c. except that the name of "the 'aszier
need not be used. That the agents, &c. shall perlrm
the- duties required from agents by the 19th article of
the-rules and regtila'iofis now in force."
-.
-

By the 19th article of the rules and regulations of
the so=ieiy adopted and in force prior to the'29th of
January; 1805, the duties of an agent were 4 to act for
the' society agreeably to the constitution, to apply to-the
houseowners of their respective counties, explain the
plan to thepi, make out the- declarations of insurance,
procure the certificate of the majority of three respectable houseowners (of whom the county agent may be
one) of the valuation of the buildings, transmit the
declarations, 'properly executed, to the principal' agent,
and correspond*with him on what may be necessary to
be done."
The plaintiffs in error made their declaration for in-,
durance in the usual form' under seal, and thereby pro..
mised that they would "abide by, observe and adhere'
to the constitution, rules and regulations which wyere
already established, or might thereafter be established,
by, a majority of the assured present in persbn, or'by
representatives, or by a majority of the property insured, represented either by the persons themselves, or
their proxy, duly authorized, or their deputy, 'as esta.
blish-d by law, at any general meeting'to be' holden by
the assurance society, or which were, or thereafter might
be, established by'the president and directors of thd society"
In consequence of this' declaration, thd plain'tiffs in
error paid the original premium of inguranc 'and oh-

SUPREME- COURT U. S.
tained, a policy. The society demanded a half Tota I
6.that is to say, for the payment as it.existed on tub
As. So. 25th of February, 1805, of a sum equal to one half'f

Koan
V
1s.

the original premium, which haif quota was required
to be paid on 'The 1st of April, 1805, and is the sum
for which judgmeni is now-claimed."
By the .14th article of the original rules and regula.
.
every
iions of the society, it 'is provided, that, In
period bf seven years.from the commencement of thia
institution, there shall be new declarations and valua.
tions for insurance upon buildings insured by this society, and whoever fails to renew his declarations and
valuations for the space of three nmonths from the expiratiou-.of each .term of seven years, shall, cease to
enjoy the benefits of his assurance till such new declarations are made; should the valuation bpe less than be.
fore, the assured shall have no right to demand of the
sotiety. the difference of the premiums, but it shall re4
main for the benefit of the society, and in case of any
loss the insured are always to be paid according to the
last valuation."
Wiseniller did not, within three months
Korn ,
after the 'expiration of the first tefit- of.seven.years,
renew their declaration and valuation, and thereby
ceased to enjqy the benefit of their insurance.
The town aad'county of Alexandria, in which these
buildings -were situated Was, until.the 27th of February,
1801, a part of the state of Virginia, since which day
they have constituted a part of the district of Columbia. The plaintiffs have always been inhabitants of the
town of Alexandria ever since the year 1789.
.On the 25th of.December, 1795,. the society com
menced the operations of the institution.
In pursuance of the act ot Virginia of-the, 29th of
January, 1805, a separation of the interests of the in.
habitants of the towns from the interests 6f the inbabit.
ants of the country, has been. made in the manner expressed in the-Ist, 2d. 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th dections

FEBRUARY, 1810.

197

The new constitution in that act contained, went into
operation on the 30th of January, 1805.

Y*o.

14

The plaintiffs in error made a declaration.of revalua.
tion of the property insured by'them, which declaration
was under their seals, and %wAs prodhced and made in
consequence of the representations of the agent of -the
society, who stated that the plaintiffs in error, were
bound by their former declaration, and by the rules and
yegulatibns of the society, so to do.
C. ELce, for the plaintiffs in error, contended,
1. That theywere not members of the company on
the- 5th of February, 1805i. when the -demand was
made,
By the cession of the district of Columbia.,to'the
United States, the'town of Alexandria ceased to be -iq
Virginia, so that the. plaintiffs in error were not Vir.
ginians, nor was'.their property in Virginia, and ote of"
the fundamental articlei of the charter, would thus be
violated if the property should continue to be insured.
- By accepting the new charter'the old was dissolved,
and po person.:could be a member.of"the new co'mpa.
ny unless by a' new declaration, and by accepting a new
policy.
2. That the, revaluation, and- new declaration did 'not
hind the plaintiffs in error, because. it Vas made under
a misrepresentation made by the 'agent of the society ;.
and it is immaterial whether -it were a misrepresenta_
tion as to the facv or-as to thelaw,

* y the charter the assur&d only were to be .considered as membets of the company. When a per-son ceased
to be assuired 'he ceased to be a member, and was n6
longer liable to. new calls, . If the propefty of Korn &
Wisemiller had been destroyed by -fire after the !-th
of'Februafry, l80I,- (the day of the sepa1ation of Alexandria.from Virgonia,)-the society would not' have
Deen liable; 'Korn &-Wisemiler, therefore, cannot be
liable fdr-a- share of th-s lses which have happened

As. So.

198

SUPREME COURT U. S.

since tlhat.time.; It was a fundamental principle of th"
uaL
IV. As. So. charter, that the Insurance should beKona
V.

cl

The act of, congress of the 27th of February, I 81,
which adopti the laws of Virginia as the laws of that
part of the distri't of Columbia; does not aid the society, for the, law of Virginia authorized insurance to
be made upon houses in Virginia, only. 'Any person
might withdraw' from the company by refusing to pay
a quota, or by refusing to accept a policya
Swann, contra.
The original charter gave the majority of the members a right to bind the residue, as well by alterations
in the charter itself, as by rulds, by-laws and'regulations; a majority could accept a, new charter, and
thereby bind al the members.
The cession of the district of Columbia did not destroy private rights; it only' changed the political relation of the inhabitants.
N.o person could "withdraw from the company
otherwise than by the. oinde poifited out in the. act
of Virginia, after giving the notice prescribed. The
suspension of the insurance- of.a person refusing or
neglecting to pay, his quota, is a mere penalty, he does
not cease to be a member, he still remains liable for
his share of the losses, notwithstanding the suspension
of his own insurance.
If there was a misrepresentation by the agent.of the
society, it was a misrepresentation. of -a principle of
law whichi the plaintiffs in error were--bound to know
as well as the agent. They were members of the
company, and ought'to have. known all the obligations
they rofitracted as such: Fonb. Eq. 108. Doct. & Stud.
1. 46. 209.. Woodd. c0,8. Buller, 31.
JOHNSON,

J. delivered' the opinion of the court as

follows:
This cause comes up from the circuit court of Alex-

FEBRUARY,' 8Io
oxdia, in Which- a; summaryjudgm'ent. has been giv''
the
for the recover-of a confributioil demanded of
members of the. mutual assurance society conformably
to its by-laws.
The plaintiffs. here contest their liability upon- sevoral grounds.
1.. Because, by the separation oft Alexandria from
the state of-Virginia, ihey Virtually ceased to be mciiibrrs of the institution. "
2.. That, by having omitted to revalue within seVea
year., they were -no' longer'..insured, -and, .of .conse'
quence,,pot liable to:contribute.

3. That, by. the alteration of the Carter in 1805,
their security and liability became so '.materially
changed, as to.discharge them from their contract. 4. That their revaluation in -1805. ought.notrto ha
obligatory upon them becaiase they were deluded into
it by fake or incorrect suggestions.,
5. Lnat they are-not liable, %under.tfie" descriptioit
of persons who.had' insured prior to i804, as theiy,
ought to be considered, only as having insured .at the
time of their revaluation.
On the tirst of these points, the court are ofopinion,;
that the separation of Alexandria from the statc of Virginia could have no -effect upon existipg contracts oiindividuals. Such divisiois -of territory are entirely•
political; a separation of jurisdiction takes plac9,but
.private interests and private contracts- remain unaffe&trelation continues the same.,
ed, and every individuMt
except that of being associated under the same government. The circunmstance, that the law.of Virginia,'
has limited the company to the bounds of the state"
in performing its functions, could only prevent theni.
from, making newr* contract subsequent to the separatibn, and until they had received additional powers,5

Koi
V.

200

SUPREME COURT U. S.

XoA-.&
v.

but could not release them from their liability to individuals with whom they .had previously coat-acted.
Tau. As. So. Nor can the circumstance of 'the members of
the leSgislature being authorized to represent their respective
counties, affect the case ; for, although the Alexandria
property could no l6nger be represented in that mode,
there was nothing to prevent their appearing' in person,
or by proxy, at the meetings of the company.
The court are further ot opinion, that all te other
grounds assumed by the.plaintiffs are equally untenable.
Although, at the-first view, it would 'appearreasonable that he who-is not insured is not bound to. contribute, yet there may exist stroiig reasons, why,, under
the peculiar organization of this, company, a different
rule should be adopted ; and certain it is that the individual may, by his own act, subject himself'to such a
state of things. The liability of the members of this
institution is of a twofPld'nature. It results both from
an obligation to conform to the law's of their own maI ing, as members of the body politic, and from a
particular assumption or declaration which every individual 'signs on becoming a: member. The latter is
remarkably comprehensive. " We will abide by,
observe and adhere to the constitution, rules and regulations which'are already established, or may nereafter be established, by a majority of the insured present in person, or by representatives, or-by the majority
of the property insured, represented either by the persons themselves, or their proxy, duly, authorized, or
their deputy, as established by Jaw, at any general meet.
ing to be held by the said assurance society, or which
are, or may hereafter be, established by the president
and directors of the society." It would be difficult to
find words of more extensive signification than these,
or better calculated to aid, explain and enforce the
general principle, that.the majority of a corporate body
must have power to bind its inidivid~ials. It is true
that the words of this declaration, as well as the general power of a corporate body, must be restricted by
the nature and object of its institution; but apply this
vul' to the case before us, and it cannot avail the
plaintiffs, for both the rule which auspeads the* seciu-

-

FEBRUARY, 18.0 L

201

rity and the alteration made in its constitution,-under a
vote of the majority, are strictly conformable to -the M.

general objects for wfiich the company was instituted.
We are of opinion that whilst Korn & 'Wisimiller
continued members of the society, they remain sub.
ject to the general liability which that state impses;
and that, after becoming members, their ceasing to be
so must be determined by the rules of the society,
which rules, as far as we are at present advised, admit
of only two cases ; one is, where the house insured is
consumed by fire, and the otb~er, upon giving the
notice, and confo:ming to the other regulations imposed by the by-laws.
It is observable that the rule which imposes the necessity of a septenniad valuation of the property insured, does not contemplate a total rescission or annihilation of the contract; on the contrary, it is express in
declaring that, upon a revaluation being - made, the
party shall continue insured by virtue of his former
policy. We, therefore, consider this suspension of his
security merely as a penalty imposed upon the member
for neglecting to conform to a rule of the society.
And it is certainly much more reasonable 'that he
should be subject to a loss or inconvenienre for his own

neglect, than that he should be released from his lia-,
bility to the society, in consequence of it.
As to what is contended to be a material alteration
in their charter, we consider it merely iw a new arrangement or distribution of their funds and whether
just or unjust, reasonable or unreasonaole, beneficial
or otheriwise, to all concerned,

was certainly a mere-

matter of speculation, proper for the consideration of
the society, and which no individual is at libefty to,
complain of, as he is bound to consider It as his own,
individual act. Every member, in- fact,; stands- in the
peculiar situatiof of being-party of bot' sides, insurer
and insured. Certainly the general sub, nission which
they have signed will cover their iabilit,' to submit tR
this' alteration.
Vol. '1

C

KORN
* So.

202

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

The view which we have taken of this subject affords
Konn
0
an answer to the fifth ground, and, in a great measure,,
-M,As. So, tb the fourth.
We consider the insured, upon every revaluation,'as
in under his former right of membership, and, of
consequence,. that the plaintiffs come under the description of persons who had insured before 1804; and, for
the same reason, the representation of Scot (could
any. effect at all be given to the circumstances to which
he testifies) was true, as to the membership of ohe
plaintiffs, And as to their liability in that capacity; They
must have known it was a question of lawi on which
Scot possessed no power to commit the society, and on
which the plaintiffs themselves ought to have 'been as
well informed as any other individual.
Judgment affirmed.

THE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOATKINSON -u.
CIE'Y .,GAINST FIRE, ON BUILDINGS OF
THE STATL OF VIRGINIA.

THIS case differed from the case of Korn & Wise"liaiditionvi
o revaluation miller v.The Mutual Assurance Society; that being
andortherulea for a haf quota, and this for the additional prdmium
of the soiety,
only upon upon 4 revaluation, under the 7th section of the act of
1805. (See Virginia Laws, v.2. Ap.p. SI.)
caceco.
premium "pon

The question (which was submitted without argtument) was, whether the additional premium should be
charged.on the whole sum 4t which the buildings were
revalued, or only on the excess between the old and
new valuation.
Joi.;soz J. The court is of opinion that the rule
on the subject of premium imposes the additional
premium only on the excess of'the revaluation beyond
the former valuation.
Judgment reversed.

