SUPREME COURT U S
FEBRUARY TERM, 181o.

SCOTT v.NEGRO BEN.
SCOTT
V.

'ERROR to the judgment of the circuit court for The right to
the district of Columbia, sitting at Washington, freedom, uno er the act
upon a petition for freedom filed, by Negro Ben,of Maryland
against Sabrett Scott, who claimed the petitioner as which prohihiUs
slave,
ng the
of brig
r.11a
.%e
his
sla've.bits
into.that sin~e,
is nfotlacquii5!

The ground upon which the petitioner claimed his by the neglect
freedom was, that he had been imported into the state of the master
of Maryland contrary to the act of assembly of that toprove.tothe
sati~taction 2,r
state, passed in the year, 1783, entitled, ""An act to the nalaL ofi.
prohibit the bringing of slaves into this state;" by cer, orcoltector
of the tax,that
which it is enacted, "That it- shall not be lawful, such.a9urehad

resded three
after the passing this act, to import or bring into this
th ears zn the
state, by land or water, any negro, mulatto or other Urnited States,
slave, for sale, or tq reside within'this state, and although
proof be such
reany person brought into this state as a slave con- qred by the

trary to this act, if a slave before, shall thereupon act,
immediately cease to be a slave, and shall oe free,
provwded.that this act shall not prohibit any person,
being a citizen of some one of the United States,
coming into this state with a bonafide intention of
settling therein, and who shall actually reside within
this state for one year at least, to be computed from

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Gco-rT

V.

and next succeeding his coming into- the state, to
import or bring in any slave or slaves which before
to such person, and which slave or slaves
had been an inhabitant of some one of the Ubited
States, for the space of three whole years next preceding such importation ; and the residence of such
slave in some one of the United States, for three
years as aforesaidantecedent to his coming into this
state, shall be fully proved, to the satisfaction of the
naval officer, or collector of the tax, by 'the oath of the
owner, or some one oik more credible witness or witnesses."

Sbelonged

Upon the trial the defendant b4ow took two bills
of exceptions.
The first was to the opinion of the court that it
was incumbent on the defendant, (Scott,) in order
to bring himself within the proviso contained in the
first section of the act of 1783, to show'to the jury that
it has been fully proved to the satisfaction of the naval
officer, or collector 6f the tax, by theoath of the owner,
or some one or more' credible witness or witnesses
that the petitioner was a resident of some one of
the United States for three years antecedent to his
coming into the state of Maryland; .and that it was
not sufficient for the defendant t6 prove, on the trial,
to the satisfaction of the jury, that the defendant,
b~ing a citizen of some one of the United States,
and cbming into the state of 'Maryland with a bona
fide intention of settling therein, apd who actually
resided within the said state for '6ne year at, least,
computed from and next succeeding his coming into
'the state, imported the 'etitioner, who then belonged
to the defendant, and that the petitioner had been an
'inhabitant of' some one of the United States for the
space of three- whole. years next pxeceding such importation
The 'second bill of exceptions was td-the refusal
of the court to admit, as evidence, twO. certificates
made during, the trial', the one by the collector- of
the customs and naval oficer of the UOied Statks,

FEBRUARY, 1810.for the district and port of Georgetown in the dis;.
trict of Columbia, and the other by a olUector of
taxes, appointed by the levy court for the county of
Washington, in that district; the purport of which
certificates was, that Scott had, on that day, (16th,
June, 1807,) by his own oath, proved, to the saisfiction of each of those officers respectively, that
Ben '" was a resident of the state of Virginia, one
of the United States, three whole years next preceding the time when the said. mulatto Ben was
brought into the state of Maryland-."
The cause was argued by C. Lee and 'Yones, for
the plaintiff in error, and by Swann and F. S. Key,
for the. defendant.
February7,
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion -of the

court as follows, viz.
In this case three opinions were given by the cir.cuit court, -to each of which the defendant in that
court excepted. These opinions were, in substance,
. 1. That the master of a slave imported
into the
stateof Maryland, while the act, passed in the'year
1 83, entitled, "'An act to prohibit the bringing
slaves into this state,"' was in -force, could not be -admitted to prove the fact that such slave had resided '.
three years, previous to nis importation into Maryland, -in some one of the United States, unless he
could show that this fact had been -proved to the satisfaction of the naval officer, or collector of. -thetax.
2. That a certificate made by the -naval officer and
collector of the port of Georgetown, dated on the
'16th day of June, in the year 1807, -certifying that
this fact was proved to his satisfaction on. that-day,
did -not-satisfy the law.
3. That a, similar'certificate given by the collector

SCbTT

n'.

6
SCOTT

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

of the. ta" for the coufity ,of Washington did not
satisfy the law.
'The correctness of these opinions is to be tested
by comparing them with the act under which the
plaintiff in the court below claimed his freedom.
The enacting clause of that law-prohibits the importation of 6laves into the state of Maryland, and
gives freedom to such as: shall be imported contrary
to that act. A proviso excepts trom the operation
of the enacting clause those slaves which, having.
resided. for three years within some one 'of the
United States,, and being the property of .the importer, should be imported into.the state of Mary..
land by -a person intending to beccme a resident
tfiereof, and who should actually re'side, thereih for
the space of twelve months thereafter., The act
then adds-and the residene of such slave in some
one of the United States for three years as aforesaid,
antecedent to his coming into. this state, shall be
fully proved to -the satisfaction of -the naval 'officer,
or collector of the 'tax, by the bath of 'the owner, or
some one or more credible witness or witnesses.
By the plaintiff in error it is contended, that this
part of the law is directo --; that it prescribes a
duty to the importer of a slave within the description of the proviso, but does not make his title to that
slave dependent on the performance of this duty.
By the defendant it is 'contended, that this clause
forms a part of the proviso, and that the fact of previou. residence within some one of the United States
can be proved by no other testimony, if that -which
is here prescribed be wanting.
The act, in its expression, is certainly ambiguous,
and the oneconstruction or the other may be. admitted, without great violence to the words which are
dmployed.
The great object of the proviso certainly was to

FEBRUARY, 1810.

7

permit persons, actually -migrating into the , te of
Maryland, to bring with them property of this description' which had, been within the United States
a sufficient time to exclude the danger of its, being
imported into America for the particular purpose.
The great object of-the provision was, that'.the fact'
itself should accord with. this intention. The manner in which that fact should be proved was a very
subordinate consideration. ,Certainly the provisions
of the law o.ught not to be's6 construed as to defcat
its object, unleqs the language be such as absolutely
to require this construction.
It would be a singular and a very extraordinary
provision that a naval officek, or the collector of a tax,
should be made 4ie sole'judge of the right of one
individual to liberty, and of aniother to property. , It
would be equally extraordinary that the oath of one
of the parties, probably in the absence of the other,
should be conclusive on such a question. It would
be hot less strange that .the manner in which 'this
quasi judge should execute his duty should not be
prescribed, and that not even 'the attempt should'be
made to preserve any evidence of his judgment.
These considerations appear to the court, to have
great weight; and the language of the law ought to
be very positive to deprive them of their influence.
Upon an attentive conside'ation of that language,
the majority of the court is of opinion;that the property of the *e'asteris not lost 'by omitting to make
the proof which was 'directed, before the naval officdr, or the collector of the tax, and that the fact on
which his right really depends may be proved, notwithstanding this':omission.
The 'w6rds of this part of 'the 'sectiofi do not ,appdar to the court to ,be connected, either 'in their
sense, or in their mode of expression, With the.proviso. It is a distinct and a substantive, regulation..
In legislation, the conjunction "and" is very often
used when a provision is made in,no degree diepend-

SC.OT
BE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ent on that which precedes it; and, in this case, no
terms are employed which indicate the intention
of
the legislature, prescribing this particular duty, to
make the right to the property dependent on the
performance of that duty.

SCOTT

B,-.

It is, then, the opinion of the majority of he
court, that-the fact of the residence of the plaintiff
below within the United States was open for Txamination, even had his master omitted entirely to make
the proof of that residence before the naval officer,
oi colleetor gf the tax, and, consequently, that the
circuit court erred in refusing to admit testimony
respecting that fact.
The opinion of the court on this point renders a:
decision on the other exceptions uinecessary.

FIELD AND OTHERS v. HOLLAND AND
OTHERS.

[he
reportapof
Loditts,

muintedbycon._t
. a a paotis
sit i n
quity, is not
n the nature

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
Georgia, in a chncery suit, in which Field, Hunt,
Taylor and Robeson, were complainants, and
Holland, Melton, Tigner, Smith, Cox and Dougherty,
were defendants.

)f an award
)y arbitratort,
ext ma; be set
iside by the

The decree of the court below dismissed, the bill

mither fraud,
:orrn
ptlon, or
)artiality,

The bill stated that, on the 21st of July, '1787, M-i

iourt, although as to all the defendants.

jah Wiliamsan obts ined from the state of Georgia
a grant of, 12,500 acres in Franklin county, in that
state. On the 9th of July; 1788, Williamson 4onWithout ex- veycd to Sweepson, who, on.the 23d of July, 1792,
,resay revo- conveyed to Cox, Who, on the 3d of September, 1794,
Og an orde
freference to conveyed to Naylor, who, on the 18th of: December,
llet,

ois.
c
on the

iart

of the filitors, be profed.

Luihtors,

the 1794, conveyed-to the cbmplainant Field, and one

