3124
DtFouszAv

SUPREME'COURT U. S.

WASHINGTON and TODD, Justices, agreed in opinion

S. with Judge Livingston.
Judgment reversecI6

TYLER AND OTHERS v. TUEL

.n assignee of

THIS was a case certified from the circuit court of

art
of'
a Pate
a right
fa tcap.
the
',tr

at

maintain

acti,

on

ie case foar

atent.

nolatio
of the

district of Vermont.

Tyler and others, as assignees of Benjamin Tyler,
the original patentee of an improvement in grist-mills,
which he c~lled the wry-fly, or side wheel.
After a verdict for the plaintiffs, the judges of the
court below, upon a motion in arrest of judgment,
were divided in opinickn upon the questi6n *"whether
the plaintiffs, by their own showing, are legal assignees
to maintain this action."
There were two counts in the declaration.
The first set forth the substance of the statutes 'upon
the subject of patents for useful discoveri-s, the facts
necessary to entitle the paentete to a patent for his invention, and the patent itself, together with the -specificationdated February 20, 1800.
The averment of the assignment of the patent right
to the plaintiffs was in these words: "And the plaintiffs further, say, that the said Benjamin Tyler afterwards,to wit, on the 15th day of Mal in the year last
aforesaid, at said, Claremoit, by his cert:in deed, of
that date by him signed, sealed, and to the plaintiffs
then and there by the said Benjamin delivered, and
ready to be shcwn to the court, did in consideration of
the sum of six thousand dollars, to him befisre that
time by the plaintiffs paid, grant, bargain, sell, assign

FEBRUARY, 1810.

325

and set over to the plaintiffs' their executors, adminiso

TYLEZ

trators and assigns, all the right, title and privilege in,
unto, and over the said improvement in the said patent
describeaI, anti thereby vested in the said Benjamin in
any part of the Unired States, xcefiting.ln the counties
of Chittenden, Addison, Rutland and Windham, in
tie state of Vermont."

Tuv.*,.

The second count, omitting the recital of the statutes
and of the patent, stated concisely the same facts.
The averment of the assignm.ent'of the patent right
was as follows: " And the said Benjamin I'yler, afterwards, and befotre the'expiration-of the said-fourteen
years, to wit, at said Claremont, on the 15th day of
Ma-, in the year last aforeidid, by. his certain deed of
that date by him then and there signed, sealed, and to
the plaintiffs delivered, assigned-to the plaintiffs the full
and exclusive right and liberty of making, constructing,
using, and vending to* oiht-rs to be ust:d¢ the said improvement, in and throughout the United States, .excetiIug in the cootntis of Chittendcn, Addison, Rutlan4 and Windham, in the'state of Vermont, 'as fully
and amplv as by aid letters pAtent'the said Benjatiin
T lei"
was thereto entitled, and all his title- and interest
in and unto said improvement excepting- as aforesaid."
Hubbard, for the defendant, dontended that the
asiignmnent,'being of part of the patent righ.t.only, was
not Stch as would authdrize thk assignees to maintain
.anaction on the statute.. CLaws U. S. vol. 2. p. 202.
I4,

5.

rhe fourth sectioh of the act decldres,. "that it shall
be lawful for anyindentor, his executor or administra'
-for,to assign the title and interest in the said invention
at any time, and the qssignee, having recorded the said
assignment iii the office of. the secretary of state, shall
thereafter stand in -theplace of the origiualinventor both
as to right and responsibility, and so the assignee& of
assigns to any degree."
The fifth section provides, ",that if any person. shall
make, devise and use, oi sell the thing -o invented, ie.

326
TILMF
V.

lv El..

,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

exclusive right of which shall, as aforesaid, have been
secured to any person by patent, without the consent

of the patentee, his executors, adiimstrators or asszgwn
first obtained in writing, every person so offending shall
forfeit and pay to the patentee a sum that shall be at
least equal to three times the price for which the patwntee has usually sold or jicensed to other persons the
use of the said invention, which may b- recovered in
an actan on the case founded on this act, in the circuit court of the United States, or any other court hay
Ing competent jurisdiction.")
It is evident from the whole purview of the statute,
especialv from the 4th, 5th, 6th and loth sections, that
no person can he considered as an assignee under the
statute, who is not the assignee of the whole right of
the original patentee.
Rodney, Attorney-General, contra.
Upon a motion in arrest of judgment, if the judges
are divided, the motion fails, and the judgment must be
entered' of course. It must follow the verdict, unless
sufficient cause be shown to the contrary. I Salk. 17
Ld. Rqym. 271. 3 Mod 156.
If there can be no assignment but of the whole right,
then the exception of particular counties is void, it-being repugnant to the prior words and intention of the
grant.
So if the jury find a fact inconsistent with a fact previously found, the latter fact shall be rejected. Cro.
Car 130. 3 East. 6 Bac. Abr 381. Plowd. 564. 1 B!,
Com. 89. 2 Co. 83. 8 Co. 56. Dye?', 351. 1 Go. 3.
1 Yent, 521. Gro. Eliz. 244.

The whole passed at law by the deed of assignment.
The exceptions are in the nature of equitable assignments.
On a.subsequent day the court directed the following
opinion to be certified to the circuit court for the district of Vermont, viz.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

327

It is the opinion of the court that the plaintiffs, 6y
their own showing,, are .not legal assignees to maintain
this action, in their own name-, and that the judgment
of the circuit court be arrested.

TYLER

TUZEL.

THE SCHOONER JULIANA v. THE UNITED
STATES;
and
THE SHIP ALLIGATOR v. THE UNITED
STATES.

THESE were appeals from the sentence of (the itio %vas
aginst
circuit court for the district of Mar land, affirming offiee
the
embar~go

the sentence of the district court, which condemned a,

, take

nut of
the schooner Jztiana, and the shup Ai-ator and gods
one veslandi
cargo, for a supposed violation of thF 3d section of ihe put themi nto
act of congress of the 9th. of january,1808, entitled annther ill the
"An act supplementary to the act, entitled anract lay- put .6f-Bali.
nire,

unless it

ing an embargo on all ships and vessels in- the ports be w;th an in
and harbours of the United Statea," by putting goods trnt to, export
from the Juliana on board the Alligator.
The libel, in the case of the Juliana, stated, that on
the first of January, 1808, she, being a Swedish vessel,
cleared from Baltmore for' Port au Prince, having-on
board 100 barrels of herrings,-which were on board
when her master was notified of the embargo, that
sbe proceeded on her voyage to her port of desunation,
but before she left Ptapsco river, there were laden on
board of her a complete cargo of.merchandise, foreign
and domestic, with which she proceeded, in pros-cution of her said voyage, until the 1st of Jpnuary, 1808,
when she was arrested by"the officer ot the customhouse of the port of Baltimore, and brought back,
after which, and while she was in that port,. viz. the
IIth of January, 1808, sundry goods, described in -the
libel,, were taken and removed from the Juliana and
put on board the Alligator, then lying in the port of

