SUPREME COURT U. S.
D.

KINo
V.

might justify a captain in acting as if that intelligence

hr. Co. were true.

The case of Blackenhagen v. The London Assurance Company, has a strong bearing on this case, and
though that was a decision at Nisi Prius, it is entitled to all the respect which is due to the court of
common pleas. After the same opinion had been successively given by Lord Ellenborough, and by Sir
James Mansfield, it was affirmed by the whole court,
and the jury having found against the opinion of the
judge, a new trial was granted.
The court gives no opinion on the question how far
the underwriters would have been liable, had the
orders of council prohibited the trade to the Isle of
France. This decision is not intended in any manner
to affect that question.
Judgment affirmed with costs-

LEWIS v. HAR.WOOD.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
A bond in
actition
;in
n a bond dated Fehhitwouldetu
t wuo V
Virginia, in an action of deb'upon
which
he uecemsary bruary ^, 1784, the condition of which was, that if
to assign
andbreacall the obligor should pay to William Whetcroft, his at,chcs,
in a jury, to torney, heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, the
assess dama- sum of 3,0001. current money of Virginia, on or
?ts, is not asi nable, u- efore the
ler the statute to be void.
14 Virginia.

1st of January, 1185, then the obligation

Providedthat if the obligor, on application by the
obligee at the town of Fredericksburg, on or after
the 1st of January, 1785, should" pay to the obligee
3,0001. in officers' certificates of a certain description,
or should pay the interest of 6 per cent. from the
date of the bond, on such certificates, if not paid,
and should annually and punctually pay the said 6 per

FEBRUARY, 181o.

83,

cent. when applied to as before mentioned, in do ing of
which the condition of the bond was to be dischargeable'by payment of' the 3,0001. officers' certificates, otherwise the bond was to have its full force
and effect.
Upon the pleas of payment, and conditions performed, the verdict and judgment below were for
the plaintiff.
The defendant brought his writ of error.
Terrell and Swann, for the plaintiff in" error, contended,
That the bond was not assignable under the act,
of assembly of Virginia, and therefore the plaintiff below, who was the assignee, could not recover in his
own name,
The act of 1748 applies only to a bond givenfor
a debt. And by a subsequent act, it is explained to
mean a money debt.

The subsequent act makes tobacco bonds assignable.
In the case of Henderson v. Hefiburn, 2 Call, 232.
238." it is-decided that an assignee cannot maintain
an action of debt in his own name upon a bond with
a collateral condition. Craig v. Craig, 1 Call 483.
The condition of the bond is either to pay 3,0001.
by a certain day, or to pay 3,0001, in certificates, or
to pay interest on the certificates.

A bond is not assignable unless it be for a debt so
certain, as not to require the aid of a jury to assess

the damages, or to ascertain the sum due.
February 24.
LIVINGSTON, J.

delivered the opinion of the court

as follows: , On the 3d day of February, 1784, the

Lwis
v.
HARWO6D,

vi
Ln.wxs
HARWOon.

SUPREME COURT U. 9.

plaintiff executed his bond to William' Whetcroft,
sum of 6,0091. to which there is a conin the penal
dition in the following words: '"The cbndition of
the above obligation is such, that if the said John Lewis shall well and truly pay to the said Williani Whetcroft the full sum of three thousand pounds, current
money of Virginia, on or before the first day of January, 1785, then this obligation to be void. Provided,
and it is to be understood,.that in case the said Lewis,
on application by the said Whetcroft to him, in
the town of Fredericksburg, on or after the said
first day of January, shall pay unto the said William, or his attorney, the sum of three thousand
pounds in officers? certificates .issued under an act
of assembly passed November, 1781, for pay or arrearages of pay and depreciation, or shall well and
truly pay the interest of six per centum from the
date hereof, on-the said certificates, if not paid, and
shall moreover annually and punctually pay the said
six per cent. when applied to as before mentioned, in
doing of which the condition of this bond is ischargeable by payment of the said three thousand
pounds officers' certificates; otherwise the bond shall
have its full force and effect.
This bond was assigned to the defendant on the
3d of August, 1790, and an action at law was brought
on it- in the name of the assignee in the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Virginia,
when judgment was rendered for the defendant.
On this judgment a writ of error has been sued
out, and the plaintiff alleges that the same should be
reversed, because the bond on which this action is
brought is not assignable under the laws of Virginia,
so as to enable the assignee, to prosecute at law in
his own name. Other causes of error have been.
assigned, but the opinion of the court being with the
plaintiff on the first point, -it will not be 'necessary to
take any notice of the objections which have bet
made to the pleadings, or to the imperfect finding ot
the jury.

PEBRUARY, L810.
A bond not being assignable at common law, the
present question must turn altogether on the statutes of
Virginia. It seems to have been, for a long time
doubted, after passing the act of 1748, c. 27. whether
any but -bonds conditioned to pay money or tobacco
werejassignable. That question was, however, at last
settled by the court of appeals, in the case of Henderson v. Hepburn, in which it was decided, that a
bond with a collateral condition was not, within the
meaning of this act, assignable. With this decision
the court not only feels no inclination to interfere, but
thinks it a fair and just exposition of the acts which
had then been passed on this'subject. The bonds intended by the legislature were most clearly such as
were to become void on the payment-of a sum certain, and where no intervention or assessment of i
jury was necessary. Bonds which require particular
breaches to be assigned, damages on which were to
be estimated or liquidated by a jury, do- not appear
to have been contemplated.
It being then settled that bonds with collateral conditions were not assignable under the laws in forte at
the time of the making of this assignment, it only
remains to. ascertain the true character of the condition of the bond On which this action is brought.
Although -by payment of 3,0001. on or before a
crrtain day, the obligor. might have discharged himself from the penalty, it was part of the condition
that, on the application of the obligee, by a certain
day, a payment in certain certificates, which were
not money, might be substituted. This, created an alternative by which the penalty might be discharged
either by money or officers' certificates; and although
the consent of both parties might be necessary, to a
payment in the latter way, still, as it made part of the
written contract, the court cannot but perceive that, on
a certain contingency, it was to be considered, as a
bond on *hich it might, as it did, become- necessary
to assign breaches and call in a jury to assess -damages. If we look at the recbrd, we shall find -the

'Liwis
v.
HAivoot.r

86

SUPREME COURT U. S.

parties, their counsel and the jury treating it as a

Lzwrt

bond of this description.

V.

HARWOOP.

It is the opinion, therefore, of the court, that this
bond was not assignable under the laws of Virginia,
and that the judgment of.the circuit court for the
district of Virginia must be reversed, and judgment
on the verdict be arrested.

RIDDLE AND COMPANY v. MANDEVfLLE AND

JAMESSON.

conrta
The upon
below

A MANDATE had been issued uponthe reversal of

on

the decree in this case at the last terim, in which,

mandate

"(this court, proceeding to give such decree as the said
reversal of its
judgment may
award execou- circuit court ought to have given, doth decree and
tion for the order, that the defendants pay to. the plaintiffs the sum
costs

of the

appellant
that court.

in of 1,500 dollars, that being the amount of the note

in the bill mentioned, together with interest thereon
from the .time the same became due, you are hereby
commanded, that such execution-and proceedings be
had on the said decree of the said supreme court, -s,
according to equity and justice, and the laws of the
United States, ought to he had, the said writ of error

notwithstanding."
Nothing having been said iespecting the costs, the
court below had not issued execution, for the costs of
the appellant.
E. 7. Lee moved the court for a further mandate
to the court below, to award the costs of. that court.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The court below is always
cgmpetent to award costs in a chancery suit in-that
court, and, in case of a mandate, may issue execution
"herefor.

