SUPREME COURT U. S.
MDartin and P B. Key, for the claimants, prayed
U. S. the court to direct that the proceeds should be paid

RACHEL

T-,

over to the claimants.

,

But the court said that it was a matter to be left
to the consideration of the court below. This co'ut
will only make a general order for restitution of the
property condemed.

THE BRIGANTINE AMIABLE LUCY v. TH&
UNITED STATES,

,'4eact ,,r01. ERROR to the district court of the United States,

ress of the for the district of Orleans, to reverse the sentence of
Sth of Febru
., 180s, to. that. court which condemned the brigantine Lucy, for

revent,

the

importing a slave from the West Indies, contrary to

nportation of I

DrWIn persons the act of congress of the 28th of February, 1803, vol.
,to
certain 6. p. 212. entitled " An act to prevent the importation

of certain persons into certaiiz states, where, by the
iercenf. their laws thereof, their admission is prohibitedi" by th-e first
iS section of which it is enacted, that no master of a yesrohibiied,
lImission *is
Sel, "or any other person, shall import or bring, or
in
otn f)ree
negro, amulatto.,
or brought;
to person
be imported
cause
te
territory or
ctizen,
a native,
not beingany
of colour,
other
f.Orleans.
ates. iwhere,
v the lawS

or registered seaman of the United States, or seamep,
natives of countries beyond the Cape of Good Hpe,
into any port or place of tme United States, whzch
port or place shall be sz!uated m any state which by law
ha.yprohibried,or shall brohibit, the admission or zmporla.
tion of such negro," &c.
And by the second section it is enacted, ",that if
any such negro or mulatto, or other perso of colour,
.shall be landed from on board any ship or vessel, in
any of the ports or places aforesaid, or, on the coast of
any state prohibdting the admission or importation as
aforesaid, the said ship or vessel," &c. " shall be forfeited to the United States."
By the seventh section of the act of M-arch 26, 1804,

TFEBRUARY, isio.

391

If erecting Louisiana, into two territories, aniprovi- A,t.lAUL
ding for the temporary government thereof," (Laws
U. S vol. 7 p. 116.) it is enacted, that the above act of
28th of Februarv, 1803, 41shall extend to, and havefidI
force and efect in, the above mentioned territories."
And the tenth section of the same act (vol. 7.p. 1-19.)
prohibits the importation of slaves into the territory of
Orleans, from any place without the United States, unL
der the penalty of 300 dollars; and also prohibits, under the like penaltv, the importation from the United
States of any slave imported into the United States
since the first of May, 1798, ari'l of all other slaves
except by a citizen of the United States removing into
.the territory for actual settlement, and being the bond
.fide owner of such slaves, at the time of such remova,
By the, fourth section of the act of March 2, 1805,
vol. 7 p. 281. entitled,, " An act further providing for
'the government of the territory of Orleans," it is enacted, " that theliaws inforce in the saidterritoryat the
commencement of this act, and not incoMstent with thc.
provisions thereof, shall continue inforce until altered,
modified or repealed by the legislature," by that act established., And the eighth section enacts, 'that so
much of an act, entitled, an act erecting Louisiana into
two territories, and providing ftr the temporary.goverrn.
ment thereof, as is repugnant with this act, shay, from
-and after the first Monday of November nest," he re-

pealed, and-the residue of the said act shall ebnthlfte in
idllrce, until repealed,any thing in the 16tkt section of
tle act to the contrary notwithstanding."
This act (March 2, 1805) establishes aygovernment
for the' territory of Orleans, similar to that before exercised in the lVississippi territory, (vou 5. p. 164.)
with a few exceptions. Fhe fifth section declares that
the article of the ordinance of the old, congress for
the government of.the territory norh-west~of the Ohio,
which prohibits slavery, is excluded from- all operation
within the territory of Orleans.
It was admitted that the territorial legislature had

V.
Tim U. S,

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
AmTAELE
Luocv
Lc

never passed any law prohibiting the importation of
slaves.

T.B U. S.
'":'

It was contended by Rodney, Attorney-General, that
as congress by the act of the 26th of March, 1804, pro.
hibited the importation of slaves from foreign countries
into the territory of Orleans, and as the same act expressly extends to the territory the act-of the .28th of
February, 1803, which forfeits the.ship which imports
a slave into a state where such importation is prohibited,
the evident meaning and intention of congress was, to
declare that the vessel should be forfeited i hich ihould
import a slave into the territory of Orleans.
E. Lzvzng ston, contra, contended, that inasmuch as
the territorial legislature of -Orleans had never prohibited such importation, the act of the 28th of February, 1803, did not apply. If the territory is -to be
assimilated to a state, so as to brng the case within
the spirit of the law, yet, there must have been a prohibition by the territorial legislature, to make it a parallel case.
And of that opinion was this court, the -case having
been submitted without argument.
Sentence reversed,

SERE AND LARALDE - .'PITOT AND OTHERS,

A

general as-

ERROR ,tothe district court of -the United States

rof
the for the district of Orleans, in a suit in equity, in which
s',e,,1e
e t.Ls of ax,
insolvent can- Sere.& Laralde were complainants, against Pitot and
su
tseothers, defindants,
not
feiieralcors
if his assignor

not those
have
The complainants stated, that they were aliens, and
could
sued| in
syndics of the creditors of the joint concern of Dumas
courts.
The citizens & Janeau, Pierre Lavergne and Joseph Faurie, that
"
of the territom
r " of Orleans Faurke died insolvent, that Dumas & Jaeau were

