MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 371
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

jurisdiction wai. certified by the Circuit Court to this
court.

On the authority of Ladew v. Tennessee Copper Compaay, ante, p. 357, the decree of the court below must be
affirmed.
It is so ordered.

MONTEZUMA CANAL COMPANY v. SMITHVILLE
CANAL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 1. Argued October 21, 24, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Where the trial court makes findings of facts and states conclusions
of law thereon but certifies no rulings in respect of evidence, and
the Supreme Court of the Territory enters a general judgment of
affirmance, manifestly based upon the correctness of such findings
of fact, they furnish a sufficient statement for the appeal; and, in
this court, the question is whether they are sufficient to support
the decree.- Stringfellow v. Cain, 99.U. S. 610.
Notwithstanding there may have been a prior appropriation of water,
if the rights of appropriators were adjudicated in a suit of which the
parties had notice, the judgment in that suit may be pleaded as rec
judicata in a subsequent suit to determine the rights of appropriators, and the amount awarded to an appropriator by judgment in
the first suit cannot be reduced.
The 'fact that it is within the legislative power to provide administrative machinery to supervise the common use of water, does not
render invalid the decree of a court providing such machinery to
carry out a particular decree if the court deems it necessary and
proper so to do.
As the laws of Arizona authorize the Supreme Court to cause its
judgments to be carried into execution, that court does not transcend its authority in appointing a commissioner to supervise the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

taking of water from a stream by the various appropriators to whom
its common use is awarded and in apportioning the expense pro
rata between them.
11 Arizona, 99, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the rights of appropriators,
of water of a river in Arizona, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas Armstrong, Jr., with whom Mr. John J.
Hawkins and Mr. C. L. Rawlins were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Walter Benneu tor appellees.
MR. JusTicE WHiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona (11 Arizona, 99; 89 Pac. Rep. 512), which is appealed from, affirmed a decree of a District Court of the
Territory determining the rights of appropriators within
the county of Graham to the waters of the Gila River.
In the brief of counsel for the appellee it. is suggested.
that the appeal should be dismissed because the matter
in dispute does not exceed the sum of five thousand dol!srs, and because the appellant has no substantial financial
interest in the cause. We think, however, that the record
Sufficiently shows that the jurisdictional amount is involved, and that the appellant has such interest as entitles it to prosecute the appeal. We shall, therefore,
consider the case upon the merits.
The issues below were made up by an amended complaint, in which the Smithville Canal Company and the
Central Canal Company and the water-users under these
canals were plaintiffs, and the Montezuma Canal .Company and other canal companies, as also the water.-users
under such canals, were defendants. The general nature
of the controversy is indicated by the character of the

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 373
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decree entered in the District Court just stated. Incorporated in the answer of the Montezuma Canal Company
and its water-users were averments, in the nature of a
cross bill against the San Jose Irrigatilig Company and
the San Jose Extension Canal Qompany and various other
defendants, setting up a former judgment recovered in
the District Court of. Graham County by the Montezuma
Canal Company as settling between the Montezuma Company and said co-defendants rights in the water of the
river. The San Jose Irrigating Company, it is to be remarked, was incorporated in 1892, and in 1904 the San
Jose Extension Canal Company was incorporated, and
undertook the management, repair and operation of a
part of the canal previously under the control of the San
Jose Irrigating Company.
The trial court made findings of fact and stated conclusions of law thereon, but certified no rulings in respect
to the admission or rejection'6f evidence. The Supreme
Court of the Territory made no express findings of fact,
but entered a general judgment of affirmance, manifestly
based upon the correctness of the findings of the trial
court. Under such circumstances the findings of the District Court furnish a sufficient statement of the facts for
the purposes of this appeal. Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S.
610. The question for decision, therefore, is whether such
findings are sufficient to support the decree.' Ib.
We are concerned, however, only with the error assigned-by the Montezuma Canal Company, as that company alone appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, and it is the only party to the record now seeking a
reversal of the judgment of affirmance entered by the
appellate tribunal.
The contentions urged- by the Montezuma Company
are twofold: First, that due effect was not given to the
prior judgment which it pleaded and which determined
its rights in the water of the Gila River as against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

appropriators of water from that river at points above
the head of its canal; and, second, that error was committed in the appointment of a so-called water commissioner, charged with the duty of distributing the water
among the different canals according to the adjudged
priorities. There being then no controversy in respect
to the rights to water decreed in favor of the canals situated below the head of the Montezuma Canal Company,
the findings in respect to those canals need not be 'particularly referred to.
Before stating the contents of the decree which was
entered in the trial court we make a condensed statement
of the facts embodied in the findings upon which the decree was based, in order to a comprehension of the controversy arising for determination.
There are 23,728 acres of land in the county of Graham,
Territory of Arizona, which are irrigated by water diverted
from the Gila River by means of twenty-five ditches or
canals. These canals extend from a point in section 29,
township 6 south, range 28 east, at first in a southwestwardly and then in a northwestwardly direction, to a
point forty-one miles distant at the northeast corner of
the southeast quarter of section 35, township 4 south,
range 23 east. Commencing with the head of this irrigation system the canals in question, in their order as
respects the flow of the waters of the river and the number
of acres irrigated by each canal, are as follows: Brown,
100 acres; Sanchez, 400 acres; Mejia, 320 acres; Fourness, 260 acres; San Jose, 3,000 acres; Michelena, 450 acres;
Montezuma, 3,750 acres'; Union, 2,900 acres; Sunflower,
400 acres; Graham, 962 acres; Central, 2,675 acres; Oregon,
1,100 acres; SMnithville, 1,760 acres; Bryce, 515 acres;
Dodge, 450 acres; Nevada, 800 acres; Curtis, 800 acres;
Kempton, 850 acres; Reid, 100 acres; Ft. Thomas, 960
acres; Thomlson, 240 acres; Military, 400 acres; Saline,
46 acres; Zeckendorf, 500 acres. The Montezuma Canal

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 375
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was first constructed. The six canals situated above the
head of that canal were constructed as follows: The San
Jose and the Michelena in 1874, the Mejia in 1877, the
Sanchez in 1883, the Fourness in 1891 and the Brown in
1896. The first canal below the Montezuma is called the
Union, and was constructed in 1879. Among other things
it was found that the Union Canal "carries water for
one hundred acres that was reclaimed in 1874 and irrigated by water that was then diverted from the river and
carried to the land by the Montezuma Canal.

.

.

Embodied in the "conclusions of law" made by the
court is a statement that William Ellsworth and other
named individuals "were the persons or successors in
interest to the persons who in 1875 appropriated water
for and applied it to the first 300 acres of land" in ce cain
named sections, "and who are diverting and carrying
water thereto through the San Jose Canal .

.

One-half of a miner's inch per acre was found to be
necessary for the irrigation of the lands served by the
various canals. It was further found that a surface flow
of 7,500 miners' inches in the Gila River at the head of
the irrigation system furnished more water than is needed
to irrigate the entire acreage shown by the evidence to
have been in cultivation -in the year 1904; and it was also
'found that "there is a greater flow than this amount during the larger part of the year, so that the amount of water
available for irrigation purposes is more than one-half
of a miner's inch per acre for a greater length of time bach
year than the time during which the supply is less than
one-half inch per acre."
Substantially all of the canals referred to are- now controlled by incorporated canal companies, respecting whom
the trial court found as follows:
"The different incorporated canal companies, who are
parties plaintiff and defendant herein, are duly and regularly incorporated under the laws of this Territory, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U.S.

own and control the several canals as alleged in the pleadings herein, which canals were originally operated by
unincorporated partnerships or societies, and the present
oorporations, parties hereto, are the successors Io the
unincorporated owners of the several canals, and are in
every instance carrying the water for the use of the land
owners or the successors in interest of the land owners
who were the original appropriators of the water carried
therein for irrigation purposes. None of the parties hereto
have been engaged or are now engaged in carrying water
for hire, and none of the incorporated companies, parties
hereto, have appropriated any water in their corporate
capacity. None of the - several parties hereto who are
land owners, appropriators of water, 'or who are receiving
water for irrigation from the different incorporated companies or through the several canals owned by the parties
hereto, have ever maintained their right to their several
priorities as against the cowners of land or co-users of
water in their respective canals, but the individual land
owners and'appropriators of water that is furnished under
the management of each of the several ditches or canals,
herein referred to, have surrendered to their co-users in
that canal their, priority, and the water that is taken from
the river for the use of the land under the several canals
lias been, by the consent of the different land owners under
each canal, delivered to the different tracts of land in
accordance with the extent of the interest in the ditch
or canal of each land owner, regardless of the acreage
cultivated by the said land owner, and regardless of the
date when the said acreage was placed under cultivation."
Findings XI and XII are as follows:
"XI. On the 17th day of February, 1897, a decree was
entered in this court in action No. 505 wherein the Montezuma Canal Company was plaintiff, the San Jose Irrigating Company, a corporation, Chiricahua Cattle Company, a corporation, Pedro Michelena and others were

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 377
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendants, wherein it was judged and decreed that the
plaintiff had the right and was entitled to have flow into
the Montezuma Canal continuously from the Gila River
at all times during the dry season of the year when water
is low and scarce in said river, 1,000 miner's inches of
water, and was entitled to have flow from the said river
into said canal 2,000 miner's inches of water at times of
wet seasons of the year when water is high and plentiful
therein, as against each and all of the defendants in said
action, and in which it was ordered, adjudged and decreed
that said defendants above named, and all persons claiming under them and each of them, be perpetually restrained
and enjoined from diverting or taking water from the
said river above the head of the plaintiff's said canal, or
in any manner obstructing the flow of water in -the said'
river, so as to prevent the said water from flowing in the
bed of said river down the same, and therefrom into plaintiff's canal to the full extent of a thousand inches during
each and every dry season of the year when water is low
and scarce, and also from, in any manner preventing the
said 2,000 miner's inches of water from flowing dovn the
channel or bed of said river, and from flowing therefrom
into the plaintiff's said canal during the wet seasons of
the year .when water is plentiful in said river.
"XI. On the 18th day of September, 1900, a,.cormplaint was filed in the District Court of the Second' Judicipl District, in and for Graham County, Territory- of
Arizona, in action No. 797, in which the San Jose Irrigating Company was plaintiff and E. L. Tidwell et al.
were defendants, and on March 31, 1901, a stipulation
was filed in the said cause No. 797, by and between the
San Jose Irrigating Company and its stockholders on the
one hand and Frank Dysart, Pedro.Michelena, and Frank'
McLean, using Water on lands owned by them, through
the Michelena Ditch, on the other handl in which it was
stipulated and agreed that the grantors and predecessors

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

in interest of both parties made their original appropriation of the water of the Gila River at the same date or
time and that neither should, as against the other, claim
or 'attempt to prove any prior or superior right to any
of the water of the said Gila River by reason of having
been prior in date or time of making the original appropriation of the water of the said Gila River; and on the
29th of June, 1901; a decree was entered in the said District Court in the said action No. 797, in which it was
found and decreed by the court that the first right to
diversion, use and enjoyment of the water in the Gila
River, after the prior appropriation of 1,000 miner's inches
theretofore decreed to the Montezuma Canal Company,
was in -the plaintiff, the San Jose Irrigating Company,
its shareholders and stockholders, to the extent of a perpetual flow of 1,500 miner's inches, and in the defendants
Frank Dysart, Alexander McLean, and Pedro Michelena,
using water through the Michelena Ditch, to the extent
of a perpetual flow of 500 miner's inches of water in the
Gila River.
:."That neither the plaintiff or defendants, users of water
under the Michelena Ditch, have priority of right over
the other to the use of the water of the said Gila River,
but'they shall have equal right thereto, and shall pro rate
the flow of water in the Gila River -in the above proportions in case of scarcity of water therein, or in case of a
failure of ax full flow of water in said river from any cause
sufficient to supply each with the quantity herein decreed,
to be the quantity' to which each is entitled in point of
time."
We excerpt in full in the margin ' the decree which was
'Be it remembered, that on the 28th day of April, 1905, the same
being a regular judicial day of the April term of the said District Court,
this cause came on regularly for trial before the court without a jury,
a jury having been expressly waived by the parties in open court.
The parties appeared in person and by their respective attorneys, and

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 379
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

entered by the trial court, omitting the tabular statement
as to the amounts of water to which the water-ifsers under
the several canals were entitled when the surface flow
at the head of the irrigating system was 300, 400, 500,
the court having heard the testimony of the witnesses and the arguments of counsel, and having examined the documentary evidence, the
records and papers introduced by both parties, -the evidence was
closed and the cause was submitted to the- court for consideration and
decision, and after due deliberation thereon and examination of the
briefs filed by the attorneys of the respective parties, the court delivered its findings and decision in writing (filed .herein) and orders
that judgment be entered in accordance therewith.
Wherefore, by reason of.the law and the findings afores' A, it is
ordered and adjudged and decreed that the. several parties to this
suit are entitled to receive and are hereby authdrized to divert and
convey from the Gila River water sufficient, each for his or their lands,
from time to time, in the amounts and in the order of priority as shown
in the tabular statement hereto attached, and filed herewith, and
marked "Tabular statement of amounts of water to which the water
users under the several canals are entitled at different stages of water
in the river, showing the accretions to the surface flow at the head of
the irrigatiori system, and giving the approximate amounts thereof at
the head of the different canals."
And the several parties hereto are each hereby forever enjoined from
in any wise obstructing or interfering with the rights of any of the
other parties to this suit and for the purpose of carrying. into effect
this decree Albert T. Colton is hereby appointed a commissioner of
this court, to hold said office and exercise the powers and duties thereof,
hereinafter prescribed, until a further order of this court.
The said commissioner shall have the power, at all time, when it
shall be proper and necessary, in the discharge of his duties, to enter
upon any and 'all of those certain canals and ditches known as the
Brown, Sanchez, Mejia, Fourness, San Jose, Michelena, Montezuma,
Union, Sunflower, Graham, Central, Oregon, Smithville, Bryce, Dodge,
Nevada, Curtis, Kempton, Zeckendorf-Clavenger, Reid, Fort Thomas,
Zeckendorf-Collins, Thompson, Military, Saline, and upon each and
every part thereof, and upon all the dams, gates, flumes, and other
structures and appliances, for the obstruction, diversion, or conveyance of water from said Gila River for the irrigation of lands under
any or all of said canals, or ditches, and have supervision and direction
of the placing of, changing, closingf or opening, of the same for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

750, 1,000, 1,500, 2,000, 2,500,' 3,000, 3,500, 4,000, 4,500,
5,000, 5,500, 6,000, 6,500, 7,000 and 7,500 inches respectively.
The question arises whether due effect was given to
purpose of the discharge of his duties, and to direct the placing.of
proper -gates, dams or other means for the control of the water of said'

river at the heads of the canals or other points on the banks of said
canals as he may direct, at the expense of the parties hereto interested
therein, and to make such rules and regulations as he may deem proper
and expedient, to be observed by the'parties hereto, for the distribution and use of said water.
And it is further ordered that said commissioner shall in person, with
the assistance of such help as he may need, superintend and control
the distribution and use of water by the parties hereto, and by the
proper practice direct the diversion of such water from said river and
its conveyance to the place of use by whatsoever means he may deem
best to secure the greatest economy therein. In the service of said
water he shall direct the distribution thereof in accordance with the
rights of the parties asto the extent of land irrigated and order of
priority of time of appropriation as in this decree established. In the
distribution and use of such water the commissioner shall take as a
basis of the supply necessary for the cultivation of said lands one-half
ot a miner's inch constant flow for each acre of land, or at that ratio,
reckoning forty miner's inches as the equivalent to a flow of one cubic
foot per second; provided, however, that no land shall be served with
an amount of water in excess of that beneficially used thereon. In
measuring the water so supplied the measure shall be taken for the
water supplied to the several canals at the point of diversion from the
river.
The commissioner shall report, from time to time, to the court as
to his action in the premises, and shall, whenever he needs the same,
apply to the court for further directions as to his powers and duties to
make this decree effective.
Any of the parties to this suit may apply to this court for any proper
modification of this order 'or in the supervision and direction of the
commissioner.
The compensation of said commissioner shall be one hundred and
fifty dollars and twenty cents ($150.20) per month, and shall be paid
by the *partieshereto in the proportion set out in the followingtable,
to wit:
A table designating the amounts to be paid by the water users un-

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 381
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the decree entered in the action No. 505 on February 17,
1897, in favor of the Montezuma Canal Company, referred to in finding No. XI; in other words, Is the decree
as entered warranted by the facts as found?
der the several canals and ditches, as their pro rata proportion of the
salary of the commissioner, based upon the acreage irrigated under

each canal:
Canal.
Acres.
Brown ..........................
100
Sanchez ......................
400
M ejia ....................... ... 320

Amount.
$ .65
2.55
2.00

Fourness.. ....................
260
San Jose ........................ 3000
Michelena...................... 450
Montezu ma ................. .....3750
Union .......................... 2900
Sunflower ................... 400
Graham ........................
962
Central ......................... 2675
Oregon......................... 1100
Smithville ................... 1760
Bryce .......................... 515
Dodge...
...................
450
Nevada .........................
800
Curtis............... ..........
800
Kempton .......................
850
Reid ...........................
100
Ft. Thomas .....................
960
Thompson ......................
240
Military.. ...................
400
Saline............. ..........
36
Zeckendorf .....................
500

1.65
19.00
2.85
23.75
18.35
2.55
6.10
16.95
6.95
11.15
3.25
2.85
5.05
5.05
5.40
.65
6.10
1.50
2.50
.20
3.15

Total acres ................. 23,728 Total ain't $150.20
And the said parties shall pay said proportionate sum into the office
of the clerk of this court for th. use of the said commissioner on the
first day of each and every month.
And it is ,further ordered and decreed that the gates of the water
users in arwrs of payments to said commissioner in accordance with
the foregoing provisions may be kept closed by said water commissioner until said arrears are paid and satisfied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

We premise that the Montezuma Canal Company and
the defendant, individuals and canal companies in action
No. 505, whether viewed as appropriators of water or as
mere carriers for others, sufficiently represented the users
of the waters of the respective canals to cause such waterusers to be bound by the judgment. Tenem Ditch Co. v.
Thorpe, 1 Washington, 566; Arroyo Ditch & Water Co.
v. Baldwin, 155 California, 280; 100 Pac. Rep. 874.
The portions of the tabular statement annexed to the
decree with which we are now concerned relate to the
distribution of water adjudged as between the Montezuma
Canal and the canals above the head of the Montezuma.
Although, as against the appropriators of water served
by the San Jose Canal and the Michelena Ditch the
Montezuma Company by the terms of the decree in acIt is further ordered and decreed that in the case of each incorporated company, party hereto, that is operating a canal or ditch the
pro rata portion of the said cormissioner's compensation falling due
from the acreage of the water users of such canal shall be a charge
against the canal company and shall be paid~by proper officer of such
company to the clerk of this court on the first day of each month, for
the account of said commissioner, and the said officer of the said canal
company is hereby authorized to close the gates of water users, under
the canal operated by said canal company, who may at any time be in
arrears for more than sixty days in the payment of the pro rata share
of said commissioner's compensation due from the acreage owned or
controlled -by said water users, and the said officer is hereby ordered
and required to close the gates of the said canal at any time the said
canal company may be in arrears of payment, for more than sixty
days, to the clerk of this court of the pro rata part of the compensation
due from the acreage irrigated under the said canal, and to keep such
gate closed and. the flow of water through said canal arrested until
said arrearage is paid in full and the commissioner is hereby authorized to superintend such closing of the gate and arrest of flow and to
see that the same is done in accordance with provisions of this decree.
The parties herein each pay their own cost and the court cost common
to all parties necessarily incurred herein is adjudged against all the
parties hereto in the same proportion as the salary of the commissioner
has been apportioned herein.

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 383
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion No. 505 "had the right and was entitled to have
flow into the Montezuma Canal continuously from the
Gila River at all times during the dry season of the year
when water is low a:nd scarce in said river, 1,000 miner's
inches of water," these provisions were disregarded in the
distribution of water ordered in this case. This plainly
appears when it is considered that by the decree the following allowances were made to the San Jose and Michelena Canals; when, if the rights conferred upon the Montezuma Canal by the decree pleaded as res judicata had been
respected, no allowances whatever at the stated stages
of water could have been recognized as existing in the
San Jose and Michelena Canals, viz., 120 inches when
the surface flow at the head of the irrigation system is
400 inches, 320 inches when the surface flow is 750 inches,
480 inches when the surface flow is 1,000 inches, and 600
inches when the flow is 1,500 inches, with an allowance
also to the Mejia Canal in the latter event of 30
inches.
While the findings do not establish the reasons which
led to these allowances contrary to the decree which was
pleaded as res judicata, there is room for conjecture that
the deductions from the Montezuma and the allowances
to the San Jose and Michelena Canals contrary to the
decree were made for the following reasons: a, As it was
found that in 1875 Ellsworth and others had appropriated
water for the irrigation of three hundred acres of land,
and were diverting the same through the San Jose Canal,
and the date of this appropriation was prior to some of
the appropriations served through the Montezuma Canal,,
it was considered that this priority should be regarded
in the distribution, even if to do so would conflict with
the prior judgment in favor of the Montezuma Canal;
and b, Because the share which was given to the Michelena
Canal out of the allowances made contrary to the prior
judgment in favor of the Montezuma Canal was presum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

ably so given to the Michelena Canal, in' order to comply with the terms of the judgment in action No. 797, referred to in Finding XII, which establish an equality of
rights in the water between the Stan Jose and the Michelena Canals. But if this be the theory upon which the
court considered it was justified in disregarding the prior
judgment, its action was erroneous. This was so, because
the rights of the appropriators to the water carried through
the Montezuma. Canal as against appropriators of water
diverted by the San Jose Canal were adjudicated as late
as 1897 by the decree which was pleaded as res judicata,
and as no facts were stated by the court which served
to take the. appropriations of water made by Ellsworth
and others in 1875 out of the operation of the judgment
of 1897, we can perceive no reason why the fact that appropriations were made in 1875 by Ellsworth et al. justified
a disregard of the rights which the judgment of 1897 established in favor of the Montezuma Canal.
The remaining contention urged is based upon the
action of the trial court, affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the Territory, in the appointment of a water comnmissioner to make distribution of the waters of the Gila River
pursuant to the apportionment adjudicated by the decree,
and imposing upon the Montezuma Company a liability
to pay its pro rata share of the salary of the commissioner
as fixed by the decree. The Supreme Court of the Territory was of the opinion "that it is essential that an officer
of -the court be continuously on the river to regulate the
amount to be diverted under the decree by each canal,
in accordance' with the ever-varying volume of water in
the river,.according to the tabulated statement;" that the
appointment of the commissioner was a proper choice
of a method to carry the decree into effect, and that the
appointment was authorized as well by a section of the
Revised Statutes of the Territory, providing that "the
court shall cause its judgment and decree to be carried

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 385
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

into execution," as by the power which the court possessed
by virtue of its"'"general jurisdiction to provide all necessary means to carry out its judgment and decree."
It would indeed seem that the decree was modeled
upon legislative remedies provided for similar situations
in other.jurisdictions, as the decree and the remedies which
it affords bear a peculiar resemblance to legislative provisions enacted in some of the States where irrigation is
practiced, to* control and regulate the use of water for.
irrigating purposes. See part IV, Wiel's Water Rights
in the Western States, 2d edition, pp. 590 et seq. The
reason for the creation of statutory provisions of this and
kindred character undoubtedly is, as said in Farm Investment Company v. Carpenter, 9 Wyoming, 110, "to be
found in the inability of the ordinary procedure and processes Of the law to meet the necessities pertaining to the
segregation by various individuals or companies of water
from the same stream by separate ditches or canals, and
at different points along its course, under rights by appropriation to so divert and use the water."
But because it was within the legislative power to provide administrative machinery to supervise the common
use of water in a flowing stream by those having a lawful
right'to appropriate the water of that stream for beneficial use, it does not result that the decree entered by the
court below was in excess of its authority. On the contrary, in view of the absence of legislative action on the
subject and of the~necessity which manifestly existed for
supervising the use of the stream by those having' the
right to take the water in accordance with the decree,
which, undoubtedly to that extent, the court was authorized to render, we think the action taken'by the court
did not transcend the bounds of judicial authority, and
therefore is not justly amenable to the attack made upon
it. It follows from what we have said that error was committed by the court below in refusing to give due effect
VOL. ccxvii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

218 U. S.

to the judgment in action No. 505, which was pleaded as
res judicata by the Montezuma Canal Company.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ROURA v. GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 35.

Argued November 3, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Jurisdiction as to amount in controversy sustained on the facts disclosed in affidavits filed in this court, there being none filed in
ebuttal.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands denying a
petition for registration of title to land on the ground that the petitioner had no legal title thereto under Spanish law, sustained.
Issue in the courts below having been confined solely to the legality of
deeds on which the petitioner sought to register and which those
courts held to have been fraudulently obtained and illegal, the title
could not be registered, on claim of quiet possession subsequent to
the obtaining of those deeds and in regard to which there was no
proof in the record.
8 Philippine Reports, 214, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the right of a claimant to land
in the Philippine Islands to register the title thereto, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. FredericR. Coudert, with whom Mr. Howard Thayer
Kingsbury was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

