OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

218 U. S.

and reversed as to the Benyuard, and it is so ordered.
The case is remanded to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
ERROR 'TOTHE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 2. Submitted October 24, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.
The general rule of the common law is that a judgment in a criminal
proceeding cannot be read in evidence in a civil action to establish
any fact there determined. The parties are not the same and different rules of evidence are applicable.
Identity of parties will not always operate to make a judgment in a
criminal action admissible in a civil action; there must be identity
of issue, Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178, although as held in
Coffey v. United States, 116 U. S.436, when the facts are ascertained
in a criminal case as *between the United States and the defendant
they cannot be again litigated as between him and the United States
as the basis of any statutory punishment denounced as a consequence of the existence of the facts.
In a case coming from the ,Philippine Islands, however, this court will
not apply.the common-law rule as to effect to be given in a subsequent civil case to a judgment in a criminal case, but will consider
only whether the local law of the Philippine Islands has been rightly
applied.
The local law in the Philippine Islands, which is still in force, not having been suspended by legislation, is that indemnity for damages in
penal cases is a consequence -of the commission of the crime and a
verdict of acquittal carries with it exemption from civil liability.
This rule applies even against one who in the criminal action attempted to reserve his rights to bring a civil action.

THE facts, which involve the right of recovery in the
Philippine Islands of damages caused by alleged crimi-

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

nal acts -of defendant, in a civil action after the defendant's acquittal in a criminal action, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. W. A. Kincaid,
Mr. Alexander Britton, and Mr. Evans Browne were on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
There was no determination in the criminal action of
the matter in controversy in this action such as to warrant the application of the principle of res judicata. A
judgment in a criminal action is not evidence in a civil
action to support the defense of former adjudication, even
though both actions involve the same subject-matter or
transaction. Greenleaf on 'Evidence, §537; Jones odi
Evidence, § 589, p. 745; 1 Wharton on Evidence, § 776;
Herman on Estoppel, §413; 2 Black on Judgments,
§529; 1 Freeman on Judgments, §319. Such has been
the rule in England from an early day, and it has always
been the law in this country. King v. Boston, 4 East.
572; Jones v. White, 1 Strange, 67; Buller's Nisi Prius,
233; Petriev. Nuttall, 11 Excheq. Rep. 569; Justice v. Gosling, 12 C. B. 39-44; Cottingham v. Weeks, 54 Georgia,
275; Marceau v. Travelers' Insurance Co., 101 California,
338; Burke v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 34 California, 60-62;
Cluff v., Insurance Co., 99 Massachusetts, 317; Morch v.
Raubitschek, 159 Pa. St. 559; Betts v. New Hartford, 25
Connecticut, 180; Corbley v. Wilson, 71 Illinois, 209; Johnson v. Girdwood, 143 N. Y. 660; Chamberlain v. Pierson, 87 Fed. Rep. 420-424; Dyer County v. Railroad"Co.,
87 Tennessee, 712; United States v. Jaedicke, 73 Fed. Rep.
100; Van Hoffman v. Kendall, 17 N. Y. Supp. 713; United •
States v. Schneider, 35 Fed. Rep. 107; McDonald v.
Starke, 176 Illinois, 456.
There are many other cases in which the principle has
been applied. Gray v. McDonald, 104 Missouri, 303, 309;
Wilson v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 20 N. Y. Supp. 852; Skid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

218 U. S.

more v. Bricker, 77 Illinois, 164; Tumlin v. Parrott, 82
Georgia, 732-735; Sibley v. St. Paul F. & M. Ins. Co.,
9 Biss. 31; State v. Carron,-73 N. H. 434.
A judgment in a criminal prosecution does not support
the plea of res judicata in a civil action. Frierson v.
Jenkins, 72 S. Car. 341; see also Britton v. State, 77 Alabama) 202, 209; State v. Bradnack, 69 Connecticut, 212,
214, 215; People v. Kenyon, 93 Michigan, 19, and note in
5 Am. & Eng. Anno. Cases, pp. 78-80; Stone v. United
States, 167 U. S. 178, distinguishing Coffey v. United States,
116 U. S. 436, 444, and Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246;
Commonwealth v. Feldman, 131 Massachusetts, 588; Cooper
v. Commonwealth, 106 Kentucky, 909.
The action is to recover a forfeiture which would have
been part of the penalty imposed in the former criminal
proceeding, and is between the same parties; the previous
acquittal in the criminal action is a bar. State v. Meek,
112 Iowa, 338; United States v. Butler, 38 Fed. Rep. 498499; State v. Adams, 72 Vermont, 253; Commonwealth v.
Ellis, 160 Massachusetts, 165, do not apply.
Even where both actions are of the same nature, the
principle of res judicata requires that there shall be
identity of parties, either in fact or in privity of interest,
as well as identity of the matter at issue. Robins v.
Chicago, 4 Wall. 657, 672; Amer. Bell Tel. Co. v. National
Telephone Co., 27 Fed. Rep. 657; Frank v. Wedderin, 68
Fed. Rep. 818; Weller v. Hershey, 89 Fed. Rep. 575;
Houke v. Cooper, 108 Fed. Rep. 992; Litchfield v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 549; Wilgus v. Germain, 72 Fed. Rep. 773,
775; Hall v. Finch, 106 U. S. 261; Stryker v. Goodnow, 123
Fed. Rep. 527; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States,
168 U. S. 48; Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606, 608; Last
Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683,
688; New Orleans v. Citizens' National Bank, 167 U. S.
371; Pacific Railway v. United States, 183 U. S. 519, 528;
Greenleaf on Evidence, § 523; Lovejoy v. Murray. 3 Wall.

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1, 10; see article 1252 of the Civil Code of the Philippine
Islands; Gaines v. Hennen, 24 How. 553; Art. 105 of the
Law of Criminal Procedure; § 107 of General Order No. 58,
issued April 23, 1900; Act No. 190, §§ 306, 307, United
States Philippine Commission in 1901; §§ 1908, 1911 of
the Code of Civil Procedure of California and see Tanguinlay v. Quinos, 10 Philippine Rep. 360; Merchttnt v.
International Bank, 9 Philippine Rep. 554; O'Connell v.
Maygua, 8 Philippine Rep. 422.
The provisions seem to be in entire accord with the general rule on the subject as established by the decisions of
this court.. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 356;
Fayrweatherv. Rich, 195 U. S. 276, 299.
There was no brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands to review a judgment affirming a
judgment :of the court of the first instance in favor of
the defendant.
The action was to recover indemnification of damages
for the destruction of a storehouse and a stock of merchandise therein, valued at $58,473.49,Mexican, which the
complaint alleged was "burned maliciously or unlawfully
by Eduardo Abaroa," the defendant to the complaint, and
defendant in error here.
The defense was, first, a general denial, and second,
that the defendant, in a criminal action for the same
burning and damage alleged, had been acquitted and
held not guilty of the malicious burning now alleged, and
in consequence of such judgment was not liable in a civil
action for any damage to the plaintiff. The judgment
in the criminal proceeding refered to was in these words:
"The evidence introduced by the prosecution indicates

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

that the defendant might have been the author of the
crime, but it is not conclusive.. All persons charged with
crime are presumed to be innocent until they are proven
otherwise. There being in my mind some doubt as to the
guilt of the defendant, I should and do hereby acquit him,
with the costs of these proceedings de oficio, and the attachment heretofore levied on his property is hereby vacated, reserving to the complaining witness whatever right
he may have to bring a civil action against the said Eduardo ,Abaroa."
Upon a final hearing upon all of the proofs the court
of first instance adjudged that the cause of. action alleged and proved was one arising from the criminal act
which was the subject of the former criminal proceeding;
and that the defendant having been acquitted in the
criminal action was not civilly liable. This judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
upon an elaborate opinion.
We have not had the benefit of either brief or argument for the defendant in this writ of error, but have
found much assistance in the opinions of each of the
Philippine courts, as well from very helpful briefs filed
by learned counsel for the plaintiff in error. The contention which has been very forcibly pressed is that the
judgment of acquittal in the criminal action does not operate as a bar to a subsequent civil action for indemnification of damages resulting from the same malicious or unlawful burning of the house and goods of the plaintiff,
which was charged in the criminal action.
The proposition upon which the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands grounded its judgment affirming that
of the lower court in favor of the defendant Abaroa was,
"That it has not been alleged or shown by the plaintiffs,
as a cause of action instituted civilly against the defendant, that the aforesaid fire was caused through any fault
or negligence on the part of the defendant, nor is there.

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shown any motive or cause distinct from that act, the
subject of the case 'already terminated in accordance
with the provisions of articles 1093, 1902 and 1903 of the
Civil Code;" and second, that one who is not criminally
responsible for a crime or misdemeanor cannot be made
civilly responsible for the crime of which he has been acquitted.
The general rule of the common law is that a judgment
in a criminal proceeding cannot be read in evidence in a
civil action to establish any fact there determined. The
reason for this rule is, primarily, that the parties are not
the same, and, secondarily, that different rules of evidence are applicable. In the old case of Jones v. White,
1 Strange, 67-68, Eyre, J., said, "'If a verdict be given in
evidence, it must be between the same parties; and thereforean indictment, which is at the suit of the King, cannot
be read in an action which is at the suit of the party."
The requisite of mutual estoppel is essential to make a
judgment in one action obligatory in another, although
the point in issue is the same in each case. Unless the
parties are the same the matter is res inter alios. Buller's
Nisi Prius, 233; Wharton's Law of Evidence, vol. 1, § 776;
Dyer v. Railroad, 87 Tennessee, 712.
Neither will identity of parties always operate to make
a judgment in a criminal action admissible in evidence'
in a civil action. There must be identity of issue. Thus
in Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178, 187, Stone was
sued by the United States to recover the value of timber
alleged to have been cut by him from public lands. . He
had been theretofore indicted, tried and acquitted for
unlawfully cutting the same timber from the public lands,
and plead this judgment as a bar to a suit for civil liability. This was held to be no defense, and Coffey's Case,
116 U. S.436, distinguished as having been placed upon
the ground "that the facts ascertained in a criminal case,
as between the United States and the claimant, could
VOL. ccxvIII-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

not be again litigated between them, as the basis of any
statutory punishment denounced as a consequence of the
existence of the facts." With respect to the application
of Coffey's case, Mr. Justice Harlan, for the court,
said:
"In the present case the action against Stone is purely
civil. It depends entirely upon the ownership of certain
personal property. The rule established in Coffey's case
can have no application in a civil case not involving any
question of criminal intent or of forfeiture for prohibited
acts, but turning wholly upon an issue as to the ownership of property. In the criminal case the Government
sought to punish a criminal offense, while in the civil
case it only seeks, in its capacity as owner of property,
illegally converted, to recover its value. In the criminal
case his acquittal may have been due to the fact that the
Government failed "to show, beyond a reasonable doubt,
the existence of some fact essential to establish the offense
charged, while the same evidence in a civil action 'brought
to recover the value of the property illegally converted
might have been sufficient to entitle the Government to
a verdict. Not only was a greater degree of proof requisite to support the indictment than is sufficient to sustain a civil action; but an essential fact had to be proved
in the criminal case, which was not necessary to be proved
in the present suit. In order to convict the defendant
upon the indictment for unlawfully, wilfully and feloniously cutting and removing timber from lands of the
United States, it was necessary to prove a cJriminal intent on his part, or, at least, that he knew the timber to
be the property of the United States. Regina v. Cohen,
8 Cox C. C. 41; Regina v. James, 8 Car. & P. 131; United
States v. Pierce, 2 McLean, 14; Cutter v. State, 36 N. J.
Law, 125, 126. But the present action for the conversion
of the timber would be supported by proof that it was in
fact thc property of the United States, whether the de-

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

fendant knew that fact or not. Woodenware Co. v. United
States, 106 U. S. 432. An honest mistake of the defendant as to his title in the property would be a defense to
the indictment, but not to the civil action. Broom's Leg.
Max. (5th ed.) 366, 367. It cannot be said that any fact
was conclusively established in the criminal case, except
that the defendant was not guilty of the public offense
with which he was charged. We cannot agree that the
failure or inability of the United States to prove in the
criminal case that the defendant had been guilty of a
crime, either forfeited its right of property in the timber
or its right in this civil action, upon a preponderance of
proof, to recover the value of such property."
There are peculiarities about the character of the action now under consideration which, as will appear later,
may bring it under the principles of Coffey v. United States,
supra, rather than Stone v. United States, the indemnification here sought being a part of the punishment attached
to the offense of which the defendant has been acquitted.
The case is, however, one which we conceive must be
governed by the local law of the Philippine Islands, and
the single question to which we need address ourselves is
as to whether that law was rightly applied by the local
tribunals.
Article 1902 of the Civil Code in force in the Philippine Islands. reads thus: "A person who by an act or
omission causes damage to'another when there is fault
or negligence, shall be obliged to repair the damage so
done." By §§ 1092 and 1093 of the same code provision is
made for the enforcement of civil liability, varying in
character according to the origin of the liability. Thus,
§ 1092 provides that civil obligations arising from crimes
and misdemeanors shall be governed by the provisions
of the Penal Code. On the other hand, § 1093 provides
that, "Those arising from acts or omissions, in which
faults or negligence, not punished by law, occurs, shall

OCTOBER TERM,- 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

be subject to the provisions of Chapter second of Title
sixteen of this book." The action here involved comes
directly under § 1092 above set out, and is not an action
arising from "fault or negligence, not punished by law."
The complaint alleges that th6 act of burning was "malicious and unlawful," and not that it was the result of
any "fault or negligence." This was the construction
placed upon the complaint by both the courts below, and
is a construction not challenged here. It follows that we
must turn to the Penal Code to discover when a civil
action arises out of a crime or misdemeanor, and the
procedure for the enforcement of such civil liability. Article 17 of the Penal Code reads as follows: "Every person criminally liable for a crime or misdemeanor is also
civilly liable." May this civil liability be enforced without a prior legal 'determination of the fact of the defendant's guilt of crime? Does civil liability exist at all if
the defendant has been found not guilty of the acts out
of which the civil liability arises? The opinion of the
court below was that a judgment of conviction was essential to an action for indemnification under the applicable local law. To this conclusion we assent, upon the
following considerations:
First, by the positive legislation of the Philippine Codes,
civil and criminal, a distinction is drawn between a civil
liability- which results from the mere negligence of the
defendant and a liability for the civil consequences of a
crime by which another has sustained loss or injury.
Second, the plain inference from Article 17, above set
out, is that civil liability springs out of and is dependent
upon facts which if true would constitute a crime or misdemeanor.
Third, the Philippine Code of Procedure plainly contemplates that the civil liability of the defendant shall
be ascertain ed and declared in the criminal proceedings.
Thus § 742 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, after

CHANTANGCO v. ABAROA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

requiring that in a criminal proceeding all of the minor
or incidental offenses included in the principal crime shall
be decided, adds: "All questions relating to the civil
liability which may have been the subject matter of the
charge shall be decided in the sentence."
By § 108 of the same code the prosecuting official is
required to prosecute the right of the injured person to
restitution or indemnity, unless such person renounces
the right.
By § 112 of the same code the civil action is held to be
part of the criminal action, "unless the person injured or
prejudiced renounces the same or expressly reserves the
right to institute it after the conclusion of the criminal
action."
In United States v. Catequista, 1 Philippine Rep. 537,
538, the court below failed to determine the liability of
the. defendant to indemnify the person injured by the
misdemeanor of which he had been convicted. Concerning this, Ladd, J., for the court, said:
"The court also erred in not determining in the judgment the civil liability of the defendant for the daflos and
prejuicis, which resulted from the criminal act. Such
civil liability is a necessary consequence of criminal responsibility, (Penal Code, article 17,) and it is to be declared and enforced in the criminal proceeding, except
where the injured party reserves his right to avail himself of it in a distinct civil action. Code of Oriminal Procedure of Spain, article 112, Provisional Law for the Application of the Penal Code in the Philippines, article 51,
No. 4. No such waiver or reservation is disclosed by the
record here."
It is true that one of the plaintiffs in the present case
reserved whatever right he may have had to bring a civil
action. This was obviously of np avail, inasmuch as
there resulted a judgment for the defendant, and the
plain inference from the foregoing is that a verdict of ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

quittal must carry with it exemption from civil responsibility.

The effect of the application of the substantive law of
the Philippine Islands given by the .court below, not only
in the present case but in the prior cases cited above, accords with the interpretation of identical provisions in
the law of Spain by the Supreme Court of that kingdom,
as shown by citations from the Spanish Supreme Court
Reports. Some of these we have not been able to verify.
We have, however, examined the decision of that court
cited as of January 3, 1877. In that case the defendant
had been tried and acquitted upon a criminal complaint.
Notwithstanding this result, the trial court gave a judgment indemnifying the injured person for a loss supposed
to have been suffered by him as a consequence of the
crime of which the defendant had been acquitted. This
judgment was annulled. Upon this point the court, in
substance, said that indemnity for damages in penal
cases was a consequence of the commission of a crime.
The defendant was, therefore, not liable civilly, inasmuch
as he had been found not liable criminally.
The foregoing considerations eliminate any question of
the effect of such a judgment of acquittal under the principles of the common law, and require an affirmance of
the judgment of the court below as properly based upon
the applicable substantive law of the Philippine Islands,
which has not been superseded by legislation since the
establishment of the present Philippine Government.
Judgment affirmed.

