WETMORE v. TENNESSEE COPPER CO.
Counsel for Parties.

218 U. S.

we have no occasion at this time to express an opinion.

Still less do we. say .that the plaintiffs have not an efficient remedy in some court either 'against the defendant
corporation, or against the several individuals who, under its sanction, or by its authority, are maintaining in
Tennessee the nuisance complained of.. We only mean
to say-and cannot properly go further in this case-.
that the statute in question does not cover this particular case, and that the United States Circuit Court,
sitting in Tennessee-the New Jersey company refusing
to voluntarily appear in the suit as a defendant-is without jurisdiction to give the plaintiffs,' citizens of New York
and West Virginia, the particular relief asked against
that corporation.
The bill was properly. -dismissed for want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court and the decree below is
Affirmed.

WETMORE vy TENNESSEE COPPER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 500.

Motion to dismiss appeal. Submitted October 11,. 1910.Decided November 28, 1910.

Ladew v. Tennessee Copper Company, ante, p. 357, followed to effect
that the Circuit Court of the United States did not have jurisdiction
of this case.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Seymour for appellant.
VOL. CCXVIII-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Mr. Howard Cornick, Mr. John H. Frantz and Mr. Martin Vogel for. appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, George Peabody Wetmore, a citizen of
Rhode Island, is the owner in fee and in possession of
large tracts of land, valuable for timber, farming and
residence purposes, in Polk County, Eastern District of
Tennessee. The defendants are the same corporations
as those mentioned in Ladew &c. v. Tennessee Copper Co.,
decided, ante, p. 357.
The plaintiff, after setting out substantially the same
facts as those stated in the Ladew case in reference to
the conduct by each defendant of its business and to the
injury- done to his lands by the mode in which that business is conducted, seeks the same relief as to his lands
.in Tennessee as that asked by the plaintiffs in the other
case as t6 their lands in Georgia. Each defendant appeared-specially-the defendant, Tennessee Copper Company, for the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in Tennessee, to give the relief asked by the bill against it, and the
British corporation for theL purpose of moving to dismiss
the bill because of misjoinder of parties,. an, because of
want of jurisdiction in that court to sustain an action
against it in Tennessee for the wrong alleged to have been
done to the present plaintiffs.
The Circuit Court disipissed the bill as to tne"Tennessee Copper Company, but overruled the motion to dismiss the bill as to the British corporation, the court being
of the opinion that it had jurisdiction of the latter corporation.. From that decree, so f~r as it related to the
Tennessee Copper Company, Wetmore appea ed to this
court. In conformity with ยง 5 of the act of Congress
.of MIarch"3, 1891; c. 517, 26 Stat. 826. th' ,uestion of

MONTEZUMA CANAL v. SMITHVILLE CANAL. 371
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

jurisdiction wai. certified by the Circuit Court to this
court.

On the authority of Ladew v. Tennessee Copper Compaay, ante, p. 357, the decree of the court below must be
affirmed.
It is so ordered.

MONTEZUMA CANAL COMPANY v. SMITHVILLE
CANAL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 1. Argued October 21, 24, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Where the trial court makes findings of facts and states conclusions
of law thereon but certifies no rulings in respect of evidence, and
the Supreme Court of the Territory enters a general judgment of
affirmance, manifestly based upon the correctness of such findings
of fact, they furnish a sufficient statement for the appeal; and, in
this court, the question is whether they are sufficient to support
the decree.- Stringfellow v. Cain, 99.U. S. 610.
Notwithstanding there may have been a prior appropriation of water,
if the rights of appropriators were adjudicated in a suit of which the
parties had notice, the judgment in that suit may be pleaded as rec
judicata in a subsequent suit to determine the rights of appropriators, and the amount awarded to an appropriator by judgment in
the first suit cannot be reduced.
The 'fact that it is within the legislative power to provide administrative machinery to supervise the common use of water, does not
render invalid the decree of a court providing such machinery to
carry out a particular decree if the court deems it necessary and
proper so to do.
As the laws of Arizona authorize the Supreme Court to cause its
judgments to be carried into execution, that court does not transcend its authority in appointing a commissioner to supervise the

