RANKIN v. EMIGH.
218 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

RANKIN, RECEIVER OF THE BERLIN
NATIONAL BANK, v. EMIGH. 1
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 144.

Argued April 15, 18, 1910.-Decded May 31, 1910.

On error to a state court of last resort in a case involying the liability
of a national bank under a contract, the findings of fact of the state
court are binding on this court, and only the Federal' question as
to the effect of the facts found can be passed -on.
Although restitution of property obtained under a contract which is
illegal because ultra vires, cannot be adjudged by force of the illegal
contract, the courts will compel restitution of property of another obtained without authority of law; and, although the contract under
which a national bank obtains money from an innocent third party
may be uitru vires under Rev. Stat., §§ 5133-5136, the bank may
be required to return the money so received to the party entitled
thereto. Citizens' Central National Bank v. Appleton, Receiver, 216
U. S. 196.
In this case, even if the purchase and carrying on of a mercantile company by a national bank was illegal, the persons dealing with the
mercantile company were entitled to receive the money paid into the
bank for their account.
134 Wisconsin, 565, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of a national
bank under a contract claimed by the receiver to be ultra
vires, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rufus S. Simmons, with whom Mr. Frank J. R.
Mitchell and Mr. S. C. Irving were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

Mr. J. C. Thompson, with whom Mr., E. F. Kileen was
on the brief,, for defendants in error.
Original docket title Eailing, Receiver, &c: v,.Emigh.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

218 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

To reverse a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin (134 Wisconsin, 565), affirming a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Green Lake County, this writ of error is
prosecuted.
The Berlin National Bank, doing business in the city of
Berlin, Green Lake County, Wisconsin, being insolvent,
its doors were closed by the Comptroller of the Currency
on November 17, 1904. P. R. Earling was subsequently
appointed and qualified as receiver. On November 27,
1906, John Emigh and 0. L. Atkins, as assignees of a large
number of persons, commenced this action in the state
court against the receiver and the bank. It was, in substance, averred that large quantities of milk had been
furnished by the assignors of the plaintiffs to a creamery
known as the Jenne Creamery Company, under agreements that all the milk supplied should be converted into
butter, the butter sold, and the proceeds, less a sum agreed
upon as a compensation for the services rendered, should
be divided pro rata among those furnishing the milk. It
was alleged that the creamery, during the period covered
by the claim, was, in fact, owned by and had been operated
by the bank, and that when the doors of the bank were
closed there were outstanding unpaid checks for about
$400, for collections made for account of those who had
supplied milk between April and September, 1904, and
that a large amount had been collected and not paid over
for the proceeds of butter made from milk furnished during October and the first half of November, 1904. The
prayer was that plaintiffs recover from the receiver such
portion of thg collections as had come into the hands of.
the receiver, and as to the prbceeds which had been
diverted by the bank, that plaintiffs be recognized as
general creditors, entitled to participate pro rata in the

RANKIN v. EMIGH.
218 U. S.

29

Opinion of the Court.

distribution of the assets of the bank. - The defendants
separately answered, and, except as to the allegations
regarding the incorporation of the bank, its insolvency
and the appointment of a receiver, took issue upon the
averments of the complaint.
The cause was tried by the court. The facts, as found,
are thus summarized:
For some time prior to October 1, 1902, the Jenne
Creamery Company, a Wisconsin corporation, having its
principal place of business in the city of Berlin, carried on
the business of making butter and other dairy products
with milk furnished by patrons in Green Lake and other
counties. The corporation for these purposes, besides
operating its plant at Berlin, leased various other creamery
plants in the vicinity. At' one time the business was
carried on by a firm known as D. J. Jenne & Company,
and after the organization of the Jenne Creamery Company the creamery business was solely carried on by that
corporation, the members of the firm of Jenne &Company,
however, owning all the stock of the creamery company.
The milk which the company separated was furnished by
numerous producers under agreements by which, for a
stated compensation, the creamery company agreed to
make all the milk it received into butter, to sell the same,
collect the Proceeds, and to divide them pro rata among
the milk owners less the compensation agreed upon. The
business did not prosper. On October 1, 1902, there were
outstanding unpaid checks of the company, drawn on the
Berlin bank in favor of milk producers, to the extent of
about $8,000, there being no funds on hand to the credit
of the creamery company in the bank available to pay
the checks. On the same date one of the firm of D. J.
Jenne & Company owed the bank $2,200, which was
jinsecured, and besides was indebted to other creditors
for at least $2,600. The firm of D. J. Jenne & Company
also owed the bank $5,000. Evidently in contemplation

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of securing the payment of these various debts and to
prevent the loss which would be occasioned by the bankruptcy of the creamery company, and upon the expectation that the situation might be relieved by carrying on
the business under a new management, an arrangement
was made between the Jennes and the Berlin bank. By.
this arrangement the entire stock of the creamery was
assigned to Brown, the cashier of the bank, and two other
officers of the bank, who, while thus becoming in form
the owners of the stock, really held it for account of the
bank. The property of the partnership of Jenne & Company and the property of the individual members of the
firn was transferred to Brown. In order to bring about
these transfers the bank agreed to pay the outstanding
checks drawn against it by the creamery company in favor
of milk producers. Under the arrangement the business
continued to be carried\ on in the name of the Jenne
Creamery Company, althbugh from the facts which we
have just stated it is apparent, as said by the Supreme
Court of Wisconsih, "that the use of Brown's name was
only formal, and that the continuance in form of the
corporation was only for convenience of bookkeeping and
dealing with the patrons." Brown acted as manager of
the business apparently for the creamery company, signing and endorsing checks in the name of that corporation
as such manager, etc.
The producers of milk were not parties to the transfer
made by the Jennes to the bank. No formal notification
to them was given of the fact that the bank in effect
owned the stock of -the corporation and was virtually
carrying on the business, no new contracts were made
with them in the name of the bank as the owner of the
creamery, but, so far as they were concerned, the affairs
of the creamery company were, in form, conducted as
*they had been previously carried on, the producers continuing without interruption to furnish their milk as they

RANKIN v. EMIGH.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had been in the habit of doing under, the agreements
previously made.
The operation-of the business after the transfer was not
profitable. The bank realized a few thousand dollars
from the sale of the individual property of Jenne, butwhen the bank ceased to do business, in November, 1904,
the account of the creamery company was apparently
exhausted, anl the bank had not recouped itself for the
payments made of the $8,000 of checks outstanding in
October, 1902. *esides, when the bank failed there was
outstanding checks for $406.97, issued between April and
October, 1904, and no settlement had been made with
those who had.supplied milk during the month of October
and part of November, 1904, prior to the suspension of
the bank. Referring to ,the proceeds of the butter made
from the milk delivered-by the patrons of the creamery.
during October and November, 1904, the trial court, as
stated by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, found "that
bank drafts -had been received into the bank for such
butter. Such drafts ran to the Jenne Creamery Company,
und were' endorsed by Brown, the cashier, and mingled
with other moneys of the bank. The total amount was
$2,520.46. It was found by the court, upon careful
analysis of the accounts, that at all times after the receipt
of any of said drafts the bank had on hand an amount of
money and cash items exceeding said total, and such an
amount was turned over to the receiver upon his taking
possession. It also traced a considerable share of said
drafts into the hands of the bank's correspoindents at
other'cities, by which they had been collected and credited
to the bank, and in each case it was found that there remained a credit account with that correspondent larger
than the amount of such drafts sent to and collected by
it, which credit balance was turned over to the receiver
after his appointment."
Upon the facts by it found the trial court adjudged that

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

21,5 U. S.

$2,520.46 should be paid to the plaintiffs out of the funds
in the hands of the receiver, and that as to the sum of the
outstanding checks given for the proceeds of butter sold
prior to October, 1904, the plaintiffs were entitled to
participate pro rata with the other general creditors in
the distribution of the assets of the bank. As already
stated, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin affirmed the
judgment.
The Federal question relied on is in substance that the
Berlin bank, as a national bank, had no power to operate
a creamery, and could not, therefore, lawfully incur liability on account of such operation, and hence the judgment of the state court is repugnant to the following
,sections of the Revised Statutes: 5133 and 5136, which prohibit a national banking association from doing other than
a banking business; 5134 and 5190, which prohibit such
an association from transacting the business of a bank in
any other place than where its banking house is located
and that specified in its organization certificate; 5145,
which requires the affairs of such association to 'be managed by not less than five directors; and 5236 and 5242,
which require ratable dividends and prohibit all transfers
with a view to preference. It is true that there are other
assignments of alleged error, but we put them at once out
of view, as they in substance but assert that the court
below erred in affirming the judgment of the trial court
because certain of the facts found were not sustained by
the evidence, contentions which are not open to our inquiry, as it is elementary that on error to a state court of
last resort in a case (if this character the findings of fact
of the state court are binding on us.
The trial court found, as a fact, that after the transfer
of the creamery property in October, 1902, some of the
patrons were informed that the officers and directors of
the bank were individually interested in the creamery,
but that they were acting for the bank was not made

RANKIN v. EMIGH.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

known, and it was also represented to such patrons that
the creamery was in better condition than ever before,
and such was generally believed by the patrons to be a
true statement of the condition of affairs until after the
failure of the defendant bank. The Supreme Court, however, evidently, did not consider these circumstances.
material. It held that whatever the form of the transaction, the Berlin bank acquired the creamery property
from the Jenne Creamery Company in October, 1902,
that it operated the same thereafter until the. bank ceased
doing business, that it "took the milk furnished by the
patrons, made the same into butter and sold it and collected the proceeds;" and that by virtue of the agreements under which the milk was furnished the proceeds
of the sale of butter "belonged to the patrons and was
received by the bank for them and under a duty to pay
it to them." It also decided that when the bank failed
on demand to pay over the collections for the butter sold
prior to October, 1904, represented by outstanding
checks, an indebtedness to the owners of the money arose.
From the facts as found by the trial court the Supreme
Court concluded that the receiver had received, in actual
money, or in credits with correspondents, the $2,520.46
belonging to the patrons collected for the butter made
from the milk supplied in October. and November, 1904,
and that the receiver did not receive such sum as moneys
of the bank upon any trust to distribute to the creditors
of the bank, but held it as trustee for the owners. In
declining to consider whether, as contended, it was beyond
the power of the bank to engage in the creamery business,
the court said:
"No authority has been cited, and we think none can
be, to deny the power of a banking corporation, or any
other corporation, to disgorge property of another which
it had got into its possession by any means whatever
under a duty to disgorge. It may have had no legal
VOL. ccxviii-3

OCTOBER TERM, ,1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218

IT.

S.

power to take the steps by which the money of ,these
plaintiffs' assignors came to its hands; but having taken
such steps and obtained their money no such absurdity
exists as a legal obstacle to its surrendering it. It would
be a reproach to J1he law to -hold any such doctrine of
inequity. Beloit v. Heineman, 128 Wisconsin, 398, 401."
As we are bound by the findings of fact made below,
and as the construction which the court gave to the contracts under which the milk was furnished is also binding, since such construction presents no question of a
Federal nature, it follows that all the contentions relied
upon to procure a reversal. of the judgment must rest
upon the assumption that, although the milk was received under contraot- of bailment and the proceeds
arising were the property of the milk producers, and were
held by the bank for them, nevertheless the judgment
was wrong, because the bank, under the national banking
law, exceeded its powers when it virtually acquired the
stock of the creamery and operated the same through its
officero. But when the contentions thus come to. be considered in their ultimate aspect their unsoundness is
demonstrated by the decision rendered at this term in
Citizens' Central National Bank ofNew York v. Appleton,
Receiver of the Cooper Exchange Bank, 216 U. S. 196
We-say this, even conceding, for the sake of the argument, the ultra vires nature of the transaction as contended for. Although it would suffice to refer to that
case as decisive here, in view of the importance of the
subject we briefly advert to the facts of the case to make
apparent how absolutely conclusive the ruling there made
is upon the contention here presented. One Samuel
owed to the Central National Bank $10,000. Evidently
the bank was not only unwilling to lend Samuel more
money, but called upon him to pay off his existing indebtedness. Under these circumstances it was arranged
that if Samuel could borrow $12,000 from the .Coopek

RANKIN v. EMIGH.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Exchange Bank and would use $10,000 of the amount to
pay his debt to the Central National Bank-, that bank
would -guarantee the repayment of the loan if made by
the Cooper Exchange Bank, thus giving Samuel some
further accommodation, and at the same time placing the
Central National Bank in funds to the-extent of its outstanding loan to Samuel. The loan upon the guarantee
was made. Upon the bankruptcy of Samuel and the
failure to pay the loan made by the Cooper Exchange
Bank, the latter bank sued the Central National Bank to
recover under the guarantee. In the state courts, while
ultimately the ultra vired nature of the guarantee was not
denied, recovery was allowed to the extent of the $10,000,
the amount actually received by the Central National
Bank of, the moneys of the Cooper Exchange Bank. This
court, without in any respect questioning that the state
court was correct in holding that the 'contract of guarantee
was ultra vires of the National Bank Act, nevertheless
affirmed the judgment below. Reviewing and commenting upon the rulings in Logan County National Bank v.
Townsend, 139 U. S. 67; Aldrich v. Chemical National
Bank, 176 U. S. 618; Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, and Pullman's Palace Car Co.
v. Central Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138, it was held
although restitution of property obtained under a contract which was illegal, because ultra ires, cannot be
adjudged by force of the illegal contract, yet, as the obli-'
gation to do justice rests upon all persons, natural and
artificial, if one obfains the money or property of others
without authority, the law, independently of express contract, will compel. restitution or compensation. That this
ruling is here applicable isplainly manifested by the fact
which we have previously pointed out that the relief
afforded by the court below simply gave to the producers
so much of their property as was actually in the hands of
the receiver, and awarded them a right to recover as

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

general creditors of the bank to the extent only that their
property had been received and appropriated by the
bank.
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. MELTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 180.. Argued April 28, 29, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.
When a Federal question does exist the writ of error will not be dismissed as frivolous or as foreclosed by former decisions when analysis
of those decisions is necessary, where there has been division of
opinion in the court below, as in this case, and conflict of opinion in
prior decisions as to the point involved.
This court is not concerned with the construction given by a state
court to the statute of another State unless such construction offends
a properly asserted Federal right.
Whether a state court failed to give the full faith and credit required by the Federal Constitution to u statute of another State
because it did not construe it as construed by the courts of the
latter State is not open in this court unless the question is properly
asserted in the state court.
The reiterated assertion in the lower court of Federal right based
solely on one provision of the Federal Constitution is basis for the
inference that no other provision was relied upon.
A question under the Federal Constitution does not necessarily arise
in every case in which the courts of one State are called upon to
construe the statute of another State; the general rule in the ibsence
of statutory provision, is that a settled construction of a statute
relied upon to control the court of another State must be pleaded
and proved, ttd, if not plcttded and proved, the court construing the
statute is not deprived of its independent judgment in regard thereto.

