EAGLE MINING CO. v. HAMILTON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

EAGLE MINING & IMPROVEMENT COMPANY v.
HAMILTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 51.

Submitted November 7, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Under the Territorial Practice Act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat. 27,
the jurisdiction of this court on appeals is limited to the inquiry
whether the findings of fact support the judgment and to a review
of duly taken exceptions and rulings on admission or rejection of
evidence.
Findings of the District Court when adopted by the Supreme Court
of the Territory serve the purpose of the statement of facts required
by the statute.
Rulings on questions of evidence are not properly before this court
when the exceptions thereto do not appear in the record, and, even
though objections to testimony may have been noted, if it does not
appear what the rulings were and whether the testimony was or was
not excluded, this court is confined to determining whether the
findings support the judgment; and in this case the facts found by
the court below unquestionably support the judgment.
14 N. Mex. 271, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Samuel Parker, with whom Mr. George W. Prich*ard and Mr. Archibald G. Graham were on the brief, for
appellant.
'Mr.-James G. Fitch for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of New Mexico in two suits which were
consolidated. The first suit was brought in August, 1903,
VOL. CCXVIi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

in a District Court of the Territory by the appellant,
Eagle Mining and Improvement Company, against the
appellees, the widow and heirs of Humphrey B. Hamilton, deceased, to have it adjudged that the decedent
held a certain undivided interest in mining property in
trust for the appellant, and to compel conveyance. In
November, 1904, the appellees, one of whom was the
administrator of the decedent's estate, brought suit
against the appellant, alleging that Hamilton had rendered services as its attorney in connection with the mining property and otherwise, and that the legal title had
been taken by him pursuant to an agreement, by which
it was to be held as security for the appellant's indebtedness to him; the appellees prayed for foreclosure and recovery of the amount found to be due. The suits were
consolidated and a referee was appointed to take testimony. Hearing was had, and a decree was entered in
favor of appellees, which set forth separately findings of
fact and conclusions of law.
The court found that Hamilton had acquired the legal
title to the undivided one-half interest in question under
an agreement with the appellant, by which he was to
negotiate for the purchase in its behalf and was to surrender a certain equitable claim of lien upon another interest in the property; that in consideration of this surrender
and of his services in acquiring the one-half interest
Hamilton was to receive the difference between an agreed
sum and the amounts to be advanced by the appellant to effect the purchase; that for the payment of
this difference-found to amount to $9,500-Hamilton
was to hold the legal title as security; and that the agreement to this effect was evidenced by writings signed by
Hamilton "and delivered to, accepted and acquiesced
in by the said company."
As a conclusion of law, the court found that the heirs
of Hamilton were entitled to hold the leeal title to the

EAGLE MINING CO. v. HAMILTON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

undivided interest until the payment of $9,500, with interest and costs of suit, had been made to the administrator of Hamilton's estate; that upon such payment
they should convey to the appellant, and that in default
of payment the undivided interest should be sold to
satisfy the indebtedness.
It was further found that Hamilton had been retained
by the appellant as its attorney, and at its request had
rendered legal services from the date of its organization
until his death without express agreement as to the amount
to be paid therefor; that these services were reasonably
worth $9,510.99, upon which, after deducting payments,
there was due $8,419.99. And, as a conclusion of law, the
court held that the administrator was entitled to judg-ment for the last-mentioned sum.
It was decreed accordingly, and from this decree appeal
was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory where
it was affirmed.
The record before us contains the testimony taken before the referee, and the letters and documents which,
in connection with the testimony, he submitted to the
court in his report; and the argument here is directed
largely to the effect of the evidence and to the findings of
the court below as to matters of fact.
But we are not at liberty to review these findings of
fact. We cannot go behind the findings to ascertain
whether they are justified by the evidence. Under the
act of April 7, 1874, chapter 80, 18 Stat. 27, the jurisdl,',on of this court, upon this appeal, is limited to the
inquiry whether the findings of fact made by the court
below support its judgment, and to a review of exceptions
which have been duly taken to rulings upon the admission or rejection of evidence. Stringfellow v. Cain, 99
U. S. 610; Neslin v. Wells, 104 U. S. 428; Idaho & Oregon
Land Company v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509; Haws v. Victoria Copper Mining Company, 160 U. S. 303; Grayson v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Lynch, 163 U. S. 468; Bear Lake Irrigation Company v.
Garland, 164 U. S. 1; Apache County v. Barth, 177 U. S..
538. The findings of the District Court, having been
adopted and affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, serve the purpose of the statement of facts required
by the statute. Stringfellow v. Cain, supra; Neslin v.
Wells, 8upra; Haws v. Victoria Copper Mining Company,
8upra.

Nor are there any rulings upon questions of evidence
which are properly before us for review, for no exceptions
to such rulings appear in the record. When the evidence
was taken before the referee appointed by the District
Court various objections were made and were n6ted upon
the record, but the referee did not attempt to pass upon
the objections and reported to the court the entire proceedings, including the testimony and documents to which
objection had been made. What, if any, rulings were
made by the court upon these objections is not shown.
In the progress of the cause a memorandum of .opinion
was filed by the judge sitting in the District Court, in
which the admissibility of certain testimony, relied upon
by the appellant, was said to be doubtful, but it does not
appear that the testimony was excluded, and as we have
said there are no exceptions which bring up any question
for review with. respect to the admission or rejection of
evidence.
As the facts found by the court below unquestionably
support the judgment, it is
Affirmed.

