HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

573

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

HUNTER v. MUTUAL RESERVE LIFE IN-

SURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 39. Argued November 7, 191.-Decided December 12, 1910.
A few separate and disconnected transactions by a foreign corporation
after its withdrawal from a State, all relating to matters existing before such withdrawal do not constitute doing business in that State
so as to preclude such a corporation from revoking the power of
attorney to accept process given by it to a state officer as required
by statute of the State to enable it to enter and do business in the
State. Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602;
Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147;
Mutual Reserve Ins. Co. v. Birch, 200 U. S. 612; Commercial Mutual
Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U. S. 245, distinguished.
A power of attorney to a state officer to accept process required by
statute to be given by a foreign corporation as a condition for doing
business in the State althugh irrevocable in form, may be revocable,
on the withdrawal of such corporation from the State, as to matters
not connected with business transacted in such State or with residents thereof; and the courts of one State are not required to give
full faith and credit, under the Federal Constitution, to a judgment
of another State against a corporation based on service on a state
officer of that State, in which said corporation had done business but
from which it had in good faith withdrawn after revoking the power
of attorney which it had given to such officer as a condition for doing
business in the State, and where the cause of action did not arise in,
or was not connected with a transaction arising in such State, or in
favor of a citizen thereof.
184 N. Y. 136, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Paul Armitage for plaintiff in error:
A State has the arbitrary power to exclude foreign in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

surance companies altogether from her territory. Hooper
v. California, 155 U. S. 648, 655. The business of insurance is not commerce. The contract of insurance is not
an instrumentality of commerce. Issuing a policy of insurance is not a transaction of commerce. Such contracts
are not interstate transactions though the parties may be
domiciled in different States. They do not constitute a
part of the commerce between the States. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Phila. Fire Association v. New York,
119 U. S.110; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47; Hooper
v. California, 155 U. S.648.
A State has the power, if she allow any such insurance
company to enter her confines, to determine the conditions on which the entry shall be made and the right to
enforce any conditions so imposed. The power to exclude
embraces the power to regulate and the power to enact
and to enforce such regulations.
When a foreign insurance corporation undertakes totransact business in a State other than that in which it is
incorporated, it submits itself to the authority of the
courts of such other State, and is bound, so lbng as that
business continues, by the statutory provisions respecting
the method of such courts obtaining jurisdiction over it.
Pringle v. Woolworth, 90 N. Y. 509; People v. Life Insurance Co., 7 App. Div. 297; Gibbs v. Queens Ins. Co., 63
N. Y. 120. It becomes bound by judgments rendered
upon service on the designated agent, because it has consented so to be bound. Douglass v. Ins. Co., 138 N. Y.
220; Mutual Reserve Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S.147; Gibson
v. Mfg. Ins. Co., 144 Massachusetts, 81; Aldrich v. Blatchford, 175 Massachusetts, 369; Vose v. Cockroft, 44 N. Y.
415; Sherman v. McKeon, 38 N. Y. 266; Phyfe v. Eimer,
45 N. Y. 102. The service on the insurance commissioner
was not effectual. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172
U. S.610; Mutual Reserve Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S.147.
Upon the facts herein, the defendant company con-

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U.S.

575

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tinued to do business in North Carolina, after the attempted revocation of the power of attorney given to the
insurance commissioner, and was actually doing business
within the State on the date when service of process was
made in each of the suits resulting in the four judgments.
Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Phila. Association v. New
York, 119 U. S. 110; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.
47.
The business of insurance is not within the protection
of the commerce clause of the Federal. Constitution. A
foreign insurance corporation has no right to do any part
of its insurance within the borders of a State, except by
its express permission and under the conditions imposed.
It is only when a corporation undertakes to engage in a
local business elsewhere than in the State of its creation
that it comes within the grasp and control of other state
sovereignty. The case of a foreign insurance company is
wholly different. It is not engaged in interstate commerce..
No portion of its business is of that character.
The Court of Appeals held that the defendant insurance company did not continue to do any business within
the State of North Carolina after May 18, 1899, and was
not doing business therein at the time of service of process
in the suits in question, but this was grave error. The
Mutual Reserve Insurance Company continued to do
and was at the time of service of process doing insurance
business within the State and subject to the jurisdiction
of its courts. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S.
602; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S.519; Merchants'
Mfg. Co. v. Railway, 13 -Fed. Rep. 358; Birch v. Mutual
Reserve Ins. Co., 200 U. S.612.
Where an insurance company goes into a State and
makes contracts of insurance, 'it does not cease to do
business simply bedause it withdraws its agents and solicits no new business.
The court of North Carolina had jurisdiction in ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

tions brought against foreign corporations by residents
of that State "for any cause of action." Shields v. Life
Ins. Co., 119 N. C. 380.
The attempted revocation was not effective to revoke
the insurance commissioner's power to receive process in
any lawful action.
Even if it be assumed (arguendo) that the defendant
company in good faith withdrew from North Carolina
and ceased to do any business therein after May 18, 1899,
it was still liable to be sued in the courts of North Carolina in any action or legal proceeding, and the insurance
commissioner was, at the time of the service of process
therein, the agent of the defendant for the purpose of
service in any action or legal proceeding of every nature
of which the courts of North Carolina had jurisdiction.
North Carolina had the right to prescribe such conditions as it saw fit before allowing a foreign corporation
to do business within its borders. Anglo-American Prov.
Co. v. Prov. Co., 169 N. Y. 506, 510; Hooper v. California,
155 U. S. 648; Aldrich v. Blatchford, 175 Massachusetts,
371, and cases cited; Youmans v. Title Ins. Co., 67 Fed.
Rep. 282; Johnson v. Ins. Co., 132 Massachusetts, 432;
Wilson v. FireAlarm Co., 149 Massachusetts, 24; Mooney
v. Buford Mfg. Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 32; Darlingtonv. Rogers,
36 Legal Int. 115.
The power of attorney is not subject to the application
of the old doctrine that one not coupled with an interest
is revocable, but is one between a sovereign State, acting as the representative of all its citizens, and a corporation, by which the corporation has obtained a lucrative
business. This alone is sufficient to sustain the power of
attorney and forbid its revocation.
The other authorities establish the same doctrine, that
a power of attorney given for a valuable consideration
or as security is irrevocable. McGregor v. Gardner, 14
Iowa, 326; Ewel's Evans Agency, p. 110, note 1; 2 Kent's

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

577

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Commentaries, 643; Story on Agency (9th ed.), p. 587;
Terwilliger v. Railroad Co., 149 N. Y. 87.
Mr. William Beverly Winslow, Mr. Win. Hepburn Russell and Mr. Frank H. Platt for defendant in error:
The judgments rendered by the Superior Court of
North Carolina were not enforceable in New York unless that court had jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. To obtain such jurisdiction it was necessary
that process be served upon an authorized agent of the
defendant corporation. Art. IV., ยง 1, Fed. Const.; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657, 685; Germania Savings & Loan Society v. Dormitzer, 192 U. S. 125; National Exchange Bank of Tiffin v:
Wiley, 195 U. S. 257, 269-270.
To confer jurisdiction upon the courts of a State to
reIder a judgment against a foreign corporation it is essential that service be made upon an agent of the company whom the law will imply is authorized to receive service, and the corporation must be engaged in doing business
in such State. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; St. Clair
v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S.
518; Barrow Steamship Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100, 111;
Conn. Mutual Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Conley
v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406; Geer v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 428.
The North Carolina court when it rendered these judgments did not have jurisdiction of the defendant corporation. There was no service of process except upon.the
insurance commissioner, who was not the agent of the
defendant to receive service of proc~ess in such actions.
Smithsonian Institution v. St. John, 214 U. S. 19; St. Louis,
K. C. & Col. R. R. Co. v. Wabash R. R. Co., 217 U. S. 247.
A power of attorney, although irrevocable in terms, is
revocable unless coupled with an interest or given for a
consideration. Hunt v. Rousmanier'sAdm., 8Wheat. 174;
VOL.

ccxvii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1910,
Argument for Defendant in Error.

218 U.

S.,

Knapp v. Alvord, 10 Paige, 205; Story on Agency (9th ed.),
587, ยง 476.
The power of attorney in this case was not given for a
consideration. Such a power of attorney as this cannot
be kept alive by reason of such statute, except as to such
persons as acquired vested rights thereunder prior to the
revocation of the power of attorney. Johnson v. Ins.
Co., 132 Massachusetts; 432; Wilson v. Fire Alarm Co.,
149 Massachusetts, 24; Mooney v. Buford Mfg. Co., 72
Fed. Rep. 32; Youmans v. Title Ins. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 282.
As service was not made upon an agent of the company, it is immaterial whether or not defendant was doing
business in North Carolina, Defendant was not in fact
doing business in North Carolina. ConnecticutMutual Ins.
Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602, and Mutual Reserve Assn. 'v.
Phelps, 190 U. S. 147, do not apply. They simply show,
that in the absence of the power of attorney to the insurance commissioner, the corporation could be sued by
any policy-holder in North Carolina, who obtained service upon an agent of the corporation because the corporation in continuing its dealings with the policy-holders
would be held to be so far doing business in the State as
to support such service. We are not dealing here with
such a case. This is a case where a stranger to all the
transactions conducted by the 'defendant in North Carolina instituted an action in that State against the defendant.
While the State can forbid the corporation coming,
into the State to make a contract, it cannot forbid its,
citizens from lawfully making a contract with the corporation at its domicil and thereafter performing the contract
through the mail. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165'U. S. 578.
Nor can it impair the obligation of its contracts any more
than it can an individual's. Bedford v. Eastern Building
& Loan Assn., 181 U. S. 227, 240.
Before it revoked the appointment of the insurance

HUNTER'v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

579

Opinion of the Court.

commissioner of North Carolina as its attorney upon
whom process could be served in that State, the Mutual
Reserve Fund Life Association was licensed to do business in that State; after such revocation it would have
been, as to any new business which it might have done
in the State, violating the North Carolina law, but not
subjecting itself to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina
courts over its person b3 so "doing business." Any provision in the statutes of North Carolina making it subject to such jurisdiction merely because it was "doing
business" in violation of law, without service upon a then
authorized agent in the State, is in violation of the Constitution of the United States and a judgment in personam
against it, not based on personal service on an authorized
agent, is void. Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S.
432, 444; Wetmore v. Karrick, 205 U. S. 141; Cella Commission Co. v. Bohlinger (C. C. A.), 147 Fed. Rep. 419.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This writ of error. is prosecuted to review a judgment
of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, modifying a judgment of the Supreme Court of that State. The
judgment of the Court of Appeals'was remitted to and
made the judgment of the latter court.
The action was brought, by Hunter, whom we shall
call plaintiffi against the insurance company, which we
shall refer to as defendanf, upon five judgments obtained
in the State of North Carolina, recovered by one Emrick
Wadsworth, a citizen of North Carolina, and owned by
plaintiff. The judgments were recovered upon policies
of insurance issued by defendant, one of which was issued
to a eitizen of North Carolina while defendant was doing
business there, the others to citizens of New York and
New Jersey. They were assigned to Wadsworth long after

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

defendant had attempted to remove from North Carolina.
Jidgment was rendered for their full amount with interest and costs, to wit, the sum of $9,965, by direction of
the Appellate Division of the court to which the case was
submitted upon an agreed statement of facts. The Court
of Appeals reduced the same by the amount of the four
judgments recovered on the policies issued in New York
and New Jersey. The Federal question presented is
whether due faith and credit was refused to the judgments, in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
The judgments were obtained by default after service
made upon the insurance commissioner of the State. The
decision of the case turns upon the validity of the service.
The defendant is a life insurance company, organized
under the laws of New York. Prior to March 13, 1899,
it was duly admitted to do business in the State of North
Carolina, it complying with the laws of the State successively passed, which required insurance companies to
appoint agents upon whom service of process could be
made.
On March 6, 1899, the legislature passed a law known
as the Willard law. The law prescribed that no foreign
insurance company should do business in the State until
it had, by a duly executed instrument filed in the office
of the secretary of state, constituted and appointed the
insurance commissioner its true and lawful attorney, upon
whom all lawful process in any action or legal proceedings
might be served, and agreed that such service should have
the same force and validity as if served on the company,
and that'"the authority thereof" should "continue in
force irrevocable so long as any liability of the company"
should "remain outstanding in this Commonwealth."
Chapter 54 of the Laws of 1899.
On or about the thirteenth of April defendant executed
the power of attorney required, and thereupon a license

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

was issued to it to do business, as provided by law, under.
which it did business in the State for a time.
The legislature which passed the Willard law passed
also a law called the Craig act, by which it was provided
that any foreign insurance company desiring to do business in the State after June 1 then ensuing must become
a domestic corporation of the State. There were severe
penalties prescribed for the violation of the act. The
company was subjected to a penalty of $200 a day for
every day it "continued to operate or do business without
having complied with the requirements of the act," and
it was deprived of the right of suing in the state courts
or to enter into any new contracts or enforce those it had
made. In addition to the penalty of $200 it was subjected
to a penalty of $500 for each day that it did business after
the first day of June, 1899, "without first becoming a
domestic corporation."
The act took effect on the tenth of February, 1899.
In May of that year the board of'directors of defendant
passed a resolution to withdraw from the State and to
dispense with and terminate the services of all of its agents.
It also revoked the authority of the insurance comamissioner to act as its attorney to receive service of process.
A certified copy of the resolution was served on the commissioner, and the agents of the company were withdrawn
from the State, the premiums upon the policies theretofore issued by it being remitted by mail to its home office,
where the policies arid premiums were payable, and losses
upon policies being paid by check from its office. Outside of this the record shows four transactions: (1) the rewriting of a policy of insurance in 1899, originally issued
in 1886, which was mailed from its office in New York;
(2) sending a check in payment of a policy issued prior
to May 17, 1899, to be delivered upon receipt of certain
unpaid assessments; (3) the adjustment in North Carolina,
in June, 1902, of a loss upon a policy issued in Washing-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U.S

ton, D. C., the beneficiary having removed to North
Carolina; (4) the adjustment, by an attorney employed
for the purpose, of a claim upon a policy written in North
Carolina prior to May 17, 1899. The first two transactions
were prior to the beginning of the actions in which the
judgments were recovered, and the last two were subsequent to that time. These are the transactions upon
which' plaintiff relies to establish that defendant was doing business at that time in the State.
Three of the policies upon which judgments were recovered were issued in the State of New York long prior
to the year 1899. The fourth policy was issued in New
Jersey, also prior to 1899. The assignments to Wadsworth were made in December, 1901, and January, 1902,
and the suits were begun on January 20, 1902.
There is no controversy over the power of the State
to pass the Willard and Craig acts so called, or to make
their provisions conditions upon which foreign insurance
corporations could do business in the State. The controversy is over the duration of the conditions. The decision upon that, plaintiff contends, depends upon the
question whether the insurance company was doing business in the State at the time the actions on the policies
were brought and process served, and, insisting that it
was, cites Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172
U. S. 602; Mutual Reserve Association v. Phelps, 190
U. S. 147. Plaintiff further insists that, even it be assumed
that defendant had withdrawn from the State in good
faith and had ceased to do business therein after May 18,
1899, it was still liable to be sued in the courts of the State
"in any action or local proceeding of every nature of which
the courts of North Carolina had jurisdiction," and that
the insurance commissioner was its agent to receive service of process. This contention is based on the provision of the statute which continues the authority of. the
commissioner "in force and irrevocable so long as any

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

liability of said company remains outstanding in said
State."
If the situation of defendant, regarding what it had
done and its obligations, wa's exactly expressed by the
contentions of plaintiff, they might be irresistible. But
not only the Willard act but the Craig act must be considered in determining defendant's conduct. It had done
business ,in the State and the former act became a part
of its obligations to its pQlicy-holders. The latter act imposed new conditions upon it, and as an alternative
to compliance with them required it to remove from the
State. An evasion of the requirement was, as we have
seen, severely penalized. Money penalties, one of $200
and one of $500, for every day it should do business after
the first of June, 1899, were imposed upon it and no contract it should make or had-made could be enforced in the
courts of the State. Such were the alternatives presented.
by the Craig act. In other words, defendant was given
the choice to become a domestic corporation or go out
of the State. It chose to go out of the State, and adopted
the only way it could t6 do so. We think such course
was open to it and we see no reason to question -its good
faith.
It is, however, contended that defendant "persisted in
doing business in the State and was so found at the time
of the service of process in question." Four instances are
adduced to sustain the contention, two of which occurred
in 1899 and two in 1902. These instances-have no relation
to one another and no relation to the transactions upon
which the judgments were based. Between the first two
and the last two there was an interval, of three years, and
yet it is insisted that there was such connection between
them that they constituted doing business continuously
in the State, and the defendant was *hence precluded from
revoking its power of attorney to the insurance commissioner. The contention of plaintiff, so far as based on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

instances adduced, encounters a great difficulty. They
were not new business. They related to old transactions,
and were intended only to fulfill their obligations. This
was the plain duty of defendant, a duty which it could not
evade nor could the State even prevent it. Bedford v.
Eastern Building & Loan Association, 181 U. S. 227.
Between doing business for such purposes and doing business generally there is quite a difference.. If not, the consequences are somewhat serious. The Craig act, as we
have seen, imposes a penalty of $700 a day for each day
after the first day of June, 1899, that a foreign corporation
shall do business in the State without conforming to the
provisions of the act.
Plaintiff, however, presses with earnestness, in support
of his contention, the following cases:. Connecticut Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Mutual Reserve
Fund Life. Association v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147; Mutual
Reserve Ins. Co. v. Birch, 200 U. S.-612; Commercial Mutual
Accident Co. v. Davis,. 213 U. S. 245.
In the Spratley case the life insurance policy, which was
the subject of the suit, was issued by the insurance company when it was concededly present and doing business
in' the State of Tennessee. The service was upon an agent
by the--name of Chaffee, sent to investigate into the circumstances of the death of Spratley and the claims of his
widow. These facts distinguish the case from the one at
bar. But certain language of the court is quoted to
establish, not only was the insurance company so doing
business in the State as to justify service of process upon
the agent appointed by the company, but doing business
generally. The court, through Mr. Justice Peckham,
said:
"We think the evidence in this case shows that the
company was doing business within the State at the time
of this service of process. From 1870 until 1894 it had
done an active business throughout the State by its agents

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

therein, and had issued policies of insurance upon the
lives of citizens of the State. How many policies it had
so issued does not appear. Its action in July, 1894,'in
assuming to withdraw from the State was simply a recall
:of its agents doing business therein, the giving of a notice
to the State insurance commissioner, and a refusal to
take any new risks or to issue any new policies within
the State. Its outstanding policies were not affected
thereby, and it continued to collect the premiums upon
them and to pay the losses arising thereunder, and it was
doing so at the time of the service of process upon its
agent."
And further:
"It cannot be, said with truth, as we think, that an insurance company does no business, within a State unless
it has agents therein who are continuously seeking new
risks, and it is continuing to issue new policies upon such
risks. Having succeeded in taking risks in the State
through a number of years, it cannot be said to cease
doing business therein when it ceases to obtain or ask for
new risks or to issue new policies, while at the same time
its old policies continue in force and the premiums thereon
are continuously paid by the policy holders to an agent
residing in another State, and who was once agent in the
State where the policy holders resided. This action on
the part of the company constitutes doing business within
the State, so far as is necessary, within the meaning of the
law upon this subject. And this business was continuing
at the time of the service of process on Mr. Chaffee in
Memphis."
This reference to the law in the State :'must be considered. A statute of the State provided that process
might be served upon any agent of a corporation doing
business in the State found within the county where the
suit was brought, no matter what character of agent such
person might be, and in the absence of such an agent it

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

should be sufficient to serve process upon any person
found in the county who represented the corporation at
th time of the transaction out of which the suit arose
took place. It was under this statute that service was
made upon Chaffee. This service was held good, this
court saying, in addition to what has been quoted above:
"Even though we might be'unprepared to say that a service of process upon 'any agent,' found within the county,
as provided in the statute, would be sufficient in the case
of a foreign corporation, the question for us to decide is
whether, upon the facts of this case, the service of process
upon the person named was a sufficient service to give
jurisdiction to the court over this corporation."
Further explanation of the language of the court is
contained in the following passage:
"A vast mass of business is now done throughout the
country by corporations which are chartered by States
other than those in which they are transacting part of their
business, and justice requires that some fair and reasonable
means should exist for bringing such corporations within
the jurisdiction of the courts of the State where the business
was done, out of which the dispute arises." (Italics ours.)
Mutual Reserve Association v. Phelps is distinguished
from the case at bar by the same features that distinguish
the Spratley case from it. The suit was brought by a
citizen of the State of Kentucky upon a policy issued
when the association was doing a general business in the
State through regular agents under a license from the
State. The commissioner subsequently cancelled its -license, and it withdrew its agents from the State. The
service of process in the action was nevertheless made
upon the commissioner and sustained. It was stipulated
by the parties that outstanding policies were continued
in force after the action of the commissioner on which
the association had collected and was collecting dues, premiums and assessments, and this court held, on the au-

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S

587

Opinion of the Court.

thority of the Spratley case, that the association was doing business in the State. These general words must be
qualified, as we have seen, like words in the cited case
should be qualified, to protect transactions which had been
entered into and to give them the benefit of the law in
view of which they were made. This court said: "The
plaintiff was a citizen of Kentucky, and the cause of action
arose out of transactions had between the plaintiff and
defendant while the latter was carrying on business in
the State of Kentucky under license from the State."
And it was said of the statute that it and "other kindred
statutes enacted in various States indicate the purpose
of. the State that foreign corporations engaging in business within its limits shall submit the controversies growing out of that business to its courts, and not compel a
citizen for such a controversy to seek for the purpose of
enforcing his claims the State in which the corporation
had its home."
Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Company v. Birch was a
like case. Certain judgments which were sued on in New
York were obtained in actions upon policies issued when
the insurance company was doing its regular business in
the State of North Carolina, and antedated its resolution
to withdraw from the State. The case was rested in the
Court of Appeals of New York on Woodward v. Mutual
Life Ins. Co., 178 N. Y. 485, 490. It was said in that case
that the stipulation of the company in regard to service
of process became an obligation of the company precisely
as though it "had been incorporated in the policies, and
thereafter, whether the company continued to do business in the State or not, policy holders could commence
action by service of process upon the Secretary of State,"
subsequently changed to the insurance commissioner.
Woodward v. Mutual Life Ins. Co. was cited by this court
in its opinion sustaining the judgment in the Birch case.
Commercial Mutual Accident Co. v. Davis has the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

characteristics as the cases which we have reviewed and
needs no other comment than that it repeated' the doctrine of the other cases.
The first contention of plaintiff is, therefore, untenable.
The next contention is that even 1 defendant did withdraw from the State in good faith the authority to the
insurance commissioner to receive service of process continued as long as the company had outstanding liabilities
in the State. And this, it is insisted, constituted the
duration of the authority not only for causes of action
arising in the State, but for causes of action arising in
other States. In other words, that the language of the
statute is not limited by its purpose to protect the resident policy-holders of the company, but for the benefit
of every litigant upon any cause of action, and, to use the
graphic language of the Court of Appeals, to "perpetuate a local forum to which under the guise of an assignment to some resident, non-residents of far distant States
might flock.for the purpose of instituting litigation upon
contracts issued to them at their homes, against a corporation there readily subject to service and which long
before had attempted in good faith to withdraw from the
jurisdiction thus hunted out."
This is certainly the logical consequence of plaintiff's
contention, and to sustain it he relies upon Johnston v.
Trade Ins. Co., 132 Massachusetts, 432; Wilson v. Martin,
149 Id. 24; Biggs v. Life Association, 128 N. C. 5. A
statute like that of North Carolina was construed in the
Massachusetts cases, and, therefore, the construction given
to it is instructive. In all of the cases the corporation
had "a domicil of business in the Commonwealth," to use
the language of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and the court recognized that the right to sue upon
cause of action arising in another State was not within
"the main purpose" of the statute passed on, indeed, that
it "was not framed for that purpose," but decided that

HUNTER v. MUT. RESERVE LIFE INS. CO.
218 U. S.

58-

Opinion of the Court.

"the words 'all lawful processes in any action or proceeding' must be held to include all actions which might lawfully be brought against a company thus having a domicil
of business in this Commonwealth." In Wilson v. Martin
the contract sued on was made in the State and was to
be performed there.
In Biggs v. Mutual Reserve Life Association the policy
on which the action was based was issued to a resident of
the State. The language of the court was quite general.
The court did not discuss whether it was "'ceasing to do
business in this State' to transact that business through
agents located outside of the State, by means .of the mail,"
though it may be said that the court 'expressed doubt of
it by referring to the Spratley case: It was said:
"It is sufficient to point out that the statute. requires
the power of attorney to be irre. ocable, not "as long as
the company continues to do business' in this State, but
as long as Any liability of the company-remains outstanding' in hiis State, -and the contraet with the State,
-as expressed in .the power of attorney filed by the company, so specifios. .No amount of authorities havinj a
more or less fancied analogy can overcome these plain
words of the statute and of the power of attorney drawn
and filed in conformity thereto. Green v. Life Association,
105 Iowa, 628; Insurance Co. v. Gillett, 54 Maryland, 213."
This general language must be considered in reference
to the case, a conclusion which is justified by the decision
of the court in Moore v. Mutual Reserve, 129. N. C. 31,
where it is said that the State, having the right to prescribe the terms-upon which the insurance company might
carry on its business in the State, and the-company; "be-ing perntted, proceeded to make contracts with the citizens of the State, and became liable to them under these
contracts. One of the provisions upon which the defenda9t was allowed to do business here was that James R.
Young, insurance commissioner, and his successors in office

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

should be constituted its agent, upon whom service of
process might be made, and that said agency should continue so long as the defendant had any liabilities remaining
unsatisfied in this State arising from or out of its said business of insurance." As to the revocation of the authority
of the commissioner the court said:
"It is conceded that, as a general rule, a principal has
the right to revoke a power of attorney at any time,
whether it is in terms irrevocable or not. But to this
general rule there are well-established exceptions as where
it is coupled.with an interest, or where it is contractual
in its nature, given for ir consideration and for the protection of pome one, or some interest. In our opinion this
power -falls under this exception to the general rule. It
was coitractual in its nature; was given upon consideration that defendant should have the right to carry on its
business in this State. and for the protection 'of those who
should deal with the' defendant."
Manifestly, this means who should deal with the defendant in the State. The facts in the case at bar are
different from the cited cases. The policies upon which
the four judgments were recovered were not issued in
North Carolina, and not having been issued under the
faith of its laws are not entitled to their remedial sanction. The facts in this case are also different from those
in the Massachusetts cases. Defendant did not have "a
domicil of business" in the State, nor were the contracts
to be performed there. It in good faith withdrew from
the State-withdrew indeed under the compulsion of law.
We say under compulsion of law, for clearly the Craig
act Yequired that as an alternative to compliance with
its provisions. It presented a choice to defendant of one
of two courses. Defendant accepted one of them; that is,
withdrew from the State, and revoked the power which
it had give'*, to the insurance commissioner to accept
service for it. Revoked it as far as it could do so. It

CALDER v. MICHIGAN.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

couldnot revoke it as to any "interest or right founded or
created upon faith thereof" and which "required its
perpetuation and continuance," as the Court of Appeals
has correctly said, and we think with that learned court,
that it would be 6xtremely inequitable to regard it as irrev-

ocable to plaintiff and those in his situation. Indeed, it
is not within the contemplation of the statute that the
authority to the commissioner is to be available to those
in the situation of plaintiff.
Judgment affirmed.
CALDER v. THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, Ex rel.
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 58.

Argued November 29, 30, 1910.-Decided December 12, 1910.

This court does not inquire into the knowledge, negligence, methods
or motives of the legislation if, as in this qase, the statute is passed
in due form; and where the statute repeals the charter of a corporation under the reserved'power of repeal, the only question here is
whether the statute goes beyond the power expressly reserved.
A corporation contracts subject, and not paramount, to reservations
in its charter and cannot, by making contracts or incurring obligations, remove or affect such reservations.
A franchise given by a city to a public service corpdratisn does not
enlarge the right of the corporation to exist as against an ,expressly
reserved power to repeal the charter, even if the corporation has
mortgaged such franchise.
In this case, held. that the question of paxties is not open in this court.,
153 Michigan, 724, affirmed.

THi facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry A. Forster and Mr. Willard Kingsley, with
whom Mr. John E' More was on the brief, fQr plaintiffs in
error:
The franchise of a public -corporation -to operate its

