OCTOBER TERM,- 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

all judicial power over the record should not rest, upon a
mere implication from silence. There should be express
consent, or conduct which should equitably estop the
opposite party from denying that he had consented.
There was nothing of that kind in this case, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

RICKEY LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY v.
MILLER AND LUX.
SAME v. WOOD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 4, 5. Argued January 18, 19, '1910.-Restored to the docket for reargument January 31, 1910.-Reargued October 24, 25, 1910.-Decided
November 7, 1910.
One court ought to deal with the whole matter in litigation even.
where the law of different jurisdictions is involved; foreign law
may be ascertained and acted upon and rights depending thereon
protected.
Where riparian rights of several parcels of land in different States but
on the same river are involved, the courts of both States have concurrent jurisdiction, and the court first seized should proceed to
determination without interference.
Quere, whether notice to an individual in regard to his property is not
notice to a corporation organized by him after such notice and to
which he conveys his property.
Where, as in this case, cross-bills are maintainable, jurisdiction in
respect to them follows that over the principal bill.
.152 Fed. Rep. 11, 22; 81 C. C. A. 207, 218, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

.RICKEY LAND & CATTLE CO. v. MILLER & LUX. 259
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Charles C. Boynton and Mr. James F. Peck, with
whom Mr. Frederic D. McKenney was on the brief, for
petitioners,
Mr. Aldis B. Browne and Mr. E. F. Treadwell, with
whom Mr. W. B. Treadwell and Mr. Alexander Britton
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are brought to this court by certiorari.
The facts material to the understanding and decision of
them are these. Miller and Lux is a corporation using the
water of the Walker River in Nevada, and claiming rights
in the same. The two branches of this river, known as
East Fork and West Fork, rise in California and unite in
Nevada above Miller and Lux. One Rickey used the
water of both of these branches in California, and claimed
rights superior to those of the parties lower down on the
stream. On June 10, 1902, Miller and Lux brought a bill
in equity in the Circuit Court for the District of Nevada
against Rickey and certain other defendants, some of
whom are respondents in the second of the present cases,
to enjoin interference with its use of water. Rickey appeared, pleaded to the jurisdiction that the diversion of
water by him was in California, 127 Fed. Rep. 573, and,
later, answered. But, after appearing, he with other
members of his family organized the petitioning corporation, and he conveyed his lands and rights in California
to it. On October 15, 1904, this corporation began two
actiong in a state court of California against Miller and
Lux, the defendants in the bill of Miller and Lux other
than Rickey, and others, to quiet its title and establish its
prior right to 1575 cubic feet per second on the West Fork
and to 504 feet on the East Fork. In December, a few
days before they were served with process in the last-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

mentioned suits, other defendants in the bill brought by
Miller and Lux brought a cross bill against their codefendant Rickey to establish their priority as against
him. In 1906 the bills in these present cases were brought
by Miller and Lux, and defendants other than Rickey in
the original Miller and Lux suit, to restrain proceedings
in the California actions, on the ground that the United
States court for Nevada had acquired jurisdiction before
the California actions were begun. Injunctions were
granted as prayed, and now are before this court for review. 152 Fed. Rep. 11. S. C., 81 C. C. A. 207. Affirming 146 Fed. Rep. 574, 581, 588.
The petitioner contends that there is no conflict of
jurisdiction, and that the proceedings in the California
court should go on. Its argument is this. When a right
is asserted in favor of land in one jurisdiction over land in
another, different principles are involved from those that
suffice when both parcels are subject to the same law.
When such rights have been recognized it has been on the
ground of an assumed "concurrence between the two
States, the one, so to speak, offering the right, the other
permitting it to be accepted. Manville Co. v. Worcester,
138 Massachusetts, 89." Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S.
496, 521. But still there are two parcels of land subject
to different systems of law; and although the rights and
liabilities in respect of each may require a consideration
of the other if they are to be dealt with completely, 'the
fact remains that each may be regulated by the State
where the land lies according to its sovereign will. Kansas
v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 93. If then the courts of one
State are about to deal with one parcel they should not be
indirectly interfered with by a foreign court that has no
power to control the use of the res. It is said to be a general principle that apart from some privity, such as is
created by contract, trust, or fraud, courts of equity
recognize the impropriety of using their power over the

RICKEY LAND & CATTLE CO. v. MILLER & LUX. 261
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

person to achieve such a result. Northern Indiana R. R.
Co. v. Michigan Central R. R. Co., 15 How. 233, 242-244.
Carpenterv. Strange, 141 U. S. 87. Norris v. Chambres, 29
Beav. 246, 253, 254. S. C., 3 De G., F. & J. 583, 584. It is
conceivable, to be sure, that the decisions of this court
may determine that the States have rights as against each
other in invitum in streams that flow through the land of
both. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 84. Miisouri v.
Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 519, 520. These rights may. vary
according to the system of law required by natural conditions. They may be more or less analogous to common
law rights between upper and lower proprietors, where
irrigation is not necessary, as in most of the older States.
See New York v. Pine, 185 U. S. 93, 96. There may be
some, perhaps limited, right of appropriation in the upper
State, at least in the watershed of the stream, where
irrigation is the condition of using the land. See Kansas
v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 100-104, 117. But whatever
this court may decide, if a private owner should derive
advantage from such a decision it would not be in his own
right, but by reason of and subordinate to the rights of
his State, and those rights, the petitioner insists, can, or
at least should be, determined only in a suit brought by
the State itself.
But if for any reason the foregoing argument should
not have prevailed as against Rickey if he had brought
the actions in California after the beginning of the suit in
Nevada, the present petitioner is not affected by the -proceedings against Rickey, as they were. purely personal
and did not concern a purchaser of land outside the jurisdiction. To affect a purchaser with a suit against his
vendor, it is said that at least the res must be within the
territorial jurisdiction of the court in which the suit is
brought. See Fall v. Eatin,215 U. *. 1.
*We are of opinion that the petitioner fails to establish
the conclusion for which it contends. The alleged rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of Miller and Lux involve a relation between parcels of
land that cannot be brought within the same jurisdiction. This relation depends as well upon the permission
of the laws of Nevada as upon the compulsion of the laws
of California. It is true that the acts necessary to enforce
it must be done in California and require the assent ot
that State so far as this court does not decide that they
may be demanded as a consequence of whatever right,
if any, it may attribute to Nevada.. But, leaving the latter possibility on one side, if California recognizes private
rights that cross the border line, the analogies are in favor
of allowing them to be enforced within the jurisdiction
of either party to the joint arrangement. GreatFalls Mfg.
Co. v. Worster, 23 N. H. 462. Full justice cannot be done
and anomalous results avoided unless all the rights of the
parties before the court in virtue of the jurisdiction previously acquired are taken in hand. To adjust the rights
of the parties within the State requires the adjustment of
the rights of the others outside of it. Of course, the court
sitting in Nevada would not attempt to apply the law of
Nevada, so far as that may be different from the law of
California, to burden land or water beyond the state line,
but the necessity of considering the law of California is no
insuperable difficulty in dealing with the case. Foreign
law often has to be ascertained and acted upon, and one
court ought to deal with the whole matter.
We are of opinion, therefore, that there was concurrent
jurisdiction in the two courts, and that the substantive
issues in the Nevada. and California suits were so far the
same that the court first seized should proceed to the
determination without interference, on the principles now
well §ettled as between the courts of the United States
and of the States. Prout v. Starr, 188 U. 9.. 537, 544. Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 161, 162.
As to the argument that the Rickey Land Company is
not affected by any priority that may have been gained

RICKEY LAND & CATTLE CO. v. MILLER & LUX. 263
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as against Rickey, it might be a question, even if the
petitioner was a purchaser without notice, whether the
purchaser would not be confined to asserting its rights in
the pending cause. See Whiteside v. Haselton, 110 U. S.
296, 301. But in this case, if the judge below was of opinion as matter of fact on what appears that the institution
of the petitioner was merely a device to dodge the jurisdiction of the Nevada court, and that the Rickey Land
and Cattle Company was merely Rickey under another
name, we could not say that his finding was wrong.
It is urged that the cross bills on which the bill and
injunction in the second case were based were not maintainable because not in aid of the defenses to the original
suit of Miller and Lux. But it might very well be, as was
shown by the argument for the respondents, that even if
they.admitted the right of Miller and Lux still a decree as
between themselves and other defendants would be necessary in order to prevent a decree for Miller and Lux from
working injustice. See further, Ames Realty Co. v. Big
Indian Mining Co., 146 Fed. Rep. 166. The cross bills
being maintainable the jurisdiction in respect of them
follows that over the principal bill.
Decrees affirmed.

