OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

Court of Appeals exceeded its jurisdiction. There are
two answers to this contention. In the first place, the
converse proposition does not hold. An appeal opens both
fact and law, and therefore might+e regarded as intended
to raise questions of law in any way that might be deemed
proper. But a petition for revision opens only questions
of law, and when the foundation of its jurisdiction is thus
narrowed, the action of the court cannot enlarge it so as
to deal with the facts. In the next place, in this case the
Circuit Court of Appeals made no such attempt. It
treated the facts as undisputed, and differed from the
court below only in its understanding of their significance
and legal import. It filed no finding of facts at or before
the time of entering its decree as required by the General
Orders, but did so only two months after the decree had
been entered, and a month after an appeal had been taken
and allowed by a Justice of this court, upon a petition of
the appellant.
We have considered the suggestion that if the appeal
should be dismissed a certiorari should be granted, but
we are of opinion that no ground is shown for the issue of
the writ.
Appeal dismissed.

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 20.

Argubd October 27, 1910 -Decided

November 14, 1910.

On writ of error the errors considered must be only those of law, and
this court cannot consider sufficiency of evidence to convict if it is
conceded that there *as any evidence at all.
Sections 1 and 2 of law No. 1411 of the Philippine Commission, proIiibiting exportation of Philippine silver coin from the Philippine

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Islands, is not void as depriving the owner of such coin of his property therein without due process of law within the meaning of the"
due process provision of the organic act of 1902. Congress, by
the act of March 2, 1903, c. 980, 32 Stat. 952, authorized the government of the Philippine Islands to adopt such measures as it
deemed proper and not inconsistent with the organic act to maintain parity of gold and silver coinage.
In determining whether a law of the Philippine Commission is invalid
as inconsistent with the organic act this court puts aside all questions
of the wisdom of the law, even if enactgd in the face of axioms
of commerce, and considers only whether power exists to enact
under, and whether the enactment is inconsistent with, the organic
act.
The power to coin money and regulate its value is a prerogative of
sovereignty exclusively vested in the Congress. of the United States,
from which is derived the power of the government of the Philippine Islands inrespect to local coinage.
The quality of legal tender of coin is an attribute of law aside from its
bullion value and renders such coin as the Government has made
legal tender subject to such reasonable regulations by the police
power as public policy may require including prohibition against
exportation, and the exercise of such power does not deprive the
owner of his property without due process of law even if the bullion
value in a foreign country exceeds the legal tender value in the
country of coinage.
Where power is given by Congress to the Philippine Commission to
prohibit an act, the power includes making violation of the prohibition a misdemeanor.

THE facts, which involve the validity of the Philippine law prohibiting the exportation from the Philippine

Islands of silver coin, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. M. Vale, with whom Mr. Marion Butler and
Mr. Lionel D. Hargis were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The Philippine Commission had no- power to enact
law No. 1411. The court below rests its decision sustain-

ing the power of the Civil Commission in the premises,
mainly upon the police powers of the State, but while the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in-Error.

218 U. S.

courts have not defined the limit of the police power
under the terms of any general rule, that power has a
limit. See Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133,'143, holding
that it must appear that the interests of the public generally, as distinguished, from those of a particular class,
require the interference, and that the means are reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the purpose,
and not unduly oppressive upon individuals. The inhibition upon the use of property imposed by the act
passes the limit as here fixed.
Even if the exportation of silver pesos tended to enhance their value above that of the gold pesos, thus disturbing the parity between the two, which is denied, a
remedy not impairing the individual right of property
was at hand and has been applied to keep coin at home
for ages; that of reducing the bullion -value of the coin.
There was no need of the general 'Public or any reasonable
necessity for the act. No'necessity existed for the infringement of the rights of private property. The inducement to carry "the-coins out of the country wholly
disappears by an adjustment of the bullion value to commercial conditions, which is one of the functions of government. Money is coined as a medium of exchange. That
object is defeated by legislation curtailing its use. The
paramount "public interest" lies in a known and accepted medium of exchange supplied by the coin of the
realm, not in restrictions upon the use of that coin as a
medium of exchange.
,A government having a written constitution cannot divest one individual of his property by direct legislation
and invest it in another. Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co. .v.
Chicago, 166 U. S.235.
The effect of the inhibition to export pesos from the
Philippine Islands is to legislate the difference in exchange
out of the pocket of the owner of the pesos and into that
of the money broker.

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The means adopted by law No. 1411 for the retention
of silver in the Islands are unnecessary and unduly oppressive upon individuals and destroy the property rights
of the individual by way of penalty without opportunity
to be heard, particularly in that by such legislation the
individual is allowed the choice of leaving his money in
the Philippine Islands or subjecting himself to the uncertain and erratic course of rates of exchange in removing it.
The act of March 2, 1903, authorizing the Civil Commission of the Philippine Islands to maintain the value
of the silver Philippine peso at the rate of one gold peso,
specifically limited the power of the Civil Commission to
adopting only such measures to accomplish that end as
were not inconsistent with the act of July 1, 1902.
The decision of the court below is against the weight of
evidence, and without authority Of law.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for the United
States:
The act of the Philippine Commission is not invalid
because of any direct effect upon the value of the coin, or
any restriction upon the right of contract, nor does it deprive holders of coins of their property within the meaning
of the act of Congress, by reducing the value of same; and
if their value were reduced, the act was authorized by
§ 6, c. 980, act of March 2, 1903.
The value of these coins was not reduced by the legislation. They are declared by said act of Congress to be
legal tender, unless otherwise provided, and they had the
same purchasing power after the passage of the Philippine act as before.
These coins were circulating mediums and continually
passed from hand to hand, and undoubtedly were not in
the possession of plaintiff in error at the time the act was
passed, and they, therefore, possessed precisely the same
VOL. ccxviii-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for. the United States.

218 U. S.

value when seized as when they came into his possession.
Under the act of Congress, the Philippine Conmission
had ample power to enact all reasonable legislation with
reference to the circulation of these coins.
By Art. I, § 8, c. 5, of the Constitution, Congress was
vested with the power to '"coin money, regulate the value
thereof, and of foreign coin." The Fifth Amendment was
thereafter adopted, which, among other things, provided
that no person shall be "deprived of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law." Inasmuch as this
latter provision was incorporated into the Constitution
as an amendment, all the provisions contained in the
Constitution as first adopted must be consistent therewith. This amendment repealed or abrogated, by implication, everything in the Constitution which was inconsistent with it, precisely as a subsequent act of Congress
repeals by implication all prior provisions of law which
are inconsisteht therewith; although Congress,
since the
adoption of the Fifth Amendment, has not possessed any
authority with reference to the coinage of money and
the regulation of its value, which is inconsistent with the
due process of law provision of said Amendment it has
always assumed without question to pass laws vesting
coins with the qualities of legal tender, depriving them of
such qualities, regulating the ratio of coinage, and in fact,
all character of laws which are deemed of advantage to
the public use of such coins. See acts of May 8, 1792,
1 Stat., c. 39, § 2; February 8, 1793, 1 Stat. 300, c. 5, § 2;
§ 5459, Rev. Stat.; Penal Code, 165; § 5189, Rev. Stat.;
Penal Code, 176.
The act of the Philippine Commission is not inconsistent with the due process of law clause of the organic
act of July 1, 1902, in that it restricts or places a limitation
upon the right of contract. Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190
U. S. 169, 174; Frisbie v. United States, 157 U. S.160, 165;

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407; United States v.
Forty-three Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188; Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S.470, 493.
,The act of the Philippine Commission was an authorized
exercise of the police power. American Ins. Co. v. Canter,
1 Pet. 511, 542; Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 How. 176, 177.
Under instructions to the Philippine Commission signed
by President McKinley on April 7, 1900, Comp. Acts
Phil. Comm., pp. 10-15, and the act of July 1,,1902, the
commission is vested with full power of legislating, except
as restricted by acts of Congress. Manifestly it may
exercise the police power whenever it can be exercised by
the legislature of a State.
The case is here on writ of error, and this court will not,
therefore, review the evidence. Behn v. Campbell, 205 U. S.
403. The decision is not against the weight of evidence.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error. has been Convicted of the offense
of "exporting from the Philippine Islands Philippine
silver coin" in violation of Philippine law No. 1411, being
§§ 1998 and 1999, Compiled Acts of the Philippine Commission, title 3, chapter 194. Sections 1 and 2 of law
No. 1411 read as follows:
"SEc. 1. The exportation from the Philippine Islands
of Philippine silver coins, coined by authority of the act
of Congress approved March 2nd, 1903, or the bullion
made by melting or otherwise mutilating such coins, is
hereby prohibited, and any of the aforementioned silver
coins or bullion which is exported or of which the exportation is attempted subsequent to the passage of this Act
and contrary to its provisiofis, shall be liable to forfeiture,
under due process of law, and one-third of the sum or
value of the bullion so forfeited shall be payable to the
person upon whose information, given te the proper au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

thorities, the seizure of the money or bullion so forfeited
is made, and the other two-thirds shall be payable to the
Philippine Government and accrue to the gold standard
fund. Provided, That 'the prohibition herein contained
shall not apply to sums of P. 25.00 or less, carried by
passengers leaving the Philippine Islands.
"SEc. 2. The exportation or attempt to export Philippine silver coin or bullion made from such coins from the
Philippine Islands, contrary to law, is hereby declared .to
be a criminal offense, punishable, in addition to the
forfeiture of the said coins or bullion as above provided,
b' a fine not to exceed P. 10,000.00, or by imprisonment
for a period not to exceed one year, or both, in the discretion of the court."
We may pass over the assignments of error which
challenge the sufficiency of the:evidence to warrant a
conviction, inasmuch as it is not contended that there was
,no evidence. This is a writ of error, and upon such a writ
the error to be considered must be confined to error of
law.
The substantial question is as to whether a law which
prohibits the exportation of Philippine silver coin from
the Philippine Islands is a law which deprives the owner
of his property in such coins without due process of law,
in violation of that prohibition of the organic act of July 1,
1902, which provides that "no law shall be enacted in said
islands which shall deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of -law." Act of. July 1,
1902, c. 1369, §5, 32 Stat. at Large, 691, 692. The authority for the law is found in the same act of Congress,
§§ 76 et seq., 32 Stat. at Large, 710, which authorized the
Philippine government to establish a mint in the city of
Manila for coinage purposes and %toenact laws for its
operation, and for the striking of certain coins. By the
later act of Congress of March 2, 1903 .(c. 980, 32 Stat.
at Large, 952), it was provided that the gold peso, con-

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sisting of 12.9 grains of gold, nine-tenths Line, should be
the unit of value in the islands. The second section of
that act provided as -follows:
"That in addition to the coinage authorized for use in
the Philippine Islands by the act of. July first, nineteen
hundred and two, entitled 'An act temporarily to provide
for the administration of. the affairs of civil government
in the Philippine Islands, and for other purposes,' the
government of the Philippine Islands is authorized to
coin to an amount not exceeding seventy-five million
pesos, for use in said islands, a silver coin of the denomination of one peso and of the weight of four hundred and
sixteen grains, and the standard of said silver coins shall
be such that of one thousand parts, by weight, nine
hundred shall be of pure metal and one hundred alloy,
and the alloy shall be of copper."
Section six of the same act of March 2, 1903, provided:
"That the coinage authorized by this act shall be subject to the conditions and limitations of the provisions of
the act of July first, nineteen hundred and two, entitled
'An act temporarily to provide for the administration, of
the affairs of civil government in the Philippine Islands,
and for other purposes,' except as herein otherwise provided; and the govermnent of the Philippine Islands may
adopt, such measures as it may deem proper, not inconsistent with said act of July first, nineteen hundred and
two, to maintain the value of the silver Philippine peso at
the rate of one gold peso;"
In a subsequent part of the same section the issuance
of certificates of indebtedness, bearing interest, was authorized as a specific measure for maintaining the parity
between the silver and gold peso.
The law of the Philippine Comlission, above set out,
under which the conviction of the plaintiff in error was
secured, must rest upon .the provision of § 6, above set
out, as a means of maintaining "the value of the silver

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

peso at the rate of one gold peso." Passing by any consideration of the wisdom of such a law prohibiting the
exportation of the Philippine Islands silver pesos as not
relevant to the question of power, a substantial reason for
such a law-is indicated by the fact that the bullion value
of such coin in Hong Kong was some nine per cent greater
than its face value. The law was, therefore, adapted to
keep the silver pesos in circulation as a medium of exchange in the islands ahd at a parity with the gold peso
of Philippine mintage.
The power to "coin money and regulate the value
thereof, and of foreign coin," is a prerogative of sovereignty
and a power exclusively vested in the Congress of the
United States. 'The power which the government of the
Philippine Islands has in respect to a local coinage is
derived from the express act of Congress. Along with
the power to strike gold and silver pesos for local circulation in the islands was granted the power to provide such
measures as that government should "deem proper," not
inconsistent with the organic law of July 1, 1902, necessary
to maintain the parity between the gold and silver pesos.
Although the Philippine act cannot, therefore, be said to
overstep the wide legislative discretion in respect of measures to preserve a parity between the gold and silver pesos,
yet it is said, that if the particular measure resorted to be
one which operates to deprive the owner of silver pesos, of
the differenoe between their bullion and coin value, he has
had his property taken from him without compensation,
and, in its wider sense, without that due process of law
guaranteed by the fundamental act of July, 1902.
Conceding the title of the owner of such coins, yet there
is attached to such ownership those limitations which
public policy may require by reason of their quality as a
legal tender and as a medium of exchange. These limitations are due to the fact that public law gives to such
coinage a value which does aot attach as a mere conse-

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quence of intrinsic value. Their quality as a legal tender
is an attribute of law aside from their bullion value.
They bear, therefore, the impress of sovereign power
which fixes value and authorizes their use in exchange.
As an incident, the Government may punish, defacement
and mutilation and constitute any such act, when fraudulently done, a misdemeanor. Rev. Stat., §§ 5459, 5189.
However unwise a law may be, aimed at the exportation
of such coins, in the face of the axioms against obstructing
the free flow of commerce, there can be no serious doubt
but that the power to coin money includes the power to
prevent its outflow from the country of its origin. To
justify the exercise of such a power it is only necessary that
it shall appear that the means are reasonably adapted to
conserve the general public interest and are not an
arbitrary interference with private rights of contract or
property. The law here in question is plainly within the
limits of the police power, and not an arbitrary or unreasonable interference with private rights. If a local coinage was demanded by the general interest of the Philippine Islands, legislation reasonably adequate to maintain
such coinage at home as a medium of exchange is not a
violation of private right forbidden by the organic law.
Obviously, if the Philippine government had power to
prohibit the exportation or melting of Philippine silver
pesos, it had the power to make the violation of the prohibition a misdemeanor.. The proceedings for the enforcement of the law included the ordinary process in
,riminal cases lawful in the islands and not forbidden by
he act of July, 1902.
Judgment affirmed.

