OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

218 U. S.

to the judgment in action No. 505, which was pleaded as
res judicata by the Montezuma Canal Company.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ROURA v. GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 35.

Argued November 3, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Jurisdiction as to amount in controversy sustained on the facts disclosed in affidavits filed in this court, there being none filed in
ebuttal.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands denying a
petition for registration of title to land on the ground that the petitioner had no legal title thereto under Spanish law, sustained.
Issue in the courts below having been confined solely to the legality of
deeds on which the petitioner sought to register and which those
courts held to have been fraudulently obtained and illegal, the title
could not be registered, on claim of quiet possession subsequent to
the obtaining of those deeds and in regard to which there was no
proof in the record.
8 Philippine Reports, 214, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the right of a claimant to land
in the Philippine Islands to register the title thereto, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. FredericR. Coudert, with whom Mr. Howard Thayer
Kingsbury was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

ROURA v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. As8istant Attorney General Fowler for defendant in
error.
MR. JusTicE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Maria and Juana Roura petitioned the Court of Land
Registration to register their alleged title as undivided
equal owners of a piece of real estate situated in the
pueblo of San Miguel de Mayumo, province of Bulacan.
See for the general functions of the Court of Land Registration, Carino v. Ithsular Goternment, 212 U. S. 449;
Reavis v. Fianza, 215 U. S. 16. This writ of error is
prosecuted to a judgment of the Supreme Court affirming the trial court in refusing, on the opposition of the
insular government, the prayer for registration.
The right to prosecute the writ is challenged on the
ground that the amount involved is not sufficient to confer jirisdiction, and because there are no questions arising adequate alone to give jurisdiction. Without going
into detail, we say, in view of the affidavits filed in this
court concerning the value of the property, after allowing for the elements of speculation possibly entering into
the amount fixed in the affidavits, we think, in the absence
of affidavits in rebuttal, a sufficient showing has been
made to give jurisdiction We therefore overrule the mo'tion to dismiss and proceed to the merits.
To reduce the case to the issues essential to be decided
requires a statement of the source and history of the title
whose registry was asked. We therefore at once state
the salient and indisputable facts on that subject. On
the twenty-fourth of March, 1885, by act before a notary
public, Jose Mercado, declaring that he owned and possessed two parcels of irrigated land situated- in Sibul,
pueblo of San Miguel de Mayumo, sold the same for cash
to Juan Roura. A few weeks. after, on May third, 1885,
the actipg petty governor 'of the pueblo of San Miguel

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

de Mayumo issued a certificate, stating that Jose Mercado had declared to him that he possessed and owned
three parcels of irrigated land in the pueblo, two of which
are rice lands and the other serves as a building lot and
garden, where he has his house erected; that he had
possessed the land peaceably and uninterruptedly for
more than thirty years, and asking that a certificate be
issued as to the truth of these declarations. It was
recited in the certificate that the "cominune of leading
citizens" was convoked and that they unanimously
declared that the statements of Mercado were in effect
true. The certificate was signed by the petty governor
and the individual citizens who 'had been convoked to
pass upon its statements. The purpose of obtaining the
certificate does not appear, but it is inferable that it was
intended to be used in a proceeding to be instituted by
Mercado to obtain a recognition from the proper administrative authorities of his alleged title to the land. We
say this, because four months after it appears among
the files of a proceeding which, on September 10, 1885,
the General Directorate of Civil Administration, under
the authority vested in it by the regulations authorizing
it to adjust and compose outstanding claims of title
to the royal and unreclaimed lands, directed a deed to be
issued to Mercado covering two tracts of land in the
pueblo of San Miguel de Mayumo upon the payment of
two and a fraction pesos. The sum thus to be paid, it
was declared, represented ten per cent of the assessment
of the land, and was exacted "for the expense of surveying
and measurement to be made by a deputy surveyor of
unreclaimed lands and the fees for the title deed, according to the provisions of the decree of the General Government of these islands of September 12, 1882, approved
by royal order of July 25, 1884." On October 19 following,
the Director General of Civil Administration executed,
on behalf of the Directorate, a deed to Mercado of two

ROURA v. oPHIILPPINE ISLANDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pieces of real estate situate in the pueblo of San Miguel de
Mayumo, the description of the second of which pieces in a
general sense conformed as to its exterior boundaries to
the description of one of the pieces which had been previously sold by Mercado to Roura, and also of one of the
pieces described in the certificate of the petty governor.
In making this deed the Director General declared that
it was executed conformably to the decree46f the General
Directorate of September 7, 1885, by which decree the
ownership of the land had been "awarded gratuitously
to Mercado." Shortly prior to the making of the deed
by the Director General to Mercado, that is, on September 25, and shortly following, on November 9, deeds authorized by the General Directorate, to unreclaimed land
in the pueblo of San Miguel, were made, the one in favor
of Regino Pengson, and the other in favor of the parish
priest of San Miguel. While the description of the land
embraced by these two deeds or the surveys cotemporaneously made concerning the same are not in the record,
it is established that the land which they embraced was
surveyed by the official surveyor who surveyed the
Mercado land, and that it was not supposed by the
Directorate that there was any conflict between the
three claims.
Shortly after the making of the Mercado deed it would
•seem that a complhint was made to the Directorate of
Civil Administration by Pengson, based upon an alleged
conflict between the descriptions of the land embraced in
the composition sale made to him and that described
in the composition deed to lMercado. The precise character and extent of this conflict .is not disclosed, but it is
inferable from the documentary evidence that it related .to
the situation of a medicinal mineral spring, which was
apparently claimed by both, Pengson under his composition and by Mercado under his. The matter was
heard by the Directorate of Civil Administration, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court

218 U. S.

the result of the investigatikn cef that body was by it,
reported to the Governor General, with its recommendation for his action.
The Governor General, confcrynably to the recommendations made to him, issue6 an order annulling the
composition pioceedings and the deeds issued thereunder
to Pengson, Mercado and the parish curate. It was expressly directed that all the proceedings in the several
compositions be annulled, reserving the right of the parties
to apply for a new composition. It was further directed,
however, that before such new composition be allowed a
competent surveyor be appointed, who should mark out
the boundaries of the medicinal mineral spring, with the
appurtenant land necessary to enable the public to enjoy
its benefits, and that such spring and the land so marked
out should be held as public property, reserving to private
owners the right to demand compensation for any private
land taken in the execution of the order. In addition, the
order commanded the local authorities to demand from
Pengson, Mercado and the parish priest a return of the
deeds issued to them which the order cancelled; that the
order be transmitted to the proper provincial and local authorities to be executed and put of record, in conformity to
law. The order was published in the official gazette at
Manila, and was undoubtedly communicated through the
proper administrative channels to alli the administrative
officers who were concerned with its execution, in6luding
local officei-s of the pueblo of San Miguel. The grounds
upon which the'Directorate recommended and the Governor General annulled the composition proceedings, as
above stated, were thus enumerated in the official files:
"Account having been given by this central office to
his excellency the Governor General of the proceeding
instituted by Don Jose Fores on behalf of Don Regino
Pengson relative to a claim of lands granted by composition in the barrio of Sibul, pueblo of San Miguel de

ROURA v, 2HILIPPINE ISLANDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion .of the Court.

Mayumo, it being found that not only the land granted
to the aforesaid Pengson, but also those granted to Jose
Mercado and to the parish priest of San Miguel, do
not agree in their location or boundaries with those set
forth in the title deeds issued by this general directorate
under date of November 9, October 19, and September 25
of last year, respectively, and that these differences
originate in errors committed by the expert appraiser of
lands, Don Jose Moreno, when 'he practiced the. acts
relative to said lands in the capacity of acting deputy
of unreclahned lands. And it being found that the Sibul
Spring has never been known as private property, nor is
it included in land which may have this character, but
rather that those medicinal waters have been utilized,
without.any hindrance or obstacle, not only by the residents of the pueblo but by the public in general, as is
evidenced amongst other things by a certificate of the
municipal authorities of San Miguel de Mayumo, and is
confirmed by the unanimous and universal voice of the
public, and it being found that the general inspection of
unreclaimed lands and this general directorate have been
taken unawares by theqaforesaid expert to issue, as they
did issue, by virtue of the surveys made by him, titles
of ownership by composition of the lands bordering upon
thie Sibul Springs, by reason of which it might be believed.
that .the spring is found included within s(me of them,
And that the public and free zone which all springs have
and need for their enjoyment had disappeared, and considering that the three proceedings referred to embrace a
vice of nullity from their beginning, because the data
which appear in the notes of survey and measurement
of the lands and the plans irhich accompany them are
not correct, and consequently the title deeds issued do
nt describe the lands such as they really are, and considering that the party responsible for this discrepancy is
the expert, Don Jose Moreno, who, when called to explain

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

the errors committed by him, has not done so satisfactorily, errors all the more inexcusable in that there are
involved parcels relatively small and contiguous and
surveyed and measured with an insignificant lapse of time
between one and the other, giving rise to the suspicion
that said errors have not been caused solely by neglect
nor lack of zeal, but voluntarily, and with knowledge of
the mistakes which are contained."
We state in a summary way the further official action
concerning the medicinal spring, referred to in the order.
The Governor General directed the proper provincial
and local authorities to establish at the spring a sanitarium for the use of the public. But this not being
carried out, it was suggested that the spring be placed
under the control of private persons for the purpose of
creating a sanitarium for the public benefit, with a moderate subvention from the treasury. This. project also fell
through, on the suggestion that private capital might
* not be willing to venture an outlay for the erection of
the sanitarium because of the fear of outstanding claims
to ownership of the spring and the dread that it might
*ultimately not be held to be public property. Subsequently the provincial and local authorities were directed
by the Governor General to investigate and report concerning the existence of alleged claims to private ownership of the spring, and as incident thereto to expressly
report concerning its possession and use during the past.
This order brought out an official statement as to, the
previous composition deeds, their annulment, etc., as we
have stated them, coupled with a renewed declaration
that investigation disclosed that the spring had never
been possessed by any private person, but had always
been enjoyed by the public and used as public property.
Finally, in September, f8915, from Madrid, a royal decree
was issued, the necessary effect of which was to sanction
the previous action of the local authorities. This order

ROURA v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

directed that the spring, with adequate appurtenant
property, be sold at public auction.
Long prior to this, in fulfillment of the order of the
Governor General of March 5, 1886, in that year and on
the twenty-third of that month, demand was made of
the curate of San Miguel for the return of the deed made
to him in consequence of the composition proceedings, and
he declared that he had mislaid the deed and could not
find it. On the same day of the same month and year a
demand was made both on Mercado and Pengson for
their deeds. Pengson declared that, having filed his in
the proceedings.-to vscate which had taken place before
the Directorate, he did ifot hive the deed in his possession.
Mereado declared that he had sold the land and had
delivered the deed to the purchaser. Not having disclosed who the purchaser was, further orders to call on
him for disclosure were made, but he was absent and could
not be reached. Afterwards, in October, 1890, Mercado
having died, his widow, in answer to an official demand
upon her, declared that the property covered -by the
composition had been conveyed by her husband during
his life to Roura, to whom the deed had been delivered,
and that Roura being dead, the deed would probably be
found in the possession of his heir and daughter, Maria
Roura,. and she upon demand being made upon her,
declared that during the lifetime of her father she had
heard the title deed mentioned, "but at the present time
I am ignorant of its whereabouts." Although the precise
date does not appear, it is certain that Roura died testate,
and. that, by an amicable a~justment and extrajudicial
partition of his estate, his two daughters, Juana and
Maria Roura, petitioners before the Court of Registration, became entitled to one undivided 'half each of his
rights in and to the land conveyed by Mercado, if any
such there were.
With this prelude, we are brought to the initiation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

the proceedings in the Court of Land Registration, now
before us.
The petition was filed on September 19, 1904. It is
alleged that the two plaintiffs were the equal undivided
owners of a tract of land, which was described, the description evidently relating to one of the tracts of land
which had been described in the deed from Mercado to
Roura, and in the certificate issued to Mercado by the
petty governor. It was besides alleged that the title of
the petitioners was derived by them as heirs of their
father, and that he had derived his title from the conveyance made to him by Mercado. It was averred that "said
property described is not occupied by any one," and,
aside from any inference of possession to be drawn from
the alleged ownership, there was no averment whatever
of possession. Various documents were annexed to the
petition, among which it is only necessary to mention
the certificate issued to Mercado in 1885 by the petty
governor and the deed made by Mercado to Roura.
The insular government appeared and opposed the
prayer for registration, on the ground that the petitioners
had no title to the property, and that it was a part of the
public domain. When the case was called for hearing the
husband of Mrs. Modesta Pengson appeared in her behalf
to resist the registration applied for, on the ground that
she held title to the property, and time was given to
formulate an opposition, but this was not availed of,
and no further action was taken on behalf of Mrs. Pengson.
At the trial the petitioners offered varioks documents to
establish their heirship of their father, which need not
be referred to. Declaring that the property to which
the petition related was that secondly described in the
deed from Mercado to Roura (containing the spring), the
petitioners offered that deed and the plan or sketch of
the property, which was made in 1885, at the time of the
composition proceedings. In addition they offered an

ROURA v. PHILIPPINE iSLA. 'kDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

official file containing one of the administrative reports
which we have stated, that L, the cile saying that it
would be unwise to seek to procure private capital for
the purpose of establishing a sanitarium until the question of whether there was a private claim to the property
was clearly settled. The Government offered files of the
administrative proceedings, showing in great detail the
facts which we have previously stated, that is, the order
for composition in favor of Mercado by the Directorate,
the deed to him, the controversy originated by Pengson,
the decree of the Governor General vacating the compositions and annulling all that had been done under them,
and, indeed, establishing all the facts as to notice, the
investigation and report as to 'possession, and the ultimate making of the royal decree. The evidence being
closed, counsel for the petitioner thus stated to the court
the proposition upon which he relied to secure the allowance of the registration of the title as prayed:
"The court offers to hear the oral *argument of Sr.
Ferrer. Sr. Ferrer stated that he sought the Court of
Land Registration to obtain title deed to the parcel of
land which is the subject of the proceeding. The right
which his principals invoked was derived from the right
of the original owner, Don Jose Mercado, who acquired
the same by virtue of the grant made by the Council of
Civil Administration for a stipulated sum, in exchange
for the parcel of land. The deceased, Juan Roura, father
of the petitioners, acquired possession of this land by
virtue of a deed of sale executed by Don Jose Mercado in
his favor, and from him the petitioners inherited the same.
After some time had elapsed the general government annulled that title by grant without returninig the money
consideration for the land, and without previously hearing the defenses which the aggrieved owner might set up,
when, as a matter of fact, this matter ought to have been
heard before the competent court. This is not legal; it

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

is an embezzlement, since it cannot be conceived that
after the possession of this real estate had been lawfully
granted and the cost 'thereof had been paid to the satisfaction of both parties, as is witnessed by the documents
in evidence, all of the transaction should be afterward
retroactively annulled.
"These points having been explained he requested the
registration of the property in the name of his clients."
.The court denied the prayer for the registration of the
title. Summarily stated, it was of opinion, a, that ie
subject of making the composition as to the unreclaimed
land and awarding a deed was within the administrative
authority of the officials, as was also the right to revoke
and cancel the deed within a limited time for error found
to exist or fraud discovered to have been practiced in
obtaining the deed; b, that it was unnecessary to inquire
whether irregularities existed in the proceedings by which
the deed was cancelled, or whether an abuse of administrative discretion had happened in those proceedings,
because the Spanish law created express and exclusive
remedies for the correction of such errors, and required
that those remedies should be resorted to within a time
designated, and did not therefore allow such complaints
to become the subject-matter of ordinary judicial controversies; c, that as the deed, which was relied upon as
the basis for registration, was the mere result of a composition proceeding and was, in its essence, not a contract
upon a moneyed consideration, but a mere gratuitous
award without the payment of a price, the question of
error committed in the annulment proceedings came
within one-or the other of the systems of administrative
recourse provided by the Spanish law, which, not having
been availed of, operated to deprive of the right to complain judicially of the cancellation; d, that there was no
room for holding that the right to registry obtained because of a prescriptive title, acquired under the composi-

ROURA v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion deed to Mercado by virtue of article 1957 of the
Civil Code, providing that "ownership and other property rights in real property are prescribed by possession
for ten years . .
with good faith and a proper
title." Because, first, from the date of the annulment of
the title good faith had in any event ceased to exist, and,
second, because of the absence of the essential element of
possession, since "it has not been proved that there had
been exercised, either before or after the declaration of
nullity of the title, any possessory act on the part of the
petitioners or of their predecessor. All effort of counsel
for the petitioners consisted, after the opposition of the
insular government was known, in proving that the former
administration did not act within its powers in declaring
the nullity of the title deed offered." The case having
been carried to the Supreme Court, that court affirmed
the judgment upon grounds substantially identical with
those which controlled the action of the trial court.
Although we have concluded, from a consideration of
the opinion of the court below, aided by the painstaking
and full reference to the Spanish law contained in the
brief on behalf of the insular government, that the court
below was clearly right in its opinion as to the legal principles held to be decisive, we do not stop to state and review those considerations, because we think the argument
at bar renders it unnecessary. We say this, because the
argument for the plaintiffs in error in substance but
proceeds upon the theory that, although the Spanish law
was correctly expounded by the court below, nevertheless that law was, inapposite because of conditions which
it is insisted existed prior to and at the time.the composition deed was issued and when the administrative order
of annulment of that title was made. The proposition is
thus stated in the argument:
"The position of the plaintiffs may be very briefly summarized as follows: In 1885 Jose Mercado was already,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

hy virtue of his thirty years' possession, the absolute
owner of the land in question. The composition deed of
October 19, 1885, did not create his title, but was merely
evidence of it. The decree of March 5, 1886, was wholly
ineffectual to divest his ownership, and at most only
affected the record evidence of such ownership. It is
immaterial that no affirmative proceedings were taken
by Mercado or his successors in interest to question the
validity and effect of the decree of annulment. They
were justified in relying on their undisturbed possession
and awaiting adverse action, when it would be open to
them to raise all such questions. This ownership, founded
on possession, was in itself a property right, protected by
the treaty of Paris and the Organic Act, and entitled to
registration as a title in fee simple. The insular government is nowi asking this court +o carry into effect even
beyond its very terms a decree of a Spanish Governor
General, made thirteen years before the cession, which is
void on its face as in violation of the fundamental laws of
the former government, and, by virtue of such void decree,
to deny plaintiffs' owrership of lands which have been in
their possession for fifty years-a possession which the
Spanish
Government never undertook to disturb."
And ,the
theory of established possession upon
which
the contention rests is reiterated in many forms of expression throughout the entire argument. But when the statement of the case which we have made is considered it
becomes apparent that this contention misconceives the
case as presented, since it proceeds upon an assumption
unwarranted by the. pleadings and unsustained by any
proof whatever. As we have seen, the case as made by
the pleadings was rested solely upon the right to register
resulting from the composition deed, without the slightest
averment of possession prior to the time that deed was
issued, except as it may be considered that such possession
was alleged as a necessary result of the averments as to

ROURA v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the deed. It is further evident that the validity of the
deed to. Mercado was the one issue which arose on the
opposition of the insular government. That this was
understood by both parties clearly results from the fact
that not a particle of proof was offered concerning the
possession prior to or at the time of the composition deed,
irrespective of the administrative proceedings leading up
to the issue of that deed and following on its annulment.
This, moreover, is additionally demonstrated by the express declaration of counsel for petitioners concerning the
matter for decision, made after the evidence was in and
the case was ripe for consideration. That the trial court
had not the remotest thought that such issue was before it is plainly manifest from its statement that all the
effort of the counsel of petitioners was directed to assailing
the competency of the administrative officers to avoid
the Mercado deed and annulling the composition proceedings, and that no evidence whatever had been offered
to prove possession of the property in controversy by
Mercado or any of those holding under him from the
date of the deed up to and including the time of the
submission of the cause. That this conception of the issue also prevailed when the case was taken to the Supreme Court of the islands we think is plainly apparent
from the assignment of errors, referred to by the Supreme
Court in its opinion. We think it also conclusively results
from the opinion of the Supreme Court, when considered
as a whole, that that court also thought the issue presented to it was thus limited. True it is that a concluding
passage in the opinion of the Supreme Court is referred
to as indicating that the court thought that the question
of the acquisition by Mercado of the title to the property
by preemption prior to the composition deed was involved.
But we do not think the passage in the opinion, when
taken in connection. with its context, has the meaning

attributed to it. If it had, it would be the merest obiter,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

2i8 U. S

since the pleadings did not raise that issue, and there
was not the slightest proof concerning it. While it is not
necessary, we deem it well to say that in reviewing the action of the court below we are, of course, confined to the
record and the case therein made, and may not, as the
result of mistaken suggestions as to the issues and proof
disregard our duty by deciding, not the case as made, but
an imaginary one, wherein issues not made and not
presented below would have to be supplied, and whereby
conjecture and surmise must be indulged to replace the
total absence of all proof on a particular subject. So far
as the unwarranted assumption concerning the subject
of possession relates to acts done after the deed to Mercado, it is also disposed of by what we have said, and is
besides completely answered by the express finding of
both courts concerning the absence of all proof of possession during that period.
Affirmed.

MOFFITT v. KELLY, TREASURER OF ALAMEDA
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
ERROR-TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 37.

Argued November 4, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

The Constitution of the United States does not, as a general rule, control the power of the.States to select and classify subjects for taxation; and -vested rights whieh cannot be impaired by subsequent
legislation may still be classified for, and subjected to, taxation.
A State may classify for taxation estates passing by will or intestacy
and include therein property held as community property by husband and wife at the tir e of the death of the husband and becoming completely vested in the wife, without violating either the

-

