HOLT v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

HOLT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 231'. Argued October 13, 14, 1910.-Decided October 31, 1910.
Where the acts constituting the assault are alleged to have been made
feloniously and with malice aforethought, it is not necessary to
make such allegations in the preliminary avehinent of assault.
Quwre, and not necessary to be decided in this case, how far, if at all,
the court is warranted in inquiring into the nature of the evidence
on which the grand jury acts, and how far in case of such inquiry the
discretion of the trial court is subject to review.
Indictments should not be upset because some evidence, in its nature
competent, but rendered incompetent by circumstances, was considered along with other evidence.
Unless the error is manifest the reviewing court should not set aside
the finding of the trial court refusing to sustain a challenge of a
juryman for cause on the ground of partiality or expressed opinions.
Although the more conservative course is to exclude the jury during
discussions of admissibility of confessions, in the absence of statutory
provision it is within the discretion of the trial judge to allow the
jury to remain; and where, as in this case, he: cautions the jury that
the preliminary evidence has no bearing on the question to be decided, it is not error to do so.
In this case the ruling of the trial court that the District Attorney
was not guilty of misconduct in making statements in his opening
as to voluntary confessions of the accused sustained.
In considering a motion for new trial in a capital case on the ground
that the jury was allowed to separate during the trial and that during the separation they saw newspaper articles bearing on the case,
the court may, if it is going to deny the motion, assume that the
jurors did read the articles, and the discretion of the trial court in
denying the motion will not be reviewed in the absence of any conelusive ground that he was wrong, notwithstanding the more conservative course is not to allow the jury to separate in such cases.
In this case the objections to evidence identifying the military reserva-

246

OCTOBER" TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

ion on which a capital crime was alleged to have been committed,
including introduction of deeds and condemnation proceedings, were
properly overruled, and'quwre whether the United States is called on
to try title toa reservation where it is in de facto exercise of exclusive
jurisdiction.
The prohibition of the Fifth Amendment against compelling a man to
give evidence against himself is a prohibition of the use of physical
or moral compulsion to extort communications from him and not
an exclusion of his body as evidence when it is material; and so held
that testimony of a witness that the accused put on a garment and it
fitted him is admissible, whether the accused had put 6n the garment voluntarily or under duressIn this case, the charge and instructions of the trial court'as to legal
presumptions of innocence and what constitutes a reasonable doubt
held to he correct.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a conviction
for murder committed on a military reservation of the
United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugh M. Caldwell, with whom Mr. C. F. Riddell
and Mr. John Lewis Smith were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.

Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Fowler for the United
States.

MR. JuSTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was indicted, in the Circuit Court,

for murder, alleged to have been committed "within the
Fort Worden Military Reservation, a place under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States." There was a
trial and a verdict of guilty, without capital punishment,
as allowed by statute. He was sentenced to imprisonment
for life, and thereupon brought this writ of error.

Fed. Rep. 141.

168

HOLT v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

The seriousness of some of the questions raised is somewhat obscured by a number of meticulous objections. We
shall dispose of the latter summarily, and shall discuss at
length only matters that deserve discussion. We shall
follow in the main the order adopted by the plaintiff in
error.
The indictment is well enough. The words quoted at
the outset convey with clearness sufficient for justice that
the Fort Worden Military Reservation was under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States at the time of
the murder.-It is alleged that Holt did with force and
arms an assault make upon one Henry E. Johnson with a
certain iron bar, and did then and there feloniously,
wilfully, knowingly and with malice aforethought strike,
beat, and mortally wound him, the said, Henry E. Johnson, with said iron bar, etc. As the acts constituting the
assault are alleged to have been made feloniously and With
malice aforethought, there was no need to make such'allegations in the preliminary averment of assault.
It is pressed with more earnestness that the court erred
in not granting leave to withdraw the plea of Not Guilty,
and to interpose a plea in-abatement and motion to quash.
The ground on which leaVe was asked was an affidavit of
the prisoner's counsel that they had been informed by
Captain Newton, of the Coast Artillery Corps, that he
testified before the grand jury to admissions by the
prisoner, but that these admissions were obtained under
circumstances that made them incompetent. The affidavit added that aside from the above testimony there
was very little evidence against the accused. Without
considering how far, if at all, the court'is warranted in
inquiring into the nature of the e-,idence on which a
grand jury has acted, and how far, in case of such an
inquiry, the discretion of the trial court is subject to review, United States v. Rosenburgh, 7 Wall. 580, it is
enough to say that there is no reason for reviewing it here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

All that the affidavit disclosed was that evidence in its
nature competent, but made incompetent by circumstances, had been considered along with the rest. The
abuses of criminal practice Would be enhanced if indictments could be upset on gsuli a ground. McGregor v.
United States, 134 Fed. Rep-. 187, 192, 430. Radford v.
United States, 129 Fed. Rep. 4ยง, 51. Chadwick v. United
States, 141 Fed. Rep. 225, 235.
Next it is said that there was error in not sustaining a
challenge for cause to a juryman; with the result that the
prisoner's peremptory challenges were diminished by one.
On his examination it appeared that this juryman had
not talked with anyone who purported to know about the
case of his own knowledge, but that he had taken the
newspaper statements for facts; that he had no opinion
other than that derived from the papers, and that evidence would change it very easily, although it would take
some evidence to remove it. He stated that if the evidence failed to prove the facts alleged in the newspapers
he would decide according to the evidence or lack of evidence at the trial, and that he thought he could try the
case solely upon the evidence fairly and impartially. The
finding of the trial court upon the strength of the juryman's opinions and his partiality or impartiality ought
not to be set aside by a reviewing court unless the error is
manifest, which it is far from being in this case. See
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145. Hopt v. Utah, 120
U. S. 430. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131. If the decisions
of the State of Washington are of especial importance, we
do not understand Rose v. State, 2 Washington, 3i0, 312,
State v. Croney, 31 Washington, 122, 125, 126, and intervening cases to be overruled by State v. Riley, 36 Washington, 441, 447, 448.
Before the above-mentioned motion to withdraw the
plea of not guilty was argued the judge was asked to
exclude the twelve jurors who had been selected, al-

HOLT v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

though not sworn. He replied that he was unwilling to
exclude the jury from any part of the proceedings in the
trial. Later, after the jurW had been sworn, he pursued
the same course while hearing preliminary evidence of the
circumstances in which the prisoner was alleged to have
made statements, and while hearing arguments as to admitting ,the statements. The district attorney spoke of
the admissibility of 'confessions' in the course of his remarks. Exceptions' were takeni and the judge's refusa4
is urged with much earnestness to have been error. But
we are of opinion that it was within the discretion of the
judge to allow the jury to remain in court. Technically
the offer of the evidence had to be made in their presence
before any question of excluding them could arise. They
must have known, even if they left the court, that statements relied on as admitting part or the whole of the
Government's case were offered. The evidence to which
they listened was simply evidence of facts deemed by the
judge sufficient to show that the statements, if any, were
not freely made, and it could not have prejudiced the
prisoner. No evidence was admitted that the prisoner
had made any confession and his statements were excluded. Moreover the judge said to the jurythat they
were to decide the case on the testimony as it came from
the witnesses on the stand; not what counsel might say
or the newspapers publish; that he was not' excluding
them, because he assumed that they were men of experience and common sense and could decide the case upon
the evidence that the court admitted. He also told them
in the strongest terms that the preliminary evidence that
he was hearing had no bearing on the question they had
to decide. No doubt the more conservative course is to
exclude the jury during the consideration of the admissibility of confessions, but there is force in the judge's view
that if juries are fit to play the part assigned to them by
our law they will be able to do what a judge has to do

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

every time that he tries a case on the facts without them,
and we cannot say that he was wrong in thinking that the
men before him were competent for their task.
Objections similar to the last are taken to the conduct
of the district attorney. They are stated and argued, like
the last, with many details, which we have examined, but
think it unnecessary to reproduce. In his opening the
district attorney stated that the prisoner admitted that
a coat with soot marks upon it, and a gunner's badge
were his, and was going on to recite further statements,
when they were objected to. The district attorney answered that these were voluntary confessions, but that
he would omit them, if objected to, until the proper time,
and desisted. Objection was made to the word confessions, and the judge replied that he did not hear any
statement that the prisoner made any confession. No
instruction was asked, but, as we have said, the judge
told the jury that they were to regard only the evidence
admitted by him, not statements of counsel, etc. The
attempt to get in the evidence is criticised also as unduly
pressed. We see no reason to differ from the judge's
statement upon a motion for a new trial that the United
States attorney was guilty of no misconduct. The exceptions on this point also are overruled.
We will take up in this connection another matter not
excepted to but made one of the grounds for demanding
a new trial, and also some of its alleged consequences,
because they also involve the question how far the jury
lawfully may be trusted to do their duty, when the judge
is satisfied that they are worthy of the trust. The jurymen were allowed to separate during the trial, always
being cautioned by the judge to refrain from talking
about the case with anyone and to avoid receiving any
impression as to the merits except fromn the proceedings
in court. The counsel for the prisoner filed his own affidavit that members of the jury had stated to him that

HOLT v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they had read the Seattle daily papers with. articles on
the case while the trial was going on. He set forth articles
contained in those papers, and moved for a new trial.
The court refused to receive counter affidavits, but, assurning in favor of the prisoner that the jurors had read
the articles, he denied the motion. This court could not
make that assumption if the result would be to order a
new trial, but the probability that jurors,. if allowed to
separate, will see something of the public prints is so
obvious,. that for the purpose of passing on the permission
to separate it may be. assumed that they did so in this
case.
We are dealing with a motion for a new trial, the denial
of which cannot be treated as more than matter of discretion or as ground for reversal, except in very plain
circumstances indeed. Mattox v. United States, 146 U. S.
140. See Holmgren v. United States, 217 U. S. 509. It
would be hard to say that this case presented a sufficient
exception to the general rule. The judge did not reject
the affidavit, but decided against the motion on the assumption that more than it ventured to allege was true.
As 'to his exercise of discretion, it is to be remembered
that the statutes or decisions of many States expressly
allow the separation of the jury even in capital cases.
Other States have provided the contrary. The practice
has varied, with perhaps a slight present tendency in the
more conservative direction. If the mere opportunity
for prejudice or corruption is to raise a presumption that
they exist, it will be hard to maintain jury trial under the
conditions of the present day. Without intimating that
the judge did not go further than we should think desirable on general principles, we do not see in the facts
before us any. conclusive groud, for saying that his expressed belief that the trial was fair and that the prisoner
has nothing to complain of is wrong.
Several objections were taken to the admission and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

sufficiency of evidence. The first is merely an attempt to
raise technical difficulties about a fact which no one really
doubts, namely, that the band barracks, the undisputed
place of the crime, were within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States. A witness testified that they were
within the inclosure of Fort Worden under military guard
and control, from which all "unauthorized persons are
excluded, and that he knew that the fence was coincident
with the boundaries shown on a map objected to but
admitted. He identified the band barracks as described
in certain condemnation proceedings. The State of Washifigton had assented by statute to such proceedings
and Congress had authorized them. The deeds and condemhiation proceedings under which the United States
claimed title were introduced. The witness relied in part
upon the correctness of official maps in the Engineers'
Department made from original surveys under the authority of the War Department, but not within his personal knowledge, and he referred to a book showing the
titles to Fort Worden compiled under the same authority.
The documents referred to are not before us, but they
properly were introduced, and so far as we can see justified
the finding of.the-jury, even if the evidence of the de facto
exercise of exclusive jurisdiction was not enough, or if the
United States was called on to try title in a murder case.
We think it unnecessary to discuss this objection in
greater detail.
Another objection is based upon an extrayagant exteniion of the Fifth Amendment. A question arose as to
whether a blouse belonged to the prisoner. A witness
testified that the prisoner put it on aid it fitted him.
It is objected that he did this under the same duress that
made his statements inadmissible, and that it should be excluded for' the: same reasons. But the prohibition of compelling a man in a criminal court to be witness against
himself is a prohibition of the use of physical or moral

HOLT v. UNITED STATES.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

compulsion to extort communications from him, not an
exclusion of his body as evidence when it may be material.
The objection in principle would forbid a jury to look at a
prisoner and compare his features with a photograph in
proof. Moreover, we need not consider how far a court
would go in compelling a man to exhibit himself. For
when he is exhibited, whether voluntarily or by order,
and even if the order goes too far, the evidence, if material,
is competent. Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585.
The remaining exceptions relate to the charge. One
was to a refusal to embody an instruction requested as to
reasonable doubt. The court, however, gave full and
correct instructions on the matter, and indeed rather
anxiously repeated and impressed upon the jury the clearness of the belief they must entertain in order to convict.
See Dunbar v. United States, 156 U. S. 185, 199. 4 Wigmore, Evidence, ยง 2497. Another exception was to the
refusal to give an instruction that "the presumption of
innocence starts with the charge at the beginning of the
trial, and goes with [the accused] until the determination
of the case. This presumption of innocence is evidence
-in the defendant's favor," etc. The ijudge said: "The law
presumes innocence in all criminal prosecutions. We
begin with a legal presumption that the defendant, although accused, is an innocent man. Not that we take
that to be an absolute rule, but it is the principle upon
which prosecutions must be conducted; that the evidence
must overcome the legal presumption of innocence. And
in order to overcome the legal presumption, as I have
already stated, the evidence must be clear and convincing
and sufficiently strong to convince the jury beyond a
reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty," with
more to the same effect. This was correct, and avoided a
tendency in the closing sentence quoted from the request
to mislead. Agnew v. United *States,165 U. S. 36, 51, 52.
See also 4 Wigmore, Evidence, ยง 2511.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinioti of the Court.

218 U. S.

After the jury had been sent out they returned and.
asked the court what constituted a reasonable doubt. The
court replied, "A reasonable doubt is an actual doubt
that you are conscious of after going over in your minds
the entire case, giving consideration to all the testimony
and every part of it. If you then feel uncertain and not
fully convinced that the defendant is guilty, and believe
that you are acting in a reasonable manner, and if you
believe that a reasonable man in any matter of like.importance would hesitate to act because of such a doubt
as you are conscious of having, that is a reasonable doubt,
of which the defendant is entitled to have the benefit."
He denied the notion that any mere possibility was sufficient ground for such a doubt, and added that in the performance of jury service they should decide controversies
as they would any important question in their own affairs.
This was excepted to generally, and the court was asked
to add that if the jury found one fact inconsistent with
the guilt of the defendant they should acquit. The court
already had given this instruction in the charge, and was
not called upon to repeat it. As against a general excep*tion the instructions given were correct. Some other details in the trial are criticised, but we have dealt with all
that seem to us to deserve mention, and find no sufficient
reason why the judgment should not be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

