OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

2i8 U. S

since the pleadings did not raise that issue, and there
was not the slightest proof concerning it. While it is not
necessary, we deem it well to say that in reviewing the action of the court below we are, of course, confined to the
record and the case therein made, and may not, as the
result of mistaken suggestions as to the issues and proof
disregard our duty by deciding, not the case as made, but
an imaginary one, wherein issues not made and not
presented below would have to be supplied, and whereby
conjecture and surmise must be indulged to replace the
total absence of all proof on a particular subject. So far
as the unwarranted assumption concerning the subject
of possession relates to acts done after the deed to Mercado, it is also disposed of by what we have said, and is
besides completely answered by the express finding of
both courts concerning the absence of all proof of possession during that period.
Affirmed.

MOFFITT v. KELLY, TREASURER OF ALAMEDA
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
ERROR-TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 37.

Argued November 4, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

The Constitution of the United States does not, as a general rule, control the power of the.States to select and classify subjects for taxation; and -vested rights whieh cannot be impaired by subsequent
legislation may still be classified for, and subjected to, taxation.
A State may classify for taxation estates passing by will or intestacy
and include therein property held as community property by husband and wife at the tir e of the death of the husband and becoming completely vested in the wife, without violating either the

-

MOFFITT v. KELLY.
218 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

contract, due process, or equal protection provision of the Constitution; the mere fact that the wife had a preexisting right of property
creates no exemption from taxation if the selection of that class of
estates is legal.
In determining whether a tax imposed by a State is constitutional, this
court is not concerned with the designation of the tax or whether
the thing taxed may, or may not, have been mistakenly brought
within the law; it is confined solely to determining whether the State
has power to levy a tax on the subject taxed.
The nature and character of the right of a wife in community property
for the purpose of taxation is a peculiarly local question, and the
determination of the state court in r~gard thereto is not reviewable
by this court.
The law of California of 1905, tixing all property passing by will or
intestacy, having been construed by the highest court of that State
as applying to the surviving wife's share of the community property, this court holds that such tax is not in conflict with either the
contract, due process or equal protection clause of the Constitution
of the United States.
153 California, 359, affirmed.

JAME s MoFFi was married in California in the year
1863 and there resided with his wife until his death on
October 25, 1906. He left a large amount of property,
all of which formed part of the community which existed
between himself and his wife. By a will, duly admitted
to probate, Moffitt disposed of all his estate to his wife
and children in the same proportions as if he had died
intestate.
The probate court held that "the interest of the widow
in the community property of herself and her deceased
husband" was subject to be taxed under a law of California of 1905, which taxed all property passing by will
or in case of intestacy from any person who may die
seized or possessed of the same. A tax of $26,684.57 was
thereupon assessed as against Mrs. Moffitt's one-half interest in the estate and an order was entered directing
payment of the tax by the executors. An appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court of California. The single
VOL. ccxviix-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

question presented by the appeal, as stated in the opinion
of the Supreme Court, was "whether the surviving wife's
share of the community property is subject to this inThe question was answered in the
heritance tax."
affirmative. In an opinion denying an application for a
rehearing the court also adversely disposed of the contention that the enforcement of the tax would violate
the contract clause or the equal protection and due
process clauses of the Constitution of the United States.
153 California, 359. The case was then brought to this
court.
Mr. Warren Olney for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Robert A. Waring, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb,
Attorney General of the State of California, was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

While the plaintiffs in error rely on both the contract
clause and the equal protection clause of the Constitution, the latter contention is in substance but an incident,
and the former is the fundamental proposition cotinted
on to procure a reversal. We come, however, separately
to consider the two contentions.
1. The alleged violation of the contract clause.-Considered merely subjectively, the contention is that the rights
vested in the wife as a partner iii the community existing by virtue of the constitution and laws of the State
of California governing at the time of the marriage were
contractual rights of such a character that they could not
be essentially changed or modified by subsequent legislation without impairing the obligations of the contract, and
thereby violating the Constitution of the United States.

MOFFITT v. KELLY.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

But even although this theoretical proposition be fully conceded, for the sake of the argument, it is apparent that it
is here a mere abstraction, and is therefore irrelevant to the
case to be decided. We say this because there is no assertion of the giving effect to any law enacted subsequent to
the contracting of the marriage which purports to essentially modify the rights of the wife in and to the community, as those rights existed at the time the marriage was
celebrated. This is so because the state law, the enforcement of which it is asserted will impair the obligation of
the contract, is merely a law imposing a tax. It is evident,
therefore, when the contention is concretely considered, it
involves but a single proposition, that is, that the State of
California could not, without violating the Constitution of
the United States, impose a tax on the share of the wife
in the community property on the occasion of the cessation by the death of the husband of his dominion and
control over the common property and the consequent
complete vesting in enjoyment of such share in the wife.
But in every conceivable aspect this proposition must
rest upon one or both of two theories, either that the
nature and character of the right or interest was such
that the State could not tax it without violating the
Constitution of the United States, or that if it could be
generically taxed without violating that instrument, for
some particular reason the otherwise valid state power
of taxation could not be exerted without violating the
Constitution of the United States. The first conception
is at once disposed of by saying that it is elementary
that the Constitution of the United States does not,
generally speaking, control the power of the States to
select and classify subjects of taxation, and hence, even
although the wife's right in the community property
was a vested right which could not be impaired by subsequent legislation, it was, nevertheless, within the power
of the State, without violating the Constitution of the

OCTOBER TERM. 1910.
Oninion of the Court.

218 U. S.

United States, in selecting objects of taxation, to select
the vesting in complete possession and enjoyment by
wives of their shares in community property consequent
upon the death of their husbands, and th resulting cessation of their power to control the same and enjoy the
fruits thereof. And this also disposes of the second conception, since if the State had. the power, so far as the
Constitution of the United States was concerned, to
select the vesting of such right to possession and enjoyment as a subject of taxation, clearly the mere fact that
the wife had a preexisting right to the property created
no exemption from taxation if the selection for taxation
would be otherwise legal. It follows, therefore, that the
mere statement of the contention demonstrates the
mistaken conception upon which, in the nature of things,
it rests.
It is said, however, 6hat the reasoning just stated,
while it may be abstractly sound, is here inapplicable,
because the thing complained of in this case is that the
State of California has imposed an inheritance tax upon
the-share of the wife in the community and thereby taxed
her as an heir of her husband, when if the laws existing
at the time of the celebration of the marriage be properly
construed and be held to be contractual she took her
share of the property on her husband's death, not as an
heir to property of which he was the owner, but by virtue
of a right of ownership vested in her prior.t0 the death
of the husband, although the right to possess and enjoy
such property was deferred and arose only on his death.
But for the purpose of enforcing the Constitution of the
United 'States we are not concerned with the mere designafion affixed to the tax which the court below upheld, or
whether the thing or subject taxed may or may not have
been mistakenly brought within the state taxing law.
We say so because in determining whether the imposition
of the tax complained of violated the Constitution of the

MOFFITT v. KELLY.218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States, we are solely confined to considering
whether the State had the lawful power, without violating the Constitution. of the United States, to levy a tax
upon the subject or thing taxed. This being true, as it
clearly results from what we have said that the vesting
of the wife's right of possession and enjoyment arising
upon the death of her husband was subject to be taxed
by the State, so far as the Constitution of the United
States was concerned, it follows that whether the tax
imposed was designated or levied as an inheritance tax
or any other is a matter with which we have no concern.
To make this, if possible, clearer by an illustration we
say that our view just expressed as to the operation and
effect of the Constitution of the United States upon the
tax in question would not be in the slightest degree
changed, although it were to be hypothetically conceded
that on an analysis of the constitution and laws of California concerning the community between husband and
wife, in force at the time of the marriage of the Moffitts, we
should conclude that the nature and character of the
rights of the wife in the cormnunity property, if correctly
interpreted, were such that on the death of the husband
the share coming to the wife would not be liable to taxation under a taxing law like the one under consideration. This would be the case, because as there was state
power to tax, so far as the Constitution of the United
States was concerned, the question whether or not the
wife's interest under the circumstances was correctly
subjected to the tax was a purely state question not
involving any violation of the Constitution of the United
States, and which therefore we have no right to review.
The controlling effect of the reasoning which we have
just stated was pointed out and the mistaken conception
upon which the contentions of the plaintiffs in error rest
was indicated in Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S.: 674, 683.
2. The contention pressed in argument as to the equal

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

protection of the law clause substantially denies the
right of the State to impose any tax on the share of the
wife in the community property resulting from the termination of the community by the death of the husband,
or in substance assumes that we have the right to review
the action of the State court in deciding that the tax law
which it enforced was applicable. We say this because
the entire argument proceeds upon the contentibn that as

the share of the wife in the community property was a
vested interest during the life of the husband, it could
not on the death of the husband be taxed differently
from any other property, ,iz., according to value, with-

out violating the rennstitution of California and creating
an inequality repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. But this merely rests upon the mistaken conception previously dispos~d of, since the nature and character of the right of the wife in the comnmunity for the purpose of taxation was peculiarly a local question which
we have no power to review.
Affirmed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
COMMERCIAL MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAA'.
No. 15. Argued October 26, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Intercourse between the States by telegraph is interstate commerce.
Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Western Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.

While a state statute which imposes positive duties and regulates the
peiformance of business of a telegraph company is void as a direct
regulation of interstate commerce, as decided in Western Un. Tel.
Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, a statute which imposes no addi-

