DURYEA POWER CO. v. STERNBERGH.
218 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

DURYEA POWER COMPANY, BANKRUPT, v.
STERNBERGH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 29.

Argued November 2, 1910.-Decidpd November 14, 1910.

Section 25b of the Bankruptcy Law only gives a right of appeal to this
court from a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming or
reversing the order of the District Court, allowing or rejecting a
claim when the decision is final, whether there is a certificate under
§ 25b, 2 or not. A de cision simply allowing or disallowing a claim
for voting purposes without prejudice to its subsequent presentation
is not final but provisional.
No appeal lies to this court from a decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in the exercise of supervisory jurisdiction in bankruptcy
matters. Nor can a petition for revision to that court be turned into
an appeal.
A petition for revision opens only questions of law while an appeal
opens both fact and law.
Appeal from 161 Fed. Rep. 540; 88 C. C. A. 482, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the Bankruptcy Law, and the jurisdiction
of this court of appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg, vxith whom Mr. Clarence A.
Brandenburg, Mr. F. Walter Brandenburg, Mr. Andrew A.
Leiser and Mr. Thomas K. Leidy were on the brief, for,
appellant.
Mr. Cyrus G. Derr, with whom Mr. John G. Johnson
was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arose on a controversy as to the right of the
appellee, Sternbergh, to vote on the selection of a trustee
in bankruptcy. Ai the first meeting of the creditors
Sternbergh offered for allowance a proof of claim for
$14,438.86, which was objected to on the ground that
Sternbergh was indebted to the bankrupt company for
unpaid stock. Sternbergh announced that he intended
to use this claim for voting purposes. After a hearing the
referee refused to allow the claim for use in the election
and certified the facts, as Sternbergh's vote, if allowed,
would have elected a different trustee. The District
Judge stated the question to be whether the referee was
right in rejecting the claimant's offer to vote and that it
*did not -involve the extent but only the fact of Sternbergh's liability, and he affirmed the action of the referee.
Thereupon Sternbergh filed a petition to the Circuit Court
of Appeals seeking a revision of the decree in matter of
law under § 24b of the Bankruptcy Law. That court, remarking that the facts were not in dispute, proceeded to
discuss their significance and effect and reversed the
decree, but allowed the selection of trustee to stand, as
no .allegation was -made against him.

The bankrupt

through the trustee appealed to this court, obtaining a
certificate from a Justice of this court under §25b, 2..
The first question to be answered is whether this is a
case in which a party is entitled to take an appeal to this
court under § 25. And clearly it is not. The right of appeal from a decisiohi of a Circuit Court of Appeals allowing or rejecting a claim is given by § 25b only where the
decision is final, whether there is a certificate under § 25b, 2
or not. 'The Circpit Court of Appeals may render a final
decision when an appeal is taken to it under § 25a from a
judgment allowing. or rejecting a. claim of five hundred
dollars or over. But •this case did not and could not have

DURYEA POWER CO. v. STERNBERGH.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

come to it in that way, for there was no judgment allowing
or rejecting the claim. The Referee's order was "tl*
within claim is disallowed for the present, especially as to
voting, without prejudice to the claimant's right to
present the claim hereafter." That is the order that was
reviewed by the District Court and that was affirmed by
it. Therefore Sternbergh's counsel, rightly apprehending
that they could not appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, brought their petition for revision under § 24b,
alleging that the District Judge erred in matter of law in
confirming the order of the referee refusing to allow the
claim of Sternbergh to be filed for voting upon the election
of trustee. This is all that was brought before the Circuit
Court of Appeals and all that it had authority to decide.
Its decision, although directing the District Court to
allow the petitioner to prove his claim, was not a final
decision upon that point, and did not come to it in such a
way that it could be. It simply reversed the provisional
order of the referee and made a provisional, though seemingly useless order, the other way'
No appeal to this court lies from a decision in the exercise of supervisory jurisdiction. Holden v. Stratton, 191
U. S. 115. But it is said that the Circuit Court of Appeals treated this case as an appeal; that it did not follow
the findings of the referee and the court below, as it was
bound to do on a revisory proceeding; that it filed a statement of the facts found and of its conclusion of law, as
required in an appeal by General Orders 36, 3, and that a
Justice of this court allowed an appeal from its decision,
which, as we have said, does not lie from an order or
decree under § 24b. It is argued that an appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals may be treated as a petition for
revision, Holden v. Stratton, 191 U. S. 115, 119, and that
conversely a petition for revision may be turned into an
appeal, or,- at least, treated as one for the purpose of an
appeal to this court, if only to establish.that the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

Court of Appeals exceeded its jurisdiction. There are
two answers to this contention. In the first place, the
converse proposition does not hold. An appeal opens both
fact and law, and therefore might+e regarded as intended
to raise questions of law in any way that might be deemed
proper. But a petition for revision opens only questions
of law, and when the foundation of its jurisdiction is thus
narrowed, the action of the court cannot enlarge it so as
to deal with the facts. In the next place, in this case the
Circuit Court of Appeals made no such attempt. It
treated the facts as undisputed, and differed from the
court below only in its understanding of their significance
and legal import. It filed no finding of facts at or before
the time of entering its decree as required by the General
Orders, but did so only two months after the decree had
been entered, and a month after an appeal had been taken
and allowed by a Justice of this court, upon a petition of
the appellant.
We have considered the suggestion that if the appeal
should be dismissed a certiorari should be granted, but
we are of opinion that no ground is shown for the issue of
the writ.
Appeal dismissed.

LING SU FAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 20.

Argubd October 27, 1910 -Decided

November 14, 1910.

On writ of error the errors considered must be only those of law, and
this court cannot consider sufficiency of evidence to convict if it is
conceded that there *as any evidence at all.
Sections 1 and 2 of law No. 1411 of the Philippine Commission, proIiibiting exportation of Philippine silver coin from the Philippine

