OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

than the estimates of the School Board, and the contention was that the City Council was bound to levy for the
full amount of the latter, and that the plaintiffs in error
are entitled to demand a levy for the difference between
the two now. The contrary decision was natural enough
on the face of the act of 1873, and is corroborated by the
consideration of other statutes before and after 1873,
to which we think it unnecessary to refer. It also is said
that a part of the tax levied was not collected. But that
was not a ground stated in the petition, and is not a matter with which we have any concern, We do not go into
the matter of laches beyond noting that this petition
was not filed until 1907. Whether the long delay was
sufficiently explained or not was for the state court to
decide.
Writ of error dismissed.

HARLAN v. McGOURIN, MARSHAL.
GALLAGHER v. THE SAME.
APPEALS

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 378, 379.

Argued October 11, 12, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

The writ of habeas corpus cannot be used for purposes of proceedings
in error; the jurisdiction under the writ is confined to determining
from the record whether the petitioner is deprived of his liberty
without authority of law. Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 84; Greene v.
Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, distinguished.
A collateral attack on the judgment under which petitioner in habeas

HARLAN v. McGOURIN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

corpus proceedings is detained is only permitted where the o jections if sustained would render the judgment not erroneous but void.
Under the statutes of the United States relative to the terms of the
Circuit Court the term. of court at which the petitioners were convicted was -properly held.
Objections to the 6rder impanellihg the grand jury on the ground that
the judge was not in the district at the time, although within his
circuit, must be raised by proper pleas in the court of original ju-"
risdiction; they cannot be raised on habeas corpus after conviction.
Objections that competent testimony was not presented to, or that
the indictment -under which petitioner was convicted was not regularly found by, the grand jury, cannot be made for the first time
in a habeas corpus proceeding.
Where, the sentence exceeds the authority of the court at most only
ihe excess will be Void; the legal portion of the sentence cannot be
attacked on that ground in kabeas corpus proceedings.

THE facts, which involve the validity of the conviction

and sentence of the appellants, and the power of the court
to review the proceedings on habeas corpus, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Win. W. Flournoy for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Harr for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These appeals are from judgments rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Florida discharging a writ of habeas corpus and remanding the prisoners to the custody of the United States
marshal.
The petitioners in the original habeas corpus proceedings, appellants here, were convicted in the United States
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Florida of
conspiring to hold, arrest and return one Rudolph Lanninger to a condition of peonage, in violation of § 5440

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of the Revised Statutes of the United States. The
offense of returning to a condition of peonage is defined
by § 5526 of the Revised Statutes, Petitioners were
sentenced to imprisonment for different terms and to
pay pecuniary fines.
The record discloses that the original cases in which
appellants were convicted and sentenced were taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upon
writs of error, and the judgments of conviction affirmed.
Afterwards petitions for writs of certiorari to bring the
cases to this court from the Circuit Court of Appeals
were denied in this court, 214 U. S. 519. Thereafter, the
prisoners being in the.custody of the United States marshal
under the sentences imposed, fied their petitions for writs
of habeas corpus, and, the cases being heard in the Circuit
Court of the United States, a judgment was entered dismissing the writs. 180 Fed. Rep. 119. The cases were
then brought here by appeal.
From this statement it will appear that the appellants
were convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of the
alleged offense charged in the indictment; that a trial
was had before a court and jury, which was reviewed by
proper proceedings in error in the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit, and that this court declined to grant
a writ of certiorari to review the judgment of the latter
court.
The cases have been earnestly and elaborately argued
here by counsel for appellants, upon the theory that in a
proceeding of this character the court may inquire into
the facts put in evidence at the trial, at least so far as is
necessary to determine whether there was any inculpating testimony, and for that purpose may examine the
bill of exceptions, which is appended ta the petition, and
which was originally taken for the purpose of bingirag
the voluminous testimony in the cases into the .record
in order that a review might be had by the appellate court'

HARLAN v. McGOURIN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that an examination of the bill of exceptions will disclose. that the alleged conspiracy was not
formed in the Northern District of Florida as laid in .the
indictment; that there is a total lack of evidence to connect the petitioners with any such conspiracy; that the
petitioners (notably the petitioner Harlan) are not shown
by any competent testimony to have been concerned in
any overt act for the carrying out of the alleged conspiracy; that it is not shown that there is any condition
of peonage in which Lanninger had been detained and to
.which he could be returned, in violation of § 5526 of the
Revised Statutes of the United' States. In other words,
..in this feature of the case this' court is asked to review
the testimony adduced at the trial, with a view to determining the lack of evidence in the record to support the
verdict and judgment, although such matters were properly. reviewable,, and were in fact reviewed, in the error
proceedings already referred to.
It is the settled doctrine of this court, often affirmed,
that the writ of habeas corpus cannot be used for the purpose of proceedings , in error, and that the jurisdiction
under that writ is confined to an examination of the
record, with a view to determining whether the person
restrained of his liberty is detained without authority
of law. Gonzales v. Cunningham, 164 U. S. 612, 621; In re
Schneider, 148 U. S. 162; Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132,
136; Hoy Toy v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542, 548; In re Wilson,
Petitioner, 140 U. S. 575, 582.
But it is contended that two recent cases in this court
are authority for the proposition that in a collateral
attack by a habeas corpus proceeding, while the weight
of testimony cannot be examined into, the record may be
investigated with a view of determining whether there is
any testimony to support the accusation, and where there
is an entire lack of evidence the court may order a discharge, and language to this effect is referred to in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

opinion in Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 84, wherein the learned
justice, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "In the
Federal courts, however, it is well settled that upon
habeas corpus the court will not weigh the evidence,
although if there is an entire lack of evidence to support
the accusation the court may order his discharge."
That case was a proceeding in habeas corpus to attack
the validity of an order made under § 1014 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States for the removal of the petitioner from the State of California to the District of
Columbia for trial upon an indictment found in the District. In that case it was contended that inasmuch as
§ 1014 requires proceedings for the removal of persons
from one district to another to be agreeable to the usual
mode of process against defendants in such State, and as
in the State of California where the prisoner was arrested,
the Supreme Court had held that the question of probable
cause of the prisoner's guilt might be -considered upon
the writ~of habeas corpus it necessarily followed that such
should be the course of procedure in the Federal courts.
In answer to this contention the language above quoted
was used. In so stating, the learned justice, speaking for
the court, was but affirming the rule well established
under § 1014, that there must be some testimony before
the commissioner to support the accusation in order to
lay the basis for an order of removal, otherwise the accused could be discharged upon habeas.corpus, although
the court' would not weigh the evidence where the record
shows that some evidence was taken. This was the construction of § 1014 in Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, 261.
In Greene v. Henkel, Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for
the court, said: "There must be some competent evidence
to show that an offense has been committed over which
the court in the other district had jurisdiction, and that
the defendant is the individual named in that charge. and
that there is probable cause for believing him guilty of the

HARLAN v. McGOURIN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

offense charged." In the case of Hyde v. Shine the Justice was but declaring the rule, already recognized and enforced under § 1014 of the Revised Statutes.
So in the other case relied upon, Tinsley v. Treat, 205
U. S. 20, it was held, under ,the circumstances shown,
that a prisoner would be released upon habeas corpus
where the proceedings were under § 1014 of the Revised
Statutes. It was held that while an indictment constitutes prima facie evidence of the offense, when the
defendant offered to show that no offense had been committed triable in the district to which removal was sought,
the exclusion of such evidence was not mere error, but a
denial of a right secured under the Federal Constitution
to be tried in the State and district where the alleged
offense was committed, and therefore reviewable under
habeas corpus proceedings. Neither Hyde v. Shine nor
Tinsley v. Treat is authority for the proposition that a
writ of habeas corpus can be made the basis of a review of
the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction where
proceedings were had under a constitutional statute
giving the court authority to examine into the charges
and to convict or acquit the accused, when the proceedings show no attempt to exert the jurisdiction of the
court inexcess of its authority.
The learned counsel for appellants rely upon a number
of -cases which are said to warrant the court in habeas
corpus proceedings in examining the bill of exceptions
with a view to determining such matters as are herein
presented. But an examination of these cases will show
that where collateral attacks have been sustained through
the medium of a writ of habeas corpus, the grounds were
such as attacked the validity of the judgments, and the
objections sustained were such as rendered the judgment
not merely erroneous, but void. In Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163, the court undertook to impose a second punishment where it had already exhausted its power in

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

imposing one of the alternative penalties allowed by law.
In In re Snow, 120 U. S. 274, the record disclosed that it
was sought to impose a second punishment for the same
offense. In In re Bain, 121 U. S. 1, it was held that the
court was without power to order an amendment of the
indictment without a suibmission of the case to the grand
jury, and that subsequent proceedings upon an indictment thus changed were Nithout jurisdiction. In Hans
Nielsen, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 176, it was held that the
court exceeded its authority in undertaking to pass the
particular sentence imposed. We find nothing in these
cases to conflict with the well-established rule in this
court that the writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to
perform the office of a writ of error.
If such would be its effect then this court could readily
be converted into an appellate court in criminal proceedings, a'jurisdiction denied to it by the statute. No attack
can be successfully made upon the right and authority
of the Circuit Court of the United States to take jurisdiction of the offense charged in the indictmeft. No
objection is made to the constitutionality of the statute
or the right, and authority of the court to consider and
determine the guilt or innocence of the accused, and
for that purpose to weigh and determine the effect of the
testimony offered. The contention is that in the respects
pointed out the testimony wholly fails to support the
charge. The attack is thus not upon the, jurisdiction
and authority of the court to proceed to investigate and
determine the truth of the charge, but upon the sufficiency
of the evidence to show the guilt of the accused. This
has never been held to be within the province of a writ of
habeas corpus. Upon habeas corpus the court examines
only the power and authority of the court to act, not the
correctness of its conclusions. See, among other cases in
this court, Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38; Ex parte
Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 306; Davis v. Beason, 133 U. S. 333;

HARLAN v. McGOURIN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ex parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18, 22, 23; Kaizo v. Henry, 211
U. S. 146, 148.
We.will proceed then to examine such of the objections
as go to the authority of the court to try and sentence the
accused. It is insisted that the trial in the Circuit Court
of the United States at Pensacola, Florida, was without
jurisdiction, because the trial took place when the court
had no lawful authority to sit, as it was not held at any
legal term of court. It is contended that the right to hold
a term at Pensacola because of the proceedings disclosed
in the record had ended before the accused were tried at
the session beginning in November, 1906. It appears
that the regular term of court at Pensacola commenced
on March 3, 1906, continued in session until May 12, 1906.
The clerk of the court testified that the court was in session in Tallahassee, held by the same judge as held the
odurt at Pensacola, on May 13, 14, 15 and 16, 1906. It
appears that the clerk was in the habit of using a rubber
stamp for the purpose of evidencing the adjournments of
the court, and also the adjournments from day to day
when the court was, not present. These adjournments
appear -to have been in accordance with a rule of the
court, which provides that during the temporary absence
of the judge the court shall be deemed open daily at each
of the clerk's offices in the district for the transaction
of business on the equity side of the court, and also for
the filing of papers, and the transaction of business of a
general character in court, and the clerk shall be present,
in person or by deputy, and the record of the same shall
be entered upon the minutes of the court.
Such adjournments were had from June 6, 1906, the
last day the judge was present at Pensacola, until he
returned to the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Florida in November, 1906, subsequent to which time
the indictment, trial and conviction of the appellants took
place. The argument of the appellants comes to thisVOL. ccxviii--29

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

that as there was. no legal adjournment of the term' at
Pensacola to a day certain when the court proceeded to
hold the term at Tallahassee there was no legal authority
to resume the sitting of the court at Pensacola in Noyember, and consequently there was no legal term of the court
at which the proceeding resulting in the conviction of the
accused could be had.
But we cannot agree to this contention. The statutes
of the United States provide for two terms of the United
States Circuit. Court for the Northern District of Florida,
the one beginning on the first Monday of February at
Tallahassee, the other the first Monday in March at
Pensacola. 1 U. S. Comp. Stats. 531. Section 612 of the
Revised Statutes provides that the Circuit Courts of the
United States can be held at the same time in .different
districts of the same circuit. Section 672 provides that if
neither of the judges of the Circuit Court be present to
open and adjourn any regular or adjourned special session,
either of them may, by a written order, directed alternatively to the marshal, and in his absence, to the clerk,
adjourn the court from time to time, as the case may
require, to any time before the next regular term. We
think the purpose of the law was to provide for statutory
terms of court for the Northern District of Florida, beginning on the first Monday of February and March
respectively, which term should continue until the beginning of the next term, unless finally adjourned in the
meantime. Such is the general and recognized practice
in the Circuit Courts of the United States. East Tenn.
Iron & Coal Co. v. Wiggin, 68 Fed. Rep. 446.

There was certainly no adjournment of the court for
the term when the judge was absent holding court at Tallahassee, or was out of the State. There was an attempt
at least to keep the court open pending the absence of
the presiding judge by the adjournments in pursuance
of Rule XIII.

HIARLAN v. McGOURIN.
218 IT. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Nor do we find anything in the objections made to the
manner in which the record of the sessions was kept,
which it is unnecessary to examine in further detail, it
being sufficient to say that we think the court that sat in
November, 1906, was legally in session, with authority to
proceed against the accused.
It is next objected that the order for the impanelling of
the grand jury was made by a judge of the Circuit Court
for the Fifth Circuit, who, although within his circuit,
was not within the district where the court was located
when the trial was had. If there were otherwise merit
in this objection, it certainly could not ,be made on habeas
corpus. Such objections must be made by proper pleas
filed in the court of original jurisdiction. Kaizo v. Henry;
211 U. S. 146, 149.
It is contended that competent testimony was adduced
to show that the indictments were not properly presented
by the grand jury, in that the one under which the accused
was tried was not regularly found by the grand jury nor
voted upon by them.. Testimony was introduced to the
effect that after the. presentation of the original indictment the grand jury were informed by the district attorney that the indictment needed amendment in some particular, this amendment was read over in the presence
of the grand jury, was incorporated into an indictmnent,
the indictment was regularly returned into court, where
it was produced with the consent of all the grand jurors.
No objection was taken at the trial to the indictment for
this reason, and upon proper pleas a trial and conviction
were had; certainly an objection of that kind, if ever
available, cannot be.made for the first time in a habeas
corpus proceeding.
It was objected in the court below that the original
sentence exceeded the authority of the court, in that it
required service at hard labor. Upon motion of the Government's counsel that much of the sentence was stricken

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

out. There is no contention that hard labor has been,
or will be, imposed upon the. appellants, and, at most,
only that part of the sentence in excess of the law will be
void. United States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48.
We find no error in the judgments of the Circuit Court
in refusing to release the petitioners upon the writs of
habeas corpus, and the same will be affirmed.
Affirmed,

UNITED STATES v. ANSONIA BRASS AND
"COP'PER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 458.

Argued October 18, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Where the United States claimed in an action in the state court to determine liens on vessels in course of construction, that, under the
contract, title had vested in the United States, or that liens had been
specially reserved thereon, and also claimed that the rights of the
United States were superior to all others and could not be retarded
or impeded by the state lien law, assertions are made of rights and
immunities which are the creation of Federal authority, and, if denied by the state court, this court has jurisdiction under § 709, Rev.
Stat., to review the judgment.
Stipulations entered into by the United States district attorney to obtain possession of vessels in course of construction and seized by j udicial proceedings under state law should not, under §§ 3753, 3754,
Rev. Stat., be construed as depriving the United States of any rights
asserted under the contracts for constructing such vessels.
Construing the three contracts for construction of vessels involved in
this case, the court construes one contract as vesting title in the
United States as the work progressed and the others as not giving
the United States a superior lien'on the uncompleted vessel as work
progressed: in regard to the one contract, the state lien law does. not,
and in regard to the other contract such law does, apply.

