OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

INTERSTATt COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
BURNHAM,

HANNA, MUNGER DRY GOODS
COMPANY v. SAME.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 663, 664.

Argued April 5, 6, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

The Interstate Commerce Commision having made an order reducing
rates between Mississippi River points and Missouri River cities,
the railroad companies brought suit to enjoin the enforcement of
the order, claiming that it was made not for the were purpose of
fixing just rates but for the purpose of artificially apportioning the
country into zones tributary to trade centers, which was beyond the
power of the Commission. The claim was made that the rates as
reduced were confiscatory within the meaning of the Fifth Amend-

ment. The Circuit Court so held and enjoined, the rate.' On appeal
'to this court held: that:

The Interstate Commerce Commission did not base its order on an
effort to apportion the country into zones tributary to trade centers
and to build up new trade centers.
The outlook of the Interstate Commerce Commission and its powers
are greater than the interests of the railroads, and are as comprehensive as the interesis of the entire country.
The Interstate Commerce Commission was instituted to prevent discrimination between persons and places. Rates may not only be
investigated and pronounced unreasonable or discriminatory but
other rates may be prescribed.
The power of the Interstate Commerce Commission extends to the
regulation of rates whether the same be old or new, notwithstanding
that interests attached to the rates may have to be changed in ease
the Commission exercises its power.
Railroad companies may complain of an order of the Commission reducingrates so far as it affects their revenue. They cannot complain
of itsimply because it affects shippers or places.

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 89
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The primary jurisdiction as to fixing rates under the Interstate Commerce Act is with the Commission and the power of the court is,
confined to. a review of questions of constitutional power exercised
by the Commission.
In this case the only question being as to power and the rates not being
confiscatory and the Commission having acted within its power, the
case is remanded with, instructions to dismiss the bill.
171 Fed. Rep. 680, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of certain orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission affecting railroad freight rates to points known as Missouri River
cities, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis and Mr. Luther M. Walter, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, with whom Mr.
Edwin P. Grosvenor, Special Assistant to the Attlrney
General, for the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants in No. 663.
Mr. John H. Atwood and Mr. John Lee Webster, with
whom Mr. George T. Bell was on the brief, for appellants
in No. 664.
Mr. William D. McHugh and Mr. Colin C. H. Fyffe
for appellees.
Mr. Frederick Manley Ives and Mr. Everett M. Burdett
filed a brief as amici curice on behalf of the Boston Chamber of Commerce and certain other business organizations.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in the case is the validity of an order ol
the Interstate Commerce Commission reducing the class
rates charged" by the appellee railroad *companies on
through freight shipped from the Atlantic seaboard to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S:

Kansas City, and St. Joseph, Missouri, and Omaha,
Nebraska, cities on the Missouri River and called throughout the record, and in this opinion, Missouri River cities.
2_ 3
4 5.
The through class rates were
from wli20 1 W R in
I 2
3 reduced
4 5
cents per. 100 pounds to i ,
.. The numbers above
the lines indicate the classes and the numbers below the
lines the rates.
The reduction was made in that part of -the through rate
which applied to the haul between the Mississippi and
Missouri Rivers. Explaining its order of reduction, the
Commission said. the through rates from Atlantic seaboard terminals to the Missouri River cities are made by
adding together the rates from points.of origin to the
Mississippi River crossings, using proportional rates when
such were available, and the local rates from the Mississippi crossings to the Missouri River cities. The through
rates the Commission pronounced to be unreasonably
high, "because those portions of the through rates which
apply between the Mississippi River crossings and the
Missouri River cities are too high. These are defepdants'
'separately established rates,' which-are 'applied to the
through transportation,' and, therefore, the through rates
should be adjusted by reduction of those factors or parts
thereof which are found to be unreasonable."
The division of the rates as established by the railroad
was as follows: From New York to the several. Mississippi
River crossings on traffic moving through them to points
beyond, in cents per 100 pounds, 81 i. i, . From the
Mississippi
River crossings to the Missouri River cities,
1234
,53 2f .. The latter are local class fates under the Western
classification, and are those which the Commission adjudged too high, and which it reduced in cents per 100
pounds, to the following: ' 2 - -,4. [ The amount of reduction, it will be observed, is nine cents .on first-class freight.
and a nroportional reduction on the other four classes.
The order of the Commission required the 'railroad

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v.CM.., R. I. & PAC. ItY. 91
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

companies to cease and desist on or before the twenty;
fifth of August, 1908, from charging, demanding or collecting anything in excess of the rates last above set out, and
the companies were required to put such rates in force
before the twenty-fifth of August, 1908, and maintain
them for a period of not less than two years.
The proceedings before the Commission were begun by
a petition filed by appellants in case No. 664, who were
doing business in Kansas City and St. Joseph, Missouri,
and Omaha, Nebraska. They alleged that they were engaged' in either the mercantile or manufacturing business,
and in buying and selling various commodities shipped
from the Atlantic seaboard to them, respectively, under
the definite freight classifications maintained by the railroad companies. The rates, according to the classifications, from New York to St. Paul and Minneapolis and
rates from New York to Chicago, and from the latter city
to Kansas City, St. Joseph and Omaha, the petition alleged,
"are arrived at by adding to the rates from Mississippi
River points, as shown above, the following rates subject
to official classification, to wit: 87c, 75c, 58c, 41c and 35c
per hundred pounds for said five classes, respectively;
that the aforesaid through rates, applying from New
York to Kansas City, are observed by defendant carriers
on traffic moving by way of Chicago; that in the division
of said through rates from Atlantic seaboard to said three
Missouri River cities, Kansas City, St. Joseph and Omaha,
each of said defendant railroad companies allows and pays
to said Eastern connections 72.3c, 62.4c, 48.4c, 34.3c and
29.4c per hundred pounds on the said five classes, respectively; and charges, accepts and retains as their respective
shares of said through rates updn the several classes aforesaid 74.7c, 57.6c, 44.6c, 33;7c and 27.6c per hundred
)ounds."
A table showing the distance of the various roads from
New York to St. Paul and Minneapolis, and the Missouri

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

River cities is given, which shows that the distances are
not materially different, and also show3 distances west
of Chicago.
It is alleged that the rates charged and the classifications enforced by the company for the transportation of
property from the Atlantic seaboard and other producing
territory to the Missouri River cities "are in themselves
unreasonable and relatively unjust, unfair and prejudicial
as compared with rates from the same territory to St.
Paul and Minneapolis," though the volume or tariff and
the cost of handling it is not greater. Discrimination is
alleged, with a detail of circumstances, against the Missouri River cities and the violation of the Interstate
Commerce Act.
What are conceived to be reasonable rates are set out,
and that the rates charged are alleged to be discriminatory
against the complainants, and are excessive and unreasonable in and of themselves, because higher and greater
than enough to pay the cost of transportation and main-,
tenance and a fair profit on the valuation of the property
employed.
The railroad companies filed separate answers, in which
they admitted the charges and rates set out in the petition
and the division thereof, but denied discrimination in
favor of St. Paul and Minneapolis against the Missouri
River cities and alleged competitive conditions, existing
as to the first-named cities. They denied that the rates
from the Atlantic seaboard to the last-named cities suggested by the petitioners would be reasonable or just, or
that the rates charged are unduly high or excessive or
discriminate against the Missouri River cities or the
petitioners.
The Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company filed
an amended answer, in which it alleged that the complaint
related to the through rates from the Atlantic seaboard
to the Missouri River cities, and that they were alleged to

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 93
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be unfair and prejudicial compared to rates to St. Paul
and Minneapolis, and "unreasonable and excessive in and
of themselves." And, further, that the rates had been
fixed and established by the railroad companies by virtue
of joint traffic agreements, and had been duly filed, posted
and published by the companies, and that all the companies to such agreements were necessary parties. Fifty
or more companies were named.
The EAstern companies, (those operating east of Chicago), answering, denied- that there was any agreement
between them and the original respondents for the shipment and division of through rates between the Atlantic
seaboard and St. Paul and Minneapolis, and alleged that
in conjunction with their several connections they receive
to Chicago the same rate in cents per hundred pounds as
applied upon like tariff originating at the same points of
origin and terminating at Chicago, and are not concerned
with the rates or proportional rates charged or accepted
by the different carriers from Chicago to St. Paul or
Minneapolis. They also denied that they were parties to
any joint tariff of class rates from the Atlantic seaboard
to the Missouri River cities. They admitted participation
in joint through class rates to Mississippi River points
and denied that they, however, were unreasonable or'
unjust in or of themselves or as respectively applied to
shipments destined to St. Paul or Minneapolis or shipments destined to points west of the Mississippi River.
They further alleged as follows:
"That the rates from New York city to East St. Louis,
Illinois, are computed at 116 per cent of the rates from
New York to Chicago according to relative distances,
that the rates from New York to East St. Louis are part
of a general structure of rates whereby all rates from New
York and other Eastern points to points in the States of
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Kentucky
and Wisconsin, and the Province of Ontario are made

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

upon the bases of percentages of the rates from the points
of origin to Chicago; that the said rates for the first five
classes governed by the official classification from New
York to East St. Louis of 87c, 75c, 58c, 41c and 35c per
hundred pounds, respectively, are applied as proportional
rates to the various Mississippi River crossings north of
East St. Louis, to and including East Dubuque, Illinois,
and that from other Eastern points than New York city
the rates to East St. Louis apply equally to said Mississippi River crossings, and all of such rates to said Mississippi River crossings apply uniformily upon all shipments
destined to all points west of the Mississippi River and
east of Pacific coast terminals and points taking the same
rates. Respondents allege that all of the rates from
Eastern points to said Mississippi River crossings are just
and reasonable in and of themselves and as applied to
shipments destined to any point west of the Mississippi
River and east of Pacific coast terminals."
They alleged that the rates to the Mississippi River
crossings are governed by the Official classification, and
those from the latter crossings to the Missouri River
points are governed by the Western classification, and
that innumerable articles are differently classified in such
classifications. That it would be impossible to establish
joint through rates on the basis set out in the petition
without simultaneously applying the official classification
to all traffic from all Eastern points and all points interinediate between the rivers and establishing relative
through class rates from all such Eastern points to all such
intermediate points between the ri.vers, and that this
would require a general revision and reduction of rates,
which would cause great hardship and irreparable injury
to the respondents and other interstate carriers not
parties to the proceeding.
Itis alleged that the reasonableness of the rates from
Eastern points to Chicago and to the Mississippi River is

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 95
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not questioned by petitioners, and that- the grievance of
the latter, if they have any, lies in the rates applied by
the original respondents from Chicago and the Mississippi
River crossings to the Missouri River cities on shipments
originating at Eastern points. They hence prayed to be
dismissed. They were subsequently dismissed.
The Sioux City Commerical Club intervened and supported the petition, and prayed that whatever should be
done for the other Missouri River cities should be done
for Sioux City. The St. Paul Jobbers and Manufacturers

Association and the Minneapolis Commercial Club intervened and in substance coincided with the views and
interest of the defendant carriers.
A great deal of testimony was taken and the order made
which has been recited. The appellee companies then
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, for a
t~mporary and permanent injunction against the order,
that it be annulled, and the Interstate Commerce Commission be enjoined from enforcing it. A temporary injunction was granted. It was made permanent on final
hearing, the court dividing. 171 Fed. Rep. 680.
The pleadings in the case are very voluminous. They
consist of the bill of the railroad companies, the answers
to it by the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
intervening petitions of certain other railroad companies,
and mercantile and manufacturing concerns.
Even a summary of the pleadings would be very long
and we shall, therefore, say but little more than that .the
allegations of the bill and those of the answer of the Commission and its denials are such as tend to the support of
the respective contentions of the companies and the Commission, upon which we shall hereafter comment. We
may, however, say further that emphasis is given to certain matters. The companies make prominent that two
classifications of freight are in force upon which tariff rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

are based, the .Official classification from the Atlantic seaboard to the Mississippi River and the Western classification, between the river and the Missouri River cities;
that the classifications materially differ and constrain different rates; that those between the rivers are just and
reasonable and apply to all merchandise, whatever be its
point of origin. That business conditions have grown up
and are dependent upon the rates established, Which will
be disturbed by their alteration; that their alteration as
required by the order of the Commission will compel a
discrimination between shippers and localitieS, to do which
is in excess of the. powers of the Commission.
It is alleged that the ratds are fair compared to the cost
of service, absolutely and relatively, and that the rates
east of the Mississippi River are not changed, the order
affecting alone the proportion of the through rates charged
by the complainant carriers, and will compel new through'
rates, which will not affect the proportion thereof received by the Eastern carriers.
And it is alleged that the Commission only has power
to establish, after hearing on complaint, through rates and
joint rates and prescribe the just and reasonable proportions of cuch rates between the carriers only when they
(the carriers) fail. to agree upon the proportion or division
thereof, and that there was no evidence that they had
failed to agree upon such rates or the proportion. and divisions thereof, and that, therefore, the order exceeds the
power of the Commission and deprives the companies of
their property without due process of law, in violation of
the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
It is further alleged that there was no evidence that the
rates between the rivers are unjust or unreasonable, except by comparison with other rates; that no evidence was
offered of cost of service or of the various elements proper
to be considered in determining whether a rate is just and

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 97
Opinion ofuthe Court.

218 U.S.

reasonable in and of itself, and that "the whole and only
reason and the whole and only conclusion" of the Commission upon which the reduction was ordered was because the Commission decided that merchandise shipped
from the Atlantic seaboard should be transported by the
companies at a lower charge than that exacted for the
transportation of an equal amount of merchandise when
the same was shipped from St. Louis, Chicago or other
points west of the Atlantic seaboard. And this, it alleged,
is in excess of the powers of the Commission, misapplies
the law, and compels the companies to serve a certain
class of shippers at an unreasonable rate, and to take a
rate lower than is charged other shippers for a like service,
which involves less expense to the companies.
A loss of revenue is alleged, which will result in a deprivation of their property without due process of law,
and that the enforcement of the order, even if it be finally
set aside, will cause great disturbance to the business of
the companies.
The Commission meets those points with denials of the
facts alleged and their consequences, and opposes them as
well by other facts and considerations.
It asserts that the bill has no equity because all the
matters and things set forth therein are cognizable before
it (the Commission), and it has the power to suspend,
modify or amend its order as upon aproper showing might
be proper; that it has information for such action, for under the law the operation and operating results of each
railroad is required to be filed with it, "and the subject
is under constant investigation." And in such investigation, it was alleged, many elements must enter, and that
the fixed charges of maintenance and operation and the
cost of operation and handling of different classes of
freight, state and interstate, hauled on, the same train,
widely different in character and value, cannot mathematically be determined so as to apportion to each class
VOL. ccxvi-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of traffic its proper division of costs, and that no method
of apportionment can be devised except that which involves the exercise of judgment, and the results vary according to the method used. The Commission, therefore,
says that the statements and allegations of the bill are
mere conclusions and opinions which necessarily involve
consideration of all these complex and difficult problems
and should not be accepted for the purpose of setting aside
its order.
Supplementing this the Commission sets forth that on
the hearing before it oral and documentary evidence was
taken, to which it gave full consideration, and to the reports filed by the companies with it in accordance with
the statute, and that its order was made in accordance with
the statute, and that so far from exceeding its powers it
might have made a greater reduction, but it left the companies on the Atlantic seaboard business destined to Missouri points to charge one hundred per cent more than
the same railroads voluntarily charge on transcontinental
business, and, it is alleged, that it appeared from the
testimony of one witness that the latter business yielded
some profit, and by another witness testified, as an expert,
that a rate fifty per cent higher would be "too large, of
course."
The Commission alleges the reasonableness of the rates
ordered by it, and that they are less than the companies
charge and accept for transcontinental freight originating at the Atlantic seaboard and destined to Pacific coast
terminals, the expense of service being no greater. A
comparison is made also with Montana points and Spokane points, showing the rates to be less than to the Missouri River cities carried on the same railroads. So also
to Oklahoma common points. So also for traffic originating at Pittsburg and carried through Chicago to Missouri River points, and at Chicago destined to Texas
common points.

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. 1. & PAC. RY. 99
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The reason given by the Commission for not disturbing
the rates-of the Eastern roads is that neither the complainant before it nor the companies charged that these rates
were excessive, nor was a reduction of them sought, but,
on the contrary, it was conceded that such rates were
just and reasonable. The Eastern carriers were, therefore,
dismissed from the proceedings.
The other allegations but give further details and illustrations of the foregoing.
An order was made allowing the Illinois Central Railway Company, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company, the Chicago and Alton Railroad Conpany, the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, and the St.
Louis and San Francisco Railroad Company to file petitions of intervention. The allegation of these petitions
are substantially the same as those of the bill. The
answer filed. by the Interstate Commerce Commission to
the bill was taken as filed to the intervening petition.
Leave to intervene was also given to certain business
houses of Milwaukee, St. Louis, Chicago, Detroit and
Cleveland. Their petition set forth with some detail the
discrimination, as it was alleged, that would be worked
against them in favor of merchants at the Atlantic seaboard and.Missouri River cities by the order of the Cornmission, and also the disturbance of the commercial conditions which would result from the order. The Burnhain,
Hanna, Munger Dry Goods Company, one of the complainants before the Commission, and a number of other
corporations and copartnerships, were allowed to file
petitions in intervention. The petitions defended- the
order of the Commission, and again asserted that the
rates between the Mississippi and the Missouri Rivers
were unreasonable.
Evidence was taken and the court made the temporary
injunction permanent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court carried into and made the foundation of its
opinion the conception it had formed and expressed upon
granting the preliminary injunction, that is, that the purpose of the Commission was not so much the reduction of
unreasonable rates as protection of the Missouri River
cities against competition. The court said: "Indeed, the
contest in its larger aspect is a contest not so much between
the shippers and the railroads as between the commercial
and manufacturing interests of the Missouri River cities
and of the Atlantic seaboard on the one part (their interests being identical) and the commercial and manufacturing interests of what is known as the Central Traffic
territory (the territory west of Buffalo, Pittsburg and
Parkersburg, and east of the Mississippi River) on the
other part."
To support this view it was said that the differential of
9 cents or merchandise from the Atlantic seaboard to the
Missouri River cities, whatever be the principle upon which
the order was based, will be "to protect to a certain degree
the Denver jobbers and manufacturers within a given
zone of territory against the jobbers and manufacturers
in the Central Traffic Association territory

.

.

.

as

also to open up to the Atlantic seaboard," in its trade
with the Missouri River, "zones of territory, the advantages contained in the differentials against the competition
of both the intervening Central Traffic Association territory and the Missouri River territory." And this, it was
asserted, was the exercise of a "power artificially to apportion out the country into zones tributary to given trade
centers, to be predetermined by the Commission, and
non-tributary to others." This, it was further said, was
a "power essentially different in principle from the mere
power of naming rates that are reasonable."
We make these quotations from the opinion of the court
because they put, in a clear and condensed way, the ultimate contention of the companies and the evil, as they see

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 101
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it, in the order of th Commission, and which is intended
to be exhibited by their voluminous pleadings and arguments. And such, it is insisted, was the conscious purpose
of the Commission, a view in which the Circuit Court
concurred, deducing it from certain avowals of the Commission in its report.
Such purpose and the want of power in the Commission
to execute it is the foundation of the court's opinion.- No
analysis of the facts were made which concerned any other
proposition or issue. The question involved, the court
said, was not one of fact, but one of power; it is not whether,
by the application of correct principles, 'a given rate had
been decided to be unreasonable, but whether the principles applied are those within the power of the Commission. If this be so, we may wonder at the voluminous
pleadings and the equally voluminous evidence. The eleme1its of it were on the face of the report of the Commissioh. The court certainly thought it could be discerned
on: the face of the pleadings when passing on the motion
for preliminary injunction. This question, then we must
regard as paramount and to it we will address ourselves.
It may be that no other question is necessary to be decided. What the court would have done, with all other
questions, we are not able to say. It took occasion to
remark:
"It must be understood, however, that these orders of
the Commission are enjoined solely because, in our judgment, they lay upon the commerce and manufacturing of
the localities affected an artificial hand that Congress
never intended should be put forth, and therefore are
outside the power conferred on the Commission by Congress; for with the question of a reduction in rates, or a
readjustment of rates, from which such artificial results
have been eliminated, we are not now dealing."
A member of the court dissented from its judgment,
and declared the grievance that the companies asserted

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

against the order of the Commission was not sustained by
the evidence.
Is it true that the Interstate Commerce Commission by
its order exercised a power "artificially to apportion out
the country into zones tributary to given trade centers,"
and intentionally exercised it to protect the Missouri
River cities against the competition of other cities? If
that be the necessary conclusion the judgment of the
Circuit Court it may be contended was right. Such conclusion we should certainly be reluctant to adopt. From
whatever standpoint the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission may be viewed, they touch many interests, they may have great consequences. They are
expected to be exercised in the coldest neutrality. The
Commission was instituted to prevent discrimination between persons and places. It would indeed be an abuse
of its powers to exercise them so as to cause either. And
the training that is required, the comprehensive knowledge which is possessed, guards or tends to guard against
the accidental abuse of its powers, or, if such abuse occur,
to correct it. The possession of such advantages, is one
of its defenses. It alleges that'by § 12 of the Interstate
Commerce Act it is given authority to inquire into the
management of the business of all common carriers subject to the provisions of the act, and is required to keep
itself informed as to the manner and method in which the
same is conducted, and is "authorized and required to
execute and enforce the provisions of the act." Other
sections are more specific in grants of power. Rates may
not only be investigated and be pronounced unjust or
unreasonable or discriminatory but other rates may be
prescribed. These, we ,repeat, are great powers and
means of their proper exercise are conferred. Investigation may be conducted, and as the Commission says in
its answer, "that to enable it to perform its duties such
information as shows the operations and operating resuilts

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 103
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of each railway is" required to be filed with it and the
subject is under constant investigation.
The outlook of the Commission and its powers must
be greater than the interest of the railroads or of that
which may affect those interests. It must be as comprehensive as the interest of the whole country. If the
problems which are presented to it therefore are complex
and difficult, the means of solving them are as great and
adequate as can be provided. And arguments which
point out and assail the imperfection which may appear
inthe result, this court has taken occasion to characterize.
"They assail," it was said, "the wisdom of Congress in conferring upon the Commission .the power which has been
lodged in that body to consider complaints as to violations of the statute and to correct them if found to exist,
or attack as crude or inexpedient the action of the Commission in the performance of the administrative functions vested in it, and upon such assumption invoke the
exercise of an unwarranted judicial power to correct the
assumed evils." Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central .Railway Company, 215 U. S. 452, 478. It
was, of course, recognized in that case that there must
be power in the Commission to make the order which
might be subject to attack, but want of power was distinguished from the mere expediency or wisdom of making it, which, it was declared, was not open to judicial
review.
We return therefore to the question of the power of the
Commission and its purpose. The complainant before that
body presented two issues, the effect of the rates from the
Atlantic seaboard as discriminating against the Missouri
River cities in favor of St. Paul and Minneapolis, and their
unreasonableness of and in themselves. The first we may
immediately put out of view. It was decided adversely to
the complainants before the (Commission, and we may
say at the outset that. the contention of the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

companies that it was the only issue presented to the
Commission is not justified.
The second issue was decided in favor of the complainants, the Commission finding that the through rates were
unreasonable of and in themselves, and was caused by the
charge from the Mississippi River crossings to the Missouri River cities. The grounds of its decision and principles upon which it proceeded the Commission set forth
in its report, and to some extent all of the factors upon
which the decision is based and supported. Indeed, the
pleadings in the case and the 'argument of counsel are
but fuller explanations of the elements set out in the
report. The controversy, therefore, ig not so much as to
what these factors are as what they establish as to the
power of the Commission to make the order. The effect
of the order, it is contended as we have seen, is to create
artificial zones tributary to certain trade centers, or, as
it is expressed by the railroad companies, the effect of the
order is to destroy the system of rates which has existed
ever since' the railroads were constructed and to "overturn the equality of opportunity in competition" which
certain commercial centers possessed under that system
and to substitute an artificial system, the feature of which
is special advantages in rates to special sections. And it
is said the order was entered for such purpose. The appellee intervenors, who are merchants and jobbers of the
territory known as the Central Freight Association territory, attack the order on the ground (a) that it violates
§ 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act, in that it compels a
charge to them for like kind of traffic under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions greater than is
charged to their competitors in seaboard territory and
on the Missouri River; (b) the order is in contravention
of § 3, in that it gives an unreasonable preference to
merchants and jobbers in the seaboard territory and on
the Missouri River over merchants and jobbers in Central

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 105
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Freight Association territory; (c) that it arbitrarily attempts to change existing commercial conditions upon
which the various distributing centers of the seaboard,
Middle West and West have become established; (d) the
power of the Commission is limited to the reduction of
unreasonable rates, and that the rates reduced are not
shown to be such in themselves; (e) the order is void, it
being an attempt at legislation on the subject of general
adjustment of rates.
These contentions present the full offending of the order,
and the summary of them is that rates'long established
have been changed, commercial conditions are disturbed,
and equal opportunities of competition of certain commercial centers which have 'grown up have been taken
away, and undue protection given to others. This seems
very formidable in the recitation. But it is met by counter
charges of discrimination, and that the equal opportunities of competition contended for is a power which
has grown up and is supported by the existence of.unjust
freight rates. It is certain that the subject has taken on
more complexity than it had before the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the Commission has made this
the basis of a motion to dismiss the suit as to the intervening railroads, and all the intervening merchants and
manufacturers, on the ground as to the railroads, among.
others, that the order does not run against or operate
upon them, and that no right of theirs can be determined
by the decree. On the ground as to the intervenors, that
over the matters herein the courts exercise only the jurisdiction cpnferred by the act to regulate commerce, and
not general equity powers, and that the matter to be determined is not the respective rights of shippers or localities, but the validity of the order 'of the Commission, and that the intervenors have a conplete remedy
by application to the Commission And *e may say here,
as adding to thq. complex effect and interest of the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

tions presented, that the chambers of commerce and
boards of trade of certain Eastern cities have presented a
brief in defense of the order, asserting a vital interest in
its preservation, and exhibiting and illustrating the discrimination which, as they contend, exists against them by
the breaking of rates at the Mississippi River crossings.
Let us see, therefore, upon what grounds the Commission proceeded. The Commission is accused by the railroad companies of attempting to substitute an artificial
system of ratemaking for a long-established system, and
to protect or foster particular localities of production and
distribution. Certain remarks of the Commission are
* cited to support the charge. We think the charge puts
out of view all else that was said by the Commission, puts
out of view the comprehensive consideration the Commission took as exhibited in the explicit declaration made
after quoting the local class rates between the rivers in
cents per hundred pounds, that "these are the rates that
are added, to the rates up to the Mississippi River crossings to mike up the through rates from the Atlantic seaboard to the Missouri River cities. Are these rates, as
so used, and the through rates resulting therefrom, unwarrantably high or unduly discriminatory or unjustly
prejudicial? Can they be changed without doing injustice elsewhere?"
We think the charge also puts out of view the disclaimers of such purpose in the answer of the Commission
in its report to Congress, and its insistence that it is constrained by the law.to act only on complaint to it and
that it is open at all times to be appealed to to redress the
grievances any shipper or locality may have. Nor did the
Commission ignore or underestimate the manner in which
the lines of railroads had been extended or the system of
rates or ratenaking which had resulted. That is the systern of making rates upon certain basing lines or points.
Rates "brea'k" at such points, it was proVed as a result

INTERSTATE COMM. COM.v. CHI., R. I. & PAC. RY. 107
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of building independent lines westward. In other words,
lines of railroads were built to certain cities from the East,
seeking such cities, it may be, because of their natural
situation and facilities, and other independent lines building westward, each line fixing its own rates or uniting
according to circumstances in joint rates. It is the observance of such points that give and maintain, as we
understand the contention of the railroads, to. certain
cities "the equal opportunity in the distribution of
merchandise with the merchants in the East, and with the
merchants to the West of said cities, so far as their business is affected by trade rates." That this was carefully
considered is manifest, for the Commission resisted the
argument which was made against basing rates on such
points, saying:
"We are not impressed with the view that the system
of making rates on certain basing lines should be abolished.
No system of ratemaking has been suggested as a substitute for it, except one based upon the postage stamp
theory, or one based strictly upon mileage. Either of
these would create revolution in transportation affairs
and chaos in commercial affairs that have been builded
upon the system of ratemaking now in effect. It must
not, however, be assumed that a basing line for rates may
be established and be made an impassable barrier for
through rates, or that cities or markets located at or upon
such basing line have any inviolable possession of, or
hold upon, the right to distribute traffic in or from the
territory lying beyond. Development of natural resources,
increase in population, growth of manufacturing or producing facilities, and increased traffic on railroads create
changed conditions which may warrant changes in rates
and in rate adjustments in order to afford just and reasonable opportunity for interchange of .traffic between points
of prbduction and points of large consumption."
It was the sense of the Commission, however, that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

points could not be immovable forever and fixed forever
against power of changing, or that through rates based on
such points must be exempt from regulation, no matter
what their character, or be constituted at the will of the
railroad of the sum of local rates or the sum of rates from
one basing point to another, however unjust the rates
might be. Indeed, as pointed out in the brief of the
appellants in No. 664, the railway companies adhere to
no such construction of rates. Asthere said, "the Pacific
coast terminal rates, the Washington and Spokane common point rates, the Oklahoma rates and the El Paso
and Texas common point rates are each and all a departure
therefrom, and all are much less than the rates ordered
,by the Commission."
As we have said, the Commission is the tribunal that is
intrusted with the execution of the interstate commerce
laws, and has been given very comprehensive powers in
the investigation of and determination of the proportion
which the rates charged shall bear to the service rendered,
and this power exists, whether the system of rates be old
or new. If old, interests will have probably become attached to them and, it may be, will be disturbed or disordered if they be changed. Such circumstance is, of
course, proper to be considered and constitutes an element
in the problem of regulation, but it 4oes not take jurisdiction away to entertain and attempt to resolve the problem.
And it may be that there cannot be an accommodation
of all interests in one proceeding. This the Commission
has realized and expressed. The Commission, meeting a
possible suggestion that if the part of the through haul,
which consisted of the rate between the rivers, was too
high, all rates between the rivers might be too high, said:
"If the local class rates of defendants between the
Mississippi and Missouri Rivers were reduced, it would
give the same degree of advantage to all the producing
and distributing centers on and east of the Missouri River,

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. v. CHI., It. 1.& PAC. RY. 109
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and their relative advantages or disadvantages would 1(it
be changed, while a very serious inroad upon the revenues
of the carriers would inevitably result, and at a time of
industrial depression when it could not well be borne.
Such. a change would necessitate corresponding changes
in the rates to and from intermediate points, and would
probably be reflected in changes in commodity rates as
well. The local class rates between the rivers are high, but
this is not the time to precipitate such a violent change as
would follow an important reduction of them. The first
class rate. from Buffalo to Chicago, about 540 miles, and
from Pittsburg to Chicago, about 465 miles, is 45 cents.
From Cincinnati to Chicago, 306 miles, it is 40 cents."
We may say in passing that the passage thus quoted is
one of those which is adduced to support the contention
that the Commission's purpose was to introduce a new
system of ratemaking and build up certain distributing
centers. We do not think so. It only shows that the
accusation that all rates between the rivers were too high
might he justified, but that it would be unjust to the
carriers to reduce them at that time. It is somewhat
strange that that which was done in the interest of- tl
carriers should be brought forward by them to attack the
action of the Commission. It is very clear that by a voluntary reduction by them of such rates the equality of
opportunity. dependent upon them would be restored.
We make this observation to bring out clearly the relation
of the railroad companies to the grievance complained of.
That the companies iuay complain of the reduction made
by the Comimission so far as it affects their revenues is one
thing. To complain of it as it may affect, shippers or trade
*,enters is another. We have said several times that we
will not listen to a party who complains of a grievance
which is not his. Clark v. Kansas, 176 U. S. 114, 118;
Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S.447.
But, it may be said, such limitations, upon the coni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

panies is not of consequence, for shippers and trade centers
are herewith complaints. It is doubtful if they are properly
here, or rather were properly permitted to intervene. We
have said that the act to regulate commerce was intended
to be an effective means for redressing wrongs resulting
from unjust discrimination and undue preference, and this
must be so, whether persons or places be sufferers. T. & P.
Railway Co. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426. We have.
also said that the primary jurisdiction is with the Commission, the power of the courts being that of review and is
confined in that review to questions of constitutional power
and all pertinent questions as to whether the action of the
Commission is within the scope .of the delegated authority
under which it purports to have been made. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., supra.
The order of the Commission besides is strictly limited.
It was intended to determine nothing, and it determines
nothing but that the through rates on Atlantic seaboard
shipments to the Missouri River cities are too high. That
order is alone open to review. Whether other persons,
cities or areas of territory have grounds of complaint, the
way is open by application to the Commission for inquiry
and remedy. In that inquiry many elements may enter
upon which the judgment of the Commission should first
pass, and of which the courts should not be called upon
in advance to intimate kn opinion. The reasons for this
we have indicated, and they will be found at length in the
cases which we have cited.
One question remains. for discussion, the finding of the
Commission upon the character of the rate, whether it is
unreasonable as decided. Such decision, we have said
with tiresome repetition; is peculiarly the province of the
Commission to make, and that its findings are fortified
by presumptions of truth, "due to the judgmcnts of a
tribunal appointed by law and informed by experience."
Illinois £Cotral Railroad Company v. Interstate Commerce

INTERSTATE COMM. COM. r, CII1., It. 1. & PAC. RY. 111
218 U. S.

WHITE,

J,, dissenting.

Commission, 206 U. S 454, and cases cited. The testimony
jn this case does not shake the strength of such presumptions. We have seen that the Circuit Court refrained from
expressing an opinion upon anything but the power of
the Commission. Circuit Judge Baker, dissenting from
that view, went further and said:
"The complainants Are common carriers whose rates
on certain traffic' are directed to be reduced by the order
comi)lained of. Two grounds for injunction are alleged.
One is that the new rates are confiscatory. There is n6
proof whatever that the rates which the Commission
prescribed as just and reasonable are not sufficient to pay
the cost of handling that traffic, to cover that traffic's full
proportion of 'maintenance and overhead expenses, and
to return to the carriers an ample net profit. Furthermore, proof is lacking that, if the carriers should reduce
other rates to correct what they 'claim is the maladjustment caused by the Commission's order, the reduction
would not leave them abundant net returns. For the
purpose of this heaking, therefore, it must stand as an
agreed fact that the present. reduction is neither directly
nor indirectly obnoxious to the charge of taking private
property without just compensation."
We concur in these conclusions.
Decree reversed and the case remanded with directions to
dismiss the bill and all proceedings in the Circuit Court.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

dissenting.

The court below enjoined the execution of the ordei: of
the Comnission because it was of the opinion that that
body had exceeded the powers conferred upon it by the
act to regulate coinierte, since it had based its order
upon the assumption that it was its duty under the act to
secure I relatively equal share of the volume of interstate
con imerce to eon imuiiities a1d places, and therefore that
it was its province to alter otherwise legal rates for the

112

OCrOBER TERM, 1909.
WHITE,

J., di8senting.

218 U. S.

purpose of correcting the inequalities which otherwise
would arise from the competitive rivalry between sections
and places. As, in my opinion, the court 'below was
correct in the view which it took of the order of the
Commission, and was right in holding that the power which
the order manifested was not conferred by law, I dissent
'from the judgment of reversal now announced. It does
not, however, seem to me necessary that I should do more
than state the fact of my dissent for the following reasons:
The judgment of reversal is based, not upon the ruling
that the Commission possessed the authority to make the
order if it was based upon the assertion of power upon
which the court below found the order must necessarily
rest, but exclusively upon the theory that the court below,
while rightly holding that the Commission had not the
power which it assumed that body had exerted in making
the order, had nevertheless mistakenly enjoined the order
because it did not exert, or attempt to exert, the power
which the court conceived had been called into play in
making it. In other words, although the opinion now
announced excludes the authority which the lower court
deemed the Commission had exerted by the order in
question, it nevertheless maintains the order because of
the conclusion that the order was but an exertion by the
Commission of its authority on complaint that a rate was
unreasonable of itself, to correct such rate by substituting
a reasonable rate therefor. Although I am unable to
agree with the reasoning by which the court now gives to
the order of the Commission the narrow basis thus stated,
as the solution of that question depends upon the idiosyncrasies of this particular case and involves no principle of
general importance, it seems to me I am called upon to do
no more than simply to state my inability to agree.
MR. JUsTICE HOLMES

in this dissent.

and MR. JUSTICE LURTON join

