OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of anything that appeared. in ex parte affidavits
denying the: truth of the allegations

in respect

to the amount in.dispute."
Rule discharged.
Writ of Mandamus denied.

DOZIER v. STATE OF ALABAMA.
ERROR-TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 105.

Submitted January 25, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

The protection of th6 commerce clause of. the Federal Constitution
extends beyond the str.ict lines of.contract, and inseparable incidents
of a transaction of interstate commerce'based on contract are also
iiterstate commerce.
Where, under the contract to purchase a picture, the purchaser has
the option to take at a specified price -the frame in which the picture
shall be delivered, and both picture and frame are manufa6tured in
and (elivered from another State and remain the property of the.
.vendor*until paid for, the sale of the frame is a part of the original
transaction and protected by the commerce clause 6f the Constitution.
The imposition of a license tax for soliciting orders for enlargements of
phot,.graphs and frames on persons not having a permanent place
of business iu the State and keeping such articles as stock in trade
is a regulation of commerce between the States and void under the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, both as to the orders
for the picture itself and as to an optional right to take, at a price
specified in the contract, the frame in which the picture is delivered,
and so held-as to the license tax imposed under § 17 of the statute
of March 7, 1907, of Alabama.
154 Alabama, 83, reversed.
facts are stated in tflc opinion.
TH ,i
Mr. A. D. Gash for plaintiff in error:
('1,ogress has sole power to regulate commerce between

the 8rates.

Art. I, § 8, ('onst. IT. S. Section 17 df the

DOZIER v. ALABAMA.
218 U.S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Alabama act of March 7, 1907, requiring every person
who solicits orders for pictures or frames or sells or disposes of picture frames to pay a license tax in each county
is an attempt to interfere with and to regulate commerce
and as such is invalid as to an agent of a corporation residing out of the State. Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187
U. S. 622; Brenan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489; Asher v. Texas, 128
U. S. 129; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Crutcher v.
Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; The State Freight Tax, 15 Wall.
232; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Stockard v.
Morgan, 185 U. S. 27.
No State has a right to abridge the privileges of citizens
of other States or to discriminate in its laws against the
rights and privileges of citizens of the other States,
Art. XIV, § 1, Const. U. S., and § 17 does discriminate
against the rights and piivileges of citizens of the other
States.
An agent of a foreign corporation who delivers a frame
to each purchaser of portraits whose contract of purchase
provides that the portrait will be delivered in a suitable
frame that may be accepted at factory prite, who has
only one frame fitted to and- surrounding each portrait
as it is delivered and who does not offer to sell any frame
to others than those whose contract calls for the option
of accepting said suitable frame and who carries no extra
frames whatever, but keeps the title for his company or
returns to his company any frame that is refused is engaged solely in interstate commerce. Chicago Portrait Co.
v. Mayor of Macon, 147 Fed. Rep. 967; State v. Coop, 52
So. Car. 908; City of Laurens v. Elmore, 55 So. Car. 477.
The mere fact that the purchaser may refuse to accept
the frame does not deprive the transaction of its qualities
of interstate commerce.
Mr. Alexander M. Garber,Attorney General of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

of Alabama, and Mr. Thomas W. Martin for defendant in
error:
Although an agent from without the State cannot be
convicted for soliciting orders for the enlargement of
pictures because the taking of the orders therefor and the
delivery thereof in pursuance of the order-contract, constituted interstate commerce, in this case as held by the
state court the sale of the frames was made and completed in Alabama by the agent, after the frames were
brought into the State, and while in the possession of the
agent and, therefore, the transaction with respect to the
frames was not interstate but intrastate commerce. The
conviction, therefore, should be sustained under the latter
alternative in the complaint. The question has not been
decided by this court. State v. Montgomery, 52 Maine,
433; Chrystal v. Mayor, 33 S.E& Rep. 810. And see also
Machine Company v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed,
192 U. S.500; Rearick v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
203 U. S.506; General Oil Co. v. Crane, 209 U. S.231.
See also dissenting opinions in State v. Coop, 52 So. Car.
908, and City of Laurens v. Elmore, 55 So. Car. 477.
Stripped of all its technicalities, the transaction in this
case resolves itself into a shipment of the picture frames
by the manufacturer to its agent in another State there
to be sold without any order from any person for such
frames and in such cases the agents are liable in each case
for the payment of the license tax. Machine Company
v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S.296.
See also American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S.
500; General Oil Co. v. Crane, 209 U. S.212. Rearick v.
Pennsylvania does not apply.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was convicted and sentenced to a
fine on a complaint for breach of an Alabama statute of

DOZIER v. ALABAMA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

March 7, 1907. By § 17 of that act a license tax was imposed on persons who did not have a permanent place of
business in the State and also keep picture frames as a
part of their stock in trade, if they solicited orders for the
enlargement of photographs or pictures of any character,
or for picture frames, whether they made charge for such
frames or not, or if they sold or disposed of picture frames.
The Chicago Crayon Company, having its only place of
business in Chicago and being engaged in the business of
making and enlarging portraits from photographs and in
the manufacturing of picture frames, solicited orders in
Alabama without paying the license tax. These orders
were given in writing for a portrait of the size and kind
wanted, specified the price, cash on delivery, and continued, "I understand that my portrait is to be delivered
in an appropriate frame which this contract entitles me
to accept at factory price." The agent of the company
gave back a written acceptance, repeating the other terms

of the bargain and adding, "all portraits are delivered in
appropriate frames, which this contract entitled the
purchaser to accept at factory prices," with particulars
purporting to show that these prices were from one-third
to one-half the retail or usual ones. The plaintiff in error,
who also had no permanent place of business in Alabama
and had paid no license tax, was an agent of the company
who delivered pictures and frames and collected for them
in pursuance of the agreed plan. The pictures and frames
were sent to the agent and remained the property of the
company until paid for and delivered. On these facts.the
Supreme Court of Alabama, while admitting that the
dealings concerning the pictures were commerce among
the States, sustained the conviction on the ground that
the sale of. the frames was a wholly local matter. 154
Alabama, 83.
No doubt it is true that the customer was not bound to
take the frame unless he saw fit, and that the sale of it

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

took place wholly within the State of Alabama, if a sale
was made. But as was hinted in Rearick V. Pennsylvania,
203 U. S. 507, 512, what is commerce among the States is
a question depending upon broader considerations than
the existence of a technically binding contract, or the time
and place where the title passed. It was agreed that the
frame should be offered along with the picture. The offer,
was a part of the interstate bargain, and as it was agreed
that the frame should be offered 'at factory prices,' and
the company and factory were in Chicago, obviously it
was contemplated if not agreed that the frame should
come on with the picture. In fact the frames were sent
on with the pictures from Chicago, and were offered when
the pictures were tendered, as part of a transaction com-,
mercially continuous and one, at prices generically fixed
by the contract for the pictures, and by that contract
represented to be less than retail or usual prices, in consideration, it is implied, of the purchase already agreed
to be made. We are of opinion that the sale of the frames
cannot be so separated from the rest of the dealing between the Chicago company and the Alabama purchaser
as to sustain the license tax upon it. Under the decisions
the statute as applied to this case is a regulation of commerce among the States, and void under the Constitution'
of the United States. Art. I, § 8. Robbins v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489. Caldwell v. North Carolina,
187 U. S. 622. Rearick v. Pennsylvania,203 U. S. 507.
Judgment reversed.

