HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

more than to hold that we find no error in the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals and to remand the case to
the Circuit Court to be proceeded with accordingly.
Affirmed.

HERTZ, COLLECTOR, v. WOODMAN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 640.

Argued April 25, 26, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Where, as in this case, the certificate sufficiently states both the question and the desire of the Circuit Court of Appeals for instructions
so that it may make a proper decision, it conforms in substance to
the provisions of § 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
The rule of stare decisis tends to uniformity and consistency of decision
but it is not inflexible, and it is within the discretion of a court to
follow or depart from its prior decisions.
It is the practice of this court to affirm without opinion where the
judgment under review is not decided to be erroneous by a majority
of the court sitting in the cause.
While the affirmance of a judgment by this court by a divided court
is a conclusive adjudication between the parties, it is not an au•thority on the principles of law involved for the determination of
other cases in this or in inferior courts; and this, although a different
rule has been sanctioned in England.
While an unqualified repeal of a law operates to destroy inchoate rights
as a release of -imperfect obligations and as a remission of penalties
and forfeitures dependent upon. the destroyed statute, § 13, Rev.
Stat.,, based on § 4 of the act of February 25, 1871, c. 71, 16 Stat.
431, operates, unless the repealing act does not expressly or by
implication exclude such operation, as a general saving clause for
all repealing statutes and extends not only to penalties and forfeitures but to liabilities under the repealed statute. Great Northern
Railway Co. v. United States, 208 U. S. 452.
Upon the passing by death of a vested right to the immediate possession or enjoyment of a legacy or distributive share there was imposed
by the inheritance tax provisions of the War Revenue Act of 1898

UTO0T3ER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Err(or.

218 U. S.

the tax or duty exacted upon every such right of siccession which
was saved by the saving clause of the repealing act of April 12, 1902.
Mason v. Sargent, 104 U. S. 689, distinguished.
Although in the statute a time limit as to payment of a tax upon distributive shares and legacies may refer to the death of the testator,
it may be construed as applying to shares in intestate estates as well
as to legacies from testators, the omission being supplied by necessary implication.
The fact that the testator died within one year immediately prior to
the taking effect of 'the repealing act of April 12, 1902, c.500, 32
Stat. 96, does not relieve from taxation legacies otherwise taxable
under §§ 29 and 30 of the War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898, e. 448,
30 Stat. 448, as amended by the act of March 2, 1901, c. 803, 31
Stat. 895..

THE facts, which involve the construction of the act of
April. 12, 1902, c. 500, 32 Stat. 96, repealing certain provisions of the war revenue act of 1898 relating to inheritance taxes, are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. T. Newcomb, with whom Mr. Edward Lauterbach
was on the brief, for the defendant in error:
The question was improperly certified and should not
\ be answered because the Circuit Court of Appeals does
not require the instruction for a proper decision. Columbus
Watch Co. v. Robbins, 148 U. S. 266, 269.
This precise question has twice been argued before this
tribunal, Eidman v. Tilghman, 136 Fed. Rep. 141; 203
U. S. 580, and Philadelphia Trust Co. v. McCoach, 142
*Fed. Rep. 120; 203 U. S. 539, two cases, and four times
this court has affirmed judgments which depended upon
its affirmative decision,' Norris v. McCoach, 142 Fed.
Rep. 120; 203. U. S. 539, three times as above, and in a
fifth Oase, Ulhited States v. Marion Trust Co., 143 Fed.
Rep. 301; 203 U. S.594, a judgment was affirmed which,
although involving the estate of an intestate, cannot be
reconciled with any theory of interpretation except that

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

which requires an affirmative response to the question
certified. In two subsequent cases, United States v.
Stephenson, and Kinney v. Conant, 166 Fed. Rep. 720; 214
U. S. 526, the United States has sought to bring the
question again before this court with the effect that judgments against the United States involving the affirmative
decision of the present question have been so far sanctioned by this court as to become final and binding upon
the parties.
The trial court was bound by the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in
United States v. Stephenson, decided May 20, 1908, not
reported; certiorari refused, 212 U. S. 572, and United
States v. Marion Trust Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 301, affirmed,
203 U. S. 594, and, as it committed no error in following
those cases, its judgment should have been affirmed. It
was bound to apply the rule of stare decisis to this case
and this is not affected by the fact that the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in Westhus v. Union
Trust Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 795, S. C., 165 Fed. Rep. 617,
adopted a different conclusion.
Even if a single affirmance, when this court is equally
divided, does not settle the-law, Durant v. Essex Co., 7
Wall. 107, so as to constitute an authority in this court,
such an affirmance binds every subordinate tribunal.
26 Amer. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2d ed., 165; State Tax Law
Cases, 54 Michigan, 417, 444; City of Florence v. Berry,
62 S.Car. 469; note by Horace Binney Wallace appended
to Krebs v. The Carlisle Bank, 2 Wallace, Jr., 49, citing
Duratit v. Essex Co., 7 Wall. 107. And see Appendix to
7 Wall. 735; Beamish v. Beamish, 9 H. L. Cas. 274; S.C.,
5 L. J. 97; Lessier v. Price, 12 How. 72.
The rulings of the Circuit Judge were adopted and
affirmed by the judgment rendered in the Supreme Court,
in like manner that they would have been had both
judges concurred in affirming the judgnent on all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

218 U. S.

grounds assumed by the court below; to hold otherwise
would be declaring that nothing had been decided in the
state court of last resort, and thereby a second writ of
error to this court would be defeated. 'This is true notwithstanding, the contrary conclusion was reached in
Hanifen v. Armitage, 117 Fed. Rep. 845, and Westhus v.
Union Trust Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 617.
The interpretation of the act of June 13, 1898, should
now be regarded as settled because in no less than seven
cases, with the express sanction of the Supreme Court,
citizens, similarly situated in every respect, have been
finally relieved from the payment of the tax; besides, a
contrary conclusion would make the tax operate unequally
and create gross injustice.
Numerous cases, in addition to those already referred
to, involving the question now presented, have been de-.
cided against the Government and applications. for the
writ of certiorari not having been made to this court
within the proper time, these judgments have become
final. Among these cases are: Gill v. Austin, 157 Fed.
Rep. 234; Lawrence v. Jordan (not reported).; United
States v. Rouss (hiot reported); McCoach v. Bamberger,
161 Fed. Rep. 90.
These cases are now res judicata; the estates affected
have forever escaped the exaction of the tax. On the
authority of these judgments and those cited under the
preceding heading, many other estates have been distributed without the payment of the tax and without
litigation and the property so distributed is no longer
within the reach of the collectors; these estates have
forever escaped the exaction of the tax.
Where a particular construction of a, statute will occasion great inconvenience or produce inequality and
injustice, that view is to be avoided if another and more
reasonable interpretation is present in the statute.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 77.

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Congress intended to prevent the collection of aiy
legacy tax which did not become due and payable prior
to July 1, 1902, because the calculations and statements
contained in the report of the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives show that revenue
from this source was expected to stop on the date of the
repeal. See Rep. on Ways and Means H. Rep., House
Report No. 320, February 3, 1902, entitled "Repeal of
Wax-Revenue Taxation," 57th Cong., 1 Sess.
Such evidence is competent. The Delaware, 161 U. S.
459, 472; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 495.
The tax was repealed because the revenue it produced
was unnecessary and burdensome, a menace and an impediment to the prosperity of the country; the act declared that the repeal should take effect on July 1, 1902;
the committee estimated that there would be no revenue
from this source after July 1, 1902. These facts are conclusive.
The "saving clause" in the repealing act does not disclose any purpose to continue this tax.
The period of one year between the death of the testator
and the date on which the statute made the tax due and
payable coincides with the period ordinarily allowed for
presenting and proving claims against the estate; until
that period has elapsed and the net value of the estate
has been ascertained the interests of legatees and distributees are "contingent beneficial interests" which cannot become absolutely vested in possession or enjoyment
within the meaning of the refunding and declaratory act
of June 27, 1902. The act of June 27, 1902, was in part
a declaratory statute.
The terms necessary to express a different intent were
well understood and Congress would have used them and
every doubt or ambiguity in the act of June 13, 1898,
and amendment acts must be construed in favor of the
citizen.
VOL. ccxxvi-1.4

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

The intention to tax any subject can never ue implied
and the expression of the sovereign will to tax must always
be set forth with completeness and precision. Eidman v.
Martinez, 184 U. S. 578, 583; Eidman v. Tilghman, supra,
136 Fed. Rep. 143; Disston v. McClain, 147 Fed. Rep.
114; Lynch v. Union Trust Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 161;
Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed., 464.
The cases cited by The Solicitor General can be distinguished.
MR.JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes to this court upon a certificate under
§ 6 of the act of 1891, creating Circuit Courts of Appeals.
The action in the Circuit Court was one by the executor
and legatees under the will of James F. Woodman, to
recover an amount of money which had been paid, under
protest, as a tax upon legacies under the will of the testator, by virtue of §§ 29 and 30 of the act of June 13, 1898,
and amendments, known as the War Revenue Act.
The facts certified are: That Woodman died at Chicago,
March 15, 1902, leaving a will, which was there duly probated on May 3, 1902, and that the Illinois Trust and
Savings Bank qualified as executor. The clear value of
legacies payable under the will to the defendants in error
was $166,250. On January 17, 1905, and before the payment of these legacies, the collector claimed and collected,
as the amount of duty and tax due and payable upon said
legacies, under the act of Congress before mentioned, the
sum of $2,812.49. After stating the facts, substantially
as above, the certificate concludes as follows:
"Upon the foregoing facts the question of law concerning which this court desires the instruction and advice of
the Supreme Court i5 this: Does the fact that the testator
dies within one year immediately prior to the taking
effect of the repealing act of April 12, 1902 (U. S. Comp.

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. Supp. 1903, p. 279), relieve from taxation legacies
otheinwise taxable under sections 29 and 30 of the act of

June 13, 1898, as amended by the act of March 2, 1901?"
The form of this certificate has been criticised, but we
think it sufficiently states both the question and the desire
of that court for the instruction of this court that it may
make a proper decision. It conforms, in substance, with
the statute, and finds precedence in a number of instances
in matter of form. Helwig v. United States, 188 U. S.605;
United States v. Pridgeon, 153 U. S. 48; United States v.
Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253.

It is also urged that the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit is precluded from requesting
the instruction of this court, because it had in two
cases theretofore decided the very question now certified.
United States v. Marion Trust Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 301;
United States v. Stephenson, not yet reported. In both
cases the decision was adverse to the contention of the
United States. The first was affirmed by this court without opinion, by an evenly divided court, 203 U. S.594,
and, in the second, an application by the United States
for a writ of certiorari was denied. 212 U. S.527. It is
further contended that, if not concluded by its own decisions, it was bound to follow the judgmefits of this court
in Eidman v. Tilghman, affirming the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, reported
in 136 Fed. Rep. 141, the affirmance by this court being
reported in 203 U. S.580, and similar judgments of affirmance in PhiladelphiaTr'ust Co. v. McCoach, 142 Fed. Rep.
120, and 203 U. S.539, and United States v. Marion Trust
Co., supra.

All of these cases were affirmances by an equally divided
court of the judgments of the court below in favor of the
legatees or distributees who had sued to recover taxes
paid upon legacies or shares which had passed to the
plaintiff within one year after the death of the testator

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 1 . S.

or intestate, the several lower courts having ruled that,
the tax had not been saved because it was not due and
payable at the time of the repeal of the act under which
the tax was claimed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was obviously not bound
to follow its own prior decision. The rule of stare decisis,
though one tending to consistency and uniformity of
decision, is not inflexible. Whether it shall be followed or
departed from is a question entirely within the discretion
-of the court, which is again called upon to consider a
question once decided. The court below in this instance,
when called upon to reconsider its former construction of
the inheritance tax act, found itself confronted by the fact
that this court had been equally divided in opinion as to
the proper interpretation of the act, and for that reason
alone obliged to affirm the ruling of that and other courts
against the legality of the tax which had been collected.
If the decision of the court under review had been in favor
of the legality of the tax an affirmance must likewise have
resulted from an equal division. That court also found
that its own former view of the act had not 'been satisfactory to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, which court had decided contrariwise in Westhus
v. Union Trust Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 795. In such circumstances the court below was not only free to regard the
question as one open for determination, but one which
might well-be certified to this court, that the question of
law which had never been authoritatively decided by this
court might be so determined by an instruction as to how
it should decide the matter when thus presented for
reconsideratipn.
When this court in the exercise of its appellate powers
is called upon to decide whether that which has been done
in the lower court' shall be reversed *or affirmed, it is
obvious that that which-has been done must stand unless
reversed by the affirmative action of a majority. It has

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

• 213

Opinion of the Court.

therefore been the invariable practice to affirm, without
opinion, any judgment or decree which is not decided to
be erroneous by a majority of the court sitting in the
cause. The earliest precedent is that of Etting v. United
States Bank, 11 Wheat. 59, 78. Chief Justice Marshall
said at the conclusion of the opinion:
"In the very elaborate arguments which have been
made at the bar, several cases have been cited which have
been attentively considered. No attempt will be made to
analyze them, or to decide on their application to the case
before us, because the judges are divided respecting it.
Consequently, the principles of law which have been
argued cannot be settled! but *the judgment is affirmed,
the court being'divided in opinion upon it."
In Durant v. Essex' Company, 7 Wall. 107, 110, Mr.
Justice Field, for this court, said, in respect of the effect
of the affirmance by a divided court:
"There is nothing in the fact that the judges of this
court were divided in opinion upon the question whether
the decree should be reversed or not, and, therefore,
ordered an affirmance of the decree 'of the court below.
The judgment of affirmance was the judgment of the
entire court. The division of opinion between the judges
was the reason for the entry of that judgment; but the
reason is no part of the judgment itself."
To the same effect are Westhus v. Union Trust Co., 168
Fed. Rep. 617; Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672, 67.6.
A different rule seems to have been sanctioned in the
English courts. Calherwood v. Caslin, 13 Meeson &
Welby, 261; Beemish v. Beemish, 9 H. L. ,Cases, 274.
-,
Under the precedents of this court, and as seems
justified by reason as well as by authority, an affir'mnance
by an equally divided court is as between.the parties a
conclusive determination and adjudication of the matter
adjudged, but the principles of law involved not having
been agreed upon by a majority of the court sitting

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

prevents the case from becoming an authority for the
determination of other cases, either in this or in inferior
courts. The affirmance by a divided court in the second
case shows this, for if it was not so the second equal division could not have happened, for the case would have
been controlled by the first equal division.
We shall therefore proceed to determine the question
of law presented by the certificate of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, feeling free to decide it as our judgments may
dictate.
The statutes involved and requiring consideration are
the twenty-ninth section of the act of June 13, 1898,
c. 448, 30 Stat. at Large, 464; the thirtieth section of the
same act, as amended by § 11 of the act of March 2,1901,
c. 800, 31 Stat. at Large, 948, and §§ 7, 8 and 1 of the
act of April 12, 1902, c. 500, 32 Stat. at.Large, part 1,
page 97 et seq. So much of the sections referred to as is
material to the present question is set out in the margin.'
Section twenty-nine of the act of June 13, 1898, is ha follows:
."That any person or persons having in charge or trust, as administrators, executors, or trustees, any legacies or distributive shares
arising fron, personal property, where the whole am unt of such personal property as aforesaid shall exceed the sum of ten thousand dollars in actual value, passing, after the passage of this act, from any
person possessed of such property, either by will or by the intestat4
laws of any State or Territory, or any personal property-or interest
therein, transferred by deed, grant, bargain, sale or gift, made or intended to take effect in possession or injoyment after the death of the
grantor or bargainor, to any person or persons, or to any body or bodies,
politic or corporate, in trust or otherwise, shall be, and hereby are,
made subject to a duty or tax, to be paid to thd United States, as follows, that is to say:
" 30 Stat. 464, chap. 448.
So much of section thirty of the act" of June 13, 1898; k amended by
section eleven of the act of March 2, 1901, as is material, reads:
"That the tax or duty aforesaid shall be.due and payable in one year
after the death of the testator arid shall be a lien and charge upon the
property of every person who may die as aforesaid for twenty years, or
until the same shall, within that period, be duly paid to and dis-

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The seventh section of the act of April 12, 1902, which
act we shall hereafter refer to as the repealing act, did
not go into effect until July 1, 1902. That section ex*plicitly repealed § 29 of the act of June 13, 1898, which
was the only section imposing a tax upon inheritances
and the only authority for the tax collected from the defendants in error. The claim of the United States was
and is that, as the testator's death occurred prior to
July 1, 1902, the tax demanded had been imposed as an
obligation before the repeal of the taxing section, and that
charged by the United States; and every executor, administrator, or
trustee having in charge or trust any legacy or distributive share, as
aforesaid, shall give notice thereof, in writing, to the collector or
deputy collector of the district where the deceased grantor or bargainor
last resided within thirty days after he shall have taken charge of such
trust, and every executor, administrator, or trustee, before payment
and distribution to the legatees, -or any parties entitled to beneficial
interest therein, shall pay to the collector or deputy collector of the
district of which the deceased person was a resident, or in which the
property was located in case of nonresidents, the amount of the duty
or tax assessed upon such legacy or distributive share," etc.
Sections seven, eight and eleven of the act of April 12, 1902, are as
fdllows:
"SEc. 7. That section four of said act of March second, nineteen
hundred and one, and sections six, twelve, eighteen, twenty, twentyone, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, Schedule A,
Schedule B, sections twenty-seven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine of
the act of June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and all
amendments of said sect ions and schedules be, and the same are hereby,
repealed.
"SEc. 8. That all taxes or duties imposed by section twenty-nine
of the act of June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and
amendments thereof, prior to the taking effect of this act, shall be
subject, as to lien, charge, collection and otherwise, to the provisions
of section thirty of said act of .June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and
ninety-eight, and amendments thereof, which are hereby continued
in force, as follows:
"SEc. 11. That this act, except as otherwise specially provided for
in the preceding section, shall take effect July first, n~ineteen hundred
and two." 32 Stat. pt. 1, pp. 97, 9S, 99; ehap. 500.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion ot the Court.

218 U. S.

the liability thus imposed was saved by the eighth section
of the repealing act. For convenience that section is here
again set out:
"SEc. 8. That all taxes or duties imposed by section
twenty-nine of the act of June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and amendments thereof, prior to
the taking effect of this act shall be subject, as to lien,
charge, collection, and otherwise, to the provisions of
section thirty of said act of June thirteenth, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, and amendments thereof,
which are hereby continued in force, as follows. .... "
The question for solution must therefore turn upon
the inquiry whether the tax in question had been imposed
prior to the golng i'io effect of the repealing act within
the intent and effect of the saving clause just set out.
There are cases which go so far as to say that the unqualified repeal of a law as effectually destroys rights and
liabilities dependent upon it, not past and concluded, as
if the statute had never existed. It is, however, putting
it strongly enough to say, that an unqualified repeal operates to destroy inchoate rights, as a release of imperfect
obligations and as a remission of penalties and forfeitures
dependent upon the destroyed statute. United States v.
Reisinger, 128 U. S. 398; Curtis v. Lovett, 15 N. Y. 9, 152
et seq.; Town of Belvidere v. Warner,R. R. Co., 34 N. J. L.
193; 1 Lewis' Sutherland Stat. Const., §§ 282 et seq.
There has been a marked legislative trend in the direction of escaping from the, serious consequence sometimes incident to this common-law rule of construction,
indicated by general statutes saving liabilities, penalties
and forfeitures incurred under repealed statutes. Such a
general statute was passed by Congress on February 25,
1871, ch. 71, 16 Stat. 431, the fourth section of which
was carried into the revision of 1878 and is now in force
as § 13, Rev. Stat. That section reads as follows:
"The repeal of any statute shall not have the effect to

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

release or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture or liability
incurred under such statute, unless the repealing act shall
so expressly provide, -and such statute shall be treated as
still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such
penalty, forfeiture, or liability.".
This provision has been upheld by this court as a rule
of construction applicable, when not otherwise provided,
as a general saving clause to be read and construed as a
part of all subsequent repealing statutes, in order to give
effect to the will and intent of Congress. United States v.
Reisinger, 128 U. S. 398; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 208 U. S.452.
In the last case cited the court said of this section
that"As the section of the Revised Statutes in question has
only the force of a statute, its provisions cannot justify a
disregard of the will of Congress as manifested either expressly or by necessary implication in a subsequent enactment. But while this is true the provisions of § 13 are
to be treated as if incorporated in and as a part of subsequent enactments, and therefore, under the general principles of construction requiring, if possible, that effect be
given to all the parts of a law the section must be enforced
unless either by express declaration or necessary implication, arising from the terms of the law, as a whole, it re-.
suits that the legislative mind will be set at naught by
giving effect to the provisions of § 13. For the sake of
brevity we do not stop to refer to the many cases frQw
state courts of last resort dealing with the operation of
eneral state statutes like unto § 13, Rev. Stat., because
we think the views just stated are obvious and their correctness is established by a prior decision of. this court
concerning that section. United States v. Reisinger. 128
U. S.398."
This section is not alone applicable to penalties and for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

feitures under penal statutes. It extends as well to "liabilities," and a liability or obligation to pay a tax imposed
under a repealed statute is not only within the letter, but
the spirit and purpose of the provision. Therefore we
must take that general saving clause into consideration
as a part of the legislation involved in the determination
of whether a "liability" had been incurred by the imposi-

tion of a tax prior to the act that destroyed the law under
which it had been imposed.
The repealing act here involved includes a saving clause,
and if it necessarily, or by clear implication, conflicts with
the general rule declared in § 13, the latest expression of
the legislative will must prevail. In the case of Great
Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, cited above, the question
was whether the saving clause in the Hepburn act was
so plainly in conflict with the rule of construction found in
§ 13 as to limit the actions or liabilities saved to those
enumerated therein, but the court held that as the later
clause applied to remedies and procedure, it was not by
implication in conflict with the general provision of § 13,
which saved penalties, forfeitures and liabilities. 208
U. S. 466, 467.
The significance of § 13 is therefore this: That if prior
to the repealing act the defendants in error were under
any liability or obligation to pay the tax or duty imposed
by §29 of the act of June 13, 1898, that obligation or
liability was not relieved by the mere repeal of that section, nor as a consequence of the saving clause in the repealing act, unless the special character of that clause by
plain implication cuts down the scope and operation of
the general rule in § 13.
In the light of these principles of interpretation we come
then to the question as to whether, at the date of the repeal
of §29 of the act of June 13, 1898, the legacies to the defendants in error were subject to any tax or duty under
the repealed section which constituted a "liability" under

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

§ 13, or to a tax or duty "imposed," under the saving
clause of the repealing act.
The only section which imposes any tax upon inheritances is the twenty-ninth. Any legacy or distributive
share, or gift in anticipation of death, "passing after the
passage of the act," is by the express terms of that section
"made subject to a duty or tax to be paid to the United
States, as follows," etc.
Section 30 of the same act deals only with the return, payment and procedure for the collection of "the
tax or duty aforesaid," referring to the tax imposed by
§ 29.
Now, what is the property, right or thing which is
made subject to the tax? This has been most conclusively
answered by Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41,56, where the
section in question is construed as laying a tax upon the
transmission, or the right to succeed to a legacy or distributive share or gift in contemplation of death, passing
after the act.
For reasons and upon grounds not necessary to be restated it has been also conclusively decided in Vanderbilt v.
Eidman, 196 U. S. 480, that the tax or duty does not attach
to legacies or distributive shares until the right of succession becomes an absolute right of immediate possession
or enjoyment. It was therefore held in the case cited
that a legacy upon conditions which might never happen
was not subject to the tax or duty prior to the time, if ever,
when the right of possession or enjoyment should become
absolute.
To repeat then: The subject of the tax or duty exacted
by § 29 is the right of succession which passes by death to.
a vested beneficial right of possession or enjoyment to a
legacy or distributive share.
Upon the facts certified the right of succession which
passed by the death of the testator was an absolute right to
the immediate possession and enjoyment, a right neither

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

postponed until the falling in of a life estate, as in Mason v.
Sargent, 104 U. S. 689, nor subject to contingencies, as in
Vanderbilt v. Eidman, supra. No further event could
make their title more certain nor their possession and enjoyment more secure. The law, then unrepealed and in
full force, operated to fasten, at the moment this right of
succession passed by death, a liability for the tax imposed
upon the passing of every such inheritance or right of
succession. The time for scheduling or listing was practically identical with the time for payment, and the listing
or scheduling was required to be done by the executor
charged with payment, but might be and was postponed
for reasons of grace and of convenience. That is almost
universal under any taxing system. The liability attaches
at some time before the time for payment. But the lia'bility for the payment of the tax exacted under § 29 of the
act of June 13, 1898, accrued or arose the moment the
right of succession by death passed to the defendants in
error, and the occurrence of no other fact or event was
essential to the imposition of a liability for the statutory
tax upon the interest thus acquired.
Much has been urged because the tax was not "due
and payable" when the repealing act took effect, and the
contention is that because not "due and payable" no tax
had been theretofore imposed within the intent of the
saving clause. What we have already said answers this.
But let us see the very unreasonable result which would
ensue if we are required to say that by "tax or duty imposed under section twenty-nine" Congress meant a tax
or duty due and payable when the repealing act should
go into effect.
No one questions but that one effect of this saving clause
would be to save any such tax as was "due and payable"
one year before July 1, 1002. This being so, it would be
very unjust if the tax in the latter case is saved and the
6tker remitted, inasmuch as the thing made subject to

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the tax would in each case be the same, namely, the transmission of a beneficial right to the possession and enjoyment of a legacy or distributive share at the death of a
testator or intestate. In the one case the tax paid upon
the right passing by death would be preserved. In the
other a tax upon a like inheritance would be remitted.
The only difference would be that in one case the time
for payment bad arrived, while in the other it had not,
though in the later case the ultimate obligation to pay
was equally as certain and fixed as in the first case.
Now, did Congress intend to make such an unjust distinction as would result from such an interpretation of the
saving clause in question as shall make the time limit for
payment the test as to whether one tax shall be preserved
and the other remitted in a situation otherwise identical?
The saving clause does not in terms limit the right saved
to a tax or duty which should be due and payable at the
date of the repeal. It is perhaps an obvious suggestion
that if that had been the purpose of Congress, it would
have been easy to make that purpose clear.
But in place of saying in so many words that "all taxes
or duties which should be due and payable prior to the
taking effect of the act" should be subject to the provisions of § 30, etc., the Congress said that "all taxes or
duties imposed by section twenty-nine," etc., prior to the
taking effect of this act, should be subject to the provisions of § 30. Now it is to be noticed that this § 30,
which is the remedial or procedure section, is not one of
the sections repealed. The twenty-ninth section, which
alone imposes any tax, is the one which is repealed. The
plain purpose of the saving clause was to preserve some
liability which had been imposed under § 29, which would
otherwise be lost. This it did by providing that all taxes
"imposed" prior to the going into effect of the act should,
notwithstanding the repeal of the section which originated
the tax, be preserved, and as to collection lien, etc., be

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

subject to the unrepealed § 30. It must also be borne in
mind that this time limit for payment to "one year after
the death of the testator" came into the thirtieth section
only by the amendment of March 2, 1901. Up to the
time of that amendment the only provision as to time was
that still found in the later parts of the same section, namely,
that "before payment and distribution to the legatees"
the executor, administrator or trustee "shall pay to the
the amount of the duty or tax assessed
collector ....
upon such legacy or distributive share, and shall also
make and render (to the collector) a schedule, list or statement, in duplicate, of the amount of such legacy or distributive share, together with the amount of duty which
has accrued, or shall accrue thereon, verified," etc. The
same original section also provided that in case of neglect
to so pay or deliver the.statement 'required "within the
time hereinbefore provided," certain penalties should be
incurred, and that the collector should make out schedules,
etc. This reference to the "time hereinbefore provided"
is in the original section, and must, therefore, refer to a
time before "payment and distribution". to the legatees
and distributees.
It Would seem to follow that the purpose and effect of
the amendment making such tax "due and payable in one
year after the death of the testator," was to advance the
time of payment so as to require payment within one year
if there should be longer delay in paying legacies and
distributive shares, leaving in full force the requirement
that the tax should be paid before the payment of legacies
and distributive shares, if such payment and distribution
should be made in less than one year. We have not passed
over the fact that this timr 1';-it in terms applies only to
the tax due under wills and to the uncertainty as to the
time for the payment of the tax upon distributive shares.
It, however, seems quite obvious that that time limit was
intended to apply to shares in intestate estates, as well as

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to legacies from testators, and that the omission may be
supplied by necessary implication.
It has been suggested that the lien given by § 30 only
attaches when the tax is due and payable. The lien was
in the section before the amendment, and, in view of its
purpose, would attach with the obligation or liability for
the tax. There is no reason which would justify the assumption that the, lien only attached when the day of
payment might arrive, a date most indefinite before the
insertion of the time limit by the amendment of 1902.
But it has been urged that any conclusion which saves
a tax from the effect of a repealing act which was not
actually due and payable is in conflict with Mason V.
Sargent, 104 U. S. 689. That case arose under the inheritance tax law of 1864. The plaintiff's testator died
while the law was in force, it having been repealed October 1, 1870. The legacy to the plaintiff, which was in
that case held to have been illegally taxed, was one payable after the death of the widow of the testator, which
did not occur until 1872, and after the repeal of the law
under which the tax was claimed. But that case is distinguishable from this in more than one particular. The
legacy sought to be taxed did not vest in possession and
enjoyment before the repeal of the act under which it was
supposed to be taxable. If, therefore, no taxable succession occurred during the existence of the inheritance tax
law of '1864, the right to the tax would fail under the very
test which this court in Vanderbilt v. Eidrman made the
test of whether a tax had been imposed during the operation of the act of June 13, 1898, and the very test which
is applied in the present case.
The precise question here involved, and upon which
this case must turn, namely, whether a tax is not at once
'"imposed," by succeeding to an immediate right of
possession and enjoyment, during the operation of the
act of June 13, 1898, in such sense as to be within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.:
MCKENNA, J., THE CHIEF JUSTICE and DAY,

J., dissenting.

218 U. S.

intent of the saving clause in the act which repealed that
act, was not and could not have been involved in the case
cited. The terms, both of the act of 1864, as amended in
1866, and of the act which repealed that act, and of the
saving clause in the repealing act, are in some important
aspects to be differentiated from the acts here involved.
It is enough, however, to say of that case that no taxable
succession having occurred before the repeal of the act,
there was nothing to save by the saving clause in the repealing act. In the present case it is equally as clear that
if no taxable succession actually vested prior to the repeal
of the taxing act, no tax would be saved. If, however,
there did occur such an absolute right to the possession
and enjoyment of the legacies to the present defendants
in error as made it subject at once to the imposition of a
tax under the law in operation when such succession occurred, a very different question must be decided from
any decided in Mason v. Sargent.
The conclusion we reach is, that upon the passing by
death of a vested right to the immediate possession or
enjoyment of a legacy or distributive share, there was
imposed the tax or duty exacted upon every such right of
succession which was saved by the saving clause of the
repealing act.
The question certified must be answered in the negative.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, with whom concurred THE
CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE DAY,

dissenting.

I a'm unable to agree to the judgment of the court. I
regret that time does not serve to give adequate expression to my views or to consider opposing ones. Some of
the elements of dissent I can only hastily give. The question of the interpretation of a statute is, however, seldom
in broad compass. The purpose is to get at the meaning
of the words, and fortunately there are well-known rules

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

MCKENNA,

J., THE

CHIEF JUSTICE

and

DAY,

J., dissenting.

to assist the process. The first of these is the motive of
the law. Whatever construction advances that carries a
presumption of truth.
There must be a strict or liberal construction according
to the purpose of the law, the former if it imposes burdens,
the latter if it relieves from them. The contentions of the
Government, it seems to me, reverse this order. Their
consequences seem to me to be: The law is a taxing one,
is concededly of doubtful meaning, it must nevertheless
be construed against the taxpayer. It was intended to
relieve from burdens, its ambiguities must be resolved to
retain them.
These contradictions between intention and result are
intensified if we consider the general purpose of the law
proclaimed at the time of its enactment. It was intended
as a repeal of war revenue taxation. In other words, to
take from a time of peace burdens laid in a time of war.
A worthy purpose, I submit, and based on wisest considerations of governmental policy, and not to be defeated or
impaired in any of its details by resolving the uncertainties of language against it.
There was emphatic and illustrative unanimity in the
Committee of Ways and Means of the House of Representatives that reported and recommended the law. There
was a difference of opinion in the committee as to the
extent of the reduction which should be made, resulting
from a difference in other views of its members, but there
was no difference as to the necessity of a reduction of
revenue.
The majority of the committee recommended a reduction of $73,000,000; the minority was of opinion it should
be $123,000,000. In the reduction there was a special
item of legacies. The figures need no comment. They
display the purpose of Congress. Words, however, were
added to emphasize it. "Sound business judgment," it
was said, "dictates a sweeping reduction of our revenues."
VOL. CcxviI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
MCKENNA,

J., ThE CHIEF JuSTmeE and DAY, J., dissenting.

218 1J. S.

The final word of recommendation of the measure was
that "every consideration of prudence commends" its
"wisdom." This then was the purpose of the measure,
sanctioned by the highest considerations of judgment and
wisdom. Should it not prevail, certainly have dominance
in the interpretation of the law passed to effect it? Even
as to a live and continuing law, the rule of interpretation
is that taxes must be expressed in clear and unambiguous
language. If there be doubt it is to be resolved against
the Government. Eidman v. Martinez, 184 U. S. 578.
Such a rule of interpretation certainly should be applicable to a statute repealing taxation. To what an anomalous contrast does its disregard bring us? Shall a law
passed to supply the wants of a deficient treasury have a
more restrictive construction than one passed against the
burden of a constantly increasing surplus? Indeed, this
case presents even a stronger contrast. Under the rule of
interpretation announced in Eidman v. Martinez a law
providing for the exigencies of war cannot prevail against
the right of the taxpayer to resist taxation, the authority
for which is equivocally expressed. But peace legislation,
it seems, may claim a mord determined power, though it
have no necessities but the reduction of revenue, though
it proclaims that purpose and is urged to it by governmental policy. It may have a double sense and yet be
unfaltering in its exactions, resisting presumptions of law
and legal rules, but a war measure may not.
I cannot believe that Congress intended to leave uncertainty, or, if uncertainty should inadvertently result,
that it was to be resolved to retain taxes and not abolish
them. And it had the means of certainty, and, I must
assume, availed itself of them. Prior cases had given it
examples of the interpretation of taxing laws-indeed, of
the special kind of taxing laws which it was repealing, and
we may be sure that it had those examples in mind in fixing -the scope of its enactment. And this is in accordance

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

MC IENNA, J., THiE CHiEF Juwr8cE and DAY,

J., disscnting.

with a familiar rule of interpretation which this court has
applied and necessarily will be called upon to apply again.
That is that when provisions which have received judicial
interpretation are used in a statute, they are supposed to
be used with the meaning that had been given to them.
Under any other rule judicial decisions would iiake "not
light but darkness visible."
In Clapp v. Mason, 94 U. S. 589, a statute passed in
1864 subjected to a tax legacies and successions. Under
it a tax was assessed upon certain real estate devised by
Mason to his widow for her life, or until she should cease
to occupy the same as a place of residence, and upon her
death, or ceasing to. occupy the same, to Clapp. The
widow occupied the real estate until June 17, 1872.
Mason, the testator, died December 4, 1867; the tax was
assessed on the fifteenth of May, 1873. It was paid on the
thirty-first, under protest, to avoid distraint or other
forcible process to collect the same.
Under the statute of 1864 the tax would have. been a
proper one, but by a statute passed July 14, 1870, the tax
imposed by the former act Was repealed. The repealing
clause, however, continued the provisions of former acts
levying and collec'ting all taxes properly assessed or liable
to be assessed or accruing under their provisions. It provided also that "any act done, right accrued or penalty
incurred under former acts" should be saved.
The collector insisted that the tax upon the succession
in question had accrued before the repeal of the act of
1864, that is,'upon the death of the testator. The devisees
contended that it did not accrue until they came into
possession of the land, and before that occurred, it was
asserted, the-statute assessing the tax had been repealed.
The court stated the question to be when the right to the
tax accrued, "at the death of the testator, or at the death
of the widow, when the plaintiff became entitled to the
possession of the land?" In answer to the question the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
McKENNA, J., Tn

CHIEF JUSTICE

and

DAY,

J., dissenting.

218

U. S.

court conceded that the will of Mason conveyed an estate
to William P. Mason and Charles H. Parker, (those who
took after the widow,) and that, although they were not
entitled to immediate possession, they had a vested estate..
And it was conceded that not only vested estates, but
those in expectancy, -were within the statute. The admission, however, the court said, did not aid them in
deciding the point before them, as the question of time
still arose, When was the vested estate taxable?
The question was answered by saying, after a consideration of the provisions of the statute, that it would be
difficult to carry out its "system in any other manner
than by the provision that the succession should not be
deemed taxable until such time as the successor should
be entitled to its possession." It was further said:
"The act of 1864 contains no statement or intimation
that this duty creates any lien upon the land, or that any
obligation arises, or that any right accrues at a period
earlier than that fixed for the payment of the duty. See
sections 133, 137.
"It is manifest that the right does not accrue until the
duty can be demanded, that is, when it is made payable;
in other words, at the end of thirty days after becoming
entitled to possession."
The questions were reexamined and decided the same
way in Mason v. Sargent, 104 U. S. 689. The latter case,
however, exhibits more clearly the applicability of the principles discussed to the case at bar. Mason died December 4, 1867. He bequeathed by his will 'certain personal
property to the plaintiffs in the action in trust for his
widow, and upon her death one-half to William P. Mason
and one-half to Eliza R. Cabot. The widow died in 1872.
In April, 1873, the tax in question was assessed. It was
paid under protest and plaintiffs brought the action for
the refunding of the tax on the ground that the property

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

MCRENNA, J., THE CHIEE JTS-rICE and DAY, J., dissenting.

did not vest ,in possession of the legatees until the death
of the testator's widow, which occurred after the repeal
of the legacy succession tax act, and that the tax had not
accrued so as to come within the saving clause of the act
of repeal.
The act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat. 223, 285,
subjected legacies and distributive shares of personal property to a tax passing from a decedent, in the hands of an
executor or administrator, varying in amount according
to the degree of relationship of the beneficiary to the
decedent. It further provided that the tax or duty should
be payable whenever the party interested in the legacy
or shares should become entitled to the possession and
enjoyment thereof. The repealing act contained the saving clause which has been already set out.
The collector contended that the tax had accrued when
the repealing act took effect, October 1, 1870. The opposing contention was that the tax did not become a claim in
favor of the Government until the legacy itself became
payable, which was not until after the death of the widow,
June 17, 1872. The latter contention was sustained and
the tax declared to have been illegally demanded.
It was decided that the legacy was the subject of the
tax; that it was exempt during the life of the widow, and
only became payable upon her death; that it did "not become a subject of taxation until the right" accrued "to
reduce it to possession." The provision of the law which
required the trustee to give written notice to the assessor
of his trust within thirty day;.after he should take charge
of it was declared "not material to the argument," and
that the'provision of the act of 1864, that the tax or duty
thereby imposed should be a lien or charge upon the property .bequeathed for twenty years, or until the same be
paid within that period, determined nothing as to the
time when the tax accrued.
Clcpp v. Mason'was cited as applicable, and the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
MCKENNA, J., THI CiI.iEF JUSTI&E and DAY, J., dissenting.

218 U. S.

concluded as follows: "No right to the payment of the
tax had accrued at the date when the repealing act took
effect; and, therefore, none to collect it can be deduced
from its saving clauses."
. Clapp v. Mason and Mason v. Sargent were followed as
determinative of when, under § 7 of the act of April 12,
1902 (the act now in question), should be regarded as
"imposed" in Eidman v. Tilghman by Circuit Judge Lacoinbe at circuit, and also by the Circuit Court of Appeals
*of the Second Circuit. 131 Fed. Rep. 652; 136 Fed. Rep.
141. The judgment was affirmed by this court by an
equal division of its members. 203*U. S. 580.
A distinction is made between those cases and that at
bar, and there is home distinction in the facts, but not
such, in my opinion, as to take this case out of the principle announced in them. They were made to turn upon
the fact that the tax or duty was upon the legacy or distributive shares. In this they were applied in Sturges v.
United States, 117 U. S. 363, and followed in Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, and Vanderbilt v. Eidman, 196 U. S.
480, in which the act of June 13, 1898, was interpreted.
It is said in Knowlton v. Moore, "that the provisions of the
act of 1864 were in mind when" the act of June 13, 1898,
was drafted. The cases of Clapp v. Mason and Mason v.
Sargent were decided when that act was drafted. Is it not
a fair inference that it and its repealing act were intended
to have the same meaning and interpretation which had
been given to its prototype and its repealing act?
Those cases were also made to turn on the fact that as
the tax was upon the legacy or distributive share, there
could be no tax nor claim in favoD of the Government
until such legacy or share was vested in the possession and
enjoyment of the legatee or distributee. In this again
they were followed in Vanderbilt .v. Eidman. And, it
seems to me, therefore, that there is such resemblance of
the provisions of the act of 1864 to those of the act of

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and

DAY,

J., dissenting.

June 13, 1898, as to make the'cases interpreting the former
decisive precedents of the meaning of the latter.
The time of payment is in both acts at a date subsequent to the death of the testator. In the act of 1898,
one year after his death; in the act of 1864, when the
legacy came into possession and enjoyment. This difference in time can make no difference with the principle that
the tax does not accrue, until it becomes due and payable.
And, I submit is not "imposed" until then, does not become a claim in favor of the Government until then, and
not being such is not saved by § 8 of the repealing act.
The lien does not attach until then. By § 30 of the act of
1898 the tax is due one year after the death of the testator,
and is secured by a lien, but when the lien attaches is not
stated. There is the same silence in the act of 1864. The
omission was supplied by Mason v. Sargent, which declared that the lien presupposed the existence of the tax
and only attached when the tax accrued. This must also
be the meaning of § 30, and we have a further parallel
between the acts completing the application of the cited
cases. Mark, too, the words of § 8. of the repealing act,
associating the tax and the lien, showing how closely the
legislative mind followed the judicial decisions and gave
its legislation, as I think, the certain meaning that the
interpretation of the prior enactments afforded. Section 8 provides as follows: "That all taxes or duties imposed by section 29 . .
shall be subject as to lien,
charge, collection and otherwise to the provisions of
section 30.
"
An argument is made to show that a tax may be said to
be imposed, though it be not due and payable. The argument is answered, I think, by what I have said. A tax is
not imposed by a mere provision for it. Illustrations of
this will readily come to mind besides those afforded by
the cited cases. However, I will not attempt to further
review the contentions of the Government or the opposing

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
MCKENNA, J., THE CHIEF JUSTIC and DAY, J., dissenting.

218 U. S.

ones, nor consider from which the greater embarrassments,
if any, will result. The force of the conflicting contentions, and of course they have force, establish the ambiguity of the statute and the different -meanings that can
be ascribed to it. In such situation the rule of interpretation which I have announced and which I have shown is
sanctioned by this court, should turn decision against the
tax. I will not quote the Circuit Courts and the Circuit
Courts of Appeal, which have so thought and have pronounced against the Government. They make a body of
authority, persuasive in their numbers and rank. And
this court has divided in opinion. I do not mention the
fact as a circumstance which should preclude consideration of the question, but I bring it forward as an element
of some power in the discussion. It may not have the
"true, fixed and resting quality" of stare decisis, but it
has nevertheless strong appeal and persuasion. It has
persisted through quite a period of time and against many
attempts to disturb it. It is certainly something more
patent thaii inaction. It gave authority to the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in Eidman v. Tilihman,
and that again determined other judgments and became
a rule of decision for the settlement of estates.
I think the question certified should be answered in the
affirmative.
I am authorized to say that THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
MR. JUSTICE DAY concur in this dissent.

