RICHARDSON v. McCHESNEY.
218 U. S.

.487

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

RICHARDSON v. McCHESNEY, SECRETARY OF
STATE OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.-

No. 23. Argued October 31, November 1, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.
The duty of this court is limited to actual pending controversies. It
should not pronounce judgment on abstract questions, even if its
opinion might influence future action under like circumstances.
This court judicially knows that the members of Congress elected at
the regular congressional election of November, 1908, have taken
their seats, served their terms, and that their successors have been
elected.
This court also judicially knows when the term of a Secretary of State
of a State expires and whether his successor has been inducted inio
his office.
An action against the Secretary of State of a State to compel him in
certifying nominees for Congress, to proceed under a former apportionment act on the ground that the present act is unconstitution.al, is not a suit against the State, nor is it in this case one against
a continuing board, but against the Secretary of State personally;
and on the termination of his official authority his successor cannot
be substituted.
In this case, as the thing sought to be prevented has been done and
cannot be undone by judicial action, it is now only a moot case.
Writ of error to review 128 Kentucky, 363, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of the Kentucky
act of 1900 apportioning the State into Congressional
districts, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Holt, with whom Mr. George DuRelle,
Mr. W. C. Halbert, Mr. E. L. Worthington and Mr. W. D.
Cochran were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

This court has jurisdiction.

The validity of the Ken-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

tucky statute was distinctly drawn in question -on the
ground that it is repugnant to the provision in the Federal Constitution which guarantees to each State a republican form of government, and on the ground that it is
repugnant to the law of the United States which requires
members of Congress to be elected by districts composed
of contiguous and compact territory and containing as
nearly as practicable an equal number of inhabitants.
The Constitution provides that the times, places and
manner of holding elections for Representatives shall ,be
prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof, but
the Congress may at any time make or alter such regulations. The Congress has acted upon this question,
under this power, and has made regulations as to the
places and manner of holding elections for Representatives by stating that they shall be elected by districts
composed of contiguous and compact territory and containing as nearly as practicable an 'equal number of inhabitants. Nevertheless, the Court of Appeals questions
the right of Congress to thus determine the places and
manner of holding Congressional elections.
The Kentucky act is repugnant to the Federal Constitution, the act of Congress, and Fourteenth Amendment, ยง 2.
While there are no authorities as to Congressional apportionment, there are as to unequal division of representative and senatorial districts in the various States
under similar constitutional provisions. See Williams v.
Secretary of State (Mich.), 108 N. W. Rep. 749; Giddings v.
Blacker, 93 Michigan, 1; Parker v. State, 133 Indiana, 178.
The courts have jurisdiction to determine the validity
of apportionment acts. McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S.
1; Ragland v. Anderson, 125 Kentucky, 141; Purnell v.
Mann, 105 Kentucky, 91; People v. Thompson, 155 Illinois, 460; Parker v. State, 133 Indiana, 178; Denny v.
State, 144 Indiana, 543; Williams v. State,. 108 N. W. Rep.

RICHARDSON v. McCHESNEY.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

749; Giddings v. Blacker, 93 Michigan, 1; State v. Cunningham, 83 Wisconsin, 90; State v. Cunningham, 81 Wisconsin, 440, Sherrill v. O'Brien, 188 N. Y. 185; Brooks,
Clerk, v. State, 162 Indiana, 568, collating all the leading
cases on this subject.
While this court cannot be required to determine a
moot case wherein its judicial power cannot be exercised
and where its judgment would not be final and conclusive upon the rights of the parties, averments of the petition which was dismissed on demurrer present a case
where the judgment of this court will be final and conclusive of the rights of the parties, and this court may.
and should decide upon existing facts, such rights, where
substantial relief can be granted effective for the preservation of the rights of citizens; and where the rights
upon which a decision is asked are substantial rights to
protect which relief should be granted.
The status averred is a continuing status so far as legislation is concerned. This court knows judicially that
no new Congressional apportionment act has been adopted
in Kentucky, and also that provisions in the Federal statutes, to which that act is repugnant, are still in force.
If relief cannot be granted-by this court in this case,
no relief can be given against any gerrymander, no matter'how infamous, if the courts of the State, elected by
the same majority which elects the legislature, do not
wish the relief granted, or are not willing that it should
be. No imputation is designed, however, upon the courts
which have hitherto passed upon this case.
In Kentucky and elsewhere, where relief is sought
against a person in his official capacity to compel or restrain official action, the suit does not abate by reason
of the death, resignation'or expiration of the term of office
of the incumbent officer, even when such fact is pleaded
in the proceeding. Maddox v. Graham & Knox, 2 Metc.
71; City of Louisvrille v. Kean &c., 18 B. Mon. 13.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

There was no brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

Shortly stated, this is an attack upon the validity of
the Kentucky act of March 12, 1898, and certain amendments thereto, apportioning the State into eleven Congressional districts. The bill alleges that the districts
do not conform to the requirement of the acts of Congress
apportioning Representatives among the States, which
acts require that such districts shall be of contiguous territory, "containing as nearly as practicable an equal number of inhabitants." The averments of the bill are that
the districts are grossly and unnecessarily unequal in
population.
The bill was filed in an equity court of the State. A
demurrer, as not stating a case good in law, was sustained and the bill dismissed. This judgment was affirmed
upon an appeal to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
The ground upon which the- Kentucky court rested its
judgment was, in substance, that neither the Constitution of the United States nor of the State contained any
provision which vested in the court any authority to annul an apportionment of the State into districts for the
;'election of Congressmen, and that the matter pertained
to the political department of the government, and was
subject only to the supervising control of the Congress,
if any such power of supervision existed at all.
The bill, in substance, alleges that a Congressional election in each of the eleven Congressional districts of the
State will be held in November, 1908. That under the
law of Kentucky it is the duty of the defendant H. V. McChesney, as secretary of the Commonwealth, or his successor in office at the time, to certify, within sixty days
prior to said election, the names of the nominees of the
Republican and Democratic parties for members of Con-

RICHARDSON v. McCHESNEY.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gress in each district, to clerks of the various county
courts of the State, and the duty of such clerks to print
the names so certified upon the official ballots to be used
in said Congressional election.
The complainant's interest in the matter is that he is
a citizen of the United States and of the State of Kentucky, and a qualified voter and resident of Hart County,
one of the counties of said State, and as such entitled to
vote for a Congressman in the district to which that
county is lawfully attached. The act of the General Assembly dividing the State into Congressional districts
prior to the act of March 12, 1898, was an act passed
April 15, 1882. By this act of 1882 the counties of Hart,
Green and Taylor formed part of the Fourth Congressional district. By the act of March 12, 1898, and acts
amendatory, the three counties named were made part
of the Eleventh district, and certain counties were taken
from the Eleventh and placed in other districts.
The contention is that the act of 1898 and its amendments being void, because of gross inequality of inhabitants, the aforesaid act of April 15, 1882, is the apportionment act in force, and that the approaching election
should be held for the erection of eleven members of Congress in the eleven districts organized by the act of 1882,
and not in the districts as shaped by the later illegal arrangement.
The object and prayer of the bill is to require the defendant H. V. McChesney, or his successor in office, to
proceed in conformity with the apportionment act of
April 15, 1882, by certifying the names of party nominees
for Congress made in districts organized in conformity
with that act, and to require the countycourt clerks, who
are made defendants, to print only the names of nominees so certified upon the ballots for the election of Congressmen at the election to be held in November, 1908,
and that said McChesney, or his successor, be restrailed

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

from certifying, or the defendant clerks from printing,
otherwise.
Without considering the question of the authority for
judicial interference in respect of a Congressional apportionment act, we are of opinion that this writ of error
must be dismissed.
The matter which the defendant McChesney, as secretary of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, is to be prohibited from doing relates solely to an election to be held
in November, 1908, and the thing which he is to be required to do relates only to the same election. The election to be affected by a decree, according to the prayer
of the bill has long since been held, and the members of
Congress were, in Npvember, 1908, elected under the apportionment act of 1900. They were, as we may judicially
know, admitted to their respective seats, and, as we may
also take notice, their successors have been elected according to the same scheme of apportidnment. The thing
sought to be prevented has been done, and cannot be undone by any judicial action. Under such circumstances
there is nothing but a moot case. Mills v. GCeen, 159 U. S.
651; Jones v. Montague, 194 U. S. 147.
The duty of the court is limited to the decision of actual
pending controversies and it should not pronounce judgment upon abstract questions, however such opinion might
influence future action in like circumstances.
Aside from this, we may judicially take notice that the
defendant H. V. McChesney is no longer secretary of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, his term having expired
and a successor having been inducted into office, who has
not been substituted as a defendant to this suit.
This is not a suit against the State of Kentucky. The
State is not the subject of suit. Nor is it a suit against.
the Secretary of State as one of a corporation or continuing board, "where the obligations sought to be enforced
devolve upon a corporation or continuing body," as

HINE v. MORSE.
218 U.S.

Syllabus.

pointed out in United States v. Butterworth, 169 U. S.
600, 603, distinguishing Commissioner v. Sellew, 99 U. S.
624, and Thompson v. United States, 103 U. S. 480. The
only ground for making McChesney a defendant is to
enjoin him personally from *doing something which hc
may not lawfully do, and to require him personally to do
another thing which it is claimed is his legal duty to do as

an administrative act requiring no discretion. If he disobey the mandate or injunction of the court he personally would be in contempt. He only can be rightly made
to bear the costs of this proceeding if the complainant
should succeed, and he only could be compelled to obey
the decree of the court. As his official authority has terminated, the case, so far as it seeks to accomplish the object of the bill, is at an end, there being no statute providing for the substitution of McChesney's successor in
a suit of this character. The case is governed by United
States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604; United States v. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600, and Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker,
196 U. S. 432, 441.
Dismiss the writ of error.

UNITED STATES TO THE USE OF HINE v. MORSE
AND OTHERS, EXECUTORS OF CLARKE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 25.

Argued November 1, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Even if the bill seeking a sale of infant's property for reinvestment
does not clearly state a case within the authority of the-court, the
decree of sale, appointment of trustee and execution of his bond are
not mere nullities subject to collateral attack.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is one of general ju-

