FRANKLIN v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

FRANKLIN v. STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 164.

Argued April 20, 21, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

On writ of error to review a judgment of conviction of the state court
this court has no jurisdiction to notice errors other than those
which involve alleged violations of Federal rights. The States have
the right to administer their own laws for the prosecution of crime
so long as fundamental rights secured by Federal law are not denied.
Whether provisions as to qualifications of jurors and electors in subsequently adopted constitution and subsequently enacted laws of one
of the States enumerated in the act of Congress of June 25, 1868,
c. 70, 15 Stat. 73, providing that the constitution of such States
should never be amended so as to deprive citizens of the United
States of their rights as electors, violate such act will not be determined at the instance of a person convicted of crime unless it appears that persons qualified under the Federal act were disqualified
and thereby prevented from serving on the jury by the constitution
and laws the validity whereof is attacked.
Quwre whether the act of June 25, 1868, c. 70, 15 Stat. 73, does restrict
the States enumerated therein in fixing the qualifications for suffrage
within such States respectively.
Where the real objection is that a grand jury is so made up as to exclude persons of the race of accused the facts establishing the contention must be averred and proved. Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316.
Where the state court has held that under the state jury law the commissioners are only required to select men of good moral character
and that competent negroes are equally eligible with other, this
court cannot hold tfiat anegro is denied equal protedtion of the law
by reason of the statute because the commissioners have not selected any negroes for the grand jury which indicted him; and so
held as to the jury law of 1902 of South Carolina.
The granting and- denial of continuances are matters within the discretion of the trial court and are not ordinarily reviewable; in this
ease the refusal to grant a continuance did not amount to a denial
of due process of law to the accused.
Quwre, and not decided in this case, to 'what extent one can resist
arrest under process issued under a void or unconstitutional law.
VOL. CCXvI-II-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Where one about to be arrested by an officer of the law under proce-,
'issued under a law which is unconstitutional shoots the officer upon
his entering the room, the question of right of resistance to arrest is
for the jury and the accused is not entitled to a peremptory in-

-struction of dismissal, nor is he denied due process of law under the
Fourteenth Amendment by the refusal of the court to give such instruction because the process was issued under a statute violative
of the Thirteenth Amendment to wit, § 357 of the Criminal-Code of
South Carolina in regard to agricultural contracts.
80 So. Car. 332, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jacob Moorer and Mr. John Adams, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte submitted a supplemental
brief for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. Fraser Lyon, Attorney General of the State of
4uth Carolina, and Mr. D. S. Henderson, with whom
Ir. C. M. Efird and Mr. B. H. Moss were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, Pink Franklin, a citizen of the
negro race, was convicted, in the Court of General Sessions for the county of Orangeburg, South Carolina, of
the crime of murder by the shooting of one H. E. Valentine; thereupon he was sentenced to suffer the death
penalty, and upon appeal to the Supreme Court of South
Carolina the judgment of the Court of General Sessions
was affirmed. State v. Franklin, 80 So. Car. 332. The
case is here upon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
South Carolina.
The record discloses that the homicide occurred upon
the attempt of H. E. Valentine, a constable, to arrest
Franklin upon a charge of "having violated and broken

FRANKLIN v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an agricultural contract," against the form of a statute
made and provided in such cases in the State of South
Carolina. The statute referred to is § 357 of the criminal
code of South Carolina, which provides:
"Any laborer working on shares of crop or for wages in
money or other valuable consideration under a verbal or
written contract to labor on farm lands, who shall receive
advances either in, money or supplies and thereafter wilfully and without just cause fail to perform the reasonable
service required of him by the terms of said contract, shall
be liable to prosecution for a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by imprisonment for not less
than twenty days nor more than thirty days, or to be
fined in the sum of not less than twenty-five dollars nor
more than one hundred dollars, in the discretion of the
court: Provided, The verbal contract herein referred to
shall be witnessed by at least two disinterested witnesses."
'Upon the filing of the complaint before a magistrate
what is termed an arrest warrant was issued directed to
Henry E. Valentine, as special constable, commanding
him to apprehend the plaintiff in error because of the
alleged violation of the agricultural contract, and to bring
him before the magistrate to be dealt with according to
law.
As it becomes necessary, in considering the Federal
(uestions raised in the record, to know the facts concerning the homicide we take occasion to briefly summarize
such as ar pertinent. The testimony offered for the State
and that -offered for the plaintiff in error differed widely
as to what occurred at the time the constable was shot.
The record discloses that about the time of the attempted
arrest Valentine,-the constable, summoning one Carter to
-ssist him, about three o'clock on the morning of the
homicide. proceeded to the farm of one Spires, who lived
near to Franklin's house, and requested him to induce
Franklin to go to his house that he might be there arrested.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S

Accordingly, Spires went to Franklin's, and, having
aroused him, asked him to do some plowing for him.
Franklin replied that he would do the plowing that afternoon, but could not work for Spires that morning. Thereupon Valentine and Carter went to Franklin's house to
make the arrest. For the State the testimony tended to
show that the door of Franklin's house and the inner door
of his bedroom were open; that Valentine rapped with a
knife on the steps of the house, and called fo Franklin, and
received no response; that Valentine therefipon directed
Carter to go around the house, which he did, and Valentine, entering the door, was instantly shot by Franklin,
and Valentine's pistol was seized and wrung from his hand;
that after he was shot a colored woman came in with an
axe and said that she had a good will to finish up the job;
that Carter, upon hearing the pistol shots, which were
fired in rapid succession, ran around the house, and was
caught by the leg by Franklin's son, a small boy; that
upon entering the house he, too, was shot, receiving a
slight wound.
On the other hand, the accused testified that he had no
acquaintance with Valentine; that he did not know that
he was an officer of the law and armed with a warrant for
his arrest; that he heard nothing until the door was hurled
open, and Valentine said to him "Hands up!" that he
(Franklin) did not move; that Valentine shot him, inflicting-a wound in his shoulder; that he fell down by his
pallet, got his gun, and fired, intending to get out of the
way, and did get out as fast as he could.
In a proceeding of this kind this court has no jurisdiction to notice other errors than those which involve alleged violations of Federal rights secured by the Constitution of the United States or Federal statutes. The
States have the right to administer their own laws for
the prosecution of crinic, and the jurisdiction of this court
extends only to the reversal of such state proceedings

FRANKLIN v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

where fundamental rights secured by the Federal law
have been denied by the proceedings in the state courts.
Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425, 434, and cases there cited.
We will proceed then to examine the errors assigned
which may be fairly said to raise Federal questions reviewable here. A motion was made to quash the indictment because of the disqualification of the grand jury
which returned it. The argument being that the Federal
act of June 25, 1868, c. 70, 15 Stat. 73, provides that the
constitutions of certain States, including South Carolina,
should never be amended or changed so as to deprive any
citizen, or class of citizens of the United States, of the
right to vote in said State given to them by the constitution thereof named in the act, except for the punishment
for crimes such as are now 'felonies at common law,
whereof they shall have been duly convicted under laws
equally applicable to all the States. The necessary qualifications of voters in South Carolina at that time were
defined in § 2, art. 8, of the constitution of South Carolina of 1868, and were: "Every male citizen of the United
States of the age of twenty-one years and upward, not
laboring under the disabilities named in this constitution,
without distinction of race, color or former condition,
who shall be a resident of this State at. the time of the
adoption of this constitution, or who shall reside thereafter
in this State one year and in the county in which he offers
to vote sixty days next preceding any election, shall be
entitled to vote for all officers that are now or hereafter
may be elected by the people, and upon all questions submitted to the electors at any election: Provided, That no
such person be allowed to vote or to hold office who is
now or hereafter may be disqualified therefor by the Constitution of the United States until such disqualification
be removed by Congress of the United States: Provided
further, That no person while kept in any alnshouse or
asylum, or of unsound mind, or confined in any public

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

prison, shall be allowed to vote or to hold office." These
qualifications for voters were changed by the constitution
of 1895, and now are:
"Art. 2, Sec. 4. The qualification for suffrage shall be
as follows: '(a) residence in the State for two years, in the
county one year, in the polling precinct in which the
elector offers to vote, four months, and the payment six
months before any election of any poll tax then due and
payable; . . . (d) Any person who shall apply for
registration after January first, 1908, if otherwise qualified
shall be registered: Provided, That he can both read and
write any section of this constitution submitted to him
by the registration officer, or can show that he owns and
has paid all taxes collectible during the previous year on
property in this State assessed at three hundred dollars
($300) or more.' "
This change in the qualification for voters, it is said,
worked a deprivation of the rights of the accused, be-'
cause the qualification of grand jurors under the constitution 6f 1895, they being required to be electors of the
State, made eligible different persons than those who
were qualified to be electors under the constitution of
1868. As to this contention the South Carolina Supreme
Court held that the constitution of 1895 laid no restriction on color or previous condition to entitle one to be
an elector; that the act of Congress of 1868 had no reference to the selection of jurors, and that it was inapplicable
to the constitution of the State in regard to juries.
If it could be held that the act of Congress restricted
the State of South Carolina in fixing the qualifications for
suffrage it is unnecessary to decide the point in this case,
as there is nothing in the record to show that the grand
jury, as actually impanelled, contained any person who
was not qualified as an elector under the constitution of
1868, nor is there anything to show that the grand jury
was so made up as to prevent citizens of the race of the

FRANKLIN v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
21,S U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error from sitting thereon. There was no
allegation in the motion to quash upon this ground or
offer of proof in the case to show that persons of the
African race were excluded because of their race or color
from serving as grand jurors in the criminal prosecution
of a person of that race, therefore the case does not come
within the rule laid down in Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S.
442; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226, and kindred cases.
Moreover, if the restriction upon the right to-fix qualifications for suffrage in the Federal act could have the effect
contended for as to subsequent state action, there was
nothing in the act to prevent the selection of grand jurors
having the qualifications prescribed for electors in the
constitution of 1895, in the absence of a showing that
such legislation operated to exclude citizens from such
juries on account of race, In re Shibuya Jugiro, 140 U. S.
297, 298. In this class of cases when the real objection
is that a grand jury is so made up as. to exclude persons
of the race of the accuised from serving in that capacity
it is essential to aver and prove such facts as establish the
contention. Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S.316.
It is next contended, concerning the jury law of South
Carolina, that it confers arbitrary power upon the jury
commissioners in selecting jurors. Section 2 of the act of
1902 provides (p. 1066):
"They [the jury commissioners] shall . . . prepare
a list of such qualified electors under the provisions of the
constitution, between the ages of twenty-one and sixtyfive years, and 'of good moral character, of their respective
counties as they may deem otherwise well qualified to
serve as jurors, being persons of sound judgment and free
from all legal exceptions, which list shall include not less
than one from every three of such qualified electors," etc.
We do not think there is anything in this provision of
the statute having the effect to deny rights secured by the
Federal CGmstitution. It gives to the jury commissioners

OCTOBER. TERM; 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218

V. S.

t4e right to select electors of good moral character, such
as they may deem qualified to serve as jurors, being persons of sound judgment and free from all legal exceptions.
There is nothing in this statute which discriminates against
individuals on account of race or color or previous condition, or which subjects such persons to any other or different treatment than other electors who may be qualified
to serve as jurors. The statute simply provides for an
exercise of judgment in attempting to secure competent
jurors of proper qualifications. Murray v. Louisiana,
163 U. S. 101, 108; Gibson 'v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.'565,
589.
Under this statute the Supreme Court of South Carolina held that the jury commissioners were only required
to select men of good moral character, and that competent
colored men were equally eligible with others for such
service. We find no denial of Federal rights in this provision of the statute.
It is next contended that the plaintiff in error was
denied due process of law in the refusal of the court to
continue his case when the same was called for trial. It
is elementary that the matter of continuance rests in the
sound discretion of the trial court, and its action in that
respect is not ordinarily reviewable. It would take an
extreme case to make the action of the trial court in such
a case a denial of due process of law. A continuance was
asked for because, it was alleged, the counsel for the accused had not had sufficient time or opportunity to examine the notes of the testimony taken before the coroner
who investigated the case. The record discloses that, in
support of the motion to continue, counsel for the plaintiff in error made affidavit that two weeks before the
beginning of. the term he had called upon the clerk of
the court and asked to see the testimony taken before the
coroner, and that the clerk had infqrrned him that the
coroner kept his boQk in a room upstairs, but that the

FRANKLIN v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

room was locked at the time; that the plaintiff in error's
counsel thereupon made a search for the coroner, and that,
failing to find him, he called upon the solicitor for the
State, and asked him if he had the original testimony,
and the same was handed him, which testimony was
partly in shorthand, and, the stenographer who took the
same being out of town at the time, counsel for the accused co Id, therefore, not get a proper and intelligent
reading of the testimony. Counsel for the -accused further deposed that he called upon the deputy sheriff and
asked him to go into the room used by the grand jury at
the time to get the coroner's book. This was on I.uesday
or Wednesday of the week of the trial. He found upon
examination that the testimony had-not been copied into
the coroner's book, and that, therefore, the counsel were
not enabled to read and become familiar with the testimony "absolutely needed for contradiction on the trial
of such causes." Counsel for the State stated in this connection that when the attorney for the accused came to
his office and asked for the coroner's inquisition he handed
to him the papers in the case, telling him at the time that
he did not know whether he could read them or not, because they were written in a kind of short or running
hand; that he had suppressed, no record in the case, and
had given the counsel all the records which he had;.that
the record was written in a kind of running long hand;
that the young man who took the testimony was out of
town at the time, and that he had so stated. Upon this
showing the court declined to continue the case. Certainly there was no deprivation of due process of law in
this action.
It is next contended that the court erred in refusing to
direct a verdict upon motion of the defendant's counsel
at the. close of the testimony, because the warrant on
which the deceased attempted to arrest the plaintiff in
error was null and void, because the act under which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

was issued was unconstitutional, and this, so far as Federal questions are concerned, because it was in violation
of Article IV :of, and repugnant to the Thirteenth and
Fourteenth Amendments to, the Federal Constitution.
Responding to this motion to direct an acquittal, the
court said:
"It is not necessary to argue that point further, even
if you were to establish the fact that the warrant was
null and void, or even if the man had no warrant at all it
would not be competent for the court to direct a verdict
in favor of the defendant Pink Franklin, and the motion is
refused. I will also leave it to the jury as to the guilt or
innocence of the other defendant. I don't care to discuss
the matter, but I do not apprehend that it is a case in
which the court ought to direct a verdict in case of either
of the defendants, and the motion is therefore refused."
The only Federal question raised in this connection is
found in this denial of the motion to direct a verdict in
favor of the accused, because the statute under which he
was sought to be arrested was void under the Federal
Constitution, and the warrant issued for his arrest under
such unconstitutional law therefore void and of no effect.
That the statute under which the proceedings were had
and the warrant issued is unconstitutional was held by
the Supreme Court of South Carolina in Ex parteHoilman,
79 So. Car. 1. In that case the court reached the conclusion that the statute in question not only violated the
constitution of the State, but was in contravention of the
Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States and § 1990 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, known as the peonage
statute. See Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S. 207.
But an inspection of this record does not disclose that
by any request to charge, or otherwise, any advantage
was sought to be taken of the unconstitutionality, of the
act other than is found in the request for the peremptory

FRANKLIN v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
218. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

instruction to acquit the accused. Even if one attempted
to be arrested under process issued under a void and unconstitutional law has the right to resist arrest, even to
the taking of human life, a point we do not find it necessary to decide, the case could not have been taken from
the jury upon the testimony disclosed in this record.
The right to make such resistance to the officer, under the
circumstances here shown, must have been left to the
determination of the jury under proper instructions. In
this case, if the State's testimony is to be believed, the
accused without any warning, or resorting to any other
means of resistance, and after the constable had knocked
for admission, shot the officer upon his entering the open
door armed with a supposed warrant of arrest. Upon
this showing the case could certainly not be taken from
the jury because of any supposed right to resist with all
necessary force an unlawful arrest because of the invalidity of the statute or the warrant issued in pursuance
thereof.
It was insisted in the oral argument of this case, and
an elaborate brief was filed by eminent counsel, making
the contentions that the proceedings for the arrest of the
accused were in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment
to the Constitution and of § 1990 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, abolishing and prohibiting
peonage, and declaring null and void the resolutions,
regulations and usages of any State or Territory in that
respect; and that they were in violation of § 5526 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, punishing any person who holds, arrests or returns, or causes to be held,
arrested or returned, or in any way aids in the arrest or
return of any person to a condition of peonage, and were
in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment. This being so,
and the statute and the warrant being illegal and void,
the accused, it is contended, had the right to use all reasonable force to protect his person, his liberty and his habi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909,
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

tation from such unlawful arrest, and that, therefore, the
firing of the fatal shot was only a reasonable use of force
for the defense of the accused under the circumstances
shown.
But, as we have said, the only attempt to raise questions
of a Federal character concerning the validity of the statute and the warrant under which it was issued, and the
right to resist arrest under such warrant, was in the request for a peremptory instruction for an acquittal. Even
upon the theory of his rights now advanced he was not
entitled to a peremptory instruction taking the case from
the jury.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina considered and
overruled certain grounds of appeal, which embrace objections to the charge. But we do not find in these rulings any determination of Federal questions adverse to
the plaintiff in error which would warrant a reversal of
the judgment by this court. These rulings were upon
questions, of general law, concerning which no Federal
right was' asserted and denied as is essential to enable
this court to review the judgment of a state court.
After giving this case the examination its importance
deserves, in view of its gravity, we are unable to find in
the record anything which worked a deprivation of Federal rights warranting this *court in disturbing the judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina, and the
judgment is affirmed.
Affirmed.

