OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

protection of the law clause substantially denies the
right of the State to impose any tax on the share of the
wife in the community property resulting from the termination of the community by the death of the husband,
or in substance assumes that we have the right to review
the action of the State court in deciding that the tax law
which it enforced was applicable. We say this because
the entire argument proceeds upon the contentibn that as

the share of the wife in the community property was a
vested interest during the life of the husband, it could
not on the death of the husband be taxed differently
from any other property, ,iz., according to value, with-

out violating the rennstitution of California and creating
an inequality repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. But this merely rests upon the mistaken conception previously dispos~d of, since the nature and character of the right of the wife in the comnmunity for the purpose of taxation was peculiarly a local question which
we have no power to review.
Affirmed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
COMMERCIAL MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAA'.
No. 15. Argued October 26, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Intercourse between the States by telegraph is interstate commerce.
Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Western Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.

While a state statute which imposes positive duties and regulates the
peiformance of business of a telegraph company is void as a direct
regulation of interstate commerce, as decided in Western Un. Tel.
Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, a statute which imposes no addi-

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tional duty but gives sanction only to an inherent duty and declares,
as to a public service, the public policy of the State, does not entail
any burden on interstate commerce and is not void under the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
Public service corporations are subject to police regulation, and while
the police power is not unlimited it does include provisions, in pursuance of the public policy of the State, against such a corporation
limiting its liability, for its own negligence, and a statute to that
effect does not deprive the public service' corporation affected
thereby of its property without due process of law.
A classification of telegraph companies in a statute prohibiting limitation of liability is reasonable and does not deny equal protection
of the law to telegraph companies because it does not apply to common carriers.
The statute of Michigan of 1893, fixing the liability of telegraph companies fQr non-delivery of messages at the damages sustained by
the sender, is not, as applied to interstate messages, unconstitutional
as a burden on, or regulation of, interstate commerce, or as depriving telegraph companies of their property without due process of
law or denying them the equal protection of the laws.
The common law does not become a part of the law of a State of its
own vigor but is adopted by constitutional provision, statute or
decision; it expresses the policy of the State for the time being only
and is subject to be changed by the power that adopted it. It has
no efficacy that the statute changing it does not possess.
Whether a prohibition affecting interstate commerce as construed by
the highest court of a State rests on the common-law liability or on
a statute of that State makes no difference in determining its validity under the Constitution of the United States.
151 Michigan, 425, affirmed.

THIS is an action for damages for failure to deliver a
telegram given to the telegraph company at, Detroit,
Michigan, to be delivered at Kansas City, Missouri.
On August 15, 1904, the milling company was offered
ten thousand bushels of wheat, of a certain kind, at
$1.01 a bushel, for immediate acceptance. The telegram
in controversy was sent to accept the offer. It was
promptly transmitted by the company. to its relay station
at Chicago within a minute or two after it was filed at
Detroit. What became of it afterwards is not shown; it

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

218 U. S.

was not delivered. On the face of the telegram were the
following words: "Send the following message, without
repeating, subject to the terms and conditions printed on
the back hereof, which are hereby agreed to." One of the
conditions referred to was this: "It is agreed
that the said company shall not be liable . . . for
non-delivery of any unrepeated message beyond the
amount received for the same." Fifty times the amount
received for the message was fixed as the damages, for
non-delivery in case of its repetition, and there was a provision for insurance upon the payment of a premium.
The case was tried to a jury and the milling company
gave evidence of the above facts and of its damages. The
telegraph company offered no evidence. The telegraph
company asked certain instructions, which, to understand,
the statute of the State in regard to telegrams must be
given. It is entitled "An act to prescribe the duties of
telegraph companies incorporated, either within or without
this State, relative to the transmission of messages, and to
provide for the recovery of damages for negligence in the
performance of such duties." Laws of 1893, No. 195,
p. 312. Section 1 of the act provides as follows:
"Szc. 1. The people of the State of Michigan enact that
it shall be the duty of all telegraph companies incorporated
either within or without this State, doing business within
this State, to receive dispatches from and for other telegraph companies' lines and from and for any individual,
and on payment of the usual charges for individuals for
transmitting dispatches as established by the rules and
regulations of such telegraph company, to transmit the
same with impartiality and good faith. Such telegraph
companies shall be liable for any mistakes, errors or delays in the transmission or delivery or for the non-delivery
of any repeated or non-repeated message, in damages to
the amount which such person or persons may sustain by
reason of the mistakes, errors or delays in the transmission

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

or delivery, due to the negligence of such company; or for
the non-delivery of any such dispatch due to the negligence of such telegraph company or its agents, to be recovered with the costs of suit by the person or persons
sustaining such damage."
As to the statute, the telegraph company requested the
court to instruct the jury (1) that it did not ptonibit a
contract like the one made by the parties; (2) the milling
company must recover on the contract or not at all;
(3) the message was interstate commerce and the statute
cannot be held to apply to it. If the statute be held to be
prohibitory it.is void as an attempted regulation of interstate commerce, in violation, of the interstate commerce
the Constitution of the United States.
clause
The of
court refused the instructions, and expressed
in its
charge to the jury a view antagonistic to the propositions
of law expressed in them. A verdict was rendered for the
milling company in the sum of $960. The telegraph company moved for a new trial, repeating the propositions
expressed in the instructions, and added the further
ground that the statute, when construed as prohibiting
contracts between persons sui juris, is in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Judgment was entered on the verdict, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State by a divided
court.
Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. C. D. Joslyn, Mr.
George H. Fearons and Mr. Henry D. Estabrook were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
There was an express contract, the terms of which, if
valid, would defeat any recovery by the milling company.
This court, and the Supreme Court of Michigan, have
said that the conditions imposed by this contract are
reasonable and binding whether the sender's attention
was directed to them or not. Primrose v. West. Un. Tel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

Co., 154 U. S. 1; Birkett v. West. Un. Tel. (o., 103 Michigan, 361.
The Michigan statute so construed as to include interstate messages violates the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
With regard to interstate commerce, States in the exercise of their police power may not directly interfere with it,
but, in caring for the health, safety and welfare of the
people within their boundaries, they may adopt legislation which incidentally affects interstate commerce, but
they have not any control over interstate commerce beyond their own boundaries. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, can be distinguished. And see West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Chiles, 214 U. S. 274; Walling v. Michigan,
116 U. S.' 455; Wilton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282;
County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Brown v.
Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 631; Wabash Ry. Co. v. Illinois,
118 U. S. 577.
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, applies only
when confined to intrastate messages. Nor do Pennsylvania Ry. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Chicago & Mil.
Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, govern this case as they'
might had it been for damages resulting from negligence
of the telegraph company in Michigan. In those cases it
was simply attempted to enforce the laws of the State
within its own borders, while in the case at bar an attempt
is made to give the effect of a state statute beyond the
borders of the State.
The statute in this case, as construed by the Supreme
Court of Michigan, is a regulation of interstate commerce.
Primafacie, therefore, it is invalid.
The statute cannot be said to be confined in its scope
to the enforcement of the performance of duty, owed by
the company under the general law; in both cases it is a direct discouragement, obstruction and impediment to interstate commerce which Congress has not seen fit to permit.

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The statute, as construed, violates the Fourteenth
Amendment by abridging privileges and immunities of
citizens of the United States. It deprives the telegraph
company and the persons with whom it does business of
their liberty and property, without due process of law.
While the police power of a State -over the right of
contract cannot be defined, there is a limit somewhereand its exercise must be for some public good and must be
reasonable. Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 56;
Primrose v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 154 U. S. 1; Birkett v.
West. Un. Tel. Co., 103 Michigan, 361. The attempted
prohibition of such a contract by the legislature is unreasonable and beyond its power.
The statute denies to the telegraph company and the
persons with whom it does business the equal protection
of the laws. Express companies and other common carriers can limit their liability. Smith v. Am. Express Co.,
108 Michigan, 572, 578; Mich. Central Ry. Co. v. Hale, 6
Michigan, 243; Dorr v. N. J. Steam Navigation Co., 1
Kern. 493; McMillan v. M. S. & N. Ry. Co., 16 Michigan,
109.
Contracts of this nature generally are not, in Michigan,
void' as against public policy. Express companies, railroad companies, telephone companies and telegraph companies are all of the same nature in that they are quasipublic utilities. Telegraph companies in this State are
not common carriers, and it has been recognized both by
this court and by the Supreme Court of Michigan that
public policy requires of them not a greater but a lesser
liability than in the case of common carriers. See Hadley
v. Baxendale, 9 Exch. 345.
Mr. Ralph B. Wilkinson for defendant in error:
In the absence of congressional legislation upon the
subject, the State may require a common carrier, although in the execution of a contract for interstate car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

218 U. S.

riage, to use great care and diligence in the carrying of
passengers and the transportation of goods and to be
liable for the whole loss resulting from negligence in the
discharge of its duties. Penna. R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191
U. S. 479; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347; Chicago,
M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133.
Although this court has not directly passed upon the
precise question presented in the case at bar in any suit
where a telegraph company has been party to the action, the Hughes ease is on all fours with this present case.
As to the question, involving telegraph companies themselves, see Jones on Telegraph & Telephone Companies,
ยง 432; Wharton on Conflict of Laws, 3d ed., ยง 471f;
Joyce on Electric Law, 2d ed., ยง 123; Bushnell v. Chicago
& N. W. R. R. Co., 69 Iowa, 620; Cutts v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 71 Wisconsin, 46; Telegraph Co. v. Beals, 56 Nebraska, 415; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Lowrey, 49 N. W. Rep.
707; West. Un. Tel. Co., v. Cook, 9 C. C. A. 680; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Reynolds, 77 Virginia, 173; Thompson on the
Law of Electricity, ยง 192.
The statute in question is not in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution. 'It does not interfere
with or obstruct such commerce, nor regulate the manner
in which it shall be conducted, nor fix the rates of service,
nor levy any tax upon it, nor does it even impose a penalty. It merely recognizes that the common-law liability exists, antd by implication, or in effect, prohibits
its nullification by contract. It only declares the law of
Michigan to be the same as the common law of the other
States as laid down by their respective courts.
This case is for failure to deliver a telegram, not for a
mistake in transmission, and there is a vital difference.
Thompson v. Telegraph Co., 107 N. C. 449;. U. S. Tel. Co.
v. Wenger, 55 Pa. St. 262.
A common carrier is liable for damages. to' goods hap-

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pening on his own line no matter where that line may be.
Richmond v. Tobacco Co., 169 U. S.311. The statute attaches before the subject of 'interstate commerce comes
into existence. Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38.
The statute does not violate the clause of the Constitution prohibiting the States from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts, nor is it in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment either as to due process,
Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S.13; McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; or the equal protection of the
laws, Smith v. American Express Co., 108 Michigan, 572;
U. S. Tel. Co. v. Wenger, 55 Pa. St. 262. See also on this
subject: W. U. Tel. Co. v. Blanchard,.68 Georgia, 299;
W. U. Tel. Co. v. Chamblee, 122 Alabama, 428; W. U:
Tel. Co. v. Short, 53 Arkansas, 434; W. U. Tel. Co. v.
Meek, 49 Indiana, 53; Ayer v. W. U. Tel. Co., 79 Maine,
493; Wertz v. W. U. Tel. Co., 7 Utah, 446; Southern Express Co. v. Calduell, 21 Wall. 264; Francis.v. W. U. Tel.,
Co., 58 Minnesota, 252..
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the court.
Intercourse between the btates by the telegraph is interstate commerce. Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460,
464; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. 5. 347,
356. So considering, one division of the Supreme Court of
Michigan was of the opinion that the statute of the State
in regard to telegraph messages, if not limited to 'those
which were delivered within the State, would be unconstitutional. In arriving at that conclusion it was considered whether the common law of the State prohibited
the stipulation against liability foi negligence, and it was
asked, if it did not, "Can a statute of a State deny to one
engaged in interstate commerce the right which he theretofore possessed of making a contract limiting his lia-

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

bility?" The first question was answered in the negative,
on the authority of the Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Carew, 15 Michigan, 525, and subsequent cases. The
second question was also answered in the negative, as we
have seen. It was, in effect, said that if the first question
could be answered in the affirmative the case would be
determined by the local law, and there would be no power
of revision in this court, citing Delmas v. Ins. Co., 14 Wall.
661, and Penn. R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477. This
presents the seeming paradox that a prohibition against
a limitation of liability, if prescribed by the common law,
would be valid, and that a like'prohibition prescribed by
a statute would not be. It is not clear whether it is
meant to be said that in the first instance there would be,
and in the second instance there would not be, a proper
limitation of the liberty of contract and a valid interference with interstate commerce.
The other division of the court, on the other hand, expressed the view that "the legislature intended its action
to be coextensive with its authority to act, and that the
statute should be given the broadest possible application," and held to cover state and interstate messages
and "to forbid a limitation of liability" for negligence
and "to make void the stipulation contained in the contract." The power of the legislature to pass it was asserted, and that it did not burden interstate commerce.
"The contract," it was said, "was made in the State, is
single, involves in its performance service of defendant
within and without this State for a single charge." The
service was not performed, and for the breach of the common law and contract duty the milling company has
brought suit, it was said, and that the telegraph company
seeks to avoid liability by the stipulation on the back of
the message. To this defense it was answered:
"By the law of the State, the stipulation is of no force
or effect. The court so declared. It is contended here

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U.S.

opinion of the Court.

that in so doing the court was in error. It will be well
to have in mind the effect of the statute as it was applied
*by the trial court. Undoubtedly, it was the application
of a local law to the contract. But the local law does not
attempt to state, measure or define any duty of defendant, or to establish, define or fix the consequences of its
miscarriage. The liability .of defendant is established
without reference to the statute. It is when it asks to be
discharged therefrom, by giving effect to the stipulation,
that the local law becomes, if at all, effective. These considerations answer those objections which are based upon
the notion that the local law has been given extraterritorial effect, and they require, also, that this case and
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, shall
be distinguished."
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347,
leaves nothing to be said upon the principles relating to
interstate telegraphic messages and the limitations upon
the States of power to regulate them. A statute of Indiana was adjudged invalid which prescribed that dispatches should be transmitted in the order of their de-livery, whether intended for delivery within or without
the State, "under penalty, in case of failure to transmit,
or if postponed out of such order, of one hundred dollars,
to be recovered by the person whose dispatch is neglected or postponed." The statute was construed by the
Supreme Court of the State to apply to dispatches not
delivered in the State, even against the practice of the
companies authorized by the laws of another State. The
message was delivered to the telegraph company in Indiana, addressed to the care of a person in Ottumwa,
Iowa, who lived over a mile from the telegraph station,
and not within the delivery district. These facts were
set up in the answer and, that in accordance with the
custom and usage of the office, and, in order to facilitate
the delivery of the mesage, a copy of the telegram was

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

promptly placed in the post-office, properly addressed and
delivered the following morning. And it was averred
that this was in accordance with the laws of Iowa. A demurrer was sustained to the answer and judgment entered for the plaintiff for the sum of $100. It was affirmed
by the Supreme Court; it was reversed by this court on
the ground that the statute was a regulation of interstate
commerce. Of the correctness of that conclusion there
cannot be any controversy, but there is a manifest difference between the statute of Indiana and the statute
of Michigan and of their purposes and effects. The
former imposed affirmative duties and regulated the performance of the business of the telegraph company. It
besides ignored the requirements or regulations of another State, made its laws paramount to the laws of
another State, gave an action for damages against the
permission of such laws for ac~ts done within their jurisdiction. Such a statute was plainly a regulation of interstate commerce, and exhibited in a conspicuous degree the
evils of such interference by a State and the necessity of
one uniform plan of regulation. The statute of Michigan
has no such objectionable qualities. It imposes no additional duty. It gives sanction only to an inherent duty.
It declares that in the performance of a service, public in
its nature, that it is a policy of the State that there shall
be no contract against negligence. The prohibition of
the statute, therefore, entails nd burden. It permits no
release from that duty in the public service which men
in their intercourse must observe, the duty of observing
the degree of care and vigilance which the circumstances
justly demand, to avoid injury to another.
We have seen that one division of the Supreme Court
of the State was of the view that if the prohibition rested
on the common law its validity could not be questioned.
We cannot concede' such effect to the common law and
deny it to a statute. Both are rules of conduct proceed-

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing from the supreme power of the State. That one is
unwritten and the other written can make no difference
in'their validity or effect. The common law did not become a part of the laws of the States of its own vigor. It
has been adopted by constitutional provision, by statute
or decision, and, we may say in passing, is not the same
in all particulars in all the States. But however adopted,
it expresses the policy of the State for the time being only
and is subject to change by the power that adopted it.
How then can it have an efficacy that the statute changing it does not possess?
It is to the laws, whether part of the common law or
found in the statutes of the State, that we look for the
validity and extent of a contract between persons. They
constitute its obligation. How far this principle is limited by the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States may be illustrated by several cases cognate
to the one at bar.
In Chicago &c. Railway v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, a statute was considered which prohibited any railroad company from limiting *its liability as a common carrier.
Solan sued the company to recover $10,000 damages received by him in Iowa from the derailing, by the company's negligence, of a car in which he was traveling under a written contract, by which the company agreed to
carry him, with cattle, from Rock Valley to Chicago. It
was stipulated in the contract that the company should,
in no event, be liable to the owner or person in charge of
such stock for any injury to his person in any amount, exceeding $500. The company alleged that the stipulation
was part of the consideration for the transportation, that
it related exclusively to interstate commerce, that it was
valid at common law, and that the statute of Iowa was
void and unconstitutional, "as being an attempt to regulate and limit contracts relating to interstate commerce."
The contentions were rejected. The court said (p. 137):
VOL. ccxvlll-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

"Railroad corporations, like all other corporations and
persons, doing business within..the territorial jurisdiction
of a State, are subject to its law. .
. The rules prescribed for the construction of railroads, and for. their
management and operation, designed to protect persons
and property otherwise endangered by their use, are
strictly within the scope of local law. They are not, i4
themselves, regulations of interstate commerce, although
they control, in some degree, the conduct and the liability of those engaged in such commerce. So long as
Congress has not legislated upon the particular subject,
they are rather to be regarded as legislation in aid of such
commerce, and as a rightful exercise of the police power
of the State to regulate the relative rights and- duties of
all persons and corporations within its limits."
It was further said:
"The statute now in question, so far as it concerns liability for injuries happening within, the State of Iowawhich is the only matter presented for decision in this
case-clearly comes within the same principles. It is in
no just sense a regulation of commerce. It does not undertake to impose any tax upon the company, or to restrict the persons or things to be carried, or to regulate
the rate of tolls, fares, or freight. Its whole object and
effect are to make it more sure that railroad companies
shall perform the duties resting upon them by virtue of
their employment as common carriers, to use the utmost
care and diligence in the transportation of passengers and
goods."
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. IIughesj191 U. S. 477, 491,
may be cited as pertinent. It determined the validity
of the common law of Pennsylvania, which prohibited the
common carrier from limiting his liability for his own negligence, though the property was shipped from New York
to a town in Pennsylvania under a bill of lading which
contained a, clause limiting the carrier's liability to a stip-

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ulated value in consideration of the rate paid, the shipper
,hving been offered a bill of lading Without such limitation on payment of a higher rate. The court quoted at
length from the Solan case and concluded as follows:
"We can see no difference in the application of the principle based upon the manner in which the State requires
this degree of care and responsibility, whether enacted
into statute or resulting from the rules of law enforced
in the state courts. The State has a right to promote the
welfare and safety of those within its jurisdiction by requiring common carriers to be responsible to the full
measure of the loss resulting from their negligence, a contract to the contrary notwithstanding."
There is a difference between that case and this-indeed
some contrast. In that case a contract was made in
New York which limited the liability of the carrier, the
limitation being in accordance with the laws of that
State; it was disregarded in Pennsylvania, where the act
of negligence occurred, and the law of the latter enforced.
In this case the contract limiting liability was made in
Michigan, the negligent act occurred in another State,
and yet the limitation, it is insisted, is void. In other
words; in that case the law of the State was disregarded,
in this case it is sought to be enforced. These, however,
are but incidental contrasts, in no way affecting the basic
principle of the cases, which was that the laws passed upon
were exercises of the police power of the States in aid of
interstate commerce, and although incidentally affecting
it did not burden it.
Western Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, is a
strong example of the same distinctions. A statute of
Georgia which required telegraph companies having wires
wholly or partly within the State to receive dispatches,
transmit and deliver them with due diligence under the
penalty of $100, was sustained as a valid exercise of the
power of the State in relation to messages by telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

from points outside of and directed to some point within

the State. It will be observed .that this case in some particulars exhibits a contrast to W. U. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton,
supra, and yet they are entirely reconcilable, having a
common principle. In the latter case the law passed on
clearly transcended the power of the State, because it
directly regulated interstate commerce, as we have already
shown. In the James case the power of the State was exercised in aid of commerce. In the latter case prior cases
were reviewed and the principle determining the validity
of the respective statutes was declared to be whether they
could be "fully carried out and obeyed without in any
manner affecting the conduct of the company with regard
to the performance of its duties in other States." It was
said that a statute of that kind as it would not "unfavorably affect or embarrass" the telegraph company, in
the course of its employment should be held valid "until
Congress speaks upon the subject." And it was observed
that "it is a duty of a telegraph company which receives
a message for transmission, directed to an individual at.
one of its stations, to deliver that message to whom it is
addressed with reasonable diligence and in good faith.
That is a part of its contract, implied by taking the message and receiving payment therefor." And there can be
liability to the sender of the message as well as to him
who is to receive it. The telegraph company in the case
at bar surely owed the obligation to the milling company
to not only transmit the message, but to deliver it. For
the failure of the latter it sought to limit its responsibility, to make the measure of its default not the full and
natural consequence of the breach of its obligation, but
the mei e price of the service, relieving itself, to some extent, even from the performance of its duty,, a duty, we
may say, if performed or omitted, may have consequence
beyond the damage in the particulai instance. This the
statute of the State, expressing the policy of the State,

WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. MILLING CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

declares shall not be. For the reasons stated we think
that this may be done, and that it is not an illegal interference with interstate commerce.
Another contention is made. It is urged that the statute as construed violates the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States, in that it abridges
the privileges and immunities between citizens of the
United States and deprives the telegraph company and
the persons with whom it does business of their liberty
and property without due process of law. The basis of
this contention is the liberty of the telegraph company to
make contracts. It is rather late in the day to make that
contention. The regulation of public service corporations
is too well established, both as to power and the extent of
the power, to call for any discussion. It is true such
power is not unlimited, nor is the police power of the
State, but the cases we have cited demonstrate that the
statute of Michigan is not in excess of such powers.
Lastly, it is said that the statute deprives the telegraph
company and the persons with whom it does business of
the equal protection of the laws. This is sought to be
sustained on the ground that express companies and other
common carriers may by contract limit their liability.
The argument to sustain the contention is in effect that
which we have considered. If an unjust discrimination is
intended to be asserted, Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs, 172
U. S. 557, is an answer.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

dissents.

