UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 510, 511, 512. Argued October 18, 19, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.
Clerks of the Federal courts are not controlled in respect to their fees
and emoluments and accounting therefor by the provisions of the
act of March 3, 1875, c. 144, 18 Stat. 479, or of. Rev. Stat., §§ 5490
and 5497, relating to embezzlement of moneys and property of the
United States by officers and other persons charged with the safekeeping thereof.
There is a separate system with'respect to the fees and emoluments of
clerks, and the amounts which the clerk receives are not moneys or
property of the United States but a fund from which he receives his
compensation and expenses, and as to the surplus for which he must
account to the United States he is not trustee but debtor.
THE facts, which involve the validity of indictments
for embezzlement against a clerk of the District Court
of the United States and the construction of statutes
relating to the fees, salaries and accounts of clerks of
United States courts, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Fowler for the United
States.
Mr. Boyd B. Jone8, with whom Mr, George L. Wilson
waa on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE HUGHES'delivered

the opinion of the court.

The defendant, the clerk of the District Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

United States for the District of Massachusetts, was
indicted for the embezzlement of certain moneys of the
United States. Separate indictments were found as to
moneys received by the clerk in the year 1906, 1907
and 1908, respectively. They are precisely alike, save
for the difference in the years and the amounts specified.
In each case the Circuit 'Court sustained a demurrer as
to three counts of the indictment, the second, third and
fourth, and the judgments on the demurrers are brought
here for review.
Each of these three counts-which are set forth in the
margin '-states that the moneys were a "portion of a
I Second count. And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid,
do further present, that said Frank H. Mason during all of the year
nineteen hundred and eight was, and ever since has been, an officer
of the United States, to wit, clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, and on said first day of February, in the year nineteen hundred and nine, had in his possession
and under his control, to wit, at Boston aforesaid, certain public
moneys of the United States, a particular description whereof is to
said grand jurors unknown, to wit, moneys to the amount and of the
value of three hundred and eighty-seven dollars, which during said
year nineteen hundred and eight had come into his possession and
under his control in the execution of his office as such officer, and
under authority and claim of authority as such officer, and were a portion of a surplus of fees and emoluments of his said office over and
above the compensation and allowances authorized by law to be retained by him for said year nineteen hundred and eight, which said
public moneys said Frank H. Mason, on said first day of February,
in the year nineteen hundred and nine, as such officer, was charged,
by certain. acts of;
Congress, to wit, §§ 823, 828, and 844 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and the act approved June 28, 1902, 32
Statutes at Larke, chapter 1301, and by divers other acts of Congress,
safely to keep; that said Frank H. Mason, on said first day of February, in.
the year nineteen hundred and nine, at Boston aforesaid,
the same public moneys unlawfully did fail safely to keep as required
by said acts of Congress, and, on the contrary, the same then and
there unlawfully did convert to his own use; and that thereby said
Frank H. Mason then and there was guilty of embezzlement of said
public moneys so converted.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

surplus of fees and emoluments of his said office over and.
above the compensation and allowances authorized by
law to be retained by him." The charge of the second
count is that the defendant "the same public moneys
Third count. And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid, do
further present, that said Frank. H. Mason, during all of the year
nineteen hundred and eight was, and ever since has been, an officer
of the United States, to wit, clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, and on said first day of February, in the year nineteen hundred and nine, had in his possession
and under his control, to wit, at Boston aforesaid, certain public
moneys of the United States, a particular .description whereof is to
said grand jurors unknown, to wit, moneys to the amount and of the
value of three hundred and eighty-seven dollars, which during said
year nineteen hundred and eight had come into his possession and
under his control in the execution of his office as such officer, and under
authority and claim of authority as such officer, and were a portion
of a surplus of fees and emoluments of his said office over and above
the compensation and allowances authorized by law to be retained by
him for said year nineteen hundred and eight, which said public
moneys said Frank H. Mason, on said first day of February, in the
year nineteen hundred and nine, as such officer, was charged, by
certain acts of Congress, to wit, §§ 823, 828, and 844 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, and the act approved June 28, 1902,
32 Statutes at Large, chapter 1301, and by divers other acts of Congress, safely to keep; that said Frank H. Mason, on said first day of
February, in the year nineteen hundred and nine, at Boston aforesaid,
the last-mentioned public moneys unlawfully .did fail safely to keep as
required by said acts of Congress, and, on the contrary, the same then
and there unlawfully and fraudulently did convert to his own use;
and that thereby said Frank H. Mason then and there was guilty of
embezzlement of said public inoneys so converted.
Fourth count. And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid,
do further present, that said Frank H. Mason during all of the year
nineteen hundred and eight was, and ever since then has been, an
officer of the United States, to wit, clerk of the District Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, and, on said first day
of February, in the year nineteen hundred and nine, had in his possession and under his control, to wit, at Boston aforesaid, a portion
of the money of the United States, a particular description whereof
is to said grand jurors unknown, to wit, money to the amount and of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

unlawfully did fail safely to keep" as required by acts of
Congress, "and, on the contrary, the same then and there
unlawfully did convert to his own use," and thereby
"was guilty of embezzlement of said public moneys so
converted." The third count is the same as the second,
except that it charges that the defendant converted the
The
-moneys "fraudulently" as well as "unlawfully."
fourth count charges that he should have paid the money,
that is, the alleged surplus, to the United States "in the
manner provided by law," and that he "the same money
unlawfully, wrongfully, and fraudulently did convert to
his. own personal use and embezzle."
To sustain the counts, the assignment of errors refers
to §§ 5490 and 5497 of the Revised Statutes, and to the
act of March 3, 1875, chapter 144 (18 Stat., p. 479).
Section 5490 is as follows:
"Every officer or other person charged by any act of
Congress with the safe-keeping of - the public moneys,
who fails to safely keep the same, without loaning, using,
converting to his own use, depositing in banks, or exchanging for other funds than as specially allowed by law, shall
be guilty, of embezzlement of the money so loaned, used,
converted, deposited, or exchanged; and shall be imprisvalue of three hundred and eighty-seven dollars, which during said

year nineteen hundred and eight, had come into his possession and
under his control in the execution of his office as such officer, and
under authority and claim of authority as such officer, and was a portion of a surplus of fees and emoluments of his said office over and
above the compensation and allowances authorized by law 'to be
retained by him for said year nineteen hundred and 'eight,, which
money, last aforesaid he should, on said first day ofFelbruary, in the

year nineteen hundred and nine, have paid to the United States at
Boston aforesaid in the manner provided by law; and that said Frank
H. Mason, on said first day of February, in the year niieteen hundred
and nine, at Boston aforesaid, the same money unlawfully, wrongfully, and fraudulently did convert to his own personal use and embezzle.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

521

Opinion of the Court.

oned not less than six months nor more than ten years,
and fined in a sum equal to the amount of money so
embezzled."
Section 5497, with the addition made by the amendment of February 3, 1879,. chapter 42 (20 Stat. 280),
provides:
"Every banker, broker, or other person not an authorized depositary of public moneys, . . . who uses,
transfers, converts, appropriates, or applies any portion
of the public money for any purpose not prescribed by
law,
is guilty of an act of embezzlement of the
public money so deposited, loaned, transferred, used,
converted, appropriated, or applied, and shall be punished as prescribed in section fifty-four hundred and
eighty-eight.
"And any officer connected with, or employed in, the
internal-revenue service of the United States, and any
assistant of such officer, who shall embezzle or wrongfully convert to his own use any money or other property
of the United States, and any officer of the United States,
or any assistant of such officer, who shall embezzle or
wrongfully convert to his own use any money or property
which may have come into his possession or under his
control in the execution of such office or employment, or
under color or claim of authority as such officer or assistant, whether the same shall be the money or property of
the United States or of some other person or party, shall,
where the offense is not otherwise punishable by some
statute of the United States, be punished by a fine equal
to the value of the money and property thus embezzled
or converted, or by imprisonment not less than three
months nor more than ten years, or by both such fine
and imprisonment."
By the act of March 3, 1875, chapter 144, § 1 (18 Stat.,
p. 479), "any person who shall embezzle, steal, or purloin any money, property, record, voucher, or valuable

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

thing whatever, of the moneys, goods, chattels, records,
or property of the United States, shall be deemed guilty
of felony."
It is also contended, in argument, that the facts alleged in the indictment bring it within the scope of § 5489
of the Revised Statutes, which provides that if "any public depositary fails safely to keep all moneys deposited"
he shall be deemed guilty of embezzlement; and this,
under § 5493, is to be construed "to apply to all persons
charged with the safe-keeping, transfer, or disbursement
of the public money, whether such persons be indicted
as receivers or depositaries of the same."
What, if any, application these provisions may have
to the clerk of the District Court, with respect to the
fees and emoluments of his office, can be determined only
after a consideration of the history of his relation to these
moneys and of the statutes which specifically define his
rights and duties. Prior to 1841 the clerks were not required to render any account of their fees to the Government. United States v. Hill, 120 U. S,169, at page 176.
The act of March 3, 1791, chapter 22, § 1 (1 Stat. 217),
fixed their compensation for attending court and made
an allowance for traveling. That of May 8, 1792, chapter 36, § 3 (1 Stat. 277), added such fees as were allowed
by the Supreme Court of the State, and authorized the
court to grant a .reasonable compensation for the discharge of duties not performed by the clerks of the state
court and for which the laws of the State made no allowance. But, under these statutes, the fees and emoluments received by the clerks were their own property.
And they were to be recovered "in like manner as the
fees of the officers of the States respectively for like services." 1 Stat. 278, § 6.
In 1841, for the first time, the clerks were limited as
to the amount which they were entitled to retain out
of their fees. The act of March 3, 1841, chapter 35, § 1

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(5 Stat. 427), provided that the fees and emoluments retained by the clerks after the payment "of such necessary
office and other expenses as shall be allowed by the Secretary of the Treasury," within a prescribed limit, should
"not exceed, in any case, four thousand five hundred
dollars; the overplus of fees and emoluments to be paid
into the public Treasury, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, subject to the disposition of Congress." This was
followed by the act of May 18, 1842, chapter 20 (5 Stat.
483), which limited the, amount which the clerk could
retain out of the fees and emoluments of his office "for
his own personal compensation, over and above the necessary expenses of his office, and necessary clerk hire included, also to be audited and allowed by the proper
accounting officers of the Treasury," to the sum of thirtyfive hundred dollars per year. The clerks were required
to make verified returns semi-annually, "embracing all
the fees and emoluments of their respective offices, of
every name and character," and also "all the necessary
office expenses of such officer, together with the vouchers
for the payment of the same." It was also provided that
the officer, with each return, should "pay into the Treasury of the United States, or deposit to the credit of the
Treasurer thereof, as he may be directed by the Secretary of the Treasury, any surplus of the fees and emoluments of his office, which his half-yearly return so made
as aforesaid shall show to exist over and above the compensation and allowances hereinbefore authorized to be
retained and paid by him." Where the return showed
that a surplus might exist the Secretary of the Treasury
was to cause the return to be carefully examined and the
accounts of disbursements to be regularly iudited "and
an account to be opened with such officer in proper books
to be provided for the purpose."
The plain object of this statute was to limit the amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

which the clerk was to retain and to require an' accounting, an audit of expenses, and a payment of the surplus.
Otherwise the established method of administering the
office was not changed. The fees were to be recovered
as theretofore; and to the extent of the amount of the
fixed compensation of the clerk and the necessary expenses of his office, he was entitled to use and to pay as
formerly. The statute suggests no other course. What,
if anything, should be paid into the public treasury at
the end of the half year, when he was to make his return,
depended upon the amount of the fees, the amount of
the expenses and the result of the audit. If his fixed
compensation and his necessary expenses exhausted the
fees there would be nothing to pay. The amount payable was to be determined when the return was made.
This was the state of the law as to the clerks' fees and
emoluments at the time of the passage of the act of August 6,. 1846, chapter 90 (9 Stat. 59, which was entitled
"An Act to provide for the better Organization of the
Treasury and for the Collection, Safe-IKeeping, Transfer
and Disbursement of the public Revenue." It made
careful provision with respect to the duties of the Treasurer, Assistant Treasurers, and of collectors and receivers
of public moneys, and the manner in which these moneys
should be deposited and disbursed. By § 6 of this act
"all public officers of whatsoever character" were required "to keep safely, without loaning, using, depositing in banks, or exchanging for other funds than as allowed by this act, all the public money collected by them,"
until it was ordered "by the proper department or officer
of the Government" to be transferred or paid out. See
Revised Statutes, §3639. By § 16 it was provided that
if any officer "charged by this act, or any other act,
with the safe-keeping, transfer, and disbursement of the
public moneys" should use, loan, deposit or exchange,
except as allowed by the act, "any portion of the public

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

moneys entrusted to him" every such act should be
deemed an embezzlement. 9 Stat. 63.
This last-mentioned section is the source of § 5490 of
the Revised Statutes, which we have quoted above as
one of the statutes relied upon to sustain the counts in
question, and in construing it we may refer to the purpose and scope of the act from which it was derived.
McDonald v. Hovey, 110 U. S. 619; United States v. Le
Bris, 121 U. S. 278; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
263, 302. Section 5493 must be construed in the same
way for a similar reason. And it is clear that the Treasury act of 1846, and the provisions of § 16, did not apply
to the fees and emoluments received by clerks of courts,
and that the clerks were not charged, within the meaning
of that act, with the safe-keeping of these fees and emoluments as public moneys. These were governed by other
rules. They lay outside of the prohibition of § 16 against
loaning, using, converting to his own use, depositing in
banks, and exchanging for other funds, for it was upon
these fees that the clerk depended for his livelihood and
for the payment of the expenses of his office, subject only
to the duty twice a year to make his accounting and to
pay over the surplus if the fees exceeded the total amount
allowed him.
The statute relating to the Treasury was speedily supplemented by the act of March 3, 1849, chapter 110, entitled "An Act requiring all Moneys receivable from
Customs and from all other Sources to be paid immediately into the Treasury, without Abatement or Reduction, and for other Purposes" (9 Stat. 398). This is the
source of § 3617 9f the Revised Statutes, lwoviding that
"the gross amount of all moneys received from whatever
source for the uae of the United States," with the exceptions stated, (not here important,) "shall be paid by the
officer or agent receiving the same into the Treasury, at
as early a day as practicable, without any abatement or

OCTOBER. TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

deduction on account of salary, fees, costs, charges, expenses, or claim of any description whatever." But this,
obviously, had no application to clerks of courts who
continued to receive, hold and use their fees and emoluments subject to the prescribed limitations and the duty
to account.
In 1849 the supervisory power of the Secretary of the
Treasury over the accounts of clerks was transferred to
the Secretary of the Interior (Act of March 3, 1849,
chapter 108, § 4, 9 Stat. 395). In 1853, a statute was
passed regulating the fees of clerks and other officers of
the courts throughout the United States, and the duties
of clerks with respect to their returns and payments were
defined. This established the present fee bill (Act of
February 26, 1853, chapter 80, 10 Stat. 161). In 1870
the supervisory. power passed to the Attorney-General.
Act of June 22, 1870, chapter 150, § 15, 16 Stat. 164.
The provisions of the act of 1853, as modified by the
subsequent legislation, have been incorporated in the
Revised Statutes, §§ 823 to 857, and these continue the
policy of the act of 1842, supra.
Section 823 provides that "the tfollowing and no other
compensation shall be taxed and allowed to
clerks of the circuit and district courts." Section 828
prescribes the clerks' fees. Section 833 provides for semiannual returns to the Attorney-General, as follows:
"Every district attorney, clerk *of a district court,
clerk of a circuit court, and marshal, shall., on the first
days of January and July, in each year, or within thirty
days thereafter, make to the Attorney-General in such
form as he may prescribe, a written return for the half
year ending on said days, respectively, of all the fees and
emoluments of his office, of every name and character,
and of all the necessary expenses of his office, including
necessary clerk-hire, together with the vouchers for the
payment of the same for such last half year. He shall

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

state separately in such returns the fees and emoluments
received or payable under the bankrupt act;
'Said returns shall be verified by the oath of the officer
making them."
Section 839 defines the amount which may be retained
out of the clerk's fees for his compensation over and above
expenses:
"No clerk of a district court, or clerk of a circuit court,
shall be allowed by the Attorney-General, except as provided in the next section, and in section eight hundred
and forty-two to retain of the fees and emoluments of
his office, or, in case both of the said clerkships are held
by the same person, of the fees and emoluments of the
said offices, respectively, for his personal compensation;
over and above his necessary office expenses, including
necessary clerk-hire, to be audited and allowed by the
proper accounting officers of the Treasury, a sum exceeding three thousand five hundred dollars a year for any
such district clerk, or for any such circuit clerk, or exceeding.that rate for any time less than a year."
Sections 844, 845 and 846 contain the following provisions, which are applicable to the payment by clerks
of the surplus shown by their returns and for the examination and audit of their accounts:
"SEc. 844. Every district attorney, clerk, and marshal
shall, at the time of making his half-yearly return to the
Attorney-General, pay into the Treasury, or deposit tothe credit of the Treasurer, as he may be directed by the
Attorney-General, any surplus of the fees and emoluments
of his office, which said return shows to exist over and
above the compensation and allowances authorized by
law to be retained by him.
"SEC. 845. In every case where the return of a district
attorney, clerk, or marshal shows that a surplus may
exist, the Attorney-General shall cause such returns to
be carefully examined, and the accounts bf disbursements

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

to be regularly audited by the proper officer of his Department, and an account to be opened with such officer in
proper books to be provided for that purpose.
"SEc. 846. The accounts of district attorneys, clerks,
marshals, and commissioners of circuit courts shall be
examined and certified by the district judge of the district"for which they are appointed, before they are presented to the accounting officers of the Treasury Department for settlement. They shall then be subject to'
revision upon their merits by said accounting officers,
as in case of other public accounts."
Section 857 brings forward the provision of the act
of May 8, 1792, c. 36 (1 Stat. 278), as to the manner in
which the fees shall be recovered.
Section 5 of the act of February 22, 1875, chapter 95
(18 Stat. 334), provides that if any clerk of any District
or Circuit Court of the United States shall willfully refuse
or neglect to make or to forward any report, certificate,
statement, or other document required by law to be made
or forwarded by him, it shall be the duty of the President
to remove him from office, and he shall not be eligible
to any appointment as clerk or deputy clerk for the period
of two years thereafter. By § 6 of the same act, the willful refusal or neglect to make or to forward the report,
or other documents mentioned in the preceding section,
is made a misdemeanor.
We have also to note the proviso contained in the appropriation act of June 28, 1902, chapter 1301 (32 Stat.
475, 476), as follows:
"That each clerk of the district and circuit courts shall,
on the first days of January and July of each year, or
within tlirty days thereafter, make to the AttorneyGeneral, in such form as he may .prescribe, written returns for the half year ending on said days, respectively,
of all fees and emoluments of his office of every name and.
character, and of all necessary expenses of his office, in,

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cluding necessary clerk hire, together with the vouchers
for the payment of the same for such last half year; and
the word 'emoluments' shall be understood as including
all amounts received in connection with the admission
of attorneys to practice in the court, all amounts received
for services in naturalization proceedings, whether rendered as clerk, as commissioner, or in any other capacity,
and all other amounts received for services in any way
connected with the clerk's office."
There has thus been established a distinct system with
respect to the fees and emoluments of the clerks. Its
features are to be explained by the history of the clerk's
office and the requirements of its convenient administration. It is urged that the fees and emoluments are attached to the office, and are received in an official capacity.
This consideration, however, does not aid the prosecution,
for they were attached to the office before the statute
of 1841, when they belonged to the clerk without any
duty on his part to account for any portion of them. The
fees and emoluments stand in a different category from
other moneys which he may receive by virtue of his office,
as, for example, moneys paid into court. Revised Statutes, §§ 995, 996.
In United States v. Hill, 123 U. S. 681, the action was
on the official bond of the clerk of the District Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts, and
it was asserted that this court had jurisdiction to review
the judgment because the suit was brought for the enforcement of a "revenue law." The court held that § 844
of the Revised Statutes requiring the clerk to pay into
the Treasury any surplus of fees and emoluments shown
by his return was not a revenue law within the meaning
of § 699, and in delivering the opinion of the court Chief
Justice Waite said:
"Certainly it will not be claimed that the clerk of a
District Court of the United States is an 'officer of' the
VOL. ccx-VI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

revenue,' but there is nothing to indicate that the term
revenue has any different signification in this subdivision
of the section from that which it has in the other. The
clerk of a court of the United States collects his taxable,
'compensation,' not as the revenue of the United States,
but as the fees and emoluments of his office, with an obligation on his part to account to the United States for
all he gets over a certain sum which is fixed by law. This
obligation does not grow out of any 'revenue law,' properly so called, but out of a statute governing an officer
of a court of the United StateS."
None of the statutes relating to embezzlement of moneys
or property of the United States, which we have quoted,
affords a basis for the counts in question. There may be an
honest difference of opinion with, regard to the amount, the
payment of which, from the fees collected, may properly
be allowed. Provision has been made for the examination
of the matter and for the ascertainment of the amount
due. Pending such audit there would be no justification
for indicting the clerk as an embezzler upon the allegation that he had in his hands a surplus which he had
converted to his own use. It is not a question of public
moneys which are to be deposited as such and are to be
disbursed in accordance with the Treasury system. A
fixed compensation is to be retained, the expenses of the
office are to be defrayed and the question of the necessity
of the expenses is to be passed upon; and the clerk is not
in default until he refuses or fails to make his return or
to p ty over the surplus shown by his return to exist or
the amount found upon the audit of his accounts to be
payable.
We have riot before us a case where a clerk has refused
or failed to make the return required by statute or to pay
over the surplus shown by his return to exist or established
by the audit. None of the three counts makes that charge.
The second and third- counts charge that the moneys in

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question constituted a portion of the surplus over and

above his authorized allowances, and that he converted
the moneys to his own use. Whether or not this surplus
was shown by his return, or was the result of the audit
contemplated by the statute, is not stated. The fourth
count alleges that the clerk should have paid to the United
States the moneys which it is said were a part of the surplus; but it is not alleged that the duty had arisen upon
the return and accounting required by the statute.
But, for the reasons we have stated, even the duty to
pay the surplus shown by the return or audit is not governed by the statutes, relating to embezzlement, which
have been referred to in support of 'these counts. The
amount with which the clerk is chargeable upon his accounting is not the "public money" or" the money or property of the United States" within the meaning of their
provisions. The fees and emoluments are not received by
the clerk as moneys or property belonging to the 'United
States, but as the amount.allowed to him for his compensation and office expenses under the 'statutes defining his
rights and duties, and with respect to the amount payable
when the return is made the clerk is not trustee but debtor.
Any other view must ignore not only the practical construction which the statutes governing the office have
received, but their clear intent.
The second, third and fourth counts of the indictment
are insufficient, and the judgment of the Circuit Court
is therefore in each case
Affirmed.

