OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

"218 U. S.

tion of the exempted classes was within the legislative
power, subject only to the restriction that it be not arbitrary or oppressive and apply equally to all persons similarly situated. We cannot sak that these exceptions
nullify the law. The reason for them may be that hospitals are very often the subject of state or municipal
regulation and control, and employment in them may be
by boards responsible to public authority under state law
or municipal ordinance. Certainly the conduct of such
institutions may be regulated by such laws or municipal
regulations as might not reach the general practitioner of
medicine. In any event, we cannot say that.these exceptions are so wholly arbitrary and have such slight
relation to the objects to be attained by the law as to require the courts to strike them down as a denial of the
equal protection of the law within the meaning of the
Federal Constitution.
Other questions are made in the record, but they do not
present alleged. denials of rights of a Federal character,
reviewable here. We find no error in the .judgment of
the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and the same is affirmed.

Affirmed.
CITY OF OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 159.

Argued April 19, 1910.-Decidhd May 31, 1910.

In the absence of any provision in the submission, the award of arbitrators or appraisers must be unanimous in matters of private

concern, but a majority can act when the matter submitted is one
which concerns the public.
The fact that public affairs are controlled by majorities is probably the
basis of the above rule although the reason for the distinction therein
contained is not altogether clear.

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

The purchase by a municipality, under authority and direction of the
legislature of the State, of a water supply system, and the determination of the price to be paid for an existing plant are matters of public
concern.

There is a distinction between an arbitration and an appraisat of value
and although arbitrators may not independently take testimony
as to disputed facts appraisers may,. as in this case, properly examine
books and papers relating to the property, in the absence of counsel,
without being guilty of misconduct; and, in the absence of bad
faith, such examination will not vitiate the award.
The legislature of a State may authorize a municipality to purchase
a water system which extends beyond the city limits and to supply
water to adjacent'sections; and so held that the city of Omaha has
such right, and that an appraisal of a water system is not bad, and
hence not binding on the city, because it includes the entire system,
parts.of which are beyond the city limits.
There is a presumption against an intent to dismember a complete
waterworks system, and an ordinance to purchase such a system
will not be construed as requiring such dismemberment, even if the
city had no power to use certain portions of the system.
Cost of duplication, less depreciation,.of a water system, is less than the
commercial value of the system as a going concern; and, even though
the value of the unexpired franchise be expressly excluded from .tb
appraisal, where the parties contemplate the purchase of a complete
water system in operation, a reasonable amount should be included
in the appraisal for the "going value" over the value of the physical
properties.
A transaction of great magnitude such as the purchase by a city of a
water supply system will not be defeated because of minor obstacles;
and if the deed tendered includes a few properties to which title is
not perfect or if there are incumbrances on the properties, the court
can bring the proper parties in and the deed can be modified and interests protected so as to carry out, and not defeat, the transaction.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Lee Webster, with whom Mr. Carl C. Wright
and Mr. Harry E. Burnam were on the brief, for petitioner:

The award is void because not concurred in by the
three appraisers.

The election to purchase contemplated

the valuation to be ascertained by all three appraisers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1'909.
Argument for Petitioner.

218 U. S.

The fact that each party selected an ppraiser, and these
two the third appraiser, does not ,give the right by implication or otherwise, to two appraisers alone to make an
award, and one so made is void. Willis v. Higginbotham,
61 Mississippi, 164; Harvin v. Denton, 87 Mississippi,
238;' Weaver v. Powel, 148 Pa. St. 372; Lowe v. Brown,
22 Ohio St. 463; Stose v. Heissler, 120 Illinois, 433; Shetman v. Cobb, 10 AtI. Rep...591; Memphis & Charleston Ry.
Co. v. Pillow, 56 Tennessee, 248; Jeffersonville Ry. Co. v.
Mounts, 7 Indiana, 669; Patterson v. Leavitt, 4 Connecticuti 50; United Kingdom &c. v. Houston, 1 Q. B. L. R.
567'
The contract of submission will be construed as requiring the award to be concurred in by all the appraisers or
arbitrators, unless by express words or necessary implication it authorizes an award by less than all. Richards v.
Holt, 61 Iowa, 529; Hubbard v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 80
Maine, 39; .Lowe v. Brown, 22 Ohio St. 463; Godfrey v.
Knodle, 44 Ill. App. 638;"Oakley v. Anderson, 93 N. C.
108; Mackey v. Neill, 53 N. C. 214; Anderson v. Farnham,
34 Maine, 161; Owens v. Withee, 3 Texas, 161; Stose v.
Heissler, 120 Illinois, 433; United Kingdom &c. v. Houston,
1 Q. B. L. R. 567.
All must concur in the award to make it valid unless the
parties have agreed that it may be made by less than all.
Unless there is such an agreement clearly and unmistakably expressed the award will be held void when signed
by two and not concurred in by the third. Leavitt v.
Windsor, 54 Fed. Rep. 439; Harryman v. Harryman, 43
Maryland, 140; Byrd v. Harkrider, 108 Indiana, 376;
Willis v. Higginbotham, 61 Mississippi, 164; Weaver v.
Powel et al., 148 Pa. St. 372; Eames v. Eames, 41 Connecticut, 177; Towne v. Jaquith, 6 Massachusetts, 46;
Green v. Miller, 6 Johns. 39; Patterson v. Leavitt, 4 Connecticut, 50; Nettleton v. Gridley, 21 Connecticut, 531;
Jeffersonrile Ry. Co. v. Mounts, 7 Indiana, 669; Smith v.

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

Waldon, 26 Georgia, 249; Lattin v. Gamble, 154 Michigan,
177.
This case is distinguishable from one where the terms
of the submission provide that a third party is an umpire,
to be selected in the event of a disagreement. The submission in case at bar does not make the third man an
umpire. Sherman v. Cobb, 10 Atl. Rep. 591; Lowe v.
Brown, 22 Ohio St. 463; Jeffersonville Ry. Co. v. Mounts,
7 Indiana, 669; Stose v. Heissler, 120 Illinois, 433; Godfrey
v. Knodle, 44 Ill. App. 638.
The case at bar 'is not a public appraisement which
would justify an award by a majority of the appraisers.
Such rule only prevails in cases of international controversies, or where the appraisers are appointed under
a public law of the State and are acting in a public or
quasi-judicial capacity.
Contracts between cities and water and gas companies
are business contracts between private individuals.
Omalha Water Co. v. City of Omaha, 147 Fed. Rep. 1;
Wagner v. City of Rock Island, 146 Illinois, 139; Illinois
Trust Co. v. Arkansas City, 76 Fed. Rep. 27,1; Appeal of
Brum, 12 Atl. Rep. 855; Safety Ins. Wire & Cable Co. v.
Mayor, 66 Fed. Rep. 140; Cincinnativ. Cameron, 33 Ohio
St. 336.
The cases cited by the Court of Appeals to effect that
this appraisement was a matter of public concern do not
.support that view.
A public appraisement is where the appraisers or
arbitrators are appointed under a state or national law.
and act as quasi-public officers in the performance of a
public duty. Grindley v7 Barker, 1 Bos. & Pull. 229;
King v. Beetson, 3 Term. 529; Withnell v. Gartham,:6
Tennessee, 388; Ex parte Rogers, 7 Cow. 525; Sinclair v.
Jackson, 8 Cow. 543; Young v. Buckingham, 5 Ohio, 485;
State v. McMillan, 29 S. E. Rep. 540; S. C., 52 S. C. 60;
Carroll v. Alsup, 107 Tennessee, 271; Cortis v. Kent Water

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Petitioner.

218 U. S.

Works, 7 B. & C. 314; Cooley v. O'Connor, 12 Wall. 391;
The King v. Whitaker, 9 Barn. & Cress. 648; People v.
Walker, 23 Barb. 304; People v. Coghill, 47 California,
361; Hewitt v. Craig, 5 S. W. Rep. 280; S. C., 9 Ky. Law
Rep. 232.
The award is void because after the appraisers concfuded the formal hearing, they privately and against the
protest of the city, received and secretly examined, ex
porte, the books of the water company, under an understanding that the city should not be permitted to see or
know the contents of said books. ' The question to be
considered involves a moral principle. The incident complained of did not give the city a "square deal." Such
an examination was misconduct and made the award
void. Catlett v. Dougherty, 114 Illinois, 568; Emery v.
Owings, 7 Gill. 448; Bassett v. Harkness, 9 N. H. 164;
Jenkins v. Liston, 13 Gratt. 535; Rand v. Peel, 74 Missisippi, 305; National Bank v. Darragh,30 Hun, 29; Warren
v. Tinsley, 53 Fed. Rep. 689; Cameron v. Castleberry, 29
Georgia, 495; Walker v. Frobisher, 6 Ves. 69; Strong v.
Strong, 9 Cush. 560; Hewitt v. Reed City, 124 Michigan,
6; Vessel Owners' Towing Co. v. Taylor, 126 Illinois, 250;
Elmendorf v. Harris, 23 Wend. 638; Dobson v. Groves, 9
Q. B. 637; Western Female Seminary v. Blair, 1 Disney,
370; In re Plews and Middleton, 6 Q. B. 845; In re Tidswell,
33 Beav. 213; Passmore v. Pettit, 4 Dall. 270; Wood v.
Helme, 14 R. I. 325; Jackson v. Roane, 90 Georgia, 669;
Wilkins v. Van Winkle, 78 Georgia, 557; Rosenau v. Legg,
82 Alabama, 568; Knowlton v. Mickles, 29 Barb. 465;
Sisk v. Gary, 27 Maryland, 401; .Clelandv. Iledley, 5 R. I.
163; Latlin v. Gamble, 154 Michigan, 177-181; Lutz v.
Linthicum, 8 Pet. 165; McFarlandv. Mathis, 10 Arkansas,
560; Eastern Counties Ry. Co. v. Eastern Union Ry. Co.,
68 Eng. Ch. 609.
These cases also. hold that the court will not permit an
inquiry into the ex parte evidence, but will set aside the

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U.S.

Argument for Petitioner.

award, and it was not necessary for the city to introduce
evidence that the arbitrators were improperly influenced
by the ex parte evidence, but the award will be held to be
void, even though it appears that the appraisers were
respectable gentlemen) or did not consider the ex parte

evidence, or were not influenced thereby.
An arbitrator who takes instructions from one side is in.

law acting corruptly. Strong v. Strong, 9 Cush. 560;
Western Female Seminary V. Blair, 1 Disney, 370.
The general rule is that valuers of property, although
called appraisers, or referees, or commissioners, in receiving evidence and in making awards,. are governed
by the law relating to arbitration. Continental Ins. Co.
v. Garrett, 125 Fed. Rep. 589; Christiansonv. Norwich Ins.
Co., 84 Minnesota, 526; Mason v. Fire Ins. Assn., 122
N. W. Rep. 423; Hills v. Home Ins. Co., 129 Massachusetts, 345; Washburn v. White, 197 Massachusetts,
540; Insurance Co. v. Hegewald, 161 Indiana, 631; Manf.
Builders' Ins. Co. v. Mullen, 48 Nebraska, 620; Sherman
v., Cobb, 15 R. I. 570; Lowe'v. Brown, 22 Ohio St. 463;
Godfrey v. Knodle, 44 Ill. App. 638; Stose v. Heissler, 120
Illinois, 433; Emery v. Owings, 7' Gill. 448; Redner v.
N. Y. Fire Ins. Co., 92 Minnesota, 306; Earle v. Johnson,
84 N. W. Rep, 332; Hart v. Kennedy, 47 N. J. Eq.
51.
The award is void because the appraisers exceeded their
authority in appraising and including in the award the
sum of $562,712.45 for going value., Knoxtille v. Water
Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 212 U. S.
19, 52.
The award includes property the-city is without autho'rity to purchase, and used only to supply other towns.

A municipality acts under delegated power and can
Oxercise only such rights and powers as are expressly conferred or necessarily implied from express grants; and all

grants of power aire to be strictly construed. Citizens' St,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Petitioner.

218 U. S.

Ry. Co. v. Detroit Ry. Co., 171 U. S. 48, 53; City of Fort
Scott v. Eads Brokerage Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 51, 54; State
v. Iey, 42 Nebraska, 189.
Cities have no power to levy taxes for the purpose of
maintaining or to own or construct waterworks for the
benefit of adjoining municipalities. Sutherland-Innes Co.
v." Village of Evart, 86 Fed. Rep. 597; Ottawa v. Carey,
108 U. S. 121; Quincy v. City of Boston, 148 Massachusetts, 389; Arnold v. Pawtucket, 21 R. I. 15; Duluth v.
Gas & Water Co., 45 Minnesota, 210; Farwell v. City of
Seattle, 43 Washington, 141; Town of Bristol v. Water
Works, 23 R. I. 274.
The only exception is where there is express statutory
authority to that end. West Hartford v. Water Commissioners, 68 Connecticut, 323; Pittsburg v. Brace, 158
Pa. St. 174.
A decree of specific performance should not be entered.
Such a decree will not be entered where the purchaser
would only obtain an equitable title. Wesley v. Eells, 177
U. S. 37; City of Tiffin v. Shawhan, 43 Ohio St. 178; Guild
v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry., 57 Kansas, 70. A
court of equity will not decree a specific performance
except where the right is clear. Willard v. Tayloe, 8
Wall. 557, 565; Hennessy v. Woolworth, 128 U. S. 438, 442;
McCabe v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 550, 553; Hildreth v. Duff,
148 Fed. Rep. 676.
Although the proof might not authorize the court to
set aside the award, it may be sufficient for a court of
equity to refuse specific performance. Snoop v. Burnside,
78 Kansas, 871, 876; Banaghan v. Malaney, 200 Massachusetts, 46.
The award fixes the value of the property as of the date
of the award, while the law requires the valuation to be
fixed as of the date of the election to purchase. Bristol v.
Bristol, 25 R. I. 189; Water Co. v. Cherryvale, 65 Kansas,
21q; Caldwell v. Frazier, 65 Kansas, 24; Water Co. v.

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Rockport, 161 Massachusetts, 279; C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co.
v. Stewart, 19 Fed. Rep. 5.
Mr. Howard Mansfield and Mr. R. S. Hall, with whom
Mr. Herbert C. Lakin was on the brief, for respondent:
There was no misconduct, improper procedure, concealment or secrecy on the part of the board of appraisers
in the examination of the water company's books, nor
were the books offered in evidence in any technical sense.
The company was entirely within its rights in restricting
the examination of its books to the sole purpose of the
appraisal.
The board of appraisers was not subject to the rules-. f
procedure governing arbitrations. Lutz v. Linthicum, z
Pet. 165; Bliss v. Supervisors, 15 N. Y. Supp. 748; 1
Words and Phrases, 487, 490; Garr v. Gomez, 9 Wend.
649, 651; Hall v. Norwalk Fire Ins. Co., 57 Connecticut,:'
105; ContinentalIns. Co. v. Garrett, 125 Fed. Rep. 589.
The subject of the present review is not an arbitration
but an appraisal; and the determination of the matter
submitted to the board of appraisers is not an award, but
an appraisement.
The vital distinction between an arbitration and an
appraisal has been clearly and uniformly recognized from
remote time by the courts. Leeds v. Burrows, 12 East, 1;
Lee v. Hemingway, 3 Nev. & M. 860, note to Parkes v.
Smith, 15 Q. B. 305; Collins v. Collins, 26 Beav. 306;
Eads v. Williams, 4 De Gex, MacN. & G. 674; Bottomley
v. Ambler, 32 L. T. N. S. 545; Fry on Specific Performance,
2d ed., § 341; Garr v. Gomez, 9 Wend. 649; Garrard v.
Macey, 10 Missouri, 161; Curry v. Lackey, 35 Missouri,
389 (1858); Kelly v. Crawford, 5 Wall. 785; G. & C. Sts.
Ry. Co. v. Moore, 64 Pa. St. 79; Palmer v. Clark, 106
Massachusetts, 373; N. E. Trust Co. v. Abbott, 162 Massachusptts, 148; Norton v. Gale, 95 Illinois, 533; Stose v.
Heissler, 120 Illinois, 433;_James v. Schroeder, 61 Michi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Respondent

218 U. S.

gan, 28; Noble v. Grandin, 125 Michigan, 383; M. E.
Church v. Seitz, 74 California, 287; Guild v. Railroad Co.,
57 Kansas, 70; Wurster v. Armfield, 175 N. Y. 256; Norwich
Gas & El. Co. v. Norwich, 76 Connecticut, 565; Earle v.
Johnson, 81 Minnesota, 472, distinguished; Colombia v.
Cauca Co., 190 U. S. 524.
The three engineers were, from the outset, regarded by
the counsel for both parties, as constituting a board of
appraisers and not a board of arbitrators, and by agreement of both parties were given the widest latitude of
procedure.
The objection as to the examination of the books comes
too late. Drew v. Drew, 33 Eng. Law & Eq. 9.
The appraisement cannot be set aside, except on positive proof of corruption, partiality or actual misconduct.
Republic of Colombia v. Cauca Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 337;
Rrush v. Fisher, 17 Michigan, 469.
The terms of the contract reserving to the city of
Omaha the right to purchase the waterworks necessarily
authorized a valuation by a majority of the board of
appraisers.
The distinction between appraisements in private and
in public concerns is obvious. Colombia v. Cauca Co.,
190 U. S. 528. Theacquisition by a city of a system of
waterworks is a matter of public, concern. Long Island
Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Wagner v.
Rockland, 146 Illinois, 139; Minneapolis Mill Co. v. Water
Commissioners, 56 Minnesota, 485. See also Winters V.
Duluth, 82 Minnesota, 127; Water Co. v. Eau Clair, 132
Wisconsin, 411; De Portibus Maris, 1 Harg., Law Tracts,
78; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113. See also Budd v.
New York, 143 U. S. 517; Slingerland v. Newark, 54
N. J. L. 62; Kennebec Water District v. Waterville, 96
Maine, 234.
Public policy requires tmat in. a matter of public con. cern the determination n a majority of the appraisers,

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

where all meet to consider the matter, must be taken as
the act of the whole. Grindley v. Barker, 1 Bos. & Pul.
229; McCoy v. Curtice, 9 Wend. 17; Cowan v. Murch, 97
Tennessee, 590, 598; Carroll v. Alsup, 107 Tennessee, 257,
271; Washington v. Nichols, 52 N. Y. 478; Green v. Miller,
6 J. R. 39; Ex parte Rogers, 7 Cow. 526, 529; Young v.
Buckingham, 5 Ohio, 485; Colombia v. Cauca Co., 190
U. S. 524; Gas Co. v. Wheeling, 8 W. Va. 320; St. Paul Gas
Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142; Light Co. v. Montgomery, 87 Alabama, 245.
None of ,the decisions cited by counsel for the city
conflicts with the rule. that unanimity is not necessary in
matters of public concern. See Pattersonv. Leavitt, 4 Connecticut, 50; Harryman v. Harryman, 43 Maryland, 140;
Lowe v. Brown, 22 Ohio St. 463; Hubbard v. Great Falls
Mfg. Co., 80 Maine, 89; Weaver v. Powell, 148 Pa. St. 372;
Cortis v. Kent Water Works Co., 7 B. C. 314.
The going va4ue of the company's system of waterworks, as distinguished from the unexpired franchise, is
an integral and essential element of the appraised valuation of the property. Water Works Co. v. Kansas City,
62 Fed. Rep. 853; Gloucester Water Supply Co. v. Gloucester, 179 Massachusetts, 365;.Gas & Electric Co. v. Norwich,
76 Connecticut, 565; Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1;
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, distinguished.
The valuation by the board of appraisers was properly made as far as practicable as of the date of their report.
By the terms of the ordinance of election the scope of
the city's purchase was nothing, less than the entire system of waterworks owned and operated by the Omaha
Water Company, wherever located.
By the action of the parties, construing the ordinance
with a view to the powers conferred by the statute, the
scope of the contemplated purchase became irrevocably

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Respondent.

218 U. S.

fixed. It cannot now be altered. Knox County v. National Bank, 147 U. S. 91; Manhattan Life Ins. Co. v.
Wright, 126 Fed. Rep. 82. See also District of Columbia
v. Gallaher, 124 U. S. 505, 510; Insurance Co. v. Dutcher,
95 U. S. 269, 273.
The city is equitably estopped from now claiming that
it has never been its purpose to acquire the entire system
of the complainant. Reynolds v. Adden, 136 U. S. 348;
Hackett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86, 96; County of Randolph
v. Post, 93 U. S. 502, 513; Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24.
How. 287, 300; Sullivan Timber Co. v. Mobile, 110 Fed.
Rep. 186, 197; Brooks v. Laurent, 98 Fed. Rep. 647;
Garber v. Doersom, 117 Pa. St. 162; Munroe v. Danbury, 24 Connecticut, 199; Tarr v. Mayor of Crete, 32
Nebraska, 568; Water Co. v. Omaha, 156 Fed. Rep.
922.
An equitable estoppel may arise in such a case, applicable to a municipal corporation as well as to any other
corporation or to an individual. Water Co. v. City of
Aspen, 146 Fed. Rep. 8; Indianapolis v. Consumers' Gas
Trust Co., 144 Fed. Rep. 640; Fayetteville v. Water, L. &
P. Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 400; cases supra and Peabody v.
Westerly Water Works, 20 R. I. 176.
None of the cases cited by counsel for the city is in
conflict with this decision.
Upon the exercise of the option the obligation of the
defendant to complete the purchase became absolute and
the question cannot be raised as to power to purchase.
Castle Creek Water Co. v. City of Aspeti, 146 Fed. Rep. 8;
Water Co. v. Braintree, 146 Massachusetts, 482; Fayetteville v. Water, Light & Power Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 400;
Ralls County Court v. United States, 105 U. S. 733; Sala v.
New Orleans, 2 Woods, 188.
No valid equitable considerations appear against a
decree of specific performance being entered as directed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.

OMAHA v. OMAHAWATER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill seeking the specific performance by the
city of Omaha of a contract for the purchase and sale of
the system of waterworks owned by the appellee company. The waterworks plant in question was constructed
in pursuance of legislative authority and municipal ordinance, which need not be considered, for neither party
questions the sufficiency of either. The fourteenth sectiori of the ordinance of 1880, under which the.waterworks
were constructed by the predecessor of the appellee, wa§
in these words:
"The city of Omaha shall have the right at any time
after the expiration of twenty years to purchase the said
waterworks at an appraised valuation, which shall be ascertained by the estimate of three engineers, one to be
selected by the city council, one by the waterworks company and these two to select the third: Provided, That
nothing shall -be paid for the unexpired franchise of said
company."
In 1903 the city elected to exercise this option and a
board of appraisers was appointed, one by each of the
parties and a third by the two so selected. This board
of appraisers organized and proceeded to take evidence,
and, after considering the matter for about three years,
made an appraisement, fixing the value of the system at
$6,263,295.49. The appraiser appointed by the city did
not concur. The city rejected the award. Whereupon
the company filed this bill, which, upon final hearing,
was dismissed upon the sole ground of misconduct of the
appraisers, other objections not being passed upon. Upon
appeal this decree was reversed and the cause remanded
for a decree in pursuance of the opinion of the appellate
court. 162 Fed Rep. 232.
The case is here upon a writ of certiorari allowed at a
forme~term.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Three major objections have been urged against the
appraisement. First, that it wAs not concurred in by all;
second, that the appraisers heard certain evidene without notice or giving the city an opportunity to hear or
rebut; and, third, that the property valued includes a.
distributing system beyond the corporate limits of Omaha,
by which certain suburban villages are supplied, and that
to that extent the city made no contract to buy, and if it
did, had no power to do so.
These in their order:
1. The only matter to be determined was the value of
the waterworks system, which had long served the public.
Its construction had been authorized by legislative, enactment under which the municipal ordinance was passed.
One section of this ordinance provided that the city at
the end of twenty years might, at its election, purchase
the works at a value to be determined by appraisers.. The
contention is that the refusal of one .of the appraisers to
concur in the valuation fixed by the majority defeated
the appraisal. The matter in question was in no proper
sense an arbitration. The contract was in all of its terms
agreed upon. One party was to sell and the other to buy
at a valuation determined by the board of appraisers, and
unanimity was not stipulated for. Unanimity was hardly
to be expected in a board made up as this was. When a
matter of purely private concern is submitted to the determination of either arbitrators or appraisers the rule
seems to be that there must be unanimity of conclusion
by such board, unless otherwise indicated by the terms of
the submission. Hobson v. M'Arthilr, 16 Pet. 182, 192;
Green v. Miller, 6 Johns. 39; Gas Company v. Wheeling,
however, otherwise
8 W. Va.320, 351 et seq.. The rule is,
when the submission is one which concerns the public.
In such submissions, whether it be the arbitration of a
difference or the- ascertainment of a value, a majority
may act, unless otherwise indicated by the agreement for

OMAIIA v. OMAIIA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

submission. Why this distinction should exist is not altogether clear. In both instances the persons to whom the
submission is made are acting under a power and'must
stay within it. The reason probably lies in the fact that
public affairs are controlled by majorities, and, by analogy,
a majority should control when the submission is a matter
which concerns the public. But whatever the reason, so
are the authorities. Colombia v. Cauca Co., 190 U. S.
524; The People ex rel. v. Nichols, 52 N. Y. 478; Gas.Company v. Wheeling, 8 W. Va. 320; Grindley y. Barker, 1
Bos. & Pul. 229.
The construction and acquisition of a system of water
supply and distribution was a public municipal function.
The Nebraska legislature, in 1903, went so far as to require municipal ownership of a water supply system in
the city of Omaha, and that this should be accomplished
either by construction or by 'the purchase of the existing
system. The city, in compliance with and in the exercise of the power conferred when the existing plant was
constructed, elected to purchdse the existing system"under
the ordinance of 1880 and the power therein reserved.
That in such circumstances the determination of the price
to be paid by a submission was a matter -of public concern, is too clear for argument. The cases cited above
cover the point. The appraisal was not therefore defeated
because not concurred in by all.
The distinction suggested by counsel that the authority
for the submission must come from the public, if there
be anything of substance in it, does not prevent the operation of the rule here, for the purchase upon a valuation
settled by appraisers was in the ordinance of the city, in
pursuance of legislative authority, and, in a very true
sense, was an authoity to submit to appraisers which
came from the-public.
2. The next objection is that the appraiser heard evidence in the absence of the city and without opportunity
VOL. CC.XV\'1 ,3)

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

21S U. S

to reply, and that this was such misconduct as to vitiate
the valuation. As already hinted, this was not a board
of arbitrators. Al arbitration implies a difference, a dispute, and involves ordinarily a hearing and all thereby
implied. The right to notice of hearings, to produce
evidence and cross-examine that produced is implied when
the matter to be decided is one of dispute and difference.
But when, as here, the parties had agreed that one should
sell and the other buy a specific thing, and the price should
be a valuation fixed by persons agreed upon, it cannot be
said that there was any dispute or difference. Such an
arrangement precludes or prevents difference, and is not
intended to settle any which has arisen. This seems to
be the distinction between an arbitration and an appraisement, though the first terli is often used when the other
is more appropriate.
Counsel have cited and pressed upon us the case of
Continental Insurance Co. v. Garrett, 125 Fed. Rep. 589,
as a case where an 9,ppraisement of a fire loss was set aside
because evidence was heard in the absence of the parties.
But that was a case where the full amount of the insurance
was claimed as the extent of the loss. This was denied.
It was therefore a plain case of the submission of a dispute
or difference which had to be adjusted. The rule applicable to a judicial proceeding therefore applied. It was in
fact an arbitration, though the arbitrators were called
appraisers. The dispute concerned the thing which had
been destroyed, the value of something which was not to
be inspected and valued from observation because it was
not in existence. Evidence wa, therefore essential to
show what had been destroyed as well as its value. The
case is wholly unlike the one here presented.
In Collins v. Collins, 26 Beav. 306, where there was a
contract for the sale of a brewery at a price to be fixed
by persons called arbitrators, one chosen by each party
and a third by these two, before entering upon valua-

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of theCourt.

tion; it was ruled that they were not arbitrators but appraisers, and the Master of the Rolls, Sir John Romilly,
said:
"But I do not think that in this particular case the
fixing of the price of the property is an arbitration, in the
proper sense of the -term. An arbitration is a reference
to the decision of one or more persons, either with or without an umpire, of some matter or matters in difference
between the parties. It is very true that in one sense it
must be implied that although there is no existing difference, still that a difference may arise between the parties;
yet I think the distinction between an existing difference
and one which may arise is a material one, and one which
has been properly relied upon in the case. If nothing
has been said respecting the price by the vendor and purchaser between themselves, it can hardly be said that
there is any difference between them. It might be, that
if the purchaser knew the price required by the seller,
there would be no difference, and that he would be willing to give it. It may well be, that if the vendor knew
the price which the purchaser would give, there would be
no difference, and that he would accept it. It may well
be, that the decision of a particular valuer appointed
might fix the price and might be equally satisfactory to
both; so that it can hardly be said that there is a difference
between them. Undoubtedly, as a general rule, the seller
wants to get the highest price for his property, and the
purchaser wishes to give the lowest, and in that sense it
may be said that an expected difference between the parties is to be implied in every case, but unless a difference
has actually arisen, it does not appear to me to be. an
'arbitration.' Undoubtedly, if two persons enter into an
arrangement for the sale of any particular property, and
try to settle the terms, but cannot agree, and after dispute and discussion respecting the price, they say, 'we
will refer this question of price to A. B., he shall settle it,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 tT. S.

and thereupon they agree that the matter shall be referred
to his arbitration, that would appear to be an 'arbitration,'
in the proper sense of the term, and within the meaning
of the act; but if they agree to a price to be fixed by another, that does not appear to me to be an arbitration."
In the present case there was not only no antecedent
disagreement as to price, but the ordinance under which
the purchase was to be made provided that the property
was to pass "at an appraised valuation, which shall be
ascertained by the estimate of three engineers," etc. The
board was accordingly made up of such engineers selected
because they were experts of experience in the service
they were expected to perform. That it was the understanding that these engineers were to examine and estimate
the value and acquaint themselves with the condition
and extent of the property in question in their own way
and not according to the procedure required in a judicial
proceeding, is made clear by the avowals made by the
counsel representing the parties at the beginning of the
valuation. Thug the attorney for the city, addressing
the valuers, said:
"As to the matter of the procedure to be adopted by
your board, as to the method of arriving at the amount
of property owned by the water company, and the determina,'on of its value, the city of Omaha suggests that this
board, having been appointed as experts in regard to the
value of such property, ought to make a personal investigation as to the amount and extent of the property of the
water company, together with its condition, and determine
therefrom its value. As to the method of arriving at the
amount and condition of the property of the water company, -the city of Omaha suggests that this board may
arrive at such facts by any method or means deemed advisable by it, but that, if the board shall determine to
take proof and testimony before it, that it should go no
further than to the question of the amount and condition

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER 00.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the property, and that said testimony should not be
conclusive upon this board, but simply for its advice and
information in the matter. It is not the opinion of the
city of Omaha that it would be proper or necessary to
call expert witnesses as to the value, since the members
of the board have been selected as experts, (to) whose
judgment the question of value must be submitted upon
the examination of the property."
Counsel for the water company appear to have fully
concurred in this view of the function of the board.
That the great bulk of the evidence was heard or submitted in the presence of counsel representing both sides
is true. This course did not, however, preclude them from
enlightening their judgment as experts by either personal
inspection or by informing themselves in any other way
of the value of the plant in question without calling in
counsel if they desired further information. The thing
complained of is that the valuers called upon the company
for their books and that they had these books gone over
by an expert auditor of their own selection. This, counsel
say, was done without notice to the city and after the
close of the hearings. But it Was not done secretly, for
the city learned of it and asked an opportunity to be
present when the books were submitted. What information was derived from the books is not shown. We have
only the lone fact that the appraisers of their own motion
asked an opportunity to look over and have audited the
company's books, and that the company granted the
privilege as "confidehtial information" for the use of the
appraisers only. Neither are counsel justified in saying
that the books were called for after the matter was in the
hands of the appraisers for conclusion. When the parties had submitted their maps, plats, blue prints and such
other evidence throwing light upon the value of the plant,
as they desired, and had been heard in argument and upon
brief, the chairman of the board said in substance to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

counsel that much time would be necessary to reach a
conclusion; that the real work of valuation had been but
begun, and that "much more information must be sought
by this board."
There is not the slightest evidence in the record of
partiality, bad motive or misconduct affecting the action
of the board. Its members appear to have been gentlemen of high character professionally and otherwise, and
if their- conclusion is to be set aside it must be because
they deemed it within their power to have a confidential
examination made of the books of the company to assist
them in arriving at a valuation.
If this was a technical arbitration of a matter of dispute or difference between the parties, to be heard and
decided upon evidence submitted, the examination of the
company's books without the consent of the city or the
presence of its representatives would be such misconduct
as would vitiate the award. In such a matter the rules
relating to judicial inquiry would apply. Continental Insurance Co. v. Garrett, 125 :Fed. Rep. 589, and cases cited.'
But in an appraisement, .such Sas that here involv4d, the
strict rules relating to arbitration and awards do not apply, and the appraisers were not rigidly required to confine themselves either to matters within their own knowledge or those submitted to them formally in the presence
of the parties; but might reject, if they saw fit, evidence
so submitted, and inform themselves from any other
source, as experts who were at last to act upon their own
judgment. Kelley v. Crawford, 5 Wall. 785, 790; Railway
Co. v. Moore, 64 Pa. St. 79, 91; Palmerv. Clark, 106 Massachusetts, 373, 389; M. E. Church v. Seitz, 74 California,
287; Curry v. Lackey, 35 Missouri, 394.
In the absence of any evidence of 'actual bad faith we
do not hesitate about agreeing with the Circuit ,Court of
Appeals in the conclusion that there was no such misconduct as to vitiate the valuation.

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

3. The next contention is that the valuation includes
property not within the submission, and which the city
did not have power to buy. The point from which the
water was taken by the existing water plant was beyond
the corporate limits of Omaha. In the immediate suburbs
of the city there are several villages outside the corporate
limits. The distributing system of the Omaha Water
Company has, from time to time, been extended to these
outlying suburban towns. It is now said that the appraisers have valued these outlying distributing systems
as a part of the plant to be acquired by the city under the
ordinance electing to purchase.
As to the power of the city: The charter, § 27, Laws of
Nebraska 1897, page 99, provided for the construction
and maintenance of waterworks "either within or without the corporate limits of the city." This is said to only
allow the location of pumping works or source of supply
outside the city, The city does not therefore object to
valuing the supply station and mains extending to the
city as within the contemplated purchase. But it is said
that the authority is limited to a distributing system
wholly within the corporate limits. That the primary
purpose was to supply the people of Omaha with water
for public and private purposes is clear. But does that
forbid that those who live outside may not be also supplied from the main plant, and', if necessary, by such extensions, not inconsistent with the primary object, as may
prove desirable as suburbs grow up around the city?
These powers were supplemented by the charter of
1897. Under § 27 of that charter it was given, among
other things, "power to appropriate any waterworks system, plant or property already constructed, to supply
the city and the inhabitants thereof with water, or any
part thereof, whether lying within said city or in part
without the city and within ten miles from the corporate
limits of such city, including all real estate, buildings,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

machinery, pipes, mains, hydrants, basins, reservoirs and
all appurtenances reasonably necessary thereto, and a
part of or connected with said system, plart or pr9perty,
and franchises to own and operate the same, if any."
This was again supplemented by the act of 1903, chapter 12, providing a method of procedure for acquiring municipal water plants and the creation of a water board for
their control and management, being the act under which
the city was required to take steps to acquire its own water
plant system. Again, by the act of 1907, chapter 12a, it
is, among other things, provided by § 242, that the water
board may contract with any municipality adjacent to
said city to supply such municipality with water for
domestic, mechanical, public or fire purposes, a provision
plainly contemplating just such a condition as would ensue if the city should acquire the existing system of works
with a distributing system extending to villages adjacent.
The review of the legislation touching the power of the
city, and the conclusion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
from that legislation, that the city had the power to acquire the system as it existed, and has the power to operate
so much of it as is intended to supply the suburban towns
adjacent which may be acquired, is full and satisfactory,
and meets our approval.
We are also satisfied with the conclusion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals that the acquisition of the system as it
existed at the time the city made its election to purchase
was within the contemplation of both the city and the
water company, and that the valuation of the system as
an entirety was the matter Which the appraisers were required to do. What we shall say upon this point will
support our conclusion as to the power of the city, for the
legislation upon that matter must be read in the light ol'
the subject-matter and of all the known local conditims.
The most weighty fact in this connection is,' that tho
system was one single system, having a common source

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of supply and common main connections therewith.. Its
dismemberment is not to be thought of unless it is clear
that the ordinance exercising the option is so plainly
limited to the purchase of only so much of the distributing system as lay wholly within the corporate limits as to
admit of no. other meaning. A presumption against dismemberment is not overthrown even if the city had no
power to sell water to people or municipalities beyond its
limits. If these outside distributing pipes could not be
lawfully used by the city for the purpose for which the
water company had used them, it does not follow that a
contract to buy would be thereby any the less a contract
to buy the plant as a unitary system. Aside from contract obligation which may pass with the plant, the city
might cut off the supply of water to such outlying environs, if it saw fit, whether it could or could not legally
supply water through the distributing pipes which had
theretofore reached them. Certain it is that as the several
towns adjacent had no source of supply, no pumping
station of their own, disintegration would leave the water
company with no means of supplying them with water.
The distributing pipes under ground would, separated
from the ownership of the pumping station,. reservoir,
filling, or settling basins, necessarily lose much of the
value which attached to them as a part of a. going
plant.
The reservation in. the ordinance under which the works
were constructed should be read and interpreted in the
light of the almost certain extension of the plant as the
expansion and growth of the city might demand. The
city, at the time the ordinance was passed, had some
thirty thousand people. When the election to buy the
plant, was made it had, approximately, four times as
many. As is usual in respect of growing cities, there had
grown up around it groups of population, which, in some
cases, expanded into semi-dependent municipalities. Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinibn of the C(urt.

.218 U. S.

nected by continuous streets and car lines, they made
one large community, and constituted greater Omaha.
The water company, as was obviously expected from the
beginning, expanded with Omaha and met the public
necessities by including these outside populations within
its distributing system.
The appraisers in making their estimate of valuation
included $562,712.45 for the "going value." This separation of an element contributing to the value of each
tangible part was done because required to be done under
an order made in the Circuit Court in a suit in which the
water board of the city of Omaha was complainant and
the members of the board of appraisers and the water
company were defendants. The object of that suit was
to instruct the appraisers in respect to the mode and manner in which they should proceed. An order resulted
Which required the board to report the separate elements
making up the aggregate value of the plant.
The option to purchase excluded any value on account
of unexpired franchise; but it did not limit the value to
the bare bones of the plant, its physical properties, such
as its lands, its machinery, its water pipes or settling
reservoirs, nor to what it would take to reproduce each
of its physical features. The value in equity and justice
must include whatever is contributed by the fact of the
connection of the items making a completq and operating
plant. The difference between a dead plant and a live
one is a real value, and is independent of any franchise
to go on, or any mere good will as between such a plant
and its customers. That kind of good will, as suggested
in Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, is of little
or no commercial value when the business is, as here, a
natural monopoly, with which the customer must deal,
whether he will or no. That there is a difference between
even the cost of duplication less depreciation, of the
,elements making up the water company plant, and the

OMAHA v. OMAHA WATER CO.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commercial value of the business as a going concern, is
evident. Such an allowance was upheld in National Waterworks v. Kansas City, 62 Fed. Rep. 853, where the
opinion was by Mr. Justice Brewer. We can add nothing
to the reasoning of the learned Justice, and shall not try
to. That case has been approved and followed in Gloucester Water Co. v. Gloucester, 179 Massachusetts, 365, and
Norwich Gas Co. v. 'City of Norwich, 76 Connecticut,
565. No such question was considered in either Knoxville
v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, or in Willcox v. Covsolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19. Both cases were rate
cases, and did not concern the ascertainment of value
under contracts of sale.
Aside from the errors pointed out in the petition for
the writ of certiorari counsel have suggested certain difficulties before a final decree, which are not disposed of in
the opinion or decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The Circuit Court had dismissed the bill. The Circuit
Court of Appeals considered and decided all of the large
questions which were involved under the bill, but did not
direct the precise form of the .decree which the Circuit
Court should enter, and remanded the case with direction to reverse the decree dismissing the bill, and to proceed in accordance with the opinion. Referring to certain matters left open, the court, in its opinion, said:
"In a transaction of this magnitude there will always
be encountered minor obstacles that will readily yield to
business methods. * What the parties cannot agree upon
the trial court has full power to determine according to
principles of right and justice. We refer here to such
contentions as that there are two or three properties in the
city of Omaha belonging to the company but not needed
in the business, and also that there are supposed defects
in its title to other properties. The latter are not of
great importance in comparison with the magnitude of
the entire system. The property not needed was ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 J. S.

praised separately and it can be excluded from the sale,
and the trial court can determine whether the title to
other properties is defective. It is not necessary that the
title of the company to all the lands upon which its works
are built or through which its pipes are laid should be a
fee simple, perfect in every particular and subject to no
criticism. An irrevocable license, for instance, would-be
sufficient, or a title based upon prescription. If, however,
there should be found substantial defects opportunity
should be given the company to remedy them, and if it is
unable to do so the parts Qf'the property so circumstanced
can be valued and the purchase price abated accordingly.
It would be expressing too narrow a view to say that an
appraisal of a great system of waterworks under a contract of purchase must fail because the title to a small part
not vital to the integrity of the system was afterwards
found to be defective. That the deed tendered by the
company was not such as the city was required to take is
immaterial. It is sufficient that the company was able,
ready and willing to do what might lawfully be required
of it. At some time during the progress of the cause in
the trial court the trustees of the mortgages should be
made parties to the end that the precise amount of outstanding bonds may be ascertained and paid and the
liens discharged concurrently with payment by the city
of the purchase price. Doubtless the company will have
to use the proceeds of sale in paying its mortgage indebtedness. Or if an- arrangement is "desired such as was
made in the Kansas City case, whereby the mortgages are
assumed by the city, and the company released from
liability, the presence in the case of the trustees would
facilitate it.
"The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded with
direction to proceed to decree in accordance with the
views expressed in this opinion."
We do not feel ourselves under any obligation to do

HERTZ v. WOODMAN.
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

more than to hold that we find no error in the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals and to remand the case to
the Circuit Court to be proceeded with accordingly.
Affirmed.

HERTZ, COLLECTOR, v. WOODMAN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 640.

Argued April 25, 26, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

Where, as in this case, the certificate sufficiently states both the question and the desire of the Circuit Court of Appeals for instructions
so that it may make a proper decision, it conforms in substance to
the provisions of § 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
The rule of stare decisis tends to uniformity and consistency of decision
but it is not inflexible, and it is within the discretion of a court to
follow or depart from its prior decisions.
It is the practice of this court to affirm without opinion where the
judgment under review is not decided to be erroneous by a majority
of the court sitting in the cause.
While the affirmance of a judgment by this court by a divided court
is a conclusive adjudication between the parties, it is not an au•thority on the principles of law involved for the determination of
other cases in this or in inferior courts; and this, although a different
rule has been sanctioned in England.
While an unqualified repeal of a law operates to destroy inchoate rights
as a release of -imperfect obligations and as a remission of penalties
and forfeitures dependent upon. the destroyed statute, § 13, Rev.
Stat.,, based on § 4 of the act of February 25, 1871, c. 71, 16 Stat.
431, operates, unless the repealing act does not expressly or by
implication exclude such operation, as a general saving clause for
all repealing statutes and extends not only to penalties and forfeitures but to liabilities under the repealed statute. Great Northern
Railway Co. v. United States, 208 U. S. 452.
Upon the passing by death of a vested right to the immediate possession or enjoyment of a legacy or distributive share there was imposed
by the inheritance tax provisions of the War Revenue Act of 1898

