CHILES v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY.
218 U. S.

71

Counsel for Parties.

CHILES v. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 158. Argued April 18, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.
As held by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, a railroad company has
the right, in that State, to establish rules and regulations which
require white and colored passengers, even though they be interstate, to occupy separate apartments upon the train provided there
is no discrimination in the accommodations.
In this case held that an interstate colored passenger was not compelled to occupy a separate apartment on a train in Kentucky from
that occupied by white passengers under a state statute but under
rules and regulations of the railroad company.
Whether interstate passengers of different races must have different apartments or share the same apartment is a question of
interstate commerce to be determined by Congress alone, Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mississippi,133 U. S. 587, and the inaction of
Congress in that regard is equivalent to the declaration that carriers
can by reasonable regulations separate colored and white passengers.
Regulations which are induced by the general sentiment of the community for whom they are made and upon whom they operate cannot
be said to be unreasonable.
125 Kentucky, 299, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve constitutional -rights of colored passengers on interstate trains in Kentucky, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. Alexander Chiles, plaintiff in error pro se, with
whom Mr. B. E. Smith, Mr. W. L. Ricks and Mr. Albert
S. White were on the brief.
Mr. John T. Shelby, with whom Mr. Henry T. Wickham and Mr. Henry Taylor, Jr., were on the brief, for
defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

218 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.

Plaintiff in error is a colored man. He bought a firstclass ticket from'defendant in error, a corporation engaged in' operating a line of railroad from the city of
Louisville, State of Kentucky, and the city of Cincinnati,
State of Ohio, to the city of Washington, District of
Columbia. The ticket entitled him to ride from Washington to Lexington, Kentucky.
The train which he took at Washington did not run
through to Lexington, and he changed to another train at
Ashland, Kentucky, going into a car, which it is alleged,
under the rules and regulations of defendant in error, was
set apart exclusively for white persons. From this car he
was required to remove to a car set apart exclusively for
the transportation of colored persons.
He removed under protest and only after a police officer
had been pummoned by defendant in error. Subsequently
he brought this action in the Circuit Court of Fayette
County, Kentucky. The case was tried to a jury, which
rendered a verdict against him. A motion for a new trial
was overruled. He appealed to the Court of Appeals of the
State and the action and judgment of the trial court werd
affirmed.
The assignments of error in this court depend upon the
contention that plaintiff in error was an interstate pAssenger and was entitled to a first-class passage from Washington to Lexington, and that, therefore, the act of defendant in error in causing him to be removed from the iAr at
Ashland was a violation of his rights and subjected the
railroad company to damages.
The Court of Appeals of the State made the case turn
on a narrow ground, to wit, the right which, it was decided, a railroad company had "to establish such rules
and regulations as will require white and colored passen-

CHILES v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY.
218 U. S.

73

Opinion of the Court.

gers, although they may be interstate, to occupy separate
compartments upon the train." The court, however, said
that there could be no discrimination in the accommodations.
The court found the facts of the removal of plaintiff
and the character of the car to which he was required to
remove as follows:
"This Lexington train is made up of four coaches, the
first, and the one nearest the engine, being. a combined
baggage, mail and express car; the second is a passenger
coach divided by board partitions into three compartments; one of these compartments, located at the end of
the car, is set apart for colored passengers, the middle
compartment is for the use of colored passengers who
smoke, and the end compartment is for the accommodation of white persons who smoke; the third car is a passenger coach intended for the use of white ladies and gentlemen; the fourth car is a sleeping car that runs through
from Washington to Lexington. Appellant, yvhen he
attempted to get on the Lexington train was told by the
brakeman to go in the colored apartment. This he declined to do, and walked in and took a seat in the third
coach, set apart for the exclusive use of white passengers.
In a- few moments the conductor came in and asked the
appellant, in obedience to a rule of the company, to go
forward in the apartment set apart for colored passengers,
but he refused to do so, stating that he had bought a
through first-class ticket from Washington to Lexington,
and was an interstate passenger who knew his rights, and
that the separate coach law of Kentucky did not apply
to him, and declared his intention of retaining the seat
he occupied. Thereupon the conductor summoned a
policeman, who also requested appellant to go in the other
car, and, upon his refusal, he was informed. that he would
be compelled to leave the car in which he was seated.
Appellant, yet insisting upon his right to remain. in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

car in which he was, followed the policeman into the
colored passenger coach."
The court further said:
"There is really no material issue of fact involved in
the case. No force or violence, or rude or oppressive conduct, was employed by the agents of appellee in removing
appellant from the car in which he was seated to the car
set apart for colored persons. And except that the car
into which he was removed is divided by partitions into
three compartments, it was substantially equal in quality,
convenience and accommodation to the car into which
he first seated himself, and the compartment into which
appellant was directed to go was cleanly and ample for
his accommodation, and equipped with the same conveniences as the other passenger coaches on the train
from which he was'ejected."
In this the court came to the same conclusion as. the
jury. Plaintiff, in error insists that this conclusion put
out of view his rights as an interstate commerce passenger.
Both courts ignored such rights, he contends, the trial
court in refusing instructions that were requested and
in its ruling on the trial, and the Court of Appeals in affirming the judgment which was based upon the verdict.
We need not set out the instructions nor the rulings.
The complaint of the action of the court rests upon the
contention that, as against an interstate passenger, the
regulation of the company in providing different cars for
the white and colored races is void. There is a statute of
Kentucky which requires railroad companies to furnish separate coaches for white and colored passengers, but the
Court of Appeals of the State put the statute out of consideration, declaring that it had no application to interstate trains, and defendant in error does not rest its defense upon that statute, but upon its rules and regulations.
Plaintiff in error makes some effort to keep the statute in
the case, and says that the trial court, by its ruling upon

CHILES v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY.
218 U. S.

75

Opinion of the Court.

testimony and by its instructions, confined "the jury
only to the lesser motive" of defendant's "wrongful act."
In other words, as we understand plaintiff in error, confined the jury to the consideration of the regulations of
the railroad company and withdrew from its consideration
the effect of the statute under which, it is said, the conductor declared he acted. But by this we understand
plaintiff in error to illustrate that his rights as an interstate passenger were denied. We are, therefore, brought
back to the question what his rights as such passenger
were.
The elements of that question have been considered
and passed on in a number of cases. And we must keep
in mind that we are not dealing with the law of a State
attempting a regulation of interstate commerce beyond
,its power to make. We are dealing with the act of a private
person, to wit, the railroad company, and the distinction
between state and interstate commerce we think is unimportant.
In Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485, the court passed on an
act of the State of Louisiana, which required those engaged in the transportation of passengers among the States
to give all passengers traveling within that State, upon
vessels employed in such business, equal rights and privileges in all parts of the vessel, without. distinction on account of race or color, and subjectcd to an action for
damages the owner of such vessel who excluded colored
passdngers on account of their color from the cabin set
apart for whites during the passage. It was held that the
act was a regulation of interstate commerce and was void.
The court said, by Chief Justice Waite, after stating that
the power of regulating interstate commerce was exclusively in Congress, "This power of regulation may be
exercised without legislation as well as with it." And
that, "by refraining from action, Congress, in effect,
adopts as its own regulations those which the common

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

law or the civil law, where that prevails, for the government of such business." The court Yurther said, quoting
from Welton v. The State of Missouri, 91 U. S. 282, " 'that
inaction [by Congress] is equivalent to a declaration that
interstate commerce shall remain free and untrammeled.' "
And added, "Applying that principle to the circumstances
of this case, Congressional inaction left Beason [the ship
owner] at liberty to adopt such reasonable rules and regu-.
lations for the disposition of passengers upon his boat
while pursuing her voyage within Louisiana or without
as seem to him most for the interest of all concerned."
This language is pertinent to the case at bar, and demonstrates that the contention of the plaintiff in error is
untenable. In other words, demonstrates that the interstate commerce clause of t
Constitution does not
constrain the action of carriers, but on the contrary
leaves them to adopt rules and regulations for the government of their business, free from any interference except
by Congress. Such rules and regulations, of course, must
be reasonable, but whether they be such cannot depend
upon a passenger being state or interstate. This also is
manifest frbm the cited case. There, as we have seen, an
interstate colored passenger was excluded from the privileges of the cabin set apart for white persons by a regulation of the carrier and where the colored passenger's right
to be was attempted to be provided by a state statute.
The statute. was declared invalid, because it attempted to
force a carrier to do the very thing which plaintiff in
error complains was not done in the case at bar, to wit,
permit him to ride in the place set apart for white passengers. In other words, the statute was struck down, because it interfered with the regulations of the carrier as to
interstate passengers. This court commented on the case
subsequently in Louisville &c. Railway Company v. Mississippi,133 U. S. 587, 590, and said: "Obviously, whether
interstate passengers of one race should, in any portion

CHILES v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY.
218 U. S.

77

Opinion of the Court.

of their journey, be compelled to share their cabin accommodations with passengers of another race was a question of interstate commerce, and to 'be determined by
Congress alone." We have seen that it was decided in
Hall v. DeCuir that the inaction of Congress was equivalent to the declaration that a carrier could by regulations
separate colored and white interstate passengers.
In Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 540, a statute of
Louisiana which required railroad companies to provide
separate accommodations for the white and colored races
was considered. The statute was attacked on the ground
that it violated the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United States. The
opinion of the court, which was by Mr. Justice Brown,
reviewed prior cases, and not only sustained the law but
justified as reasonable the distinction between the races
on account of which the statute was passed and enforced.
It is true the power of a legislature to recognize a racial
distinction was the subject considered, but if the test of
reasonableness in legislation be, as it was declared to be,
"the established usages, customs and traditions of the
people" and the "promotion of their comfort and the
preservation of the public peace and good order," this
must also be the test of the reasonableness of the regulations of a carrier, made for like purpose and to secure like
results. Regulations which are induced by the general
sentiment of the community for whom they are made and
upon whom they operate, cannot be said to be unreasonable. See also Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Company v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388.
The extent of the difference based upon the distinction
between the white and colored races which may be observed in legislation or in the regulations of carriers has
been discussed so much that we are relieved from further
enlargement upon it. We may refer to Mr. Justice Clifford's concurring opinion in Hall v. DeGuir for a review

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

of the cases. They are also cited in Plessy v. Ferguson at
page 550. We think the judgment should be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents from the opinion and
judgment.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBL.
No. 168.

Argued April 22, 25, 1910.-Decided May 31, 1910.

While the pleadings and proofs should correspond, a rigid exactitude
is not required, and no variance should be regarded as material
where the allegation and proof substantially correspond.
Even if there is a variance between declaration and proof, if as in
this case, defendant is not misled, makes no objection to plaintiff's
proof but replies to it by testimony of likekind, is familiar With the
facts, does not indicate the variance and does not move for continuance, the variance cannot be regarded as fatal.
The extent of the knowledge of a defendant employer as to the use
made of appliances by an employ6 by whose act another employ6
is injured and the conclusions to be drawn therefrom are questions
for the jury and cannot be reviewed here.
The substitution of "would" for "could" in an instruction to the jury
in this case held not to have affected the minds of the jurors.
In this case there was no reversible error because the court did not
impress upon the jurors the fact that interest may affect credibility
of witnesses; and, qumre whether a party testifying exercises a privilege which may be emphasized as affecting.his credibility.
31 App. D. C. 371, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. Leftwich Sinclair and Mr. Joseph J. Darlington,
for plaintiff in error:

To entitle a plaintiff to go to the jury, the evidence

