THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 17.

Argued October 27, 1910.-Decided December 12, 1910.

At common law husband and wife were regarded as one, the legal
existence of the latter during coverture being merged in that of the
former.
Statutes passed in pursuance of a more liberal and general policy of
emancipation of the wife from the husband's control differ in terms

and each must be construed with a view to effectuate the legislative
intent leading to its enactment.
In construing a statute the courts must have in mind the old law and
the change intended to be effected by the passage of the new.
While by § 1155 and other sections of the Code of the District of
Columbia the common law was changed by conferring additional
rights on married women and the right to sue separately for redress
of wrongs concerning the same, it was not the intention of Congress
to revolutionize the law governing the relation of husband and wife
between themselves.
Under the existing statutes, a wife cannot maintain an action in the
District of Columbia against the husband to recover damages for an
assault and battery by him upon her person.
While the wife may resort to the Chancery Court to protect her separate property rights, quwre, and not decided, whether she alone may
bring an action against the husband to protect such rights.
31 App. D. C. 557, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a wife to maintain
an action in the District of Columbia against her husband
to recover damages for an assault and battery, are stAted
in the opinion.
Mr. Win. M. Lewin for plaintiff in error:
Prior to the enactment of the Code it was a tort for a
man to assault his wife. The provisions of the Code remove a common-law obstacle to the remedy.
Railroad Co., 168 U. S. 445.

Stewart v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

218 U. S.

These provisions will be liberally construed, for it is the
duty of every State to provide, in the administration of
justice, for the redress of private wrongs; if there be a civil
right there must be a legal remedy. Railway Co. v. Humes,
115 U. S. 512, 521; Bank v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527, 539. And
protection against tort is as necessary as the enforcement
of contract. Wills v. Jones, 13 App. D. C. 482, 497.
As redress cannot be obtained in equity, because of the
essential character of the case, the rule is settled that the
remedy must be by a suit at law. Van Norden v. Morton,
99 U. S. 378, 380. The reasoning of the New York
case upon which the Court of Appeals relies has long
since been repudiated. Freethy v. Freethy, 42 Barb.
(N. Y.) 641; see Bronson v. Bradey, 28 App. D. C. 250,
262; Stickney v. Stickney, 131 U. S.227, 237.
A statute will not be so construed that remote inferences withdraw a case from its general provisions which
is clearly within its words and perfectly consistent with
its intent. Railroad Co. v. Church, 19 Wall. 62, 65;
Bryan v. Kennett, 113 U. S.179, 196; Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S.112, 115, 116.
As to the wife's general right to convey, see Luhrs v.
Hancock, 181 U. S.567, 571. Construction broadens with
legislation and as to broadening rights of a married
woman, see 16 Stat. 45; Rev. Stat. Dist. of Col., §§ 727,
729; Satz v. Mitchell,. 94 U. S.580, 584.
By the Code not only are her earnings her own property
absolutely, §§ 1151, 1154, but she is permitted to hold
them as fully as if she were unmarried, and, § 1155; to
sue for their recovery, security, or protection, but, § 1155,
she is also empowered to sue for torts committed against
her as fully and freely as if she were unmarried.
A change in phraseology creates a presumption of a
change in intent, and no word of the change should be
held insignificant. Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S.176, 190;
Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S.115, 116.

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Even under the act of 1869 a wife could contract with
her husband. Sykes v. Chadwick, 18 Wall. 141, 143,
148.
And now she may sue him, even in tort, for that construction will be followed which commends itself to the
judgment of the court. May v. May, 9 Nebraska, 16, 25;
Rice v. Sally, 176 Missouri, 107, 130, 131; Covlam v.
Doull, 133 U. S.216, 233.
The right to her earnings necessarily implies the right
to maintain her capacity to earn. The right to sue anyone, the husband not excepted, for impairment of that
capacity is incidental thereto. Traer v. Clews, 115.U. S.
528, 540; Seybert v. Pittsburg, 1 Wall. 272.
This would follow from the construction of § 1151 in.
pari materia with § 1155. Tel. Co. v. Lipscomb, 22 App.
D. C. 104, 113, 114; Asphalt Co. v. Mackey, 15 App. D. C.
410, 417; Stickney v. Stickney, 131 U. S. 227, 237.
Her capacity to earn is her own, and for its impairment she may recover. Evidence of such impairment is
admissible under the declaration in this case. She is
therefore entitled to a trial upon the merits. Railway Co.
v. Humble, 181 U. S. 57, 63; Hamilton v. Railroad Co., 17
Montana, 334, 352; Railway Co. v. Harris, 122 U. S.597,
608; Harmon v. Railroad Co., 165 Massachusetts, .100,
104; Pomerene v. White, 70 Nebraska, 171, 176; Railroad
Co. v. Kremple, 103 Ill. App. 1; Brooks v. Schwerin, 54
N. Y. 343, 349; Wade v. Leroy, 20 How. 34, 44; Railroad
Co. v. Dick, 78 S.W. Rep. (Ky.) 914; Samuels v. Railway
Co., 124 California, 294; Railroad Co. v. Hecht, 115 Indiana, 443, 446.
The Court of Appeals bases its conclusion upon the
proposition that the parties are one in law. The court
had previously said that that was the feudal notion and
not the Christian notion. Carrollv. Reidy, 5 App. D. C.
59, 62; and see also Bronson v. Brady, 28 App. D. C.
250, 263.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Mr. A. E. I. Leckie, Mr. Creed M. Fulton, Mr. Joseph

W. Cox and Mr. John A. Kratz, submitted for defendants in error and cited: 21 Cyc. 1517, 1518; §450, N. Y.
Code of Civ. Pro.; § 3, N. Y. Stat. of 1862; Alward v.
Alward, 2 N. Y. Supp. 42; Smith v. Gorman, 41 Maine,
405, 408; Small v. Small, 129 Pa. St. 366; Larison v.
Larison, 9 Ill. App. 27, 31; Jones v. Jones, 19 Iowa, 236;
Greer v. Greer, 24 Kansas, 101; Manning v. Manning, 79
N. Car. 293; Iowa Code, 1873, §§ 2204, 2211; Peters v.
Peters, 42 Iowa, 182; Heacock v. Heacock, 108 Iowa, 540;
Decker v. Kedley, 148 Fed. Rep. 681; Main v. Main, 46
Ill. App. 106; Libbey v. Berry, 74 Maine, 286; Abbott v.
Abbott, 67 Maine, 304; Freethyv. Freethy, 42 Barb. (N. Y.)
641; Abbe v. Abbe, 22 App. Div. 483; Strom v. Strom, 98
Minnesota, 427.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents a single question, which is involved
in the construction of the statutes governing the District
of Columbia. That question is, Under those statutes may
a Wife bring an action to recover damages for an assault
and battery upon her person by the husband?
The declaration of the plaintiff is i the ordinary form,
and in seven counts charges divers assaults upon her person by her husband, the defendant, for which the wife
seeks to recover damages in the sum of $70,000. An issue
of law being made by demurrer to the defendant's pleas,
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia held that
such action would not lie under the statute. Upon writ
of error to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia the judgment of the Supreme Court wa§ affirmed.
31 App. D. C. 557.
At the common law the husband and wife were regarded
as one. The legal existence of the wife during coverture
was merged in that of the husband, and, generally speaking, the wife was incapable of making contracts, of ac-

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quiring property or disposing of the same without her
husband's consent. They could not enter into contracts
with each other, nor were they liable for torts committed
by one against the other. In pursuance of a more liberal
policy in favor of the wife, statutes have been passed
in many of the States looking to the relief of a married woman from the disabilities imposed upon her as-a
femme covert by the common law. Under these laws she
has been empowered to control and dispose of her own
property free from the constraint of the husband, in many
instances to carry on trade and business, and to deal with
third persons as though she were a single woman. The
wife has further beep enabled by the passage of such
statutes to sue for trespass upon her rights in property
and to protect the security of her person against the
wrongs and assaults of others.
It is unnecessary to review these statutes in detail.
Their obvious purpose is, in some respects, to treat the
wife as a femme sole, and to a large extent to alter the
common law theory of the unity of husband and wife.
These statutes, passed in pursuance of the general policy
of emancipation of the wife from the husband's control,
differ in terms and are to be construed with a view to effectuate the legislative purpose which led to their enactment.
It is insisted that the Code of the District of Columbia
has gone so far in the direction of modifying the common
law relation of husband and wife as to give to her an
action against him for torts committed by him upon.her
person or property. The answer to this contention depends upon a construction of § 1155 of the District of
Columbia Code, 31 Stat. 1189,1374, March 3,1901. That
section provides:
"SEc. 1155. Power of Wife to Trade and Sue and be
Sued.-Married women shall have power to'engage in any
business, and to contract, whether engaged in business or
not, and to sue separately upon their contracts, and also

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

to sue separately for the recovery, security, or protection
of their property, and for torts committed against them,
as fully and freely as if they were unmarried; contracts
may also be made with them, and they may also be sued
separately upon their contracts, whether made before or
during marriage, and for wrongs, independent of contract
committed by them before or during their marriage, as
fully as if they were unmarried, and upon judgments recovered against them execution may be issued as if they
were unmarried; nor shall any husband be liable upon
any contract made by his wife in her own name and upon
her own responsibility, nor for any tort committed separately by her out of his presence without his participation
or sanction: -Provided, That no married woman shall have
power to make any contract as surety or guarantor, or
as accommodation -drawer, acceptor, maker, or indorser."
In construing a statute the courts are to have in mind
the old law and the change intended to be effected by the
passage of the new. Reading this section, it is apparent
that its purposes, among others, were to enable a married
woman to engage in business and to make contracts free
from the intervention or control of the husband, and to
maintain actions separately for the recovery, security and
protection of her property. At the common law, with
certain exceptions not necessaryto notice in this connection, the wife could not maintain an action at law except
she be joined by her husband. Barber v. Bar6er; 21 How.
582, 589. F& injuries suffered by the -wife in her person
or property, such as would give rise to a cause of,action in
favor of a'fehmne sole, a suit could be institute 'only in
the joint name of herself and husband. 1 Cooley on
Torts, 3d edition, 472, and dases cited in the-note.
By this District of Columbia statute the common law
was changed, and, in view of the additional rights conferred upon married women in § 1155 and other sections
of the Code, she is given the right to sue separately for

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

redress of wrongs concerning the same. That this was the
purpose of the statute, when attention is given to the very
question under consideration, is apparent from the consideration of its terms. Married women are authorized
to sue separately for "the recovery, security or protection
of their property, and for torts committed against her as
fully and freely as if she were unmarried." That is, the
limitation upon her right of action imposed in the requirement of the common law that the husband should join her
was removed by the statute, and she was permitted to
recover separately for such torts, as freely as if she were
still unmarried. The statute was not intended to give a
right of action as against the husband, but to allow the
wife, in her own name, to maintain actions of tort which
at common law must be brought in the joint names of herself and husband.
This construction we think is obvious from a reading of
the statute in the light of the purpose sought to be accomplished. It gives a reasonable effect to the terms used,
and accomplishes, as we believe, the legislative intent,
which is the primary object of all construction of statutes.
It is suggested that the liberal construction insisted for
in behalf of the defendant in error in this case might well
be given, in view of the legislative intent to provide
remedies for grievous wrongs to the wife; and an instance
is suggested in the wrong to a wife rendered unable to
follow the avocation of a seamstress by a cruel assault
which might destroy the use of hand or arm; and the justice is suggested of giving a remedy to an artist who might
be maimed and suffer great pecuniary damages as the
result of injuries inflicted by a brutal husband.
Apart from the consideration that the. perpetration of
such atrocious wrongs affords adequate grounds for relief
under the statutes of divorce and alimony, this construction would at the same time open the doors of the courts
to accusations of all sorts of one spouse against the other,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910,
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

and bring into public notice complaints for assault, slander
and libel, and alleged injuries to property of the one or
the other, by husband against wife or wife against husband.
Whether the exercise of such jurisdiction would be promotive of the public welfare and domestic harmony is at
least a debatable question. The possible evils of such legislation might well make the lawmaking power hesitate to
enact it. But these and kindred considerations are addressed to the legislative, not the judicial branch of the
Government. In cases like the present, interpretation of
the law is the only function of the courts.
An examination of this class of legislation will show that
it has gone much further in the direction of giving rights
to the wife in the management and control of her separate
property than it has in giving rights of action directly
against the husband. In no act called to our attention
has the right of the wife been carried to the extent of opening the courts to complaints of the -character of the one
here involved.
It must be presumed that the legislators who enacted
this statute were familiar with the long-established policy
of the common law, and were not unmindful of the radical
changes in the policy of centuries which such legislation
as is herO suggested would bring about. Conceding it to
be within th -powerof the legislature to make this alteration in the law, if it saw fit to do so, nevertheless such
radical and far-reaching changes should only be wrought
by language so clear and plain as to be unmistakable evidence of the legislative intention. Had it been the legislative purpose not only to permit the wife to bring suits
free from her husband's participation and control, but
to bring actions against him also for injuries to person or
property as though they were strangers, thus emphasizing
and publishing differences which otherwise might not be
serious, it would have been easy to have expressed that
intent in terms of irresistible clearness.

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

HARLAN, HohMEs and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

We can but regard this case as another of many attempts.
which have failed, to obtain by construction radical and
far-reaching changes in the policy of the common law not
declared in the terms of the legislation under consideration.
Some of the cases of that character are: Bandfield v.
Bandfield, 117. Michigan, 80; Abbott v. Abbott, 67 Maine,
304; Schultz v. Schultz, 89 N. Y. 644; Freethy-v. Freethy, 42
Barbour, 641; Peters v. Peters, 42 Iowa, 182. '
Nor is the wife left without remedy for such wrongs.
She may resort to the criminal courts, which, it is to be
presumed, will inflict punishment commensurate with the
offense committed. She inay sue for divorce or separation
and for alimony. The court in protecting her rights and
awarding relief in such cases may consider, and, so far as
possible, redress her wrongs and protect her rights.
She may resort to the chancery court for the protection of her separate property rights. 21 How. 582, 590.
Whether the wife alone may now bring actions against the
husband to protect her separate property, such as are
cognizable in a suit in equity when brought through the
medium of a next friend (21 How., supra), is a question
not made or decided in this case.
We do not believe it was the intention of Congress, in
the enactment of the District of Columbia Code, to revolutionize the law governing the relation of husband and
wife as between themselves. We- think the construction
we have given the statute is in harmony with its language
and is the only one consistent with its purpose.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia will be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, with whom concur MR. JUSTICE
HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE HUGHES. dissenting.

This is an action by a wife against her husband to recover damages for assault and battery. The declaration

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN, HoLMES and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting.

218 U. S.

contains seven counts. The first, second and third charge
assault by the husband upon the wife on three several
days. The remaining counts charge assaults by him upon
her on different days named-she being at the time iregnant, as the husband then well knew.
The defendant filed two pleas--the first that he was
not guilty, the second that, at the time of the causes of
action mentioned, the plaintiff and defendant were husband and wife and living together as such.'
The plaintiff demurred to the second pllea, and the
demurrer was overruled. She stood by the demurrer, and
the action was dismissed.
The action is based upon §§ 1151and 1155 of the Code
of the District, which are as follows:
"SEc. 1151. All the property, real, personal, and mixed,
belonging to a woman at the time of her marriage, and all
such property which she may acquire or receive after
her marriage from any person whonisoever, by purchase,
gift, grant, devise, bequest, descent, In the course of dihstribution, by her own skill, labor, or personal exertions,
or as proceeds of a judgment at law or decree in equity,
or in any other manner, shall be her own property as absolutely as if she were unmarried, and'shall be protected
from the debts of the husband and shall not in any way
be liable for the payment thereof: Provided, 'That no
acquisition of, property passing to the wife from the
husband after coverture shall be valid if the same has
been made or granted to her in prejudice of the rights
of his subsisting creditors.
"SEc. 1155. Married women shall have power to engage in any business, and to contract, whether engaged
in business or not, and to sue separately upon their contracts, and also to sue separately for the recovery, security
or protection of their property, and for torts committed
against them, as fully and freely as if they were unmarried;
contracts may also be made with them, and they may

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

HARLAN, HOLMES and HUGHES, JJ., dissenting,

also be sued separately upon their contracts, whether
made before or during marriage, and for wrongs independent of contract committed by them before or during
their marriage, as fully as if they were unmarried, and
upon judgments recovered against them execution may
be issued as if they were unmarried; nor shall any husband
be liable upon any contract made by his wife in her own
name and upon her own responsibility, nor for any tort
committed separately by her out of his presence without
his participation or sanction: Provided, That no married
woman shall have power to make any contract as surety
or as guarantor, or as accommodation drawer, acceptor,
maker or indorser."
The court below held that these provisions did not
authorize an action for tort committed by the husband
against the wife.
In my opinion these statutory provisions, properly construed, embrace such a case as the present one. If the
words used by Congress lead to such a result, and if, as
suggested, that result be undesirable on grounds of public policy, it is not within the functions of the court
to ward off the dangers feared or the evils threatened
simply by a judicial construction that will defeat the
plainly-expressed will of the legislative department. With
the mere policy, expediency or justice of legislation the
courts, in our system of government, have no rightful
concern. Their duty is only to declare what the law is,
not what, in their judgment, it ought to be-leaving the
responsibility for legislation where it exclusively belongs,
that is, with the legislative department, so long as it keeps
within constitutional limits. Now, there is not here, as I
think, any room whatever for mere construction-so explicit are the words of Congress. Let us follow the clauses
of the statute in their order. The statute enables the
married woman to take, as her own, property of any kind,
no matter how acquired by. her, as well- as the avails of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910._
'HARLAN, HOLMES

and Hruons,JJ., dissenting.

218 U. S.

her skill, labor or personal exertions, "as asolutely as
if she were unmarried." It then confers upon married
women the power to engage in any business, no matter
what, and to enter into contracts, whether engaged in
business or not, and to sue separately upon those contracts.
If the statute stopped here, there would be ground for
holding that it did not authorize this suit. But the statute goes much farther, It proceeds to authorize married
women "also" to sue separately for the recovery, security
or, protection of their property; still more, they may sue,
separately, "for torts committed against them, as fully
and freely as if they were unmarried." No discrimination
is made, in either case, between the persons charged with
committing the tort. No exception is made in reference
to the husband, if he happens to be the party charged
with transgressing the rights conferred upon the wife by
the statute. In other words, Congress, by these statutory
provisions, destroys the unity of the marriage association
as it had previously existed- It makes a radical change in
the relations of man anld Wife as those relations were at
common law in this DiStrict. In respect of business and
property the married woman is given absolute control; in
respect of the recovery, security and protection of her property, she may sue, separately, in tort, as if she was .unmarried; and in respect of herself, that is, of her-person, she
may sue, separately, a fully and freely, as if she we'e unmarried, "for torts committed against her." So the statute expressly reads. But my brethren think that notwithstanding the destruction by -the statute of the unity of the
married relation, it could not have been intended to -open
the doors of the courts to accusations of'all sorts by husband and wife against each other; and, therefore, they are
moved to add, by construction, to the provision, that
married women may "sue separately . . . for t6its.
committed against them as fully and freely as if they
were unmarried" these words: "Provided, however, that

THOMPSON v. THOMPSON.
218 U. S.

HARLAN,

VlOLns and

HUGHES,

.623

JJ., dimsenting.

the wife shall not be entitled, in any case, to sue her
husband separately for a tort'committed against her perf the husband violently takes possession of his
son."
wife's property and withholds it from her she may, under
the statute, sue him, separately, for its recovery. But
such a civil action will .be one in tort. If he, injures or
destroys her property she may, under the statute, sue him,
separately, for damages. That action would also be one
in tort. If 'these propositions ae disputed, what becomes
of the words in the statute to the effect that she may" sue
separately for the recovery, security and protection" of
her property? But if-they are conceded-as I think they
must be-then Congress, under the construction now
placed by the court on the statute, is 'put in the anomalous position of allowing a married woman to sue her
husband separately, in tort, for the recovery of her property, but denying her the right or privilege to sue "him
separately, in tort, for damages arising from his brutal
assaults upon her person. I will not assume!that Congress
intended to bring about any such result. I cannot believe
that it intended to permit the wife to sue the husband
separately, in tort, for the recovery, including damages
for the detention, of her property, 4nd at the same time
deny her the right to sue him, separately, for a tort committed against her person.
I repeat that with the policy, wisdom or. justice of the
legislation in question this court can have no rightful
concern. It must tAke the law as it has been established
by co mpetent legislative aithority. It cannot, in any
legal sense, make law, but only declare 'what the law is,
as established by competent authority.
My brethren feel constrained to say that the present
case illustrates the attempt, often made, to effect radical
changes in the common law by mere construction. On
the contrary, the judgment just rendered will have, as
I think, the effeat to defeat, the clearly expressed will of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

218 U. S.

the legislature by a construction of its words that cannot
be reconciled with their ordinary meaning.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court,
and am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

concur in this dissent.

CITY OF MEMPHIS v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 42.

Argued November 8, 9, 1910.-Decided December 12, 1910.

The right of the Circuit Court to take jurisdiction of a case as one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States mus* distinctly appear in theallegations of the bill; but this court may take
jurisdiction of direct appeal from the Circuit Court under § 5 of the
Court of Appeals Act if it properly appears'that a right under the
Constitution and laws of the United Stateowas duly claimed during the case. Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472.
While the opinion of the Circuit Court may not be examined to ascertain what should, under proper practice, appear in the pleadings or
bill of exceptions, it may be looked to, when annexed and formingpart of the record, to ascertain whether either party claimed, and
was denied, a Federal right.
Municipal legislation passed without authority of the State does not
lay the foundation of Federal jurisdiction; and statements in the
bill to the effect that the ordinances complained of were unauthorized and illegal will be held to refer to the state, rather than to
the Federal, constitution, in the absence of distinct references to
the latter.
Qutere, whether a bill within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court can
be construed as charging that the action of.a municipality was without authority from the State and also that such action denied plaintiff his constitutional rights under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where diverse citizenship exists and the bill alleges, and the Circuit

