OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

MOORE PRINTING TYPEWRITER COMPANY v.
NATIONAL SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 21.

Argued October 27, 28, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.

Where the prayer of a bill by a trustee is simply for permission to resign the trust and turn over the subject-matter thereof to another
trustee in accordance with the terms of the agreement itself, the
action cannot be treated as one of, or in the nature of, interpleader.
Where the filing of a cross bill would tie up property pending determination of title, the court does not err in requiring the party filing
it, to apply for an injunction and give a bond as required by the
rules of the court; nor will this court assume that the amount of
the bond was too large when such party did not invoke further action, but took an appeal before the expiration of the time allowed
for complying with the provisions of the decree.
31 App. D. C. 452, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charle8 A. Keigwin, with whom Mr. George P.
Montague was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. J. J. Darlington for appellee, National Savings
and Trust Co.
Mr. John J. Crawford for appellees, holders of trust
certificates.
Mr. J. K. M. Norton for appellees, Thompson and
others.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the National Say-

MOORE PRINTING CO. v. NAT. SAV. & TR. CO. .423
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ings and Trust Company against the appellants and certain others to obtain a decree to permit it to resign a
trust created by the deposit with it of 35,005 shares of
the stock of the American Planograph Company. The
stock was' deposited under an agreement signed by
George R. Cornwall, Marion Bryan, Charles T. Moore
and others, all of whom were made parties to the bill.
The agreement contained the following provision:
"And it is hereby mutually agreed by and between all
the parties hereto that on the receipt of the respective
certificates of the said 35,005 shares of stock by the said
trustee from the parties of the first part, the said trustee
shall cause to be delivered to each of the parties of the
first part who contribute toward said 35,005 shares an
assignable trust certificate, which shall recite the number
of shares so deposited by him, and state that the holder
thereof is entitled to an equitable interest in the said
35,005 deposited shares equivalent to the number of
shares so conveyed to and deposited with said, trustee
by each of said depositors. respectively, and that the
holder of said trust certificate or certificates has no right
to vote on any such shares, but shall be entitled to receive
his pro rata share of any dividends paid on the deposited
stock, and that on and after March 31, 1911, each holder
of such trust certificate will, on surrender thereof to the
said trustee, be entitled to a certificate of an equal number
of shares of stock of the American Planograph Company,
and the trustee shall forthwith cause to be transferred
on the books of the American Planograph Company the
stock so held in trust and deliver the certificates thereof
to each of the holders of the said trust certificates."
The agreement transferred the legal title 'to the Trust
Company, and authorized it to vote the stock in the
meeting of the Planograph Company, "for such measures
and such persons as the owners of a majority in amount
of said trust certificates shall direct." Also to collect

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

dividends and pay them to the holders of the trust certificates. The agreement also contained the.following provision: "It is further agreed that in case the said trustee
shall decline to accept or serve, or upon the resignation
of said trustee during the term for which it is or may be
appointed or elected, then the holders of a majority in
amount of the trust certificates shall elect a trustee to fill
the vacancy or vacancies." It was further provided that
the agreement should continue in force until April 26, 1911,
but that the trust might be dissolved before that time
by a vote of three-fourths of the depositors.
It is alleged in the bill that the National Savings and
Trust Company notified the depositors of its desire to
resign its position as trustee, and that the depositors, by
an instrument in writing, duly nominated and appointed
the New York Trust Company of the city of New York
and State of New York to be trustee in its place instead.
And further, that on May 22, 1906,-it received a written
notice from the appellants, purporting to be issued by
themselves and others, that the shares had been transferred to it "by breach of trust on the part of the holders
of certain of the shares," who were trustees of the appellants, and that suit had been commenced by the beneficiaries of the trust in the State of West Virginia against
the Planograph Company to determine, among other
things, the ownership of such shares.
It is also alleged that two suits had been brought and
were pending against the Savings and Trust Company
and others in the Supreme Court of the District, respectively numbered 26731 and 26847, in which restraining
orders were issued and were enforced, restraining it and
the other defendants, until the court's further order, from
removing or attempting to remove from the District of Columbia, and from selling, encumbering or in any manner
disposing of any of the shares of the stock of the Pianograph Company in its.poss.ession or custody. And that by

MOORE PRINTING CO. v. NAT. SAV. & TR. CO. 425
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reason thereof, and of the written notice served upon it
by the Moore Company, it is "advised that it may not
transfer the said shares of stock in its possession to the
said New York Trust Company as its successor in the
said trust, without the risk of liability and loss, except
through the aid of this court, and that it is entitled in
its said capacity as a trustee to apply to this court for its
instructions and its protection in the premises."
The prayer of the bill was that the Savings and Trust
Company "may be permitted to resign and retire from
its said trust, and to surrender the shares of stock now
held by it to a new trustee; and that the complainant may be instructed by the court as to the manner
and form of transfer by it to its successor in the said
trust."
Costs were also prayed and general relief.
Copies of
the various instruments referred to were attached to the
bill.
The answer of the Moore Company neither admitted
nor denied the averments of the bill, except that it admitted giving notice to the Savings arid Trust Company
as alleged by it and the pendency of the suit in West
Virginia as alleged. Also, that the shares of stock stand
in the name of the Savings and Trust Company 'on the
books of the Planograph Company.
The answer alleges new matter to the following effect:
In January, 1900, Moore, Bryan and Cornwall, three Of
the appellants, entered into a conspiracy for the purpose
of wrecking the Moore Company and a company called
in the answer the Liomatrix, the stock of which is owned
by the Moore Company, and acquiring for themselves
the assets of the Moore Company, including certain
inventions of Moore. To this end they procured the
organization of the Planograph Company, the purposes
of which were of the same general character with those of
the Moore Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

Afterwards, by the use of the new incorporation and
by a course of fraudulent representations and conduct,
which included the piracy of the most valuable machine
of the Moore Company, the officers of the latter company
were induced to believe that the Planograph Company
possessed some inventions of great value, and that the
Moore Company would be benefited by a consolidation
of the two companies. Such consolidation was effected in
1901, upon' terms and in a manner which gave complete
control of the consolidated companies to the confederates,
and that they have used such control for their own profit,
and have by various fraudulent means possessed themselves of a very large part of the 35,005 shares of that
company's stock, deposited with the Savings and Trust
Company. A detail of the transactions by which this
was effected is not necessary to recite.
The answer concludes as follows:
"This defendant admits, on the allegations set forth in
the bill of complaint, that the plaintiff is entitled to resign and be relieved of its trust, but it alleges, on information and belief, that the New York Trust Company
has not consented to accept said trust; and, further, that
no other responsible trust company will be likely to accept
the same if it has full knowledge of the facts, and in view
of all the facts and circumstances hereinabove set forth,
including the restraining orders granted by this court in
equity, suits Nos. 26731 and 26847, referred to in. the
bill of complaint, which orders still remain in force, and
prohibit the removal or transfer of the said-35,005 shares
of Planograph stock, defendant submits that the plaintiff
can be granted relief and the rights of all parties protected only by the appointment of a receiver for the said
35,005 shares of Planograph stock affected by said trust,
who shall hold said stock subject to the orders of this
court until the rights of, the various claimants thereto
have been settled and determined."

MOORE PRINTING CO. v. NAT. SAV. & TR. CO. 427
218 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Certain exhibits were attached to the answer, by which
it is alleged its allegations are sustained.
The individual appellants, by a joint answer, adopted
that of the Moore Company.
All of the other defendants in the suit and appellees here
answered, and gave consent to an order permitting the
Savings and Trust Company to resign its trust and
surrender the shares of stock held by it to the New
York Trust Company. Two of those so consenting are
the complainants in the suits Nos. 26731 and 26847,
referred to ab6ve.
The cause was set down for hearing on bill and answers,
and on December 13, 1907, it coming on to be heard, a decree was entered, authorizing and directing the Savings and
Trust Company to deliver to the New York Trust Company all of the certificates of stock in the American Pianograph Company which it held by virtue of the agreement
alleged in its bill, "and to make such endorsement upon
such certificates as may be required to enable its said
successor to take complete title to such certificates."
And it was ordered that upon compliance with the decree
it should be discharged from all liability to the defendants
in the suit in respect of such certificates and its action
as trustee under such agreement.
The decree concluded as follows:
"Provided, however, that this decree and order shall
be void if on or before the 23d of December, 1907, the
defendants The Moore Printing Typewriter Company,
Russell W. Montague and George P. Montague, or one or
more of said last-named defendants by way of a cross bill
in this case or by original bill in this court, as they may
be advised, shall apply for and obtain a restraining order
or injunction with undertaking and security as required
by equity rule 42. of this court, prohibiting such transfer
of said certificates."
The decree was made by consent of all parties ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

cept by the Moore Company and the individual appellants.
On December 13 the Moore Company offered a cross
bill, which repeated the charges of fraud contained in
its answer, and made other charges of misconduct. It
prayed that the Savings and Trust Company be required
to hold the stock subject to such order or orders as should
thereafter be made, and that it be a trustee of such stock
for the purpose of the cause, and that in the event that
it be permitted to resign the person substituted for it
be deemed a trustee of the stock and hold it subject to
the orders of the court The other relief prayed is not
necessary to mention.
Leave to file the cross bill was granted. Nothing else
was done under it, but the appellants took an appeal
from the decree to the Court of Appeals, by which court
the decree was affirmed.
The contentions of the parties turn upon the question
whether or not the bill is one of interpleader. Appellants
contend that it is one in the nature of interpleader,'being
in some respects identical with it, but involving "another
principle of equity, namely, a trust, and it has, therefore,
a greater scope, and is free from many of the technical
restrictions of strict interpleader, particularly as applied
to bailors and bailees, principal and agent," &c.
.The Court of Appeals considered the bill as one of
strict interpleader and rejected the contention of appellants (they were appellants also in the Court of Appeals), because the claim "asserted was not derived
from the contractual relation existing between plaintiff
[Savings and Trust Company] and the depositors of the
stock." In other words, that the claim of appellants and
the claim of the depositors were not derived from a common source.
The Court of Appeals quoted from Richardson v. Belt,
13 App. D. C. 200, as follows:

MOORE PRINTING CO. v. NAT. SAV. &.TR. CO. 429
218 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"An essential foundation of the equity of interpleader
is, that the party seeking the relief must not be under an
independent or special liability to one of the claimants.
Adams Eq. 204; 3 Pom. Eq., sec. 1327. Where there is
an independent liability of the party seeking the relief
to one of the several defendants, arising out of the relations subsisting between them or upon a special contract
creating, for.example, the relation of bailor and bailee,
landlord and tenant, or creditor and debtor, there can be
no interpleader, unless it be made to appear that others
have acquired a claim of title or interest derived undei the
said liability."
But it is not necessary to consider the essentials of a
bill of interpleader or -one in the nature of interpleader.
It is very certain that the bill in the pending case was not
.intended to be, either. The prayer of the bill is for permission to resign the trust created by the agreement
between the Savings and Trust Company and the depositors of the stock, a right which the agreement expressly
gives it. But appellants say:
"In the present case, either the complainant, the Trust
Company, had aright to compel the adverse claimants to
come into court and litigate their claims, or it had not.
If it had not, the bill should have been dismissed. If, on
the other hand, it had such right, as it clearly had, then
the stock in controversy should have been awarded to
the parties who established their ownership to it, that
is, to the appellants; who, it is submitted, fully established
their claims, while the defendant-appellees practically
made default, which in a case of this nature amounts -to
a confession that they had no right or title as azainst
appellants to the thing in controversy."
The assumptions of these statements are not justified.
The complainant did not bring the appellants into court
to interplead their claim to. the stock with the depositors
of it. The complainant sought only by -its bill to termi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S.

nate its relation to-the depositors of the stock and transfer
the trust it had undertaken to some one else. There
were good reasons for doing so. It-had taken the custody
of and assumed duties in regard to property, the title to
which had come into dispute. Every act that was done
in discharge of those duties would be under the shadow
of illegality and the possibility of litigation. And besides
something had been done under the trust, the propriety
of which might be questioned by the new claimants to the
property. Whether justifiably, was submitted to the court,
and likewise the responsibility of the new trustee. It must
be. remembered that. -after the Savings and Trust Company received notice of the new claimants of the stock it
had to proceed, if it proceeded at all, in the possibility of
such claim being declared the legal one. It sought, therefore, to relieve itself of the trust and receive a complete
discharge fiibm past and future responsibility. The appellants sought to make it a trustee for them during, it may
be, a protracted litigation. It was something more, as we
have seen, than a mere holder of the stock. It had active
duties to perform. We see no error, therefore, in the actipn of the court on the bill and answers.
But it is said that the trial court erred in refusing to
receive the cross bill except upon the terms prescribed in
the decree, which were, as we have seen, that they apply
for an injunction and give a bond, as provided by equity
rule 42 of the court. In the motion for permission to file
the cross bill, orders were asked that would have suspended the operation of the decree and the transfer of the
stock certificates. And it will further be observed that
the stock Was not to be transferred by the decree to those
whose title appellants were seeking to divest, but to a
responsible trust company, and that there were shares
of stock held by the Trust Company in which others had
an interest which, it is not contended, is subject to a
trust in favor of appellants. The purpose of the cross

ARKANSAS SOU. RY. v. LOUISIANA & ARK. RY. 431
218 U. S.

Syllabus.

bill was, therefore, to prevent the use of property under
a claim of title to it which would take time to determine,
and it was not inequitable in the court to require security
of the appellants, the security which was required of other
litigants who sought the same kind of relief.
Appellants, however, contend that the requirement was
inequitable, because the amount of the bond would have
been large and beyond their ability to give. But we may
not assume that the court's action would have been in
excess of what the circumstance would have justified. The
appellants did not invoke further action, but took an appeal, even before the expiration of the time which they had

been given to comply with the provision of the decree.
Decree affirmed.

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
LOUISIANA AND ARKANSAS RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 38. Argued November 4, 1910.-Decided November 28, 1910.
This court must satisfy itself whether or not the party claiming the
benefit of a contract which it claims was impaired by subsequent
legislation had acquired rights under the original contract and therefore has jurisdiction.
This court follows the state court in determining the extent of a special immunity from taxation granted by the constitution of the State.
A subordinate body of the State, in the absence of the State distinctly
limiting its control thereover, contracts'subject, and not paramount,
to the power of the State.
A State by authorizing a municipality to levy taxes in the future on
taxable property withiin its jurisdiction does not thereby limit its
own power to determine what property shall be taxable when the
levy shall be made.

