798

SUPREME COURT.
Backus v. Gould et al.

ELEAZER F. BACKUS, PLAINTIFF IN -ERROR, v. WILLAm GOULD AND
DAVID BA-NKs, wHo SUE AS WELL FOR THE UNITED STATES AS
THEMSELVES.

By the sixth section of the act bf February'td, 1831, entitled "An act to amend the
several acts respecting copyrights," the penalty of fifty cents on each sheet,
whether printed or being printed, or published or exposed to sale, is limited to the
sheets in possession of the party who prints or exposes them to sale.

It does not apply to those sheets which he had published or procured to be published,
whether they were found in his possession or not.

THIS case was brought, by writ of error, from the Circuit
-Court of the United States for the Northern District of New
York.
It was a qui tamn actior4, brought by Gould and Banks against
Backus, for an alleged inVasion of their copyright in nine volumes of Cowen's Reports, and the first three volumes of Wendell's Reports.
On the trial, the.affidavit of John L. Wendell was read, stating that he, the deponent, was the real plaintiff, and that Gould
and Banks were merely-nominal plaintiffs.
In 1838, Backus published a book entitled "A Digest of the
Causes decided and reported in the Superior Court of the City
of New York, the Vice-Chancellor's Court, the Supreme Court
of Judicature, the Court of Chancery, and the Court for the
Correction of Errors, of the State of New York, from 1823 to
October, 1836, with Tables of the Names of the Cases and of
.Titles and References, being a Supplement to Johnson's Digest.
To the declaration, Backus pleaded nil debet,
Upon the trial, the plaintiffs proved themselves entitled to the
copyright of the first, second, and fifth volumes- of Cowen's
Reports, and of the second volume of Wendell's Reports. And
that from the above volumes the defendant had transferred,
literally, one hundred and forty-two and a half pages; and they
proved a'sale by the defendant of five hundred copies of his
work.
The counsel for the defendant then prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows.
1st. That John L. Wendell, and not the plaintiffs, was the
owner and proprietor of the copyright to the said first, second;
and fifth volumes of Cowen's, and to the said second volume
of Wendell's Reports, and that, by the statute;-no person but
the owner or proprietor could maintain said suit forb aid penalty,
and prayed the court so to instruct the jury. .But the court
decided that the suit might be maintained in the name of William Gould and David Banks, notwithstanding the facts set
forth in the affidavits of John L. Wendell i and so instructed the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

799

Backua v. Gould et al

jury, and refused to instruct said jury as requested by defendant's counsel; to which decision, instruction, and refusal, the
counsel for the defendant excepted.
2d. That the said books called the first, second, and fifth
vIlumes of Cowen's Reports, and second volume of Wendell's
Reports, are not the subject of a copyright, and the publisher
of them could acquire no exclusive right to the publication
thereof, and ther6fore could not be unlawfully infringed, and
prayed the court so to instruct the jury. -But the court decided,
that, although the opinions of the several courts, as contained
in said volumes of reports, were not the subjectof a copyright,
yet that the indexes of said volumes, and the statement of the
cases preceding the opinions, and the marginal notes, or synopsis of the case, at the head of each case, were the subject of a
copyright, for any infringement of which this action would lie,
and go charged and instructed the jury, and refused to charge
or instruct the jury as prayed by the defendant's counsel, to
which decision, charge, and instruction, and refusal, the defendant's counsel excepted.
3d. The defendant's counsel insisted, that if the said indexes were the subject of a copyright, yet it was the duty of
the proprietor thereof, who. obtained the copyright, to express,
in the title deposited, and published, (where he was not entitled
to a copyright of the whole book,) the*matter for which he
claimed such copyright; that he could not obtain a valid, copyright to such matter, which was a "verysmall portior of the
work, under a general claim to a copyright to the whole book,
and in this case he had not only not claimed any such copyright to the indexes, but merely a copyright to the report of
the cases, and therefore had not acquired any valid copyright to
such indexes, and-prayed the court so to in§truct the jury. But,
the court decided, that a copyright to the-whole book would
secure to the proprietors the exclusive right to such matter in
the book as was susceptible of a copyright, although such matter composed ever so small a portion of the book, and so instructed the jury, and refused to instruct said jury as requested
by the counsel for the said defendant; to which decision, instruction, and refusal, the counsel for the defendant excepted.
4th. The counsel for the defendant also insisted, that the
plaintiffs having obtained a copyright purporting to be for the
whole book, when they were only entitled to a copyright for a
very small portion of the matter contained in such book, such
copyright was wholly void, and. no action would lie for any
infringement of it, and prayed the court so to instruct the .jury.
But the court decided that such copyright wbuld, and did,.
secure to the plaintiffs the exclusive right to such matter in

800

SUPREME COURT.
Backus v. Gould ei al.

said book, whether it were more or- less, as he was entitled to
obtain- a .copyright for, and that said copyright was not void,
and that this action would lie for an infringement or pirating of
any part of the matter in said books for which the plaintiffs
were entitled to obtain a.copyright, and so instructed the jury,
and refused-to instruct the jury as prayed by defendant's counsel; to which decision, instruction, and refusal, the defendantrs
counsel excepted.
-5th. The counsel for the defendant also further insisted,-that
the publication of the said supplement, orthird volume of Johnson's Digest, was not a printing or publishing of the said first,
second, and fifth volumes of Cowen's Reports, and second volume of Wendell's Reports, of which the said plaintiffs claimed
t&have the copyright, within the section of either of the acts
of Congress giving said penalty. That said penal sections of
said acts were to be construed strictly, and did not impose any
penalty for printing or publishing, a smAll portion of the matter
for which a copyright was obtained; that, by the terms of the
statute, the penalty was only inflicted for an unauthorized prinfing, reprinting, or publishing, &c., a copy or copies'of the whole
of the map, chart, book or books, for which the copyright had
been obtained, and that for such printing, reprinting, or pub:
lishing any smaller portion than the whole, this action could
not be sustained, and prayed the court so to instruct the jury.
But the court decided, that an action for the penalty, given by
the penal section of the act. would lie for the'printing, reprinting,
or publishing by the defendant of any part or portion of' the
matter in .said first, second, and fifth volumes of Cowen,'s Reports, and second volume of Wendell's Reports, to which the
plaintiffs were entitled to a copyright, and so iistructed the
jury, and refused to inistruct the jury as prayed by the defendant's counsel; to which decision, instruction, and refusal, the
counsel for the defendant excepted.
6th. The defendant's .counsel also -insisted that the offence
for the which the penalty sued for *as ihflicted by the act of
Congress was in the nature of -a criminal offence; that the
penalty was inflicted by the statute, in part, s a punishment
for a criminal offence, and in part as a punishment for a tortuous, if not a criminal, invasion of private property, and that the
action was local; "and that the act ,or offence far which this
action was brought was committed in the State of Pennsylvania, and therefore out of the jurisdiction of this court, and consequently the present action could not be sustained, and prayed
the court, so to instruct -the jury. But the court decided that
the action could be sustained in any State -of the Union, and so
charged the jury, and refured to instruct the jury as prayed by

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

801

Backus v. Gould et al.

the defendant's counsel;. to which decision, charge, and refusal,
the defendant's counsel excepted.
7th. The counsel for the defendant also insisted, that the
publication by the defendant of a bone fide digest of the first,
second, and fifth volumes of Cowen's Reports, and second volume of Wendell's Reports, was not an infringement of the
copyright of the plaintiffs to said books; it was a benefit, and
not an injury, to those books; and prayed the court so to instruct the jury, that if they found, from the evidence in the
case, that the supplement, or third volume of Johnson's Digest,
published by the said defendant, was a bona fide digest of the
decisions of the cases contained in said volumes, and was published by the defendant in good faith, and -not for the purpose
of furnishing to the public the matter contained in said volumes in a cheaper form or for a less price than those volumes
were sold for; and that said digest was, in fact, a benefit instead of an injury to said volumes, and would promote the sales
thereof; that then said publication was no infringement of the
plaintiffs' said copyright, and this action could'not be sustained,
and the defendant would be entitled to their verdict. But the
court refused so to idstruct the jury; but did charge hud instruct the jury, that if the defendant had transferred to his said
digest any part-of the matter contained in the indexes of said
first, second, and fifth volumes of Cowen's Reports, or second
volume of Wendell's Reports, and thus availed himself of the
labor of others contained in books of which the plaintiffs held
the copyright, the plaintiffs were entitled to their verdict ; to
which refusal, and charge, and instruction, the defendant's
counsel excepted.
8th. The counsel for the defendant also insisted, that from
the very nature of the work published, the same idea contained
in the indexes to said volumes of reports, if correctly, stated in
.said indexes, must necessarily be stated in the digest published
by defendant; and if published in English, substantially the
same words must be used; and if the work was a bonO fide digest, and not'an evasion for the purpose of furnishing the public with the work in a cheaper form than the original, the
publication of said digest by the defendant could not be deemed
an invasion of*the plaintiffs' copyright, unless the matter ii said
indexes had been literally transferred to the defendant's digest,
and prayed the court so to instruct the jury. But -the court
refused so to instruct the jury, but instructed them, that if the
defendant had transferred to the said digest, publishediby him,
any part of matter- contained in the indexes to said first, second,
and fifth volumes of Cowen's Reports, and second volume of
Wendell's Reports, it was an invasion .ofthe plaintiffs' said

802

SUPREME" COURT.
Backus v. Gouid.et al.

copyright, for which this action would lie; to which refusal

and instruction the counsel for the defendant excepied.
9th. In regard to the amount of the penalty to be recovered,
the defendant's counsel insisted that.the plaintiffs could only recover fifty cents for every sheet of the matter transferred from
said index to first, second, and fifth volumes of Cowens Reports,
and second volume of Wendell's, to the said digest of said defendant, as had been proved to 'have been found in his possession,.
either printing or printed, published or exposed for sale; and that
there was no legal.proof that any such sheets of said matter had
been so found in said defendant's possession; and prayed the court
so to instruct the jury. But the counsel for plaintiffs insisted thit
they were entitled to recover fifty cents for every sheet of such
matter which had been published, or procured to be published,
by the defendant, whether the same were proved to have been
found in the defendant's possession or not ; and so the court
decided and instructed the jury, and refused to instruct the jury
as prayed by the counsel for the defendant; to which decision
and instruction, and refusal to instruct, the defendant's counsel'
excepted. *
- And with such charge and instruction, the court submitted
the cause to the jury, who, under such decisions, charge, and
instruction, found a verdict for the plaintiffs for $ 2,069.75
debt, and six cents costs:
Upon all these exceptions the case came up to this court.
They were all fully argued, by Mr. James Bayard and Mr.
Joseph R. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in errcr, and Mr. Wendell, for the defendants in error.
The arguments upon all thb points, except the one upon
which the decision of the court turned, are omitted. The
views expressed by Mr. Bayard "were illustrated and enforced
by Mr. Ingersoll,in his reply to Mr. Wendell.
Mr. Bayard said, that, before entering upon the argument,
it was right, as well in justice to His Honor the District Judge
(Conkliug) before whom the case was tried, as to prevent any
prejudice to the case from an apparent decision by the court
below,.to state the circumstances under which the case comes
before this.cQurt.
This case, with another, embracing precisely the same questions, (which- it is agreed shall abide the event of this,) came on
to' be tiied before His Honor, Judge Conkling, who held the
Circuit Court at Albany, in.October, 1843, in the absence of
the Circuit Judge, (the late Mr. Justice Thompson,) who was
absent from sickness. In order to take a verdict which should
determine the facts, in the case, and fix the amount of the

JANU-AIRY

TERM, 1849.

803

Back-s v. Gould et al.

penalty, if any had been incurred, the points of law were
stated by counsel, and ruled by the judge without argument,
with the understanding that they were to be argued before
a full court, when Judge Thompson should be able to sit.
*His continued indisposition, which at last terminated in his
death, prevented this from being done; and in July, 1845f judgment was entered upon the verdict, by order of plaintiffs'
attorney, without argument. And this writ of error was suedout to bring the record into this court, where the case is really
now to ie. decided for the 'first time.
(Mr. Bayard then proceeded to argue the several points,,
until he came to the ninth prayer to the court below.)
. Again, by the express words of the act, the offender is to
forfeit and pay fifty cents only "for every such sheet which.
may be found in his possession."
This limitation has been totally disregarded by the learned
judge of the Circuit Court, who adopted the views of the
counsel for the plaintiffs, who "insisted that they were entitled
to recover fifty cents for every sheet of such matter which had
been published, or procured to be published, by the defedtdant,
whether the same were proved to have been found in the defendant's possession or rot," and so decided and instructed the

jury.
This appears to be a most manifest disregard of the terms of
the statute, in order to give what the judge seems to have considered an equitable construction, making it extend to a case
clearly beyond its terms, which is a mode of construction
altogether inadmissible in the case of a peial statute.
The reason of this limZ ation of the penalty may not be
very clear; but the words of'the statute are plain, and when
this is the case, there is no room for equitable construction in
any statute, but especially in a penal one.
But it might not be difficult, if it were necessary, to find
reasons for the limitation.
1st. Congress did not intend that an author should lie by
during the two years allowed for bringing his action, .permitting another to publish and vend his work during that time,
and then recover fifty cents for every sheet so published.
This would be laying a trap for his ruin, as I have shown
that the penalty upon an ordinary edition might exceed $15,000;
and if it were a popular work, several such editions might 'be
disposed of in the course of, two years.
2d. But for this limitation, several penalties might be incurred by several different persons on account of the same sheets.
The penalty is to be inflicted upon "any person who shall
.print, publish, or -import, or cause to be printdd, publish

804

SUPREME COURT.
Backus v. Gould. et al.

imported, any copy, &c.,-without consent of thd owner, or
who shall (knowing the same to be so printed or imported)
publish, sell, or cause to be published, sold, or exposed to sale,
any copy," &c.
Not only, therefore, the publisher, but the printer, and every
bookseller who sells a copy, may be liable to this penalty.
Now, upon the principle adopted by, the court. below, the
penalty is incurred by the act of publication, printing, or selling, and the amount is to be fixed by the number of copies
published, printed, or sold, without regard to where they may
be-found. In case, therefore, of an edition of such a work, the
pbblisher who has caused it to be printed, the printer who has
actually printed it, the bookseller in whose store the whole
edition has been placed for sale, and every bookseller to -whom
he has sent a part of it for sale, may be liable to the penalty
of fifty cents for the same identical sheets. This could never
have been intended.
3d. Again, it might be that a person who .had unintentionally violated a copyright by the publication of a book
might, upon discovering that his publication was illegal, destroy
the whole edition, and so relieve himself from the penalty.
But 'according to the decision of the Circuit Court, he would
still remain liable. Nay, if he were even to give the whole
edition to the author of the protected work, he would still, on
the principle of this decision, remain liable to this penalty.
These are some of the reasons which' might be given for this
limitation of the penalty; but whatever the reasons may have
been, the words are plain, and measure the amount of the penalty by the number of sheets "found in defendant's possession."
If the intention of the legislature was what the Circuit Court
held it to have been, it would have been perfectly easy and
most obviously proper to have expressed that intention, either
by omitting the words, "which may be found in his possession," or by adding after the word "sale," in the next line,
the words, "or which he may have sold, or caused to be sold" ;
either of which, particularly the former, would have been the
simple and natural mode of expressing the intention contended
for by the plaintiffs.
Accordingly we find, that in the British statutes on copyright, (of which there have been several,) there has been a
change in this particular; and when the amount of the penalty
was not intended to be measured by the number of books or
sheets found in defendant's possession, it has been so expressed.
The first statute on this subject (from which all the subsequent ones, both in England and in this country, have ;been
taken) was the statute S Ann, c. 19, (1710,) which gives to

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

805

Backus v. Gould et al.

authors and their assigns the sole right of printing, publishing,
and vending their books for fourteen years, with the right of
renewal for fourteen years longer if the authors are living at
the expiration of the first term. And the first section provides,
that if any other person shall print, reprint, &c., any such book
or books, without the consent of the author or his assignee,
"then such offender or offenders shall forfeit such book or
books, and all and every sheet or sheets, being part of such
book or books, to the proprietor or proprietors of the copyright
thereof, who shall forthwith damask and make waste-paper of
them ; and further, that every shch offender or offenders shall
forfeit one penny for every sheet which shall be found in his,
her, or their custody either printed or. printing, published, or
exposed to sale, contrary to the true intent and meaning of
this act.", Here we have the same limitation as in our act of
Congress.
Next came the statute 12 Geo. II., c. 36, which was passed
for the purpose of "prohibiting the importation of books
reprinted abroad, and first composed or written and printed in
Great Britain."
The first section of this starute, after prohibiting the importation for sale of books first written or printed in England, directs the forfeiture of the books-so imported, to be damasked or
made waste-paper of, as in.the former statute, and then adds,
"And further, that every such offender or offenders shall forfeit
the sum of five. pounds, and double the value of every, book
which he or they shall so import or bring into this kingdom,
or shall knowingly sell, publish, or expose to sale, or cause to
be sold, published, or exposed to sale, contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act."
Here we have the penalty not limited to the books found
in the offender's custody or possession, but, extended to all the
books imported, sold, or exposed to sale contrary to the provis-ions of the statute.
The next statute was -that of 15 Geo. III., c. 53,. which was
"An act for enabling the two universities in England, the four
universities in Scotland, and the several colleges of Eton,
Westminster, and Winchester, to hold in perpetuity their copy-right in books given or bequeathed" to them, &c.
The"first section of this act secures to the said universities and
colleges the. perpetual copyight in'books given or bequeathed
to them. The second section provides, that if any person shall
print, reprint, or import any such book or'books, he or they shall
forfeit the same, and every sheet thereof, to be damasked or
made waste-paper df. "And, further, that such offender or
offenders shall forfeit one penny for every sheet which shall be
VOL. V1.

68

806

SUPREM E COURT.
Backus v.. Gould et al.

found in his, her, or their custody, either printing- or printed,
published, or exposed to sale, contrary to the true intent and.
meaning of this act." Here we have the penalty limited to
the. sheets found in the custody of the offender.
The next was the statute 41 Geo. III., c. 107, entitled "An
-act for the further encouragement of learning in the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, by securing the copies
and copyright of printed books to the authors of such books,
or their assigns, for the time herein mentioned."
This act is remarkable in several particulars, and especially
with'reference to the point now under consideration, that it has,
in different sections, both the kinds of penalty; viz. one limited
by the sheets found in the custody of the offender, and the other
measured by the whole number of books imported. By the first
section, after reciting that "it is expedient that further protection. should be afforded to the authors" of books," &c.. the sole
right of printing and reprinting is given to the author, &c., for
fourteen years, with' the right of renewal for another term of
fourteen years, as .before. . Then it is'enacted, that if any one
violates this right, the offender or offenders shall be liable to a
special action on the case, at the suit of the proprietor of the
copyright, in'which damages may be recovered! It is. further
enacted, that the offender shall forfeit such book or books, and,
all and every sheet .and sheets, being part thereof, t.o be damasked, as before. " "And all and every such offender and offenders shall also forfeit the sum of threepence for every sheet which
shall be found in his oi their custody, either printed or printing,
or published, or exposed to sale, contrary to the true intent and
meaning of this act."
After several other provisions, not material to the present
question, we come to the seventh section, which forbids the
importation for sale of books first printed in the United Kingdom and afterwards reprinted abroad.. If any person shall import such book contrary to this act, "then every such book
shall'be forfeited, and may be seized by any officer of the customs, .and the same shall be forthwith made waste-paper."'
*And all and every person so offending, upon conviction thereof, shall also, foi every such offence, forfeit the sum of ten
pounds, and double the value of each and every copy of such
book or books which he, she, or they shall so import or bring,
or cause to be imported or brought, into any part of the said
United Kingdom."
Here was a statute intended to give "farther protection" to
authors, which it does by, - 1st, extending the sole right of
authors, &c., to the whole of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland; 2d, giving a special action, on the case to

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

807

Backus v. Gould et al.

proprietors of copyrights; 3d, increasing the penalty on re,printing, &c., from one penny to threepence; 4th, giving to.
officers of the customs the right, and making it their duty, to
seize and destroy any books imported in violatibn of the act;
5th, increasing the penalty on importing such books from five
to ten pounds. But the court will observe, that although this
statute was intended.to increase the protection to copyright,
and although the legislature had fully in view the two different
modes of measuring the penalty, imposing one in the first section and the other in the seventh, yet they made .no alteration
in this respect with regard to books reprinted in the kingdom,
but adhered to the original limitation, contained in the statute
of Ann, only increasing the penalty from one penny to threepence, while they follow the statute of 12 Geo. II. in extending the penalty on imported books to all books imported.
The next act shows the intention of the legislature still more
clearly. That was the statute 54 Geo. III., c. 156, entitled
"An act to amend the several acts for the encouragement of
learning, by ecuring the copies and copyright of printed books
to the authors of such books or their assigns."
The fourth: section of this act extends the term of copyright
to twenty-eight years, (with a subsequent extension, in section
ninth, for the life of the author, if living at the expiration of
the twenty-eight years,) gives the special action on the case for
violation of the copyright, directs the forfeiture of every book
printed, &c., in violation of the copyright, to be damasked, as
before, and then provides, that "all and every such offender
and offenders shall also forfeit the sum of threepence for every
sheet thereof, either printed or printing, or published, or exposed
to sale, contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act.',
Here the linitation to sheets found in the custody of the
offender is omitted, - and this is particularly important, as I
will show presently when I come'to examine the acts of Congress on this subject.
I have been thus particular in the examination of these British statutes, because the'acts of Congress have been evidently
taken from them, copying the very-words in many instances.
And in the absence of decided cases, putting a judicial construction upon these acts, it is important to learn the sense of the
legislature, as to the true meaning of the terms used, from the
changes which have been made from time to time; and it is
very evident, from this examination, that where the legislature
intended to extend the penalty beyond the books or sheets
found in the custody of the offender, they have said so in such
a way as to leave no doubt about it; as, first, in the case of
importation of protected books, the offender forfeits double the

-

808

SUPREME COURT.
-Backus v. Gould et al.

value of every book imported, and, finally, in 1814, and not
till then, in case of reprinting in England, the offender shall,
forfeit threepence for every sheet either printed or printing, or
published, or exposed to sale, contrary to the act.
In the last British statute on this subject, 5 & 6 Vict., c. 45,
which repeals the former acts, and forms a complete system of
copyright law, the penalty of pecuniary forfeiture is omitted
altogether - and the proprietor of a copyright has a 'special
action on the case for damages, and a right to maintain detinue c
or trover for the pirated copies.
Now let us turn to the acts of Congress on this subject.
The first was the act of the 31st of'May, 1790, which gives to.
the author or authors of any map, chart, book, or books, (,being
citizens of the United States,) and their executors, administrators, and assigns, the sole right to print, reprint, publish, and
vend the same for the term of fourteen years, with the right
of renewal by the author, if living, for another term of fourteen years.
The third section provides the penalty for violating this copyright, viz. : - 1st. Forfeiture of every copy of the book, &c.,
wrongfully printed, to be destroyed, &c.; 2d. "And every such
offender add offenders shall Also forfeit and pay the sum of fifty
cents for every sheet which shall be found in his or their possession, either printed or printing, published, imported, or exposed to sale, contrary to the true intent and meaning of this
act.)
The court will observe that these provisions of this act were
taken from the British statutes then in existence. The same
'term of duration, -fourteen years, with the'right of renewal
for fourteen years more if the author were living. The same
penalty, -forfeiture of books to be destroyed, and payment of
a sum of money for every sheet found in the offender's possession. The difference in this part of the act being, that Congress uses the word Ipossession" instead of "custody," and
'fixes the penalty at fifty cents instead of threepence, thus making this act much more severe than the British statutes, as I
remarked in a former part of my argument.
.,Then we come to the act*.of February 3, 1831, under which
this action is brought; for it repeals the previous acts. This
act e:itends the term of copyright to twenty4ight years, with
the right, of renewal for fourteen years more by the author, if
living, and then, after providing the mode of securing the copyright by deposit of title-page, and giving notice by publication,
the sixth section provides the penalty" which is, as in the
former act, forfeiture of every copy of the book, but not to
be destroyed, and "fifty cents for every sheet which may be

JANUARY TERM,

1849.

809

Backus v. Gould et al.

found in his possession, either printed or printing, published,
imported, or exposed to sale, contrary to the intent of this act."
Now the court .will observe that this act of Congress was
passed sixteen years after the statute 54 Geo. III.,.c. 156. And
there can be no doubt that this statute was before the franiers
of the act of Congress, not only from the general presumption
that Congress would be acquainted with an-act of Parliament
on the same subject passed sixteen years before, but from their
adopting some of its provisions,- such as the extended term of
.twenty-eight years. And yet Congress carefully adheres to
the old penalty, limiting it to the sheets found in the offender's
possession, although they must have seen the alteration made
in the British statute, and known that the effect would be to
extend the penalty to all sheets printed or imported. Perhaps
Congress thought the penalty of fifty cents a sheet was so
large, that it ought to be limited to the sheets found in defendant's possession. Perhaps it was intended to excite the
diligence of the informer to commence his action as soon as
the work was published, and before it passed out of the pos-session of the publisher; or, more probably, the penalty thus
limited was intended to operate as a restraint upon booksellers
'who might take the work for sale, and who would be subject
to the penalty for the sheets found in their possession. But
whatever may have been the reason, the words of the act of
Congress are distinct and plain.
The legislature has prescribed a certain penalty, to be measured by a standard distinctly given. The British Parliament
saw proper to alter and enlarge that penalty-for the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. But the Congress of
the United States, when their attention was specially called to
the subject, have refused to adopt this alteration. They have adhered to the old penalty, and the courts of the United States
will not make the alteration.
If this construction is correct, as I trust the court W¢ill agree
with us in thinking it to be, it is very evident that the instruction given by the court, and the verdict found by the jury in
this case under the direction of the district judge, impose a
penalty totally different from that prescribed by the law,- for
not a single sheet of this work was found to be in the possession of the defendant;' and the judgment upon it must therefore be reversed.
Mr. Wendell.
It is said that the penalty of fifty cents is limited to the
sheets found in 'the possession of the defendant, though the
counsel candidly admitted it to be difficult to discern the reason
68*

810

SUPREME COURT
Backus v. Gould et al.

of that liniitation.. He,however, suggested that it might have
'been on account of the enormous penalty which would be imposed in the case. of the reprint of a whole volume, and that it
might have been to induce the bringing of an action forthwith,
before the books had passed into the hands of innocent holders,
and thus save them from prosecution. It was also said, that,*
although in the later acts, of the Parliainent of England upon
the subject of copyright, the words '.sheets found in the custofly of the offender" are omitted, the- similar words contained
in our original act upon the subject are still continued in the
last act of Congress; from which it was inferred, that these
words contained some peculiar meaning, which, with us, was
'intended to be preserved. The answers to which suggestions
-are,--:
1st, that the penalty will be equally enormous whether the
;action be broughtforthwith or at the end of' a year; 2d, that
innocent holders of the pirated work are not exposed, for the
penalty reaches .only those :vho knowingly sell; and,-3d, the
change of phraseology in the acts of Parliameni shows that
these words were considered mere matter of form, as "sheets
printing and printed," the only state of things to which the
words could attach, are retained in the act.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the' court.
This cause is brought here by: a writ of error to the Circuit
C6urt of the United States for the Northern District of New'
York.
An action of debt was brought by .Gould and Banks to recover certain penalties alleged to have been incurred by the
invasion of the copyright of the plaintiffs in twelve volumes
of law reports, to wit, riine'volumes of. Cowen's Reports and
three of Wen'dell's, by the publication of a Digest as a supplement or third. volume of Johnson's 'Digest. The defendant
pleaded nil debit.
On the trial, the plaintiffs proved themselves entitled to the
copyright of the first, second, and fifth volumes of Cowen's
Reports, and of the second volume of Wendell's Reports; and
that from the above volumes the defendant had transferred,
literally, one hundred and forty-two and a half pages; and
they proved a sale by the defendant of five hundred copies of
his work.
The -injury complained of consisted in copying from the
above reports the marginal notes or. indexes of the reporter,
and publishing them in the Digest.- From the 'first volume of
Cowen's Reports forty pages were. copied, from the second volume twenty-nine, from -the fifth fifty-foar pages, and from the
second volume of Wendell's Reports nineteen and a half pages

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

s11

Backus v. Gould et'aL

were copied, which included the whole of the indexes of that
volume except eight and a half pages. The change in the
phraseology was so great in these pages that the witness did
not consider them as having*been transferred to the'Digest."
This is a qus tam action, and was brought under the sixth
section of the act of 1831, entitled "An act to 'amend the several acts respecting copyrights."
Before the Circuit Court many points of law were raised, andinstructions prayed, on the facts in evidence; but as the decision will turn upon the construction of the -above section,
under the ninth prayer of the defendant, the other questions
will not be considered.
The defendant's counsel insisted "that the plaintiffs could
only recover- fifty cents for every sheet of the matter transferred
from s.id index to the first, second, and 'fifth volumes of
Cowen's Reports, and the second volume of Wendell's, to the
said Digest of said defendant, as had been proved to have been
found in his possession, either printing or.printed,- published, or
exposed for sale; and that there was no legal proof .that any
such sheets of said matter had been so found in said defendant's possession, and prayed the court so to instruct the jury2'
"But the counsel for plaintiffs insisted thait they were entitled to recover fifty cents for every sheet of such matter
which had been published, or procured to be published, by the
defendant, whether the same were proved to have been found
in the defendant's possession or not ; 'and so the court decided
and instructed the jury." And they -found a verdict for plaintiffs for "two thousand sixty-nine dollars and: seventy-five cents
debt, and six cents costs."
The sixth section provides, that, if any person, within the
term for which a copyright has been secured, shall print, publish, or import, &c., sell, or expose to sale, or cause to be published, sold, or exposed to sale, any copy of such"book, without
consent in writing, such offender shall forfeit eveiy copy of such
book to the person legally entitled to the6'copyright thereof;
"and shall also forfeit and pay fifty cents for every such sheet
which may be found in his possession, either printed or printing, published, imported, or exposed to sale, contrary to the
intent of this Act ? '
This p~nalty of fifty cents on each sheet, whether printed
or being printed, or published, or exposed to sale, is limited to
the sheets in possession of the defendant. But under the instruction of the court, a verdict was rendered for every sheet
which the defendant had published or procured to be published.
As thi§ is a penal section, it must be construed strictly.
Under it, every copy of a book published without the consent

812

SUPREME COURT.
Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al.

of the person having the copyright is forfeited, in addition to
the penalty -of fifty cents on each sheet in his possession.
The declaration seems not to have been drawn with the view
of enforcing any other penalty than that which is imposed for
found in the possession of the defendant.
sheet
each
The
judgment
of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United -States for the
Northern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be,and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Courtr with directions to award a venire facias de
n0V0.

JONATHAN W. NESIITH AID THOMAS NESaITH, COMXPLAINANTS, V.
THOMAs C. SHELDON, HORACE H COISTOcK, DAVID FRENCH, WILLIAM E. PETERS, JAMIES FORTON, ATTA E. MATHER, HENRY B.
HOLBROOK, SAIUEL P. MEAD, FRANCIS E. ELDRED, PHEBE ANN
DEAN , CULLEN BROWN, AND CHARLES H. STEWART, RESPONDENTS.
The legislature of Michigan passed an act on the 15th March, 1837, entitled "An
act to organize and regulate banking associations,"' and on the 30th of December, 1837, an act to amend the former act. By the first, any persons were allowed
to form associations for the purposes of banking upon'the terms specified in the
law; and by the second, the stockholders were made liable, in their individual
character, under certain circumstances, for the debts of the association. -,
The associations formed under these acts are corporations within the meaning of the
constitution of Michigan, and the actb are unconstitutional and void.
The second §ection of the twelfth article of the constitution forbidding the legislature from "psssing any act of incorporation unless with the assent of at least two
thirds of each house," the judgment of the legislature is required to be exercised
upon the propriety of creating each particular corporation, and two thirds of each
house must sanction and approve each individual charter.
The Supreme Court of the State of fichigan has so construed its constitution, and it
is the established doctrine of this court, that it will adopt and follow the decisilns
of t&.e State courts in the construction of their own statutes where that construction has been settled by the decision of their highest judicial tribunal.

THis case was formerly before this court, on a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court for
the District of Michigan. Its facts and the reasons for its dismissal will be found in 6 Howard, 41.
It now came up upon the following certificate of division in
opinion.

