JANUARY TERM, 1849.

595

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

JAcoB HUGG AND JOHN M. BANDEL, PLAINTIFFS,

V. TE AUGUSTA
INSURA-NCE AND BANKING COMPANY OF THE CITY OF AUGUSTA.

In an insurance upon freight, there is no total loss of a memorandum article as long
as the goods have not lost their original character, but remain in specie, and in
that condition are capable of beipg shipped to their destined port, no matter what
may be the extent of the damage.
If,however, the articles are not capable of being carried,in specie, to the port of destination, arising from danger to the health of the crew or to the safety of the vessel; or the public authorities at the port of distress order the articles to be thrown
overboard, from fear of disease, there would be a total loss.
In construing the contract of insurance upon freight, the interest of the insured, or
of the underwriters of the cargo, is not considered. Therefore, if the vessel is in a
condition to carry on the cargo to the port of destination, or another vessel can be
procured for that purpose, it is the duty of the owner of the vessel to carry it on,
although it may be for the interest of the insured and insurers of the cargo to sell
it at the port of distress.
If so sold, the insured cannot recover for a total loss of freight.
But although it is the duty of the owner of the vessel, either to repair his own or to
procure another at the port of distress to carry on the cargo, yet, if it should be
made to appear that the repairs or procurement of another vessel would necessarily produce such a retardation of the voyagd as would, in all probability, occasion
a destruction of the article, in specie, before it could arrive at the port of destination, or, from its damaged condition, it could not be reshipped in time, consistently with the health of the crew or safety of the vessel, or would not be in a fit
condition, from pestilential effluvia or otherwise, to be carried on, it then became
the duty of the master to sell the goods for the benefit of whom it might concern.
sargaret Hugg, at and from
A policy of insurance upon "freight of the bark M
Baltimore to Rio Janeiro and back to Havana or Matanzas, or a port in the
United States, to the amount of $ 5,000, upon all lawful goods, &c., beginning the
adventure upon the said freight from and immediately following the lading
thereof aforesaid at Baltimore, and continuing the same until the said goods,
wares, and merchandise shall be safely landed at the port aforesaid," upon which
a greater premium was paid than was usual for the outward voyage alone, must
not be construed as a policy upon the round voyage.
The insurers were, therefore, not entitled to a deduction for the outward freight.

THis case came up, on a certificate of division, from the
Circuit Court-of the United States for the District of Maryland.
The Reporter finds the following statement prefixed to the
opinion of the court, as delivered by MIr. Justice Nelson.
This is an action upon a policy of insurance on the freight
of the bark Margaret Hugg, at and from Baltimore to Rio
Janeiro, and back to Havana or Matanzas, with liberty to
touch and stay at any intermediate port in case of stress of
weather, or for the purpose of transacting business. The
amount $ 5,000; premium, $ 158.25.
The policy contained the usual memorandum, enumerating
various articles warranted free-from average, and all others that
-were perishable in their own nature.
About four hundred tons of jerked 'beef were shipped on
board the vessel at Montevideo, which were to be delivered in
good order at the port 9f Matanzas or Havana to the con-

596

SUTPREME COURT.
Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

signees, they paying freight. The bill of lading was signed
the 25th of April, 1842.
The. vessel sailed from Montevideo on the.29th of April, and,
after being out some forty-seven days, encountered a storm,
and was driven on Gingerbread Ground, where she received
considerable damage; the rudder was broken and unshi=p4ed,
and as the extent of the damage could not be ascertained, it
was deemed prudent, on consultation with the captain of a
wrecking vessel and Bahama pilot, to go into Nassau for the
purpose of a survey and repairs. The wind was fair for that
port, but strong ahead in the direction of Matanzaq. The vessel was taken in charge of one of the wreckers, and arrived at
Nassau on the second day, about the,20th of June, and grounded on the bar while entering the harbour, and under the
charge of the king's pilot, and sustained a good deal additional
damage.
A part of the beef-had been thrown overboard to lighten the
vessel while on the Gingerbread'Ground; and a much, larger
quantity while on the bar at Nassau. She had leaked while
on the ground in the former place, so -that it was neces'sary to
work the pumps every half hour; and at the latter, there was
seven or eight feet of water in the hold, with some fourteen
men.at the pumps.
The beef was so much damaged by the sea-water that the
board of health at Nassau refused to allow but about one hundred and fifty tons to be landed. The rest was ordered to be
carried outside the bar, and thrown into the sea, for fearof disease.; it was wet and very much heated, some of it so changed
as to become .green, and all emitting an offensive stench. - The
portion allowed to be landed was wet and heated, and not in a
fit condition to be shipped; and the board of health recommended to the authorities, that it' should be. removed as soon
as conveniently could be.
The vessel was surveyed after the cargo was discharged, and
it was found that the rudder was entirely broken off, the forefoot gone, and the keel greatly shattered and damaged; and it
appears to be conceded that she could not have been repaired
at that poit so as to have carried on the cargo, and that, if she
could, it would have cost more than half her value. She was
repaired sufficiently to bring her home in ballast. It also appears that there was no vessel in port that could be procured to
forward on the remaining cargo, even if it had been ina condition to be shipped.
T
he salvors libelled the vessel and cargo for salvage services
in the 'Vice-Admiralty Court of the Bahamas on the 30th of
June, 1842, to which the master put in an answer on the 7th

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

597

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

of July, insisting that the libellants were entitled to compensation for pilotage only, and not for salvage.
The court, on the 18th of July, decreed $2J400 salvage to
the libellants, for services rendered to the vessel and cargo.
Appraisers of the vessel and cargo taken on shore had been
previously appointed; and, on an examination of'the cargo, it
was found to be so much damaged, and in such a condition,
that they advised an immediate sale, as it was deteriorating in
value daily.
The master assented to a sale, accordingly, which was ordered by the court on his application on the 1st of July. The
nett proceeds amounted to $2,664.92. The time occupied in
.an ordinary voyage from Nassau to Matanzas is three days, and
to Baltimore, ten.
It was proved by several masters of vessels, that the navigation at the place where the Margaret Hugg first grounded, and
was visited by the pilots, was very hazardous, and that, under
similar circumstafices, they would have considered it their duty
to have carried their vessel into the harbour at Nassau.
The regular premium for insurance of freight of the cargo
covered by the policy for the outward voyage was about one
and one eighth per cent.
Upon this state of facts appearing at- the-trial, the following
questiofis were raised, and presented to the court, viz. 1. It being admitted that the loss is to be adjusted according
to the terms of te Baltimore Insurance Company, if the jury
find that jerked beef was a perishable article within the meaning of the policy, are the defendants liable as for a total loss
of freight, unless the entire cargo was so totally destroyed that
no part of it could have beei earied to the port of destination
even in a deteriorated and valueless condition?
2. If the jury find that, from the condition of that portion
of the cargo sold at Nassau (occasioned by the disasters stated
in the testimony), it was for the interest of the insured and
insurers upon the cargo that it should be so 'sold, and not transported t- Matanzas, is the plaintiff entitled to recoi-ei for a
total loss of freight, provided his oWn vessel could have been
repaired in a reasonable time, so as to perform the voyage in
safety, or he could have procured another vessel, and have
transmitted to the port of destination, in its deteriorated state,
th3 portion sold at Nassau? And
3. Assuming thai; the plaintiff is entitled to recover, is the
policy on the amount mentioned for one entire voyage round,
from Baltimore out and home again? and Are th% defendants
entitled to deduct from the amount insured the freight earnes
in the voyage from Baltimore to Rio upon the outward'cargo?

598

SUIPREME COURT.
Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

The cause was argued by Mr. Mayer and M;.Nelson, for
the plaintiffs, and Mr. David Stewart and Mr. Johnson, for
the defendants. The following is a very brief sketch of the
respective arguments.
:Mr. Mayer, for the plaintiffs.
The premium was double what would, have been demanded for half the voyage. Some of the beef was thrown
out as spoiled, the rest landed, somewhat injured. Then
came a libel for salvage, and a decree for it. No funds existing to pay it or make the necessary repairs with, a sale
was ordered. We abandoned, and now claim for a total
loss. The policy. is a blank cargo policy, filled up with an
insurance on freight. Does the claim arise where the articles are not entirely lost? In England the courts of -Common
Pleas and King's Bench'have decided differedtly. 3 Bos. &
Pul. 474; Marshall on Ins. 227, 565; 2 Maule & §elw. 247;
that the articles, thouf h not lost, might be deemed extinct.
32 Com. Law Rep. 115; 1 Wheaton, 219, 225,-case of
memorandum articles; 2 Phillips on" Insurance, 485,- all the
decisions cited; 6 Cowen, 270.
The law was settled in England by the case of Roux v.
Salvador, 3 Bing. N: 0. 266; S. 0., 1 Bing. 526; and there
is nbthing contradictory in the decisions of this court. The
case in 1 Wheaton depended on particular circumstances. If
the beef had to be thrown overboard for the sake of health, it
could not be considered any longer as beef for all commercial
purposes. If the voyage is broken up, there is an end -to
freight; and it was broken up here by the perils insured against.
There is no difference between memorandum and other articles,
when a total loss ensues. Marshall on Ins. 585; 12 East,
304; 15 East, 565; 6 Mass. 119, 318, where the cases are
cited; 1 Wheat. 219.
The vis major of the claim for salvage broke up the voyage
and 'destroyed. the property. The beef was in a fermenting
state. The condition of the vessel was hopeless. As to the
effect of vis major, 7 Com. Law Rep. 202.
Second question certified.
This involves the discretion'of -the captain. The owner of
the vessel is bound by his contract to carry the goods. If the
perils of the sea require a transshipment, it is his privilege and
duty to make it. But if there be a difficulty in obtaining a
vessel, the master is not bound to pay an excessive freight.
7 East, 44; 7 Corn. Lair Rep. 364, same as 3 Brod. & Bing.
97; 36 Com.Law Rep. 156, same as 9 Adolph. & Ellis, 314;
4 Johns..C1 '225; 7 Cowen, 584; 4 Wend. 54; 12 Johns. 107;
Abbott on 8 Xipp. 369, 461.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

599

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

But if the court should think that it was the duty of the'
master to transship, then I say that, if there was ground of
abandonment from vis major, the captain became the agent of
the insurers, and. they must be' responsible for his errors. 9
Johns. 28. If half the property is lost, it is not the duty of
the master to transship.
The captain is the agent of the adventure, and if the jury
justify him as to the vessel or cargo, his acts bind all parties.
5 Peters, 604; 1 Johns.'406. The exigency would have justified a prudent man in acting, as he did, if there had been no
insurance. He is to act for the general good, mindful of the
owners' and insurers.
3 Moore, 133, quoted in 2 Phillips,
268. Was not this a judicial sale? The judge ordered it,
not up6n the petition of the master, but as an order of the
court. The opposite party appeared, and did not object to it.
1 Wash. C. 0. 530.
The third question relates to the quantum of recovery.
The outward cargo belonged to the owners of the vessel, and
thus, in fact, no freight was earned. But we are charged with
a constructive freight. Suppose the owner could earn freight
from hinself, this is an open policy, and value must be proved.
There is no evidence to show that the value of the ouitward
freight was just half of the whole sum insured. It could, not
be a round voyage, because the owners sent out an adventure,
and only intended to earn freight on the return. In an open
policy, we have only to show- that we had that amount of interest when the loss occurred. We paid a premium, double of
what we would have been charged for the outward voyage
alone. It could not, therefore, have-been intended as a round
voyage. 3 Caines, 16; 7 Gill & Johns. 93; 12 Wheat.
383; 3 Wend. 283; 2 Wash. C. C. 89; 1 Rawle, 97; 33
Coin. Law.Rep. 124, or 3 Barn. & Adolph. 198; 4 Peck, 429;
3 Com. Law Rep. 480; 2 Starkie, 573.
Mr. Stewart, for the defendants.
It is proper that some omissions of the opposite counsel
should be supplied. In thi first place, the captain knew' that
he was insured; the answer to the libel says so. In the next
place, he could have proseuted his voyage. The answer to
the libel says, that "1without any assistance from Demeritt
and his party, he could have got the bark clear of the Gingerbread Ground, and could, without any other than the ordinary dangers of the sea, have proceeded in the prosecution of
their voyage." In the third place, the condition of the cargo
was not so bad. The report of the board of health, made on
the 29th of June, 1842, says, -that "the quantity of beef

600

SUPREME COURT.
Hugg et al. '. Augusta Insurance and .Banking Co.

which is housed in the store appears to the board to be in a
sound condition, and fit for the purpose for which it was
cured ." This was made on the 29th. On the 30th, the captain petitioned for a sale, which took place on the lst.of July.
In tie affidayit to support the motion for a sale, the Captain
says ",he had intended, previous to the commencement of the.
action, that the sale of such beef should take place in the early part 6f the present week." What became of the cargo?
Ih-fact, it went to the very port of destination. The captain
says, in his deposition, that Adderly "bought the beef with
the intention of shipping it to Matanzas." Strobel, the supercargo, says, "The vessel had no means of her own to make
the repairs with, but Mr. Starr, the agent of the underwriters,
offered to advance money for repairs upon b-6ttomry." The
libel for salvage was contested, and limited to pilotage, and yet
a sale took place.
As to the first question certified. The object of the policy
is to protect underwriters by excluding small losses. Partial
losses, therefore, are -not recoverable, as long as part of the cargo remains not liable at all. 3 Bos. & Pul. 478, does rnot impugn this doctrine, becaus the articles were thrown overboard
from necessity.
In Roux v. Salvador there was a special verdict, in which
the jutry found that the hides would have lost their character
from putrefaction. The court relied upon this. Of course
there was a total loss. The counsel then referred to the following cases. Park, 191, 185; 2 Maule & Selw. 371; 2
Com. Law Rep. 55, or 7 Taunton, 154; 4 Martin, N. S.
640; 16 East, 214; 1 Gaines, 196; 3 Caines, 108; 4 Johns.
139; 4 Wendell, 33; 7 Cranch, 415; 8 Cranch, 39; 3
Wash. C. C. 356; 1 Wheat. 59; 3 Mason, 49. From the
time of 1 Wheaton to 3 Mason, the question was not mooted, and wheri it was, it was only upon the authority of 15
East. 5 Meeson & Welsby explains 15 East -to have bqen
an insurance upon each parcel. But here a part of the beef
was good, and sold for fifty per cent. of its cost. From
this loss our contract exempts us. The assured warrant that
they will not charge, except for general average. The vessel
was within.three days' sail of Matanzas, and ifthe jury Eind
that beef was a perishable article, we cannot be liable.
The second question assumes that the vessel could have
been repaired, or that another vessel might have been obtained.
Could the act of the captain give the plaintiffs a right to recover in this action? The opposite counsel wish to make the
cargo a test of the rule respecting freight ; but the cargo is
nothing to us., The agency of the captain binds all parties

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

601

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

who are within the contract of indemnity, but not those who
are beyond it. . There was no necessity for a sale, if another
vessel could have been had: 1 Johns. 205; 3 Johns; 321;
9 Johns. 21; 2 Pick. 104; 23 Pick. 405; 10 Com. Law
Rep. 366. These cases show that, if the captain could transship, it was his duty to carry on the cargo. Thp expense
is nothing to us. It might have cogt half the freight.. 4
Wendell, 54.
On ihe third question, Mr. Stewart -cited and' commented
upon 20 Com. Law Rep. 342; 36 Com. Law Rep. 216.
11r. Johnson, on the same side.
As to the first question. Certain articles are inserted in the
memorandum, to guard against frauds upon the underwriters,
because no one could tell whether or not the losses arose from
the perils iiisurea against. For example, it is impossible to
say how far the injury to the beef proceeded from the perils of
the sea, or whether or not it would have been putrid, if there
had been no storms. Therefore we only insured against a total loss. The question assumes 'that the master could have
carried on the beef in his own or some other vessel,'-in a
valueless condition, it is true.' But does this make us liable ?
We may lay down these two propositions •1st. The case cited from Wheaton establishes, that, if a 'essel arrives at her port; the underwriters are not responsible, unless in case of general average.
2d. Where the vessel could go- on, the same ifle must be
applied as if she, had actually gone on. Otherwise, it is in
the power of the captain to convert no loss into a total loss.
The underwriters are placed completely in his power. In this
case, if the vessel had pursued her voyage, the underwriters
would not have been responsible. Originally, the doctrine was
more extensive updn our side than now, because it was held
that, if any article.existed at all, the insurers were discharged.
The case in 3 Bingham only corrects this in its vicious extent ; it only'makes the underwriters free, if the cargo arrives
consisting of the same articles which composed it before,
that is, if flour is still flour hides are still hides, &c. The
question of value is left out of view altogether. The question before us is, not whether the jury must find that the beef
had ceased 'to be beef or not, but only speaks of its value.
1 Wheaton, 219, decides this. It says that the consideration
of quantity or value is of no consequence. If, therefore, ever
so small a quantity of the article arrives, or.ever so much injured, the underwriters are not responsible.
The miaster's
duty was to go on. The case of Roux v. Salvador does not.
voL. V.
51

, 602

SUPREME COURT.
Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

justify the sale at Nassau. The hides in that case would have
lost their character as hides.
As td the second question. This assumes that the master
could have repaired his vessel. The question of cost, is not
involved. Was it not his duty to send on the cargo? ,If the
other side are right, it is always in the power of the assured
to bind us by stopping short, when we would not have been
responsible if the, cargo had been carried on. The agency of
the master. only begins when the. liability of the underwriters
is absolutely fixed.
The law is settled in England, New
York, Louisiana, and in this court.
If the cargo remains,
specifically, the underwriters cannot be held responsible for
a total loss upon memorandumn articles.
3 Caines,. 108;
1 Johns. 305; 3 Johns. 328; 14 Johns. 139, 143, 14#, 145;
23 Peck, 405-409, 412, 414-416; 4 Barn. & Cres. 366;
3 Kent's Com. 2.10, 212, 213; 36 Com. Law Rep. 157, or
9 Adolph. & Ellis, 314, cites the above from Kent, with ap
probation; 3 Mason, 429, 440; 16 East, 214, overrules '5East.
The owner of the cargo is bound to pay freight if the cargo
arrives, no matter how much injured it may be. On memorandum articles, the ujiderwriters are not responsible f6r any
thing but a total loss. The policy contains such a clause, and
no one, has a right to strike it out. But the question supposes
adiscretion to exist in the master, to act for the benefit of all
parties. But how can he do so when their interests are contradictory? If he could have gone on, then a loss of freight
has occurred, not from the perils of the sea, but from the conduct of the master. If he has acted for the benefit of the
owners of the cargo, that"is nothing to us. We only insured
that freight should be earned, not that it should be actually
received. It might have been for "the interest of the owner
of the- ship and the owner of'the cargo to terminate the voyage at Nassau. - But it was not for our intetest, and we cannot
be bound by the act.
Third question.- Was it a round voyage? We rely on
2 Starkie, 573; 3 Com. Law Rep. 408.
Mr. Nelson, for the plaintiffs, in reply and conclusion.
I admit that, if the loss was not total, we"cannot recover.
But the proposition is a -sur.prising one, which asserts that an
article can be totally valueless in point of fact, and yet not be
a total loss m point of law. The object of all contracts of. insurance is to pr~eserve property, and here its Value is admitted
to be entirely destroyed. There is no adjudged case -which
sanctions such a doctrine. I -speak not of the language used
by courts, but- of- points decided. It has never been before

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

603

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insuranceand Banking Co.

this court. We do not assert that a loss- of a part can be considered a total loss. In-7 Johns. Ch. 415, the loss of a part of the
hides was held to be-a partial loss. This is settled law in the
United States. Massachusetts has followed it. But it is not
our question. In 8 Cranch, 47, it is said that nothing short of
physical extipction or extinction in value will justify an abandonment of memorandum articles; but it is not -settled whether
extinction in value will be sufficient. 1 Wheaton, 219, is not
like our case. The vessel there did not put into any port of
distress, but arrived at her destination.
In the New York cases, the languiage of the judges is strong,
but the cases themselves are distinguishable from ours. (Mr.
Nelson here remarked upon the case of Griswold v. New York
Ins. Co., in 1 Johnson,-and again reported in 3 Johnson, and
also upon the case in 14 Johnson.)
These New York cases rest upon a dictum of Lord Mansfield,
which has. been overruled again and. again. (Mr. lelson then
examined all the cases in chronological order, viz.: -Park on
Insurance, 253; same book, 247; Cocking v. Fraser, 4 Doug.
295; 7 T. R. 218, -where
the first doubt of Cocking v.
Fraser was expressed by Lord Kenyofi, Park on Ins. 252;
Dyson v. Rowcroft, 3 -Bos. & Pul. 474, - where it is said that
Cocking v. Fraser is much shaken ; .15 East; 16'East, 214; 17
Com. Law Rep. 408, 409, or 9 Barn. & Cres. 411; and the case
of Roux v . Salvador, which came up twice, 27 Com. Law Rep.
481 or 1 Bing. N. C. 526, and 32 Com. Law Rep. 115; 5
Maule & Selw. 447.)
The English authorities appekr to settle the -point, that,.if the
value of an article is destroyed, it is a total loss. This opinion
is fortified by Stevens and Benecke on Average, p. 435.
The New York cases rely-upon Cocking v. Fraser. There
is a learned argument on the subject in 14 Oonn. Rep, 47.
. As to the second question. It is, that; assuming a power to
transship when the'articles were damaged, whether an insurance
upon freight.can be recovered, it being granted that the cargo
was insured and that it was for the interest of all parties to sell.
The opposite counsel says that 23 Pickering closes this case.
But I think not. (Mr. Nelson commented on the authority.)
The question to be settled is, What ought the master to do ?
The aithorities iead by Mr. Mayler have not been answered.
They show that *where the master is in the double situation of
protector of the ship and cargo, he must act with a sound discretion. Another point open upon the -reordis, that the vessel
was in the hands of the law. The -vessel entered the port .on
the 22d of June, and was sold on theist 'f July.. The goods
were taken from the control of th6 master and plitced in 6usto-

604

SUPREME

0OURT.

Hugg-et'al. v. Augusta Insurance and BankingCo.

dy of the law. The sale' was a judicial one, and .the captain
only did what his duty required.
As to the third question. This very point is decided in 12
Wheat. 383.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court,
after reading the statement prefixed to this report.
The first point -certified, upon the assumptions stated, involves the question, whether the underwriter of a policy upon
freight of goods warranted free from average is liable, as for a
total loss, unless the goods be actually destroyed by one of the
perils insured against, so as to be incapable of shipment to the
port of destination; or whether a total loss may result at the
port of distress from the goods having been so much damaged,
that, if sent on, they would become of no value at the time
they reached th6port of destinatiofi; and hence, instead of
being sent on, may b6 sold for the benefit of whom it may
concern,
The contract of insurance upon freight is, that the goods
shall arrive at the port of delivery notwithstanding the perils
insured against; and that, if they fail thus to arrive, and the
owner is thereby unable to- earn his freight, the underwriter
will make it good.
It does not undertake that the goods shall'be delivered in a
sound or merchantable state, or that the vessel in which they
are shipped shall be safe. against the dangers of the. sea, but
-that it shall be in the power of the insured to earn his freight;
that is, that the perils, insured against shall .not prevent the
ship from earning full freight for the assured in that voyage.
If the ship and cargo remain, notwithstanding the disasters, in
a condition to continue the voyage, it is in his power to earn
freight, and he is bound to proceed; but if damage happens to
either, and the voyage is broken up, so that no freight can be
earned, the owner is entitled to recover, as for a total or partial loss, according as he may or may'not have earned -freight
pro rata itineris.
If the damage happens to the vessel, and that can be repaired at the port of distress in a-reasonable time, and at a
reasonable expense, it is the duty of the owner to make the
repairs, and to continue the voyage and earn his freight; and,
on the other hand- if the damage happens to the goods, and the
ship be in a capacity to proceed, or, if disabled, another can be
procured upon reasonable terms, the owner of-the ship will still
be entitled to perform the voyage and recoter his freight, un- .
less the'goods have been totally destroyed. In every case, before he can recover of the underwriter, he must show that he

3 ANUARY

TERM, 1849.

605

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

was prevented by one of the perils insured against, from completing the voyage, and, for- that reason, had failed to entitle
himself to freight from the shippers.
The first point certified to us assumes that the ship was
capable of carrying on the cargo to the port of delivery notwithstanding the injuries received; and the only question is,
whether the cargo was so much damaged, and in such'a condition, as to have dispensed with that duty.
In the case of memorandum articles, the exception of particular average excludes a constructive total loss; and, of course,
the principle which'allbws an abandonment where the loss exceeds half the value does not apply. There must be an actual
total loss of-the, goods. The object of the clause is to protect
the underwriter from any partial loss on*articles of a perishable
nature, which are. liable to inherent. decay and damage, independently of the damage occasioned by the perils insured
against ; and where it would. be difficult, if not impossible,, to
distinguish between them. ' In case of a total loss, consequent
upon the happening of one of. the perils, the whole 'damage, is'
presumed to have arisen, from that cause, and thus all dispute
is avoided as to the origin or nature of thi loss.
What -constitutes a total loss of a memorandum article has
'been'the subject of frequent discussion, both in the courts of
England and this country, and in the- former of some diversity
of opinion-; but, in most of the cases, the decisions have been
miform, and the principle governing the question regarded as
settled; and that is,'so long as the -goods have not lost their
original character,-but remain in specie, and in that condftion
are capable of being shipped to the destined port, there cannot
be a total loss of the article, whatever may be the extent of the
damage, so as to subject the underwriter. The loss is but partial. The cases are numerous on the subject, and will be
foufid collected in Park on Marine Ins., ch. 6, subd. 13, p. 247;
2 Phillips on Ins., 'h. 18, p. 4S3; and 3 Rent's Com. 295, 296.
It would be useless to refer more particularly to them.
The only doubt that has been expressed.in respect to the
soundness of this rule is, whether a destruction in value for
all the purposes of the adventure, so that the 6'bjects of the
voyage were no longer worth pursuing, should not be regarded
as a total loss within the memoxandum clause, as well, as a
destruction in specie. . But although this has been suggested
in several cases in England as a proper qualification, and as
coming within the obligation of the underwriter, there is no
case to be found in which- the suggestion has received the
sanction of judicial authority.
In this country the rule has been uniform, that there must
51 *

606

SUPREME COURT.
Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

be a destruction.of the article in specie, as will be seen by a
reference to 'the following authorities. Maggrath v. Church, 1
Caines, 196; Neilson v. Col. Ins. Co., 3 ib. 108; Le Roy v.
Gouverneur, 1 Johns. Cas. 226'; Griswold v. New York Ins.
Co., 1 Johns. 205, Livingston, J.; S. C., 3 ib. 321; Saltus v.
Ocean Ins. Co., 14 ib. 138; Whitney v.,. N. Y. Firemen Ins.
Co., 18 ib. 208; Brooke v. Louis. State Ins. Co., 4 Martin,
N. S. 640; S. C., 5 ib. 530; Morean v. U. S. Ins. Co., 1
Wheat. 219; McGa* v. Ocean Ins. Co., 23 Pick. 405; 3 Sumner, 544; 1 Story, 342.
Whethet the test of liability is made to depend upon the
destruction in specie, or in value, would, we are inclined to
think, as a general rule, make practically very little, if any,
difference; fdr while the goods remain in specie, and arejeapable of being carried'on in.that-condition to the destined port, it
will rarely happen that on their arrival they will be of no yalue
-to the owner or cohsignee. The proposition assumes a complete destruction in value, otherwise the uncertainty attending
it would be an insuperable objection;, and, in that view, it may
be a question even if the degree of deterioration would not be
greater to constitute a total loss than is required under the
present rule.
The rule as settled seems preferable, for its certainty anfd
simplicity, and as affording the best security to the undervriter
against the strong teinptation that may frequently exist, on the
part of th6 master and shipper, to convert a partial into a total
loss.
Mr. Park, in speaking of the case of Cocking v. Fraser (4
Doug. 295), a leading 6ne in the establishment of the rule, ob-serves that the wisdom of the decision is apparent ; for, other-wise, it would be a constant temptation to'the assured, wien-ever a cargo of this~description -va likely to reach the port of
destination in an unsound state, to throw the loss upon the underwriters, by voluntarily giving up. the further prosecution of
the voyage, to which'they -vere not liable by the terms of thememorandum.% (1 Park, 249.)
The rule, it will be observed, as we have stated it, contemplates the arfitral of the goods, or some part of them, in specie,
at the' port of delivery; or that they were capable of being
shipped to that port in specie. And hence, if the commodity
be damaged so that it wodld not be allowed to remain on
'board consistently with the health of the crew or safety of the
vessel, or if permission be refused to land the same by the
public authluies at the port of distress for fear of disease, and,
for these and like causes, should, from necessity,, be destroyed
by being thrown overboard, notwithstanding the aidcle existed

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

607

Hugg et aL v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

in specie, and might have been carried on in that condition,
there would still~'be a total loss within the meaning of the
policy. In the cases supposed, it is as effectually destroyed by
a peril insured against, as if it had gone to the bottom of the
sea from the wreck of the ship. The same result follows, also,
if the goods be so much damaged as to be incapable of reaching the port of destination in their original character.
These principles are either state.d in, of are fairly deducible
from, s6veral cases; but especially from the cases of Dyson v.
Rowcroft, 3 Bos. & Poul. 474, and Roux v. Salvador, 3 Bing.
N. C. 266, and S. C., 1 Bing. N. C. 526.
In Roux v. Salvador, in the Exchequer, it was observed
at the terhat the argument rested upon the position, that, if,
mination of the risk, the goods remained in specie, however
damaged, there was not a total loss; and it was admitted that
the position might be just, if, by the termination of the risk,
was meant the arrival of the goods at their place *of destination; but that there was a fallacy in applying those words to
the termination of the adventure before that period -bya peril
of the sea, as the -object of the policy is to obtain an indemnity
for any loss that the assured might sustain by the goods being
prevented by the perils of the sea from arriving in safety at the
port of destination.
It was also remarked, that, if the goods once damaged by
the perils of the sea, and necessarily landed before the termination of the voyage, were, by reason of that damage, in such a
state, though the species be not utterly destroyed, that they
could not witlh safety be reshipped into the same or Qny other
vessel, - or if it was certain that before the termination of the
original voyage the species itself -would disappear, 7-in any of
these" cases, the circumstance of their existence in specie at the
forced termination of the risk was of no importance.
The jury had found in that case, that the hides were so far
damaged by a peril of the sea, that they never could have arrived at the port of destination in the form of hides; and as
the destruction was not complete wheri they were taken out
of the vessel at the port of distress, they became, in their then
condition, a salvage for the benefit of the party who was to
sustain the loss.
In respect to the first point, therefore, the court direct that
it be certified to the Circuit Court, that, if the jury find that
the jerked beef was a perishable article within the meaning of
the policy, the defendant is not liable as for a total loss of the
freight, unless it appears that there was a destruction in specie
of the entire cargo, so Xhat it had lost its original character at
Nassau, the port of distress, or that a total destruction would

608

SUPREME COURT.
Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking Co.

have been inevitable from the damage received, if it had been
reshippe& before it could have arrived at Matanzas, the port of
destination.
The second point certified assumes that the vessel, notwithstanding the disaster, was in a condition to carry on the.cargo,
- or that another could be procured, and the questiori is, whether
-the plaintiff is entitled to recover, -as for'a total loss of freight,
if it appeared that it was for the interest of the insured and insurer of the cargo, on account of the damaged -condition of the
portion sold, that it should h4ve been sold, and not carried on.
to Matanzas, the port of delivery.
-Many of the considerations stated in our examination of the
first point certified have a direct application to this onei; as it
there appears that the interest of the insured, or of the under -f
writer of the cargo, is not taken -into the account, norin any
way regarded in determining whether or not a total loss of
the freight has happened from any of the perils insured against,
but whether there has been a. destruction of the entire -cargo
in specie, or such damage received as would inevitably prevent
.the arrival of any portion of it in specie at the destined port.
The fiterest of the owner of the cargo may frequently be
adverse to that of the owner of the ship; for although the
goods remain in specie, arid in that condition capable of being
carried on, it may be for the interest of the owner, or of the insurer of the cargo, to have it sold in its then damaged state at
the intermediate port, instead of taking the risk of 'further deterioration. But, in that case, the owner, or those representing
him, must act upon their own responsibility;, for, if he elects
to receive the goods voluntarily at a place short of the port of
destination, he is responsible for the freight., The loss :cannot
be total or partial at his will, or as his interest may dictate.
It was said in Griswold 'v. New York Ths. Co. (which was
an action on a policy on freight), that whether it would have
been wise or foolish in 'the shipper to have sent on the flour
in the condition it was in was a question not to be put to the
plaintiffs. It was none of their concern. The risk of the value
of the cargo atthe port of delivery lay with the owners of the
cargo. All that the plaintiffs had to do by their contract was
to provide the means to take on the cargo, by repairing their
ship er procuring another.
Other considerations may arise as between the owner and
insurer of the cargo, but it is not important now to go into
them.
On looking into the facts in this case, it will be seen that
the portion of the beef landed at Nassau, and sold, was wet and
heated; and that the board of. health had recommended to the

JANUARY TERM. 1849.

609

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insifrance and Banking Co.

authorities, that it should be removed as soon as it conveniently could be without too great a sacrifice of the prpperty. It is
obvious, therefore, that the perishable condition of the article
must be taken into consideration in deciding upon the obligation of the master, in the emergency, to repair his vessel, or to
procure qnother, for the purpose of sending it on to the port of
delivery. ' If it 'should be made to appear that the repairs or
procurement of another vessel would necessarily produce such
a retardation of the voyage as would, in all probability, occasion a destruction of the 'article in specie before it could arrive
at the port of destination, or from its damaged condition could
not be reshipped in time consistently with the health of the
crew or safety, of the Vessel, or would not be in a fit condition
from pestilential effiuvia, or otherwise, to be carried on, it then
was the duty of the master to -ell the goods for the benefit of
whom it might concern.
The cargo -being in a perishable condition, the extent of the
repairs, or difficulty of procuring another vessel, and consequerit delay attending the same, are material, considerations influencing his judgment in deciding upon the necessity of a sale;
for it would be unreasonable to require him, to subject his
owner to this expense, when, at the same time, a strong probability existed that the cargo would not be in a condition to be
reshipped. 18 Johns. 208; 6 Cow. 270; 1 Bing. N. 0. 526;
3 ib. 266; 3 Brod. & Bing. 97; S.' 0. 6 Moore, 288; 6
Taunt. 383; 1 Holt, 48; 3 Kent's Com. 212, 213; 2 Phillips,
331 et seq.
The quantity and value of the portion saved are also material"
circumstances to -be considered in exercising a sound discretion
in respect to the extent of the repairs required to be made, or
of expense in the procurement bf another v.essel, with a view
to the earning of salvage for the benefit of the-underwriter on
freight. The owner of the cargo is liable for any increased
freight arising from the hire of another vessel; and inless it
can be procured at an expense not exceeding the amount of the
freight to be earned by completing the voyage, the underwriter
on freight has no right to insist upon this duty of the mdster.
Beyond this, it becomes a question between him and the
owner or underwriter of the cargo: 3 Kent's Com. 212; Shipion v. Thornton, 9 Adolph. & Ellis, 314; Searle v. Scovel,
4 Johns. Ch. 218; American Ins. Co. v. Center, 4 Wend. 45;
2 Phillips, 216.
In respect to the second question, therefore, we direct it to
be certified to the Circuit Court, if the jury find that, from the
condition of tha't portion of the cargo sold at Nassau, it was for
the interest of the insured and insurers of the cargo that it

610

SUPREME- COURT.
Huggeat aL v. Augis ta 'Insurance and Banking Co.

should have been so sold, and not transported to Matanzas,
still, the -plaintiffs are not entitled to recover as for a total loss
of freight, provided their own vessel could have been repaired in
a reasonable time,- and at a reasonable expense, so as to perform
the voyage, or they could have procured another at Nassau, the
port of distress, and have transshipped the portion sold in specie
.to the port of destination.
I The third question is, assuming that the plaintiffs are entitled
to recover, is the policy on the amount mentioned for one entire voyage round from Baltimore out, and home again; and are
the 'defendants entitled to deduct from the amount insured the
freight earned in the voyage'from Baltimore to Rio upon the
outward cargo.
The policy provides, that the defendants, in consideration. of
.156.25,'agree to insure the plaintiffs, &c., on freight of the
bark Margaret Hugg, at and from Baltimore to Rio Yaneiro
and back to Havana or Matanzas, or a port in the United
States, &c., to the amount of $ 5,000 upon all kinds of lawful
goods, &c., beginning the adventure upon the said freight
from and immediately foilowing the lading thereof aforesaid
at Baltimore, and continuing the same until the said goods,
wares, and merchandise shall be safely landed at the port
aforesaid.
It is insisted, on the part of the defendants, that the' voyage
insured is one entire voyage from Baltimore out to Rio Janeiro,
and then to Matanzas, or home; and that they are entitled to a
deduction of the- freight earned on the outward cargo from Baltimore to Rio.
Jl'he court are of opinion, that, upon a true construction of the
pohioy Ihe insurance was upon every suecessive cargo that was
taken on board, in the course of the voyage out and home, and
is to be applied to the freight at risk at any time, whether on
the outward or homeward passage. This was the construction
given to these terms - in a freight policy in Davy v. Hallett, 3
Caines, 16, and The Columbian Ins. Co. v. Catiet, 12 Wheat.
383. The insurance 'was regarded as, in effect, covering
freight upon separate voyages out and home, to the amount of.
the valuation; and in the former case the payment of double
premiuni was deemed a pretty sure index to the intent of the
parties that the policy should attach on the outward or home-waid freight according to events, and was to be valid and
operative as long as there was aliment to- keep it alive. All
the considerations urged in. favor of this construction in the
cases referred to- apply with equal force tb the policy in question.
The-dburt direct, therefore, that it be certified to the Circuit

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

611

Hugg et al. v. Augusta Insurance and Banking C.

Court, that, assuming the plaintiffs are entitled to recover, the
defendants are not entitled to deduct from the insured the
freight earned on the voyage"from Baltimore to Rio upon the
outward cargo, as the policy is not for one entire voyage round
from Baltimore out, and home.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland, and on the points and questions on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to this court for its opinion agreeably
to the act, of Congress in such case made and provided, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
-opinion of this court, - 1st. That, if the jury find that the
jerked beef was a perishable article within the meaning of the
policy, the defendants are, not liable as for a total loss of the
freight, unless it appears that there was a destruction in specie
of the entire cargo, so that it had lost its origifnal character at
Nassau, the port of distress ; or that a total destruction would
have been inevitable from the' damage received, if it had been
reshipped before it could have arrived at Matanzas, the port of
destination. 2d. If the jury find, that, from the condition, of
that portion of the cargo sold tNassau, it'was for the interest
of the insured and insurers bf the cargo, that it should have
been so sold, and not trafsported to Matanzas, still, that the
plaintiffs are not entitled to recover as for a total loss ol freight,
provided their own vessel could have been repaired in a reasonable time, and at a reasonable expense, so as to perform the
voyage, or they could have procured another at Nassau, the port
of distress, and have transshipped the portion sold in specie to
the port of destination. And 3d. That, assuming the plaintiffs are entitled to recover, the defendants, are not entitled to
deduct from the insured the freight ,earned on the voyage from'
Baltimore to Rio upon the outward cargo, as the policy id not
for one entire voyage round from Baltidiore out, and home.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged, that it be so
certified to the said Circuit Court.

