784

SUPREME COURT.
'Van Rensselaer v. Wattss Executors.

entry, accrued, to maintain their action within ten years after
theiireturn, was expressly rep6ealed,'by the first section of the
act of January, 1814, which, by a"subsequent clause in the
third-section of the same act, was to take effect at the. expira-tion of six months from its passage; and it was not until more
than a year after the passage of that act, that this suit was brought
by Luckett in the Circuit Court. It is obvious, therefore) that
the absence of Buckner Pittman cannot have prevented the time
which has 6lapsed since the lot had been'held adversely by the
defendants, and those through whom they claim, from barring
the plaintiff's action.
The rule of so cbnstruing a'statute as n'ot to give ita retrospective effect is admitted. And a legislature can never be
presumed to intend t6 destroy a vested right. Indeed, they
have no power to pass such a law. But a law may be. constitu-tional, and yet have a retrospective effect. Matthewson V.
Satterlee, 2 Peters, 380. In the case under examination, it
is not propose&,to give the statute a retrospective effect, or to
affect in .any degree vested rights by a construction of it. - The
only question is, whethei'the six years that the statute had to
run, on the repeal of the saving, is a reasonable part 0'f the
whole time required by the act to constitute a bar. The plaintiff though not a resident of the State, might have sued so
soon as the right of action accrued.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District: of
Illinois, and on the point or question on which-the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and. which was
certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of
Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On .consideration whereof, it is the. opinion of this
court, that the statute of 1827 begins to run from the time of
the repeal of the saving clause in 1837, and not before.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

JEREDE

VAN

RENssEiER,

APPELLANT, V. JOHN WATTS'S ExEc6Uros.

Mr. Blunt, of counsel for the appellant in this cause, moved
he court to direct the clerk to docket the case as of the time

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

785

Lawrence v. Allen et al

when the transcript of the record was received by him, and in
support of his motion said, that this record was forwarded to
the clerk early in-1848. That it was only recently he learned
-that the clerk had declined filing or docketing it, until the
bond prescribed by the thirty-seventh rule of court was given.
That his client supposed, when he gave bond'in the Circuit
Court, that he had done -all that the law required him to do.
That the record had been lying in the clerk's office about a
year, during which some sixty-cases had been docketed. That
the bond was now filed, as prescribed by the rule, and that
the case. -ought to be docketed as of the day the record was deposited in the office.
Mr. Seward, for appellees, united in the application.
This motion was made on the 9th of March, when the court
took time to. consider.
On-the 12th, Mr. Chief Justice TANEY announced the decision of the court as follows: On consideration of the motion made in this. cause, on the
9th instant, by Mr. Blunt, of counsel for the appellant, to
direct the clerk to docket this case as of the time when the
transcript of 'the record was received by him, and to which
Mr. Seward, of counsel for the appellees, .assented, this court
consider the practice established by the decision in Owings
v. Tiernan, 10 P.eters, and do not wish to disturb it;
whereupon it is now here ordered by this court, .that the said
motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

CoRN.Lius W. LAWRENCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. GILBERT ALLEN
AND SADMWEL C. PAXTON
the 30th of August, 1842, (5 Stat. at
section
of theof tariff
ByLarge,
the fifth
555,)
a duty
thirtyact
perpassed
cent, on
is imposed
on 'India-rubber oil-cloth,
webbing, shoes, braces or suspenders, or any other fabrics or manufactured artiles composed wholly or in part
India-rubber."
In the ninth section, among otherofarticles
declared to be exempt from duty, is,
"India-rubberin bottles or sheets, or otherwise unmanfactured."
By these sections, the duty of thirty per cent, is payable upon shoes made of India-

rubber in Brail, although they are made by the sae process as botties or sheets,

provided they come to this country in a condition to be worn without further material labor on thum here, and were actually worn in this form, and provided they

were called, in the language of commerce, "Idia-rubber shoes"; and of these
two facts the jury ought to judge.

The articles come within the letter of the law, and the act of"1842 was framed with

a desire to tax whatever might compete with our own manufactures.
When India-rubber is made into a shape suitable for use, it may be consifered a
manufactured article. Originally, it was made into the shape of boots, to be used

66*

