SUPREME COURT.

586

Kennedy's Executdrs et aL z).Hunt's Lessee-et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District -Court of the United States, for the
Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said District
Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
to the said District Court; with directions to that court to enter judgment in this case for both principal and interest for the
plaintiff in that court.

ExEcuToRs ET AL., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. LESSEE OF. JONATHAN HUNT, JOHN HAGAN ET AL., DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.

JOSHUA KINNEDY'S

Forbes and Company obtained a grant of land in 1807 from Morales, IntendantGeneral uder the Spanish government4 which land was adjacent to Mobile, in
West Florida. This grant purported to be, in part, the confirmation of a concession granted in 1796 and surveyed in 1802. The survey terminated at highwater-mark upon the river.
The grant of 1807 included the land between the then bank of the river and the
high-water-mark of 1802.
This grant of 1807 wag excepted from the operation of the act of Congress
passed on the 26th of March, 1804, which annulled allSpanish grants made after
the 1st of October, 1800, and was recognized as a valid grant by the act of 3d
I
March, 1819. An act of March 2d, 1829, confirmed an incomplete Spanish concession which was
alleged to draw after it, as a consequence, certain riparian rights conflicting with
those claimed under the grant of 1807.
A decision of a State court, giving the land covered by these riparianrights to the
claimants under the grant of 1807, was only a construction of a perfected Spanish title, and cannot be reviewed by this court under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act. It did not draw in question an act of Congress or any authority exercised under the Constitution or laws of the United States.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error, i~sued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.

" It w'as argued by M11r. John 0. Sargeit and Mr. Johnson,.
for the, plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Underwood and Mr.
Sargeant,for the defendants in error.
The points made by the coumsel for the plaintiffs in error
were the following.

JAN.UARY

TERM, 1849.

587

Kennedy's Executors'et aL v. Huntfs Lessee et aL

The action was ejectment brought by plaintiffs below in
the Circuit Cburt for Mobile county, to recover a piece of
ground and ground covered with water, on Mobile River.
Plaintiffs gave in evidence the Spanish Orange Grove grant
of 1807 to Forbes & Co., and the act of Congress entitled,
"An act adjusting the claims to land, and establishing landoffices in the districts east of the island of New Orleans,"
passed 3d March, 1819. (3 Stat. at Large, 528.)
Defendants gave in evidence a Spanish concession of 1798
to Thomas Price, and an act of Congress of 2d March, 1829,
entitled, "An act confirming the reports of the register and re-.
ceiver of the land-offices for the district of St. Stephens, in
the State of Alabama, and for other purposes," confirming said
title by United States with surveys, location, certificate, report, and patent by United States to Joshua Kennedy, and
the mesn6 conveyances from Price to defendants. (4 Stat. at
z
Large, 358.)
I. The right of the defendants to the land iii controversy.
was asserted under the act of 1829, and the decision of the
court below was against that right. This brings the case
clearly within the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
In 1798, Price prayed Governor Gayoso to grant him a tract,
of tvwenty arpens by thirtr, bounded on the east by the lots in
the town of Mobile, and the river of said town. The donation was ordered accordingly, November 10, 1796.
In 1806, it was confirmed by the commandant, according to
a plan accompanying his petition, and the deputy surveyor
was ordered to survey the tract and make the boundaries, according to a "copy from the surrounding survey."
This tract, thus bounded, was confirmed by the act of 1829.
The patent, plan, survey, &c., all show that the confirmation contemplated the original boundaries; one of which, on
the east, was the River Mobile.
Defendants insist that they are still entitled tb go to the
river, as one of their eastern boundaries; that the act of 1829
operated to confirm the title of Price to the tract described in
th3 concession of 1798.
The decision of the court below was" against the title or
right set up under this act.
II. The court below charged the jury that the construction
of the plaintiffs' (Forbes & Co.) grant .as confirmed would authorize them to go to the channel bf the river; and that the
boundaries of the plair tiffs- grant must be run and continued
eastwardly till they reich the channel of the river.
Defendants excepted.
The grounds of exception are not specifically stated. -It is

588

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy's Executors et al, v. Hunt' Lessee et al.

supposed that the exception lets in all legal 'objections of
which the defendants could have availed themselves below.
They appear in the record certified from the Supreme Court,
and are alluded to in the opinion of the court. They set up
the act of March 2, 1819, entitled, "An act to enable the people of the Alabama Territory to form a constitution and State
government, and for the admission of such State into the Union on an equal footing with the original States," as a bar to
the -plaintiffs' claim, by establishing an outstanding title to the
land in controversy in the State of Alabama. This is supposed to be a perfect defence. .' If the United States, on the 2d
of March, 1819, dedicated the shore of Mobile River to Alabama, they could not grant it subsequently to an individual, or
confirm an invalid Spanish grant to -make it so operate. The
court below decided, in effect, that the act in question did not
vest the shore in Alabama, and that Congress could grant it to
an individual. It is apparent on the record, that the constructi~n of this statute was-called in question, and that the judgment of the State court would not have been what it is, if
there had not been a misconstruction of this statute to the injury of the defendants below, or a decision against the validity
of the right, title, lyrivilege, or exception set up under it; or,
in other words, the question is necessarily involved in- the decision, and the State court could not have given.the judgment
or decree which they passed without deciding it. (3 Pet. 398;
16 Pet. 285.)
. I1. The court below refused to charge, that, if the jury believed the line of division between the Forbes and Price
grants was drawn by authority of the United States, and surveyed anct patented to Price's assigns, and being a United
States survey and location of both tracts, such survey i was
binding on the plaifitiffs, and the said two titles would cease
where such survey ceased to the east, and the riparious rights
would commence where such survey ceased, according to the
front of each.
Defendants excepted.
The court below charged that the grant of the plaiptiffs, being confirmed by the act of 1819 as a domplete title, it could
not be affected or limited -by any survey made by the authority of the United States, and that the jury should find without
any regard to any such survey.
Defendants exceptel.
Defendants insist that the surveys in evidence were made
by authority of the United States, under the acts of 1819 and
1829, and of other acts pioviding for the survey and location
of claims to land in the township of Mobile. "

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

589

Kennedy's Executors et al. v. Hunt's Lessee et al.

They further insist, that, by their charge, and their refusal
to charge as requested, and their rejection of the United
States surveys, the court ruled against the validity of an authority exercised under the United States.
IV. Both parties claim under acts of Congress; the defendants below under that of 1829, confirming the concession to
Price; the plaintiffs under that of 1819, corffirming the invalid
Spanish grant to Forbes & Co. The decision could not but
be against the right set up by the defendants under the one
statute, if it was in favor of the right set up by the plaintiffs
under the other.
, The record sets out the title on each side, together with
the facts and the charge of the court; from which it appears,
that the decision of the State court of Alabama was opposed
to the right of the plaintiffs in error, the judgment of the Circuit Court having been affirmed. The construction and application are called for of the acts of Congress on which the controversy depends.
In the City of Mobile v. Eslava, 16 Peters, 249, Mr. Justice
Catron cites Matthews v. Zane, 4. Cranch, 382; Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters, 664; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 509; -Pollard's Lessee v. Kibbe, 14 Peters, 353, as establishing the doctrine, that where both sides claim under acts of Congress, and
come to this court under the twenty-fifth section for their construction, the court proceed upon the whole case, and for either
side.
On the whole, it, is manifest from the record. that the judgment of the court below could not have been what it is, if
there had not been a decision against the right and title set up
by the defendants below under the act of 1829; or against
the defence they set up under the act of the 2d of March,
1819; or against the validity of an authority exercised under
the laws providing' for the survey and location of claims in
the township where the land in controversy lies.
The counsel cited the following authorities in support of the
jurisdiction of the court.
Pollard's Lessee v. Kibbe, 14 Petcrs, 360.; Wallace v. Parker,
6 Peters, 687; Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Granch, 344;
Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peters, 298; Davis v. Packard, 6 Peters,
48;. Wilson v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2. Peters,
250; Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 355; Miller v.
Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 311; Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117;
Mobile v. Eslava, 16 Peters, 249; Craig v. State of.Missouri,
4 Peters, 427; Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 How. 372; Matthews
v. Zane, 4 Cranch, 32; Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters, 664;
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 509.

590

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy's Executors-et al. v. Hunt's Lessee et al.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here by writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Alabama, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and the first question made by the defendants in error is, whether any mattei presented by the record
will authorize this court to exercise jurisdiction under the
twenty-fifth section. And to ascertain how ar, if at all, the
powers of this court can be called iito exercise, thb facts and
the laws bearing on them must be stated in something of detail; as in this case, in common with many others, it is found
much more difficult to settle the question of jurisdiction,- and
how far it extends, than it would have been to decide the
merits of the controversy hiad the cause been brought here by
writ of error. to a court of the United States.
Hunt, Ftagan, and others,, gued in ejectment Kennedy's- executors an ,other tenants in possession, for about ten acres of
land lying in the cityof Mobile, in the State Cir'uit Court.
The plaintiffs claimed title to the premises sued for under a
grant made to John Forbes & Co. in 1807, by Morales, Intendant-General under the Spanish government in the province of
West Florida, Spain being then in possession of the province
and exercising jurisdiction. The grant, by its recitals, purports to be, in part, the confirmation. of a concession, and' survey founded on it, of earlier dates; say 1796 and 1802, in
favor of Panton, Leslie, & Co., to which firm Forbes & Co.
were successors. •The concession was surveyed in 1802 by
Collins, an authoriz6d surveyor under the Spanish government,
and its eastern boundary terminated on the bank of the Mobile
River, at high-water-mark; the survey contained two hundred
and sixty-three acres, equal to about three hundred arpens.
To the extent of Collins's survey there is no contrbversy, but
'Forbes & Co. solicited the Intendant-General in 1807 to grant
them the flowed land lying east of the eastern boundary of
the survey, and between the same and the channel of the river, and which the Intendant proceeded to do, .inthe following
terms :.-" And as the distance that is observed in the map
from the river-to the boundary-lines of the land, which was
left vacant at that time in consequence of its having been impassable, has'gince become of great use to the claimants, having constructed levels and the necessary drains, in consideration of which it has been granted to ihem as a compensation
for their labor thereon invested, with- the. reserve such as necessary to allow a free passage along the bank, of the river,
without altering the figure of the tract on either of the, other
side-.' -Wherefore, using and exercising the powers which the
king our lord - God preserve him ! -has conferred on me, I do

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

591

Rennedy's Executors et al. v. aunt's Lessee et al.

in his royal name confirm and ratify to the aforesaid John
'Forbes & Co. the possession of the three hundred and ten arpens, seventy-seven perches and one eighth,-already mentioned,
afncl which -,a contained in the map (No. 1809), with the corrections made by the surveyor-general, in order that they may
own and .ossess the same, sell and alienate-the land at their
own and entire pleasure, without prejudice to any third person who may have a better right, on condition that- they
'should observe and fulfil the requisitions of the land regulations formed and published by the intendanuy on the seventeenth of July, 1799, as far as the local situation and quality
'of the land will permit."
According to Spanish usages and regulations, the grant to
Forbes & Co. was a'perfect title,'"ad as such binding on the
government of Spain, although made in 1807, after that govermnent had parted with its power to grant, according to our
construction of the treaty of 1.803, the limits of which were
claimed by this government to extend east to the River Perdido, and which claim has .been upheld and established by, the
political and judicial departments of the Unitea-States. The
first conclusive step was taken by Congrea s early as 1804,
when, by the act of March '26th of that year,. it was declared that all grants made by the 'Spanish.authorities after
the 1st day of October, 1800, (the date of the treaty of St.
Ildefonso,) should -be held and deemed to be void. But the
act excepted from its operation -" any bona fide grant made
agreeably to the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish government, to an actual settler on the .lands so granted for himself and for his wife and family"; and also excepted "any
hondfide act or proceeding done by an actual settler agreeably
to the laws, usages, and 'customs of the Spanish government,
to obtdin a grant'for lands actually settled on by the person or
persons claiming title thereto, if such settlement, in either
case, was actually made prior to the 20th day of December,
1803." Some restrictions -were imposed on actual settlers in
regard to quantity; that have no application -to the grant of
Foibes & Co!
The Spanish grant recites that Forbes & Co. had been
settled on 4fie land granted, and that it had been occupied and
cultivated by them since the year 1796, and up to the date of
the grant, and such was the proof made before our c6mmissioner, and therefore the "proceeding" by which the imperfect title of 'Forbes & Co. was completed was .within' the
second exception of the act of 1804. That the grant made
by the Intendant-General Morales, in 1807, was in itself, unaided by the sanction of Congress, a valid title, we do not as-

SUPREME COURT.

592

K6nncdy# Exacutors .et &. v. Iunt's Lessee et &L

sert; but being reported on by the commissioner as a.title
-complete in form, according to the usages and. laws of Spain,
and recognized and
by Congress " a perfoect title
-by.the act of 1819, the courts of justice are concluded by the
action of the political department, and -bound to pronounce
•the grant to .,orbes & Go. atperfect title- in substance as well
as form, because the claim was within the' exclusive jurilietion of the political- department in 1819, when Congress acted
-on it.. Such is the well-established doctrine of-this court i as
will ba seen by the .eases of Choutcau v. Eckhart, 2 How..
.344; Mackay v. Dillon, 4 ib. 421; and especially that of Le
Bois v. Bramnell, 4 ib. 461.
.7Nor did the grant of Forbes & Co. .require any frther step
to. perfect its -boundary. This being th6 pr4n&fade' condition of Forbes. & Co.'s grant, the next inquiry: is whether
those claiming under Kennedy's title. were in a.condition, on
the trial in the State edurt, to call the plaintiffs' titl, in que.-

waletionea

tion..
The defendants below claimed by virtue of an act of Congross, passed Maich 2, 1829, confirming an incomplete Spanish concession made to Thomas Price;. By the fourth section
of the . confirming act of 18291 it is provided, " that the confirmations of all the claims provided -for by this act shall
amount only to a relinquishmont for.over on the part of 'the
United States, of any tlaim whatever to. the tracts of land
and town lots so confirmed, and that nothing herein contained
ahvll be construed to alTect the claim or claims of any individ-

ual or body politic or corporate, if any such there be."
. And by the fifth section'of said act, the register and receiver of the land-office at St. Stephens were invested with power, within their district, to direct the manner in which all
claims to lands and town. lots which had been confirmed by
that act should be located and surveyed; having reference to
the laws, usages, and customs.of the Spanish government on
the subject, and also'to the. mode adopted by the government'
of the United:.States, pursuant -to the act of March 3; 1803.
And by section sixth, certificates of confirmation and .patents
were ordered to be granted for-all lands and town lots coufirmed bythe actt.:.':

Acoring.to the

act, the claim of Joshua Kennedy (repro-

sentative 9f T3homas Price) was duly surveyed on the 2d of
February, 1836, and in-Maiy, 1837,"a.patenf-wartaken out byKenncedy for the lbd described in the survey.: .The.calls n
the patent, having any connection with the present 'controveray are as follows : - ",Thoneo north, 690 W'cast 15. hbaink
-44 links to 'the ancient.. margin 'of the River. Mobile, being

JANUARY
.

-

TERM, 1849.

593

Kennedy's Executors et al. v. Hunt's Lessee et al.

341 links west of the south angle of St. Louis and Water
Streets; thence north, 660 west, nine chains and seventy-six
links, to the southeast corner of the Orange Grove tract granted
to John Fortes & Co." The next line runs north, 820 west,
with the southern boundary of Forbes & Co.'s tract.
The southeast corner of the Orange Grove tract is an ironbound stake, well known, and .from which the Spanish survey
made by Collins runs due north, and from that line east to the
channel of the river the land was added by the gant of the
Intendant-General Morales, in 1807.
The line of Kennedy's grant fronting towards the river runs
660 west of north, and it is contended that Kennedy, as a
front proprietor, is entitled to claim a' riparian right to the
channel of the river, according to lines drawn at right angles
to the front line and from each terminus thereof, unless some
other claim shall interfere; and it is insisted that the addition
made to Forbes & Co.'s grant in 1807 cannot hinder the as.sertion of Kennedy's riparian right, because the addition was
made after Spanish authority ceased, and for so much the grant
of 1807 is void, and being out of the way, Forbes & Co. can
-only claim as front proprietors, riparian rights in like manner.
that Kennedy himself clqims; and to'ext nd Forbes's southern
line ,east, and Kennedy's lines at right angles, as above stated,
would produce a conflict of riparian rights incident to the respective grants, the lines crossing each other at the iron-bound
stake, forming an acute angle at the stake, and widening towards the channel of the river; and thio angle, it is assumed
by those claiming under Kennedy's grant, should be divided
between the two grants, but in what proportions we are not informed. This assumption the State court rejected, and held
that Forbes & Co.'s grant teok all the land .to the channel of
the river north of a direct e-Xnsion of its southern boundary,
and thereby cut off the pretension of Kennedy to the incident
of alluvion.
Suppose it to be true that the addition made to'Forbes &
Co.'s grant in 1807 was void, for want of authority in the
Spanish government, or for any other reason, and that Kennedy's grant was entitled to divide the alluvion as an incident to
it, and that the State 'court improperly rejected his claim, and
wrongfully adjudged the land to 'Forbes & Co. ; conceding all
these assumptions, can -this court revise and reverse the decision
of the State court? The controversy respecting the alluvion
drew in question no act of Congress, nor any authority exercised under the Constitution or "laws of the United States, and
therefore the decision of the State court could not be opposed
either to the laws, or to any authority exercised under the laws,
50* .
-

594

SUPREME COURT.
Kennedy's" Executors et aL

t.

Hunt's Lessee et af.

of the United States. For the established construction and
application- of the twenty-fifth' section of the Judiciary Act,
we refer to the cases of Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 391,.
398; McKinney v. Carroll, 12 Peters, 68; and Armstrong v.
Treasurer of Athens County, 16 P.ters, 284. In this case, as
in that of McDonogh v. Millaudqn, 3 How. '693, the State
courts were called on to construe a perfected Spanish title, and
to settle its limits by applying the local law, and having done
so ' this court has. no authority to revise the judgment; nor can
we see how the case would have been different had Forbes &
Co.'s grant been an elder patent emanating from the United
States directly; as in such a case a controversy concerning the
incidents of alluvion would not have drawn in question an act
of Congress,'or a survey made according to an act of Congress.
We deem it useless to examine in detail the instructions
proppsed by the defendants below, and rejected by the court.'The only one worthy of notice 'was that which rejected
Weakly's survey of Forbes & Co.'s grant, made and approved
din 1835. It could not change the grant, nor affect its validity
in anydegree, and could only be read to establish boundary as
a matter of fact; and neither its admission nor rejection, when
-offered for such purpose, could give this court jurisdiction, no
tmatter which side should be injured; and so this court, in effect, held in the case of Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How. 447., The
'survey was an ex parte proceeding for the purposes of the landoffice, and immaterial to Forbes & Co.'s title.
On careful examination, we are of opinion that no.one question was raised and decided in the State courts that gives this
court jurisdiction to revise such decision ; and that, therefore,
-the case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on -the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and
was 'argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be and
the same is-hereby dismissed, for wdnt of jurisdiction.

