JANUARY TERM, 1849.

785

Lawrence v. Allen et al

when the transcript of the record was received by him, and in
support of his motion said, that this record was forwarded to
the clerk early in-1848. That it was only recently he learned
-that the clerk had declined filing or docketing it, until the
bond prescribed by the thirty-seventh rule of court was given.
That his client supposed, when he gave bond'in the Circuit
Court, that he had done -all that the law required him to do.
That the record had been lying in the clerk's office about a
year, during which some sixty-cases had been docketed. That
the bond was now filed, as prescribed by the rule, and that
the case. -ought to be docketed as of the day the record was deposited in the office.
Mr. Seward, for appellees, united in the application.
This motion was made on the 9th of March, when the court
took time to. consider.
On-the 12th, Mr. Chief Justice TANEY announced the decision of the court as follows: On consideration of the motion made in this. cause, on the
9th instant, by Mr. Blunt, of counsel for the appellant, to
direct the clerk to docket this case as of the time when the
transcript of 'the record was received by him, and to which
Mr. Seward, of counsel for the appellees, .assented, this court
consider the practice established by the decision in Owings
v. Tiernan, 10 P.eters, and do not wish to disturb it;
whereupon it is now here ordered by this court, .that the said
motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

CoRN.Lius W. LAWRENCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. GILBERT ALLEN
AND SADMWEL C. PAXTON
the 30th of August, 1842, (5 Stat. at
section
of theof tariff
ByLarge,
the fifth
555,)
a duty
thirtyact
perpassed
cent, on
is imposed
on 'India-rubber oil-cloth,
webbing, shoes, braces or suspenders, or any other fabrics or manufactured artiles composed wholly or in part
India-rubber."
In the ninth section, among otherofarticles
declared to be exempt from duty, is,
"India-rubberin bottles or sheets, or otherwise unmanfactured."
By these sections, the duty of thirty per cent, is payable upon shoes made of India-

rubber in Brail, although they are made by the sae process as botties or sheets,

provided they come to this country in a condition to be worn without further material labor on thum here, and were actually worn in this form, and provided they

were called, in the language of commerce, "Idia-rubber shoes"; and of these
two facts the jury ought to judge.

The articles come within the letter of the law, and the act of"1842 was framed with

a desire to tax whatever might compete with our own manufactures.
When India-rubber is made into a shape suitable for use, it may be consifered a
manufactured article. Originally, it was made into the shape of boots, to be used

66*

186

SUPRERME COURT.
Lawrence v. Allen et al.

.and
inBrazil,.and afterwards into shoes; but not intended to be sent abroad
as aworn
raw material.
The fact that the material of which these shoes axe made is usea for'other articles
of manufacture after their importation, does not change this view of the subject.

T-HIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
-Court of the United States for the Southern District of 'New
York.
It was an action of assumpsit, commenced by. Allen and
Paxton, the'defendants in error, in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, for the purpose of recovering hack from
the piintit in error, collector of customs,for the port of New'
York, certain moneys exacted by him, as collector, for duties
upon.a quantity of common India-rubber shoes, imported into
'the port of New York in September, 1845, by'the defendants
in error, from Para, in Brazil.
SUnder the provisions of the act of Congress of the 2d of
•-March, 1833, the suit was removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York.
The declaration contained the common money counts, to
'which the defendant pleaded the general issue.
The cause, was tried' in: May, 1847, and, under the instructions of the court, th6 jury found 'a verdict for the, plaintiffs
below, for $ 2,908.60.
A great deal of, evidernce was adduced upon the trial by the
plaintiffs, to show the manner in Which the shoes are made in'
Brazil, and their use as an article of commerce. Much of this.
testimony, was objected to as inadmissible. A part of'it is
transcribed, because it is referred to in the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiffs' counsel then called, 'as 'witnesses, James E.
Smith, Amory .Edwards, George G. Wales, and William H.
Edwards, wlo, being sworn, severally testified that they were
acquainted with the articles now the subject' of controversy,
and with other articles" of India-rubber -imported from Para;
that they had been at Para, and were acquainted with the process of producing or making India-rubber; that the juice or
sap of the trees, when collected, is about the color and consistency 'of milk, and is,
called milk; that it is placed"in a vessel
of convenient size ; that-moulds of clay, or of wood'covered
with clayr, in the shape of a shoe, or bottle, or other shape, and
to which a handle is attached, are dipped in the 'milk, and immediately held in the heat and smoke of a fire made of a
peculiar kind of nut, which .dries the milk and gives it a dark
color; that this process is repedted several times, until the
coating is sufficiently thick, when the article is taken from the
mould, by breaking the clay of which it is made, or with

JANUARY

TERM, .1849.

787

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

which it is covered, and the pieces of clay -are taken out; that
shoes and bottles are then generally stuffed with straw, and
that the article is then ready for 'sale and exportation; that
bottles are made in two or three minutes; that it takes somewhat 16nger, say about -five minutes, to prepare a shoe; there
must .be a new mould for every bottle ; - the foot-shaped mould
is the best form for dipping. The shoe shape is the most convenient mode of making India-rubber. The stuffing. of, the
shoe is done by the parties who buy them in Para-for expbrtation. The shoes are sometimes shipped in bulk, -and sometimes stuffed. The term, India-rubber shoes, comprehends all
kinds of shoes made of India-rubber, both manufactured and
unmanufactured; that the prize of India-rubber shoes, in Par,
has varied greatly 'since 1826; that the great demand for
India-rubberi, of late years, in the United States, for dissolving
for manufacturing purposes, has raised the price in Para; that
•no such things as suspenders are made in Para; that nothing
is made there in a more' manufactured state than the square
sheets; that India-rubber shoes are sometimes sold and shipped at Para without being stuffed with straw.
Much evidence was also introduced by the defendant, the
object of which was to show that the articles were known, in
commerce, by, the name of " India-rubber shoes," and were
bought and sold in the market as imported, without any alteration of any consequence.
The counsel for the defendant then prayed the court to decide the law of the case,'and to instruct and charge the jury,
-as follows :First. That in.construing and.applying the provisions of the
tariff law of August 30,_ 1842, to the present case, the terms
use& therein are to be understood in their known commercial
sense, as used arid understood in the ports of the United States
prior to, and at the date of, said law.
. Secondly. That as all "India- i bber shoes," imported from
foreign countries, arej by the said provisions, subject to thirty
per cent. duty, the true and only inquiry in the present case is,
whether, in a commercial sense, and among commercial mien
dealing therein, the articles in question were imported into, and'
usually known and bought and sold in, the ports of the United
States, prior to and at the date of the law, under the name
and denomination of "India-rubber shoes-"
Thirdly. That if the jury shall be'satisfied, from the evidence, that the articles in question were imported into, and
usually known and bought and sold in, the ports of the United
States, prior to the 30th of August, 1842, under the name and
denomination of "India-rubber" shoes," then they are liable,

SUPREME.COURT.
Law.rence v. Allen et-al.
under the law, to a duty of thirty per cent. ad vdorem, and
the jury should be instructed to find for the defendant; and
that,'in the case stated, the'jury should be instructed to find
for the defendant,,notwithstanding they should also be satisfied,
from the evidence, either,1st. That the 'term "India-rubber shoes," as used in cbmmerce, includes all other kinds of shoes made in.whole or in
part of India-rubber, as well-as these; or,
2d., That "India-rubber shoes," in a more finished condition,
and of a better quality, were imported from England France,
or other countriesj prior to 1842, and were then, and are now,.
or,
known in the markets ;
3d. That some additional labor is usually applied to these articles, or isnecessary to fit them for convenient use as shoes; or,
4th. That these articles are extensively used by manufacturers in the United States for the purpose of being made, in
whole or in part, into other articles; or,
5th. That no mo-'e or other kind of labor is required to make
these'articles than is required to make India-rubber in bottles,
or sheets, or other kinds of India-rubber, which, by the seventh
article of the ninth section, is entitled to admission as free.
It being insisted, on the part of the defendaii, that neither
of these circumstances, nor all of them combined, can nullify
the explicit terms of the preceding fifth section, by which all
kinds of " India-rubber shoes 11are subjected to the thirty per
cent. duty nor make free these articles, provided they are and
were known in commerce under the name 11India-rubber
shoes."
But his honor, the presiding judge, refused so to decide the
law of the, case, or so to instruct the jury; and, on the contrary, the said judge did then and there decide, and did then
and there charge and instruct the said jury, that the case, in
the view taken thereof by the, court, entirely depended on the
true legal construction of the tariff act of August 30, 1842.
and involved no question of fact for the jury; that India-rubber, when used, in whole or in part, in the manufacture of oilcloth, webbing, shoes, braces, or suspenders, or any other fabrics
or manufactured articles, was, by the tenth article of the fifth
section of this law,' subjected to the duty of thirty per centum
ad valorem, specified in the clause relating to these fabrics,
contained in said tenth article; -that, by the seventh article of
the ninth section of .saidact, India-rubber, in bottles or shepts,
or otherwise unmanufactured, is declared to be exempt from
duty; that, by virtue of this clause; India-rubber existing in
the particular forms enumerated therein, and existing in any
other form inwhich it mar be imported,, is free from duty, if

JANUARY TERM, .1849.

789

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

unmanufactured; that, as these two'clauses were both in the
mind of the legislature, when treating of India-rubber, they are
to be construed together; and that, so construed, the fair conclusion is, -and such the said judge decided to be the true
legal interpretation of said provisions, - that Congress, in laying the duty, had special reference to the manufactured article
in a finished state, and intended to allow India-rubber to come
in as free, whatever might be its form, if it had not been
brought, by manufacture, into a finished state; that, as it was
not pretended that the goods in question were shoes manufactured out of the material called India-rubber, and as it was admitted by all the witnesses that they were brought into the
form of a sh 9 in the process of making the material called
India-rubber, they were not "India-rubber shoes," within the
*meaning of the tenth article of the fifth section,- but were to
be regarded as raw Material and as unmanufactured, within the
meaning of the seventh article of the ninth section; that the
goods in question were, therefore, entitled to be admitted free
of duty; that the plaintiffs having protested in writing against
the payment of any duty thereon, and the collector having,
notwithstanding, illegally exacted a duty of thirty per centum
ad valorem thereon, the plaintiffs were entitled to recover back
the moneys so exacted, except so far as the-same had been .efunded by way of drawback; and that the jury would, therefore, render a verdict for the amount of such remaining moneys,
with interest thereon to the day of trial, in favor of the said
plaintiffs.
And thereupon the said defendant, by his counsel aforesaid,
then and there excepted to the whole of the said decision,
charge, ,and instruction of the said judge, and particularly to
those parts thereof wherein the said judge decided and held
that the said case involved no question of fact for the jury,
and wl~erein the said"judge instructed" and charged the jury,
as matter of law, that the goods in question were entitled,
under the act of Congres.s above referred to, to be admitted'
free of duty; and wherein the said judge also instructed and
charged the said jury, as matter of law, that, the plaintiffs
were entitled to recover back the moneys exacted by the defendant as duties on the said goods; and the said defendant,
by his said counsel, did also then and there except to the aforesaid refusal of the said judge to decide the law of the case; and to
instruct and chaige the said jury in conformity with the prayerof the counsel of the said defendant, hereinbefore contained.
And the said defendant, by his said counsel, thereupon then
arid there further excepted to the decision of the said judge, in
admitting as evidence against the defendant the deposition of.

790

SUPREMfE COURT
Lawrence v. illen et a].

Samuel K. Appleton, and the parts thereof partictilarly objected
to by the said counsel, as hereinbefore mentioned; -and in admitting as e'vidence_ against the defendant the testimony of
James E. Smith, Amory- Edwards, George C. Wales, William
H. Edwards, and John L. Ripley, hereinbefore particularly objected to by the said counsel; and did also ftirther except to
the decision of the said judge in excluding the instructions of
the Comptroller of the Treasury, hereinbefore mentioned.
Upon this exception, the case came up to this court.
.It was very elaborately argued in print by. Mr. Butler and
Mr. Toucey, (Attorniey-Geheral,) for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. . Pr-escott Hall and Mr. Curtis, for the defendants in
error. These arguments would, of themselves, fill a hundred
pages, and the Reporter finds it difficult to select parts of them.
He is therefore reluctantly Compelled to o.mit the whole.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a writ of error to reverse a judgment in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York. That judgment
was rendered in favor of Allen et al., the original plaintiffs,
in a suit to recover back the amount of duties which Lawrence, the defendant, as collector of the port of New York, had
demanded and received on the importation of certain boxes of
India-rubber shoes, in September, A. D. 1845, and which the
importers claimed to be by law free. The duties were, therefore, paid under protest; and at the trial, the court, among other'
things, ruled, that, on the facts proved, these shoes were not, in
point of law, subject to any duty; and, consequently, a verdict
was returned for the plaintiffs below for the amount which had
been paid to the collector, and interest.
The facts proved or admitted, which appear material, were,
that these shoe.s consisted wholly of India-rubber, and in"different sizes, suited for men, women, and children; that no
othe work had been expended on them- except to dip the.
moulds or lasts into the milky liquid, 'as procured from the
"India-rubber trees,, and then dry them over a fire, -- performing
this process severMl times, till a proper thickness was obtained.
A small ornament was afterwards drawn on some of them, and
a coarse stuffing inserted in others, and in this conditibn they
had for many years been imported, and worn without any essential change or addition here, unless in some instances slightly
to trim' and stretch them on a last. It was also proved that
shoes, made in part from India-rubber and in part from cloth or
'leather, of a thinner and lighter fabric, had 'been. sometimes.
imported from .Eur~pe, and-for -several years had been extensively manufactured in this country.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

791

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

The law which- governs the question whether these shoes
ought to pay a duty of thirty per cent. ad valorem, or be admitted free, is the act of Congress of August 30, 1842 (5 Stat.
at Large, 555). In its fifth section, thirty per cent. is imposed
"on India-rubber oil-cloth, webbing, shoes, braces or suspenders, or other fabrics or manufactured articles, iomposed wholly
or in part of India-rubber." And in the nintli section, among
other articles declared to be -exempt froni duty," is cc Indiarubber, in bottles or sheets, or otherwise unmanufactured..
The court below entertained an opinion, that the clause in
this law imposing a duty of thirty per cent. on India-rubber
shoes referred to those made in a finished state from that material, after being altered in Brazil from its liquid condition to
the more.solid state, and to the forms of sheets, shoes, bottles,
&c:, and that this alteration was not hamanufacture, though
into a shape designed for use without any material change, and
hence, that shoes so made and imported were not dutiable.
This view was, undoubtedly, correct to a certain extent, and
in some aspects of the subject; but in others it seems to us to'
involve some errors, whibh we think ought- to be corrected, and
which require more extended explanations because overruling
the judgment below. Thus, although this act of Congress
clearly meant to impose a duty of thirty per cent. on shoes imported, which had been made in part from India-rubber after it
had been hardened and fashioned into some crude shape in
South America, yet we have no doubt it might likewise intend to impose this duty on shoes made abroad wholly from
India-rubber while in its liquid stal , and especially if,
when
so made, such shoes were in a condition to be worn .without
further material labor on them. here, and were made to be so
worn, and were in this form often actually worn.
It is our opinion, therefore, that the jury should have been
so.instructed; and if they were satisfied those shoes had been
thus made to be so worn, and, in the language of commerce, if
such shoes were called " India-rubber shoes," no less than those
made here or in Europe in part *fromIndia-rubber and in a more
finished form, that the duty of thirty per cent. ought to have
been paid on them.
Some of our reasons for this opinion are briefly these.
The articles imported in this case manifestly come within the
letter of the clause imposing a duty of thirty per cent. on CCIndiarubber shoes." They are "1India-rubber shoes." Being thus
.provided for as shoes, the subsequent clause, making certain articles free which were immanufactured, and not enumerating
shoes among them, cannot be -presumed to embrace or refer to
any thing already provided for. United States v. Clarke, 5

792

SUPR.EME

COURT.

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

Mason,, C. C. 30. Indeed, these shoes were more emphatically
India-rubber shoes, than those made only in part of that material, as are most, if not all, of those manufactured in this
Again, to remove difficulty in
country and in Europe.
many cases whether an article should come under the description of those liable to duty, there it is added, in the first clause,.
taxing them, '"manufactured articles composed wholly or in
part of Iridia-rubber" ; hnd, in this way, the duty extends to
any shoes. if a manufactured article, whether they be like these,
composed wholly of India-rubber, or, like most others, composed only in part of it.
Much more do the shoes in this case appear to come within
this provision in the act of Congres's imposing the duty of thirty
per cent., when we examine the spirit and object of that provision. To ascertain these with some degree of certainty, it may
be useful, in the first place, to advert a moment to the past, as
well as subsequent, legislation of Congress on this subject.
The import of India-rubber, in any form, into- this country,
does not appear to have attracted attention in the revenue laws,
as a' separate and specific article, till 1832. Before that, and
especially in the tariff acts of 1828, 1824, and 1816, all of which
are usually conceded to have looked to protection as well as revenue, India-rubber is not enumerated eo nomine as free or dutiable, and hence was taxed generally, from twelve and a half
to fiftegen per cent., among the non-enumerated articles (3 Stat.
at Large, 310; 4 Stat. at Large, t29 and 590). But in 1832,
when the policy had become changed to reduce an overflowing
revenue; by leaving free such unmanifactured articles as furnished raw materials to our own manufacturers, and such manufactured articles as did not compete with any made here, the
act of July 14th, 1832, § 3, exempted from duty. entirely
"India-rubber" (4 Stat. at Large, 590). In 1833' a like policy,
for a like reason, was pursued, and so in 1841, by expressions
in the former period placing "India-rubber" among the articles
free from duty (4 Stat. at. Large, 630), and in the. latter, making "India-rubber" still excepted from duty, though several
articles before free were then taxed (5 Stat. at Large, 463).
But in 1842, when the policy of the government again became
adapted to protection no less than revenue, the act now under
considerat.idn was-'shaped so as to tax whatev6r might compete
with-our-own, manifactirers, and to admit free only articles in
such sha-p4 ajt6rm as were .not calculated to rival our own.
Now beiori. 184., it is well known that the making of shoes in
part from ifiia-ribber, so as to be water-proof, had been invented, patented, and extensively practised in this country.
Colisequently, such-'a protective tariff as that introduced in

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

793

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

1842 would be likely to tax any foreign fabric which was, in
any considerable degree, a rival to the article made here for a
,ijmilar use. And, consequently, a foreign-made shoe, whether
"composed wholly or in part of India-rubber," was meant to
be taxed thirty pe cent., if, in either case, it was in a form
suited.tp be used as water-proof, was so designed and so used,
and this form would rival the shoe made here for a like
purpose.
In construing statutes, it is not only our duty to give effect
to all the words used in their ordinary sense, but to eviscerate,
if possible, their true spirit and intent from all the connected
circumstances, attendant or subsequent as well as preceding.
Bond v. Hoyt, 13 Pet. 273; 1 Kent's Com. 461.
The statute applicable directly to the present case being, in
some respects, awkwardly worded, "the design of it on this subje6t has been made more explicit and clear by the subsequent
act of July 30th, 1846, -changing the forms of expression to describe the articles intended to be taxed. Thus, it is there provided, ihat a duty of thirty per cent. be imposed on "braces,
suspenders, webbing, or other fabrics composed wholly or in
part of India-rubber, not otherwise provided for." And; to prevent-aiy misconception of the intention, it is added, under the
same schedule and rate of duty, "shoes composed wholly of
India-rubber."
It would also be very extraordinary if the spirit of the act of
1842, in its high protective policy, should not mean to tax the
foreign India-rubber shoe made wholly of India-rubber, when
it was, and still is, a most formidaole and successful rival to the
shoe made h'ere in part of the same sub'stance ; when* it was at
first, and for many years, the only shoe used here as waterproof; and when, under all patents and improvements since in
lightness and beauty, none seem able to surpass it now in dura-.
bility, ease, and economy combined.
But it is contended that the India-rubber shoe, as made in
Brazil and imported thence, is not a "manufactured article,'
and hence is not within the clause in the act of 1842 imposing
a auty of thirty per cent.. -It may be conceded that this duty'
applies only to such an article. Yet what constitutes a manufactured article?
In some instances, and for some purposes, it may be one kind
of process performed on what is found in a natural state, and
in some, another kind. Thus the juice of the maple or of the
cane is in some views manufactured when it is made into molasses or syrup, and in others, when again made into sugar or
spirit from molasses. And so the juice of the grape is in one
sense manufactured when converted into wine, and in another.
VOL. VI.'
67

794

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Allen et al.

when made into brandy. And so is lye from ashes, when boiled
down to potash or pearlash, manufactured into them. Here,
the juice or sap of the India-rubber tree, while liquid or in its
milky state, whether then called caoutchouc or some other
name, is still a natural substance, and in its natural form; and,
in one sense and to a certain extent, its being hardened and
changed in color, no less than consistency .and bulk, by fire
and evap6ration, whatever. new form it may then. be turned
into, is a manufacture. It .isso as much as butter or cheese.
is a manufacture from animal milk, or tar from turpentine, and
rosin from tar, Yet from the words of the law, as well as its
design, it is manifest that the India-rubber is not meant to be
taxed as a mahufacture, though so hardened and.dhanged, uness,
at thd same time, it is put into a shape which is suitable for use,
and adapted with a design, to be used in a way.that is calculated
to rival some doniestic manufacture here, rather thati'merely to
furnish a raw material in a more portable, useful, and convenient form for other manufactures here. In the latter case, within
the policy alid purpose of'the tariff law yielding protection, it
is "unmanufactured, "' or, in other words, not made abroad
for use in its existing form except as a raw material, like pigiron or pig-lead. But in the former case, within that policy
and purpose, it is "manufactured," as-it is made in a shape for
use as a manufacture without being afterwards materially
changed in form, and is designed to be so used, and hence
comes in as a competitor with our own manufactures.
After these, what requisite is wanting to bring it within the
spirit, no less than the letter, of the provision imposing a'duty ?
It has been changed, b# fire and labor, in its colo, consistency,
and fofme, from its natural state as the milk of the India-rubber
tree. It has been fashioned into an article of clothing, suitable
and customary to be worn in' its then shape. It is a rival to
other shoes inwde here.
These elements would, on principles of common sense, seem
to amount to a manufacture, and one, when imported .from
abroad, likely.to be taxed.
Going- to more technical definitions and to .first principles,
such a process to make the-shoe is making aii article by the
hand, which was once the literal meaning of the word manufacture, or manufactum, and in the more modern idea attached
to the word, it is making an article,'either by hand or machinery, into a new form, capable of being used, and designed to be
used,.in -ordinary life..
Indeed, these India-rubber -shoes were originally made in
.Brazil, not as a form..of gending abroad a raw material, to be
used for other purposes. But they w~re prepared as a shoe, to

JANUARY TERM, 1649.

795.

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

be worn in the shape as there finished, and for the purpose of
excluding water, -Travellers in Brazil described-the use of India-rutber there first, in the form of boots, because waterproof. 1 McCulloch's Dict. 311; Ure's Diet.
The shoe stcceeded to the boot, and its export in sheets also,
to be cut up. to rub out pencil-marks,,&c., gave to the substance itself the common name of India-rubber. Ibid.
In the form of the shoe, therefore, to be worn in Brazil or
elsewhere, because water-proof, it was a manufacture, and
one of such value for that purpose as to lead to a greatly increased expot of the article in that shape within the last
twenty years.
And as the invention was made, here and abroad, of thinner
and lighter shoes manufactured in part from it,. and of extending the-use of India-rubber to many new objects in dress and
the arts, the demand for it, in a state is hardened and colored, without regard to form, enlarged rapidly.
'Considering, too, that a mode of dissolving it here has been
discovered, and of easily, giving to it, afterwards, any desired
shape, it may be that shoes, no less hai sheets or. slabs of
India-rubber, in a -hardened form, become often, when convenitnt, melted down or dissolved, to be used for other purposes.
This might often be done with them, though a manufacture,
as their value per pound would vary but little, if any, from
India-rubber in- the shape of sheets, as the raw material of
which they were manufactured was the same, and as the expense of making them is similar, -one being done by several
dippings, like a candle, and the other liy several layers of the
gum or milk.
But this occasioial use of the shoes for other purposes than
wearing as water-proof shoes would not alter their original
character as a manufacture for the latter purpose, nor the importation and present character of them; as a manufacture for
the same purpose.
Thus the importation of cast-iron in kettles or handirons
in a state to be so used, -and frequently Oo used, would not
be altered, as a manufacture of that kind, and as subject to
pay the duty imposed on it in the tariff; because some of it,
after imported, might occasionally be melted down and recast,
and used for other or similar purposes.
Nor is the juice of the cane - converted into a different consistence and color abroad, and shipped here as molasses, ready
to be used, and often used as such - any the 'less a "manufactured' article," and any less subject to' the duty on molasses,
because some of it, after arriving in this qountry, may again be
manufactured into sugar or spirit.

796

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. Allen et al.

A further illustration as to the distinction between the same
articlb, put into a shape to be sold for use as it is, and into
one not for use as it is, is that of melted iron.
In that state it may be run in moulds, either for pots or for
igs, and, in the former case, fitted and sold to be used in that
shape, and hence a manufacture; while, in the latter, sold to be
made up afterwards into new and different forms, and hence,
for some purposes, is'then not regarded as a manufacture till
so made up.
So lead may be melted into the shape of pigs or bars, for exportation and for foreign manufacture, or be run into weights,
for use as weights, and then be regarded as already a 'manufacture for that purpose.
It is another evidence that shoes composed wholly of Indiarubber were considered by Congress as a manufactured article, that they place them in that category in the. tariff with
other clearly manufactured articles, while they place in the
category of those unmanufactured such articles as are not in a
shape to be used much, if at all, without being made up into
new forms. Thus it is with the India-rubber images of alligators and. lizards imported. If bottles are' an exception, -they
are specially enumerated in the tariff among the free articles,
inorder to be free, while shoes are not; and the former are go
enumerated, because usually made up here into new shapes, for
other pirposes, before used; and when not so made up, are little eniployed in their original shape, and have no rival manufacture to be protected by taxing them. Had Congress intended that shoes, when wholly of India-rubber, should be considered
as unmanufactured, and be free, it is difficult to conceive why
it did not place them in that list, and declare them unmanufactured and free, rather than in .thq list of manufactured and dutiable articles, as it did both in 4842 and again in the revised
act of 1846.
Finally, another circumstance exists, which appears to be a
decisive indication that this very importation of shoes, though
called in the invoice "unmanufactured," was meant mainly
as shoes for use, to be worn in their existing condition, rather
than to be dissolved and used for other purposes. It is, that
several of the boxes wete invoiced as shoes for "ladies," and
others . for _P misses," -.or children, and which different forms
or shapes -would be useless, as well as more expensive, if the
shoes were intended merely to be cut up or dissolved for other
uses, nd not to be worn by different. sexes and ages, as "manufaauied" shoes in their present shap'e.
In several analogous cases, as to teas, cotton bagging, and
sugar, this court has held, that it is a proper fact for the jury to

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

'797

Lawrence v. Allen et al.

decide, whether the imported article is or is not known in
commerce by the words or terms used in the tariff imposing
the duty, and not a question of law, to be settled by the court,
as was' done here. United States v. 112 Casks of Sugar, 8
Peters, 277; Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 151, 153; United
States v. Breed, 1 Sumner, 164; 9 Wheaton, 438.; Curtis v.
Martin, 3 Howard, 106.
Unless it be admitted in this case, then, as most of the testimony proves, that these shoes were known in a commercial
less than others,
sense and use as India-rubber shoes, -no
made in part from it,--we, think the jury should return a
verdict on that fact; and next, that the jury should have
been further instructed, that, if these shoes had been made into
their present shape in order to be worn as water-proof, when
the purchasers pleased, and that it was customary so to wear
them, they were within the meaning of the act of Congress on
this subject, "manufactured, ) and liable t6 pay a duty of
thirty per cent. Without going into other questions raised at the trial, and
without dwelling longer on this, our opinion is, that the judgment below must be.reversed, and a venire de novo awarded;
and the new trial be governed by the principles, here settled.
Order.
This cause came on to 'be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the.
Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now hire ordered and adjudged
-by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with instructions to award -a venire facias de
novo, and that the new trial shall be conducted in conformity.
to the principles laid down in the opinion of this court.

67*

