132

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

exercised by him, upon his own opinion of certain facts, it is
a sound rule of construction that the statutes constitute him
the sole and exclusive judge of the existence of these-facts."
"Every public officer is presumed to act in obedience to his
duty, until the contrary is shown."
Under these. established principles and precedents, it will be
seen that the rulings below must be held erroneous whenever
the court departed from them, and required the defendant, as"
on several occasions, to go, forward, and in the first- instance to
prove details rebutting any error or excess.
As, for illustration, to prove in the outset facts showing a
necessity to detain the plaintiff, before the latter had offered any
evidenc6 it was done from malice or without cause; or to prove
that the prison on shore. *ias safer and more'suitable for the

plaintiff's confinement than the vessels, under the peculiar circumstances then existing, until the plaintiff. had first shown
that no discretion existed in the defendant to place him there,
or that he did-it mald fide, or for purposes of cruelty and oppression; or to prove ti at the punishihent inflicted was not-,immoderate, and not unceasonable, when it is admitted to have
been within the limits of his discrjetion, as confided to him by
the articles for the government of the navy. On the contrary,
as has been shown, all his acts within the limits of the discretion given to him are to be regarded as rima facie right till
the opposite party disprove this presumption.
The judgment below must therefore be reversed, and a
venire de nova awarded, and the new trial be governed by the
principles here decided.

HUGH M.
OTHERS,

PATTON, ADMINISTRATOR, AND HUGH M. PATTON AND
HEIRS or ROBERT PATTON, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V.
JAMES TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATOR, AND JAiiES TAYLOR, JOHN W.
TIBBATTS AND ANN W. HIS WIFE, GEORGE T. WILLIAMSON AND
JANE M. HIS WIFE, AND HORATIO T. HARRIS AND KETURAH L.
HIS WIE, HEIRS (OFJAMES TAYLOR, DECEASED.

A bill in chancery filed by the purchaser-of land against his vendor, to restrain the
collection of the pnrchase-monev, upon the two grdunds of want of title in the
vendor and his subsequent insol ency, without charging fraud or misrepresentation, cannot be sustained.
Belief wi!tnot be given on the ground of fraud, unless it be made a distinct allegation
in the bill, so that it may be put in issue in the pleadings.
It was error in the court below to reject the testimony of an attorney upon the
ground of his being security for costs, when the party for whom he was security
had already obtained a judgment against his adversary, and also upon the ground

of his being intei~ested when he held certain notes only. for the purpose of paylAg
.the money over to his clients, when recovered.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

133

Patton et al v. Taylor et al.
THIS' was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kentucky, sitting as a court of
equity.
Patton was a citizen of Virginia, and Taylor of Kentucky.
On the 30th of January, 1818, Taylor aldressed a letter;
dated Frankfort, Kentucky, to Patton, in Virginia, in which he
gave an account of certain other lands, and then proceeded as
follows: "I shall go from this to Lexington, to the court which commences this week, and do what I think right. I think your
price too high for your land for me to make much, if any, profit
from it; but must conclude to take it at five thousand dollars,
for the two tracts of 1000 acres each, payable- one half in one
year from the time you send me the deed, and the other half
in two years from thht time; I mean the two tracts entered and
surveyed in the name of Thos. Gaskins; it appears to have
been patented in.the name of Hicks & Campbell; you can
have the deed made out, as I suppose you have the patents,
and I suppose the chain of title, which it will be necessaiy to
forward, also to be recorded here, if it is not done; I shall
expect a general warranty deed, expressing more or less as. to
the mode of authenticating the deed; our mutual friend, Col.
Mercer, can give you information if you should be at loss, as he
has conveyed to me several times. The land lies in the Virginia military district, and in the county of Hopkins. I presume you will have no objection to making the conveyance,
and' taking my bonds; and indeed this shall oblige me to consider the contract binding on me, as above stated, on receiving
the deed as aforesaid for the said land, payable as aforesaid.
"If you want any security, or.a mortgage, say so."
The letter then proceeded to speak of other matters. It may
be proper to remark, that it was contended in the argument,
that, in transcribing and printing, an error had occurred in the
punctuation. The words "if it is not done", belonged, it
was said, to the words which follow them, viz. "I shall expect," &c., which, it was argued, would materially changethe meaning.
On the 13th of July, 1818, Patton replied, by a letter from
which the following is an extract : -

"Fredericksburgi.13th July, 1818.
"GEN. JAMYs TAYLOR : -

"Dear Sir, - I am favored with yours bf the 22d of June,
and not less surprised than you seem td be about the 2,000
acres of land, in name of Thomas Gaskins, offered you, the
17th of March last year, at 15s. peIr acre; and, in yours of -the
VOL. VII.
12

134

SUPREME

COURT.

Patton et al. v. Taylor

e

t al.

5th of July, vou advise me to take $ 4,000, as the lands in that
quarter were generally of an inferior quality, and could not rise
in value.- In that month I wrote to you that I would not take
less than 15s. per acre; to this letter, though one was requested, I never had any reply, nor did you ever say you would accept, my offer, until the 30th of January, six months after the
last offer was made, for the letter of the 18th of December was
only putting you in mind of the offer made in July. This letter, will candidly acknowledge, I did not remember having
written, not having kept any copy. There is something in the
extended delay of your answer which I do not like, nor do I
think it right; but I am anxious to avoid all misunderstanding,
and, during my whole life, have never stood on trifles. You
may, therefore, have the laud at 17s. per acre, one half payable
in twelve months from the time my offer was renewed, and the
remainder twelve months afterwards. Your own bonds will
be considered as sufficient security for the amount. By this
decision I am placed in an awkward situation with the young
man with whom I made a conditional contract, and who has
not, as I am informed of, returned from that county.
"The land patents are in the name of Thomas Gaskins, for
whose services the land was rendered, were by him conveyed to
William Forbes, and by him to Hicks & Campbell, of whom I
received and will give you a deed, with a warranty, as soon
as you reply to this letter. I hope Willis's representatives will
not buy, and you are at liberty to take any lot you think best,
but I will not take 15s. for any part of it."
On the 3d of September, 1818, Patton and wife executed a
deed in fee simple to Taylor for the land in question, with a
covenant for further assurances and-a general warranty.
The bonds for the purchase-money appear to have been previously executed, and were as follows, viz.: "I, James Taylor, of the county of Campbell, and State of
Kentucky, do oblige myself, my heirs and administrators, to
pay to Robert Patton, of the town of Fredericksburg, and State
of Virginia, the. sumn of $ 2,500, in current money, on the 20th
day of January, 1819, as witness my hand and seal, this 5th
Jmias TAYLOR.
day of August, 1818.
"Witness: PrnLIP H. JONES."
On which there were the following receipts, to wit:
Receiptfor $ 600.
"July 1st, 1817, received from James Taylor the sum of six
HUGH M. PATTON."
hundred dollars of the within.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Patton et aL v. Taylor et -i.

"By direction of Hugh M. Patton, agent of Robert.Patton,
the within note is credited with $ 450, as due January 30,
1819; and I this day received from James Taylor three hundred
and seventy-three and eighty-two hundredths dollars, NovemT. F. TALBOTT,
Attorney for Robert Patton."

ber 19, 1819.

$373

.

"I, James Taylor, of the county of Campbell, and State of
Kentucky, do oblige myself, my heirs and administrators, to
pay Robert Patton, his heirs or assigns, of the town of Fredericksburg, and State of Virginia, the sum of $ 2,500, in current
money, on the 30th January, 1820, as witness my hand and
seal, this 1st day of July, 1818.
"JAMs

TAYLoR. [sEAL.]"

On which there was the following assignment, to wit

-

Assignment.
"For value received, I assign the within bond to Theo. F.
ROBERT PATTON,
Talbott.
By H. M. Patton,his Att'y in fact.
"July 1st, 1819."
In May, 1819, Hugh M. Patton, the son and agent of Robert
Patton, went to Kentucky, and there executed'the assignment
above mentioned to Talbott, as security for a debt due by Robert Patton, and for the collection of which Talbott was the
attorney.

On the 23d of October, 1819, Taylor addressed to Patton the
following letter:

-

"Newport, October 23d, I819.
"Sir, -At the time you forwarded me the deed for the land
I bought of you in the county of Hopkins, patented to Thos.
Gaskins, you sent me nothing to show how the title had passed
to you. The land is listed on the auditor's books for taxes in
the name of Thomas Southcombe, and for a number of years
I have paid the taxes in his name for you. When your son,
Hugh M. Patton, your agent, was here, I inquired of him how
you derived your title from Southcombe, and whether he had
a regular conveyance from Gaskins. He told me that you had
some kind of transfer from Southcombe for all his debts, lands,
&c., but did not seem to know much about it, but promised
me, immediately on his getting home, to inform you of my
uneasiness and doubts whether the chain -of title was perfect,
and to notify me, and indeed to request of you: to send me a
copy of the different conveyances, or, if they were in this
county, to inform ma where they could be found. I have not

136

SUPREME COURT.
Patton e-t a]. v. Taylor et al.

had a line fiom either 'of you since his return. I also consider
myself very badly treated on another score. Your 'son had
drawn a bill for $ 300, in favor of Talbott, of Lexington, on
which he procured Mr. Talbott to be indorser; and, to indemnify him for' doing so, he had lodged with him my bond to
you for the first payment of the said land. Your son wished
to get the bond released, and requested of me to give Mr.
Talbott a guarantee that the bill should be duly honored.
This I did not hesitate to do. A few weeks ago I received a
notification from the F. and M. Bank of Lexington, that the
bill, although accepted by you, had been returned to the bank
protested for non-payment; and I am called on by Mr. Talbott
to take up the bill, and relieve him. I made every exertion in
my power, when your son was here, to aid him in discharging
a debt due here, which was in the hands of Mr. Talbott for
collection, and was largely in advance for your taxes in this
State and Ohio. The times, as to a good circulating medium,
are truly embarrassing; but, had I been sure the title to the
land sold me had been secure, I could have made sales to have
met the payments, or nearly so; but I have been deterred from
selling one acre, although offered the specie funds for a considerable purchase. Taking the whole transaction together, I
must confess it is not such 'as I expected from Mr. Robert
Patton 6f Fredericksburg. If there lfad been any little defect
in the title to this land, which can bed removed, and-I had been
notified of it and had it explained, I should not have been disposed to. throw difficulties in the way, if there was a prospect
to have any difficulty removed. When I go up, I shall have
the records examined, and, if no chain of title can be found, I
shall refuse to pay any more money iill these difficulties are
removed. I am sure you cannot think I am acting incorrectly
in the course I am about to pursue. I am, Sir, your obedient
servant,
J&is TAYLOR.
" ROBERT' PATT0N, EsQ."
On the 29th of February, 1820, Taylor addressed to Patton
the fo]lo ving letter: " Washington City, February29, 180.
"ROBERT PATTON, EsQ. :,"Sir : - I wrote you from Newport, Ky., last fall, requesting
information whether the conveyances had been regular from
the original patentee, Thos. Gaskins, for the two thousand
acres of land. sold me by you, lying in Hopkins county, on
the waters of Pogue's Creek, and which I understood you purchased of Thos. Southcombe, to wthich letter I am without an
answer, and at which I confess I am much surprised. I ex-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

137

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

amined the records at Frankfort, Ky., and it appears to me the
conveyances are regular down to Southcombe; and, if you
have a proper conveyance from him (Southcombe), all will be
right, I thiuk. I assure you I wish you and myself to arrange
our bhsiness in the most amicable manner; but you must bo
sensible into what difficulties I was thrown by not receiving
the wished-for information, -which was promised me by your
son and agent, Hugh M. Patton, Esq, and then. requested of
you in my letter aforesaid, addressed to you specially on the
subject, and particularly, when I was compelled to take up
your said son's. bill for 300 and odd dollars, which I had, at
the request of your said son, guaranteed should be paid by
you, which you. failed to do, and which I had to pay, to exonerate Theo. F. Talbott, in the F. and M. Bank of Lexington.
.The true state of this business I did not understand till after
I had paid the bill, and I do not think said Talbott treated
either yourself or myself with fairness; as he afterwards
informed me he was authorized to redraw,- but which he told
me he had no idea of doing, to make himself responsible.
Under all these enibarrassments, I informed you I could not
think of selling the land, until I'was assured the legal title was
in you before you sold to me. Will you be good enough to
give my agent, Philip H. Jones, the necessary information,
and, if you have them, the proper conveyance from Thos.
Southcombe to you for the said tract of land; and, if not, to
send me the document, or an autienticated- copy of -it, under
-which you claim the said tract of land. I am, very respectfully, Sir, your obedient servant,
JAMEs TAYLOL"
On the 20th of June, 1820, Patton addressed the following
letter to Taylor, which closed the correspondence: "Fredericksburg, 20th June, 1820.
"GEN. JAMwes TAYLOR :"Dear Sir, - Hearing of.your being in Washington in the
spring, and calculating on a certainty of seeing you in this
place, I was greatly disappointed at not having had some conversation with You during your stay, or previous to your departure from the city. By a letter just received from Mr.
Talbott, covering a duplicate of. one of yours to him of the
1st instant, wherein you say you will resist the payment of the
bonds assigned Talbott by my son, when in Kentucky. This
information has surprised and astonished me much.. And
surely, my dear Sir, you will not persist in this course, but, on
mature consideration, pay the amount.
When I sold you
these 2,000 acres of land, Southcombe had long been 'dead;
hence, as his agent, which you know I was, I could not make
12*

138

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

a deed as such, buf I did what you required. I made you
a deed in my own name, with a general -warranty, and no
objection was made to this conveyance -until the' money was
required. I sent you the original patents by Murdock Cooper,
of your State, and I now subjoin a short history of this land.
Your 2,000 acres, together with 1,500 more, were granted Col.
Gaskins for military services, by him sold to William Forbes,
by Forbes sold to Robert Campbell, of Richmond, (once Hicks
& Campbell,) and by Robert Campbell and Anni his wife,
conveyed to Thomas Southcombe; which last deed is in my
possession. All Southcombe's matters have been settled long
ago, when this-land was rated at- $2, and paid for by me.
And there is not a human being has a shadow of claim to
this land but myself; and I have secured it t.o you by my conveyance. We have long been acquainted; we have long been
friends. You have acted as my agent much to my -satisfaction; and I ever reposed the fullest confidbnce in your honor
and integrity. Under these circumstances, it would give me
great pain if any misunderstanding should arise between us;
and I cannot help thinking that, on due consideration, you will
change your course, and pay the bonds assigned Talbott,
which was done under very peculiar circumstances, and may
have placed that gentleman in a- very disagreeable situation
.respecting them. I am, dear Sir, your most obedient servant,
ROBERT PATTON."

On the 7th of July, 1820, Patton brought a suit against
Taylor upon the bonds, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Kentucky, and, at November term, 1820, obtained
judgment by default.
At the same term, viz. November, 1820, Taylor filed his
bill on the equity side of the court, reciting the purchase and
continuing thus "And at the time of the purchase aforesaid, and the execution of the said promissory notes, your orator entertained no
doubt that the said Patton had a good title to the said land,
and was enabled to convey the same to your orator; but now,
so it is, may it please your honors, your orator has since discovered that the said Patton has no title for the said land from
the said Southcombe, who is dead, and whose heirs are unknown to your orator. That the said Patton has nevertheless
coinmenced actions on the said notes, on the common law side
of this court. And your orator, being unable to make defence
at law, the said Patton has recovered judgments on the said
notes. Your orator annexes hereto, as a part of this bill, a
letter from the -said Patton, acknowledging his defective title to

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

139

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

the said land. That your orator has already made sundry payments on account of said notes. And he apprehends that the
said Patton will proceed to enforce payment of the residue,
unless prevented by the interposition of this honorable court,
which would be contrary to equity. In tender consideration
whereof," &c., &c.
The bill then prayed for an injunction, which was granted.
In December, 1822, Patton filed his answer, admitting he
had no legal title to *the land, but insisting that he'had bought
it from Southcombe, and paid him for it on a final settlement
of their affairs; that he had a power of attorney from Southcombe to sell it, which he did not act upon, owing to Southcombe's death; that he-took possession of the land more than
twenty years past. paid the taxes regularly, till he sold to
Taylor, who entered and has held the possession evdr since,
and has. sold part of the land; that Taylor was for years his
agent to pay taxes on his lands in Kentucky, knew his titles
generally, and particularly the defect of the title to this land,
and bought relying upon his warranty; and that the posses:ion under him prevented arny reasonable apprehension from
adverse claims. The answer further alleged, that, hbving received a paymeint of part of the first note on the 1st of July,
1819, the defendant thereupon, with the consent and in the
presence of Taylor, assigned the notes to T. F. Talbott, to be
applied in payment of a debt held by Witherspoon, and relies
that the assignment prevents a cancelment of the notes.
At the .May term, 1823, Taylor filed an amended billi
charging that the purchase was by letter; that Patton'had
become insolvent, having been at the time of -sale a man of
wealth; and eihibiting copies of three letters addressed by
him to Patton of the 30th January, 1818, 23d October, 1819,
and 29th February, 1820, and calling upon Patton to produce
the originals or to admit the copies to be correct, and to show
what evidence he had of a conveyance from Southcombe.
Robert Patton having died, Taylor, in November, 1829,
filed a bill of revivor against Hugh M. Patton and others, his
children and heirs at law, alleging that their ancestor died
insolvent and intestate, and that no administration had been
granted upon his estate.
The heirs of Robert Patton 'answered in July, 1844, and
stated that they knew nothing of the contract between Taylor
and their father; and that they adopted the answer of the
latter. Hugh M. Patton stated, that, as the agent of his father,
he went to Kentucky to pay off a decree, which had been obtained by Bledsoe's heirs, and assigned to Talbott, an attorney
at law, in satisfaction of a debt to Witherspoon and Muirhead;

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

that he received from Taylor $ 600 on the first note, and
then drew upon him, in favor of Talbott, a draft, which he
would not adcept; and that he afterwards assigned the notes
to Talbott, without having heard of any objection by Taylor
to the title of the land. And In conclusion, the heirs all say
that they cannot exhibit the originals of the letters shown by
Taylor; nor have they any testimony, written or other, to show
in what mainer their father derived his title from Southeombe,
other than he states in his answer.
In November, 1844, Hugh M. Patton appeared in the suit as
administrator of his father, and adopted the answer already
filed as his response in that character.
In May, 1845, the'cause came on for hearing, a general replication having been filed.
On-the opening of the cause, the complainant moved the
court to reject. and, suppress the deposition of Theodore F.
Tilbott, taken and filed on the part of the. defendants, and
when it was offered on their part for proof, objected to its being
read, on the ground that the witness was, when he depased,
interested in the event of the suit against him, the complainant, and with the defendants; and, for proof of his ground
of objection, relied on the matter stated by thp witness himself, in his deposition, and read the bond of the witness, as the
surety of the defendants' intestate and ancestor, for costs, in
his action at law against the complainant, wherein the judgment herein enjoined was recovered by default; afid also read
the assignment to the witness of one of the promissory notes
of the complainant' the one payable on the 30th of January,
1820, on which the judgment enjoined was rendered 'inthese
words:-"For value received, I assign the within note to Theodore
ROBERT PATTON,F. Talbott.
By HUGH. M. PATToN, his attorney in fact.
"July 1st, 1819."
But the decision of the matter not havig been insisted on,
it was reserved for discussion, with the merits of the cause.Whereupon, the complainant read the depositions of Matthew
T. Scott, Pattersoi Bayne, and.James E. Davis, for. proof that
the witness was not credible, in case of the decision of thecourt that he is competent to testify.' Whereupon the cause
progressed, and this matter having been therein fully discussed,
and the court now sufficiently advised thereof, it seems to the
court that the deposition of Talbott, on the grounds of objections by the comp ninant, and because the matters stated as'
facts by the -itness, neither of themselves, nor in connection

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

141

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

with the other proofs, are in any way material in the cause,
ought to be rejected and disregarded. But in order that, on
any revision of the decree which shall be rendered, the defendants may have the benefit of the matters stated in the deposition, if worth to them any thing, and the witness is competent,
whilst the complainant has the benefit of his objections to the
competency of the witness, or of his proofs to establish that he
is not credible, the depositions-are all allowed and read, subject
to the above 'objections, and so retained in the record, to be respectively good for what they are worth, or held for naught,
according to the law of the case.
On the 13th of May, 1845, the Circuit Court decreed a perpetual injunction against Patton, rescinded the sale and conveyance of the land, and gave directions for placing the parties in
the condition they were in at the -time of the contract.
From this decree the heirs of Patton appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. A. I. Lawrence and . s.
Morehead,with whom was Mr. Badger, for the appellants, and
by Mr. Loughborough and Mr. Underwood, with whom was
Mr. Ewing, for the appellees.
The argument on the part of the appellants was as follows: This is a bill for the rescission of an executed contract for
the sale of land, on the, ground of defect of title and the insolvency of the vendor. No mistake, no fraud, no misrepresentation being set forth 6s the grounds of equitable interference;
but the facts that the complainant had received a defective title
with warranty, not knowing of the defect, and that the warrantor had since become insolvent, are relied on as the reasons
for the interposition of a court of equity.
I. The first position which the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error take is, that there are not set forth in the original and
amended bill sufficient legal grounds to rescind an executed
contract; and that, if every allegation therein had been admitted by the defendant, the court could not properly have decreed
according to the prayer of the complainant.
I. The second position is, that the important allegations in
the bill, though they should in themselves be deemed sufficient
in law, have neither been admitted nor sustained by proof.
The first proposition, then, is, that there are not sufficient
grounds set forth in the bill and its amendment for the rescission of an executed contract, even if all the allegations had been
admitted in the answer.
What are those allegations? Why, that the complainant.
Taylor, purchased from Patton, the defendant, 2,000 acres of

142

SUPREME COURT.
Patton *ital. v. Taylor et al.

'land for $ 51000, for which he gave two several promissory
notes. That Patton executed a conveyance to complainant for
said land, with a covenant of general warranty. - That at the
time of said purchase, complainant "entertainea no doubt that
the said Patton had a good title to the said land." That complainant has since discovered that the said Patton has no title
to the said land, and that defendant has nevertheless commenced actions on the said notes; and that, at the time of said purchase, defendant was supposed to be a man of opulence, but has
since become insolvent. This embraces every material averment of the bill and amendment. A purchase, conveyance
with general warranty, defect of title, ignorance on the part of
the vendee of such defect, and the insolvency of the vendor,
compose the gravamen of the complainant's allegations. There
is no charge, either technically or substantially, of fraud, artifice, misrepresentation, or circumvention of any sort, actual or
constructive.

In discussing the legal sufficiency of this bill, we leave out
of view all of the cases cited in the printed brief on the other
side, in which misrepresentation, or fraudulent concealment, or
fraud of any kind, formed an element. For the present we
take the bill as it is.
The decisions (and we quote, more especially, those in Kentucky) may be reduced to the following heads, as to the rescission of contracts in the absence of fraud: 1st. Where the contract is executory, the vendee may, under
circumstances, obtain a rescission, if the vendor has no title.
Miller v. Long,. 3 Marsh. 326; Cummins v. -Boyle, 1 J. J.
Marsh. 481; Gale v. Conn, 3 J. J. Marsh. 540; Payne v. Cabell, 7 Monr. 202; Waggener v. Waggener, 3 Monr. 556.
2d. Where the contract is executed by conveyance, with
warranty of title, there can be no rescission in any case that
has not been tainted by fraud. Simpson v. Hawkins, 1 Dana,
305; 1 J. J. Marsh. 481; Gale v. Conn, 3 J. J. Marsh. 540;
Wiley v. Fitzpatrick, 3 J. J. Marsh. 583; Campbell v. Whittingham, .5 J. J. Marsh. 100; 7 Monr. 202; Thompson v. Jackson, 3 Rand. 504.
3d. There is no relief in equity, by injunction or otherwise,
where the contract has been executed by conveyance with warranty, and the vendee let into possession, unless the warranty
has been broken, and an eviction taken place. Simpson v.
Hawkins, .1 Dana, 305, 328; Rawlins v. Timberlake, 6 Monr.
232; Taylor v. Lyon, 2 Dana, 278; Luckett v. Triplett's
Adm'r, 2 B. Monr. 403 Bumpns v. Platner, 1 Johns. Ch. 218;
Abbot v. Allen, 2 Johns. Ch. 523; Edwards v. Morris, 1 Ohio,
532.

JANUARY TERM,

1849.

143

Patton et al. v, Taylor et al.

4th. There may be relief in equity of some sort, as by arresting the payment of the purchase-money, or a part thereof,
in case of eviction and the insolvency of the warrantor, or the
appropriation of the purchase-money to remove an incunbrance: where the warrahtor is insolvent and unable to remove
it, but not a rescission of the contract. Morrison's Adm'r v.
Beckwith, 4 Monr. 76; Rawlins v. Timberlake, 6 Mour. 232;
Simpson v. Hawkins, 1 Dana, 305; 2 Dana, 278, 279; 2 B.
Monr. 40.
5th. Possession taken generally amounts to a waiver of the
ordinary equitable right of objection to the title. Calcraft v.
Roebuck, 1 Yes. jr. 226; Burrough v. Oakley, 3 Swanst. 168;.
Fleetwood v. Green, 15 Yes. jr. 594; Margravine v. Noel, 1
Mad. 316; Burnell v. Brown, 1 Jac. & Walk. 173; Flyder v.
Cocker, 12 Yes. jr. 26.
II. But suppose we are wrong in this view of the case, still
it is contended that the essential allegations in the -bill have
neither been admitted nor proved; or, in other words, that,
upon the pleadings and proof, the complainant was not entitled
to the relief sought.
A preliminary inquiry of importance arises as to the admissibility and effect of the letters contained in the record.
The only letters alleged to have passed between Patton and
Taylor, which have been so proved as to make them legal evidence against the defendant, are those marked A and B, on
pages 32 and 33 of the record. The letter in Patton's name,
which is made an exhibit in the case, and is found on page 4
of the record, is not proved to have been written by Patton;
and the letters from Taylor, alleged copies of which are filed as
exhibits with the amended bill, and are found on- pages 8, 9,
10, and 11 of the record, are not proved either to have been
written or received. They are, consequently, not evidence in
the case. They are not admitted ii the answer to the amended bill, and are consepuently denied, and are no proof against
the defendant, though (being allegations of the complainant)
they are evidence in his favor. 2 Dan. Ch. Pr. 974- 976 i
Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch, 51.
If we are right in this, then the complainant's case is stripped
of every vestige of support from evidence as to the essential allegations of the bill.
But we go further, and assert, that if these letters were all
proved, as alleged, the case of the complainant would not bq
materially changed.
How would the case then stand upon the pleadings and
proof? The vital allegation in the bill is, that, at the time of
the purchase, complainant "entertained no doubt that Patton

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

had a good title to s'aid land," but has since discovered that he
had none, &c. (Record, p. 3.)
The answer (p. 6) denies the allegation of ignorance of the
defect on the part of the complainant, and avers, on the .contrary, that he was his (Patton's) agent for many years; well
knew the nature of his titles in general, and well knew the title
to these 2,000 acres in particular; and was well apprised of the
defective link in the chain of title thereto; and accepted a deed
with general warranty, relying on the warranty, &c.
Here, then, the parties are at issue. The complainant al-.
leges that he was ignoiant of any defect in the defendant's
title, and the defendant positively denies that allegation. Has
the complainant proved it, even admitting all the letters in the
record to be properly in the case ? We think that not only has
he failed to prove the allegation, but that the evidence in the
case fully sustains the denial.
There is not one scintilla of direct evidence that the complainant made this puichase in ignorance of the title. And the
only indirect or circumstantial evidence of that fact is, th
general presumption that a man would not buy a defective
title, knowing it to be so, and the literal construction of a letter
of the 13th July, 1818. -(Record, p. 32.)
That letter is not (like the others) an exhibit in the case, but is introduced on proof of handwriting. It is relied on in the
brief on the other side as the main prop of the complainant's
case. An interpretation is given to it entirely different -from
that which we shall hereafter show properly belongs to it;
but take it as the other side understand it, and does it support
the allegation in the bill, that Taylor was ignorant .of the state
of Patton's title? What is their interpretation of it ? Why,
they make it amount to a misrepresentation by Patton to Taylor respecting the title; they make it amount to an assertion
that he (Patton) had a conveyance of the land to himself.
Now, suppose the letter does amount to a misrepresentation of
the title (which we deny), does that prove Taylor's ignorance
of the real state of the title at the tine of the purchase ? We
think not, for tvwo reasons 1st. That there is no logical or legal connection between the
falsehood of one party and the belief of the other party in that
falsehood. It is a non sequitur, as well in law as in morals,
that a man must be ignorant of the truth because another man
has uttered an untruth in his presence.
2d. '1ecause this letter was written six mo4ths after the time
when the bargain was concluded by the acceptance of Patton's
previous offer.
The amended bill alleges (Record, p, 8) that the complainant

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

agreed to the purch e by a letter dated 30th January, 1818,
and exhibits a copy of the letter; and yet the brief on the other
side asserts that it was the letter of the 13th of July, 1818,
*ihich induced Taylor to make the purchase, which Taylor
himself says he had made by letter the January previous, and
produces the letter to prove it.
It is manifest, then, that the complainant has utterly failed.
to prove the most important allegation in his bill.
Having thus shown that the complainant's case, as set forth
in his bill, is not sufficient in law for the rescission of ati executed contract, and that, if it were, 4t is not supported by requisite proof, we would now ask the attention of the court to a
position taken by the other side, in the printed brief, though
not disclosed by the pleadifigs.
It is, that the proof presents a clear case of actual fraud, such
as courts of equity have always recognized as sufficient in itself for the setting aside of any contract.
To this view of the case .wehave several answers, either of
which in itself would be sufficient: 1st. Fraud is not alleged in the bill,- either formally or in
substance; and, consequently, if it should be proved, cannot be
made the ground .of a decree. It should have been put in issue
by the pleadings. Vattier v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 282; Boone v.
Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Bein v. Heath, 6 How. 241; also, 3 Rand.
507; 5 Johns. Oh. 82, 83; 11 Yes. 239.
2d. There is nothing proved which is a sufficient ground for
the cancelling of an executed contract, even admitting all the
letters to. be properly in the case.
We take the law as it is laid down by this court in Smith v.
Richards, 3 Pet. 36, adopting the views of Justice Story in 1
Eq. Jur., §§ 200, 202. That a misrepresentation, in order to
constitute a fraud relievable in equtty, must be-of something
material, constituting an inducem6nt or motive .to the act or
omission of the other, and by which he is actually misled .to
his injury; and it must be of .something in which the other
party places a known trust and confidence in the,other, and
not equally open to both parties for examination and inquiry.
Let us apply this doctrine to the facts in this case.
The only representation of any sort, as to title on the part
of Patton, to be found in the whole record, is the letter of July
13th, 1818.
In this letter Patton says: -" The land patents are in the
name of Thos. Gaskins, for whose services the land was rendered, were by him
to Wm.Forbes, and by him to
Hicks & Campbell, of whom I received, and will give you adeed, With a warranty, as soon as you reply to this letter."
voL. vI1.
13

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

On this leftey Mr. Loughborough -relies to make out his
proof of fraud; and in it (if anywhere) resides all the misrepresentation to be found in the case.
With regard to this letter, we would first remark, that the
character and relation of the parties, and the circumstances of
the case, go strongly to show that it never was intended by the
writer, and was never understood by him to whom it was written, to convey the idea which a casual reading of it might convey to a stranger. There were relations between these parties.
which rendered an indistinct allusion as intelligible as a labored
explanation. Taylor was the agent of Patton, who, in regard
to these lands, was himself the agent of Southcombe, in whose
name these lands had for years stood and been taxed, and in
whose name Taylor himself had for years paid those taxes.
Patton knew that Taylor was aware of Southcombe's title, and
yet he. sets down and writes to Taylor a letter, which, if it
meant what the other side suppose, lie well knew Taylor would
at once perceive to be false. If the expression "to Hicks &
Campbell, of whom I received, and will give you a deed, with
a warranty," means that Hicks & Campbell had conveyed this
land to him in his own name, why, it was not only a falsehood,
but the most idle of all falsehoods, because told to a man who
he knew was perfectly aware of the intermediate title of Southcombe. The parties to this transaction were no higglers for a
bargain; they were men of character and standing; they were
men of sense. The construction, then, which would- make a
single expression in a hasty letter the- ground of so serious an
accusation against such a person should be an unavoidable construction. Such is not the case here. There is a plain and
fair construction of this expression, which is consistent with
the truth and the good faith of Patton. It is the literal meaning of the language. * He did receive a deed from Hicks &
Campbell, not in his own name, but in the name of his principal, Southcombe; and he means exactly what he meafis in the
letter found on the 4th page of the record, where he says,
"and by Robert Campbell and Anne, his wife, conveyed to
Thomas Southoombe; which last deed is in my possession."
. If, then, it had been his intention to deceive Taylor, would
he not have said that he had a deed from Southcombe, rather
than from Hicks & Campbell? How, then, was the matter.to
be explained-? Why, Patton was Southcombe's'agent, and
Taylor knew it, with a full power of attorney to sell lands.
As such agent, he had received a deed for Southcombe; and,
as such agent, he then had the power to give, a deed. Had
Sputhcombe lived, there would never have been any difficulty.
Bt Southcombe having -died, and of -course the power of at-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

147

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

torney having died with him, Patton, who had iinthe mean
time bought the lands, and acquired an equitable title thereto,
had not procured a legal title.
There can be no doubt that this is the true explanation, from
the character of the men and their relation to each other; and
there can be no doubt that it was so understood by them at the
time, and afterwards, inasmuch as Taylor never once alludes to
any misrepresentation in this letter; never speaks of any inconsistency between the letter and Patton's statement of the
chain of title in his letter of June 20th, 1820-; takes no notice
of any misrepresentation, either in his original or amended bill;
does not even make this letter an exhibit in the case; and always speaks afterwards of Southcombe's title as a matter well
known to him. We think, therefore, that we are justified in
asserting that the cqnstruction now put by counsel upon. that
letter was not. that wvhich the parties put upon it.
But if an unfavorable construction of this letter is insisted
on (as it doubtless will be), then we say that Taylor was not
misled or deceived by it. It stated what he knew to be false.
It gave a chain of title without embracing Southcombe's title
at all, and yet Taylor had the best reason in the world for
knowing that Southcombe had until recently, and for years,
been the owner of the-land in controversy.
Taylor, in his letter dated October 23d, 1819, says,
The
land is listed on the auditor's books for taxes in the name of
Thomas Southcombe, and for a number of years I have paid
the taxes in his name for you."
Also, in his letter of February 29th, 1820, he says, - "I
wrote you from Newport, Ky., last fall, requesting information
'whether the conveyances had been regular from the original
patentee, Thos. Gaskins, for the two thousand acres of land
sold me by you, &c., and which I understood you purchased
of Thomas Southcombe," &c.
And the deposition of Winston says that, in 1815, "I was
requested to visit said lands by General James Taylor, who
acted as agent for Robert Patton, of Fredericksburg, Virginia,
who was agent for Thomas Southcombe."
Taylor then knew that Patton had not, in his own name,
received a deed from Hicks & Campbell, but that, if he had any
valid conveyance at all, it must have been from Southcombe.
And further, if the letter 6f July 13th, 1818, contained a
downright misrepresentation, still it did not lead to, nor form
any inducement to, the contract sought to be cancelled.
We have already referred to the allegation in the amended
bill, commencing as follows: - "Your orator further shows,
that the contract for the purchase of the land from the defend-"

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

ant was made between the parties by letters; yourorator dgreeing to the purchase by a letter, under date.of January 30th,. 1818
addressed to the defendant at Fredericksburg." Here, then,
the complainant himself avers that he had agreed to the* contract six months prior to this letter of July 13th, 1818. Admitting, then, that this letter of,July 13th contained a downright falsehood, and admitting that at the time Taylor believed
it, still it did riot lead to the contract; it did not form an inducement on Taylor's part to that contract, and can therefore
have no weight with the court upon the question of rescinding
thatcontract.
But it is further maintained, that Taylor has an indefeasible'
title, by twenty years' hdverse possession.
Taylor received legal possession of the land with his deed,
which bears date September 3d, 1818, and has never been disturbed in his possession up to the day of trial.
In an analogous case, Jarboe v. McAfee's Heirs, 7 B. Monr.
282, the following language is used: 2_,"In the duration of the
possession, it ought to be brought up to the time of trial, and
not toobe made stop at the commencement of the suit." The
possession of the vendee up to that period inures to the benefit*
of, and goes to strengthen, his vendor's title. See Voorhies v.
White's Heirs, 2 A. K. Marsh. 28; Coussmaker v. Sewall, 2
Sug. App. 336.
The sdle of a portion of the land, for the direct tax, and the
marshal's deed to McLean, can present no difficulty in the case.
It shows on its face that the land was sold as the property of
Gaskins, the patentee, when all parties agree, and the, record
shows, that it was then the property of Southcombe, entered in
his name, and the taxes paid for him by Taylor himself.
If this were not the case, it is not shown that the requisitions of the law were complied with by the" marshal, and the
law is well settled that no presumption is indulged in favior of
such a deed. See Tayldr's Heirs v. Whiting, 2 B. Monr. 269272; 9 Cranch, 69 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 271 -274 ; ib. 395
In the case of lands sold for the non-payment of taxes, the
marshal's deed is not even primti facie evidence that the prerequisites of the law have been complied with; but the party
claiming tinder it must show positively that they have been
complied with. Williams v. Peyton, 4. Wheat. 77.
The case thus far has been discussed without reference to
the assignment of the notes upon which the judgment enjoined
was obtained, or to the controverted deposition of Talbott.
The deposition of Talbott states that the notes were transferred to'him for the benefit of Witherspoon and Muirhead, and
that Taylor had notice of and assented to the assignment.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

149

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

Is Talbott a competent witness ?
1st. He held the notes of Taylor as a mere trustee, to be
applied, when collected, to the extinguishment of a debt due
Witherspoon and Muirhead. They were assigned to him for
that purpose only. That a'trustee is a cQmpetent witness, see
1 Starkie on Ev. 168; 6 Binney, 481; 1 Rand. 219; 2 ib.
563; Doug. 139; 4 Burr. 2254; 1 P. Wins. 287; 3 Atkins.
604; 13 Mass. 61.
2d. Without any contract whatever, he states that he expected to charge five per cent. commission whenever he should
collect the debt of his clients. This has never been held a disqualification of itself alone. An agreement for a suni contingent on success might perhaps affect his competency.
3d. -Talbott executed a bond,- as surety for Patton, to pay
the costs in the action at law against Taylor. The condition
of that bond was, that it was to be void if Patton or Talbott
should pay "all cost, that may be incurred in said suit, or with
which he may become legally chargeable."
The common law suit having been decided in favor of Patton, Talbott did not become legally chargeable with any costs
to Taylor; and the result of the present suit cannot, in any
manner, change his liability. The costs against Taylor of theaction at law may be perpetually enjoined, yet Talbott would
be no further bound than if the injunction weie dissolved. In
either case, his liability on his bond would be precisely the
same. It is not perceived, therefore, how his having executed
this bond can affect his competency as a witness.
But Talbott's credibility has been assailed by depositions of
three witnesses.
Objection might be taken to the kind of evidence given to
impeach the character of Talbott. But, allowing its admissibility for that purpose, we say that the testimony of Talbott is
corroborated in its material statements. The answer of Hugh
M. Patton, so far as it goes, corroborates Talbott's deposition.
Talbott's statement, also, ihat a receipt for $ 1,500 was written on the wrong note, which note was afterwards destroyed,
and a new one written and dated on that day. is corroborated
by the fact, that one of the notes in the record is dated as he
says.
The case, as the counsel for the appellants conceive, stands
thus. The complainant in the court below files a bill in which
he alleges that he had purchased from the defendant, 2,000
acres of land, and that he had received a deed, with a warranty,
supposing the title of his vendor to be good. He alleges the
subsequent insolvency of the vendor, the failure of the title,
and prays that the contract may be annulled. The defendant
13*

150

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

denies the allegation of the complainant's ignorance of the-state
of the title, which puts the complainant to the proof of the fact.
For proof he offers copies of letters from himself to the defendant, which are not admitted by the answer, nor shown to have
been ever received, and are therefore not evidence in the case.
He also offers, upon proof of handwriting, a letter written and
dated six months aftei the time when he himself alleges -the
contract to have been concluded, in proof of his ignorance of
the state of the title at the conclusion of the contract, and of
fraudulent misrepresentation on the part of the defendant.
This donstitutes the substance of the complainant's case.
For the appellants it is insisted, that whatever equity there
is in the bill is sworn away by the answer; that the evidence
offered, so far as it is admissible, is not pertinent to the point
in issue, namely, the ignorance of c6mplainant of the defect in
title, or, if pertinent, does not establish that fact; and that as
to the alleged fraudulent misrepreseantation, (even if it amounted to such,) inasmuch as it was not put'in issue by the pleadings, did not mislead the complainant to his injury, was long
subsequent to the da .e of the contract, and therefore formed no
inducement to it, and was upon a subject equally open to both
parties, it was consequently not sufficient in law or equity to
establish that fraud upon which an executed contract will be
rescinded.
The argument on the part of the appellees was as follows :
I. Before noticing the principal questions in the cause, the
counsel for Taylor will ask the attention of tlid court to the
objections, sustained by the Circuit Court, to the competency
of Talbott as a witness.
1. His deposition states, that, as attorney for Witherspoon
and Muirhead, he had obtained judgments against West, who
assigned to him eight tenths of a decree of Bledsoe's heirs
against Patton, which he took as a security, and for the use of
Witherspoon and Muirhead. That H. M. Patton, on his visit
to Kentucky, in 1819, drew bills on his father, by which the
means were raised to obtain the remaining two tenths of the
decree; and assigned to him, and placed in his hands, the two
notes of Taylor, to be collected and applied in payment of the
decree.
Talbott, then, was the agent and attorney of Witherspoon
and Muirhead for the collection of their claim against Patton
on the decree, and he was the trustee of Patton to collect the
amount due from Taylor, and apply it in discharge of the de,cree. He says the notes were assigned to him. They were
assignable by the law of Kentucky, and the assignee has the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

151

Patton et aL v. Taylor e't al.

legal right of action. The assignment of one of the notes
appears in the record.
Assuming his statement to be true, had he hot such an
interest in the subject as disqualified him? He holds and
legally owns the debts which Taylor seeks to enjoin. He
should have sued at law in his own name as assignee; and his
use of the name of Patton as plaintiff was in some sense a
fraud, to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction, or perhaps designed
to enable him to be a witness. Had Taylor appeared in the
action at law, he might have successfully pleaded the assignment to Talbott in bar. Neyfong v. Wells, Hardin, 562.
May an assignee, by suing in the name of his. assignor,
make himself a competent witness? That he cannot was
decided in Gallagher v. Milligan, 3 Pennsylv. 178; McKinleyk
v. McGregor, 3 Whart. 399. Talbott, the assignee, suing in
the name of Patton, might have been attached for the costs.
Ontario Bank v. Worthington, 12 Wendell, 597.
2. But Talbott was not a trustee merely. He .had a material interest to be promoted by the success of the party in
whose behalf he testified. He says Patton and West are
insolvent. Then the debt due to Witherspoon and Muirhea
can only be made out of Taylor. True, the witness says he
has no interest in the suit or- its event, other "than the compensation he may be entitled to for his services; and that he
has no conditional or contingent fee depending on the recovery. Yet, on cross-examination, it appears that, if he had
received the money, he would have charged a commission on
it of five per cent., and he yet expects to charge it when the
money is collected. Such commission is not unreasonable;
and doubtless, if Talbott had received the money, he would
have been permitted to retain it. Neither West nor Patton
himself could interpose between him and Taylor, or the marshal, and prevent his receiving the debt, nbr would there be
any necessity for a prior engagement to enable Talbott to retain
the commission. Then does not the witness testify in the
view that, if the party producing him succeeds, he will get a
-fund out of which to retain a commission, aud that, if he fails,
it will be lost? A witness so situated was held incompetent,
in Marland v. Jefferson, 2 Pick. ?40; New York Slate Co. v.
Osgood, 11 Mass. 60.
3. Talbott gave bond, as the surety of Patton, to pay the
costs of the action at law against Taylor. He was thereby
rendered incompetent in that case. Chadwick v. Upton, 3
Pick. 442; Jones v. Savage, 6 Wendell, 658; Miller v. Henshaw, 4 Dana, 333; Jack v. Carneal, 2 A. K. Marsh. 518;
Brandigee-v. Hale, 13 Johns. 125.

152

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et aL v. Taylor et al.

The ultimate liability for these costs depends upon the
result of this suit. If Taylor fails, he will have to pay all the
costs at law. If he succeeds, Talbott will have to pay all that
portion of them provided for in the bond. He has therefore
the same disqualifying interest in this cause that he would
haVe had in the action at law He will gain or lose by the
direct operation of the decree.
II. But if Talbott can be heard as a witness, the attention
of the court is asked to the depositions of Davis, Bayne, and
Scott, which discredit him.
III. The equity of Taylor cannot- be affected by a transfer
made without his knowledge.
IV. But suppose Taylor was present at, or assented to, the
assignment, is he thereby precluded from asserting his equity?
V The copies of Patt6n's letters are evidence.
(The argument upon these preliminary points is omitted.)
VI. We will now proceed to the questions arising upon the
merits.
' In the first place, it will be observed that the treaty for the
sale, ana the sale itself, were wholly by letters between Taylor, at Newport, Kentucky, and Patton, in Fredericksburg,
'Virginia. That between these parties there existed friendship,
and, an honorable -confidence, and that Taylor was the agent to
pay taxes on Patton's lands in Kentucky.
The land which was the subject of the sale is in Hopkins
county, Ky., 200 miles fromTaylor's residence. Taylor had
never seen it prior to the purchase, nor has he since, so far as
appears in the case.
The sale, was first proposed by Patton.
(The argument here reviewed the etters.)
The tenor of these letters leaves no' room to doubt that Taylor was not hunting for objections to get clear of the, contract,
but the contrary; though he had lost 'sales by not getting the
title,' he still desired t6 complete the bargain, and to perform it
on his part.
At last, on the 20th of June, 1820, Patton by letter confessed that he had no title, and falsified the representation in
his letter of July 13th, 1818. He stated that Southcombe was
the proprietor of the land by regular deeds from the grantee,
that he was Southcombe's agent, and had a power of attorney
to sell the land, 'which died with Southcombe, and that he
had settled Southcombg's matters, and allowed him $ 2 per
acre for the land.
The- letter does not make a case upon which Patton could
in equity obtain the title. It does not state, nor does it anywhere appear in the cause, that he had any writing fron South-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

153

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

combe, or that he had in fact -paid him for the land. There
is *no proof on this point, neither has Patton or his heirs endeavoured to get the title from Southcombe.
VII. There is, then, in this case every fact necessary to
entitle Taylor to the relief which the Circuit Court gave to
him. He placed confidence in the -statements of Patton.
Patton knew that Taylor was about to purchase trusting to his
assurance, and the-most material point, of fact not opinion,
inducing the purchase, the title of the vendor, was falsely
represented by Patton. Taylor had no meqns'of knowing the
truth, and Patton knew he had not,-and knew also that, if he
had, the confidence reposed in him would prevent a pursuit
of them. It does seem that if there can be such a misrepresentation as will avoid a sale of land, it is the one in this
case, and, however honest in his intent Patton may have been,
from the belief, (if he cherished it,) that the heirs of Southcombe would not claim the 'and, his representation to Taylor
that he had the "title, being untrue, and necessarily known by
him to be so, amounts to that actual fraud which all the
authorities concur in stating to be sufficient to avoid the sale.
1 Story's Equity, § 200-, 202 ; Neville v.. Wilkinson, 1 Bro.
Ch. 546; Fulton v. Roosevelt, 5 Johns. Ch. 174.
This court has rescinded sales of land made upon misrepresentation of title by the vendor. In Boyce's Ex'or v. Grundy,
3 Pet. 210, a sale of land was set aside, af the instance of the
vendee, on the ground of misrejresentation of title and quality,
leading to the purchase; and the court overruled the objection,
too, that the powers of the Circuit Court sitting in chancery
were, under the 'sixteenth section of the Judiciary Act, incompetent to afford relief to- the vendee, after judgment at law
against him for the purchase-money.
The case of the gold mine, Smith .v. Richards, 13 Pet. 26,
applies and enforces the principle, that a misrepresentation,
whether fraudulent or by mistake, is a sufficient ground in
.equity-to set aside any conveyace.
VIII. This is the case of a purchase by a vendee who confided in a material and fraudulent misrepresentation of his title
by the vendor, and who did hot discover the fraud until after
the conveyance had been made, and after the vendor had become insolvent; and who, on these grounds, asks that he shall
not be compelled to pay for what he has not obtained, and
cannot obtain.
Shall he be told that he must rely solely on the insolvent
vendor's warranty?
If the purchaser has dealt -with his eyes open, and with a
knowledge of the facts, - has obtained and yet peaceably enjoys

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylot et a.

the possession, -he
may have no right to anticipate his legal
remedy upon the warranty to which he has fairly trusted. But
it would- be unjust to throw a party upon a warranty in a case
where, from the fraud of the other party, he did not think he
should ever have need to rest upon it. To hold him bound in
such a case would be to make, not to enforce, a contract. The
simple principle is, that the vendor shall not object to the
claim of the vendee that which would not have existed but
for his own fraud. Accordingly, it is held that, where there
was fraud, in the sale of land, the vendee may have relief in
chancery, before eviction or disturbance. Butler's note (332) to
Co. Litt. 384; 'Edwards v. McLeay, Cooper's Cas. 308.
In Kentucky it has always been held that a fraudulent misrepresentation or concealment by the vendor respecting his
title will entitle the vendee to relief in chancery, though he

has a warranty.
In Breckinridge ,.Moore, 3, B. Monr. 635, the purchaser was
relieved, on the ground of a misrepresentation by the vendor of
his title. The rule laid down was, that the vendor was bound
to disclose the defects in his title.
In the late case of Vance v. House's Heirs, 5 B. Monr., the
settled doctrine of the court is stated to be, that the vendee in
possession, and with awarranty, may have relief upon either of.
the grounds of fraud, insolvency, or non-residence of the yendor.
No rescission was niade in that. case, because neither of these
facts existed, and the vendee did not appear to be in any danger of losing the land.
So in Simpson v. Hawkins, 1 Dana, 303, the court recognized the-rule, that for fraud the vendee may claim a rescission. The majority of the court in that case refused to rescind,
because there was no fraud; and the defect in the title was
merely technical, -.such as might never injure the vendee, and
such as, from the facts of that case)- he was presumed to have
known.
In this case, Taylor did not live in the county in which the
laud was, nor had he ever been there. The taxes had been
paid on the land at the seat of government, as Southcombe's.
Patton assured him he had a chain of title and conveyances
complete to himself. He had no opportunity of knowing that
this was untrue. Pattoifiknew this, and thai as to the title
Taylor would, as h6 did, -repose upon his statements. Patton's
title, if he had one, would not- necessarily appear upon record
in the county in which the land was, even if Taylor had
visited it. The record of a deed is not necessary to its operadon ; the title passes by the delivery of the instrument, though
creditors-and pufthasers may 'asail it, if not recorded. '1
All
•r

JANUARY

TER-M, 1849..

.155

Patton et aL v. Taylor ot al.

that Patton said in his letter of July, 1818, to Taylor may
have been true, and yet no traces of the deed to him havebeen
found on record in the county; and so, on the other hand, if
Taylor had searched the records and found n6.deed to Patton,
it would not thence follow that the latter had stated an un-

truth. He was the agent of Patton, and between persons
standing' in the relation of principal and agent, the rules of
equity require in their dealings the utmost degree of good faith.
Story's Eq. Jur. 224, and the cases there cited. "It
is obvious
from the correspondence, -that Patton knew the full extent of
the confidence which Taylor yielded to his assertions.
But Taylor agreed to take, the deed 'with the chain of Patton's title. He expected both. The letters prove beyond
doubt, that Taylor looked to receive the chain of title with the
deed. It was not sent, nor -was Taylor informed where he
could find it on record. But the deed which was sent contained a covenant that Patton would do any thing further necessary to confirm the land to Taylor, - that he would furnish
'the conveyances under which he held and sold. Taylor applied for these repeatedly by letters, and through H. M. Patton.
They were never furnished, and neither Patton nor his heirs
ever took any steps to ket the title from the heirs of Southcombe.
But it would not be a sufficient answer, even if true in fact,.
that Taylor might, by inquiry, have discovered the misrepresentation. Equity will not tolerate a party to s y to his vendee, "Though I have told you a falsehood as to the title, believing which, you bought, the land, still you ought not ta
have .believed me; you should have suspected, not confided."
It would be a strange rule of equity, that would permit fraud
to escape on such a grountd. True it is said, in some cases,
"that the assertion of a falsehood as to the quality of. a -thing
which is present at the sale, and which the vendee sees or may
see is false, shall give him no claim. And this because the
law justly supposes he trusted to his own senses rather than to
the statements of the other. hut the principle does not apply
where the thing sold is at a distance, and much less does it
'apply to statements about title.
And a misrepresentation, of the title, though it be on record,
is a fraud that will entitld the vendee to a rescission, even if
he has a warranty, and is in possession. Young v. Hopkins,
6 Monr. 23. In this case the court said, - " It is in .effect
assumed by the court below that, the title-deeds being matter
of record, Young was bound to look into them, and must be
presumed to have seen them, as he took a deed for the lot. If
this is to excuse. from tlhe. effect of false represerftations with

156

SUPREME

COURT.

Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

regard to title, it would obviate the consequences of fraud in
nearly all landed controversies, as all our titles are matters of
Xecord. Indeed, men prudent and cautious will examine them
before they purchase, as the title papers are the safest guide.
But we know that, in many cases, the credulous and confiding
dealers d6 not do so, but act on seeing how the possession is
held, and the representations of the vendor If these representations are false, the maker of them is, in such case, responsible."
And in Campbell v. Whittingham; 5 J. J. Marsh. 100, the court
said, - " Had the nature of Campbell's title to the lot purchased
by Whittingham and Peters been fraudulently concealed, or
had he made fraudulent representations on that subject, by
which the purchasers were seduced into the contract, and
induced to accept an insufficient title, it would have presented
a clear case for rescission, notwithstanding the title and the
encumbrances on the lot,,might have been matters of record;
for it does not present a satisfactory defence to an allegation
of fraud in the sale of land. as to the title. to show that the
conveyance had been recorded, whereby the vendee might,
with proper diligence, have discovered the defect complained
of, and respecting which the fraud was practised." In this
case, the vendee was in possession under a deed with covenants
of seizin dnd of warranty, and the rescission was because of
the failure of the vendor to disclose an encumbrance existing
by matter of record, in the county in which the parties and the
land were. These are the principles of the law applicable to
sales of land, in the State froni which this cause came.
The principle of equity is happily expresse.4 by the late
chief justice of this court, in the case of Garnett v. Macon,
2 Brock. 2.50, in these words: - " Although I am. entirely satisfied that there is no moral taint in this transaction, that the
omission to give notice of Campbell's debt was not concealment to which blame, in a moral point of view, canbe
attached; yet a court of equity considers the'vendor as responsible for the title he sells, and as bound to inform himself of its
defects. The purchaser in making a contract may be excused
for relying on the assurance of the vendor, impied in the
transaction itself, that lie can perform his agreemhent."
IX. It is shown on all sides that Patton, who was esteemed
wealthy when the sale was made, became hopelessly insolvent,
and so died. This fact has always been held sufficient to
enjoin the collection of the purchase-money where there is a
defect of title, even in cases free from fraud. The purchaser
who is in danger of losing his land shall not be thrown upon
the warranty of an insolvent vendor. Simpson v. Hawkins, 1

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

157

Patton et aL v. Taylor et aL

Dana, 303. The attention of the court is asked to the remarkupon this point of Judge Nicholas, at page 318. In Morrison's Adm'r v. Beckwith, 4 Monr. 73, the vendor's
insolvency was made the ground of an injunction.
And where relief by injunction has been refused to the vendee. (as in the cases in 7 MIour. 198; 3 J. J. Marsh. 584; 2 B.
Monr. 40), it was upon the ground that insolvency was not
proved as alleged, not in fact existing. In all these and other.cases, the rule in case of insolvency was recognized,
(The rest of the argument is omitted.)
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United Statesheld in and for the District of Kentucky, by the district judge.
Taylor, the complainant below,, filed a bill against Robert
Patton, the intestate and "ancestor of the defendants, praying
relief against two judgments recovered ,against him at law,
upon s6ecurities given for the purchase-money of .two thousand
acres of land situate in the State of Kentucky, and sold and:
conveyed by the latter to the former. The bill was filed at
the. November term, in the year 18204 and the suit has been
pending ever since. The sale and conveyance of the land
took place September 3d, 1818, the considerati6n being $ 5,000.
payable one half on the 30th of January, 1819, and the other
in one year thereafter. The deed contained covenants for
further assurance, and of warranty, and the grantee entered
into possession of the premises, and has held if ever since.
The only allegations in the bill upon which the complainant
relied for staying the collection of the judgments, and settingaside the sale and conveyance, are, that the said Patton had no
title to the .land at the=time of the purchase, nor since; and
that he had become insolvent, and possessed no personal responsibility.
The defendant admits, in his answer, that he had no legal
title, and that it was, at the time, in the heirs of one Thomas
Southcombe, but insists that he had purchased the land of
Southcombe, had paid for it, and had been in the peaceable
possession of the same, and paid the taxes thereon, for more
than twenty years, and until the time of the sale; and that
the complainant well knew 'the nature and condition of the
title at the time of the purchase, and the taking of the deed.
The- answer alsp sets up an assignment of the securities
taken for the purchase-money, from the defendant to Wither-.
spoon and Muirheadj in payment of a decree in chancery which
their held against him; that it was made in the presence, and.
with the knowledge and consent, of the complainant, and that
vo.. V1I.

14

158

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et a]. v. Taylor et al.

the guits were brought, and the judgments in question recovered, by them and for their benefit.
Oil the death of Robert Patton, ,the complainant revived the
suit against his heirs and personal representatives, on the 13th
of November, 1829. The answer to this bill, which relies
mainly'upon the facts set forth in the previous answer of Patton,
was put in and filed in July, 1844.
The cause was heard on the pleadings and proofs on the
13th of May, 1845, and thereupon it was adjudged and decreed
by the court, that the contract entered into between the complainant 'and Robert Patton, for the purchase and sale of the
Jand for the sum of $ 5,000, as set forth in the bill and admitted
in the answer, be rescinded and annulled; that the judgments
recovered at law for the purchase-money be perpetually enjoined ; and that -the deed of the 3d of September, 1818, be cancelled and held for naught.
The decree then provides for the repayment by the heirs of
Patton of such porticns of the purchase-money as had been paid
by Taylor, after deducting the rents and profits which he may
have received. from the premises, over and above expenditures
for necessary repairs and -improvements; and on such repayment, the.possession is ordered to be delivered up to the heirs,
and a reconveyance to be made by the complainant to them,
with a covenant against his own acts affecting the title ; and
also previding that the heirs shall hold the lands in trust for the
benefit of Witherspoon and Muirhead, the assignees and owners
of the judgments at law.
The cause is then referred to the master, to take and state an
account of the rents and profits, improvements, &c., upon the
principles settled, and to rdport to the court.
There is some evidence in the case tending to prove that
the defendant, Robert Patton, represented to the complainant
during 'the negotiation between them for the sale and purchase
.of ihe lands in question, that he held at the time the legal
title ; and that the cotnplainant had reason to believe that he
would be invested with it' by the conveyance of the 3d of September, 1818.
The circumstances,, however, that Taylor was, at the time, aid
for several years before had been, the general agent of Patton in
Kentucky to take charge of his lands in that State, including
the premises in question, to pay the taxes. and negotiate sales
to purchasers, lead to the conclusion, that he must himself
have had some knowledge of the title, and that he was
willing to risk it, on receiving a warranty d~ed from Patton,
who'was supposed to'be a man of wealth. Where the truth
of this matter lies, it is not material to inquire; for no such

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

159

Patton et. al. v. Taylor et ali

question is made on the pleadings, or was involved at the hearing. It is not surprisingi therefore, that the proofs in respect
to it to be found on the record are vague and unsatisfactory;
as, probably, the attention of neither party was particularly
diawn to it. Indeed, it could not consistently have been, as
the charge of fraud or misrepresentation is not to be found in
the bill as originally drawn, nor in the amended bill filed some
two years and a half afterwards. Nor is it made in the bill
of revivor, which was filed as late as November, 1829.
The relief prayed for is put, both in the original and amended bills, entirely upon the defect of legal title in Patton at the
time of the conveyance, and in connection with this, his sqbsequent insolvency; and'unless this ground alone is sufficient to
sustain it, the decree of the court below cannot be upheld. And
that it is not, we need only refer to the authorities on the subject. Bumpus v. Platner, 1 Johns. Ch. 213 -218; Abbot v.
Allen, 2 ib. 519 ; Gouverneur v. Elmendorf, 5 ib." 79; Simpson v. Hawkins, 1 Dana 305, 308, 312 ; James v. McKernon,
6 Johns. 543.
These cases will show that a purchaser, in the undisturbed
possession of the land, will not be relieved against the payment
of the purchase-money on the mere ground of defect of title,
there being no fraud or misrepresentation; and that, in such a
case, lie must seek his remedy at law on the 'covenants in his
deed. That if there is no .fraud, and no covenants to secure
the title, he is without remedy; as the vendor, selling in good
faith, is not responsible for the goodness of his title, beyond the
extent of his covenants in the deed. And further, that relief
will not be afforded, even on the ground of fraud, unless it be
made a distinct allegation in the bill, so that it may be put in
issue by the pleadings.
It follows that the court below erred, and that the decree
should be reversed, and the bill dismissed.
There is another point'in the case in respect to which we
think the court also erred, and which we will for a moment
notice, namely, the rejection, of the deposition of Talbott offerdd in evidence by the defendants below. The deposition tended to prove that the notes given -for the purchase-money had
been assigned and transferred by Patton to Witherspoon and
Muirhead, his creditors, with the knowledge and assent of 'raylor, in consideration of which the creditors agreed to postpone
the payment of the demand against Patton. Talbott was rejected on the ground of interest, asit appeared upon the face 'of
his own deposition, - 1. as surety for Patton in the suit .at
law; and, 2. as assignee of the notes for the benefit of Witherspoqol and Muirhead.
In answer to the first ground, it is sufficient, to say, that

-

160

SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

judgment§ had been recovered by default in the suits at law in
favor of Patton. And to the sdcond', that, according to the deposition, Talbott had no interest whatever in the result of the
suit. He held the notes as a naked tfustee, the proceeds of
which, when collected, were to be applied to the payment of
the debt of Witherspoon and Muirhead, his clients. He had no
charge upon the fund, by any agreement or understanding with
Patton, or his -clients, -for costs or commissions, as attorney, or
otherwise, that would make him an interested witness. There
was no foundation, therefore, for the exclusion of his evidence.
But it is unnecessary .to pursue this inquiry, as the ground already stated sufficiently disposes of the case.
.Decree below reversed, and bill dismissed, with costs.
Order..
This cause came on to-,be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to dismiss the bill of complainant, with costs.

EDWARD P. FouriNIQUET AND HARRIET JANE FOURNIQUET, HIS WIFE,
'APPELLANTS, V. JOrN PERKINS.
The jurisdiction of courts of probate in Louisiana is confined to cases which seek an
account and settlement of effects presumed to be held by the representative of a
succession. It has not jurisdiction over cases of alleged fraud or waste,lor embezzlement of the estate.
The District Courts are courts of general civil jurisdiction.
Hence, where a petition was filed in the Court of Probate against an administrator,
praying that he might account and also be held liable for maleadministration and
spoliation, it was proper to transfer the case for trial to the District Court.
The judgment in the District Court, being generally for the defendant, must be,supposed to cover the whole case, and not to have rested upon only a branch of it,
viz. a release which was pleaded by the defendant.
Therefore, where 4 bill was filed in the Circuit Court by the same petitioners against
the same defendant, it was correct for that court to consider the question as res
ata.
Tadl
decisions upon the jurisdiction of the Probate and District Courts
e Louisiana.
examined.

Tins was an -appeal from the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of Louisiana.
In the year "1818, Mary Bynum, the widow of Benjamin Byn'am deceased, was living in the parish of Concordia-, State of
Louisiana, with four children, of whom Harriet, the wife of the
appellant, was one.

