262

SU.PREMEf

COURT.

McArthur's -Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

there is nothing in the record which this court is authorized to
review, it is thereupon pow here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

Dui' cA

McARTnRs's HEIns, COMxP.&NANTS, V. W.aLTmR DuNls HEIRs.

The proviso in the second section of the act passed on the 1st of March, 1823 (3
.Statutes at Large, 7.73), entitled, "An act fbr extending the time for locatin
Virginia military land-wrants and returning surveys thereon t6 the Gene

,and Office," - which proviso is as follows, viz. "Provided, that no locations, as
aforesaid, in virtue of this or the preceding section of this act; shall be made on
tracts of lands for which patents -had previously been issued, or which had been
previously surveyed; and any patent which may nevertheless be obtained for land
located contrary to the provisions of this act shall be considered null and void"protected an entry which had been made in the name of a dead man in 1822.
And a subsequent conflicting entry came within the prohibition of the statute, and
was therefore void.
The cases of Gait v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 345; McDonald's Heirs v. Smalley,6 Peters,
* 261; Jackson v. Clarke, I Peters, 628; Taylor's Lessee . Myers,

Wheat. 23;

and Galloway v. Finley, 12 Peters, 264, reviewed.

Tnis c*ase came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, on a certificate %ofdivision in
opinion between the judges thereof.
It was before this court at January term, 1842, and was then
remanded to the Circuit Court, upon the ground that a material
error had boen committed by the clerk in stating the point intended to be certified. It now came back with the error corrected.
It was, originally, a bill filed on the' equity side of the Circuit Court by Dun against McArthur, in which the same matters of controversy were involved as in the present case. Dun
obtained a-decree against McArthur in 1836.
In 1838, McArthur filed the present bill of review. The
following table presents a view of their conflicting titles to the
land in question:
McArthur's Title.
-Dun's Title.
1822, Nov. 23. Entry in the
name of Means, who
was dead.
1823, March 1. Act of Congress -passed.
1823, March 18. Survey.
1824, Dec. 10. Entry by Galoway.
1824, Dec. 15.
Survey.
1825, Jan. 3. Patent.
1825W, April 4.
Patent.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

263

McArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

All the facts in the case are stated in the certificate of divis
ion in opinion, which was as follows, viz.: "This cause having been remanded from the Supreme Court
of the United States to this court, for a further order touching
the point upon which the opinions of the judges of this court
upon the hearing thereof were opposed, in compliance' with
said mandate of aid Supreme Court, the said point of disagreement of said jiudges is now ordered to be restated more specially and at large. -The said point of disagreement arose out of
the following facts, siated and set forth in the original bill of
said Walter Dun, and admitted to be true by.the demurrer of
said Duncan McArthur thereto, who was the respondent to said
original bill; viz.: That said McArthur, on the 3d of January,
A. D. 1825, obtained a patent for the tract of land. in controversy, which is situate in the Virginia military reservation; in
the State of Ohio, on an entry made on a Virginia military'landwarrant in the name of Robert Means, assignee, on the 23d of
November, A. D. 1822, followed by a survey of said entry made
in the name of the said Robert Means, assignee, on the 18th of
March-, A. D. 1823; which said Robert Means'before said entry, and as early as the year A. D. 1808, had departed this life.
And that, on the 4th day of April, 1825 , another patent for the
same tract of land was issued to one James Galloway, on an entry thereof made in the name of said Galloway, on the" 10th
of December, A. D. 1824, on another .Virginia miliary landwarrant, and which was duly surveyed in his (said Galloway's)
name, on the 15th -of the same month of December, A. D.
1824, and which tract of land was subsequently conveyed by
said Galloway to said Walter Dun. Upon which said state of
facts, touching the titles of the said parties to said tract of land,
this point was raised by the counsel for the complainant in said
bill of review, upon the hearing and argument thereof, viz. :'Whether the said location and survey-of said tract of land in
the name of said Galloway, and the patent issued to liim for'
the same 'are not null and void, as being made and done in
contravention of the proviso to the second section of the act of
Congress of the 1st of March, A. D. 1823, .enfitled 'An act extending the time for locating Virginia military land-warrants
and returning surveys thereon to the General Land Office2
"11And upon the point so as aforesaid raised by the counsel for
the complainantd in review, the opinions of the judges of this
court being opposed, the said point of disagreeMent is, on motion of said complainants' counsel, stated as above, under the
direction of said judges, and is hereby ordered to be certified to
the Supreme Court of the United States at its, next session to
be hereafter holden, for its final decision upon said point of disagreement."

,264

SUPRE'ME

COURT.

McArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Hejrs.

The proviso referred to was in these words (3 Stat. at Large,
773) :'--" Prbvided, that no.locations as aforesaid, in virtue of
this or the preceding section of this act, shall be made on tracts
of lands for which patents had previously been issued, br which
had been previously surveyed; and any patent which may,
nevertheless, be obtained for land located contrary to the provisions of this act, shall be considered null and-void."
The cause was argued by Mr. Vinton, on behalf of the complainants, and Mr. Ewing and -Mr.Thurman, for Dun's heirs.
Mr. Vinton, for the complainants, reviewed and commented
upon the following cases.
12 Peters, 297, and also referred to the act of 20th May,
1836 (5 Stat. at Large, 31).
7 Wheaton, 23 ; 1 Peters, 638 ; 4 Peters, 332; 6 Peters, 261,
666; 7 Ohio Rep. 177, .which last case, he contended, misconstrued the judgment of this court in 6 Peters.
The 'brief filed by Mr. Thurman, and enlarged upon by
Mr. Ewing, was as follows.
I. An entry in the name of a dead man is, on general principles, void.
Gait 'v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 345; McDonald's
Heirs v. Smalley, 6 Peters, 261; Lessee of Wallace v. Saunders,
7 Ohio Rep. (Part 1), 173.
1I. Being void, it is not protected by the proviso in question.
Lindsey v. Miller's Lessee, 6 Peters, 666; Lessee of Wallace v.
Saunders, above cited.
III. There is no difference, in this respect, between a survey in the name of a dead man made after, and one made
before, the passage of the act of 1807.
The terms of the
proviso apply to the one as much as to the other.. And- no
reason can be given why the proviso should protect a survey made after its enactment, and not protect one made prior
thereto, and to the land covered by which no right of a third
party had intervened. It protects neither.
-IV. Galloway v. Pinley, 12 Peters, 264, is not, I respectfully
submit, decisive of the present case. Because,1. The point now under consideration did not necessarily
arise in that case. The -court held, .that Galloway could not,
while standing in the relation of a purchaser, be permitted to
avail, himself of the defect he relied on in his vendors' title, to
defeat his agreement to purchase. Whether he could do so
was the main and only necessary questionin thht case.
2. The entry iu-that case was made on patented lands. In
this case, it was on lands not patented. The difference is material.; for the court, in deciding that case, said: -"It is diffi-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

265

Mc.Arthur's Heirs v. Dun's ,1eirs.

cult to conceive how an irregular patent could exist, unless it
passed no title. We will not perplex the decision with sup-"
posed cases of irregular surveys, but examine the act of Congress, and ascertain its effect as regards -the grant in the name
of Charles Bradford." (p. 298.)
And again: - " Congress had the power, in 1807, to withhold from location any portion of the military lands; and hav-.
ing done so in regard to that previously patented in the name"
of Charles Bradford, the complainant, Galloway, had no right
to enter the same." (p. 299.)
It would seem,. from these extracts, that the court did not
intend that its decision should extend beyond -what was required by the facts of the case then under consideration, and
that, consequently, it is not decided that a void unpatented survey is protected by the act of 1807.
So, in Hoofnagle v. Anderson, 7"Wheat. 212, (S. C., 5 Cond.
R. 271,) a broad distinction was made between patented and
unpatented surveys. A patent for a survey made on a "-State
line" warrant, was held to appropriate the land. The survey,
before patent issued, was a nullity, and the land was subject
to entry. Miller .v.Kerr, 7 Wheat. 1 ; S. C., 5 Cond. R. 202;
'Lindsey v. Miller, and Galloway v. Finley, above cited.
3. The court distinguish the case of Galloway v. Finley
from the case of Lindsey v. Miller by the fact, that the survey
in the former case was on a proper warrant, and in the latter
on a State line warrant; wherefore there was an equity in the
former that did not exist in the latter case.
But in Hoofnagle v. Anderson, the court seemed to think
there was very little difference in the equities. Both were equities of which a court could not take cognizance, and both claims
were of an equally meritorious character.
The court (in deciding that the patent for the. survey ma.de
on the State line warrant appropriated the land, and prevented
its subsequent location) said: - 1 The equity of the one can-'

not be so inferior to that of the other, as to 'justify the court
in considering the patent of the one as an absolute nullity
in favor of the other, who has attempted to appropriate the
same land after such patent had been issued." 5 Cond. R.
273.
4. The court, in Galloway-v. Finley, say -" Congress had
the power, in 1807, to withhold from location any portion of
the military lands:"
But ought it to be supposed that Congress intended to withhold a portion to which no person had acquired any title ?
V. The case under consideration is not affected by the act
of May 20th, 1836, entitled, "*An act to give effect to patents
23
VOL. VII.

286

SVPREME

COURT.

McArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

for public lands issued in the names of deceased persons." (6
Peters's.Laws, 31.) Because, 1. It could not have been the intention of Congress, in passing that act, to interfere with !bp. rights of third persons.
2. If such -were the intention, the act is,to that extent, void;
Congress having no power to give the lands of A to B, without
consideration and against the will of A.
3, The point certified does not include the question, whether
the rights of the parties are affected by the act of. 1836, and
,consequently that question cannot be considered in this court.
Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. .1 ; S. G., 5 Cond. R. 1.
If the above .propositions are sound, it follows that the judgment of-the court must be for Dud's heirs, the entry and survey in the name of Means (under which the complainants
claim) having both been made after his death.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered'the opinion of the court:
This case comes before this court upon a certificate of division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Ohio, upon a bill of review exhibited in- that court. "The character of the cause as made
upon the pleadings and evidence, and, the. question on, which
the judges were divided in opinionare so succinctly and at the
same time so clearly disclosed in the statement of the judges,
that they will be best presented by a simple repetition of that
statement in these words: "This cause having been remanded frqm the Supreme Court
of the -United States to this court, for a further order touching
the point'upon which the opinions of the judges of this court
upon ,the hearing thereof were opposed, in compliance with
said mandaite of said Supreme Court, the said point of disagreement of said judges is now ordered to be restated more specially
and.at large. The said point of disagreement arose oit of the
following facts, stated and set forth in the original bill of said
Walter Dun, and admitted to be true by the demurrer of said
Duncan McArthur thereto, who was the respondent to said
original bill, viz. : That said McArthur, on the 3d of January,
A. D. 1825, obtained a patent for the tract- of land in controversy, which is situate in the Virginia military reservation, in
the State of Ohio, on an entry made on a Virginia military landwarrant, in the name of Robert Means, assignee, on the 23d of
November, A. D. 1822, followed by a survey of said entry, made
in the name of the said Robert Means, assignee, on the 18th
of March, A. D. 1823; which said Robert Means before said
entry, and as.early as the year A. D. 1808, had departed this
life. And that, on the 4th day of April, 18035, another patent

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

267

M cArthur's Heirs -v.Dun's Heirs.

for the same tract of land was issued to one James Galloway,
on an entry thereof made in the'name of said Galloway, on
the i0th of December, A. D. 1824, on another Virginia military
land-warrant, and which was duly surveyed in. his (said Galloway's) name, on the 15th of the same month of-December,
A. D. 1824, and which tract of land was subsequently conveyed by said Galloway to said Walter Dun.. U pon -which
said state of facts, touchiig the titles of the said parties to
said tract of land, this point was raised by the' counsel for the
complainant in said bill of review, upon the hearing and argumerit thereof, viz..: - Whether the said location and survey
of said tract of land in .thd name of said Galloway, .and the
patent issued to him for the same, are not null and void, as
being made and done in contravention of the proviso to the
second section of the act of Congress of the 1st of March,
A. D. 1823, entitled 'An act extending the .time for locating
Virginia military land-warrants and returning surveys thereon
to the General Land Office.'"
Thus it will appear that the only question for consideration
here arises on the proper construction of the proviso contained
in the second section of the aet of Qongress above mentioned.
This act--after'providing in the first section that the officers
and soldiers of the Virginia line or Continental establishment,
their heirs or assigns, entitled to bounty lands within the country reserved by the'State of Virginia, between the Little Miami
and Scioto Rivers, shall be allowed a further time of two years
from the 4th day of January, 1823, to obtain warrants and
complete their locations, and the further time of four years
from the same period to return their surveys and warrants to
in the secthe General Land Office to obtain patents -contain'
rLProvided,
ond section a proviso in the following words:
that no locations as aforesaid in virtue of this or the precedihg
section of this act shall be made on tracts of lands for which
'patents had previously been issued, or which had been previously surveyed; and any patent which may nevertheless be
obtained for land. located contrary to the provisions of this act
shall be considered null and void.Y 3 Stat. at Large, 773.
,Upon this proviso, which appears to'be a'literal transcript of
the proviso contained in the first section of the act of 1807,
the question for our consideration, as has been already remarked, is presented.
On behalf of the complainants in the bill of review (the
heirs of Duncan McArthur) and the holders of the elder patent, it'is insisted, that., not only is their title under-the prior
entry and snrvey in tha name of Means, and the patent issued
in pursuance thereof, protected.-by the operation of the proviso

SUPREME COURT.
MeArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

just mentioned, but that the effect of that proviso, nay, its
express language, renders absolutely void the claim of title set
up by the heirs of the junior patentee, Dun; denying to it,
and to all similar clauses, any foundation on which legally or
The heirs of Duil
equitably such claims can be founded.
contend that the patent to McArthur having been granted upon
a location and survey made in the name of Means, when it
fact Means had been dead fourteen years anterior to the entry,
and thirteen years previously to the survey in his name, this
entry and survey, and the patent issued to. McArthur thereon,
were of no. legal efficacy, and should be' superseded by th
patent to James Galloway, upon an entry made.by said Galloway in 1824, under which patent the heirs of Dun derive title
by ptrchase. In support of this position, it is said that an.
entry in the name of a dead man is, onl general principles, void,
as was ruled by the cases of Galt v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 345,
aid of McDonald's Heirs v. Smalley, 6 Peters, 261. These
cases, though express to the single point for which they have
been cited, are nevertheless by no means decisive of the question certified; if indeed they are at all applicable thereto ; that
question not involving simply the validity of an entry made
in the name of a dead man, but embracing the legality of locations made since the enactment of the proviso, upon lands previously patented or surveyed, without reference to the circuinstance of 'the death or life of those in whose names such previous patents may have been granted or surveys made.
The language of the proviso is broad and comprehensive
enough to comprise patents and surveys in the names of persons either living or dead, and it expressly declares to be
null all patents posterior in time to those surveys and patents
thus generally described and protected by that language. The
proviso, then, if the natural and common meaning of its terms
be adopted, must extend to and protect-alike patents, entries,
and surveys of either description, so far as this end is accomplished by preventing the possibility of conflict with locations
and patents coming into existence after its date. Its operation -and effect must be thus comprehensive, unless they can be
understood to have been limited and controlled by some clear
and authoritative exposition. Have they been so limited ?,
It cannot be necessary here to discuss the competenicy of Congress in reference either to the power of imposing a limitation
upon the time within which locations upon the ceded lands
should be made, or as to the conditions jan which further time
might be extended to persons who had been excluded by the
limitation first laid on locations. Those subjects have been
treated with clearness by Chief Justice Marshall. in the case of

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

269

McArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

Jackson v. Clarke, 1 Peters, 628, and the power of Congress
with respect to them placed beyond objection.
In the next place, in the interpretation of the proviso contained in the laws of 1807 and 1823, the. case of Jack~on v.
Clarke, we think, effectually overrules the distinction attempted in the argument of this cause between a patent and a survey in the operation of either proviso, a distinction, as we
have already remarked, not. taken by the language of the statute. Speaking of the survey in the case just quoted, Chief Justice Marshall says :- "The survey, having every appearance
of fairness and validity given to it by the officers of -the government, is sold as early as 1796 to persons who take possession of it, and have retained possession ever since. Why
should not the proviso in the act of Congress apply to it?
The words taken literally certainly apply to it. Does the language of the clause furnish any distinction between the patent
and the survey? Lands surveyed are as completely withdrawn as lands patented from subsequent location." Again, it
is said, in the same case, that "a survey made by the proper
, fficer, professing to be made on real warrants, and bearing on
its face every mark of regularity and validity, presented a barrier to the locator which he was not permitted to approach,,
which he was not at liberty to examine." The case of Jackson v. Clarke may be appealed to for another illustration, which
is very apposite to the present controversy. In support of the
junior location and patent of Dun the court has been referred
to the case of Taylor's Lessee v. Myers, 7 Wheat. 23, as an
instance in which a location on land previously surveyed had
been permitted subsequently to the proviso of 1807. 'But in
the case of Taylor's Lessee v. Myers the owner had openly
abandoned his location and survey, and had placed his warrant
on other land. In such a case, say the court, "the land-was
universally considered as returning to the mass of vacant land,
and becoming, like other vacant land, subject to appropriation;*
therefore in Taylor's Lessee v. Myers, the court said, the proviso which annuls all locations made on lands previously surveyed applies to subsisting surveys, to those in which an interest is claimed, not to those which have been abandoned,
and in which no person has an interest. This survey has not
been abandoned by any person having an interest in it." No
force, then, is perceived in the instance adduced, and no strength
can be imparted by it to the position occupied by the defendants in this case; because by the abandonment the previous
location and survey to every legal and operative purpose were
annihilated, and there might be said in effect to have been
hone such, the original locator could not b compelled to iold
23*

270

SUPREME COURT.
MoArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

or continue them'; it having been expressly ruled by this court.
that the owner of a survey or a' patent may abandon either at
his pleasure.
But it is contended for. the defendants, that the entry and
survey made in the name of Means, being by reason of his
death at .the date of that entry and survey absolutely void,
under the authority of the decisions of Galt v. Galloway, 4
Peters, 345, and McDonald v. Smalley, 6 Peters, 261, the
proviso in the act of Congress did not revive them or give
them validity. That, according to the interpretation of the
act of Congress in the case'o Jackson v. Clarke, the proviso
is extended no farther than to irregular patents. The language
of the decision just mentioned does not literally apply to surveys pronounced absolutely void, by the death of the locator,
or by any other cause; but it is equally true, that neither the
terms nor the spirit of the reasoning of the court, nor of the
'decision. declare or imply any thing against the justice of such
claims. The reasoning of the court in that case would apply
as strongly to the justice of cases which were not perfected by
reason of death, as it possibly could do to suth as were not
perfected in consequence of the neglect or omission of the persons interested; and surely the intrinsic, character of the claim
,could not be affected* by the former cause; its justice as
against the goyernment would remain precisely' the same.
The government would not have fulfilled its acknowledged
.obligation to the owner of the warrant or survey. There can
'be no question as to the power of the government to revive or
'confirm surveys or patents made or granted to persons not
-actually in life when such surveys or patents were made;
there is an obvious .propriety in a fulfilment of its undertakrings by the government, and in its forbearance to enforce a forfeiture founded on no delinquency in those who would be
affected thereby; and there is nothing in the act of Congressor in any judicial, constitution thereof requiring or indicating
.an opposite conclusion. Indeed, the utmost which it has been
attempted to deduce from the statute, or from any interpreta'tion of the statute, is the absence of an authoritative declaratiohi, that surveys-'and patents made or issued in the names
of persons not living at the periods of their respective dates
have not in fact been reserved and confirmed. But is not this
deduction directly at war with the unequivocal authority of
this court, in open conflict with the- decision of Galloway v.
Fiuley-" reported in .12 Peters, 264 ? We hiold that it is. In
ord1er to escape from this decision, it has been argued that the
ease last mentioned ruled nothing bey6nd this, that Galloway,
as the vendee of Finley, should not be permitted to avail

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

271

McArthur's Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

himself of information derived from his vndor, and use it
with the view to impeach the vendor's title, and as a means to
obtain a better title in himself, in opposition to the title of that
vendor. It is true that the point here stated was ruled in the
case, but the decision was by no means limited to that single
point. Under the pleadings and proofs in that case, the title
of Finley was necessarily brought into reviewi its character
and the effect of the act of Congress with respect to it were
discussed and decided upon. In that -case, as in the present, it
was contended that the statute operated upon titles merely
irregular or defective, and did not embrace such as were void.
In refutation of this interpretation the court proceed thus ",It is insisted that the section had reference to imperfect, and
not to void titles. The legislature merely affirmed a principle
not open to question, if this be the true construction. Had an
effective patert issued, the government would not have had
any title remaining, and a second grant would have -been void
of course. Something more undoubtedly was intended than
the protection of defective, yet valid; surveys and patents."
-Again the court say, -" The death of the grantee is an extrinsic fact, not impairing the equity of the claim as against the
government. The defects of all others. most common in the
military districts of Kentucky,. Tennessee, and Ohio were
where the soldier had died, and the entry, survey, and grant
had been made in the name of the deceased. In his name the
wvarrant almost uniformly issued; who the heirs were was
usually unknown to the locator, and disregarded by the officers
of the government when perfecting the titles. In Tennessee
and Kentucky, provision was made at an early day that. the
heir should take by the grant ;iand why should we presume
that Congress did not provide for the protection of his claim to
the lands purporting to have been granted, when the legislation
of the federal government was of necessity controlled in this
respect by the experience of members coming from States
where there were military lands? The statute is general, in-.
cludirig by name all grants, nof distinguishing between void
and valid; and the plainest rules of propriety and jbstice require that the courts should'not introduce an exception, the
legislature having made none. - Congress had power in 1807'
to withhold from location any portion of the military lands,
and, having done g6 -in regard to the lands of C. Bradford,
the complainant Galloway' had no right to enter the same."
Authority so directly in point leaves little room for comment; indeed, it may be said that, mutate nomine, the case of
Galloway v. Finley is the 'case of McArthur's heirs against
,he heirs of Dun. Upon the plain and natural import of the

272

SUPREME COURT.
Mace v. Wells.

proviso in the statutes of 1807 and of 1823, upon the reasoning of this court in the case of Jackson v. Clarke, 1 Peters, 628,
but chiefly upon the very pointed authority of the case of Galloway v.Finley we are of the opinion that the location and
survey of the- land in question in the name of James Galloway,
and the patent issued to him for the same, as mentioned in the.
certificate of division, are null and void, as being made and
done in contravention of the proviso to the second section of
the act of Congress of the 1st of March, A. D. 1823, entitled,
"An act'extending the time for locating Virginia military landwarrants, and returning surveys thereon to the General Land
Office," and we do order this opinion to be certified to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
Order.
This-cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit, Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio, and on the point and question on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of
Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration -whereof,it is the-opinion of this
court, that the location and survey of the land in question in
the name of James Galloway, and the patent issued to him for
the same, as mentioned in the certificate of division, are null and
void, as being made and done in con ravention of the, proviso to
the secona section of the act of Congiess of the 1st of March,
A. D. 1823, entitled, "An act extending the time for locating
Virginia military land-warrants, and returning surveys thereon
to the General Land Office." Whereupon it is .now here ordered and -decreed by this court, that it be so certified 'to the
said Circuit Court.

TImOTHY L.

MACE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAEED WELLS.

By the fifth section of the United States Bankrupt Act (5 Stat. at Large, 444), the
surety upon a promissory note had a right to prove the demand against the maker,
who tecame a bankrupt, and by the fourth section the bankrupt was discharged
from all debts which were provable under the act.
Therefore, where the surety paid the note to the creditor, after the discharge of the
bankrupt, and brought suit gainst the bankrupt for the amount, he was not entitled to recover it.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of Vermont, by a writ of error issued
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.

