646

SUPREME COURT.
Sadler et al. v. Hoover et al.

Ordei.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the 'decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed.with costs.

WILLIAM' AND FRANcis SADLER, COMPLAINANTS,
v. THoAAs B.
HOOVER, SYLVANuS CHAMBERS, AND SAMUEL H. DINKINS, PART.

HERS BY THE STYLE OF

TuoMAs B.

HoovER AND CoxPANY.

Where an appeal from a Circuit Court, sitting in chancery, is brought up to this
court upon a certificata of division in opinion, and the certificate states that the
court was not able to agree in opinion, one of the judges being of opinion that a
decree should be rendered for the complainants, and the other that a decree should
be rendered for the defendants, this was not such a distinct statement of the point
or points upon which the judgesdiffered as would give this court jurisdiction.
The appeal must, therefore,.be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

THIS case -came up, on' a certificate of division, from, the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi.
The following is the statement of facts agreed upon in the
court belowj by the counsel for the respective parties, and sent
up with the record.
"NM. SADLER and FRANCIS SADLER,)
V.
In Chancery.
THOMAS B. HOOVER and others.
"In the Circuit - Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi.
"The bill states that at May term, 1839, of the Circuit Court,
the defendants, Thomas B. Hoover & Co.,'recovered judgment
against them, and one Francis Ross, their surety, for $ 3,501.84.
debt, and $ 383.65 damages, with interest theregn from the 17th
of May, 1839, and costs of suit; and at the same term, another
judgment against them, and one W. D. Henry, astheir surety,
for $ 7,881.66, with interest from the 17th of May, 1839, and
costs of -suit. That executions issued on said judgments, and
forthcoming bonds have been given with one Robert Ridley, as
security in each case, and that said bonds were returned forfeited to the November term, 1839, and executions about to
issue thereon; that the instruments of writing on which these

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

647"

Sa dler et al. v. Hoover et al.

jtdgments are founded were given by complainants, in consideration of certain slaves sold by the firm of Thomas B. Hoover
& Co. to them, on the 28th of October, 1836, and for which
bills of sale were given; t at complainants feel themselves
greatly aggrieved by the conduct of Thomas B. Hoover &
Co.; that they had an. understanding with Hoover, by which
they might have been relieved from the contract, but which
was not reduced to. writing wibh other. parts of the contrkct,
and complainantg~have thus been deprived of its benefit, and
will be" greatly injured if relief -is not afforded to them on the
grounds- hereafter stated.
" The complainants allege that the said slaves were introduced
into this State by the said Thomas B. Hoover, for himself and
partners' hut a few weeks previous to such sale, as merchandise,
and for sale, without any certificate of character, and were
sold without any record of certificate, contrary to the constitutioni
and laws
the State of Mississippi; and that the causes
of action,
on of
which the said judgments, are rendered, were
given in direct exchange for said slaves. That complainants
have been advised that this court will. interfere to prevent the
collection of these judgments if -they' will submit to act
rightly, and not use the occasionuo act fraudulently and unjustly. On this principle of equity, complainants submit to a
rescission of the contract, - offer to deliver up to defendants all
the said negroes now alive, and to account for the hire of them,
including, also, their, increase, and to perform whatever they
may be required by thb court.
"1Complainants aver that they were prevented from making
this defence at law, by advice of counsel, on account of decisions adverse to it previously made by this court and the Circuit.
Coirts of the State of Mississippi; and the current of decisions
to this effect was not broken into until the decision of this
court, at the late November term, (1839,) and until then complainants supposed they were not entitled to relief on this
ground, and under this belief they- entered into forthcoming
bonds. That defendants, Hoover & Co., are unwilling to
rescind said contract, and are about to enforce the collection of
said judgments. The bill .prays process, and a perpetual injunction against the judgments.
11On application to the district judge, he granted a fiat for an
injunction on the 4th of January, 1840, and injunction. was
issued accordingly.
" Previous to the May term, 1840, the defendants, Thomas B.
Hoover, Samuel H. Dinkins, and Sylvanus Chambers, members
of the firm of Thomas B. Hoover & Co., answered.
" Thomas B. Hoover, in his answer, admits that, as a member

648

SUPREME COURT.Sadler et al- v. Hoover et aL

of said -irm, and'on its behalf, a few weeks previous to the
sale, he introduced into the State of Mississippi, as merchandise,
and for sale, a number of -slaves, without any certificate of
character, or record of the same, and that he sold the, slaves
naned in the bill to the complainants, and took their bill of
exchange and note therefor, on which the said judgments were
Yendered. He denies, positively, any arrangement or understanding-between him and complainants, by which they were
to be relieved from their contract; that although these slaves
were introduced for sale, the defendant- insists on the validity
of the contract; that 'even regarding the contract as illegal, the
complainants having failed to make. this defence on the trials at
law, they are now precluded from availing themselves of this
ground of relief, in chancery; *especially that complainaits
have- given forthcoming bonds on which judgments have been
rendered.
"As to complainants' offer to rescind the contract and to restore the slaves, this defendant siates, that, on'a dissolution of
the partnership, he transferred the liabilities of complainants to
his copartners; he has, therefore, no control of the judgments;
that having made the contract of sale, he can state positively
that no fraud or imposition of any kind was practised on complainants; that the. contract was fair and honest on his part;
that the negroes were,as he -believes, sound and healthy, and
were sold at the customary prices.
"Samuel H. Dinkins, in his answer, admits that he was a
member of the firm of Thomas B. Hoover & Co.' He knows
nothing personally of the sale of the slaves, and on this point
refers to the answer of Thomas B. Hoover, the trading partner.
He -admits, however, that the slaves were sold to complainants;
that, after litigation on the instruments given for them, judgments were rendered against complainants for the sums-agreed
to be given. He insists on the legality and validity of the.
contract, and that the complainants, having failed to make this
defence at law, cannot now avail .themselves of it as a ground
of relief. He rejects the offer of the bill to rescind the contract,.
as being manifestly unjust, since the.great change. in- the value
of this property, and because -the complainants do 'not-offer toaccount for the value of three slaves since dead.
trSylvanus Chambers states in his answer, that, as to the introduction of the negroes into Mississippi, and their sale, he
knows nothing personally. He insists on the validity of the
contract, and that, whether originally legal or not, complainants
cannot now avail themselves of this ground for relief, having'
failed to set it up as a defence at law. He rejects, also, the
proposition to-rescind the contract, for the reasons stated in the

JANUARY TERM, 149.

649

Sadler et aL v. Hoover et al.

preceding answer, and insists that, as the contract was fairly
entered into, without any *ilfudl intent to violate the laws of
Mississippi, should the court decree it to .be void, he and
his partners should, be compensated also for the value of the
three, dead slaves- as there is no allegation of their unsoundness; and especially,'hg he. charges, that they died from the
cruel~treatment of the complainants.
"At May term, 1840, a motion was made, on the part of defendants, to dissolve the injunction, which motion was afterwards overinled.,
"At the May term, 1844, the cause came to a hearing on bill,
answers, and replication, before their Honors, Peter V. Daniel,
and Samuel J. Gholson, judges. And the court not being able
to agree in opinion, one' of the said judges being, of opinion
that a decree should be rendered for the compplainants; and the
other that a decree- should be rendered for the defendants, it
was ordered, at the' request of counsel on both sides,'that this
difference of opinion, be certified to the Supreme Court of the
United States for their'decision.
"The foregoing is a correct abstract of the material facts in.
the above-stated cause.
"LEA & LEZA, Complainants' Sol,
W.. R. HiLL, Defendtants' So.
"January 8, 1845."
The case was argued (in print) by Mr. Hill, for thedfen&
aits, but the question of the jurisdiction of this court was not
raised, and it is deemed unnecessary to-insert the argument of
the main point in the case.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of.the. court.
This case comes before us on a certificate of division. Rut,
upon inspecting the. record, it appears that the particular -point
or points upon which the justices of the Cirjuit Court differed
in opinion are not distinctly stated; and -the case must -therefore be dismissed for -want of jurisdiction.

-

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi,* and on the point and questior" on which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was certified to this court for its
opinion agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made
and provided, and was argued by counsel. And it- appearing
to this court, upcn an inspection of the said transcript that no
vOL. VI.
55

650..

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v.. Gibson.

point in the case, within the meaning of thQ act of Congress,
has been certified to this court, it is thereupon now here or'dered and decreed by- this court, that this cause be and the
same is hereby dismissed,- and that this cause be and the same
is hereby remanded to. the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded
in according to law.

FREDERICK J. AND SAxTEIL W. BARED AND HENRY Q. HAWLEY,
APPELLANTS,

V.

JOHN GIBSbO.*

Where a decre in chhneery refers thq matters to a.master to ascertain the -amount
of damiges, and in the mean time the bill is not dismissed, nor is there a decree
for costs, the decree is not a final one, from which an appeal will lie to this court,
although there is a perpetual injunction granted,
The amount of damage which will follow from restraining a party from using a
machine held under a patent right is a proper considerationto be addressil to
the' Circuit Court but does not cdstitute a ground of appeal.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York.
The question being, whether or not the decree of the Circuit Court was final, the Reporter thinks it proper to insert the
whole of that decree, together with the statement of facts, as
he finds it prepared by Mr. Justice Nelson.
Circuit Court, United States.
JOHN GIBSON~

V.

.

nEquity

E
and others.)
I.
W. Woodworth conveyed to John Gibson the exclusive-right to the Woodworth planing-machinte in and for the
city and county of Albany, with the single exception of two
rights .in the town of Watervliet, in said county. With this
exception, the whole right of the co"unty was in Gibson.
1. The two machines, the right to use which was thus
excepted, consisted, first, of a machine in use at the time in
said town by Rousseau and Edston, which had been erected
under the first term of the .patent, and the right to continue
which they claimed during any extension of the gi.ent; and,
second, of- a machine which Gibson had conveyed to Woodworth, "andby him to Rousseau and Easton.
II. Woodworth, on the 19th of May, 1842, agreed with.
FREDZDEICK J. BAPR ND
-W.

31r. Chief Justice Taney did not sit in this cause, being indisposed at the time
it was argued.

