60

SUP-REME COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

ments of counsel thereupon had, as -well in support of. as
against -the motion, it is now here -ordered by this court, that
the said motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

THE STATE OF Missounx, Cok.PLA-NANT, v. TnE STATE OP IOWA,
RESFONDENT.
THE STATE OF IOWA, -COMPLAINANT, v. "Th STATE OF MissouRi,
Cross-BW.
RESPONDENT.The western and northern boundary-lines of the State of Missouri, as described in the
first article of the constitution of that State, were as follows:--from a point in the
middle of the Kansas River, where the same empties into the Missouri Rver, running due north along a meridian line, to the intersection of the parallel of latitude which passes through the rapids of the River Des Moines, making said line
correspond with the Indian boundar-line; thence east from the point of intersection
last aforesaid, along the said parallel, to the middle of the channel-of the-main
fork of the said River Des Moines; thence, &c., &c.
The constitution of the State of Missouri was adopted in 1820. But in 1816, an
Indian-bounds ,T-linehad been run -by the'authority of the United States; which
in its north course did not terminate at its intersection with the parallel of lati-tude which passed through the rapids of the River Des Moines, and in its east
course did not coincide with that parallel, or uny parallel of latitude at all.
Missouri claimed that this north line should be continued until it intersected4a.parallel of latitude wbih passed through certain rapids in the River Des 2oines,
and from the p4nt of intersection be run eastwardly along the parallel to these
rap"as
that this Indian boundary-line was protracted too far to the noith;
Iowalimed
that by the-terin "rapids of the River'4es Moines" were meant certain rapids in
the Mississippi Rivef, known by that name, and that the parallel of latitude must
pass through these rapids; the effect of which would be to'stopthe Indian boundary-line in its progress north, before it arrived at the spot which had, been
marked by the United States surveyor.
There being a bill and a cross-bill, each State is a defendant, and this court can pass
. such a decree as the case requires.
The southern bundary-line of Iowa is coincident with, and dependent upon, the
northern boundary-line of Missouri.
Iowa is bound by the acts of its predecessor, the government of the United Stses,
which had plenary jurisdiction over he subject as long as Iowa remained a Terrtoy; and the tnited States recognized the Indian boundrylne,.-lst. By
taties made with the Indians; 2d. By the acts of the general. land-office; 3d.
-By Congressional legislation.
On the other hand, there are no rapids in the River Des Moines so conspicuous as
.
to justify the claim of MissourL
This court therefore adopts the old Indian boundary-line as the dividing line bebe run and marked by commistween the two States, and decrees that ii shabl
sioners.

THE State of Missouri filed a bill against the' State of Iowa,
in the Supreme Court of the United States, with the consetit
of the State of iowa, in order to gettle a controversy which'
had arisen respecting the' true location of the- boundary-line
which. divided the two States.

The origin of the controversy is o fully stated by Mr Jus-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

661

kissouri v. Iowa.

tice Catron, in delivering the opinion of the court, that it is
only necessary for the Reporter to -explain the pretensions of
the -respective parties according to the map, without which
they canh1ot be understood.. This map or diagram is only intended to be illustrative of these claims, without pretending to,
be geographically accurate.

M-

In July, 1820, the people living in the then Territory of
Missouri, in piirsuance of an -act of Congress, adopted a constitution, in which are described the following boundaries:."Beginning in the middle of the Mississippi River, on the
parallel of thirty-six degrees of,.north latitude ;,thence westalong the said parallel of latitude to the St. Francois River;
VOL. VII
56-

SUPREME. COURT.
Missouri v. Iows.

thence up and following the course of that river, in the middle of the main channel thereof, to, the parallel of, latitude of
thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes; thence west along the
same to a point where the said parallel is intersected by a meridian line passing through the, middle of the mouth 'of the,
Kaisas River, where the same empties into the Missouri River;
thence, from the point aforesaid, north along the said meridian
line, to the intersection of the parallel' of latitude which
.passes through the rapids of the River Des Tdoines, making
said line correspond with the Indian boundary-line; thence
east from the point of intersection last 'aforesaid, 'along the
said parallel of latitude, to the middle of the channel of the
main fork. of the said River Des Moines; thence down along
the middle of the main channel of the said River Des Moinesto the mouth of the same, where it empties into the Mississippi River; 'thence. due east to the middle of the main channel
of the Mississippi River; thence down and following the course
of the 'Mississippi River, in the middle of the main channel
thereof, to the place of beginning."
In 1821, Missouri was admitted into the Union with these
boundaries.
By an act of Congress, approved August 4, 1820, the southermi boundary of Iowa was made identical with the northern
boundary of Missouri.
In 1816, prior to the passage of these laws, commissioners
were appointed on the part of the United States to settle with,
the Osage chiefs the boundary of the cession 'which the
Osage tribe had just made to the United States, and John C.
Sullivan was appointed surveyor to run the .line which 'should
be thus agreed upon.
Beginning on the bank of the Missouri, 'opposite the mouth
of .the Kansas, at A in the diagram, he ran north just 100
miles to the point C; and thence pursued what he th6ught
was a due east course, (but which was in fact t&the north of
east,) until he struck the River Des- Moines at the point F.
This line is marked No. 1, and runs from C to F; the true
parallel of'latitude being afterwards ascertained to be from C
to. G.
The State of Missouri alleged, that, at the point E in the
River Des Moines, there existed rapids which answered the
call in the constitution, and that the parallel of latitude spoken
of in that ,instrument must consequently' be a line- running
from B toD, and that the north line, which commenced at
A, must therefore be protracted to D, where it intersected the
parallel oflatitude called for.; that the phrase, logy used required
the "rapids of the River Des Ioines" to be in that river, and
not ik the Mississippi.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

663

Missouri v. Iowa.

On the other hand, it was alleged, by the State of Iowa,
that in the Mississippi River,'at the place marked H1, there
were rapids which were commonly called and known by the
name of "the rapids- of the 'River Des Woines,,"' long anterior
to the formation of the constitution of Miss6uri; that the
parallel of latitude must run through the -head or centre of
these rapids, and that the line H B would therefore be the
true boundary, the point B being the spot where this parallel
of latitude would intersect the line running north from A.
These were the claims of the respective parties. To sustain them, a great mass of evidence was taken' on both sides.
The cause was argued by Mr. Gamble and Mr. Green, for
the State of Missouri, and Mr. Ewing and Mr. Mason, for
the State of Iowa.
The Reporter regrets that he cannot give an extended notice of the arguments bf the respective counsel. But he is
admonished, by the size which this volume has already attained, that he must'reduce the cases which are yet to be, reI
ported to as small A compass as possible.
The positions assumed by the counsel respectively are thus
stated in the briefs of Mr. Green, for Missouri, and Mr.
Ewing, for Iowa.

Mr. Green.
On the part of the State of Missouri it is insisted, 1tt. That the words "rapids of the River Des Moines"
constitute the controlling call to determine the northeri boundary, and that the natural and obvious import of these words
is " raids of and in the River Des Moines itself."
2d. 9That the evidence establishes the fact, that there are
rapids in the River Des Moines.
. 3d. That there is no ambiguity in reference to the river of
which the rapids are spoken, and none as to the rapids, unless
more rapids than one are found in the River Des Moines."
4th. That having established the fact that there are rapids
in the River Des Moines, thus satisfying the call of the constitution, no evidence can be introduced to contradict or vary
the meaning of the constitution, or to prove that rapids of
some other river -were intended, different from that which the
language indicates and describes.
5th. That the evidence offered does not prove the rapids-in the Mississippi River to have been'commonly known and
called by the name "rapids of the River Des Moines," as alleged by Iowa.
6th. That if it were true that the rapids of the Mississippi
were"commonly known and called "r ap ids of the River Des

664

SUPREME COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

Moines," still these rapids could not be taken as the rapids
called for, as they do not answer to the description, while those
in the Des Moines fulfil exactly the description, and none others
will.
7th. But if the constitution be- considered ambiguous, as
between the rapids of the River Des Moines and rapids of the
Mississippi, it serves only to let in proof of intention beyond
what the language indicates. And on this point the evidence
.is clear in favor of Missouri.
From a full examination of all the facts and circumstances,
-as established by the evidence in connection with the Ianguage of the constitution, and by giving to each the weight
to which it is entitled, we contend, in behalf of Missouri lst. That the old, Indian boundary-line (marked as line-No.
1 on the diagram) cannot be the true northern boundary of
Missouri, and the terms of the descriptive call do not allow
the adoption of that line.
2d. That the parallel of latitude passing through the old
northwest comer of the IndiafrNboundary (marked on the diagram as line No. 2)_ is - neither legally nor equitably the northem boundary of Missouri.
3d. That the-parallel of latitude passing through the rapids
of the Mississippi River (marked on diagram as line No. 3) will
not fulfil the descriptive call of the constitution, and cannot
be the northern line of the State.
4th. That the parallel of latitude passing through the rapids of the River Des Moines, at the Big Bend, in latitude 40
degrees 44 minutes 6 seconds north, (marked -on the diagram
as line No. 4,) will precisely and accurately satisfy the descri-6
fiye call of the constitution, and is the true northern bounday7
of the State of Missouri, as estallished by her constitution.
Mr. Ewing, for Iowa.
We will endeavour to show by the evidence, that, at the
time of the adoption of the constitution, there was one, object,
and one only, namely, the rapids of the Mississippi, a few
miles above the mouth of the Des Moines River, which was
called in English "the rapids of the River Des. Moines," and
in French "les rapides de la Rividre Des Moines," which object had notoriety by that name; and that its position is every
way adopted to satisfy the locative call.
We shall also expect to show by the evidence, that -there
were no rapids in the River Des Moines, then called, or: entitled to be 6alled, on account of position or magnitude, . the
Vtaids of- the-River-Des Moines."
Thepe facts. being established, we will insist that the noto--

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

665

Missouri v. Iowa.

rious object -bearing the name used in the locative call, and
every way, satisfying the call, must be taken in law to be the
object called for; and that the centre of "the rapids of -the
River Des Moines " in the Mississippi is the point over which
the line of latitude marking the boundary of the State of Missouri must run.
1st. We will show by public acts, and by numerous witnesses, the position of CCthe rapids of the River DesMoines" ;
that they are the same with the lower or Des Moines rapids of
the Mississippi, and that those rapids were in 1820, and prior
thereto, well known by the name of "the rapids of the River.
Des Moines" in English, and "les rapides de la Rividre Des
Moines '? in French;
2d. We will infer from- the language of the constitution itself, and the'then existing knowledge of th- couitry, that
"the rapids of the River Des Moines" were called for in the.
constitution merely to fix the parallel of latitude on which the
boundary-line was to run, and were not supposed to be touched
by that line.
3d. We will show bY actual survey,. a well as by general
evidence, that there are no rapids in the Des Moines entitled
to the, general descriptive appellation of "the rapids f the
River Des Moines."
4th. And we will insist that in 1820 there were no rapids-in
the Des Moines River known as "the rapids of the River
Des Moines."
5th. We will contend, that ihe State of Missouri has failed
to prove -a general understanding or opinion in Congress and in
the convention counter to what we have shown to -be the obvious construction of the act of Congress and of the consti-'
tution of Missohri, when taken in, connection -with the wellestablishedl facts.
6th. We will contend, that the evidence on the part of Missouri shows that all, or nearly all, of the members of the convention,.and other witnesses who supposed, or now think they
supposed, the rapids named in the constitution' were in the Des
Moines River, knew nothing of any particular rajids to which
the constitution referred; but that their impression was vague
and general, fixibg on no actual known or existing object.
7th. We will show-.that the evidence which tends to give
to rapids in the Des Moines River a distinct locality and name
is insufficient, and unsatisfactory, and that in the aggregate it
applies as well to' the Sweet Home or the Fermington rapids,
as to the rapids of the Big'Bend.
8th. We will insist that the rapids at St. Francisville and
the rapid at Farmington are each and either of them better
664

666

'SUPR'EXB COURT.
Misso'uri v. Iowa.

entitled to the appellation of "Ahe rapids of the River Des
Moines." than the r.pids at the Great Bend, -the
first because of its position, the second because -it is the greater rapid.
'And that the rapids at Sweet Home conform better than those
at the Great Bend to the locative calls in the constitution, and
to contemporaneous opinion and usage. Fall at Great Bend,
in' 87 rods, 1.80 feet. Fall at Farmington, in 87 rods, 2.05
feet.
9th. if we succeed in maintaining these propositions, we
establish as matters of fact, that the lower rapids of the Mississippi were the object, and the only object, which, in 1820,
bore in English the name used in the'constitution, "the rapids
of the'. River Des Moines," and in French the name used in
the translation, "les rapides de la Rivi&re Des Moines."' And
that, at that time, they had notoriety in both languages by
those names, and that they every waysatisfy the lccative call.
10th. And these facts being established, we will contend
that those. rapids' are-, and nmust be held in law to 'be, the object called for ; and'that the centro of that object, namely, the
centre of "the rapids of the River Des Moines" in the Mississippi, 'is, the point over which, the line of latitude must be
drawn which shall mark the nbrthern boundary of tle State of
Missouri.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 10th day of December, A. D. 1847, the State of
Missouri filed her original bill 'in this court, according to the
third -article and second section of the Constitution, against
-the State of Iowa, alleging that the northern part of said State
of Missouri was obtruded on and clainied by the defendant,
-for a space of more than ten miles -wide and about two hundre'd miles long; and that the State of Missouri is wrongfully
ousted of her jurisdiction over said territory, and obstructed
from governing therein; that the State of Ibwa has actual
'possession of 'the same, claims it to be within her limits, and
exercises jurisdiction over .it, contrary to the rights of the.
State of Missouri,:and in defiance of, her authority.
I And the complainant prays, that, on a final hearing, the
northern boundary-line, of 'said State of Missouri (being the
common boundary between the complainant and defendant)
be, by the order of this court, ascertained and established ; and
that the rights of possession, jurisdiction, and' sovereignty to
all 'the territory in controversy be restored to the State of Missouri; that she be quieted in hor title thereto; and that'the defendant, the State of Iowa, be for ever enjoined and restrained
from disturbing the Siate of Missouri,.her officerg and people,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

66

Missouri v. Iowa.

in the full possession and enjoyment of said territory, thus
wrongfully held by the State of Iowa.
To this bill the -State of Iowa answers. She denies the
right claimed by Missouri; alleges that Iowa has the sovereign
authority, to govern and hold the territory in dispute as part
of her territory, the common line dividing the States bin
the southern part thereof; and also prays, that the rights of the
parties may be speedily adjudicated by this court, that fhb
relief prayed by complainant may be denied, and that -he; kil
be dismissed.
To the bill of Missouri Iowa files her cross-bill, chrTng:
Missouri with seelI'hg to encroach on the territorial limits:of
Iowa to thh extent af6resaid, and more;. prays, that, on a final
hearing, a decree be made by this court, settling for ever the true
and rightful dividing line between the two States; that Iowa
may be quieted in.her possession, jurisdiction, and sovereignty
up to the line she claims; and that the State of Missouri be perpetually enjoined from exercising jurisdiction and authority, and
from disturbing the State of Iowa, her officers and people, in the
enjoyment of their. rights on the north side of the true line.
To this bill the State of Missouri answers, and sets up in
defence the same matters set forth by her original bill.
.Replications were filed to both answers. On these .issues
depositions were taken, on which, together with much of historical and docuimentary evidence, the cause was brought on to
a hearing, and was heard with a most commehdable spirit of
liberality on both sides. And we' tak e occasion here to say,
on a: matter of practice, that bill and cross-bill is deemed'- the
most appropriate mode of proceeding applicable to cases like
the present, -as it always offers an opportunity to the court of
making an affirmative decree for the one side or the other, and
of establishing by its authority the disputed line, and of having
-it permanently marked by commissioners of its own appoint-.
ment, if that be necessary, as in this cause it is.
The 'present controversy originated in 1837, between theUnited States and the State of Missouri,' and was carried on
for ten years before Iowa was admitted as a State. Previous
to the controversy, and after Missouri came into the Union, in
1821, many acts had been done by both parties most materially
affectihg 'the controversy, and tending to cormpromit the claims
now set up, on the one side as well as the other. The new
State of Iowa came into the Union, December 27, 18A7, and
up to this date she was bound by the acts of her predecessor,
the United States, forasmuch as the latter might have directly conceded to Missouri a new boundary on the north, as
was done on the west; and so, likewise, Iowa is bound by the

. ffi

SUPREME COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

acts and admissions of the United States, tending indirectly to
'confirm and establish a particular line as the northern boundary
of Missouri. And to ascertain how far the United States government was committed by .acts to a particular line, a brief
historical notice is necessary, showing how jurisdiction has
been exercised in the country west of the Mississippi River.
It was acquired in 1803, and in 1804 the Territory of 0rleans and the District of Louisiana, were divided, the latter
then embracing what, is now the State of Missouri, and -much
more. In 1805, the District of Louisiana was erected into a
separate territorial government, the name of which was changed
to Missouri, on the State of Louisiana being created, in 1812,
that State having adopted the name of Louisiana. In 1819,
the Territory of Arkansas was formed from the southern part
of the Missouri Territory; the lines of division being the
same that now divide the States of Missouri gnd Arkansas.
In 1818, the inhabitants of Missouri Territory petitioned
Congress that it might be admitted into the Union as an independent State. They set forth the boundaries which they
desired that the new State should havre, with the reasons favorable to the boundaries desired. They alleged that the' petitioners resided in that part of the terptorywnich lies between
thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes and forty degrees north i
and between the Mississippi River east, and the Qsage boundary-line west; and they prayed to be admitted into the Union
of the States within these limits. The petitioners further declared, that "1the boundaries which.'they solicit for the future
State they believe to be- the most reasonable and proper that
can be devised. The'southein limit will be an extension of
the line that divides Virginia and North Carolina, Tennessee
and Kentucky.' The northern will correspond nearly with the
north limit of the, te6rritory of Illinois, and with the Indian
boundary-line, near the mQuth of the River Des Moines. A

front of three-and a half degrees upon the Mississippiwill be
left to the South, to form the Territory of Arkansas, ,with
the River Arkansas traversing its centre. A front of three and
a half degrees more,' upon a medium depth of two hundred
miles, with the Missouri River in the pentre, will form the
State of Missouri. Another front of equal extent, embracing
the great River St. Pierre, will remain above, to form another
State -t some future day. The boundaries, as solicited, will
include all the country to the north and west to which the
Indian title has been extinguished. They will include the
body of the population."
The two Indian boundary-lines referred to (is, "the Osage
or Indian boundary ") were run in -pursuance of a treaty made

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

669

Missouri'v. Iowa.-

in 1808, between the United States and the Great and Litetl
Osage nations by which it was stipulated that the Osage
boundary should begin at Fort Clark, standing on the south
bank of Missouri- River, about twenty-three miles below the.
mouth of the Kansas, thence running due south to the Arkansas River, and with it to its mouth; thereby ceding to the
United States all lands lying east of said line, and north of the
southwardly bank of the Arkansas. The treaty also ceded
"all lands belonging to the Osages situated northwardly of the
River Missouri."
The boundary-lines were to be run and
marked as soon as the circumstances and convenience of the
parties would permit. And the Great and Little. Osages promised to depute two chiefs from their respective nations to accompany the commissioner oi commissioners who might be
appointed by the United States to settle and adjust the said
boundary. Thewar of 1812 seems to have hindered a survey of the. lines, as, in 1815, by another treaty, peace, was reestablished between the contracting parties, and former treaties
were renewed, and in' 1816 John C. Sullivan was sent by
the United States to ran'the-lines north of the Missouri River.
The Osages, by the treaty of 1808, having surrendered all
claim to territory north of the Missouri River, it *became necessary that -they should show to the United States what part
of that country they owned, so that it might be separated, by a
defined boundary, from other Indian territories. Sullivan, the
surveyor, commenced his first line on the north bank of the
Missouri, opposite to the middle of the mouth of the Kansas,
and ran north one hundred miles, made a corner, and theii ran
east to the River -Des Moines, about one hundred and fifty
miles more, west of the first line, and north of the second.
The entire country was then claimed, and partly occupied, by
different nations of -Indians. In 1816, also, Joseph C. Brown
ran. the line from Fort Clark south. to- the Arkansas Rivet, in
execution of the treaty of 1808. And the lines run by Brown
and Sullivan are "the Indian'bouhdary" referred to in the foregoing petition of the inhabitants of Missouri Territory.
In March, 1818, the petition was referred to a select committee; and on March. 6th, 1820, an act of Congress was passed,
pursuant to the petition, authorizing th6 people of Missouri Territory to form a constitution and State government within the
limits designated by the act ; that is to say, - ,1Beginning in
the xniddle of the Mississippi River, on the parallel -of thirty-six
degrees of north latitude; thence west along the said parallel
of latitude to the St. Frangois River; thence up and following
the course of that river, in the middle of the main channel
thereof, to the parallel of latitude of thirty-six degrees and:

670

SUPREME COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

thirty, minutes; thence west along'the same to a point where
the said .paiallel is intersected by a meridian line passing
through the middle of the mouth of the Kansas River, where
the same empties into the Missouri River; thence, from the
point aforesaid, drth along the said meridian line, to the'intersection of .the parallel of latitude which passes through the
rapids of. the River Des Moines, making said line correspond
with the Indian b6undary-line; thence east from the point of
intersection last aforesaid, along the said parallel of latitude,' to
the middle of the channel of the main fork of the said River
Des Moines ;. thence down along the middle of the main channel of the said River Des Moines to the mouth of the same,
where it empties into the Mississippi River; thence due east
to the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi River;
thence down and following the course of the Mississippi River,
in the middle of the main channel -thereof, to the place of be;ginning."
According to this law, the peopl6 of the Territory, in 1820,
proceeded to form a constitution, by which the boundary prescribed by the act" of Congress was adopted; and by resolution of March 2, 1831, the State was admitted to enter the
Union on certain conditions, to which she assented in Jume,
1821. On the north and west, as already stated, the new
State bordered on Indian territory, over which the general
government exercised that modified jurisdiction which existing Indian rights would allow,-and had the exclusive power
to extinguish the Indian title. - The boundaries were therefore common to the two governments, and the acts of either,
when exercising jurisdiction with respect .to the common
boundary, become proper subjects of consideration in the resent controversy, as either government might -bind itself to
a practical line, although not a precisely true one, within the
foregoing description. And in pursuing. this -branch of the
subject, our, first inquiry will be, low far the general government has committed itself to the old Indian boundary. Its.
action has be-en, first,, through the Indian department; secondly, through' the surveyor's department; and thirdly, by
the exercise of civil jurisdiction in the territorial form of
government on the north of Sullivan's line, embracing the
-territory now in controversy.
And;. first, as to Indian treaties. The earliest one materially
bearing on the question was that of August 4, 1824, with
the Sac and Fox tribes. They ceded to the United States all
the title and claim that they had to any lands within the limits of the State of -Missouri, "which are situated, lying, and
-being between -the Mississippi and'Missouri Rivers, and a line

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

671

Missoitri -v. Iowa.

running from the Missouri, at the entrance of the Kansas River,
north one hundred miles to the northwest corner of the State
of Missouri, and frcm thence east to the Mississippi; reserving
to.the half-breeds of said tribes the small tract in-the fork between the Mississippi and Des Moines Rivers, and south of th6
said line."' The Indian tribes admitted that the land east and
south of the given lines belonged to the, United States, and
that none of their people should be permitted to settld or hunt on
it. Although the Osages had, in part, ceded the same country
in 1808, still the Sacs -and Foxes set up a claim to part of it,
and the treaty of 1824 was made to quiet their claim
June 3, 1825, the Kansas tribe also ceded to the' United
States all claim they had to any lands in the State of Missouri,
and further ceded and relinquished all other lands which they
then occupied, or to which -they had title or claim, "lying
west of the said State of Missouri, and within the following
boundaries: beginning at the entrance of the Kansas into
-the Missouri River; from thence north to the northwest corner
of the State of Missouri," thence north and west. -Of course,
the northwest corner herm referred to was the one made by
Sullivan in 1816, as none other was then claimed by Missouri
herself, nor kxiiwn to the United States or the Indians.
In Febrary, 1831, the Statie of Missouri, by a memorial from
the legislature to Congress, petitioned the United States for an
addition of the country west of the line running froin the
mouth of the Kansas north, and between said line and the
Missouri River, alleging that it was a small slip ,of land that had
been acquired, by the treaty of June 3d, 1825, from the Kansas
Indians. The petition deglared, that the line from the mouth
of the Kansas north was about one hundred miles long; that
the country was settled, and rapidly settling, to its utmost
yerge; and that,*as the Missouri River -was the only great highway of this region, and could not be reached through a country inhabited by Indians, and being without roads, a cession of
it to that State was necessary and proper.
June 7, 1836, Congress acceded to the request of Missouri,
and granted to- that State all' jurisdiction over the lands lying
beiween iis then western line and the Missouri River, making
the river the western boundary. But the accession was not to
take-effect until- the Indian title.to the ceuntry was extinguished.
By the treaty of July 15, 1830, -ten confederated tribes conjointly ceded a large tract of country to the United States, the
boundar'y of wrhich began near the head of the Des Moines Rive',
and passed westwardly to the north of the principal rivers falling into the Missouri, and down Calumet River to the, Missouri, and down the same to the Missouri State line at the

672

SUPREME 0OURT.
Missouri v. Idwa

Inouth of the Kansas; thence along said State line to-the
northwest corner of the State; and then northwardly and
eastwardly various courses to the place of beginning. And
within this boundary the tribes were to be located and superintended by the United States, pursuant to a policy now generally prevailing, and by which the Indians east of the Mississippi
River have been removed west of it. By this treaty, the neck
of land between the Missouri River. and the .then western line
of Missouri Was appropriated for the benefit of these tribes. To
remove this .impediment, and gratify the request of the State to
have her limits enlarged, a treaty was made on the 17th of
September, 1836, with the Iowas, Sacs, anid Foxes, recitiog the
facts, so -far as the Indians were interested, and also that it was
desirable and necessary that the country should be attached to
the State of Missouri ; and thereupon these Indian tribes (being
part of the ten) did. cede and'relinquish to the United States
all their right and interest to the lands lying between the State
of Missouri and the Missouri River; and the. United States
were exonerated from the guaranty imposed on them by the
treaty of 1830, known as the Treaty of Prairie du Chien.
And on the 27th of September, 1836, another band of the Sac
and Fox tribes made. a similar cession. Aid on the 15th of
October, 1836, various, bands of the Sioux, by another treaty,
also assented to.-the cession, but in more definite terms: they
gave a-quitclaim to the United States of their interest in. the
lands "lying between -the State" of Missouri and the .Missouri
River; and south of a line -running due west from the northwest corner of the State to the Missouri River." The country
hai ing been disencumbered of the Indian title, the President,
by proclamation of March 28, 1837", declared that the act of
Congress of June 7, 1836, should take effect;: and thereby the
ceded territory became a part of the State of Missouri.
There are, in all, fifteen Indian treaties referring to the)
Osage boundary of .1816, as run by Sullivan, each of which
recognizes that boundary as the Missouri State line; and all of
which treatie: were made after Missouri was admitted into the
Union, and before Iowa became a State. And as -the treaties
were drawn by auth6rity of the United States, -they must be
taken as recognitions, on the part of the general government,
that the Missouri boundary and the old Indian boundary are-,.
identical,
In the second place, it is proper 'to inquire how far the
general government has recognized the Indian boundary-line
of 1816" in its land department. By the act of February 17,
1818, the Hovard District was 'established. This extended
west to the old. Indian boundary, and ran with it from the.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

673

Misouri v. low.

mouth of the Kansas north, through its whole length, and
thence east with Sullivan's line to where it intersected the
range line ten west from the principal meridian; extending on
the east libe about four fifths of its length.
In 1823 this district was divided, and a western one established fronting on the twQ lines.
To the eastern part of Sullivan's line, next to the Des
Moines River, the St. Louis District extended until 1824. when
the Salt River- District was established, running west to the
range line between ranges 13 and 14; thence north to thenorthern boundary-line of the State of Missouri; thence east
with the State line to the River Des Moines, and down the
same with the State line.
By the act of August 29, 1842, the western land district was
divided, and that part of it lying north of the Missouri River
,had attached to it the Platte country; that is to say, the
country annexed to Missouri by the act of Congres§ o 1836,
lying west of the old Indian boundary, and next to the Missouri
River. '
When acting through the surveyor's departmEnt of public
lands, on the Missouri side, the general government has never
recognized on the north, nor, until the Platte country was
attached, on the west, any boundary as belouging to that State
other than the two Indian lines run by Sullivan in 1816, so
far as they extended.
The country north of the State of Missouri was for a time,
attached to the Territory of Michigan, and then to the Territory of Wisconsin. By the act of June 12, 1838 (ch. 96), it
was formed into a separate territorial government, by the name
of.Iowa. And by another act Qf tfe same date (ch. 100), the
territory was formed into two land districts; the southern one
embracing the country-in dispute.
And on the Iowa side, the public surveys were executed, and
lands were sold, up to Sullivan's northern line. -Nor had the
Surveyor-General of Illinois and Missouri any jurisdiction to go
beyond it north; nor the surveyor's department of Iowa, to
cross it by surveys to the south. From the time that Missouri
became a State.to this day, Sullivan's line*has been recognized
by the United States as the true northern boundary of Missouri, so far as it could be done through the department of
public lands.
And thirdly, Congress, as early as 1834, organized a territorial government bounded by said line; laid off counties
bounded by it on the south, as early as 1836; and governed
the territory for ten years up to that line, - all the time recognizing it as the proper northern borndary of Missouri.
57
voL. v11.

674

SUPREMEl COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

From tbese-facts it is too manifest for argument to make it
more so,: that the United States were committed to this line
wheni Iowa came into the Union. And, as already stated, Iowa
must abide by ihe condition of her prededessor, and cannot now
be heard to disavow the .old Ibidian line as her true southern

boundary.
The State of Inwa, by her cross-bill, alleges that Missouri.
also treated the old Indian boiRi zry as her true northern
line, until 'about the year 1836; and that said line, at its
western. extremity, is about six miles north of the parallel of
latitude which is*the proper dividing line between the two
States, and that, at its eastern extremity, it is about ten miles
,north of the same; that the parallel of latitude on which the
line should -un is found at a point opposite the middle of the
.rapids in the Mississippi River -known as "the Des Moines
Rapids." This rapid begins about. three miles above the mouth
'of the Des Moines River, and extends up the Mississippi about
fourteen miles. It is a highly notorious geographical object,
and a very proper one to govern a fntional boundary ;" but the
.name called for in.the -act of Congress of 1820,'and in the
constitution of Missouri, is ;"the rapids of the River Des
Moines." Then, and' ever since, the great'rapid in the Mississippi River has bebn known .by a different name. It is
.therefore left-uncertain whether the rapid in the Mississippi was
the one referred to; and the obscurity is greatly increased by
'tmost embarrassing disiagreement among the witnesses testifying on this head,
The name given in the act of Congress taken in connection
with its context, would assuredly apply to a rapid in the Des
Moines River, if a notorious one existed, as the Mississippi River
is not mentioned id the call, and the Des'Moines is; nor was
the Mississippi River to be reached by that line. Then, again,
the rapid is fourteen miles long, and no part of it is called for
as an opposite point to found the line upon.
It therefore. follows, that the claim of Iowa to come south to
the middle of the rapid throws us on a doubtful and forced
construction of the instrument under consideration; and
such a construction we are not, willing to adopt, even .if
Iowa -could at this day set up a claim :to its adoption, which,
for the reasons above stated, we think she cannot be allowed
'to do.
The State of Missouri, by her bill, 'disavows the old Indian
boundary, and utterly denies that the great Des Moines rapid
in the River Mississippi is the object 'called for in her constitution. She insists that the true rapids Are found in the. Des
Moines, and that her northern line has been run and marked

JANUARY T-ERM, 1849.
Missouri v.

675

rowa.

from the true rapids, west to the Missouri River. The history
of this line is as follows: -In December, 1836, the legislature
of Missouri passed an act requiring the northern boundary of
that State to be surveyed and marked under the direction of the
executive; and in June, 1837, the governor appointed three
commissioners to execute the law, who acted under special
instructions from the-executive. The commissioners appointed
Joseph C. Brown their engineer and surveyor, and commenced
the work in July- following; and after having examined the
Des Moines, from a point nearly one hundred miles up the river,
downward to its mouth, to ascertain the true rapids called fSf
in the State constitution, determined on the proper place where,
in their judgment, the line should begin; and from that place
the line was run and marked due west to the Missouri River;
and this is known as Brown's line. It lies aBout ten miles'
north of the old Indian boundary. And, by ah act of the legislature of Missouri, passed 11th February, 1839, the line so run
and marked by Brown was declared to be the northern boludary-line of said State, and has been claimed by her as siihsince that time.
On the rapids selected by the commissioners and on
Brown's line, the bill of complaint of the State of Aissouri is
altogether founded; and if she fails in establishing the proper
place of beginning, she has Aio case, and must go out of court
as a complainant, and can have no relief further than an injunction to restrain Iowa from obtruding on her jurisdiction
south of the true line, wherever it may be found, should Iowa
attempt to go south of such line.
'The main question arising on the original bill of the State of
Missouri therefore is, whetaer- any rapid exists in the Des
Moines River of such a prominent character as to correspond to

the call in her constitution of

"THE RAPIDS OF THE RIVxER DES

Momms." On this branch of our inquiries we are furnished
with highly satisfactory evidence. By the act of August 8,
1846, the Iowa Territory had granted to it, by Congress,- every_
alternate section of land.not then disposed of, lying in. a strip
of -five miles wide on each -side of the Des Moines River, for
the improvement of the same from its mouth to a long distance
up, and which grant was to accrue to the be'etit of the State
when she should come into the Union.' To carry into effect
the act of Congress, a board of public works was organized for
the improvement of the river. They employed an engineer to
survey and level it with a'view to slack-water improvements,
and it was surveyed from its mouth for ninety-three miles upwards. The engineer had every advantage of suitable instruments, low water, and ice in the winter, and no -doubt.exists of

,676

SUPREME COURT.
ipsOuri V. low&.

AiBhi
accuracy when performing the field operations imd in making the levels.
.-The first ripple he camb to, worthy of notice there, was
twenty-four miles from the mouth of the river; and, on eighty
rods of its greatest descent, he found .73 foot fall.
On the 2th mile is "Sweet-home Ripple." There was
found a fall of .85 foot in eighty rods.
On the 34th mile, at Farmington, he found a fall bf 2.27
feet in'ninety-six rods, and in eighty rods 1.89 feet.
I
On the 42d mile, he found a ripple .(near Benton's Port) of
1.26 feet fall in sixty rods, and 1.68 in eighty rods.
On the. 51st mile, being at the great bend, where Browns
line commences, the engineer found a fall of 1.75 feet in
eighty rods, - that is to say, twenty-one inches. Brown had*
also taken a level there of a space of some sixty xods, in August, 1837, and found a fall in that distance of 1 foot 93 inches;
but his instruments were not so reliable. The bottom of the
river is rock at that place, and there is a thin stratum at one
point, over which the water breaks, when the river is low.
On the 53d mile, a fall was found in eighty rods ok 1.75
feet by the engineer of Iowa.
On the 55th mile, afall of 1.81 feet was.found in eighty rods.
On the 93d mil&, a fall was found in eighty rods of 2.10 feet.
A line extended due west from this greatest fall woild lie
about twenty miles north of Brown's line, the river being very
crooked. From this point downwards, it was examined by the
commissioners of Missouri in 1837.
The shoals on the 34th mile, at Farmington, on the 42d, at
Benton's Port, and at the great bend at Van Buren, oi the 51st
mile, where Brown's line begins, and the descents on the 53d
and 55th miles, are of about equal magnitude; neither reach to
so much as two feet ascent in eighty rods, and are not perceptible at all when thekw.ater is three feet higher than when at its
lowest stage in dry weather. In 1820 these shoals were nameless, and are so slight that some of them are now nearly oblito
erated by the accidents of dams thrown across the river for
milling purposes. Either one of the five might have been selected by the commissioners of Missouri for the proper place of
beginning with almost equal propriety. They searched the river
from the Appannoose Fall, at the 93d mile, to its mouth, in a
pirogue, before they selected their starting-point, obviously
depending on such examination for a selection of the particular
place of beginning, and not on any notorious rapid pbinted out
by public reputation. There is none such in the Des Moines
River, and therefore Brown's line cannot be upheld, nor the
claim of Missouri be supported.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

677

Missouri v. Iowa.

This court is, then, driven to' that call in the constitution of
Missouri which declares that her w:estern boundary shall correspond with the Indian boundary-line; and, treating the westem line of a hundred miles long as a unit, and then running
east from its northern terminus, it will supply the deficiency
of a call for an object that never existed. Nor has Missouri
any right to complain. She herself, for ten .years and more
after coming into the Union, recognized the Indian lined west
and north as her proper lqoundary; her counties were ztended
up to these lines before,the present controversy rose6; and so
counties in the territory north were established up ti. this
recognized line without objection on the part bf Missouri.
And when Congress ceded to Missouri the country west of
Sullivan's Iiiie, both parties to that cession acted on the assumption, that the ceded territory next the Missouri River was
blounded on the north -by a line that should be run due west
from the northwest corner of the old Osage boundary. To
ffls extent the Indian titTe was extinguished, and to no other
extent did the United States cede that country. -Noik could
this court act otherwise than to-reject. the claim of Missouri,
without -doing palpable injustice to the United States on the"
western part of the line.
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the -northern boun6ry of
Missouri is, the Osage line, as-run .by.Sullivan in 1816, from
the northwest corner made by him f'o-the Des Moines River;
and that a line extended due west from said northwest^ comer
to- the Missouri River is the pr9pg. northern bouridary on that
end of the line. - And this is the unanimous opinion of all the
judges of this court.
Deere.
On this 13th day of February, A. D. 1849, the cause of the
State ofMissouri against the State of Iowa, on itn original bill,
and also on a cros-bill of the State of Iowa against the State of
Missouri, c9nstituting part of said cause, -came on to be heard
before the honorable the judges of the Supreme Court. of :the.
United States in open court, all of the judges of said court
being present. And said cause was heard on the original bill,
and the answer thereto, and the replication to said answer;
and also on said cross-bill, and the answer thereto, and the
replication to said answer; and on the proofs in said cause,
consisting of depositions; documents, and historical evidences;
when it appeared to the court, that, in tne yeaf-' ±216, the
United States caused to be -run and marked two lines, as part
of a boundary between the United States and the Great and
Little -Osage nations of Indians, in execution of a treaty made

57*

78.

SUPREME COURT.
Missouri . .Iowa.

with said Osages in' 1808, the first line of the tw% beginning
on the eastern bank of the Missouri River, opposite the middle
of the mouth of the Kansas River, and extending north one
hundred miles, where a comer was made by John 0. Sullivan,
the surveyor and commissioner, acting on behalf of the United
States and the Osage' nations; and that from. said corner a
second line was then run and marked by said surveyor, under
said authority, which was intended to be run due east, on a
parallel of latitude, but which line, by mistake, varied abbut
two and, one-half degrees towards the north of a due east and
west line. And. it.further appeared, that the first-named line
is the one' to which the descriptive call in -the constitution of
the State of M'issouri refers as the, Indian boundary-line, and to
which the western boundary of said State was to correspond.
And it also appeared, that said two linqs had, at all times since
Missouri came into the Union as a State, been recognized by
the United States as the frue western and northern boundpries
of the State of Missouri, as called for" in 'her constitution;
and that the State of Missouri had also recognized these lines
as a part of her b undary for the first ten years of her existence, if not more ;,but that, in .the year 1837, she caused
another line to be raun, and marked as her northern boundary,
from the River Des Moines due west to the Missouri River,
lying about ten miles north of said line run by Sullivan in
1816, which line of 1837. embraced part of a territory then
governed by the United States, and which.was inhabited by
citizens of the United States, and which territory continued to
be so governed by the United States until the 29th day of
December, 1846, when the jurisdiction over the same was conferred upon the State of Iowa. It further appeared, that the
State of Missouri claims to exercise jurisdiction up to said line,
s run and marked in the year 1837, 'n an assumption that the
d$escriptive call in her constitution for a parallel of latitude
,"passing through the rapids of the River Des Moines" was
gratified by a rapid found in said riveri, at a place known as
the Great Bend, and from which said line was begun qnd extended west. And this court finds that there is no such rapid
in the River Des Moines as that called for in the constitution
of the State of Missouri ; and that she was -not justified in
causing the line run and marked in 1837 to be extended as her
northern boundary.
And the coart further finds, that the State of Iowa is estopped
from setting up claim to a line south of the old Indian boundary, known as Sullivan's line, as said State; by her cross-bill,
assumes to do; because her predecessor, the United States, by
many acts, and by uniform assumptions, up to the time when

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

679

Missouri v. Iowa.

Iowa was created, in December, 1846, redognized and adopted
Sullivan's line as the proper northern boundary of the State of
Missouri;. and that the .State of Iowa is bound by such rebognition and adoption.
And it further appeared, that that portion of territory lying
west of Sullivan's first line, and- between the same and the
Missouri River, was added to the State of Missouri by force of
aft act-of Congress of June 7th, 1836, which took effect by the
President's proclamation'of March 28th, 1837; and that a line
prolonged due west from. Sullivan's northwest corner, on a
parallel of latitude, to the middle of the Missouri River, is the
true northern boundary of the State of Missouri, on this part of
the controverted boundary.
And this court doth therefore see proper to decree, and doth
accordingly order, adjudge, and decree, that the true and proper
northern boundary-line of the State of Missouri, and the true
southern boundary of the State of Iowa, is the line run and
marked in. 1816, by John 0. Sullivan, as the Indian boundary,
from the northwest corner made by said Sullivan, extending
eastwardly, as he run and marked the said line, to the middle
of the Des Moines River; and that a line due west from said
northwest comer to th6 middle of the Missouri River is the
proper dividing-line between said States west of the aforesaid
corner; and that the States of Missouri and Iowa are bound to
conform their'jurisdictions up to said line on their respective
sides thereof, from the River Des Moines to the River Missouri.
And it is further adjudged and decreed, that the State of
Missouri be, and she is hereby, perpetually enjoined and restrained from exercising jurisdiction north of the boundary
aforesaid dividing the States; and that the State of Iowa be,
and she hereby is, also perpetually enjoined and restrained from
exercising jurisdiction south -of the dividing boundary, established by this decree.
Andit is further nrdered hat Joseph C. Brown, of the State
of Missouri, and Henry B. Hendershot, of the State of Iowa,
be, and they are hereby, appointed commissioners to find and
re-mark the line run by said Sullivan in 1816, extending eastwardly from said northwest corner to the Des Moines River;
and especially to find and establish said northwest domer, and
to mark the same as hereinafter directed; and also to run a line
due west, on a parallel of latitude, from said corner, when
found, to the Missouri River, and to mark the same as hereinafter directed.
And said commissioners are hereby commanded to plant at
said northwest corner a cast-iron pillar, four feet six inches

(60

SUPREME COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

long, and squaring twelve inches at its base, and eight inches
at its top; such pillar to be marked with the word "Missouri"
on its south side, and "Iowa " or the north, and "State Line"
on the east side which marks shall be strongly cast into-the
iron. And a similar pillar shall be by them planted in the line
near the bank of the Des Moines River, with the mark of
"State Line "1facing the west. And also a similar one, near
the east bank of the Missoiri River, shall be planted by the
said.commissioners in the said line, tihe mark of "State Line"
facing the east.
And it is further ordered, that pillars or posts, of'stone or of
cast-iron, shall te planted at every ten- miles in the line extending east, fr6m the norfhwest corner aforesaid to the Des
Moines River; and also at the end of eyery ten miles on the
due west line, extending to the Missouri River from said corner, , .These latter line-postsAo be of such -description as the
com issioners may adopt, or as .the parties to this suit, acting
jointly, may direct the commissioners to use,,excppt that said
line-posts shall be of stone or iron.
, And it is further ordered, that a duly certified copy of this.
decree shall be forwarded to the chi6f magistrateof the State
of Missouri, forthlithby the clerk of this court; and that a
similar copy shall, in like manner, be forwarded to the chief
magistrate-4f the Stat of lowal. And the' commisgioners of
this court hereby appbinted are directed to correspond with
said chief magistrates respectively, through their secretaries
of state, requesfing the co6peration and assistance of the State
authorities in the performance of the duties imposed on said
commissioners by this decree.
And it is further ordered, that the clerk of this court forward
to each of the said commissioners a copy hereof, duly authenticated, without delay.
And it is further ordered, that 'aid comm.issioners make report to this court, on or before the first day of January, next,
of their, proceedings" in the premises, with a-bill -of costs and
charges annexed.
And it is further ordered, thati should either of said commissioners die, or tefuse to act, or be' unable to perform the
duties required by this decree; the chief justice of this court
is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint other commis.sioners to supply vacancies and, if it be deemed advisable by
the chief justice, -he' may increase the commissioners, by appointment, to more than two; and he is authorized to .act- on
such information in the premises as may be satisfactory to
himself.
And should any other contingencies arise in -executing this

SANUARY TRAM, 1849.

681

Jones v. Thi United States.

decree, the chief jdstice,,in vacation, is further and generally
authorized to make- stfch orders and give such instructions as
this court could do when in session. Copies of all orders -and
instructions'and acts done in the premises by thq chief justice
shill be filed by the clerk of this court,. together with the petitions, papers, and documents on which they are founded. And
reports of the commissioners, if made in vacation, shall be filed
with the clerk also, for safe-keeping thereof, until presented in
open court for its action thereon.
'And it is further ordered and adjud.ged, that the costs of this
suit, including the original billk cross-bill, and the proceedings
thereon, and all costs incident'to establishing and marking the
dividing line, and all other costs and charges of every description, shall be paid by the States of Iowa and Missouri equally,
In the case of Missouri v. Iowa, and of Iowa v. Missouri, in the
Supreme-Cotrt of the United States:
Having received information of the death of Joseph C. Brown,
one of the commissioners appointed by the decree of the Supreme
Court in the above-mentioned cases to run and mark the boundary-line between the' States ofMiss6uri aid Iowa, I hereby, pursuant to the duty enjoined upon me by the said decree, appoint
Robert W. Wells, of the State of Missouri,, a commissioner for
the purposes aforesaid, in the place of'the said Joseph C. Brown,
deceased.
R. B. TANEY,.

:C ief Justice of Supreme Court of U. S.

Baltimore, April 6, 1849.

THoMAs AP

CATEsBY JoNEs,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
STATES.

THE

UNITED

Where a runnilg account is kept at the Post-Office Departmentbetwien thd United

States and a postmaster, in hich all postages are charged to him, and credit is
given for all payments made, this amounts to an election by the creditor to apply

the payments, as they are successively made, to the extinguishment of preceding
balmnces.
This the creditor has a right to do in the absence of instructions from the debtor.
The English deciiions and those of this court examined.
The act of Coigress of 1825 (4 Stat. at Large, 102), which exonerates the sureties if
balances are not sued for within two years after they occur, does not apply to this
case, because, by this mode of keeping the account, the balance due from the postmaster is thrown upon the last quarter.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia.
It was a suit brought by the United States upon a postmaster's bond against Walter F. Jones (the postmaster at Norfolk, in Virginia), and Thomas Ap Catesby Jones and Duncan

