JANUARY-TERM,

693

1849.

Harris v. Wall.

District of Virginia, and was argued, by counsel. 'Onconsider-.
ation whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

Bw.TAmitN#D. HARRIS,. PLAINTIFF ix ERROR, v. JAI.IS

D.

WALL,

The conditions under which a party is permitted and a magistrate authorised to
take a deposition de bene esse by the thirtieth section of the Judiciary Act are,1st. That the witness lives at a greater 'i-ance from the place of trial than
one hundred miles.
2d. Or is bound on a voyage to sea.
Od., Or is about to go out of the United States.
4th. Or out of 'such dfstrc t to a greater distance from the place of tra than
one hundred miles before the time of trial.
5th. Or is ancient or very infirm.
And to entitle himself.to read the deposition upon the trial, the party must show,-"
lst. That the witness is dead.
2d. Or gone out of the United States.
3d. Or to a greater distance than one hundred miles from the place where the
court is sitting.
4th. Or that, by ason of age, sickness, or bodilyinfirmity, he is unable to travel
and appear at'court.
The authority or jurisdiction conferred on the magistrate is special, and confined
within certain limits or conditions, and the facts calling for the exercie of it should
appear upon the face of the instrument, and not.be left to parol proof
Therefore, where the magistrate, in his notice to the opposite party, only said that
the witness was about to "depart the Statd," and in bik certficate omitted to state
the reason for taking the deposition, it was not competent for the party, at the
trial, to supply the defect by proving that the witness was about to go out of the
United States.
The service of the notice upon the opposite party should be certified by the magistrate as well as the marshAl
When coupsel have siged an agreement that a deposition may be.read in evidence
to the jury, it is too late, after its reading, to ask the court to exclude from the
consideration of the jury a part of the deposition.

Tnsocase was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
In February, 1839, the following sealed note was executed: $10,391.06.
Clinton, Miss., February,1839.
On or before the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
forty,-we or either of us promise and bind ourselves, our heirs,
&c., to pay to Benjamin D. Harris, his heirs or assigns, the sum
of ten thousand three hundred and ninety-one dollars and six
cents, with eight per cent. interest thereon from the date hereof.
Given under our hands and seals, the day and date above
,Written.
T.W.
[sEAL.]
JA.M.-WITR.
W.
[SAL.

694

SUPREME COURT.
Barris v. Wall.

Suit was brought upon this note at May term, 1940. Judgment went against Winter by default, and it is not necessary
to notice him further.
Wall put in three pleas. The first two were substantially
the same, and were, that the introduction of slaves into Mississippi, as merchandise, after the first day of May, 1833 was
prohibited by the constitution of that State, and the contract
for their purchase and sale, therefore, void. These pleas averred
that the note was given for the purchase of slaves so introduced, To these pleas the plaintiff took issue.
The third plea was, that the slaves were above the age of
fifteen years, and were introduced into the State of Mississippi
from one of 'the United States as merchandise, and sold- to
Winter by the plaintiff, without having complied with the fourth
and fifth sections of an act entitled "An act to reduce into one
the several acts concerning slaves, free negroes, and mulattoes," passed June 15th, 1822. To this plea the plaintiff demurred.
In November, 1844, the cause came on for trial, issue having
been joined upon the first two pleas, and a joinder in demurrer
having been filed as to the third. The jury found a verdict for
the defendant upon the issue upon the first two pleas, and the
record did not show any judgment of the court upon the demurrer.
In the course of the trial, the plaintiff, Harris, took four exceptions to opinions of the court.
1st. As to the admissibility in evidence of the deposition of
William S. Rayner.
2d. As to the admissibility in evidence of parts of the deposition of Benjamin G. Sims.
The 3d and 4th were, that Wall had filed a bill in chancery
against Harris, which Harris had answered: and that Wall
could noi, in a 'trial at law, introduce evidence to contradict
Harris's answer.
1st exception,- as to Rayner's deposition.
The following is the notice and certificate attached to the
deposition.
"Jackson, May 1, 1843.'
"Mr. B. D. HA&kxs, or Messrs. Rives & SHELTON, his Attorneys
at Law :-'
"Take.notice, that on Wednesday next, the third'day of May,
A. D. 1843, at the clerk's office of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, between
the hours of eight o'clock, A. M., and three o'clock, P. M., at the
town of Jackson, I shall take the deposition of William S.
Rayner, (about to depart the State,) to be read on the part of the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

695

Harris v. WaIL

defendant de bene esse in a certain action at law, depending in
said court, wherein said- Harris is plaintiff, and Winter and
Wall defendants; where you can attend. Yours, &c.
"GEo. W. MILLER, U. S. Conimissioner."
Marshal's return: -" Executed by handing Win. MK Rives a
copy between the hours of eleven, A. M., and twelve, M., May
"ANDERsor MILLER, Marshal,
1, f843.
By Z. P. WARELL, D. M."
"The deposition of William S. Rayner, taken before the undersigned commissioner of affidavits in and for the Southern Dis.trict of Mississippi, at the clerk's office of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the' Southern District of Mississippi, in the
town of Jackson, between the hours of eight o'clock, A. M., and
three, P. M., on the 3d day of May, A. D. 1843, according to a
notice by me issued and hereunto annexed; .said deposition to
be read as evidence on the part of the defendant de bene esse in
the trial of a certain.action at.law, depending and mentioned in
the Ciicuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, wherein Benjamin D. Harris is plaintiff, and
Winter and Wall defendants."
(Then follows the deposition, to which is attached the following certificate : -)
" United States of America; Southern District of Mississipfii, sct.
"I, George W. Miller, commissioner of affidavits' &c., in and
for the Southern District of Mississippi, do hereby certify that
the foregoing deposition of William S. Rayner was taken, subscribed, and sworn to before me, and by me reduced to writing
in the presence of said witness, at the time and place mentioned in the caption thereof, at the time of which- I was attended 'by James M. Wall, one of the defendants, and William
M. Rives, Esq., attorney for plaintiff, who declined putting any
interrogatories to said witness. I further certify that I am not'
a counsel for either party, or interested in the event of said
cause.
"Given under my hand and seal at Jackson, this 3d day of
May, A. D. 1843.
""Go.
W. MILLER, U. S. Comzmissioner."
The court allowed the deposition to be read in evidence, to
which the, plaihtiff excepted.
2d exception, - respecting the deposition of Sims.
This deposition had upon it the following indorsementi
viz.:-

696

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Wall.

7'When sworn to, it is agreed this deposition of B. G. Sims
may be used in the cause stated in the caption as evidence.
"RIVEs & SHELTON & TnozSrsoN,for Pzinti.
MAYEs & CLIFTO, for Defendant Wall."
After the defendant had read to the jury the deposition of
Benjamin G. Sims, which was done subject to exceptions, the
plaintiff moved the court to exclude from the jury that part of
said deposition which proved or tended to prove said plaintiff to
be a negro-trader ; but the court overruled said motion, oi the
ground that the counsel of the .plaintiff had agreed in writing
on. said deposition, that the same might be Tead in evidence.
This opinion of the court constituted the second exception.
The third and fourth exceptions 'were abandoned by the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, and need not be further noticed.
The catise was argued by Mr. Nelson, for the plaintiff in
error, and M1r. Clifton, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Nelson.
The first exception relates to the admissibility in evidence of
the deposition of William S. Rayner, and is grounded on the
insufficiency of the notice, under the act of Septemhber 24th,
1789, ยง 30.
That act authorizes the taking of the deposition of a witness
do bene esse "who shall live at a greater distance from the
place of trial than one hundred miles," or "is bound on a voyage to sea," or "is about to go out of the'United States," or
"out of such district (in which a cause may be depending) and
to a. greater distance from the place of trial than one hundred
miles," upon proper notice to the adverse party.
Ndw the' notice given in regard to this deposition does not
bring the case within .the a6t. of Congress, because; whilst it
states that the witness was about to depart the State, it does'
not allege that he was about tb go. to a greater distance than
one hundred miles from the place of trial, and. it might well
have been that the witness would leave the State, and yet
be within'reach of the process of the court.
To show the strictness with which the act of Congress in
question has been construed, reference is made/to the cases following. Bell v. Morrison et al., 1 Peters, 355; The Samuel, 1 Wheaton,- 9; The Patapsco Ins. Co: v. Southgate, 5 Peters, 604; The Thomas and Henry, 1 Brockenbrough, 373..
The gecond exception regards the admissibility in evidence
of part of the deposition of Benjamin. G. Sims, 'which the
court below suffered to go to the jury, because of the agreement of coubnel appended to it.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

697

Harris v. Wall.

-It is submitted that the court erred in this, since the true construction of that agreement is, that the deposition was to b. received in evidence only in so far as the matters contained -in it
were legally admissible in support of.the issues. joined in the
cause; and it being conceded, as indeed it can'not be denied,
that the portion of the deposition excepted to was not in itself
evidence, the agreement could not make it admissible. It is
like the case of a witness examined on the stand, whose statements improperly made in the hearing of the jury will be excluded by the court at any time during the trial.
The third and fourth exceptions, which r~late to the admissibility of the answer in chancery, are believed to be untenable.
But, independently of these exceptions, the plaintiff in error
insists that the judgment of the court below must be reversed,
because the record shows that nothing has been found to justify
that judgment.
The issues passed upon the jury, as the court will perceive,
are wholly immaterial, the existence or non-existence of the
facts involved in them in no wise affecting the rights of the
parties to the controversy.
They put the defence in the action exclusively on the ground
of the consideration -of the bill -sued upon, which was,' that it
had been given for slaves introduced by, the plaintiff -into the
State of Mississippi after the 3d day of May, 1833.
Now that iihis consideration was a good one, has been over
and over. again settled by this court. Groves'v. Slaughter,"
15 Pet. 449; Harris v. Runnels i 5 How. 135; Truly v.Wanzer et al., 5 How. 141; Sims v. Hundley, 6 How. 1.
In the last of these cases, on page 6, Chief Justice Taney
says, - "It is the settlbd law in this court, that contract6 of
this description, made at the time when these notes bear date,
were valid, and not prohibited by the constitution of Mississippi.))
This being the law of the case, it is clear that the plaintiff
below might have treated these pleas as nullities, and, as far as
they were concerned, have signed judgment for the want of
a plea.
But he inadvertently took issue upon them, and the jury de-_
cided the facts against him; and in that state of the case it is
equally clear that he might have moved the court for judgment
non obstante veredicto.
This he omitted to do, and now the inquiry is whether that
omission precludes him from availing himself of the insufficiency of the judgment in this court.
That it does not, the plaintiff in error thinks is clear Upon
principle as well as upon authority.
59
VOL. vil.

698

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. WalL

That the issue was not material, see .2 Saunders, 319

(No. 6).
That the defect is error, for which the judgment will be reversed, it is respectfully submitted, will be conclusively shown
by .the following cases. 6 Cranch, 221, 223,-225; Kirby,
139; 2 Root, 4, 204; 2 T. R. 759 ;. 2 Archbold's Practice, 758;
1 Mason, 62; 4.Howard, 131.
In the case last cited, the-question was elaborately examined,
and the principle and practice settled, under circumstances
much less strong than those which are disclosed in the record
in this case.
But it is supposed by the counsel.for .the defendant in error,
that the judgment rendered in the court below must be sustained because it is said to be a general judgment, and that the
third of .the pleas of the defendant below set up a sufficient
defence to the action.
To this it is answered, n the first place, that therewas no.
judgment rendered in the court below upon that plea, -and this
is manifest from the whole record.
The plea was in bar, and, if good, furnished a full defence to
Yet a jury was called to decide the
the plaintiff's action
issues,of fact,*wholly unnecessary to be passed upon if the plea
in question had been adjudged good.
Nor does the judgment profess to be rendered on the demurrer, - it is on the verdict.
As to the form of a judgment on demurrer, see 2 Saunders,
300 (No. 3);. 2- Archbold's. Practice, 1.;- Archbold's Forms,
306-; Tidd's Practical Forms, 200.
Even, however, if it-ere otherwise, and judgment had
been rendered on the demurrer, it could not have been sup.ported.
This plea was framed on the act of Missisgippi of the 18th of
June, 1822, 2th and- 5th sections (Howard and Hfutchinsbn's
Digest, 156).
The first-mentioned of these sections (the fourth) prescribes
the mode and manner in which slaves may be imported as
merchandise into Mississippi; the fifth, what shall be done
when such slavesare sold.
The sixth section of the same act imposes a penalty ot $100
for -every slave sold without a compliance with the provisions
of the fourth and fifth sections.
Now it is apprehended, that, upon the true construction of this
act, tile non-compliance by the eller with the provisions of the
sections mentioned does -not.invalidate a sale made }y. him.
On the contrary, the sixth section of the act,.by its terms, recognizes the validity of such sales.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

699

Harris v. Wall.

The plea does not allege any combination or collusion between the plaintiff and defendant in regard to the introduction
of the slaves sold into Mississippi. Can it, thien, be doubted,
that, under the provisions recited; the defendant acquired 'a title
to the slaves in question under his purchase? And if so, is it
not equally clear, that, though liable to the penalty denounced
by the sixth section of the act in question, the plaintiff is competent to enforce his contract against the defendant? It can
hardly be that the defendant has acquired a title to the property
purchased, and yet is not answerable for its price.
Questions of.this character have been frequently considered
and decided. See 11 Wheat. 258; 4 Burr. 2069; 6 T. R.
410 ; 3 T. R. 418 ; 1 Bos. & Pull. 295 ; 7 Taunt. 246.; A N.
Hamp. 290; 8 Wheat. 357-; 12'Peters, 70; Walker,.293;
1 Litt. 16, 19.
In any view, therefore, which may be taken of this -act of
'Mississippi, (assuming it to be in force, though some intimation
is given in the notes of the defendant's counsel, that it has
been repealed,) it is submitted, that it cannot avail to defeat the
recovery by the plaintiff of his demand, But it is insisted
that the question does not arise in this case, the record slowing
that the demurrer, at the time of the trial of the issues before
the jury, was undisposed of, and that the judgment was rendered on the verdict alone.
Mr. C. R. Clifton, for defendant in error, in reply.
1. The act of 1789, which authorizes the taking of the deposition of a witness de bene esse, nowhere requires that the
notice should show that the case was -within the Provisions of
the act, The decisions cited by the counsel for the plaintiff
only establish what has never been controverted, that the.party
who offers a deposition taken de b'ne esse must show that the
case provided for by the act existed, and that there had been a
full compliadce with its requisitions.
In this case the counsel of the opposite party attended the
examination.
When the deposition was'offered, in open court, the party offering it proved, that, at the time it was taken, the witness was
on his way to the republic of Texbs, -- that is, he was
"about to go out of the United States,"- and that he then, at
the time of offering it, resided in that republic. These facts
'having been proved by evidence aliunde, the-certificate of thd
commissioner *showedevery other fact required by the act of
Congress to render the deposition competent, and we inhist
there wa- a compliance -with all its provisions.
The only object of the notice was to secure the attendance-

700

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Wall.

of the counsel at the examination. He attended, and pleads in
abatement to the notice, that. it was insufficient, - his presence
refuting his plea.
2. The deposition of Sims ought not to have been excluded.
The issue was as to what was the consideration of tfie bond
sued on; it being averred on the one side that it was for slaves
introduced into the State of Mississippi and sold in the' year
1836, and denied on the other. The deposition contains several circumstances conducing to show the truth of this averment;
and among these is the one object6d to, - that is, that the plaintiff had carried slaves to Mississippi for sale, and- was, in fact,
engaged in the avocation of a "negro-trader."
How far the defendant would have been permitted to go in making this proof,
in opposition to the will of the plaintiff, it is not now needful
to inquire, since no such opposition was made. This fact was
proved in a deposition, which the plaintiff agreed should be
read as evidence to the, jury; and he cannot-now ask the appellate court to reverse the judgment, because the court below
,held him to his own agreement.
(The counsel then proceeded to the discussion of the point
involving the construction of the constitution of Mississippi, tnd
arising on the issues found by the jury for the defendant; but
was arrested for .the moment by the chief justice, who, after
conference with the other members of the court, said, that this
question had been repeatedly.settled by this court, and theoourt
could not consent to consider it an open que.stion, and hear it
again argued. The counsel acquiesced with manifest "reluctance, and, being asked by a member of the court if there was
any other point in the case, said :-)
There is a special plea founded upon the fourth and fift, seetions of the act of the 18th of June, 1822, which, if not repealed by the provision of the constitution of Mississippi as to the
introduction of slaves, presents a valid defence to the action.
Itis demurred to.
-In Mississippi, these sections have been considered as repealed,
upon the ground that the constitution, which is the supreme
law, prohibits .the introduction of slaves absolutely, and therefore repeals all laws permitting them to be imported upon condition.
This .court, adhering to its former decisions, cannot regard
these sections as repealed, because, if the constitution did not
proh:bit their introduction from the 1st day of May, 1833, the
law which specified the conditions -upon which they might be
imported and sold remained in full'fbrde.
The language of these sections is: -" It shall not be lawful
for any person or persons to impqrt-into this State,.from any of

'JANUARY TERM, 1849.

701

Harris v. Wall

'the United States, or the Territories thereof, as merchandise, any
slave or slaves, either, negro or mulatto, or of any other descrip-tii ;whatever, above the age of fifteen years, without having
previously obtained a certificate, signed by two respectable freeholders in the couniy of the State or Territory from whence
such slave or slaves is or are brought; which certificate shall
contain a particular description of the stature and complexion
of such slave or slaves, together with the name, age, and sex
of the same ; and; furthermore, that thd slave or slaves therein
mentioned and described have not been guilty of murder, burglary, arson, or other felony, within their knowledge or belief,
in such State or Territory; which certificate shall be signed or'
acknowledged befbre the clerk of the county of the State or
Territory where the same is given and certified by said clerk,
specifying therein that the persons whose sigliatures are afilxed
thereto are respectable freeholders of the. county and neigh.
bourhood in which they reside.
"Any person, who shall sell any slave or slaves brought into
this State as merchandise,- shall cause to be registered with 'the
register of the" Orphan's Court of the county where such slave
or slaves are, or are first sold, every certificate as aforesaid, the
seller previously swearing that he believes the-contents of such
certificate or certificates to be just and true ; which oath said
registei is hereby authorized anua required to administer; for
-which service he. shall receive the sum of one dollar for each
certificate so registered. "1 (See How. and Hutch. Digest,
156, and Hutchinson's Mississippi Code, 513.) The sixth
section of the act imposes a penalty "of$100 for every -slave
sold without- a compliance with the said fourth and fifth sections, recoverable in any court of competent jurisdiction.
The facts stated in this plea are confessed on the record.
The judgment of the. court for the defendant is general.
This court wifl inspect the entire record, and give judgment
for that party who may appear to be entitled to it; and if the
plea interpose a good defence to the action, the judgment of
the court beloW, according to familiar principles, will not be
disturbed.
The counsel on the other side assumes, that, even if this were
so, the defence disclosed by that plea is not a valid one; and
-he refers to a variety of cases for the purpose of' sustaining
that position..
The first of these is that of Armstrong v. Toler, from 11
Wheaton, which, as it is understood by me, cannot be tortured
into an authority for the plaiitiff. - On the contrary, it decides,
that, where a contract grows out of an illegal act, i.court- of
justice will not lend its aid to enforce it. The selling of a

59*

702

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Wall.

slave, without a previous compliance with the requisitions of
the law, :which could alone make such sale legal, was an illegal
act; and this, therefore, is an authority for the .defendant.
The case from 4 Burrow was an action on a bond given by the
defendant to the plaintiff, to repay to the plaintiff the one half
of a sum of money which the plaintiff had previously paid, fof
himself and the defendant, to a third party, in relation to a
transaction forbidden by act of Parliament; and it was said by
the court to be a fair and honest transaction between these two,
and not in violation of the act.
That from 6 T. R. 410, -Booth v. Hodgson, is an authority
for the defendant.
In delivering the opinion in 3 T. R. 418, Lord Kenyon
expressly declares that none of the provisions of the act were
infringed.
1 Bos. & Pull. decides, that, if the contract be stained by
any thing illegal, the plaintiff shall not be heard in a court of
law. Simpson v. Bloss, 7 Taunt. 246, holds that no action
can be founded on an illegal contract, and furnishes a test for
determining what is an illegal contract, which is decisive
against this.
rThe case from 4 N. Ramp. 290, is an express authority
for the defendant. It decideb, that, when a statute inflicts a
penalty for the doing of a particular act, that act is, by implication, prohibited and illegal. "Where an illegal contract is
made between parties who are in yari delictb, the contract is
void, and neither party can maintain any action which requires
for its support the aid of such illegal contract."
The other cases seem to me to have no very direct application to the question, and certainly furnish no support to the
idea, that a party can successfully assert a right in a cort of
justice, to which he has entitled himself by a violation of law.
Indeed, I had supposed, ifthere was. a universal and uncontroverted proposition in the common law, as it is known and
understood in Englandt and in this country, it was, that no act
done in violation of the laws of the land, or in disregard or
contravention of its principles, can be the foundation of a claim
which can be enforced at law or in equity. And this has been
the rule from Lord Holt-io the present time,\as can be shown
by an unbroken series of decisions. In truth, this principle is
much older than the common law, and was incorporated into
that system from the eivil law, whence it comes to us, clothed
with the sanction of' many centuries.
'Where the law, as in this case, declares it shall no; be lawful
to do a' particular thing, unless inder certain conditions and
limitations, no 4ction can be maintained upon a contract grow-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

703

Harris v. Wall.

ing out of the doing of that thing, unless those conditions and
limitations have been cQmplied with. To declare an act unlawful, and at the .. ame time to give a remedy to the person
guilty of dtoing it, founded on his illegal act, would be to make
the-law as a house divided against itself. The law was never
guilty of the absurdity of giving a legal action for an illegal
act.
In Bartlett v. Vinor, Oarth. 251, Chief Justice Holt says,
"Any contract made for or about any matter or thing which is
prohibited and made unlawful by any statute is a void contract,
though the statute itself doth not mention that it shall be so,
but only inflict a penalty on the defaulter, because a penalty
implies a prohibition, though there are no prohibitory words in
the statute." The same is held in Bensley v. Bignold, 5 Barn.
,& Ald. 335; Drury v. Defontaine, 1 Taunt. 136 ; 14 Mass. 322;
Ho1t's N. P. Cas. 435. This rule is now. applied, as well to
cases maza prohibita as mala in se. 2 Bos. & Pull. 374,
375; 5 Barn. & Ald. 31; 2 Wilson, 351; 17 Mass, 281.
" The policy of a penal statute may be enlarged, not for the
purpose of inflicting the penalty, but to avoid the contract."
Dwarris on Statutes, 752; Mitchell v. Smith, 1 Binney, 110 118; 4 Yeates, 34- 54; 4 Serg. & R awle, 151.
No recovery can be had for printing a newspaper, whose publisher does not first make the affidavit directed by the act,
though the act does not, in terms, avoid the. contract. Marchant v. Evans, 8 Taunt. 142; Roby v. West, 4 N. Ramp. 285.
The 17 Geo. 3, ch. 42, sec. 1, declares, all bricks made for
sale shall be 21 inches thick and 4 wide, and the second section
imposes twenty shillings for every thousand bricks so made of
less dimensions, as a penalty. Held, that bricks of less dimensions could not be recovered for, though there was nothing in
the act declaring the sale void. Law v. Hodgson, 2 Camp. 147.
And in the case of Sprergean v. McElwain, 6 Ohio, 442,
it is decided, that where the statute forbids the keeping of a
ninepin alley, under a penalty, a carpenter who builds one,
knowing the object, cannot recover the price of building.
It would he useless to, multiply authorities on this point.
The courts of England and this country, with a rare uniformity, have held that every contract made in violation of The laws
of the land, or without complying with. its provisions, or which
is made in disregard or contravention of the statute or common
law, is void, and cannot be enforced in law or in equity. I
Leigh's N. P. 6 - 13; 2 Peters, 539; 2 Carr. & Payne, 472; .4
T. R. 466; 3 ib. 454; Cowper, 191; 2 Doug. 698; 1 Maule
& Selw. 593 ; 5 Barn. & Ad. 887 ; 4 Peters, 410; 5 Johns. 320",
1 Randolph, 76; 3 ib. 214; 1 Barn. & Cres. 192; 5 ib. 887.
-

7014

SUPREME COURT.
Harris, v. Wall.

Mr.-Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the-trial of the issues of fact in this case before the Circuit Court, the defendant offered to read the deposition of William S. Rayner which had been taken de bene esse, under the
thirtieth section of the Judiciary Act. It was objected to by the
plaintiff's counsel, as not coming within the conditions prescribed by that act. The court admitted the deposition, and
sealed a bill bf exceptions, which is the foundation of the first
assignment of error.
A notice was served on the plaintiff's counsel,.signed- by the
commissioner or magistrat6, and stating the time and place at
which it was intefided to be taken, and that "I shall take the
deposition of William S. Rayner, (about to depart the State,) to
be read on the part-of the defendant, de bene esse," &c.
When the deposition was offered, the defendant proved to
the court, that "when said deposition was taken, said Rayner
was on his way to the republic of Texas, to reside there, and
that he was a citizen of, and resided in, said republic."
It has been decided by this court; in the case-of Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 351, that "the authority to take depositions in
this manner, being in derogation of the rules of common law,
has always been construed strictly, and therefore it is necessary to establish that all the requisitions. of the law have been
complied with before such testimony is admissible."
The conditions under which a party"is permitted, and a magistrate authorized, to take depositions de bene esse, under this
act, are, - 1st, that the witness lives at a greater distance.from
the, place of trial than one hundred miles; 2d, or is bound on
a voyage to sea; 3d, or is about to go out of the United States;
4th; or out of such district to a greater distance from the place
of trial than one hundred miles, before the time of trial; 5th,
or is ancient or very infirm.
The magistrate is required also to deliver to the-court,'togeth.
er with the depositions -so taken, a certificdte of the reasons of
their being takeh,'and of the notice,-if any, given to the opposite party. In order to entitle the party to read such depositions
when taken and certified in due form of law, he must show,
that, at the time of the trial, - 1st, either the witness is dead;
2d, or gone out of the United States,; 3d, or to a greater distance than one hundred miles from the place where the court
is sitting; 4th, or that, by reason of age, sickness, or bodily infirmity, he is unable t6 travel and appear at court. .
Now, assuming that the defendant has brought himself within the conditions which would enable him to read a deposition
regularly taken and cdrtified according to the requisitigns of
this act, the question is, whether this, deposition was so taken
and certified.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

705

Harris v. Wall.

The authority or jurisdiction conferred on the magistrate by
this act is special, and confined within certain limits or conditions, and the facts calling for the exercise of it shoiuld appear
upon the face of the instrument, and not be left to parol proof.
The act of Congress rquires them to be certified by the magistrate. It would be reasonable, also, where notice is required
to be given to the opposite party, that such notice should show
on its face that the contingency has happened wlch confers
jurisdiction on the magistrate, and gives a right to the party to
have the deposition taken, so that the party on whom the notice is served may be able to judge whether it is necessary or
proper that he should attend. The notice in this case states
only that the witifess is "about to depart the State," not that
he is bound on a voyage to sea, or about to go outt of the
United States, or a hundred miles from the place of trial.
This notice is appended or anne:ked to the deposition, with a
return of service by 4he marshal; but the service is not cer-tified by the magistfate, nor does he certify, as required by
the act, " the. reasons " for taking the deposition. The presence of the pla'intiffs attorney, who decliWed to take any part
in the proceedings, cannot affect the case, or amount to a
waiver of any objection to the want of authority apparent
on the face of this certificate.
We are of opinion,.- herefore, that the court erred in admit-.
ting
thisthird
deposition to be'read to the jury.
The
and fourth exceptions have been abandoned on
the argument, and the second does not appear to be well taken.
When parties, with a full-knowvledge of the contents of a deposition, agree that it shall be read, to the jury on the tfi'al of the
cause, they have no right to complain of the court for not excluding from the consideration of the jury the very matter
which they themselves have agreed should be read to them.
The record in this case does not show that any judgment
was given by the court below 'on the demurrer. If a defendant plead several pleas in bar, either of which is a defence to
the whole action, and one be found in his-favor, he is entitl&
to judgment. .For this reason the parties may have considered
it unnecessary to pray the judgment of the court on the plea
demurred to, as the issues on the other pleas had been found
in favor of the defendant, and judgment. rendered thereon for
him. And the plaintiff here, wh'. was also plaintiff below,
cannot assign error on an issue7 in which there was no judgment
of the court below. The -validityof the defence set up in that
plea is consequently not before this court, and cannot be noticed.
But as the trial of these issues below took place before the decision in this court of the cases of Harris v. Runnels, -5How.

'706

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Je-mison.

135, and Sims v. Htindley, 6 How. 1; and as these cases show
that -the issues of fact are immaterial, though found for the defendant, the' defence will probably turn wholly on the decision
of the point raised by the demurrer.
-'The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed.
Order
This cause came on to be fieard on the transcript of the record from the. Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of.'Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to -the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

Tnom.As 'TowNss-,D, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT JEmISON.
lltho'ugh, as a,general rule, all issues, whether of law or fact, ought to be disposed
of in some way by the court below, yet; under the particular circumstances of
this case, which presented the appearance upon the record of a demurrer which
had not been disposed of, this court will presume that the demurrer, had been
withdrawn or overruled.
The thirty-second section of the. JudiciaryAct (1 Stat, atLarge, 91) forbids a reversal
of the judgment on account of the omission of the 'clerk to record such waiver
or overruling.

The statutes of jeofails examined.
Where there are special and general counts in a declaration, and @ demurrer is filed
which affects only the special counts,.and the party goes to trial upon the general
issue plea to the general counts, a verdict and judgment so obtained will not be
set asme necause the demurrer was undisposed of. A statute of Mississippi,where
the cause was triea, allows one good count to sustain a judgment.

Where the plea was bad, and the demurrer was to a replication to this bad plea, the
first fault in pleading was cominitted by the defendant, and judgment against him

was properly given.

THIS case -was brought up, by writ of error, from: the District Court ofthe United States for the Northern District of
Mississippi.
It was a suit brought by Jemison against Townsend, to recover a sum of money which Jemison had paid for him to the
Mississippi Union Bank, at Macon. The consideration appears
to have been," that Townsend should take up a note at the
CommercialBank of Columbus, for whief he, Townsend,. was
bound for one John B. Jones; but in what manner Townsend's taking up the latter note would benefit Jemison did not
appear from any part of the record.

