738

SUPREME COURT.
Smith v. Hunter et al.

tion in this cause, be, and the same is .hereby, reversed for the
want of jurisdiction in that 6ourt-; and that this appeal be, and
the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said'Cirzuit Court, with directions to proceed therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

HEZEKIAH SMITH, PLAINTIFF IN ERRoij, v. WILLIAM HUNTER, TREASuRER OF BUTLER COUNTY,, JAMES B. CAMERON, AUDITOR OF BUTL.ER
COUNTY, AND THE PRESIDENT
-

AND TRUsTEES

OF THE MIAMI UNI-

VERSITY.

Where a complainant alleged that a school tax, which wag l6vied upon his land, was
contrary to the spirit and meaning of a law of the State of Ohio which exempted
his property from all State taxes, and conflicted also with the terms and conditions of the leases by which he held his land, and the State court dismissed the bill,
this decision of the 8tate court cannot be reviewed by this court by a writ of error
issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act. "
The rules which regulate cases brought up to this court under that section again examined and affirmed.

Tilis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Ohio,
by a, writ of error issued under the twenty-ffth section of the
Judiciary Act.
The facts were these: By the fourth section of the act of Congress of the 3d of March,
1803, to enable the State of Ohio to form a State constitution,
(2 Statutes at Large, 226,) a township of land, to be laid off in
the Cincinnati land district, was- granted to the State of Ohio
for the purpose of establishing an .academy.
On the 17th of February, 1809, the legislature of the State
of Ohio passed an act: entitled "An act to establish the Miami
Uiniversity." (Pamphlet Acts of 1809, page. 184.)
That act incorporated the university, provided for its support,
government-, &c. Section tenth vested the above-mentioned
township in the corporation, for the use and support of the university, and authorized the corporation to divide the township
into lots, and lease them out for the term of ninety-nine years, renewable for ever, subject to a valuation every fifteen years. The
thirteenth section exempts thetownship from all State taxes. It
reads in these words: -" That the lands appropriated and vested in the corporation, with the buildings which may be erected
thereQn for the accommodation of the president, professors,. and
other officers, students, and servants of the university, and any
buildings appertaining thereto, and also the dwelling-house and
other buildings which may be built and erected on the lands,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

739

Smith v. Hunter et al.

shall be exempt from all State taxes." Under this act the university lands were divided into lots and leased out, the plaintiff
in error being the lessee of a part of them.
On the 16th of March, 1839, the legislature of Ohio passed
an act entitled "An act providing for the levying of a sdhool.
tax in Oxford township, in Butler county." , Local Laws of
Ohio, p. 235 of Pamphlet Acts.
The township here named is the university township. The
first section of the act directs the county commissioners of that
county to appoint appiaisers in the township of Oxford "1to appraise the lands held under permanent leases in said township
at their true value in money, considered in their natural state,"
taking into view the rent encumbrance upon the same, payable
to the university.
The second section of the act is in these words:- " Said
commissioners shall, in addition to the levying of a tax on personal property in said township, authorize the levying of a
school tax annully upon the ad valornem amount of appraisement in said township, the property- of blacks and mulattoes excepted, not exceeding one mill on the dollar, which assessment
shall be made by the county auditor, and collected by the
county treasurer, in the same manner as other county, town-*
ship, or State taxes are levied and collected."
The third section provides, that "the taxes so levied and collected under the provisions of this act shall be appropriated exclusively for the support of common schools in the respective
districts in the township of Oxford-; and in the disbursement
of the same, the provisions of the act entitled ' An act for the
support and better regulation of common schools, and to create
permanehtly the office of superintendent,' passed March 7th,
1838, shall be conformed to, at least so far as it is practicable to
carry out the objects of this act, having in view the support of
common schools in the said township of Oxford."
Under this last-named act, a tax for the support of common
Echools in'Butler township was levied on the university lands,
and, among others, on the lands of the plaintiff in error.
Whereupon he filed his bill in charicery in the Court of Common Pleas for said county of Butler, setting out in substance
the facts as above stated, and praying that the treasurer, aid
auditor of the county might be-enjoined from -collecting said
tax, on-the ground that it was imposed in contravention of.the
terms of his lease, and of the act of the 17th of February, 1809,
to establish the Miami University.
The defendants demurred to this bill, and on the hearing the
demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed.. From this decree of the Common Pleas the plaintiff appealed to the Supreme

740

SUPREME COURT.
Smith 'v.Hunter et aL

Court of Ohio, where, upon hearing on the demuder, the. bill
was again dismissed. From this last decree the plaintiff -sued'
out a writ of error into, this court.
It was argued by Mr.-Schenck, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Vinton, for the defendants in error..
Mr. Schenck contended that the case was drawn' into the,
jurisdiction of this court, -1st. Because it arises under a law of the United States. it
presents, in: fact, a question as to the effect and objects of a
grant of lands made in pursuance of an act of Congress for the
purposes of education, -and how far the same may be interfered
with and controlled by State legislation.
2d. Because it is claimed that the act of the legislature of
Ohio of 1889, taxing these lands, conflicts with a former act of
the legislature in 1809, exempting them from taxation, and,
being in violation of the rights of lessees (of whom the complainant is one) under that act of 1809, is-a law impairing, the
obligatioh of contracts.
Mr. Vinton denied the jurisdiction of this- court, and contended also that State taxes in Ohio were clekd. distinguished
from county and road and school and bridge ta s,whidh were
Fen'irelylocal, and not included in the exemption from State taxes.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion f the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Con of Ohio; prosecuted under the twenty-fifth' section of the act 'to establish'the
judicial courts of the United States, and arises out of the following facts and proceedings.
By the fourth section of an act of Congress of the 3d of
March, 1803, (2 Statutes at Large, 226,) a township of land in
the Cincinnati land district was granted .to-the State of Ohio
for the'purpose of establishing a university.
04 the 17th of February, 1809, the legislature of 'Ohio, by
law, incorporated and established the Miami University, and, by
the tenth section of this law, vested the township above mentioned in the corporation, for the support of the university, and
authorized it to 'divide. the township'into lots, and to make
leases of these lots for the term of ninety-nine years, renewable
for ever, but subject to. a valuation at intervals of fifteen years.
The thirteenth section of the law contains the following provision: - "That the lands appropriated and vested in the corporation, with the buildings which may be erected thereon for
the accommodation of the president, professors, and other offiers,-students, and servants of the university, and any buildings

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

741

Smith v. Huntei et aL

appertaining thdreto, and also the dwelling-house and other
buildings which may be built and erected on. the lands, shall be
exempt from all State taxes." Under the authority of this law
of Ohio, the lands vested in the university were divided into
lots and leased out, and the. plaintiff in error became the lessee
of a part of them. On the 16th of March, 1839, the legitlature
6f Ohio passed an act entitled -An act providing, for the. levying of a school tax in Oxford township, in Butler county." The
township of Oxford is the same which was vested in the
Miami University by the law of the' 17th of February, 1809.
The first 'section of the law of 1839 provided that the county
commissioners of Butler county should appoint one or more
appraisers in the township of Oxford, whose duty it should be
to appraise the lands held under permanent leases in said township at their true v~lue in money, considered in their natural
state, and that, in rhaking such appraisement, they should take
into view the rent encumbrance upon the same annually or
otherwise payable to the Miami University by reason of the
condition. of the leases under which such lands are holden.
The third section of the act of 1839 appropriates the taxes thereby ordered to be assessed and levied on the lands in Butler
county exclusively to the support of the cojumon schools in the
school districts of the township of Oxford, and directs the disbursement of the amount of these taxes in conformity with'the
provisions of a statute of Ohio for the regulation of common
schools, passed on the, 7th of March, 1838. The lease under
which'the plaintiff in error claims sets out specially the extent
of his tenure, with the privilege of perpetual renewal,; and, in
-general terms, refers to all the privileges and .immunities granted
to the lessees of the university by the several acts and laws of the
State. In consequence of a demand made by the auditor and
treasurer of Oxford township for the taxes assessed on the lands
held by the plaintiff for the use of the commdn schools of that
township, the plaintiffifiled his bill in the Court of Common
.Pleas of Butler county,, making defendants thereto the auditor
and treasurer of the township and the trustees of the Miatni
University, and praying that-the auditor and treasurer and their
successors might be perpetually enjoined from collecting of the
plaintiff any taxes whatsoever enacted by the State and-imposed
on the lands held by him under leases from the president and
directors of the Miami University. The plaintiff claims an exemption from the payment of all taxes, niider the- provision of
the tenth section of the act of 1809, and insists that the law of
1839 is inconsistent with the privilege or exemption secured to
him by the former law. The bill wa. demurred to by the
defendants; the demurrer was sustained by the Court of Com-

742

SUPREME COURT.
Smith v. Hunter et aL

mon Pleas, and: the bill directed to be dismissed' and upon an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, the decree of the
Court of Common Pleas was in all respects affirmed.
In considering -this case, a difficulty meets us at the threshold inthe question of jurisdiction. This being neither an
appeal from, nor writ-of error to, a court of the United States, but
a case brought hither under the twenty-fifth section of the' Judiciary Act, it must fall within some of the categories prescribed
by that sectibh,-in order to justify the cognizance of it by this
court; and this must appear too in the modes, and to the extent, which-this court-has repeatedly and distinctly announced.
It is contended, in the argument on behalf of the plaintiff in
error, that the act of the'legislature of Ohio, of March 6th,.
1839, is an invasion of his right to exemption from taxes; or
rather from all taxation, alleged to have been conferred by the
act of 1809, and therefore an infringement of that portion of the
tenth section of the first article of the.Constitution of the United
States, which prohibits the passing of -laws by the States impairing the obligation of contracts. On the other band, it is"
insisted for-the defendants, that the phrase "State taxesi" contained in the law of 1809, was and is applicable 'to a wellknown distinction between taxes for general revenue, and payable as a portion of the public fisc, and county or township
dues levied by ldcal power, and applicable only to purposes
which were local and limited in' their character.., The latter
would seem to be the interpretation adopted by the courts of
Ohio'of the two laws in question; they must have been regarded as reconcilable and consistent with each 'other, to justify
the dismission of plaintiff's bill on .the merits. But whether
these statutes of Ohio be reconcilable with each other, or in
conflict with themselves and with the above-cited article of
the Constitution, is a matter into which, according to the
record before us, we do not think it material to inquire. The
pleadings in this cause nowhere allege -any right, title, or
interest derived from or under any authority of the United
States, nor the violation of any right, title, or interest o derived, nor any violation of the Constitution, nor of any right.
.guarantied thereby. Nothing of this kind is apparent either
'on the face of the decree of the Court of Common 'Pleas, or of
that of.the Supreme Court. of Ohio.. The course of decision
here, as to the requisites apparent upon the record to invest
this court with jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act, would seem too cleaf and too well established, to
be misunderstood; but whether' understood or regarded byparties or by counsel, this court cannot permit the disturbance
of a settled rle of' practice, whereby .great confusion and in-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

743

Smith v. Hunter et al.

convenience would of necessity be induced. Some of the
positions ruled by this court, upon the subject of jurisdiction,
under the twenty-fifth section, will be here adverted to. In Montgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129, it is said that "the Supreme Courthas no jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act, unless the right, title, privilege, or exemption under a statute or 'commission of the United States be
specially set yp, by the party claiming it, in the State court,
and the decision be against the same."
In the case.,.of
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 392, the court, after reviewing
all the previous cases touching the question of jurisdiction under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, some of which
cases were calculated to shed doubt upon the meaning of the
statute, lays down these clear and well-defined propositions.
That to give this court jurisdiction, two things should have
occurred and be apparent on the record, -first, that some one
of the questions- stated in the section did arise in the court
below-; and secondly, that a decision was actuallypmade thereon
by the same court, in the manner, required by the -section.
That if both these do not appear on the record, the appellate
-jurisdiction fails. It is not sufficient to show that such a question 'might have occurred, or such a decision 2might have, been.
made in the court below. It must be demonstrable, that they
did exist, and were decided. In the case of McKinney v. Carroll, 12 Peters, 66, it is said, two things must be apparent on
the record, to give the Supreme Court jurisdictioh under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act ;--.first, that some
one of the questions stated in that section did arise in.
the State
court; and secondly, that a decision was actually made thereon
in the manner required by the section.
The same positions are ruled, almost in the identical words,
in the cases of Coons v. Gallaher, 15 Peters, 18, and of Fulton v. McAffee, 16 Peters, 149.
In the last case which will be here cited, that of Armstrong
v. The treasurer of Athens County, reported.in 16 Peterp, 281,
this subject of jurisdiction.under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act appears to have been still more elaborately
-treated than it had been previously dohe, and the law concerniig it propounded in a series of six plain propositions; they are
are as follow. That to give jurisdiction, it must appear on the
record itself that the ease is one embraced by the section, -first,
either by express averment or by necessary intendment in the
pleadings in the case; secondly, by directions given by the
court, and stated in the exceptions; or, thirdly, when the proceedings are according to the laws of Louisiana, by the statement of the facts, and of the decision as is usually made in

744

SUPREME COURT.
Smith V. Hunter dt al.

such cases by the -court; fourthly, it must be entered on the
record of the proceedings of the appeUatel
Court, in cases where
the record shows that such a pcint may have arisen and may
have been decided, that it was a- fact raised and decided, and
,this entry must appear to have been made by order of the court'.
or by the presiding judge by order of the. court, and 'certified
by the -clerk as.part of the record in the-State °court ; or, fifthly,
in proceedings in equity, it may be stated ii 'the body of the
final decree of the State court; or, sixthly, it must appear, from
* the record, that the question was nece.ssarily involved in the
decision, and that the. State" court could, not 4ve given the
judgment or decree without deciding it.
Thus, with respect to, the construction proper to be given to
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act,. and with respect
also. to the.modes of presenting upon the records from the :State
courts the questions arising under that section, which can properly.draw.the decisions of those courts within the 6ognizance of
this tribunal,'we find a series of adjudications embiracing and setiling the law as to both these subjects. .The rules and principles settled by those. adjudications. are entirely approved, and
could not be disturbed without much inconvenience and mis:
'hief. -Recurring tothe record of the case under consideration,
and regarding it as deficient in all the requisites to give jurisdiction, according to the express demands of the authorities
cited, we therefore adjudge .and order, ,that the writ of error in
this'case be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the .transcript of the
record -,of the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, and. it appearing
to the- court here; from an inspection of the .transcript bf the
record, that there is paothing upon its face to -give this court
jursdiction in the case, it is thereupon now here" ordered and
adjudged by this court, that this cause be, and the same *is
heiebyi:ismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

