JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

89

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

CHARLES WILKES, PLAINTIFF IN ERRO,

.- SANUEL DNsdAN.

In a suit brought by a marine against the commanding officer of a squadron, in
which the marine alleged that he was illegally detained on board after the expiration of his term of enlistment, it was competent for the defendant to give in evidence a letter which he had written to the Secretary of the Navy, relating to the
circumstances of the enlistment.
An acquittal of the commandihg officer by a court-martial, when tried for te same
acts by order of .the government, is not admissible evidence in a suit by an
individual.
The act of Congress passed on the 2d of March, "1837, (5 Stat. at Large, 153,)
authorized a reEnlistment of marines to serve during the cuise then about to
take place, they being included in the denomination of "persons eilisted for the
navy." Prior laws recognize marines as a part of the navy.
Under the same act, the commander of tie squadron had-power to detain a marine
after the term of his, enlistment expired, if, in the opinion of the commander,.
public interest required it.
At the time of enlistment, the marine corps'being subject to such laws and regulations as might, at any time, be established for tbe'better government of the navy,
it was a part of the contract of enlistment that the party'should obey them, whenever passed. It Was, therefore, no objection to such laws, that they were passed
after his entering the service.
u
t
t
By.the third article for the government of the navy, the commander'is iuthorized to
cause twelve lashes to be inflicted, for scandalous conduct, without a court-martial. Every successive disobedience of orders is a fresh offence, and subject to
additional punishment.
The commander had not only a right to cause corporal punishment to be inflicted,
but to resort to any reasonable measurds necssary to insure submission. He
had, therefore, a right to imprison the refractory party on shore, if done without
malice.
The commander was acting as a public officer, invested with certain discretionarypowers, and cannot be made answerable for any injury, when acting within the
scope of his authority, and not influenced by malice, 'corruption, or-cruelty. His
position is quasi judicial.
Hence, the burden of proof that the officer exceeded his powers is upon the paity
complaining; the rule of law being, that the acts of a public officer, on public
matters, within his jurisdiction and where he has a discretion, are to be presumed
legal till ihown by others to be unjustifiable.
It is not enough to show that he committed an error in judgment, but it must have
been a malicious and wilful error.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from 'the Circuit Court of. the United States for Washington county in
the District of Columbia.
It was an action of trespass vi et armis, for assault and battery and false imprisonmeni, brought, in the Circuit Court, by
Dinsman, a marine in the service of the United States, who
served in the Exploring Expedition, which was commanded
by Wilkes.
The facts were these.
On the 14th of May, 1836, Congress passed an act (5 Stat.
at Large, 23), authorizing the President to send out a surveying
and exploring expedition to the Pacific Ocean and South Seas,
and appropriating $ 150,000 for the object.
On -the 21st of November,, 1836, Dinsman enlisted in the
marine corps of the United States for four years.
8*

90

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

On the 2d of March, 1837, Congress passed an ect (5 Stat.
at Large, 153), entitled, "An act to provide for the enlistment
of boys for the naval service, and to extend the term of the
enlistment of seamen." The second section was as follows,
viz. :"That when the time of service of any person enlisted for
the navy shall expire while he is on board any of the public
'vessels of the United States employed on foreign, service, it
shall be the duty of the commanding.-officer of the fleet, squadron, or vessel in which such person may be to send him to
the United States in some public or other vessel, unless his
detention shall be essential to the public interests, in which
case the said officer may detain him until the vessel in which
he shall be serving shall return to the United States; and it
shall be the duty of said officer immediately to make report
to the Navy Department of such detention', and the causes
thereof."
In October, 1837, Thomas Ap Catesby Jones, then commanding the vessels which were preparing to sail on the' eipediti6n, issued a general oider, proposing to give three months'
pay as bounty, -and forty-eight hours of liberty on shore, to all
the petty officers, seamen, and marines who should- regnter
for three years from the first of the ensuing November.
.In ,the same month, viz. October, 1837, a contract was made
between Jones and the non-commissioned officers and privatesof marines, which was as follows :
"We, the subscriber§, non-commissioned officers and privates
of marines, do, and each of us doth, hereby agree to and with
Thomas Ap Catesby Jones, captain of the United States navy,.
in manner and form Jblowing, that. is to say: In the first
place, we do hereby agree, for the consideration, hereinafter
,mentioned, to' enter into the South Sea surveying and exploring service of the United States, and in due and seasonable
time to repair on board such armed vessel or vessels as may be.
ordered on that service; and to the utmost of our power and
*ability, respectively, to discharge our several services or de ties,
and in every thing to be conformable and, obedient to the several requirings and lawful commands of the naval officers who
may, from time to time, be placed over us.
" Secondly. We do also oblige and subject ourselves to
serve during the term of the cruise; and'we do severally
oblige ourselves, by these articles, to comply with, and be sub-.
ject to, such rules and discipline of, the navy of the, United
States as are, or that may be, established by the Congress of
the United States,

9

JANUARY TERM, -1849.
"Wilkes v. Dinsman.

" Thirdly. The said Thomas Ap Catesby Jones, for and-in
behalf of th.e United States,- doth hereby covenant and 'agree
to and with the said non-commissioned officers and privates
of the marines,. who have hereunto signed their names, and
each of them, that they shall be paid for such services the
amoiint per month which, in the column hereunto annexed, is
set opposite to each of their names, respectively; and likewise
to advance to each and every of them three months' bounty,
the receipt whereof they do hereby acknowledge; and that
they shall be punctually discharged at the expiration of the
term of their enlistment, or as soon thereafter as each vessel of
the expedition shall return to a port of safety in the United
States.
Name.

Philip B~ash
Samuel Dinsman

Or&&e

Private
"

Per

month

Signatume.

his

$7
7

Philip H Baa.
mark.

his

Samuel H Dinsman

mark.

Wtes

James Edelin.
James Edelin.

On the 25th of October, 1837, a part of the bounty was
paid, amounting to $15, and'soon afterwaids the remaining
$ 6, making together three months' pay.
On the 20th of April, 1838, Iieut. Com. Charles Wilkes was
appointed to the command of the squadron.
On the 2d of August, 1838, A. 0. Dayton, the Fourth
Auditor of the Treasury Department, wrote letters to the pursers of the vessels, directing them to charge the marines with
the amount of bounty which had been paid to them, alleging
that it was prohibited by law..
In the course of the month of August, 1838, the expedition
sailed.
On the 1st of September, 1838, Captain Wilkes addressed a
letter to the Secretary of the Navy,.expressing surprise that the
pursers had been directed by the Fourth Auditor, to charge the
mar s with the amount paid to them as bounty, and informing the Secretary that he had ordered the pursers not to do
so. With this letter were sent some other papers, illustrative
of the transaction. The pursers obeyed the order of Captain
Wilkes.
In the months of November and December, 1840, the transactions occurred, which are set forth with great particularity in
the bills -of exceptions.
On the 24th of November, 1842, (the squadron having
returned home,) Dinsman brought this action against Wilkes.

SUPREME

92

COURT.

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

In the mean time, however, a court-martial had been held
upon Wilkes, one 6fPthe charges before which was "cruelty
and oppression," founded upon the same occurrences which are
set forth in the bills of exceptions., The finding of the court
was, that the accused was "not guilty.",
In March; 1845, the cause came on for trial before the Circuit Court, the.counsel on both sides having previously agreed
that the defendant might give the special matter in evidence as
though it was fully pleaded. The jury found a verdict of
guilty, and assessed the damages of the plaintiff at five hundred
dollars.
The following bills of exceptions were taken in the progress
of the trial: Plaintiff's 1st Bill of Exceptions.
SAMUEL

DINSMAN V.

CHARLrS WILKES.

At the trial of this case, the plaintiff, to support the issues
on his part joined, read in evidence, to have the same effect,
by consent of parties, as if the original enlistment of the said
plaintiff were produced, the certificate of Major Parke G.
Howle, adjutant of the marine corps of the United States;
and also read in evidence, for the purpose of showing thd forms
and mode of such enlistment, without objection, certain blank
forms, used and adopted in all regular enlistments or re6nlistments into said marine corps. And said Howle testified, he
being examined as a witness, that, by the rules and regulatibns
of said corps, the said forms of said enlistment were required
to be indorsed by the, recruiting officer, for the purpose of
identifying the officer by whom such enlistment was made,
and that such enlistment was regularly made.
The said plaintiff then gave evidence, further tending to
prove, that he embarked, under orders as a private in said
marine corps, in the United States Exploring Expedition,,
which sailed from the United States .on or about the 18th day
of August, A. D. 1838, under the command of the defendant,
who was a lieutenant in the navy of the United States; that
afterwards, while the United States ship Vincennes, one of the
vessels of the said expedition, was at the island of Oahu, one
of the Sandwich Islands, in the Pacific Ocean, (from which
American vessels frequently sailed to the United States,) the
term of four years, for which the said plaintiff had enlisted as
aforesaid, expired' and was fully ended; and the said plaintiff,
then and there, to wit, on the 16th day of November, A. D.
1840, on board said ship, claimed of the defendant his discharge
from the service of the United States, and refused to perform
the duties required of him by the defendant, (still command-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

93

Wilkes v. Diusman.

ing said expedition and said ship,) and his subordinate officers;
whereupon the defendant, then and there, committed the trespasses, as alleged in the declaration in this case on the part of
the said plaintiff; and afterwards the said expedition and the
said ship sailed from the said island, carrying said plaintiff on
board of said ship, commanded by the said defendant in person; and that, while the said plaintiff was on board of said ship,
as last aforesaid, he ivas repeatedly flogged and put in irons, by
order of said defendant, for refusing to perform the duties of a
marine on board of said ship, required of him by order of said
defendant; and the said plaintiff was detained on board said
ship, or" some other vessel of said expedition, continually, by
order of said defendant, and against his consent, until the
return of said ship or other vessel to the United States, about
the 15th of June, A. D. 1842, although the said ship touched
at various, foreign ports b6fore her said retprn to the United
States, and after the term for which said plaintiff had enlisted,
as aforesaid, was completed and expired.
The said plaintiff then rested his case..
And thereupon the defendant offered evidence tending to
show, that, after the passage, by the Congress of. the United
States, of the act of 1836, making appropriations ior the naval
service, the President of the United States proceeded to carry
the said act into effect, and appointed Thomas Ap C. Jones, a
captain in the United States navy, to command the expedition
authorized by said act; that the vessels designed for the expedition were assembled at New York, under the command of
said Jones, and were there in the month of October, 1837, and
on the 21st day of said October the said Jones issued his general order No. 2; that the' said general order was rdad to the
ship's crew of the ship Relief, on which ship the said plaintiff
was at that time serving as a marine under his said enlistment;
that it was read by the officer then in command of said ship,
and by him placed in the "booby-hatch," a conspicuous part
of said ship, to which all the men had access, for their perusal,
and remained there during the greater part of the morning';
that the said Jones also addressed an order to the pursers of the
squ .ron, hereinafter appended; the defendant then produced
to the court the following written papers, viz.: a paper purporting to be a contract between said Jones and the plaintiff, with
other persons, and a paper purporting to be a receipt for bounty,
and then proved to the court, by the subscribing witnesses
thereto, that said papers were signed by the said plaintiff as'
they purport to be, and that b6fore signing the same the said
papers were read to said plaintiff; and that said first paper
purporting to be a contract as aforesaid, was prepared by ord

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

of said Jones, and that the subscribing witnesses thereto were
commissioned officers of the United States; and that, after the
signing of said papers, the said plaintiff received, on the 25th
of October, 1837, the sum of $ 15, and subsequently the further
sum of $6, making $21 in all,'being a sum equal to three
months' pay, and the same was paid to and received by said
plaintiff as bounty; and the defendant further offered evidence
to the court, tending to show, that from that time forth to his
return to the United States, in the said month.of June, 1842,
the said plaintiff received -from the said United States his
monthly pay of $ 7 per month, being the amount stipulated in
the said shipping articles, over and above the sum of $ 21, paid
and received as aforesaid as bounty; and he further offered
evidence to the court to show, that the said Jones resigned his
said command -before the sailing of the said expedition; and
that, on the 20th of April, 1838, it was given to the defendant
by order of the Secretary of the Navy of that date.
That said defendant sailed from the United States in the
month of August, 1838, in command of the said squadron
under the instructions of the President, which it is agreed may
be read from the printed history of the said expedition.
That, about the time of the sailing of the said expedition,
the pursers thereof received from the Fourth Auditor of theTreasury a communication, inquiring by what authority the said
bounty had been paid to the marines, of whom one was the
said plaintiff, and disallowing it in the accounts of said pursers,
and requiring them to charge the same to the men on their
pay accounts, and deduct the same therefrom, which said last
communication was reported by said purises to the. defendaat;
and thereupon the defendant issued his order of the 14th September, 1838, now read to the court, w'hich order was thereupon
obeyed by said pursers, and the said "-bounty money" never
was charged to said met..
And the said defendant then offered to read in evidence to
the jury the said written papers, so as aforesaid signed by the
plaintiff, and also the said letter of said defendant,. addressed to
the pursers as aforesaid, in connection.with each other, and
with all'the evidence hereinbefore stated; but the plaintiff, by
his counsel, objected to the admissibility of the said written
paper, purporting to be a contract or shipping articles, and
also to the admissibility of the said receipt for. bounty, and
also to the admissibility of -the said letter of the said defendant,
whether the same are offered as' independent evidence, or in
connedtion with each other, or with other evidence; but the
court overruled said objections, and suffered all of said- papers
and the said letter to be read in evidence to the jury, as com-,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

95

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

petent testimony. And the said plaintiff excepts to the opinion
of the. court, and to the admissibility of each and every of
said papers, and said letter so admitted, and claims the 'same
benefit of exception as if each of said papersiand the said letter
were separately excepted to; and this, their bill of exceptions,
is signed, sealed, and enrolled this 24th day of April, A. D.
1845.
W. CRiCn. [SEAL.]
To, this bill of exceptions were attached the following papers,
referred to in a preceding part of this statement, viz.: 1. The date of enlistment, in November, 1836.
2. A blank form of enlistment.
3. An order from Commander Thomas Ap Catesby Jones to
the pursers, directing them to pay three months' bounty.
4. The contract between Jones and the marines.
Defendant's 1st Bill of Exceptions.
On the further trial of this cause, and after all the evidence
contained in the foregoing bills of exceptions, as well thos6
taken by the plaintiff in his said' first bill, as also those taken
by defendant, and the rulings of the court therein contained,
the defendant, further to maintain the issue on his part joined,
offered to give evidence tending to show, that, after the sailing
of the said squadron under his command, to wit, in August,
1838, from the waters of the United States, and after the
receipt by the pursers of the said squadron of the said letter
of the Fourth Auditor, inquiring by what authoxity the said
pursers had paid the said bounty to the said marines, and
requiring them to charge thenr therewith,' the marines on
board his said ship murmured at the said requisition of the said
Fourth Auditor, and that said plaintiff was on board the said
ship, and so continued up to the time of the said supposed
grievances, withobt objection; and after the said supposed
grievances he continued to serve as a marine in the said
squadron, and received pay as such marine, until his arrival
in the United States, where he was discharged. And, also,
that Simeon A. Stearns was the non-commissioned officer
in command of said marines during the whole cruise, from
the time of their sailing to their arrival in the United States,there being no commissioned officer of marines attached to
the said -expedition; that lie also acted as quartermaster of
marines, and he was the only medium of communication, according to the rules and regulations of the service, between
the said marines and the said defendant, commanding as aforeAnd, thereupon, he offered further, evidence to show
said.

96

SUPREME COURT.Wilkes v. Dinsman.

that the defendant, at the time he issued to the said pursers
the said order, contained and set out in plaintiff's first bill of
exceptions, not to charge the men with the said bounty, he
communicated the said order, so issued by him as aforesaid,
to the then Secretary of the Navy, by a letter, in the words
and figures following, to wit (copied in the record), and accompanied the said offer with proof that the said letter was
received by tle said Secretary of the Navy; and also offered
to read'the said. letter, (or report in the form of a letter,) made
by the said Sergeant Simeon A. Stearns to the defendant, and
referred to in his, the 'defendant's said letter, last mentioned, to
the said Secretary of the Navy, accompanying the said offer
Witlh proof of the handwriting of said Stearns, and that he is
now (if living) out of the jurisdiction of the United States.
And the plaintiff, by his counsel, objected to the reading of
the same, or either of them, to the jury, and the said court
refused to permit the said papers, or either of them, to be read
in evidence to the jury ; and thereupon the defendant, by his
counsel, excepts to the said ruling of the said court, and prays
that this bill of exceptions may be signed, sealed, aid enrolled,
according to the statute, which is done accordingly, this 25th
day of April; 1845.
W

CRANCH. [sEAL.]

Defendant's 2d Bill of Exceptions.
And on the further trial of the said issues, the said defendant, after all the evidence contained in the foregoing bills of
exceptions, made part hereof, and the several rulings of the
court set out therein, offered in evidence the proceedings of a
court-martial, held in the city of New York, (and which it is
admitted was lawfully called and proceeded in,) for the trial of
the said defendant,- Charles Wilkes, on certain charges and
specifications prepared against him by the Executive of the
United States; and among others, upon the charge and specification hereiniifter appended; and that the said court-martial
duly proceeded to try the said Charles Wilkes on the said
charge and specification, and that, on the trial thereof, the said
Philip Baab, one of the plaintiffs in said trial, was examined as
a witness, and the judgment of the said court on the said charge
and specification was as hereinafter appended. And the said
plaintiff agreeing that the said extracts may be made from the
said record, and considered as if the whole record were herein
inserted, objects to the reading of any part of the said record as
evidence in this cause, except the statements of said plaintiff
Baab, contained in said record,' which the plaintiff's counsel
does not object to, so far as they are relevant to the issues

JANUARY TERM,

1849.

97

Wilkes v. Di.nsman.

joined ; anld the court sustains the said objection, and refuses to
permit the same to be given irrovidence ; and the said defendant, by his counsel, excepts thereto, and prays the court to sign
and seal this exception, and to cause the same to be enrolled
iccording to the statute, all which is done and ordered, this
25th day of April, 1845.
[SEAL.]
W. CI.
Specification referred to in the foregoing bili of exceptions,
to. wit: -

Charge 4th.-

Cruelty and Oppression.

Specification.
In this, that the respective terms of service of Samuel Pensyl.
Philip Baab, George Smith, and Samuel Dinsman, "private
marines," then serving on board the United States ship Vincennes, having fully expired on the 16th day of 'November,
1840, the said Wilkes did refuse to give said marines their
disch-rge, in conformity with the termq of their enlistment:
that upon said marines declining to do further duty, the said
Wilkes did cause them, on or about the 16th of November, 1840,
to be put in double irons, and shortly after, on the same day,
to besent on shore at Honolulu, and to be confined in the fort
at a place infested with vermin; that, upon the second day of
their confinement, they were separated and kept in solitary confinement; that on the 27th of November, 1840, by order of said
Wilkes, they were deprived of one half their ration, which
consisted mostly of "poe" and goat's meat; that on the 2d of
December, 1840, the said marines were taken out and carried on
boari the United States ship Vincennes, in irons, except George
Smith, who was taken on board the Peacock; that said Wilkes
asked them if they would go to duty, and upon their respectfully stating that the term of their enlistment had expired, the
said Wilkes then confined them in double irons in the brig, a
place of confinement for prisoners in said ship; that on the 4th
of December, he, .th said Wilkes, had the said Samuel Pcnsyl,
Philip Baab, and 8amuel Dinsman seized up in the gangway,
and inflicted on them one dozen. lashes each; that he againi
confined them; that on the 7th of the same month, he had
inflicted on them another dozen of lashes each; that after this
system of lashing and confinement, for the preservation of their
lives, the said marines were compelled, against the terms of
their enlistment and against their free will, to do duty in the
squadion, under the command of said Wilkes.
VOL. VII.

98

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

Judgment of Court-Martial.
Judgment of the court-rqartial on the Above specification,
referred to in defendant's second exception, to wit: The 4th charge.
That the specification of the 4th charge is not proven, and
That the accused, of 1he 4th charge, is nopt guilty.
Defendant's Statement of Evidence.
On the further trial of this cause, and after the evidence contained in the aforegoing bills of exceptions on the part of
plaintiff and defendant, and made part hereof, the defendant
further gaye evidence to show that the said squadron, under the
command of the said defendant, continied on the said cruise,
and proceeded to the great southern seas, and explored and
surveyed the Antayctic region as far as it was possible, and
in that service the said ship Vincennes received extensive
'and serious injury; that, proceeding on her said cruise, the
said ship Vincennes, in the month of September, 1840, arrived
in the port of Honolulu, in the island of Oahu, one of the Sandwich Islands, in the Pacific Ocean, and there came to anchor in
the inner harbour, and close to the shore, and proceeded to reI~t
and repair; that it was necessary to the safety of the ship,
while undergoing these repairs, to be thts close to the shore,
and in. the inner harbour, and it would have been unsafe, if not
entirely impracticable, to have made them elsewhere; that
she had then made a long voyage, and been constantly. at sea
for a long period of time, during whicl her foremast had received such injuries that it was found necessary to take it out ;
her seams were open, and the whole hull required repairing,
to be recaulked and painted; her hold had to be broken up,
and her stowage overhauled; the water-casks were taken out,
.the sails taken off, and the ship almost stripped and dismantled;
that about this time the period of service of some of the seamen who had not shipped for the whole cruise was about to
expire, and the defendant, anxious to retain them in the service, addressed the ship's crew, and endeavoured to prevail on
each of the seamen whose term of service was about to expire
to reship, and, as an inducement to them, offered to give them
liberty on shore; and as a reward to all those who had served
so long and faithfully, and who were yet bound to continue
on the cruise, in the exploration and survey2.of the Northern
Pacific, he offered the same favor to them; leave was granted
to all, and after their leave had expired, they set about overhauling and repairing the ship; while this work was going on,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

the natives, many of whom live almost in the water, were
exceedingly troublesome, and surrounded the ship continually,
and thus kept up a communication with the men on duty;
that soon after the arrival of the said ship at said port, the
officers charged with the exploration and survey, and with
other scientific duties, went on shore, taking with them their
instruments, and such men as were necessary to enable them
to perform their duties; the defendant himself being also
engaged at the observatory, on shore, pursuing his duty, aided
by such officers and men as were necessary, yet keeping within
sight of the ship, having a constant communication with her,,
and going on board as often as -was found necessary, and
throughout retaining the command; that the general charge of
the ship was left to the first lieutenant, who, it is admitted,
was a competent, faithful, intelligent, and vigilant officer,
aided from day to day by sucb officers as could be spared from
the discharge of other duties'pertaining to the expedition; that
the general object of the expedition was a peaceful voyage, to
explore and survey coasts, seas, and islands, and to make such
investigations as might be found practicable in aid of science;
and these general objects being held, the primary purpose,
for the most part, the detail of thk-shiD's service and duty was
made subordinate to them, and thus nore of the officers and
men were for the time withdrawn from the immediate duties
of the ship than otherwise would have been , that under these
circumstances, while lying in tihe said port, the marines on
board being employed, among other duties, in keeping guard
over such men as were from time, to time imprisoned in the
ship, and before the happening of the events complained of in
the declaration, on one occasion, a man confined in double
irons, under charge of the marines, was during the night permitted to escape, having first managed to get his irons off; it
being the duty of the sentinel to be close to and keep constantguard over him, and, Lhe sentinels or guards being changed
every two h 9 urs, it was found impossible to discover during
whose watch the escape had been made; on another occasion,
a man thus imprisoned was, against the rules, &c., of the ship,
furnished with liquor, and, while under guard, permitted to get
drunk; on another occasion, a man thus imprisoned under
guard of the marines was permitted to make his escape, and it
thus became evident to the defendant that there was among
the marines on board great relaxation' of vigilance and neglect
of duty ; and on the 16th of November, 1840, Baab and two
other marine., separately and collectively, the defendant then
being'tngaged in duty on shore, and the first lieutenant having
charge of the ship, refused any longer to do duty as such

100

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

marines, pretending their term of service was up, and saying
they wished to be sent home; that the first lieutenant immediately reported these facts to the defendant, who came
on board and summoned the said Baab, and the other two
marines, before him, and. inquired of them if they still refused to do duty; they replied, as they had before to the first
lieutenant, and did refuse; thereupon the defendant ordered
them into custody, and directed that they should be sent- on
shore, and imprisoned in the fort on the island; that, a few
days afterwards, Dinsm n in like manner refused to do duty,
and was sent to the said fort. The defendant then offered
the evidence of four officers of the said ship, to show that
it would have 'been unsafe, if not- impracticable, in the then
condition of the said ship, to have confined the said plaintiff on board; that the fort on the said island, in which the
plaintiff*was confined,, was used as. a place of confinement
for the seamen of merchant-vessels lying in the said port; and
that seamen who had been confined therein were enlisted in
said port, and brought from said fort into the said ship Vincennes; that the governor professed Christianity, spoke English, and resided within the said fort, where he was visited
from time to time by various officers of- the said ship; that the
prison of the said fort is nothing more than the houses erected
for the military, and is composed of small huts or houses built
in the native fashion, having the back toward the wall of the
fort, with the front looking out upon an open space, in front
also of the governor's house; that there are no doors to close
these huts or cells, the climate being so mild as not to require
them, and, the doors being always open, they are thus allowed
a freer circulation of air, and rendered more comfortable; that
the furniture consists, in some iistances, of a matting on the
floor, matting around'the walls, and a bunk filled with matting
for sleeping ; in others there is no mat on the floor, (the floor
of all is of earth,) matting only on two sides, and a bunk filled
with mats on the floor; that the food supplied to the prisoners
is the common food of the inhabitants, and wholesome, palatable, and invigorating, consisting of a vegetable called "taro,"
and fish; that the plaintiff was allowed to go out once a
day, out of the walls of the fort, under the charge of a native
officer, and his irons were' then taken off; that the sergeant of
the marines, there being no commissioned officer'in command,
commanded them, and was -also their quartermaster, and as
such was bound to -look after their comfort, and report their
wants to the defendant; and according to the discipline of the
ship, and the rules and usage of the service, he was the only
person to whom the marines could look, and through whom

JANUARY. TERM, 1849.

101

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

they could communicate with the defendant; that the said
sergeant did visit the plaintiff while in priso'n, and neveFdid
report that he was suffering from confinement or otherwise in
want of proper food or raiment; that such report, if ever made,
must have been made through the first lieutenant of the said
ship, and never was made to or through him; they further
showed, that, according to the discipline of the said ship, and
the rules and regulations of the navy, it was the duty of said
sergeant of marines to make report to said first lieutenau.of
every case in wihich any vermin of any sort or description were
found upon any marine, or among his clothing, and no such
report was made to the said first lieutenant by the said sergeant of or concerning the said plaintiff; and also that, in the
execution of the duties required -of the defendant and the
officers and men under his command, in and by the instructions of the President, as set out in the said printed book, no
part of the armed force employed in the said expedition was
more important than the marines, who were not only required
on board said ships for the ordinary duties thereof, but who
were more essential for the protection of the officers and men
on shore, while making explorations, surveys, and observations,
and gathering the information and facts directed by said instructions; that their services were deemed at the time the
said vessels were at Honolflu most requisite in the subsequent
part of the cruise ; that the said ships were then to visit the
wild shores, and the officers and men to come into contact
with the ferocious savages, of the Northwest Coast of America,
where the marine force was especially needed ;' and it was
deemed of the utmost importance to keep that force as large as
possible, and that the after expirience of the voyage confirmed
these impressions; that it was with this view deemed essential
to the public interest tp keep said plaintiff on board said ship,
and to require him to perform the duty of a marine; that the
said defendant, with all reasonable despatch, proceeded with
the repairing and, refitting of the said ships, which was not
completed until the -survey and exploration of the said island
of Oahu had been finished,: and so soon as the said ship was in
order the said plaintiff was brought on board; that, upon
being brought on board, he was required by the defendant to
go to duty, and refused, and was ordered to be imprisoned in
irons; the next day he was brought up, the ship being then
under weigh, and having left the said port, and again interrogated by the defendant, and required to go to duty; that he
expostulated with said plaintiff, antd explained his position, and
his duty to punish him if he persisted in such refusal; that he
called before said plaintiff the sergeant who commanded him,
9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

and who had signed with him the said articles contained in the
said contract marked A, and required him to state to said
plaintiff explicitly the terms of that contract; that the 'said
sergeant did,, in fact, explain it to him, and inform him that he
was bound to serve out the cruise; that plaintiff denied having
signed any such contract, and refused to go to duty ; that defendant pointed out to plaintiff how essential his services'were
to the public interest, and he still refused ; that defendant then
ordered him to receive twelve lashes on his bare back, and the
punishment was accordingly "inflicted in, the manner pointed
out in'the rules and regulations of the navy; that dofendant then ordered him to be released, and permitted to go at
large among the crew, stating that he did- so to"give him an
opportunity to converse with his comrades, and learn his obligations, and return to duty; tbat, on the evening of 'the same
day, the sergeant again reported plaintiff as refusing to do
duty; he was again called before defendant, and required to
go to duty, and again refhsed. and .was committed to.prison as
before, and the next morning again brought before defendant,
required to go to duty, refused to do so; and was punished
according to the said usage and discipline, and rules and regulations; that he afterwards went to duty; the defendant
then further gav-e evidence, by the said naval officers, and
other civiliis attached to said expedition', and on board the
said ship, that, on the several occasions of punishment aforesaid," the defendant did not exhibit any appearance of violence
or passion, bit was calm, temperate., and cool, and'expressed
his regret at the necessity he was under of punishing the said
plaintiff.
And the defendant further gave evidence, tending to show
that said plaintiff was not*confined in double irons, or separately, in the said prison, but was at large within the walls
of said fort; and that said fort was a comfortable place of
residence, and. more so than the prison of the ship -in the
-situation in which the said ship was during the time of said
improvement; and further,, that defendant had reasonable
-cause to -fear the 9pread of the disaffection among the said
marines; and the officers knew not whom to trust -at the
'ime and times of the imprisonment aforesaid of said plaintiff;. and that, shortly before the imprisonment of said plaintiff, -two marines on board the ship Pea~ock had been arrested,
and- sent on board the ship Vincennes; that. previous to
the arrest -of said plaintiff, he, with other men, -had agreed
among themselves, before they reached Honolulu, to demand
their discharge as soon as the terms of their enlistment had
expired, and they were in a port where they could be, sent

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

103

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

home; that, on arriving at Honolulu, and after most of the
seamen had reshipped, and no offer had been made to the
marines to reship, they had a conversation, and required their
sergeant to report to the captain that their terms were up; and
they required to be discharged in that port where there were
vessels to take them home; and that, while the said ship Vincennes and the Peacock were lying in the said port of Honolulu, two of the marines on board the Peacock were arrested
for insubordination and disobedience, and they, together with
an orderly seaman, were sent on board the Vincennes, about
the 7th of October, and confined in the said ship Vincennes
until a court-martial was convened for their trial, which was
held on board the Peacock, and by which they were sentenced
to be punished, which sentence was carried into effect; and
after that time the said ship Peacock' underwent a thorough
overhauling, and very extensive repairs. While she was lying
in the said harbour, and while she was undergoing such repairs,
some of her men deserted from her; and it was long after the
said court-martial, and after the execution of its sentence on
the said two marines, and they were discharged from imprisonment, and returned to duty, that .the said plaintiff refused to go
to duty.
Plaintiff's Statement of Evidence.
After the evidence contained in the plaintiff's first exception,
made part hereof, and the foregoing statement of defendant,
the plaintiff further gave evidence, tending to show, that, at the
time of committing the trespasses in the first count of the declaration alleged, and during all the time that said trespasses
cotitinued, the defendant could 'have securely confined said
plaintiff on board the said ship Vincennes, without any diffi-.
culty and.with safety to the said ship Vincrbnnes, her officers
and crew; and further, that the said United States ship Peacock, and the other vessels belonging to said squadron, and
under the command of the said defendant, were at the time of
the said imprisonment of said plaintiff in said fort at Oahiu,
present in the harbour of Honolulu, at said.-island, and that said
ship Peacock was lying within the distance of one hundred
yards from the said ship Vincennes, at the time the said plaintiff was sent to be imprisoned in the said fort; and further, that
said ship Peacock was at that time in a state of good discipline,
and that said plaintiff could without any difficulty have been
confined on said ship Peacock with perfect safety to said ship,
her officers and crew, and that he defendant had no reasonable
or probable cause to believe tliAt he could not have securely
confined the said plaintiff on board either of the said ships,

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilkes v. DInsman.

without any difficulty, and with perfect safety to said ships,
their officers and crew, and without any danger of their causing
mutiny, or insubordination.
And the said plaintiff further gave evidence tending to show
that he was by order of the defendant imprisoned in the said
fort, in a cell in said fort, in solitary confinement, for a period
of 15 days (Baab 18 or 20 days); that said fort was a low,
damp, filthy place, was the common prison for criminals and
malefactors among said native inhabitants of Oahu, and the
cell in which plaintiff was confined was dark and was not
ventilated, and that the same was abounding in vermin; that
said fort- was distant a half-mile from said ship Vincennes,
during all the time of said imprisonment; that, during all the
time the said plaintiff was so imprisoned in said fort, he was in
double irons, by order of the defendant, and was under the control and discipline of the native governor of said fort, and the
native sentinels therein; that, during said imprisonment, the
only food allowed or supplied to said plaintiff was supplied by
the native officers of said fort, and was only "taro" and fish,
and nothing.else ; and that said fish was sometimes, when so
supplied, in a rotten state, and said " taro" was an unpalatable
and unwholesome food to those unaccustomed to feed on it.
That, during the said imprisonment, a change of clothing,
nor any part thereof, was not supplied to said plaintiff, but the
same was refused to be supplied; and that he became filthy in
his person, and when he was brought away from said fort, and
put on board said slip Vincennes, by order of defendant, that
said plaintiff was filled with vermin. That, during the whole
of said imprisonment in said fort, the said plaintiff-was abandoned by the defendant to the sole care, attention, and discipline of the native officers about said fort. That, during the
whole time of said imprisonment of said plaintiff in said fort,
the defendant securely kept and confined on said ship Vincennes, as prisoners, a chief of the Fejee Islands, and others
of the crew of the said ship'; and that on the said ship Peacock more than four or five prisoners were at that time securely
confined; and gave evidence by the first lieutenant of said ship
Peacock, tending to 'prove that, at the time of said imprisonment of said plaintiff in said fort, fiftir-five marines could have
been securely confined in said ship Peacock.
And the said plaintiff further gave evidence tending to prove
that the trespasses by floggings and imprisonments inflicted on
said plaintiff, by order of the defendant, on said ship Vincennes,
as allegeil in the declaration in this cause, were immoderate, excessive, disproportionate to the offence alleged against
him, and of greater severity than is allowed by the rules and

-- ANUARY TERM, 1849.

105

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

regulations for the' government of the navy of the United
States, or the laws and customs in such cases at sea; and that
the-detention of the plaintiff on said ship or ships, by order of
the defendant, after the expiration of his term of enlistment
into the said marine corps, was not essential to the public interest, and that defendant had no. reasonable or probable cause to
believe that such deten4ion was essential to the public interest.
That, soon after the enlistment of said plaintiff had expired at
the island of Oahu, and he had requested his discharge and
leave to return to the United States, the defendant discharged
about fifteen seamen, at their request to be discharged, and
permitted them to go to the United States; that the marine
guard of said ship Vincennes was larger in numbers and force
of men, by three or four, than the usual and customary complement of marines on vessels of her class in the navy of the
United States; that the defendant, of his own authority, and
against his instructions from the President of the United States,
deviated from the course *of his cruise, as directed in said
instructions, and of his own authority prolonged the cruise of
said vessels belonging to said exploring expedition.
Defendant's 3d Bill of Exceptions.
Whereupon the defendant prayed the court to instruct the
jury, that if, from the evidence aforesaid, the jury shall find that
the said plaintiff signed the said contract naked A, and afterwards received the bounty stipulated therein, and signed a
receipt therefor, and remained and continued on board a vessel
of the United States under the command of an officer of the
United States navy, employed in the expedition in the said
contract named, doing duty as a marine, and receiving wages
therefor until the return of the said expedition to the United
States in the month of June, 1842 (except when imprisoned
as hereinafter stated); and that after the signing of said contract by said plaintiff, the defendant, then being an officer in the
navy of the United States, by order of the President took the
command of said expedition, and continued in command thereof
during the whole cruise; that the said plaintiff sailed from the
United States in the ship Vinceines, one of the ships of the
United States navy detailed for the said service, and under the
immediate command of the defendant; that the said ship, with
the said defendant as commander, and the -Iiid plaintiff as one
of the marines on board, sailed to the Southern Pacific Ocean
and the South Seas, and during her cruise received such injuries and became so much out of repair as to render it necessary to overhaul and repair her; and that she 'eached the port
of Honolulu, in the island of Oabu. in the month of Septem-

*"106

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

ber, 1840, and was there, for- the purpose of the said repairs
and the safety of. the. ship, brought into the inner harbour and
close to the shore; and while there for the purpose of said
repairs and refitting, her foremast was, taken out, her hold
-and other extensive work done on board ; and that,
broken -up,
w.le said repairs were being made, the defendant and other
officers, and such men as were necessary for that purpose, were
on shore; making such explorations, surveys,. and observations
as were required by the instructions of the President.
And that whil6 said repairs were so as aforesaid being made,
and the said defendant and other officers and men were so
employed on shore, the marine guard on board said ship suffered men placed under their guard to escape, and another to
get- drunk while under guard; and afterwards the plaintiff,
with other marines, severally and collectively refused to do
duty on board said ship, and were therefore ordered by the
defendant to be confined in a' fort on the island, in charge of
-the natives of the island. And if they shall be of opinion further, from the facts and circumstances, and the whole evidence,
that it would have been unsafe to confine the said plaintiff on
board the said ship, and that the said fort was under the charge
of a governor. who spoke English, and wag used as the place of
gonfnement for the seamen of the merchant service, of this
and other countries, in the said island; that the sergeant of
marines was the officer in command of said marines and the
plaintiff on board the said ship, and was also the:r quartermaster; and that it was his duty to report io the ctfendant the
situation. of the said mrines, from time to time, and to look
after their comfort; and that the -said sergeant of marines visited the said fort while said plaintiff was confined there, and
x.ade no report to the defendant; that the prisons of- the said
fort had no doors to them,-and the said plaintiff was kept as
other prisoners were, and that-they were again brought on
board the said ship so goon as they could with safety be
brought there; theA such imprisonment was within the lawful
authority and -duty of the said defendant, and he is not liable
therefor in this action.
And if they shall further find that the said plaintiff was
brought from the said fort on bord 'the said ship as soon'ds it
was safe to bring him there, and, upon being brought on board,
the said defendant, still being in command of said ship, required
him to go. to duty, and he refused to 'do so, and thereupon he
had him confined in prison on board said ship, in irons, 'and
the next day caused plaintiff to be brought before him, and
remonstrated with him, and caused his immediate officer to
explain to him his obligation, and the nature of 'the contract,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

107

Wilkes v. Dinsman:

and then required *him to go to duty, and he refused, and
thereupon he ordered him to be punished, and he was.punishedi
according to th rules and regulations of the navy; which rule
and regulations it has been agreed the jury may find; and
after such punishment, directed him to go at large among the
crew, that he might converse with them, and so learn his duty,
and he did go at large; and on the evening of the same day
again refused to go to duty, and was again imprisoned by the
defendant; and was again the next day brought before the
defendant', and refused to go to duty, and -was punished as
aforesaid; then it. was lawful for the said defendant to punish
the said plaintiff as often as, being called upon as aforesaid, he
refused, to go to duty; and the said defendant is not liable in
this action for the said imprisoniment and corporal punishment.
Which instruction the court refused to give; and, on refusing, assigned, as reasons 'therefor, and so instructed the jury,
that the word "unsafe seems too vague, uncertain, aid
equivocal to justify in law such an imprisonment in the fort on
the island, in charge of the natives. I think the jury must be
satisfied, by the evidence, that there was an urgent necessity
of using the fort, in order to justify such imprisonment, especially if the jury should be satisfied there was another armed
vessel of the United States in the port, in which the plaintiff
might have been safely kept."
On the second part of the instruction prayed, the court said.:"I think it is not a sufficient justification to find that the punishment was according to the rules and regulations of the
nayy. In the petty offences which by those rules are punishable by flogging, there is a limit within which the officer has
a discretion, which 'should be exercised soundly and reasonably; and, in order to justify the officer, the jury must be
satisfied that it was'so exercised. In the case of -such petit
offences I think each punishment settles all previous offences
of that kind. If, after such punishment, a new offence be committed, it will of course be liable to a new punishment. The
shipping articles alone did not justify the corporal punishment.
In no case, unless by express statute, can corporal punishment
be lawful, unless it be-reasonable, according to the aggravation
and circumstances of the case, and the reasonableness must be
found by the jury, or the punishment cannot be justified."
To which refusal by the court to give the said instruction so
prayed by the defendant, and also to the opinion and instructions so given by the court to the jury, the defendant, by his
counsel, excepts, and prays the court to sign.and seal this bill
of exceptions, and to cause the same to be enrolled according
to the statute; which is done this 29th day of April, 1845.,

W. OR&NCn. [SAL.]

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

Defendant's 4th Bill of Exceptions.
And thereupon the defendant further. prayed the court to
instruct the jury, that if, from the evidence aforesaid, the jury
should not find that the said plaintiff made the said contract
and received the said bounty, but that he was, previous to the
said.alleged grievances, an enlisted marine on board the said
United States ship. Vincennes, a public vessel of the United
States employed on foreign service under the command of the
defendant, and that the defendant was the commander of the
expedition on which she was employed, and the time of service
of the said plaintiff, enlisted as aforesaid, expired while he
was on board said ship on foreign service, and his detention
was deemed essential to the public interests by the said commander, then it was lawful for the said defendant, commander
as aforesaid, to detain the said plaintiff on board the said ship;
and the said plaintiff was thereby made subject to the laws and
regulations for the government of the navy; which instruction
the court refused to give, in the form in which it was prayed,
being of opinion, and so instructed the jury, that the burden
of proof was on the defendant to show that the detention of
the said plaintiff was essential to the public interests, and that
itwas not confided absolutely to the discretion of the commander; and thereupon the said defendant, by his counsel,
excepts, and prays the couwt to sign and seal this bill of exceptions, which is done ; and the same is ordered to be enrolled,
according to the statute, this 30th day of April, 1845.
W.

CRANCH. [sEAL..]

Defendant's 5th Bill of Exceptions.
Whereupon the defendant preyed the court to instruct the
from the evidence afores.id, the jury shall find that
jury, that if,
the sail plaintiff, on the
'day of
, enlisted
as a marine in the naval service of the United States, and was
never discharged therefrom by the President of the United
States; and, being so enlisted, he was, during his term aforesaid,
ordered on board the Vincennes, a United States man-of-war,
under the command of the defendant, on foreign service, and
while on board said vessel, on such foreign service, his term of
service expired; and if, from the said evidence, the jury shall
further find that the detention of the said plaintiff on board the
said ship was essential to the public interests, then it was
lawful for the defendant so to detain the said plaintiff as aforesaid, and, being so detained, he was thereby subject to the rules
and regulations of the-navy of the United States; and if the
iury shall further find that the said plaintiff, being so detained

JANUARY TERM,, 1849.

109

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

as aforesaid, refused to do duty on board the said ship, upon
being required to do so by the defendant, then. it was lawful
for the defendant to punish him with stripes, according to thb
said rules and regulations, for every offence not exceeding
twelve lashes; and every such refusal was a new offence, for
which he was subject to punishment; and every such punishment was a full satisfaction for every such offence to the time
of the infliction thereof. Which instruction the court refused
to give; and thereupon the said defendant, by his counsel,
excepts thereto, and prays the court to sign and seal this bill
of exceptions, whjch is done, according to the statute, this 30th
day of April, 1845.
W.

CRANCH. [SEAL.]

Defendant's 6th Bill of Exceptions.
Whereupon the defendant further prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if, from the evidence aforesaid, the jury shall
find that the said plaintiff, on the
day of
-enlisted into the marine corps of the United States; and afterwards, on the
day of April, 1838, while in the said service,
and during the said enlistment, was ordered on board the Vincennes, a vessel in the navy of the United States, and, as such
marine, proceeded in the said ship on foreign -service, under
the command of the defendant; and the time of service of the
said plaintiff, enlistqd as aforesaid, expired while he was on
board the said ship on foreign service, and his detention was
deemed essential, by the commander of the expedition -in which.
he was engaged, to the public interests, then it was lawful forthe said defendant, commander as aforesaid, to detain the said,
plaintiff on board the said ship; and the said plaintiff was.
thereby made subject to the laws and regulations for the gov-erment of the navy, and bding so subject, if he refused to lo.
duty on board said vessel when required by said commander,.
then it was lawful for the said commander, in his discretion,
to punish him under the rules and regulations of the navy, not
exceeding twelve lashes for every such refusal, provided the
said punishment -was inflicted between each of said reftsals,,
and he is not liable therefor in this action; which instruction
the court refused to give; and thereupon the defendant, by
his counsel, excepts, and prays the court to sign and seal this
bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly, this 30th day of
April, 1845.
W. CRANCH. [sEA L.]
Defendant's 7&h Bill of Exceptibns.
Whereupon the plaintiff, by his attorney, prayed the. court
VOL. VII.
10

110

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. JDinsman.

to instruct the jury, that if the jury believe, from. the evidence
aforesaid, that the said defendant could have securely kept and
confined the said plaintiff on board te said ship Vincennes, or
on board the said ship Peacock, with safety to the said ships, their
officers and crews, then the defendant had no right to imprison
said plaintiff in said fort in the island of Oahu; and the jury
may give such damages therefor as upon the whole evidence
aforesaid they may think the said plaintiff erititled to, provided
the jury shall find that the said ships Vincennes and. Peacock
were together, at the time of said imprisontihent, minthe said
harbour of Honolulu, and were under the command of the
defendant, and that said imprisonment in said -fort was caused
and continued by order of the defendant; which instruction
the court gave as prayed; to which instruction the defendant,
by his attorney, excepts, and this his bill of exceptions is
signed, sealed, and ordered to be enrolled, this 30th day of
April, 1845.
W. CA,,CH. [s-...]
Defendant's 8th Bill of Exceptions.
Whereupon, the plaintiff further prayed the court to instruct
the jury, that if, from the evidence -aforesaid, the jury believe
that the floggings and imprisonments of the said plaintiff, on
board the said ship Vincennes, alleged in the declaration in
this cause, were immoderate, excessive, unreasonable in degree,
and disproportioned to the alleged offences, and that such punishment was severer in.degree than the rules and regulations
for the government of the navy of the United States, or the
laws and customs in such cases at sea, authorize, then the
plaintiff may recover such damages therefor as, upon the
whole evidence, the jury may think he ought to have; provided the jury shall find that the said floggings and imprisonments were inflicted by order of the defendant; which
instruction the court gave as prayed; to which instruction the
defendant, by his counsel, excepts; and this his bill of exceptions is signed, sealed, and ordered to be enrolled, this 30th day
of April, 1845.
W. OiwNcu. [SEL
Defendant's 9th Bill of Exceptions.
Whereupon, the plaintiff further prayed the court to instruct
the jury, that if the jury believe, from the evidance aforesaid,
that th6 detention of the plaintiff, as alleged in the declaration in this cause, after the term of his said enlistment in the
marine corps had fully expired, was not essential to the public
interests, then such detention was unlawful, and the plaintiff.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

111

Wilkes v. Diusman.

is entitled to. recover such damages therefor as, in the opinion
of the jury; from the whole evidence, he ought to have; provided the jury shall find that the said plaintiff was detained
by oider of the defendant; which instruction the court gave
as prayed; to which instruction the defendant, by his counsel,
excepts; and this his bill of exceptions is signed, sealed, and
ordered to be enrolled, this 30th day of April, 1845.
W.

CRANCH. [sEAL.]

The case came up to this court upon these bills of exceptions, and was argued by Mr. Bradley and Mr. Toucey (Attorney-General), for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. May, for the
defendant in error.
The points raised by Mr. Bradley, the .,oening counsel,
which were contested by Mr. May and sustained by the Attorney-General, were as follows: I. The court erred in ruling out the evi~dence in the first
exception, because, 71. The papers were official Teports by the defendant, anre
litem nwtam,' tending,'(1.) to 'show that the. regnlistment was
recognized by the government, and that the government approved the detention of the men during the cruise, as being
essential to the public interest ; (2.) to rebut any presumption
of malice.
II. The court erred in ruling out the evidence of the courtm artial, because,
1. It was a bar to any recovery by the plaintiff.
2. It tended to meet every presumption of malice, by showing that his conduct had undergone a judicial investigation for
these matters before a competent court.
3. It tended to show a complete recognition and sanction
by the government of all the acts complained of, and it then
depends uppn the authority of the government.
III. The.court erred-in refusing the prayer stated in the third
exception; -and also in the instruction they gave.
1. If the word unsafe was too indefinite, the prayer might
have been refused; but the qualification and instruction that
there must be "an urgent necessity"s was equally indefinite,
and is not in itself accurate.
2. The rules and regulations of the navy import a justification.
IV. And there is error in each and every one of the other
exceptions.
1. Because the question of detention is within the discretion of the commander, and imports a justification. If not

SUPREM E COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

conclusive, it is prima facie, and the burden of proof was on
the plaintiff to impeach it, and aver and prove malice.
2. (1.) Because, if he was lawfully detained, the plaintiff
was lawfully subject to the rules and regulations of the navy,
and for refusing to go to duty he was liable to be punished not
exceeding twelve strijes, by order of the commander, for
every such offence, and the refusals given in evidence were
independent and substantive offences. (2.) A refusal to go to
duty is not such a disobedience of orders as necessarily implies a mutinous spirit or intent. There is a discretion in the
officer to determine whether it is one of those petty offences
which tend to corrupt the morals of the crew, and which may
be punished by order of the commander, or of that higher
grade which requires-severer punishment.
3. Because the court limited the question of " Isafety" to
the ships, officers, and crews, without regard to the prisoner
himself; and the word safety is, equally indefinite with the
word unsafe.
4. (1.) Because they submitted to the jury the interpretation of the rules and regulations of the navy, and-to find also
"the laws and customs at sea governing the national vessels
of the United States." (2.) Because the contract of enlistment
and the reenlistment given in evidence subjected the plaintiff
to the rules and regulations of the navy, independent of any
laws and customs at sea, except in cases not provided for by
said rules and regulations; and this case was provided for by
them.
5. (1.) Because the ninth exception either excludes from
consideration the effect of the re6nlistment, which the court
was bound to interpret; or if it is left open by the phrase, "if
he did so detain them," it is too obscure, and the jury may well
have been misled by it into the supposition that the court had
taken that matter from them. (2.) It does not put the detention on the ground of constraint, and being against the will of
.the plaintiff.
With respect to, the first exception, Mr. Bradley cited the
acts of Congress referred to in the statement of this case, and
-contended that Dinsman had voluntarily made a- contract .by
which he agreed to 6bey all the laws for the regulation of the
navy, and, at all events, the evidence ought to have gone to
the, jury to rebut th presumption of malice.
2d exception. The judgment of the court-martial was sanctioned by the President, and consequently Wilkes's detention of
Dinsman was approved.. Perhaps it was not a legal bar to the
action, but was good evidence to show that Wilkes was acting
under a sense of duty, and not actuated by malice. Bull. N.
P. 19. 12 Mass. Rep. 579.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

113

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

3d exception. The terms of rednlistment were the same as
the original except in two points, namely, that it provided for a
term of service in the Exploring Expedition, and for an indefinite time. Could not Congress legislate for this? They
passed an act to regulate the Exploring Expedition,- and the
contract with Jones was in fact a contract with the United
States. We say, therefore, that the chastisement which was
inflicted was authorized by law. The opinion of the c9urt
below would destroy all discipline in the navy. On the subject of imprisonment on shore in the merchant service, and to
inflict corporal punishment, he cited Shee's Abbott on Shipping, chap. 4,.part 2, p. 177; Ware, 18, 19, 207, 230, 371,
503; 1 Story, 106; 4 Mason, 511, 512; 5 Mason, 193; 1
Sumner, 397, 398.
Under the contract, therefore, without reference to the. statute, Wilkes had a right to inflict this punishment.
But the navy regulations also justified it, The marine
corps is a part of the navy. Naval Laws, 100, 156, 164. The
act of 1837 "necessarily gave the commanding officer a discretion to judge whether or not the interests of the service
required the detention of Dinsman. If the jury were satisfied
that he deemed it expedient to do so, it was enough. The
law protected him unless malice was shown, and it was for the
other side to prove malice.
5th exception. Every refusal to do duty was a fresh offence.
Rules and Regulations for the Navy, Art 3, 14,. 30. Act of
April 23, 1800.
7th and 8th exceptions. The power of the officer over the
man, and the interpretation of the navy regulations, were not
matters of fact for the jury. They were questions of law.
The court ought to have decided whether or not the contract
.of reenlistment was binding.
Mr. May, for defendant in error, recited all the facts in
the case, and proceeded to examine what were the rights of
Wilkes in the case; and how acquired. The earlier laws were
almost all repealed by the act of June 30, 1834. See Naval
Laws, 156.
The enlistment took place on the 21st of November, 1836,
and was forfour years. Consequently it expired on the _Ist of
November, 1840. But it has been argued that a rednlistment
was made, to extend over the entire cruise. There is no
authority in any law for such a contract ; none which justifies
an indefinite enlistment. If there is, let it be shown. The
agreement with Jones was not a valid contract. Joiles had no
authority to make it. Besides, the man was already enlisted
10*

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

for four yeas, and whilst thus in service was incapable of
making another and different contract.
The act of March 2, 1833, provides that no bounty shall
be allowed, and the Fourth Auditor was right in taking this
view of it. Tfie contract was therefore in violation of law,
and cannot be binding. Even supposing the contract with
Jones to be good, it was only with him personally, and did not
pass to his successor. Where a public contract is made under
legal authority, -and in the line of. duty, by -an officer, it is
binding. 1 Cranch, 363.. But Jones had no legal authority.
It is argued that this contract is like those which are madein the merchant service. The form of these is given in Abbott on Shipping (Story's ed.), page 550. The term of service is required to be fixed for the protection of seamen.
Suppose that the contract of reenlistment with Jones was
valid, what were Wilkes's rights under it? They must be
only what Congress gave by the act providing rules and
regulations for -the navy. Do these authorize an imprisonment out of the ship ? Let the other side show any such.
But it has been said that the act of 1837 gave to Wilkes a
right to detain this man. That act relates only to seamen
and boys.- It does not include marines, either in the title or
body of the law. Whenever.any act of Congress intend6 to
include the marine -corps, it always says so. The late Attorney-General, Mr. Legar6, gave an opinion that marines were
mot included in this act. The act was passed after the enlistment was made, and cannot be retroactive.
The enlistment
took place on the 14th of November, 1836, and the act was
passed on the 2d of March, 1837. On the subject- of retrospective laws, Mr. May -cited 1 Gallison, 139'; 4 Serg. & Rawle,
408; 2 Peters, 657; 6 Cranch, 174; 16 Mass. Rep. 245.
Wilkes's rights over Dinsman were not unlimited or despotic.
They were regulated either,
1st. by statute; 2d. by usage.
(lr. Mlay then examined the statutes and navy regulations,
and contended that the authority which he had exercised was
not justified by them..)
2d. Usage.
The authorities show ihat 'the power of a captain is not
unlimited. 2 Carr. &. Payne, 148; Shee's Abbott on Ship.
177, .178; 1 Hagg. Adm. 272; 2 Starkie, 452; 1 Cowper, 161 ; 14 Johns. 119; Giipin, 232; 4 Mason, 511; 512;
1 Story, 106; 1 Ware, 18, 19, 37?, 503; Pet. Adm, 174; 175;
Ware, 224, where the whole subject is traced; 1 W -odb. &
Min. 267.
• If*the master inflicts an unusual punishment,'hfe is responsible. It is very doubtful whether he can lawfully confine a
.--

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

115

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

seaman in a foreign jail. The eighth article of the Constitution of the United States says, that cruel and unusual punishments shall not be inflicted; and the question whether or not a
punishment is one of this forbidden class is a question of fact
for a jury.
1st exception. Wilkes wished to read his own letter to the
Secretary of the Navy. This was not proper evidence, and
could not even mitigate damages, because it afforded no proof
of the state of his mind, two years after it was written, when.
these severe punishments were inflicted. The exception does
not state the purpose for which it was offered. It is now said
that it was to show that the government approved his conduct. But there was no evidence offered below, that the Secretary of the Navy approved of or even answered it.
2d exception. Dinsman was no party to the record of the
court-martial by wliich Wilkes was acquitted. Buller's N. P.,
and 12 Mass. Rep. 597, have been referred fo; but, in both
these cases, the plaintiff was a party to the proceeding. The
opinions of officers of the court-martial are .no evidence of
Wilkes's state of mind ;.and, besides, there were many other
charges upon which he *as tried.
3d exception. The prayer here is based upon the contract
with Jones. But this contract was void, and therefore the
court below was right. There is no authority anywhere
given by law, by which an officer of the navy can confine a
man on shore. The rules of the merchant service do not
apply, because vessels of war have ample means of imprisonment within themselves. The prayer proposed to submit to
the jury whether or not Dinsman was punished according to
the rules and regulations of the navy. But this was a question of law. The rules, &c., were not offered in evidence, and
therefore the jury could not decide.
4th exception. The act of Congress does not leave it to
the mere arbtrizum of an officer whether to detain a seaman or
not. The burden of proof is upon hith, to show that the detention was essential to the interests of the service. The act
of Congress directs the officers to " report to the navy department," and implies therefore that he is'responsible for his acts.
5th exception. It has been said that every refusal to do
duty is a fresh offence. If this argument be sound, a man
might be whipped to death for, refusing to perform dfity after
thb term of his enlistment had expired.
6th exception. This depends on the same principle.
7th and 8th exceptions. If the above principles are corect,
the prayers in these exceptions are even less beneficial than
we.had.a right to expect, and are not erroneous.

116

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

9th exception. We are not bound to prove malice . The law
infers it from the acts done. 3 East, 599; 1 Greenleaf's Ev.,
see. 34; 2 Greenleaf, sec. 94; 1 Sumner, 399; 2 Starkie on
Ev. 904, 905.
Mr. Toucey (Attorney- General), for the plaintiff in error.
The letter to the Secretary of the Navy and the proceedings
of the court-martial, mentioned in the first and second bills of
exception, were improperly ruled out. The letter was an official letter relating to public duty. The court-martial had acquitted Captain Wilkes.
The third bill of exceptions, as to the plaintiff's imprisonment
-in the fort.
The court refused to let the defence, rest upon the point of
the safety of the ship to which the'plaintiff belonged; but put
the validity of the defence upon urgent necessity, as something
more than the mere safety of the ship. The clause, "especially if the jury should be satisfied there was another armed
vessel of the United States in the port, in which the plaintiff
might have been safely kept," does not qualify the charge; because, if the jury did not find this, the charge still remained.
-Here the court says the safety of th ship is not a sufficient justification for removing a mutineer to the fort, but there must be
an urgent necessity, and that would justify it. The jury must
necessarily have been misled by this instruction, and great injustice done to an officer who looked to the safety of his ship
as the first and principal point of duty.
The court refused to charge the jury, that, if the plaintiff re-.
fused to go to duty, and was punished for it according to the
rules and regulations of the navy, it was a sufficient defence;
but charged affirmatively, that this was not a sufficient justification. The court charged very correctly, that, "in the petty
offences which, by those rules, are punishable by fBogging,
there is a limit within which the offiter has a discretion " ; and
then charged the other way, that the jury must judge whether
he exercised that discretion soundly and reasonably. In other
words, that he has no discretionwhich he can exercise, but the
jury must exercise it for him, upon the testimony of witnesses,
after the occasion has passed away.
The court further instructed the jury, that the shipping articles alone did not jutif~v the corporal punishment, and that the
reasonableness of it ffixust be found by the jury. The shilping.
article in this case is the contract of enlistment. The plaintiff expressly agreed tobe subjected to the rules and discipline
of the navy. If punished in a given case precisely according
to those rules, the art is justified by the agreement, and the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

117

Wilkes v..Dinsman.

charge that its reasonableness must be found by the jury is
misapplied and erroneous. The-question of "reasonableness"
arises in those cases only where the law authorizes the application of reasonable force. But where the law, and the consent of the party, authorize the application of fortse according
to certain definite rules, the only question is, whether it has
been applied according to those rules.
The fourth and ninth bills of exceptions may be considered
together.
By the fourth, the court refused the instruction, that, if the
plaintiff's detention was deemed essential to -the public interests
by the commander; the defendant, as such commander, had a
right to detain him, and that the plaintiff was thereby made
subject to the rules and regulations for the government of the
navy. The court further instructed the jury affirmatively, that
-the burden of proof was on the defendant, to show that the detention of the plaintiff was essential to the public interests, and
that it was not confided absolutely to the discretion of the
commander.
By the ninth, the court, at the plaintiff's request, charged- that,
if the jury believed the detention not essential to the public interests, the plaintiff might recover.
The act of the 2d of March, 1837 (5 Stat. at Large, 153),
provides, "that when the time of service of any person enlisted
for the navy shall expire when he is on board any of the publio
,Vessels of the United States employed on foreign service, it
shall be the duty of the commanding officer, &c., to send him
to the United States in some public or other vessel, unless his
detention be essential to the public interests, in which case the
said officer may detain him until the vessel in which he shall
be serving shall return to the United States; and it shall be the
duty of said officer immediately to make report to the Navy
.Department of such detent' n, and the causes thereof." It
further provides, that the per on so detaied "shall ' be subject
in all'respects to the laws and regul "ons for the government
of the navy, until their return to the United States, and all
such persons as shall be so detained, and all such as shall voluntarily regnlist to serve until the return of the vessel in which
they shall be serving and their regutlar discharge therefrom in
the United States, shall, while so detained, and while so serving
under their renlistment, receive an addition of 6ne fourth to
their pay." Are the marines comprehended in these terms?
The words are, "when the time uf service of any person enlisted for the navy shall expire." Marines are enlisted for the
navy. The court assumed they were within the law. They
are pregminently within its reason, and are precisely within its

118

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

letter. The contract with them was only commensurate with
the power conferred by that act. It was to take effect after the
existing term expired; it was not material when it was made
it might be necessary to make it before the cruise; it is enough
that it secured consent to what the law authorized.
The charge of the court absolutely excluded the agreement
to serve during the cruise; it submitted to the jury the question which the commander was authorized by the act of Congress to decide, and by his duty as an officer required to decide. The question is one of discretion, a question of government, a mere political question. It must be decided before the
person or crbw could be detained. The necessity is a present
one, in foreign parts. The duty is devolved on the commander
to act one way or the other, to send the men home, or detain
them according to that decision. It is expressly made his duty
to report the-causes of the detention, that is, the grounds of the
decision, which would be -impossible unless he made it. The
power to be exercised of detaining the men is expressly'conferred on him. It is the declared consequence of its exercise,
-that they shall be subject to the rules "and 'regulations for the
government of the navy. Others are to act ul on that decision
thus made, and are not required to revise it, or permitted to
question it. It is the duty of all the subordinate officers, and
of the crews of the different ships, to obey the orders of the
commanding officer founded on that decision, and such order is
not only a sufficient .warrant for their obedience, but they -are
liable to the penalty of death if'they disobey it, It is the duty
of the Treasury Delartment and Pension Office to act upon it.
The power itself, in.its essential character, is a practical powerof government. It is part and parcel of the executive power,
as applicable to the navy, and belonging to its officers. Without its certain exercise, there cbuld be no authority or discipline. It is impossible that the grounds of the order should be.
submitted to a jury before it be known whether it is to be
obeyed. Nor can they be submitted to- a jury upon evidence.
It would not be practicable to prove them. No one knows
what those grounds are, except the officer who makes the order. They lie often within his own knowledge ekclusively,
and he cannot be a witness. They are often the result of his
sagacity and foresight, as well' as observation, and are incapable of proof. It is the greatest absurdity to suppose that .an
act of Congress has left it doubtful, and to be ascertained afterwards by the verdict of a jury, whether a fleet in actual service
is a voluntary association, or a legally organized body under
the government of law; whether. the crews of a squadron, aie
in the naval service or not; whether the commander or -any of

JA&NUARY

TERM, 1849.

119,

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

his subordinate officers have any lawful command; or that
these questions are to be decided, perhaps years afterwards, in
each particular case, according to the uncertain and varying
opinions of a jury. And the cruelty of it would be as great as
its absurdity. It would be a 'refinement of cruelty to require
an officer to act upon a combination of circumstances incapable
of proof, and upon his own knoviledge, judgment, and sagacity,
and then punish him for want of proof, or perhaps for being
wiser than twelve men igriorant upon the subject. The government has a -general power independent of the act. The
true view is, that the point was decided by the government.
The action of Qommodore Jones here at home in the presence
of the government; the payment of the bounty; the action of
the Treasury Department fi paying the men as in the service;
the absence of any disapproval; the approval, of the acquittal
on the charge for detaining and coercing them. Whether the
matter was decided by the President personally through the
Navy Department, or through the commander of the expedition, the same result follows, -the decision is conclusive upon
the judicial department. As to the rule relative to the discretion of a public officer, when it is made his duty to decide and
to act, and of others to act according to that discretion. The
question is an important one. It involveg a great principle, essential to tle powers of government. The discretion' within
the limits assigned to it, though in an executive officer, partakes of the character of judicial discretion. The authorities
are conclusive.- Drew v. Colton, 1 East, 565, in note; Seamen
v. Patten, 2 Caines, 312; Vanderheyden v. Young, 11 Johns.
150; Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19; Decatur v. Paulding, 14
Pet. 497; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How. 97, 98; Brashear v. Mason,
6 How. 101, 102.
The court also held, that when, in the discharge of his duty
to the best of his judgment, the commander had decided to detain the men, it was to be presumed that he had acted wrong,
and the burden of proof lay upon him to show that he had acted right. In Martin v. Mott, this court lay down the contrary
rule.
The fifth bill of exceptions.
The court refused the instruction, that, if the jury should find
the detention of the plaintiff essential to the public interests, it
was lawful for the defendant to detain him, and, for a refusal to
do duty, to punish him according to the rules and regulations
of the navy, wqith stripes not exceeding twelve, &c. In such
case clearly he was liable jo be detained; he was subject to
the rules and discipline of the navy; he was liable to be punished for mutiny or insubordination under those rules. The

120

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

act of 30th June, 1834 (4 Stat. at Large, 712), provides, "that
the said corps shall, at all times, be subject to and..inder .the
laws and regulations which are or may hereafter be established
for the better government of the navy, except when detached
with the army by order of the President."
The instruction refused in the sixth bill of exceptions is siviilar to the last, except that it was lawful for the commander in
his discretion to punish, under the rules and regulations of the
navy.
The seventh bill of exceptions.
The court, at the plaintiff's request, instructed the jury, that,
if the defefidant could have securely kept and confined the
plaintiff in the Vincennes or the Peacock, with safety to the
ships, their officers and crews, the. defendant had no right to'
imprison the plaintiff in the fort. The breadth of the proposition ia, that, had it required the exclusive attention of every
officer, seaman, and marine to have kept and confined the
plaintiff oti board safely, the defendant could not justify sending the mutineer to the fort during the stay at the island.
The jury 'ould not do otherwise than convict, under this instruction; because it was doubtless possible for the commander,
officers, and men safely to confine one man on board eitherof the ships, and save them, their officers and crews, from destruction.
The eighth bill of exceptions.
At the plaintiff's request, the court charged, that; if, the punishment was immoderate, excessive, unreasonable, disproportioned, severer than the rules of the navy or the laws and customs in such cases at sea authorize, the plaintiff might recover.
This excluded the commander from the protection of the rules
and regulations for the navy. If, in tW~e opinion of the jury, the
punishment was immoderate, &c,, and, though not more severe
thanthe rules and regulations of the navy authorized, yet more
severe than the laws and customs in such cases at sea authorized, they were.directed to convict the defendant.
By the instructions given and withheld,, the defendant was
deprived, -_
1st. Of the benefit of showing the sanction of his government in every form known to the laws.
2d. Of the fundamental rule of the safety of the ship, as a
guide to -the officer exercising discretionary power conferred for
that end.
3d. Of the benefit of the renewed contract of enlistment, by
which the men agreed to b6 detained during the cruise.
4th. Of the benefit of the act of 1837, giving him power to
detain the men abroad, after the expiration of their terms, when
the public'interestsrequire it.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

121

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

5th. Of the protection of the rules and rergilations for the
government of the navy, when acting within them.
6th. Of the discretionary use of the consular prisons,-when
necessary in the suppression of mutiny.
. 7th. Of the usual presumption in favor of the exerdise of
official discretion.
8th. And finally, of legal protection in the upright exercise
of discretionary power conferred on him as a public officer for
public ends, where the law imposed on him the duty to exercise it.
1. The commander of the Exploring Expedition. was a public
officer, intrusted with power which it was his .duty to exercise,
and it was his right to show on the trial that he acted by direction of his government, or with its sanction.
2. The safety of the ship or squadron was a fundamental
rule to guide him in the exercise 6f the discretion which the
law had given him. it is the law of the highest necessity.
3. After the passage of the act of March 2d, 1837, it was
competent for him to make with the men the. agreement of
October, 1837, that they would serve during -the term of the
cruise, and until the vessel should return to a port of safity in
the United States.
4. Independently of this contract, he had legal power under
the act to require the men thus to serve. Thus intrusted with
certain power for a public object, it was his duty to exercise
that power according to his view of the exigency, that is, rccording to h.is view of present circumstances, and he is protected by the law which imposed that duty, if he discharged it uprightly.
5. Whether the cas& be one of renewed. contract, or of detention under the act; the marines, during the period of such
service, were subject to .the rules and regulations established
for the government of the navy, and liable to be punished for
mutiny or insubordination according to such rules and regulations, and the officer conforming to them is justified by them.
6. Within those rules and regulations 'he has the power of
confining an offender, aiad as they do not limit him to any particular place of confinement, and it is admitted he may use the
consular prison, it is necessarily intrusted to him to determine
whether the ship's prison or the consular prison shall be used for
that purpose; and if he decide that question in good faith, with
pure motives, he is not answerable for any error in judgment.
7. If his decision may be reviewed and reversed by a jury
upon the mere question of expediency, there is neither law,
reason, nor propriety which forbids the commander to remove
a mutineer from the squadron to the consular prison, though it
VOL. vIE.

11

122

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

may be possible to confine him in some one of the ships with
safety. Even in the case of a private vessel it may be done,
if it be safer or better to do so, or a great offence has been committed. Wilson v. The Mary, Gilpin, 32; Magee v. The Moss,
ib. 233; United States v. Wickham, 1 Wash. C. C. 316;
Thorne v. White, 1 Pet. Adm. 168; Abbott on Shipping,
Story's'ed., 137.
8. It is to be taken, prima fade, that a public officer has
done his duty. It is not to be presumed. that he has been
guilty of an act of infidelity to the public trust committed to
him. As declared by this court in Martin v. Mott, every public officer is presumed to act in obedience to his duty, until the
contrary be shown. The onusprobandidoes not lie on him.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original action -in this case was trespass by a marine in
the Exploring Expedition against its commanding officer.
It will be seen, by the statement of the case, that the injury
complained of was a punishment inflicted on the plaintiff by
the defendant, in November, 1840, near the Sandwich Islands,
for disobedience of orders, or a refusal to perform duty when
directed.
The plaintiff claimed, that the term-for which he was bound
to serve as a marine had then expired; that the defendant'had
no right or justification to detain him longer on board; and
that, his refusal to do duty longer being the only reason, and an
insufficient one, for punishing him at all, under such circumstances he was entitle4 to recover damages of the defendant for
subjecting him to receive twelve lashes, and for a repetition of
the punishment on a subsequent day, after another request and
refusal by him to obey. And also, id the mean time, for putting him in irons, and confining him in a native prison on the
island of Oahu.
The defendant pleaded the general issue; and by agreement
of parties, any special matter was allowed to be given in evidence under that issue.
Various questions of law arose during the trial, which are
presented on the record in nine separate bills of exceptions by
the defendant, and one by the plaintiff. Some of them are of
an ordinary character ; but others possess much interest, and are
important in their consequences, not only to these parties, but
to the government and the community at large.
.In a public enterprise like the Exploring Expedition, specially
authorized"by Congress in 1836, (see Act of Congress of 14th
May, 1836, 5 Statutes at Large, 29, sec. 2,) for purposes of commerce and science, very valuable to the country; and not en-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

123

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

tirely without interest to most of the civilized world, it was a&sential to secure it from being defeated by any discharge of the
crews before its great objects were accomplished, or by any
want of proper authority, discretionary or otherwise, in the
commander, to insure, if possible, a successfol issde to the enterprise.
It is not to be lost sight of, however, and will be. explained
more fully hereafter, that, while the chief agent of the govemment, in so important a trust, when conducting with skill,
fidelity, and energy, is to be protected under mere errors of
judgment in the discharge of his duties, yet'he is not to be
shielded froni responsibility if he acts out of his authority or
jurisdiction, or inflicts private injury either from malice, cruelty, or any species of oppression, founded. on considerations independent of public ends.
The humblest seaman or marine is to be sheltered under the
aegis of the law from any real wrong, as well as the highest inoffice. Considerations connected with these views are -involved in most of the points ruled by the court below. .
But the first and second exceptions taken by the defendant.
raise incidental questions, which it may be better 'to dispose of
separately, before procee dinig to the principal points involved.
One of these questions is the propriety of rejecting a letter
written by the defendant, in relation to the bounty given -to the
seamen and marines on their re~nlisting or contracting to serve
till the expedition should terminate.
As this letter related to .that material transaction, and was a
part of the res gestce, it seems competent. Ridley v. Gyde, 9
Bingham, 349, 354; Hadley' v. Carter,. 8 N..Hamp. 40 ; Aiken
v. Bemis, 2 Woodb. & Minot.
It was also official correspondence of the commander in respect to official matters, and seems to hav.e been justifiable as
evidence on that account. 1 Greenleaf on Ev., sec. 491.
The other question relates to the propriety of excluding the
proceedings of a court-martial, which, after the return of Captain Wilkes, was convened, and acquitted him of this among
other charges.
We think that such proceedings were not conclusive on the
plaintiff here, though a bar to subsequent indictments in courts
of common law for the same offence, the parties then being the
same likewise, and the tribunal acquitting competent to examine "and acquit. Aspden et al. 'v.Nixon et al., 4 How.
467; Burnham v. Webster, 1 Woodb. & Minot, 172. And
though sometimes, yet questionably, they have been deen'd
a bar to civil suits 'for damages, where the plaintiff was the
prosecutor before the court-martial 'for that injury. Baller,
N. P. 19 ; Hannaford v. Hunn, 2 Carr. & Payne, 146, semble.

124.

-SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

But here the parties were not the same, nor the plaintiff a
complainant before the court-martial, and the courts of common
law have jurisdiction over the wrong, though committed at sea.
Warden v. Bailey, 4 Taunt. 70 -75; 1 MacArthur on CourtsMartial, 268; Wilson v. McKenzie, 7' Hill, 95; O'Brien on
Military Law, 223, semble; Luscomb v. Pfnce, 12 Mass. 579.
The remaining exceptions relate first to the leading question; whether the duty of service by the plaintiff had expired
when. the punishment for the disobedience of orders was inflicted.
It is conceded th'lr the term of his original enlistment for
four years had then terminated. But after that term commenced, in 1836, Congress passed a new law, March 2d, 1837,
which is supposed to reach a case of this kind, and to have
justified a contract of re6nlistment made by the plaintiff, -,'hich
extended, beyond the original term, and till after the punishment
complained-of. 5 Stat. at Large, 153.,
This new law, to be sure, §peaks in its title of the "enlistment of seamen" ; but in -thebody of it provision is made as to
the "service of any person enlisted for the navy."
It is enacted there, that it shall 'be lawful to enlist persons to
serve fQr five years, and a premium is given to such as ," shall
voluntarily reenlist to serve until the return of the vessels."
(See 3d section of act of March 2d, 1837.)
In the present instance, the Exploring Expedition having
been detained in this country by obstacles in the. preparations,
and a change in the commander, till it, became probable the
original terms of service of the siamen and marines would expire before the cruise ended, the Secretary of the Navy, in September, 1837, after the above act passed, and before the squad-)
Yon sailed, authorized a "bounty to the petty officers, seamen,
and marines," who would rerilist and engage to serve during
the term of the cruise. Thereupon many did so regnlist and
engage to serve, and among them the plaintiff, and the bounty
was paid to them all on so doing, in October, 1837.
The papers admitted to show this, though excepted to by the
plaintiff, we think entirely competent.
After this it would be very. difficult to hold that the plaintiff had not lcgally become liable to serve during the cruise,
instead of merely his original term of four -years. Because,
though marines are not, in some senses, "seamen," and their
dutiesare in some respects different, yet they are, while employed on board public vessels, persons in the naval service,
,persons subject to the orders of naval officers, persons under the government of the naval code as to punishment, and
Their very name
persons .amenable to the Navy.D partrdUi.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

:125

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

of "marines" indicates the place and nature of their duties
generally. And, beside the analogies of their duties in other
countries, their first creation here to serve on board 'ships expressly declared them to be a part "of the crews of each of
said ships." Act of 27th March, 1794, 1 Stat. at Large, 350,
sec. 4. Their pay was also to be fixed in'the same way as that
of the seamen. Sec. 6, p. 351.
So it was again by the act of April 27th, 1798. 1 Stat. at
Large, 552. And they have ever since been associated with
the -navy, except when specially detailed by the President for
service in the army. See Act of Congress, 11th July, 1798,
1 Stat. at Large, 595, 596.
Thus paid, thus serving, and thus governed like and with
the navy, it is certainly no forced construction to consider
them as embraced in the spirit of the act of 1837 by the description of persons "enlisted for the navy."
The reason of the law on such occasions for regnlistment
applies with as much force to them as to ordinary'seamen, because, when serving on board public vessels where their first
term seems likely to expire before the cruise ends, their services may, under the public necessities, be equally needed with
those of the seamen till the cruise ends; and hence, all of them
may rightfully redulist for the cruise, at any time, in anticipation of this.
Such was the construction put on this- section at the time
by the Navy Department and navy officers on board, by making proposals and paying a bounty to both marines and seamen
who would rednlist. - But what is calculated to remove any
doubts as to the justice of this 'View -is, that such was the -construction adopted by the plaintiff himself, and fully acquiesced
in by his conduct in voluntarily agreeing beforehand to regnlist
for the cruise, and receiving the bounty for it, and sailing
under that engagement.
He thus waived any doubt, and, proceeding to sea under such
new engagements supposed to be authorized by the act of
Congress, he would seem to be morally as well as legally
estopped to deny their validity, and the liabilities to duty,and
to punishment consequent upon them. Volenti nonfit injuria.
If, however, the legal right of the commandsr was imperfect
to require and enforce longer performance'of duty under the
engagements, there is another provision of the act of March,
1837, by which it seems quite clear that, without such voluntary regnlistment and engagement, the commander had
power to detainthe plaintiff after his original term expirea,
if, in his opinion, the public interest" reqtured it. In the
'153) it is ensecond section of the law (5 Stat. at La;
11"13

126

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes t. Dinsman.

acted, that, "when the .tithe of service of any person enlisted
for the navy shall expire while he is on board~any of the public vessels of the Unitedi States employed on foreign service,
it shall be the duty of the commanding officer to send'him to
the United States in some public or other vessel, unless his
detention' shall be essential to the public interests,'in which
case the saic, officer may detain. him until 'the Vessel in
which he may be serving shall return to the-United States."
&c., &c.
Now, considering the marines as embraed in the spirit, if
ndt.the exact letter, of this provision, for reasons heretofore
assigned, connected with its language and object, and their
position in conjunction with the navy, it would follow that
the commander, supposing the detention of the plaintiff on
board "-essential to the puiblic interests," could rightfully direct
him to remain ; and in the event he did so, as is averred here,
the third section of the act of 1837 provides that the plaintiff
should be "subject in all respects to. the laws and regulations
for the government of the navy, until "'his return to the United.
States. 5 Stat. at Large, 153.
There is still another statute, which, in our view of it, adds
more strength: to these conclusions. It is an act as early as
June 30th, 1834, (4 Stat. at Large, 713,) and by the second
section it provides as to the marine corps, "that the said corps
shall at all times be subject to and under the laws and regulations which are or may hereafter be established for the
better government of the navy," &c.
That corps thus, in
some respects, became. still more closely identified with the
navy. The term "the better government of the navy" need not
be restricted to mere punishment, or to courts-martial, but may
include any provision by law intended'to secure the safety of the.
crew and vessel, and insure due subordination and sound discipline in any exigency of the public service. The continuance
of all serving on board till the cruise ended was. afterwards
wisely provided for, when required "by the public interests."
The plaintiff was, therefore, bound to submit to it. He must
be pre'sumed to have known this provision before his new
contract of enlistment, and before he sailed, and indeed to
have known before his first enlistment-that he was to be subject to any new. laws which might be enacted for the better
government of- the navy, and hence that the defendant, after
the act of 183Z passed, could continue, under the public exigencies,-to require the performance of duty by him'" till the
cruise ended, and 'to pu-nish him when disobedient,-- if -not
overstepping the limits prescribed 'by the haval code, and the
usages consisteft therewith which prevail in maritime service.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

127

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

Nor was it competent for him to object to this detention, as
if retrospective in its operation, being authorized by an act
passed after his first enlistment, because before that enlistment,
Congress, June 30th, 1834, had enacted, as before cited, that
the marine corps should be subject to and under the lawsand regulations which are or may be hereafter established for
the better government of the navy.
Having thus ascertained that the defendant had further
jurisdiction over the plaintiff, and it being admitted that the
latter refused to perform his orders, and, in the language' of
the fourteenth article, that he disobeyed the lawful orders of
his superior officer (2 Stat. at Large, 47), and this on an important subject, and under circumstances likely to extend to
many more of the crew, and to end in mutiny or an abandonment of the expedition, if not suppressed with promptitude
and decisive energy, the next inquiry is whether the punishment was inflicted within the license of the law.
It is not the province of the judiciary to decide on the expediency or humanity of the law; but merely its existence and
the conformity or non-conformity to it by the defendant.
Where a private iff the navy, therefore, is guilty of any
"scandalous conduct," the commander is, by the third article
of the laws for the government of tile navy, authorized to
inflict on him twelve lashes, without the formality of a courtmartial. 2 Stat. at Large, 47.
If disobedience was not such conduct, but, under the fourteenth article, exposed the offender to severe punishment by a
court-martial, the plaintiff could hardly complain that it was
mitigated to only the twelve lashes which the captain was
authorized to inflict without calling such a court, by article
thirtieth, as wel- as article third, (Ibid., 49,) and. no more
stripes were given here for any one act of disobedience than
the third and thirtieth articles warrant.
Nor were they accompanied by any circumstance of unusual
severity or of cruelty, either in the manner or the instrument
employed. After an interval of two or three days, according
to the counts in the writ, as well as the proposed proof, and
after explanations and exhortations to duty, and time given
for reflection, followed by renewed disobedience, ihe samu
number of stripes was repeated, because deemed necessary in
order to enforce duty.
After another interval for like purposes, on a subsequent day,
upon a new refusal, the punishment was again inflicted, and
the plaintiff thereupon returned to duty.
If precedents were needed to justify this course, it has been
settled in a penal prosecution that a like act, when prohibited,

128

SUPREME COURT.
Wilkes

p.

Dinsnran.

if distinctly repeated, even on the same day, constitutes a
second offence, and incurs an additional penalty. Brooks qui
tam v. Milliken, 3 D. & E. 509.
Again, if this disobedience could'not be considered a technical offence under either of the articles already referred to, it
surely is an offence in nautical service, and one of much ma...
nitude at times, and the thirty-second article provides that all
crimes committed by persons belonging to the navy, which
are not specified in the foregoing articles, shall be punished
according to the laws and customs in such cases at sea. -2
Stat. at Large, 49.
In the discipline of the merchant service, where an act of
disobedience is persisted in, and endangers the due subordination of others, the captain is justified, not only in punishing
personally, but in resorting to any reasonable measures necessary to produce submission and safety. See Cobley v. Fuller,
2 Woodb. & Min., and cases there cited, and 9 Law Reporter,
386.
Under this portion of the inquiry arises also the question as
to the ruling about putting the plaintiff in irons, and about the
confine~ment of him on shore in a prison of the natives.
This appears to have been done under the same aspect of the
case, looking to the preservation of sound discipline, and the
safe imprisonment of the plaintiff till he consented to return to
his duties.
It appears that several other marines in the squadron were
taking like insubordinate ground with the plaintiff, and that
.the escape of two prisoners confined on board had already been
allowed; that many more appeared anxious to quit the vessels,
doubtless under the seductive attractions of the islands near ;
that several of the officers and med were engaged at a distance
in making scientific observations; and that, under such circumstances, a confinement of the plaintiff on shore for a few days
might be a prudent precaution to prevent a defeat of the chief
objects of the expedition.
This, therefore, without proof of malice, is not actionable, nor
does it amount to putting a seamatl. on shore in a foreign
country to'desert him there, contrary to the act of Congress, as
that must be done maliciously, and then is properly punishable by statute, no less than on principles of admiralty law. (4
Statutes at Large, 117, see. 10; Abbott on Shipping. 177; Jay
v. Allen, 1 Woodb. & Min. 268; United States v. Netcher, 1
Story, 307.) "But if it was only to imprison him there for a
few days, and, under all the circumstances, was considered by
the defendant to be with more propriety and safety than in the
squadron, it was justifiable, unless accompanied by malice.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

129

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

(The William Harris, Ware, 367, and The Nimrod, ib. 9 ; Wilson v. The Mary, Gilpin, 31; 3 Kent, Com. 182.)
As to the cleanliness of the prison, the healthfulness of the
food, and the general treatment while there, the evidence is
contradictory, and is not now a matter for our decision.
The only remaining consideration, in order to dispose of all
which is left in any of the exceptions, is the competency of
the commander to decide on these various questions without
being amenable to the plaintiff in an action at law for any
mere error of judgment in the exercise of his discretion,. which
may have-been involuntarily committed under the exigencies
of the moment.
. In order to settle this point correctly, it being in itself a very
important one, as well as running through several of the exceptions, it will be,necessary to advert to the circumstances, that
Captain Wilkes was not acting here in a private capacity and
for private purposes; but, on the contrary, the kesponsible
duties he was performing were imposed on him by the government as a public officer. In the next place, those duties
were not voluntarily sought or assumed, but met and discharged in the routine of his honorable and gallant profession,
and under high responsibilities for any omission or neglect on
his part, instead of being a volunteer, as in most of the cases
of collectors and sheriffs made liable. (2 Strange, 820; 6
D. & E. 443.) Now, in respect to those compulsory duties,
whether in regnlisting or detaining on board, or punishing or
imprisoning on shore, while arduously endeavouring to perform them in such a manner as *might advance the science and
commerce and glory of his country, rather than his own personal designs, a"public officer, invested with certain discretionary powers, never has been, and never should .be, made
answerable for any injury, when acting within'the scope of his
authority, and not influenced by malice, corruption, or cruelty.
(See the cases hereafter cited.)
Nor can a mandamus issue to such an officer, if he is intrusted with discretion over 'the subject-matter.. (Paulding v.
Decatur, 14 Peters, 497; Brashear v. Mason, 6 How. 102.)
His position, in such case, in many respects, becomes quasi
judicial, and is not ministerial, as in: several other cases of'liabiity by mere ministerial officers. 11 Johns. 108; Kendall v.
United States, 12 Peters, 516 ; Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Peters,
516., And it is well settled that "all judicial officers, when
acting on subjects within their jurisdiction, are exempted from
civil prosecution for their acts." (Evans v. Foster, 2 N. Hamp,
-37t; 14 Peters, 600, App.)
Especially is it proper, not only that a public officer, situated

130

SUI REME COURT.
Wilkes v. Dinsman.

like the defendant, be invested with a wide discretion, but be
upheld in it, when honestly exercising, and not transcending,
it as to discipline in such remote places, on such a long and
dangerous cruise, among such savage islands and oceans, and
with the safety of so many lives and the respectability and
honor of his country's flag in charge.
In such a critical position, his reasons for action, one way or
another, are often the fruits of his own observation, and not
susceptible of technical proof on his part. No review of his
decisions, if within his jurisdiction, is conferred by law on
either courts, or juries, or subordinates, and, as this court held
in another case, it sometimes happens that "a prompt and unhesitating obedience to orders is indispensable to the complete
attainment of the object." "While subordinate officers or
soldiers are pausing to consider whether they ought to obey, or
are scrupulously weighing the evidence of the fact upon which
-the commander-in-chief exercises the right to demand .their
services, the hostile enterprise may be accomplished without
the means of resistance." 12 Wheaton, 30.
Hence, -while an officer acts within the limits of that discretion, thWe same law which gives it to him will protect him in the
exercise of it. But for acts beyond his ju4risdiction, or attended
by circumstances of excessive severity, arising from ill-will, a
depraved 'disposition, or vindictive feeling, he can claim no
exemption, and should be allowed none under color of his office,
however elevated or however -humble the victim. (2 Carr. &
Payne, 158, note; 4 Taunton, 67.)
When not offending under such circumstances, his justification does not rest on the general ground of vindicating a trespass in private life, and between those not acting officially
and not with a discretion. Because then, acts of violence
being first proved, the person using them must go forward next,
and show the moderation or justification of the blows used. (2
Greenleaf on Ev., sec. 99.)
The chief mistake below-was in looking only to such cases
as a guide. For the justificaion r sts here on a rule of law
entirely different, though well settled, and is, that the acts of a
public officer on public matters, within his jurisdiction, and
where he has a discretion, are to be presumed legal, till shown
by others to be unjustifiable. (Gidley v. Palmerston, 7 Moore,
111 ; Vanderheyden v. Young, 11 Johns. 150 ; 6 Har. & Johns.
329; Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheaton, 31.)
This, too, is not, on the principle merely that innocence and
doing right are to be presumed, till the contrary is shown. (1
Greenil., sec. 35-37.)
But that the officer, being-intrusted with a discretion for public purposes, is not to be punished

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

131

Wilkes v. Dinsman.

for the exercise of it, unless it is first proved against him, either
that he exercised the power confided in cases without his jurisdiction, or in a. manner not confided to him, as with malice,
cruelty, or wilful oppression, or, in the words of Lord Mansfield,
in Wall v. McNamara, that he exercised it as "if the heart is
wrong." (2 Carr. & Payne, 158, note.) In short, it is not
enough to show he committed an error in judgment-, but it
must have been a malicious and wilful error. Harman v. Tappenden et *al., 1 East, 562, 565, note.
It may not be without some benefit, in a case of so much interest as this, to refer a moment further to one or two particular precedents in England and this country, and even in this
court, in illustration of the soundness of these positions.
Thus in Drewe v. Coulton, 1 East, 562, note, which was an
action against the defendant, who was a public returning offiier, for refusing a vote, Wilson, J. says: -- " This is, in the nature of it, an action for misbehaviour by a public officer in his
duty. Now, I think that it cannot be called misbehaviour unless maliciously and wilfully done, and that the action will not
lie for a mistake in law." "By wilful I uaderstand contrary
to a man's own conviction."
"In very few instances is an officer answerable for what he
does to the best of his judgment in cases where he is compellable to act, but the action lies where the officer has an option
whether he will act or no."2 (See these last cases collected in
Seaman v. Patten, 2 Caines, 313, 315.)
In a case in this country, Jenkins v. Waldron, 11 Johns. 121,
Spencer, J. says, for the whole court, on a state of facts much
like the case in East: - " It would, in our opinion, be opposed
to all the principles of law, justice, and sound policy, to hold
that officeis called upon to exercise their deliberate judgments
are answerable for a mistake in law, either civilly or criminally,
when their motives are pure, and untainted with fraud or malice." Similar views were again expressed by the same court
in the same volume, (p. 160,) in Yanderheyden v. Young.
And in a like case, the Supreme Court of New Hampshire reIt is true," said the chief justice for
cognized a like principle.
the court, "that moderators may decide wrongly with the best
intentions, and then the party will be without remedy. And
so may a court and jury decide wrongly, and then the party
will also be without remedy." But there is no liability in such
case without malice alleged and proved. Wheeler v. Patterson, 1 N. Hamp. 90.
Finally, in this court, like views were expressed, through
" WhenJustice Story, in Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 3:ever a statute gives a discretionary power to any person, to be
C,

132

SUPREME COURT.
Patton et al. v. Taylor et al.

exercised by him, upon his own opinion of certain facts, it is
a sound rule of construction that the statutes constitute him
the sole and exclusive judge of the existence of these-facts."
"Every public officer is presumed to act in obedience to his
duty, until the contrary is shown."
Under these. established principles and precedents, it will be
seen that the rulings below must be held erroneous whenever
the court departed from them, and required the defendant, as"
on several occasions, to go, forward, and in the first- instance to
prove details rebutting any error or excess.
As, for illustration, to prove in the outset facts showing a
necessity to detain the plaintiff, before the latter had offered any
evidenc6 it was done from malice or without cause; or to prove
that the prison on shore. *ias safer and more'suitable for the

plaintiff's confinement than the vessels, under the peculiar circumstances then existing, until the plaintiff. had first shown
that no discretion existed in the defendant to place him there,
or that he did-it mald fide, or for purposes of cruelty and oppression; or to prove ti at the punishihent inflicted was not-,immoderate, and not unceasonable, when it is admitted to have
been within the limits of his discrjetion, as confided to him by
the articles for the government of the navy. On the contrary,
as has been shown, all his acts within the limits of the discretion given to him are to be regarded as rima facie right till
the opposite party disprove this presumption.
The judgment below must therefore be reversed, and a
venire de nova awarded, and the new trial be governed by the
principles here decided.

HUGH M.
OTHERS,

PATTON, ADMINISTRATOR, AND HUGH M. PATTON AND
HEIRS or ROBERT PATTON, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V.
JAMES TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATOR, AND JAiiES TAYLOR, JOHN W.
TIBBATTS AND ANN W. HIS WIFE, GEORGE T. WILLIAMSON AND
JANE M. HIS WIFE, AND HORATIO T. HARRIS AND KETURAH L.
HIS WIE, HEIRS (OFJAMES TAYLOR, DECEASED.

A bill in chancery filed by the purchaser-of land against his vendor, to restrain the
collection of the pnrchase-monev, upon the two grdunds of want of title in the
vendor and his subsequent insol ency, without charging fraud or misrepresentation, cannot be sustained.
Belief wi!tnot be given on the ground of fraud, unless it be made a distinct allegation
in the bill, so that it may be put in issue in the pleadings.
It was error in the court below to reject the testimony of an attorney upon the
ground of his being security for costs, when the party for whom he was security
had already obtained a judgment against his adversary, and also upon the ground

of his being intei~ested when he held certain notes only. for the purpose of paylAg
.the money over to his clients, when recovered.

