260

SUPREME COURT.
Matheson et al. v. The Branch Bagk of Mobile.

We are all of opinion, therefore, that the lapse of time in
the present case is a complete bar to the relief sought, and that
the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill should be
affirmed, with costs.
Order,
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree bf the said Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is .ereby affirmed. with costs.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY did not sit in this cause.

MARIA MATHESON, JOHN DA RINGTON, ROBERT D. JAxES, BiLLUpS
GAYLE, JOHN GAYLE, AND EDWARD M. WARE, .PLAINTIFFS' IN ERRoE, v. THE BRANCH OF THE BAtiq
OF THE STATE OF ALAzAxA
AT MOBILE, DEFENDANTS.
Where the highest.court of a State affirmed the judgment of a court below, because
no transcript of the record was filed in the appellate court, such affirmance cannot be reviewed by this court under the twenty-fifth secti6n of the Judiciary Act.
Tie intention of the parties to' raise a constitutional qtiestion is not enough. It
must be actually raised and decided in the highest coirt of the State.

THis case wag brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error, issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
In. 1845, the Branch Bank of Mobile obtained a judgment
in the Circuit Court of 'Mobile county (State court) against
Maria Matheson, John Darrington, artd Robert D. James, for
the sum of ten thousand five hundred and seventy-three.dollars and- eighty-two cents.
On the 29th of May, 184"6, the defendants sued out a writof error,.retur'nable to December term, 1846, of the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama. Billups Gayle, John Gayle,
and Edward M. Ware became their securities upon the appeal
bond..
Of the 224 of January, 1847, being a day of the December
term, 1846, the counsel of- the Branch Bank filed a certificate
of the clerk of the court below, stating the judgment and
writ of error; when it appearing that no transcript of the record was filed, the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

261

Matheson et al. v. The Branch Bank of Mobile.,

affirmed the judgment of the court below, and also entered up
judgment against the securities in the appealbond.
In April, 1847, the defendants sued out a writ of error,. and
brought the case up to this court.
Mr. Inge, counsel for the defendants in error, moved to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction, apparent upon the record, which molion was resisted by Mr. Gayle, counsel for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The record in this case is a very brief one. It states that a
certificate was filed in the clerk's office of the Supreme Court
of the State of Alabama, from the clerk of the Circuit Court for
Mobile county, setting: forth that a judgment had been obtained
in that court by the 1bank against the plaintiffs in error for the
sum of $ 10,573.82 ad costs, from which judgment they had
presented a writ of error to the Supreme Court; and that this
certificate having been produced in the Supreme Court by the
attorney for the bank, and the transcript of the record in the
Circuit Court not having been filed, the writ of error was thereupon dismissed, and the judgment of the Circuit Court affirmed.
It is upon this judgment that the writ of error has been presented to this court.
It appears from the argument against the motion, that the
question intended to be raised here is whether the acts of the
State of Alabama creating a bank and branches are not in violation of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution
of the United States, which declares that "no State shall emit
bills of credit."
But in order to bring that question before this court, it should
have been raised in the Supreme Court of the State, and have
been there decided. There are many cases in the reports in
which this court have so ruled. In this case the Supreme
Court of the State dismissed the writ of error to the Circuit
Court, and affirmed its judgment, because the plaintiffs in error
had not filed a transcript of the record; and no question as to
any matter of right in "contest in the suit was raised or decided.
There is nothing, therefore, in the record which this court is
authorized to review, and the writ of error must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, and it appearing to the court upon an inspection of the said transcript that

262

SU.PREMEf

COURT.

McArthur's -Heirs v. Dun's Heirs.

there is nothing in the record which this court is authorized to
review, it is thereupon pow here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

Dui' cA

McARTnRs's HEIns, COMxP.&NANTS, V. W.aLTmR DuNls HEIRs.

The proviso in the second section of the act passed on the 1st of March, 1823 (3
.Statutes at Large, 7.73), entitled, "An act fbr extending the time for locatin
Virginia military land-wrants and returning surveys thereon t6 the Gene

,and Office," - which proviso is as follows, viz. "Provided, that no locations, as
aforesaid, in virtue of this or the preceding section of this act; shall be made on
tracts of lands for which patents -had previously been issued, or which had been
previously surveyed; and any patent which may nevertheless be obtained for land
located contrary to the provisions of this act shall be considered null and void"protected an entry which had been made in the name of a dead man in 1822.
And a subsequent conflicting entry came within the prohibition of the statute, and
was therefore void.
The cases of Gait v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 345; McDonald's Heirs v. Smalley,6 Peters,
* 261; Jackson v. Clarke, I Peters, 628; Taylor's Lessee . Myers,

Wheat. 23;

and Galloway v. Finley, 12 Peters, 264, reviewed.

Tnis c*ase came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, on a certificate %ofdivision in
opinion between the judges thereof.
It was before this court at January term, 1842, and was then
remanded to the Circuit Court, upon the ground that a material
error had boen committed by the clerk in stating the point intended to be certified. It now came back with the error corrected.
It was, originally, a bill filed on the' equity side of the Circuit Court by Dun against McArthur, in which the same matters of controversy were involved as in the present case. Dun
obtained a-decree against McArthur in 1836.
In 1838, McArthur filed the present bill of review. The
following table presents a view of their conflicting titles to the
land in question:
McArthur's Title.
-Dun's Title.
1822, Nov. 23. Entry in the
name of Means, who
was dead.
1823, March 1. Act of Congress -passed.
1823, March 18. Survey.
1824, Dec. 10. Entry by Galoway.
1824, Dec. 15.
Survey.
1825, Jan. 3. Patent.
1825W, April 4.
Patent.

