SANUARY TRAM, 1849.

681

Jones v. Thi United States.

decree, the chief jdstice,,in vacation, is further and generally
authorized to make- stfch orders and give such instructions as
this court could do when in session. Copies of all orders -and
instructions'and acts done in the premises by thq chief justice
shill be filed by the clerk of this court,. together with the petitions, papers, and documents on which they are founded. And
reports of the commissioners, if made in vacation, shall be filed
with the clerk also, for safe-keeping thereof, until presented in
open court for its action thereon.
'And it is further ordered and adjud.ged, that the costs of this
suit, including the original billk cross-bill, and the proceedings
thereon, and all costs incident'to establishing and marking the
dividing line, and all other costs and charges of every description, shall be paid by the States of Iowa and Missouri equally,
In the case of Missouri v. Iowa, and of Iowa v. Missouri, in the
Supreme-Cotrt of the United States:
Having received information of the death of Joseph C. Brown,
one of the commissioners appointed by the decree of the Supreme
Court in the above-mentioned cases to run and mark the boundary-line between the' States ofMiss6uri aid Iowa, I hereby, pursuant to the duty enjoined upon me by the said decree, appoint
Robert W. Wells, of the State of Missouri,, a commissioner for
the purposes aforesaid, in the place of'the said Joseph C. Brown,
deceased.
R. B. TANEY,.

:C ief Justice of Supreme Court of U. S.

Baltimore, April 6, 1849.

THoMAs AP

CATEsBY JoNEs,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
STATES.

THE

UNITED

Where a runnilg account is kept at the Post-Office Departmentbetwien thd United

States and a postmaster, in hich all postages are charged to him, and credit is
given for all payments made, this amounts to an election by the creditor to apply

the payments, as they are successively made, to the extinguishment of preceding
balmnces.
This the creditor has a right to do in the absence of instructions from the debtor.
The English deciiions and those of this court examined.
The act of Coigress of 1825 (4 Stat. at Large, 102), which exonerates the sureties if
balances are not sued for within two years after they occur, does not apply to this
case, because, by this mode of keeping the account, the balance due from the postmaster is thrown upon the last quarter.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia.
It was a suit brought by the United States upon a postmaster's bond against Walter F. Jones (the postmaster at Norfolk, in Virginia), and Thomas Ap Catesby Jones and Duncan

SUPREME COURT.

682

Jones v. The United States.

Robertson, his sureties. Judgment went by default against the
postmaster and Robertson.
'The act of Congress upon which the defence rested was the
following, viz.: The act of the 3d Match, 1825; (4 Statutes at'Large, 102,)
is entitled "An act to reduce into one the several acts for
establishing and regulating.the Post-Office Department," and in
its third section enacts, "That it shall be the duty of the Postinaster-General, upon
the appointment of any postmaster, to require and take of such
postmaster bond, with good and approved security, in such penalty as he may judge sufficient, conditioned for the faithful discharge of all the duties of such-postmaster required by law, or
which may be required by any instruction or general rule for
the government of the Department: Provided, however, Thtt
if default shall be madd by the postmaster aforesaid, at any
time,- and the Postmaster-Generql shall fail to' institute suit
against such postmaster and said sureties for, t~wo years from
and after such default shall be made, then and in that case the
said sureties-shall not be liable to the United States,. nor shall
suit be instituted against them."
Jones was postmaster, from 1830 to August, 1839, during
which time a running account was kept up with him at the
Post-Office Department, with, only one rest, namely, in August,
1836, when the account was added up and a balance transferred'
to a new account. The following is the debit side of the
account.
-$345 50

.
To balance transferred from old account,
To balances due the United States on his quarterly returns as postmaster,' viz.: From July 1 to Sept. 30,:1836,
"

"
"
"

"
Oct. 1 " Dec. 31,
Jan. 1 " March 31, 1837,
April1 " June 30, "
July 1 " Sept. 30, "
Oct. 1 " Dec. 31: "-

Jan. 1
"

April 1
JJuly 1
Oct. 1

"

Jan. 1
April 1

"

"
"
"
"
"

March 31, 1838,
June 30, "
Sept.
Dec.
March
April

30, " 31, "
31, 1839,
"
3,

.
.

2,073 77
2,488
2,746
2,634
2,187
2,298

.

•

16
04
93
79
13

2,450 65
.

.

.

..

2,422
2,233
2,618
2,8 9
- 53

47
48
26
6,0
11

$27,381 89
To balance,

.

To interest from August,. 1839, to.

5,515 89

JANUARY TERM,'1849.

683

Jones, v. The United States.

The credit side of the 4cdount ran on continuously as in the
following, which is the conclusion of the account :1838.

By'a mount brought over,
4, By draft*No. 8448,
cc
4, -c
cc
" 8452,
cc 1 , cc cc
8455,
cc
4, cc
c
" 8465,
"
15 cc 8745,
cc
15 2 cc c
" 8746,
cc .173-,4
c C
11 8768;
" - 31, cc cc " 8967, . cc 31, "
"
" 8968,
1839.
C 9100;
Jan
19,
"
"9792,
Feb. 19,
"
cc
20, 1
c 9801,
"
March 13, 91 cc (c 271,
c
13 cc cc cc 274,
Aug. 31, "c"cash,
Balance, -

S$

Dec.

.

18;198. .64
62 54
42 94
77 19.
98 57
50 26
43 64
132 79
88 52
206 48

45 00
750 00
863 29"
46 04
-.
38 56
1,121 94

5,515 89

$27,381 89
The substance of the pleadings in the court below, and the
prayers of the respective counsel, are given in the opinion of
this court, and need not be here repeated.
It was argued by Mr. Walter Jones, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Toucey (Attorney-General), for the United States.
Mr. Jones contended, that although no quarterly balances
were struck, yet an analysis ,of the account would show that
the postmaster was in default'continually.
Thus, on the 30th of September, 1836, (the end of the first
quarter after the date of the bohd,) the balance against him
was

$1,894

27

On the 31st December, 1836, it was
1,793 43
On the 31st Match, 1837, it was
3,027 47
On the 30th June, 1837, it was
3,866 40
On the 30th September, 1837, it was
-..
6,020 84
On the 31st December, 1837,;it was
5,446 18
On the 31st March, 1838, it was .
3,509 70
On the 30th June,, 1838, it was
.
.3,937 98
On the 30th September, 1838, it was
4,530 05
On the 31st December, 1838, it was
5,297 61
And on the 31st March, 1839, it was
6,384 32
The sureties were therefore discharged under the operation
of the act of Congress above recited.
.

684

SUPB.EME COURT.
Jones v. The United Stat es.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion'of -the court.
The case in the Circpit Court was an actioh of debt, instituted to recover the amount of a default claimed by the UnitedStates of Walter F. Jones, as postmaster of the Borough of
Norfolk, in the State of Virginia. The said Walter F. Jones,
having been appointed postmaster of Norfolk, executed, on the
8th day of August, in the year 1836, his bond, with the
plaintiff in error and one Duncan Robertson as. his sureties, in
the penalty of ten thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of his office. In the year 1839, Walter
F. Jones was removed from office, the United States claiming
against him a balance of $ 5,515.89 as due from him on the
31st of August- in the year last mentioned; -and to recover this
balance, the action on his official bond was instituted in the
Circuit Court against him and his sureties. After the institution of the suit, it was abated as to Walter F. Jones by his
death.; Robertson made default in the case, and as t6 him a
writ of inquiry of damages was executed; the plaintiff in errgr
alone appeared and made defence, upon four several pleas, as t6
each of which-replication and issue were taken. The first plea
interposed was that of condition performed generally. The
second and third pleas, presenting substantially the same defence, rely. upon the act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1825,
entitled "An act to reduce into one the several acts establishihg
and regulating the Post-Office Department," and pxticularly
upon that -portion of the act which prescribes that .the Postmaster-General shall obtain from the, postmasters their accounts and vouchers for their receipts and expenditures once in
three months, or oftener, with the balances therein arising in
favor of the' General Post-Office; and that, if any postmaster,
or other person authorized to receive the postage of letter# &c.,
shall neglect or refuse to render his accounts, and pay over to
the Postmaster-General the balance due by him at the end.of
every three months, it shall be the duty of the PostmasterGeneral to cause a suit to be commenced against the person so
neglecting or refusing; and if default be made by the postmaster at any time, and the Postmaster-General shall fail to institute suit against such postmaster and sureties.within two
years after such default shill be made, then-and in that case the
said sureties shall not be held liable to the United States, nor
shall suit be instituted against'them. These pleas further aver,
that, subsequently to the execution of the bond of Walter F.
Jones on the 8th of August, 1636, and during the year 1837,
sundry defaults were made by him in failing to pay over money
received by him as postmaster, and that these defaults were
permitted to remain unclaimed by suit up to the 12th of March,

JANUARY TERA4 1849.

685

"Jones v. The United States.

1840, the period at which this suit was instituted ; a length. of
time from 'the. occurrence of those defaults comprising an interval of more.than two years.
The fourth plea. of the defendant below is simply a general
averment, that the causes of action in the declaration meition6d did not occur within two years next before the institution of the suit.
. Thl only evidence adduced~in this case,- on behalf of the
plaint s below, was the account' certified under the act of
Congress from the Treasury Department against the postmaster, brought down to 'the 31st of August, 1839, exhibiting
a balance in favor of the United States, at that date, of
$ 5,515.89; and all the evidence on behalf of the defendant
was a letter to him from the Postmaster-General, dated on the
19th of December, 1837, announcing tle fact, that a drafthad
been drawn on the defendant infavor of the Treasury Department, for the sum of $ 5,000 in specie, and requesting the
deposit of that sum with the Bank of Virginia, at Richmond,
as the agent for the treasury. Upon the aforegoing pleadings
and evidence, the .following prayers were made, and .instructions given at the trial.
The attorney for the United States moved the court to instruct the jury, "that' all payments made by the. postmaster,
Walter F. Jones, to the General Post-Office, after the execution of his official bond, on the 8th of August, 1836, and subsequently to any default at the end of a quarter, without any
direction by him or by the Postmaster-Gendral as to*the application of said payments, should be applied in thq first ingtance
to extinguish each successive default in the order in which it
fell due; and if, by'such application of said payments, the jury
shall believe from the evidence that all of the defaults. which
occurred two .years before the institution of this suit were extinguished within, two years after .the same were respectively
committed, that the act of Congress; which limits the institution of suits against the sureties of a postmaster to two years
after the default of the principal, has no application to this
case, and cannot affect in any degree the plaintiffs' right' .to
recover in this action."
And 'the counsel for the defendant moved this court to instruct the jury,
1"
1st. That if the jury shall find that the said
deputy postmaster, Walter F. Jones, committed any default or
defaults in office at any time or times more than two years
before the commencement of this suit, and that such default or
defaults were then known to the Postmaster-General; and,
further, that the said deputy postmaster continued in default
to an equal or greater amount thenceforth, until he was di4-VoL. vu.
58

686

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. The United States.

charged from office; that the Postmaster-General failedto institute, or cause to be instituted, a suit against the said deputy.
postmaster and his sureties for two years from and after such
default or defaults were made, - then the defendant, Thomas
Ap Catesby Jones, one of the sureties of the said deputy postmaster, is not liable to the United States, nor can any suit be
maintained against him on the official bond of the said deputy
postmaster, wherein the defendant was bound as -one of the
sureties for any default or defaults committed by the said
deputy postmaster.
"2d. That as this suit was commenced'on the 12th of March,
1840, the jury should inquire whether any default was committed by the said deputy postmaster, Walter F: Jones, in not
duly paying over any balance or balances of money which became due froi him on account of collections by him officially
made before the end of the quarter next preceding the 12th of
March, 1838, namely, the quarter ending on the 31st of December, 1837.. And if the jury shall find that the said deputy
postmaster was so in default in not duly paying over such
balances or balance due from him on account of collections by
-him officially made before the end of the quarter ending the
31st of December, 1837, and that such default was then known
to the Postmaster-General, then they should apply, towards
the discharge of such balances or balance, all such payments
made by the said deputy postmaster during his continuance in
office subsequently to the 31st of December, 1837, as they
shall find to have been made out of moneys officially collected
by him before that date, or out of his private funds; and they
should apply all other payments made by him after that date,
and during his continuance in office, towards the discharge of
the balances or balance which became due from him on account of moneys by him officially collected after the 31st of
December, 1837, during his continuance in office.
"3d. And that, as to the payment of $ 1,.121.54, which
was made by the said deputy postmaster after he, was discharged from -his office, the jury should inquire -whether that
payment was made by him out of moneys remaining in his
hands on account of collections officially, made by him before
the 31st of December, 1837, or out of his own private funds;
or whether that payment was made out of moneys officially
collected by him during his continuance in-office subsequently
to the 31st of December, 1837; and if the jury shall find that
that payment was made, and of moneys remaining in his hands
of collections by him officially made prior to the 31st of December, 1837, or out of his own private funds, then the jury
should apply that payment towards the discharge of the bal-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

687

Jones v. The United States.

ance which was due from him on the 31st of December, 1837;
but if the jury shall find that that payment of $ 1,121.54 was
made by the said deputy postmaster out of money officially
collected by him during his continuance in office subsequently
to the 31st of December, 1837, then they should apply the
said payment towards the balance that accrued and became
due from him on account of moneys officially collected by him
during his continuance in office subsequently to the 31st of
December, 1837."
" Whereupon, the court gave the -said instruction prayed by
the attorney for the United States, and refused to give the said
instructions prayed by the counsel for the defendant; to which
opinion of the court the defehdant by his consel excepted,
and prayed the court to sign and seal this bill of exceptions,
which is done accordingly."
The jury found a verdict for the United States, assessing
their damages to the sum of $ 4,387.09, with interdst thereon
from the, 31st day of August, 1839, till payment; and upon
this verdict a judgment was entered for the sum of $10,000,
the penalty of the bond, to be discharged by the damages and
interest by the jury assessed, and the costs of suit.
It is apparent that the only qiiestion of law raised in this
cause is the question of an appropriatiog of payments by
debtor and creditor, it being insisted, in behalf of the United
States, and being so ruled by the court below, that when, at
the end of a quarter, there might be a default on the part 6f a
postmaster, it was competent for him to supply such default,
or to extinguish the debt then due from him, by payments
made posterior to the end of the quarter; and that, in the
event of an omission by the postmaster to appropriate the
payments so made by him, it was the right of the government
to apply them at its discretion to the extinguishment of previous balances; and that if, by such application, all defaults
occurring within two years previously to the institution of the
suit hd been extinguished, the act of Congress did not affect
the plaintiff's right of recovery.
On behalf of the defendants below, it is insisted that the
receipts by the postmaster, within a given quarter, should be
applied, exclusively or primarily, to the debt due from the
postmaster for that quarter ; and that, if there should have existed any balances for previous quarters, these should .not be
eKtinguished by subsequent receipts; and that, if permitted to
remain for the space of two years without- being claimed (as
such balances) by suit on the part of the government, the
omission should operate a complete exoneration of the sureties.
With respect to the position contended for as above, it may be

6%8

SUPRIEME COURT
Jones v. The United States.

remarked, that a construction of the act of Congress which, in
numerous instances, would interpose -in the way of a debtor
obstructions to the voluntary payment of his own debt, and
compel the creditor to resort to ' reluctant, dilatory, and expensive litigation for its recovery, would never "be adopted
except under the influence of some controlling -principle or necessity, rendering such a proceeding unavoidable ;. and 'no such
principle or necessity' can be perceived ,whiere a creditor is
willing to receive his money, the debtor is willing to pay it,
and the surety assents to, or acquiesces in, the payment. We
cannot therefore approve an interpretation of the act of Congress like that assumed in the defence, tvhich would require,
that quarteily balances should at all events, and in oppositionto the will of the parties, justly inferred from their conduct,
-remain open and unsatisfied, to become the subjects.of future
contest.
Upon the question of the appropriation of payments, some
diversity, and even contrariety, may be found in the doctrines of the courts; yet nothing of the kind, it is thought, can: be.
deduced -from them which should embarrass the adjudication
in this case. In the general proposition- upon this subject, all
the courts agree. It is this: - " That the party paying may
direct to what the application is to .be made. If he waives his
right, the party.receiving mayselect the object of appropriation.
If both are silent, the law. must decide." With the third
branch of.this proposition, the most fruitful of uncertainty.and
embarrassment, namely, the decision which the law would -make in the silence or entire forbearance of the parties, .we are here
not particularly called on to deal, the subject here being more
- immediately the right of tho creditor to-make an appropriation
of payments, and the limitations upon that power resulting
.from the delay or lapse of time, from the character, of the
.transictions between the debtor and creditor, and the rights of
third persons which may be affected by those transactions. In
- instances of official bonds executed by the principal at different
times' with- sejiarate and distinct sets of sureties, this court has
settled the law to be, that the responsibility of the separate
gets of sureties must have reference to, and be limited by, the
periods for which they respectively undertake by their contract,. and that neither the misfeasance nor nonfeasance of.the
principal, nor any cause of -responsibility occurring, within the
period for which one set of sureties have undertaken, can be
transferred -to, the.'period for which alone another" set have
made themselves answerable. Such -isthe rule established
in the cases of The United States v. January and Patterson, 7
Cranch, 572, and of The United States v. Eckford's Executors,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

689

Jones v. The United States.

1 How. 250. The case before us is free from any embarrassment of conflicting interests between separate sets of sureties.
In this case there is but one bond; it presents the instance of
an appropriation of payments between a single debtor and creditor. Upon the question, as understood in this form and with
this limitation, there is not a perfecf uniformity in the -decisions
either in England or in this country. The opinion of Sir William Grant in Clayton's case, 1 Merivale, pp. 604 et-seq., has
often been referred toas a high authority in favor of the re.striction of the right of the creditor to make the application to
the exact period of time at which the payment was made.
A close examination of the opinion of this able judge, however
it may show the inclination of his mind on this subject,
can hardly be received as an express adjudication upon the
point in support of which it is adduced. In Clayton's case- page
605, speaking of the right of appropriation in the creditor in the
absence of express direction, Sir Wm. Grant says: - " There is
certainlya great deal of authority for this doctrine; with some
shades of distinction, it is sanctioned by the- cases of Goddard
v. Cox, 2 Strange, 1194; of Wilkinson v. Sterne, 9 Mod. 427;
of Newmarch v. Clay, 14 East, 239; and of Peters v. Anderson,
There are, however, other
5 Taunt. 596." He proceeds: -"
cases, which are irreconcilable with this indefinite right o election in the creditor, and which seem, on the contrary, to imply
a recognition of the civil law principle of decision. Suich are,
in particular, the cases of Meggott v. Mills, 1 Ld. Raym. 287,
and Dowe v. Holdwofth, Peake's N. P. 64. The cases then
set up two conflicting rules,- the presumed intention of the
debtor, which, in some instances at least, is to govern, and1 the
ex postfacto election of the creditor, which, in other instances,
is tb prevail. I should therefore feel myself a good deal embarrassed, if the general question of the creditor's right to make
the application of indefinite payments were now necessarily to
be determined." But I think the present case is distinguishable
from any of those in which that point has been decided in the
.creditor's favor." 'Again, on page 609, we find the following
statement from this same judge, namely, that the creditor received his account drawn out by his debtor, the banker who
-kept the account, and made no 'bjection to it whatever, and the
master stated in his report that the silence of the customer (the
creditor), after the receipt of his banking account, is regarded as
an admission of its being correct, "Both creditor and debtor
must therefore," .says the judge, "be considered as having concurred in the appropriatibn." This case has been adverted to
somewhat at length, although it is often referred to ashigh
and express authority, with the view of showing that it does
58*

.690

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. The United States.

not adjudge diredtly the point of the creditor's discretion in the
appropriation of payments, hovever strongly -it may intimate
the inclination of the Master of the Rolls as to that question.
Later decisions in the English courtg would seem to be wholly
irreconcilable with the remarks of Sir William Grant.in Clayton's case. Thus, in Simpson v. Ingham, decided in 1823,' and
reported in 2 Barn. & Cres. 65, Bayley, Justice, speaking of the
right of creditors to appropriate payments, uses this language :
99"It has been insisted, that, at that period of time, they had
no right so.to do, because they were precluded by the entries
which they had already made in their own books in the intermediate space of time. If, indeed, a book hadbeen kept for the
common use of both parties as a pass-book, and that had been
communicated to the opposite party, then the party making
such entries would have been precluded from altering the
account; but entries made by a man for his own private purposes are not conclusive on him until he has made a communication on the subject of those entries to the opposite party.,
Until that time, he has the right to apply the payments as he
thinks fit."1 Holroyd, Justice, in thd same case, says : -"
The
persons paying the money not having made iny direct application of it, the right of making such application devolved' on the
receivers; and if they have done no act which can be considered as such an application, it is equally. clear, that,, although
they did not apply it at the moment of payment, they would
have the right to make the application at a subsequent period.
The question therefore "is, whether, from any entry in the
books, there appears to have been a complete election by them
to apply the payments in any other way than they are applied
in the accounts which have been actually deliirered. Now,
these entries not having been communicated to the opposite.
party, it seems to me. that the election was not complete. The
effect of making the entries in their own private books shows
only that the 'idea of so applying the payment had passed in
their own minds. It is much the same thing as if they had
expressed to a stranger their intention of making such "pplica-"
tion 6f the payments, and had afterwards refused to carry such
intention into effect." 'Still later (in 1834), in the case of
Philpot v. Jones, 2 Adolph. & Ellis, 41, Denman, Chief Justice, says : " The defendant made no application 'of that pay.ment;- the plaintiff th6refore may elect at any time to appropriate it to this part of his demand." And so Taurnton, Justice,
in the same case : -"
Here the £17 were paid without any application to the particular items of the account. The plaintiff
then might apply that payment to the items in question ; and
he -was not bound to tell the defendant at tl6e time that he

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

691

Jones v. The United States.

made such application; he might make it at any time before
the case came under the considerationof the jury." In Smith
v. Wigler and Turnicliffe, 3 Moore & Scott, 175, Tindall, Chief
Justice, said that the creditor must make the appropriation at
the time the money comes to his hands. Yet, in Mills v.
Fowkes, 5 Bingham's New Cases, 455, the same Chief Justice
said, that, in conformity with the rule in Simpson v. Ingham,
the creditor may make the application at any time before action
brought. Bosanquet, Justice, said, in the same case, that the
receiver might appropriate the payment, if the debtor had -not,at
any time before action commenced; and Coltman, Justice, that,
notwithstanding the doubt expressed by the Master of the Rolls
in Clayton's case, the more correct view seemed to be, "that
the creditor is not limited in point of time."
In the case of The Mayor of Alexandria v. Patton, reported in
4 Cranch, 320, Chief Justice Marshall said, in pronouncing the
decision
"It is a clear principle of law, that a person owing
money on two several accounts; as upon a bord and simple
contract, may elect to apply his payments to which account he
pleases; but if he fails to make the application, the election
passes from him to the creditor. No principle is recollected
which obliges the creditor to make the election immediately.
After having made it, he- is bound'by it; but until he makes
it, he is free to credit either the bond. or the simple contract."
So, too, Justice Story, in delivering the decision in the case
of Kirkpatrick v. The United States, 9 Wheaton, 724, says, -.
"The general doctrine is, that the debtor has a right, if he
pleases, to make the appropriation of payments; if he omits it,
the creditor may make it; if both omit it, the law will apply
the payments according to its own notions of justice. It'is certainly too late for either party to claim a right to make an application after tlie controversy has arisen, and a fortiori at the
time of the trial." The two cases last cited, with those of The
*United States v. January, and of The United States v. Eckford's
Executors, comprise the substance, it is believed, of all that has
been ruled by this court upon the subject of the appropriation
of payments. There are several Sttte decisions upon this subject,'which are not adverted to; but amongst these, if examined,
there will be found some contrariety. An attempt to reconcile
any discrepancies, either real or apparent, amongst eithier the
English or American cases, would seem to be at least useless
here, inasmuch as, with regaid to the only principle connected
with the appropriation of payments which we deem to be involved in this case, all the decisions concur. There is not even
a decision to be found which denies to the creditor, where the
debtor has been quiescent, the right to appropriate payments at

1692

SUPREME COURT
Jones v. The United Sta.aes.

the periods at which they shdll be niade; and the- concession
of.this restricted right we hold to be decisive of the character
and fate of the transaction under review. 'That transaction exhibits, one general account of debit and credit continued from
its commencement to its close,. when, and at no -prior time, the
balance is struck. On the due side of the account are presefited
the amounts received by the postmaster for postages -within
the periods there stated, and on the other side are entered to his
credit the sums paid by him, either in, cash or in drafts fr6m the
Postmaster-General, in an exact conformity with the dates at
which the transactions occurred. ' By this application any balance which may- have existed at the end of a previous quarter
was extinguished, and sometimes overpaid, and, the account thus,
brought down to the final balance. To this mode of application no just objection can be perceived ; the parties interested
in the payments were the same throughout, "and equally liable
for all; the payments being made generally, and without any
appropriation by the debtors who were thus liable, it was. the
undoubted right of the ere litor to apply them to any sums *antecedently due. -Indeed, in the case of -The United States v.
Kirkpatrick, this court say, that "in long running. accounts,
where debits and credits are perpetually occurring, and no balances. otherwise adjusted than for the purpose of making rests,
we are of opinion that payments ought to be applied to extinguish the debts according to the priority of time." In this case
they have been so applied, and in strict conformity with the
times.at which such payments were made.
We conclude our view of this question in the language of
Judge Hopkinson, in the case of The Postmaster-General v. Norvell, Gilpin, 134: - " The application of the moneys received
in a.subsequent quarter to the payment of the'debt or balance
antecedently due being perfectly correct and lawful, it follows
that no part of the default for which suit is brought accrued
two years before; on the: contrary, all the balances antecedent to
the last quarter were extinguished by the successive payments,
and the final balance falls'on the last quarter." A contrary result could be attained only by changing the manner in which
the accounts have been kept, and by arranging the actual transactions as they have occurred between the paerties, -a proceeding which we think is required neither by the-letter nor the
objects of the act of Congress. The judgment' of. the Circuit
Court should therefore be, and is hereby, .armed.
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern

JANUARY-TERM,

693

1849.

Harris v. Wall.

District of Virginia, and was argued, by counsel. 'Onconsider-.
ation whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

Bw.TAmitN#D. HARRIS,. PLAINTIFF ix ERROR, v. JAI.IS

D.

WALL,

The conditions under which a party is permitted and a magistrate authorised to
take a deposition de bene esse by the thirtieth section of the Judiciary Act are,1st. That the witness lives at a greater 'i-ance from the place of trial than
one hundred miles.
2d. Or is bound on a voyage to sea.
Od., Or is about to go out of the United States.
4th. Or out of 'such dfstrc t to a greater distance from the place of tra than
one hundred miles before the time of trial.
5th. Or is ancient or very infirm.
And to entitle himself.to read the deposition upon the trial, the party must show,-"
lst. That the witness is dead.
2d. Or gone out of the United States.
3d. Or to a greater distance than one hundred miles from the place where the
court is sitting.
4th. Or that, by ason of age, sickness, or bodilyinfirmity, he is unable to travel
and appear at'court.
The authority or jurisdiction conferred on the magistrate is special, and confined
within certain limits or conditions, and the facts calling for the exercie of it should
appear upon the face of the instrument, and not.be left to parol proof
Therefore, where the magistrate, in his notice to the opposite party, only said that
the witness was about to "depart the Statd," and in bik certficate omitted to state
the reason for taking the deposition, it was not competent for the party, at the
trial, to supply the defect by proving that the witness was about to go out of the
United States.
The service of the notice upon the opposite party should be certified by the magistrate as well as the marshAl
When coupsel have siged an agreement that a deposition may be.read in evidence
to the jury, it is too late, after its reading, to ask the court to exclude from the
consideration of the jury a part of the deposition.

Tnsocase was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
In February, 1839, the following sealed note was executed: $10,391.06.
Clinton, Miss., February,1839.
On or before the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
forty,-we or either of us promise and bind ourselves, our heirs,
&c., to pay to Benjamin D. Harris, his heirs or assigns, the sum
of ten thousand three hundred and ninety-one dollars and six
cents, with eight per cent. interest thereon from the date hereof.
Given under our hands and seals, the day and date above
,Written.
T.W.
[sEAL.]
JA.M.-WITR.
W.
[SAL.

