160

SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

judgment§ had been recovered by default in the suits at law in
favor of Patton. And to the sdcond', that, according to the deposition, Talbott had no interest whatever in the result of the
suit. He held the notes as a naked tfustee, the proceeds of
which, when collected, were to be applied to the payment of
the debt of Witherspoon and Muirhead, his clients. He had no
charge upon the fund, by any agreement or understanding with
Patton, or his -clients, -for costs or commissions, as attorney, or
otherwise, that would make him an interested witness. There
was no foundation, therefore, for the exclusion of his evidence.
But it is unnecessary .to pursue this inquiry, as the ground already stated sufficiently disposes of the case.
.Decree below reversed, and bill dismissed, with costs.
Order..
This cause came on to-,be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to dismiss the bill of complainant, with costs.

EDWARD P. FouriNIQUET AND HARRIET JANE FOURNIQUET, HIS WIFE,
'APPELLANTS, V. JOrN PERKINS.
The jurisdiction of courts of probate in Louisiana is confined to cases which seek an
account and settlement of effects presumed to be held by the representative of a
succession. It has not jurisdiction over cases of alleged fraud or waste,lor embezzlement of the estate.
The District Courts are courts of general civil jurisdiction.
Hence, where a petition was filed in the Court of Probate against an administrator,
praying that he might account and also be held liable for maleadministration and
spoliation, it was proper to transfer the case for trial to the District Court.
The judgment in the District Court, being generally for the defendant, must be,supposed to cover the whole case, and not to have rested upon only a branch of it,
viz. a release which was pleaded by the defendant.
Therefore, where 4 bill was filed in the Circuit Court by the same petitioners against
the same defendant, it was correct for that court to consider the question as res
ata.
Tadl
decisions upon the jurisdiction of the Probate and District Courts
e Louisiana.
examined.

Tins was an -appeal from the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the District of Louisiana.
In the year "1818, Mary Bynum, the widow of Benjamin Byn'am deceased, was living in the parish of Concordia-, State of
Louisiana, with four children, of whom Harriet, the wife of the
appellant, was one.

JANUARY -TERM, 1849.

161

Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

In August, 1818, Mrs. Bynum intermarried with John Perkins, the present appellee.
In August, 1824, Mrs. Perkins died.
In March, 1827, Perkins filed two inventories and appraisements in the Parish Court; one, of the estateof Benjamin Bynum, deceased, amounting to $ 26,055, and the other of Mrs.
Mary' Petkins, deceased, amounting to $6,575. About the
same time, Perkins was appointed administrator of the estate
of Benjamin Bynum, and guardian of the infant children.
In May, 1827, he filed an account, showing an administration
of-the estate as far back as 1817. The account was filed by
him as curator ad bona and tutor to the minor heirs.
In 1834, after the marriage of Harriet with Fqurniquet (the
present appellants), Perkins stated his account as guardian of
Harriet Bynum separately, bringing her in debt to him
$ 550.81, which sum Fourniquet paid by a check on the
Planters' Bank. The following receipt wgs also subsequently
given to Perk*ins by Fourniquet and wife.:" Received, Natchez, May' 27th, 1834, of John Perkins, in
settlement of an account, debts due, and demands, whatsoever,
to the present day, one hundred dollars in full; having, on a
previous occasion, received from him, as guardian of my wife,
Mrs. Harriet Foirniquet, late Miss Bynum, all the estate, portion, and share she inherited by the death of her late father,
Benjamin Bynum, late of Concordia, Louisiana, deceased, or
her mother, Mrs. Mary Perkins, of the county of Adams and
State of Mississippi, and brothers, Benjamin S. Bynum, of the
county of Claiborne, State last aforesaid, deceased, and do, by
these presents, jointly with my said wife, release, and for ever
discharge, the said Perkins, either as guardian, or otherwise,
growing qjut of the estate aforesaid, or in any other manner or
shape whatsoever, and for ever exonerate him, by these presents, his heirs, executors, and administrators, therefrom.
11In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
seals, the day and year first above written, to wit, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, in.the
presence of Elijah Bell and John E. Maddox, whose names are
hereunto subscribed as witnesses thereto, the said John Perkins
being also personally present, and by these presents accepting.
"Signed, sealed, and delivered.
(Signed,)
E. P. FOURNIQUET,
[SEAL.]
HARRI T J. FOURNIqUET, [SEAL.J
JOHN PERKINS.
[sEAL.]
"Witness present:
ELIJAH BELL,

JOHNE, MADDUX.

14*

162

SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

"State of Mississippi,Adams County:
"Personally before me, Woodson Wren, a stice of the
peace for the county of Adams, appeared E. P. Fourniquet and
Harriet J. Pourniquet, his wife, and John Perkins, whose
names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that they signed, sealed, and delivered the same' as their
act and deed, on the day and for the uses and purposes therein
mentioned.
"Given under my hand and seal, the 28th May, 1834.
"WoonsoN WREN. [sEAL.]"
(Signed,)
In-1837, the parties .mutually confirmed the above instrument by.the following acknowledgment: "S " tate
of Louisiana, Parishof Concordia:
I, George
W. Keeton, judge of the said parish, duly
commissioned and qualified, do hereby certify and attest, unto all
whom it doth or may concern, that Harriet J.Bynum, wife of
Edward P. Fourniquet, and Edward P. Fourniquet, and John
Perkins, personally appeared before me, and acknowledged that
they had signed and sealed the foregoing instrument of writing
as and for their proper act and deed. To the due execution
thereof, 'an act being requested, the same under my seal of ofice, to serve as occasion may require.
"Done and passed at my office, in the town of Vidalia, on
.[v..]
the thirteenth day of January, A. D. eighteen hundred and thirty-seven.
(Signed,)
J.W. KEETON, P. Judge."
In December, 1838, Fourniquet and wife, then residing in the
State ot Mississippi, filed their petition in the Court of Probates
-for the parish of Concordia, in the State' of Louisiana, preferring
their claim against Perkins for a large amount of property alleged by them to have come to his hands, and alleging that
the receipt obtained from thei had been given through ignoance and error, and in direct contravention of a provision of the
law, 'and was therefore vbid. They charged upon Perkins, both
as atdmir;strator and curator ad bona of the childret of Mrs.
Perkins, spoliations to a large amount, and prayed that he
might render" a full account of his transactions with respect
to the successions of Benjamin Bynum and Mrs. Perkins, and
with respect to his guardianship, and be compelled to make full
compensation to the petitioners. In February, 1839, Perkins
filed.his answer, first interposing three exceptions to the prayer
bf the petition. The two first of these exceptions it is not
material here to notice; the third was in effect a plea in bar,
nsisting on the receipt and- release above, set forth. The

JAN ARY TERM, 1849.

163

3 ourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

answer followed the allegations of the petition, and controverted
them all, alleging that the respondent had discharged his duty"
with fidelity.
A supplemental petition and answer were afterwards filed,
which it is not necessary to state particularly.
On the 10th of December, -184,0, the case was transferred, by
consent, to the Ninth District Court, in the parish of Concordia.
On the 24th of December, 1840, the cause came on for trial in
the District Court, when the jury found a verdict for the defeAdant, and the court thereupon pronounced judgment in his favor.
In June, 1844, Fourniquet and wife filed a bill on the equity
side of the Circuit Court of the United States in and for the
District of Louisiana. , It .claimed, in right of the wife, part of
her inheritable portion' of the estates of her father and mother,
and prayed for, a ftdl account of the use and profits thereof from
August, 1824, to May, 1827. It averred that Benjamin Bynum, the father of Harriet, left a large, unencumbered estate at
his death; that it was out of debt, and had a large amount of
money on hand and debts due to it at the time when Mrs. Bynum intermarried with Perkips; that Perkins took possession
of all the property, maleadministered and used it as his own;
that he presented false and fraudulent accounts to the Court of
Probate. The bill admitted the execution of the receipt and release, but chat'ged them to have been obtained by false. representations; it stated that a suit had been brought in the Probafe Court by the complainants, and that it had been transferred
by consent of all the partibs -to the District Court, but protested
that the District Court had no jirisdiciion of the subject-matter
thereof, and therefore its judgment could be no bar to the
complainants' present suit. The bill then prayed for an account and general relief.
To this bill Perkins pleaded in bar the record, proceedings,
and judgment of the District Court, averring that these embraced and concluded the whole matter set forth and complained of in the bill. The plea was supported by an answer, which
denied all the allegations of the bill.
On the 10th of April, 1845, the Circuit Court pronounced
the following decree : "1This cause came on to be heard at this term, and was argued
by counsel; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof, it was
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, as follows, -viz. : That the;
plea of the said defendant, by him pleaded'in bar to the bill of
the said complainants, be sustained and judged a good and sufficient bar to the said plaintiffs actiong°as set forth in his.bill,
and that the said complainants' bill be -dismissed, with costs.",
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this court.

164

SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

It was argued by Mr.Fendall and Mr. Henderson, for the
appellants, and Mr. Coze and Mr. Downs, with whom was
Mr. Mlayer, for the appellee.
That part of the argument for the appellants which related
to the point upon which te decision of this court turned was
as follows.
3d. But as matter of law, the jurisdiction of the court which
pronounced the judgment pleaded in bar was a naked usurpation. It had no authority whatever, rationmaterice. Its decision was therefore wholly void, and required not to be excepted
to by'plea. Louisiana Code of Practice, Art. 333.
And consent could not aid or give jurisdiction in such case.
Ibid., Art. 92; 1 Martin, N. S. 704; 14 La. Rep. 179.
Such adjudication is void. 1 Pet. 340; 2 Pet. 169; 13 Pet.
511; .12 Pet. 719; 3 How. 762.
The Code of Practice was adopted on the 2d of September,1825, and in force throughout the State on the 2d of October,
1825. 11 La. Rep. 515.
Before this code the probate powers were somewhat distributed among the courts, and not well regulated or defined.
The reported cases, therefore, -before the year 1825, furnish.no
rule as to the jurisdiction involved in the present inquiry. See
Tabor v. Johnson, 3 Martin, N. S. 674. Art. 924 of the Code
of Practice provides, that "Courts of probate have the exclusive
power, - ?. To appoint tutors arid"curators for minors, &c. 4.
To appoint curatqrs to vacant estates. 5. To make inventories
and sales of the property of sucdessions which are administered
by curator ,-&c. 9. To compel such administrators (all such)
to render an account when required," &c.
And by the act of the Legislature of March 25th, 1828, see.
14, it is enacted, "1That all suits brought against curators and
other administrators during the time of their administration or
curatorship shall, after the expiration of said time, and even
after said curators and administrators have rendered their accounts to the heirs, be and remain in the Court of Probates,"
- there to be continued and tried, &c. See the act in Code
of Practice, ed. 1839, pp. 194-198, or Bullard and Curry's Digest.
So stands the State law, as to the exclusive jurisdiction in
the Probate Court of the matters in the suit pleaded in bar, as
adjudged in the District Court. The jurisdiction of District
Courts is shown in Art. 126 of the Code of Practice, and that
of the Parish Court in Art. 128.
In the case from the District Court, 6 Martin) N. S. 212, it
was adjudged by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in 1827, (after
the Code of Practice was in operation,) that the Probate Coust

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

165

Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

had the exclusive jurisdiction to compel the defendant, whose
office of tutor had expired, to account and pay over money in
his hands. And that the District Court was without such authority, and thereupon dismissed the case.
But the case in 7 Martin, N. S., pp. 105- 107, decided
in 1828, is precisely the case pleaded in bar. The suit was
instituted in the Probate Court against the curator of a minor.
The judge recused himself, and the suit, by consent of parties,
was transferred for trial to the District Court. Held, that under
the old codei where such consent was given, the adjudication
was not void; but by the Code of Practice the Probate Court
alone had power to try such cases, and consent of parties
could not confer the power on the District Court. Judgment
therefore annulled.
To like effect is the case in 4 La. Rep. 539, and 10 La. Rep.
219, and many more could be cited.
The case in 5 La. Rep. 355, which might seem to conflict
with the previous decisions, refers in its judgment to an adjudication by the District Court made before the Code of Practice.
Mr. Ooze, for the appellee, argued the case orally, and Mir.
Mayer filed an elaborate brief. The reporter selects the following, however, from the brief of Air. Downs, because it enables
him to state the points upon that side rather more succinctly.
The following points are submitted against.the bill, and to
sustain the plea and answer 1: The District Court of Louisiana has jurisdiction, and was
competent In law to decide such a case, with the consent of
the parties, and the judgment so rendered was valid. That
court was one of general jurisdiction, extending to "all civil"
cases above a certain amount. The language is clear and unequivocal -" The jurisdiction of District Courts, excepting the
court of the first district, extends over all civil cases where the
amount in dispute exceeds fifty dollars." Code of Practice, Art.
125, note 1, and the cases there referred to; Tabor v. Johnson,
3 Martin, N. S. 675 ; Foucher v. Caraby, 6 ib. 550 ; Dangerfield
v. Thruston, 8 ib. 241; Donalson v. Rust, 6 Martin, 261; 12
ib. 235.
The reasoning of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in these
cases is much strengthened by a paragraph in the 924th
article, defining the jurisdiction of the Courts of Probate, which,
it is contended, have exclusive jurisdiction of such cases. This
paragraph, the fifteenth, provides that whenever the parish
judge, who is judge of the Court of Probate, is in any way
disqualified from trying such cases, "the District Court or parish
judge of the adjoining parish shall have jurisdiction thereof."

166

SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

It may well be doubted whether Courts of Probate have
jurisdiction on questions of tort, contract, or fraud and dangers,
'as in this case. McDonough v. Spraggins, 1 La. Rep. 64;
Hurst v. Hyde, 6 ib. 451.
2. The case was in fact tried by the judge of the Court of
Probate, who was called into the District Court for that purpose ; the process, depositions, and all -the proceedings were in
the Court of Probate up to 'the moment'of trial, when it was
by consent of parties transferred to the District Court for. the
purpose of a trial by jury.
This case, then, was in fact rather a reference of an intricate
and long account to experts or arbitrators, under the provisions
of the laws of Louisiana, and their award or finding or report
could be objected to or set aside only in the way pointed out
by law. Code of Practice, Art. 442, 443, 456.
But even if the judgment was invalid, and the complainants
have a right to demand- its nullity, they have no right to demand it in the Circuit Court of the United States. This is
not left, in"
our syste'n of jurisprudence to general principles or
authorities at home, or abroad, but in 'this, as in many other
cases, our legislature'has provided a specific and an appropriate
remedy, and declared !Ute tribunals in which alone it may be
sought. Before the promulgation of the Code of Practice, in
1825, there was some doubt and uncertainty in the laws of
Louisiana on that subject, 'but it was entirely renoved by the
admirable provisions of that code on this subject, under the
Art. 604-613, inclusive.
title of "Nullity of Judgment."
McCombs v. Dunbar, 1 La. Rep. 21; Melanct6n v. Broussard, 2 ib. 15.
It seems clear, then, when we apply the principles of these
articles and decisions to the case before the court, 1. That the judgment in. this case is invalidated by none of
the nullities whiclh authorize its being set aside.
The third paragraph of the 606th article does not weaken
this position. The judge of the District Court was not incompetent, either from the amount in dispute or from the nature of
the cause, as shown in tre authorities previously cited under
the first heaci. If a Court of' Probate had rendered judgment
on a question of title, or contract, or fraud, or tort, being- a
court of special and limited jurisdiction, its nullity might have
been demanded; but not so with the District Court, to which
the law expressly gives jurisdiction in "all civil cases."
2. But even if there was nullity in the judgment, it might
have been demanded in the -same court by motion for a new
trial or action of nullity, or by appeal to the Supreme Court
under the restrictions and within the time provided by law, but

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

167

Fournihuet et al. v. Perkins.

could not be demanded in any other court, especially a court
of the United States.
3. That the complainants cannot maintain this action of
nullity, because they acquiesced in the execution of the judgment for nearly four years before this action was brought, not
even asking a f6ew trial, or taking any appeal. Art. 612.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
Althougn the decree of the Circuit Court is accompanied by
no opinion or argument setting out in extenso the grounds on
which the bill of the appellants (the plaintiffs below) was
dismissed, yet the foundation of this decree is plainly disclosed
by reference to the plea of the defendant below, referred to
and sustained by the Circuit Court in its fullest extent. This
plea assumes the position that the matters drawn into controversy by the bill had been previously litigated between these
parties, and by a court of competent jurisdiction adjudged and
settled against the complainants. The insertion of this plea hereis deemed proper, as the character of the proceedings which
enter into its averments, and constitute the bar set up thereby,
will furnish the readiest key to the exceptions urged against the
decree of the Circuit Court. The plea is in the following
words "In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Ffth
Circuit and Eastern District of Louisiana.

UE. P.

FOURNIqUET AND WIFE V. JOHN PERKINS.

"The plea and answer of the defendant, John Perkins, to the
bill of complaint and discovery of the said complainants.
"This respondent, saving and reserving all benefit, &c.,
&e., shows, that, on or about the 15th day of December, 1838,
the said complainants did institute a suit in the Court of Probates in and for the parish of Concordia, in the State of Louisiana, against this respondent, for the same cause of action as is
set forth in the said complainants' bill. That the said suit
was duly and regularly transferred for trial and judgment upon
all matters in issue therein to the District Court of the ninth
judicial district of the State of Louisiana, held in and for the
said parish of Concordia, when and where such proieddingg
and pleadings were had, and such issue joined, as embraced
the whole matters set forth and complained of in and by the
said complainants' bill in this behalf filed and exhibited; and
that in the further due and lawful proceedings in said suit, and
upon final hearing thereof, judgment was rendered in favor of
this defendant, upon all the matters in issue therein; all which
will appear by a transcript of, the record of the proceedings

'I 8

-SUPREME COURT.
Fourniquet et al. v. Perkins.

in the said suit, duly authenticated, which is hereto annexed
and. exhibited, and made part hereof; which said judgment isr
final and conclusive between the said parties, as to all the matters of the said complainants' bill; and this respondent pleads
and sets up the same as a full and complete bar to the said bill,
and prays that-he may have the benefit thereof as such."
If this .plea be correct in form and true in substance, there
can be no 'doubt -that, the subject now in controversy-having
become res adjudicata, the decision of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill of the complainants is vindicated from just
But exception is urged to that decisipn upon
exception.
alleged legal grounds; said to be disclosed on the face of the
plea and of the record adduced in its support, and that these
being inadequate to sustain the decision, the latter cannot be
supported. This is the material point in this cause, requiring,
therefore, particular examination.
It is insisted for the appellants, that the proceedings instituted by them in the Probate Court of Concordia against Perkins, for an account of his administration of the successions of
Benjamin Bynum and of Mrs. Perkins (formerly Bynum), and
for an account of his 3uardianship of the wife of Fourniquet,
as well'as to render him liable .for lands, slaves, crops, and
moneys belonging to those successions and to the children of
Bynum, were the proper proceedings for attaining the object
sought thereby, and that .no other tribunal, in the State of
Louisiana than the Probate Court could legally take cognizance
of those proceedings ; and that the transfer, therefore, of the
case in question from -the Probate Court to the District Court
of the State, though by the consent expressly given of all the
-parties, could not confer jurisdiction on the latter, whose decision, consequently, would be void, and could not be .pleaded
in bar of this suit. Again it is said, that, conceding the power
of the District Court to take cognizance of a case like the
present, still the proceedings before this latter court and its
decision did not embrace the rights and interests of the-parties
as set fotth in the petition to 'the Probate Court, but were
limited' to the single question of the validity of the release.
executed.by the complainants to the defendant on the 27th of
May, 1834. With regard to this second ground of exception,it may be -remarked, that thereis some want of precision in
the record of the District Court, as to the subjects embraced
within the issue which seems to have been submitted to the
jury by the court; but there is no more reason for supposing
that issue to have been limited to the mere fact of the validity
of the release mentioned, than there is for extending it to the
whole matter in controversy. The petition brought up before

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

169

PFourniquet et aL v. Perkins.

the court was the same presented to the Court of Probate, covered the whole gravamen of the complainants' case. All
their alleged rights and wrongs were embraced within its statements and prayers. This is not understood to have been a
suit in equity, nor to have been one not cognizable by a jury.
The fair presumption is, that the jury had the entire case before
them. No exception to their cognizance of the-whole case
seems to have been interposed or thought.of, and they rendered a general verdict for the defendant, to which verdict no
exception was taken. On other grounds it*seems inadmissible
to suppose that the case submitted to the jury was limited to
some specific fact or inquiry, or that the judgment of the
court was necessarily founded upon any such fact alone. By
the consent order transferring the cause from the Probate to
the District Court, we find .x very comprehensive arrangement
as to the procurement and the formis of the testimony to be used;
and in the entry of the judgment upon the record of the District Court we find the language, -" "By reason of the law and
the evidence, and the verdict being in favor of the defendant,
it is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that judgment
be rendered in favor of thd defendant." Thus it appears that
the mind of the court was directed to the entire case before it,
and not merely to an isolated question ; that its judgment has
embraced the whole cause as presented upon the petition, the
exceptions, and the answer of the defendant, and although the
proceedings which led to the -decision may seem to be irregular
and anomalous, that decision must stand as a judgment, binding between the parties thereto, unless shown to be void forwant of jurisdiction in the tribunal which pronounced it, or
that it has been reversed and annulled by some competent
supervisory authority. This brings us back to the inquiry into the competency of the District Court of the State to take cognizance of the subject on which its decision was made.
By Art. 126 of the Code of Practice it is declared that thejurisdiction of the District Courts extends over all civil causes
where the amount in dispute exceeds fifty dollars.
The
natural import of this provision is to render the District Courts
-of Louisiana courts of general jurisdiction in all civil causes
not embraced within the above exception. But their powers
hav6 not been left to be now deduced for the first time from
the language of the article above cited. They appear to have
been defined and established by the supreme judicial authority
of the State, and plainly distinguished from the functions of
the Probate Courts with reference to subjects like those involved in the present case. The jurisdiction of thie Courts of Probate appears to be confined to cases which seek a settlement
VOL. VII;

15

SUPREME COUVRT.
Fourniquet et aL v. Perkins.

maid an accounting for effects presumed to be in the possession
bf the'representative of a succession, holding those effects in his
lepresentative character. Where the purpose is to charge the
executor or curator personally for fraud, maleadministration,
waste, or embezzlement of the succession,, the Court of Probate
has not jurisdiction, but in such cases jurisdiction is vested in
District Courts. The law appears to have been so rulMd in
inany cases by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. A few of
these will be adverted to. Thus, in the case of McDonough v.
Spraggins, I La. Rep. 63, on an appeal from the Court of Probates, the point is thus succinctly stated hy Mathews, Justice, in
delivering the opinion of the court This suit was com"enced against the defendant in his capacity of curator, to obthin a judgment- rendering the succession which he represents
liable to pay and satisfy the plaintiffs' demand, and also to obtain
a decree against him personally, on the event of the property
'being insufficient to pay all just claims.against it, as having
illegally administered the succession of the intestate."' The
Court of Probates decided against the application, and the Su4preme Court, in passing upon that decision, lay down'the law
in these words: - "As an administrator de son tort, or as an
intermeddlei, he may be answerable to creditors for waste;
but those pursuits against him must take place in a court of
ordinary jurisdiction." The next case on this point is that of
-Bouquette's Guardian.v. Donnet, 2 La. Rep. 193. There Por'ter"Justice, pronouncing the decision, says, - 1It appears
to us
This 'is a demand against th&executor in his personal capacity for
the value of the property sold by him contrary to law. In other
words, for a tort done by him. We think the Probate Court
had no jurisdiction -of the case, and that the petition must be
dismissed, with costs in both curts." In 6 La. Rep. 449 is
the case of Hurst v. Hyde, Executor, in which it is ruled, that
"the Court of Probates has no jurisdiction in an action f6r
damages occasioned by an act of the executor not legally done
in relation to the administration of the succession." The last
authority which will be cited to this point is one of later date.
It is the-decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the
ease of Hemken v. Ludwig, -Curatrix, a decision made in 1845,
and reported in 12 Robinson's Reports, 188, upon an appeal from the Court of Probates of Ouachita. This was a
petition brought to subject the curatrix for what, in the legal
language of Louisiana, is called a maleadministration of the
stccession, corresponding with the term waste at the commot
law. At page 191 of the volume, Judge Simon, in- delivering
the opinion* of the court, thus states the law:
'( It is clear,
the Court of Probates was without jurisdiction to aedide-un the
"

JANUARY

TERM,,18.49.

i71

Fourniquet et 0. .v. Perkins.

matters set out in the plaintifPs petition in relation to the dom
fendant's personal liability. It is true she is sued as curatrix,
but one of the principal grounds alleged against her fron.
which she is said to have incurred personal responsibility is,
that slie has concealed property belorging to the estate and
has converted it to her own use, whereby she has lost the benefit of her renunciation, and has become liable, personally, to
pay the debts of her husband. The main object of the suit is
to obtain judgment against her individually, and such was virtually the judgment appealed from. It is not pretended that
the property which she failed to include in the inventory is in
her possession as curatrix ; but that she claims the same as her
own, and refuses to give it up. It is well settled that courts
of probate have no jurisdiction of a claim against an adhiinistrator personally for maleadminibtration."
That the petition of Fourniquet and wife presented to the
Probate Court, and subsequently transferred to the District
Court, contained charges of maleadministration cannot be denied. Indeed, with respect to thi successions of Mary Bynum,
the mother, and Benjamin Bynum, the father, of the petitioner,
Harriet, and with respect to the release charged to have been
fraudulently abstracted from both the petitioners, it alleged, not
merely acts of maleadministration,. but instances of disholiesty,
and spoliation extraordinary in character and extent, and claimed of the defendant, in -consequence thereof, a heavy personal
liability for lands, slaves, and money, unjustly, appropriated to
h own purposes. From Art. 126 of the Code of Practice,
we have seen that the jurisdiction of the District Courts of
Louisiana extends over all civil cases where the amount in dispute is over fifty dollars; in other words, that these courts are
courts of general ciiil jurisdiction. By the authorities cited
from the Supreme Court of Louisiana, it is equally apparent.
that the Probate Courts are not courts of general, but of special
limited jurisdiction; and that from their cognizance are excluded cases of fraud, torts, waste, or maleadministration generally, committed by executors and administrators; and that these
cases belong peculiarly to the cognizance of the District Courts.
Such being the conclusions warranted by a review of the law,
and the facts of this case being, of a character to fall directly
and regularly within its operation, it may well be asked what
just exception can be taken to the jurisdiction of the District
Court in this case ? It was not a jurisdiction' depending at all
upon consent, Which, it is said, cannot invest a court with power
not belonging to it by its constitution. It was a transfer of a
litigation, by conient, from a tribunal confessedly without authority to decide it, to a tribunal in every respect competent to

172

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin . Lowry.

-

take cognizance of the subject-matter,-whose peculiar province
and duty it was to iake cognizance of it. The exception, at
the utmost, resolves itself into matter of form, which the parties
were competent to waive, and which they did waive; for it is
expressly stated upon the -record, that. the removal of the cause
from the Court of Probate into the District Court was .by the
consent of all concerned. It cannot be pretended that the
forms of pleading may not be dispensed with by suitors; as it
is certain that the benefit of matters both of substance and
form may be lost by mere neglect or omission, where no intention of the renunciation of either is apparent or ever existed.
We must conclude that the District Court had -rightfully jurisdiction of the cause removed into it from the Probate Court;
that its judgment is and must be binding upon the parties to it,
until it shall be annulled or reversed by a competent authority.
The parties to that judgment, the subj6ct-matter thereof, and
embraced within the proceedings .on which it was founded,
being identical with those comprised in the bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Ninth Circuit, now under
review, the judgment was well pleaded in bar of the claims set
up by the bill, and the decree of the Circuit Court sustaining
this plea we hold to be correct, and the same is therefore hereby affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court .of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JArEs ERwIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ALFRED J. LowRy, CuRATOR
or ALEXANDER McNEILL, DECEASED.
Where a petition fur the seizure and sale of the mortgaged property of a deceased person was filed, in the Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana,
against the executor of that deceased person, which petition* alleged the plaintiff
to be a citizen of Tennessee, and the defendant to be a citizen of Louisiana, and
the proceedings went on to a sale without any objection to the jurisdiction of the
courebeing made by the executor upon the ground of residence of parties, it is
too late for a curator, appointed in the place of the executor, to raise the objection
in a State court against a purchaser at the sale, and attempt to prove tli the
Circuit "Courthad no jurisdiction over the case, because the executor was not a
citizen of Louisiana. Evidence dehors the record cannot be introduced to dis-

prove it
Where a lien existed on property by a special mortgage before.the debtor's death, aid

