JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

769,

Ud'ell et al. v. -Davidson.

GR

B.

UDELL "AND JACOB MILLER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ALExANDER B. DAViDSON.

The act of 1838, (5 Stat. at Large, 251,) relating to preemption rights, provides, that
"before any person claiming the benefit of this law shall have a patent for the land
which he may claim, by having complied with its provisions, he shall make oath,
&c, that he entered upon the land which he claims in his own right, and exclasively for his own-use and benefit, and that he has not, directly or indirectly, made
any agreement or contract, in any way or manner, with any person or persons
whatever, by which the title which he might acquire from the government of the
United States should enure to the use and.benefit of any one e'xcept himself, or'
to convey or transfer the said land, or the title which he may acquire to the' same,
to any other person or persons whatever, at any subsequent time."
Where a preemptioner sold his inchoate title, which passed ultimately into the
hands of a trustee, and the trustee loaned money out of the trust fund to the preemptioner, in order to enable him to pay the government; and the title thus .ohtained from the United States. was conveyed by the preamptioner to the trustee,
without any reference to the trust; and the trustee was orderdd by a State court
to hold the property subject to the trust, -he cannot remove the case to this court,
by virtue oftthe twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act..
There is no itle, right,- privilege, or exemption, under an act of Congress, set up by
the party and-decided against him by the State court. By his own showing, heI
has acquired-no title from the United States..
The allegation is, that a fraud was perpetrated upon the government, and another
meditated upon the cestui que trust; both of -which this court is called upon
to maintain and carry out.
The case is dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Illinois, by a writ of error issued under the twenlyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.
A motion to, dismiss it, for want of jurisdiction, wa's made
by Mr. J. Mason Campbell, which motion was sustained by
him, and opposed by Mr. Coze.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the bpinion of the court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case, for want of
jurisdietion.
, It appears that a man by the name of Gregory had obtained,
by residence on the land mentioned in the proceedings, a right
of pregmption, under the act of Congress of 1838. But, biefore he paid the price fixed by the government in such cases,
or mide the entry, he sold his right to Miller, one of the plaintiffs in error. Miller afterwards conveyed to a man by the
name of Joslyn, in secret trust for himself, and subject to his
control. - Subsequently to this conveyance, Joslyn, by the"
direction of Miller, conveyed to Udell, the other plaintiff in
error, in trust to sell to the highest bidder, and apply the proceeds to the -payment of Jthe creditors of Miller, pro rata, if
they were not sufficient to pay all demands.
VOL. V 1
65

770

SUPREME COURT.
Udell et al. v. Davidson.

Udell accepted, the trust, and, after having cone so, made an
agreexijent With Gregory, by Which Gregory was to enter the
land at the proper office, at the preemption price, and then
convey to Udell in trust, for the benefit of Miller's creditors,
reserving a small portion of the land to Gregory himself
Udell'was to furnish the money to enable Gregory to make
the entry.
Under this agreement, Udell e~ecuted a release to Gregory of
all his right to the land, in order to enable him to make the
entry as pregmptioner, and at the same time took frominhim a
note- for a thousand dollars, which was to be given up if
Gregory made the conveyance according to his agreement.
The land was worth a thousand dollars. The government
•price to the pregmptioner was only two hundred- dollars, which
sum was advanced by Udell to, Gregory. One hundred and
fifty dollars of this money belonged to the creditors of Miller,
and was so appliedat his-requeit, and updn his statement that
this application: would be for the interest of his creditors. The
.remaining fifty was "advanced by Udell,, to -be repaid out
of the proceeds of the land, when sold. But it does not appear that the defendant in error, or indeed any of Miller's creditors, sanctioned this trans'action at the time, or had knowledge
of !his application of the trust funds.
With the money thus obtained, Gregory made the entry,
and then executed a ded to Udell. This deed, upon the face
of it, is absolute, and contains no trust for the creditors.
After havifig thus obtained a conveyance, Udell refused to
execute the trust, and therefore the defendant in error, as one
of the creditors of Miller,.in behalf of himself and the other
creditors, 'filed a bill in chancery, setting out more at large the,
facts above stated, and praying that the land might be sbld for
their'benefit, in pursuance of the, trust.
- The plaintiffs in error demurred to. the bill, assigning various
causes of demurrer, and, among others, that the transaction
with Gregory, by which Udell obtained a conveyance, was. in
violation of the act of 1838.
The chancery court, upon' the' hearing, decided that- the
land- in the hands of Udell was chargeable with the trust, and
directed it-to be sold, and the proceeds to be applied accordingly. This decree was affirmed in the Supreme Court'of the
State, andthe present *rit of error has been presented upon
I
that judgment.
It is unnecessary to notice any of the various' causes of
-demurrer assigned by the plaintiffs in error, except that which
relies on the .provisions of the act of 1838. For this'being a
-writ of error to a State court, we have no right to revise its

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

771

Udell et al..v. Davidson.

decision upon any of the other causes assigned, and the only
question-before this court is, whether any title, right, privilege,
or exemption, claimed by the plaintiffs in error in the State
court under this act of Congress, 'was drawn in question and
decided against them.
They do not claim that Udell obtained a valid, title by the
entry -made by Gregory, and his subsequent conveyance to
Udell. And if their defence had been placed ou that ground,
it would not have given jurisdiction to this court, because the proceeding to cjarge it.with a trust created by contract would have
been no impeachment of the grant made by the United States.
They defend themselves upon the ground, that the transaction between them and Gregory, by which the entry was
made under a previous contract to convey, was a violation of
the act of 1838. This is undoubtedly .true; for the act requires the party who claims t~e right of preemption by residence to make oath that hd has not contracted to sell. or
transfer the land to any pther person. 'And he is not permitted
to purchase at the low price at which 'the'person entitled to
pregmption is allowed to buy, until this oath is taken and
And if he swears
ified with the register of the land-office:
falsely, he is liable to an indictment for perjury, andforfeits all
title to the land, and deeds made by him convey no title,
unless they are made to a bond fide purchaser without notice.
The plaintiffs in error admit that they participated in the
fraud, and consequently Udell, iLpon their own showing, has
acquired no right to the land under the act of Congress on
which he relies. They do not claim that he obtained a: valid
title under the law, but insist that the transaction was against
its policy, and in violation of- it§ principles. What right .or
privilege does he then claim~under this act 6f Congress? It is
this. He not only admits, but inisists, that, by a fraud hpon
the government, he has obtained a deed to himself for this land,
and that he, being trustee for the creditors of Miller, used the
money which belonged to his cestui que truststo accomplish his
purposes; and now contends, that, by means of this fraud upon
the government, he has acquired under this act of Congress a
right to perpetrate a fraud also upon his uestui que trusts.
This, in plain words, is the amount of his dbfence; and this
is the right or privilege which he claims under the provisions
of the act of 1838, and calls upon this court to recognize and
maintain. We shall not comment .on such a claim. Thq
writ of error must be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the

772

SUPREME-COURT.
Neilson t. Lagow.

record from the. Circuit Court of Winnebago county, State of
Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On considerationi whereof,
ii is now here ordered aend adjudged by this court, that this
'writ of error be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the
want of jurisdiction.

HALL ,NEILSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILSON LAGOW.

Where, upon the trial of, ' case in a State court, a part7 claims the land in dispute,
- under an authority which he alleges has been exercised by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in behalf of the United States, and the decision was against the vahity
of the authority, the party is entitled to have his case brought to this court under
the twenty-fifth section 6f the Judiciary Act.

Tins case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Indiana, by a writ of error isued'.under the - twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Ad.
* As a motion was made to dismiss it for want.of jurisdictidn,
and, the merits of the case were iot discussed; a brief statement of the facts will'be suilcient.
. It .was an action of disseizin, similar to. an ejectment,
brought by Lagow in the Circuit -Gourt fo -the county of Knox
ahd State of Indiana, against Neilson, Billis, and Thomas, to
recover possession of a piece of property known by the name
of the Steam-mill Tract, lying in the town of Vincennes. Billis
and Thomas- disclaimed all interest, and the suit was carried on
by Neilson alone. On the 19th of September, 1821, Lagow and
others conveyed- the -property to the Presideflt, Directors, and
Company of the Bank of Vincennes, their successors and assigns,
for ever, for the consideration of $198,000.
-On the 1st of July, 1822, the bank conveyed this. property
to'Badollet, Harrisoni and Buntin, and their successors, in trust
for the use of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United
Statei, in extinguishnient of the debt due by the bank to the
United States. The trustees were to sell, whenever., requested
by the Secretary of the Treasury, and continue to pay until
the United States were paid the sum of $120,308, with interest.
The Secretary of the Treasury'ws vested with power to l
up vacancies in the trust.
In July, 1822, there came on for trial in the court at Y'incennes a q warranto, which had been issued -by the State of
Indiana against the bank. The jury found a verdictrof guilty,
and the court decreed that all the franchises and property of
the bank should be seized for te use of the State. The

