JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

"83S

The United States v. King et al.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROI, V. RICHARD
DANIEL W. CoxE, DEFENDANTS.

KING AND

The case of the United States v. King and Coxe (3 Howard, 773) reviewed.
According to the practice of Louisiana, where cases are carried to an appellate tribunal, in'which the court below hs decided questions of fact as well as of law,
the appellate tribunal also reviews and decides both classes of questions.
Bat this. practice is not applicable to the courts of the United States. A writ of
efrr in them brings up only questions of law, and questions of fact remain as
imexaminable as if they had been decided by a jury below.
Where the oourt below decides both law and fact, no bill of exceptions need be
taken, The case then becomes like one at common law; where a special verdict is
found or. a case is stated, in neither of which is there any necessity for a bill of
exceptions.
Where the court below decides the facts, a statement of them' should appear upon
the record; but if such a statement be filed
after judgment is entered and a *rit of
error sued out, it cannot be considered a part of the idcord, which is closed
against it.
Leaving this statement out, there is still enough in the record to enable the court to
take co-"ce of this case, because the defendants below asserted a legal title to
be in themselves by virtue of a grant which severed the land claimed from the
royal domain:
The construction of this grant, issued in 1797, by the Baron de Carondelet, to the
Marquis de Maison Rouge, is a question of law upon which this court must review the decision of the Circuit Court.
The two grants or contracts of 1797 and 1795 must be construed together. That of
1797 refers to the one of 1795, and cannot be understood without it.
The contract of 1795 was for the benefit of the emigrants, and must have been
intended to be shown by Maison Rouge to those persons whom he was inviting
to settle upon the land. No personal benefit or compensation to himself iidividually is provided in it. T.e object was to promote the policy of th6 Spanish government as whose agentMaison Rouge aced, an.d not as the proprietor of the
land.
The contract of 1797 was intended to supply two omissions in that of 1795,namely, to
'desigate with more particlarity the place where the settlement was to be made,
and to provide for a larger number of families than was mentioned in the original
contract.
For both these purposes, a certain tract of land was marked out, and "destined and
appropriated" for the uses of the settlement.The grant of 1797 does not contain tbe words usually employed in Spanish colonial
grants, when there was an intention to sever land frouithe royal domain and convey it as individual property.

THIs case was formerly before this court, and is reported in
3 Howard, 773.
Being sent down to the Circuit 1Jourt under a mandate from
this court, it came up for trial befoie the Circuit-Court in May,
1845, when sundry proceedings took place before that court,
which it is not necessary to specify. The result was, a judgment in favor of the United States, from which King and Coxe

sued out a writ of error, and brought the case again before this
court.
Whilst so pending, this court, on the 16th of February, 1848,

passed the following order, which was announced by Mr. Chief
Justice Taney.

70*

8SUPREMECOURT.
Tfre United States v. King et al.
"KING AIM COxE

V.
UNITED STATES.)

Supreme CQurt of. the -United States, December Term, 1847.

"Upon examining the record now before the court, and referring to the points originally fif controversy and still remaining
undecided,' the court are of opinibn, that the matters in dispute
can be more conveniently and speedily heard, and finally, determined' by reinstating the case in this court in the condition in
which it stood at December term, 1844, preyious to the judgment rendered at that term: and the counsel for the respective
parti6s having,' upon the recommendation, of 'the court, cdnsented .to reinstate the case in the manner proposed,"It is thereupbn, with the consent of counsel, as afordsaid,
ordered, that the' 3udgment rendered in this court at December
term, 1844 i and all the proceedings thereon, and subsequent
thereto, be, and the same 'are hereb-y; set aside and vacated, and
the case as it stood at the term aforesaid, previous to the said
judgmdnt, reinstated. And it is further ordered, that it be
placed onthe docket of December term, 1848, to.be argued at'
.that term on such day as the court may assign, -the United
States.. being, as before, the plaintiffs in error, and King and
Coxe the-defendants,"
The -case was therefore before the court just as'it stood prior
to the, argument of it, as reported in 3 Howard, 773.
The history of the case is there given, and all the documents
upon which the claim of King and Coxe was founded are, set
forth at large. . It is unnecessary, therefore, to repeat them here.
The United States being plaintiffs in error, the argumentwas
opened and concluded by Mr. Toucey, (Attoniey-General,)
who was replied to by Mr. Coxe arid Mr. Giipin, on behalf of
the defendants in error.
All the parts of their arguments are omitted, except ,those
which bear upon the poiots decided by the court.
The Reporter has his own notes of-Mr. Coe's argument, but
prefers to print-the 'argument of Mr. Gilpin, as that gentleman
has been kind enough to revise the notes of his argument.
Mr.- Toucey, (Attorney-General,) for the plaintiffs in error.
Whether the paper dated 20th June,, 1797, signed by' the.
Baron de Carondelet, was a grant to the Marquis de Maison
Rouge of a complete title to the - thirty square leagues, jis the
principal question presented-upon the record. It is supposed, that,
finder the Spanish or any other government, if a grant from
the sovereign is set up ahd relied on, it would be necessary to
appear, that there was an intention to-make such grant.. The
mintbntion is the principal thing. It is the*essence of the act.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

835

Thb United States v. King',et al.

It is the disposing will which governs, when expressed. It
lies at the foundation of all law and every contract. The rule'
that thfe intention must govern is not the property of any one
system, but a, maxim of universal law. If such an intention
to -make a grantdo not appear, but the direct contrary, the supposition of a grant is absolutely excluded, And if this be the
state of the case upon the face of the assumed paper title, the
result will be fortified, if it be possible, by the fact, that the.practical construction-of both parties was in accordance with it.
Such is, the precise coidition of the grant now alleged as a
complete .title 'inthis court.
It will be necessary to see, - 1st, 'what was agreed to be done,
on-the part-'of the Spanish government; 2d, what was actually
done, in pursuance of that agreement; and 3d, in what, light it
was viewed by the parties after it was done, or the practical construction.
First, what was agreed to be done by the Spanish government.
This is in the firm of awritten agreement, clearly expressed,
and not liable to misinterpetation, hearing date March 17th,
1795. From this paper ii appears there were certain "families
who propbsed'to transport themselves" to Louisiana.. T p'Marquis proposes to bring thirty families, "for the purpose of foiling
an establishment with them, on the lands bordering upon the
Washita." The government agrees, - 1st, to pay tw handred
dollars to every family of two laborers, andiin proportion; 7d,
to furnish them with a guide, ind provision§, from NeW matid
to Washita; 3d, to pay for transportation of -their baggage
aad implements,-not to exceed three thousand pounds fof each
family; 4th, to give each family of two four hundred a~pens
of land, ten arpens by'fort, and in proportion for a greater number; 5th, to give the same to their. European servants with
families, after six years.- This contract was signed, "that it
might come to .the knowledge -of those families who propose to
transport themselves hither." It proposes to give nothing to
&niy one but the thirty families who are to constitute the establisliment, and their European servants. It stipulates to give
nothing to De Maison Rouge for his services- neither lazid nor
money. There is not a stipulation. in it for his benefit. The
whole benefit stipulated, including the land proniOsed, is to go-to
the thirty families composing the establishment.' The. whole
contract was for their benefit. This is the clear, express, unequivocal-contract at the outset,' and there is no pretence that it
was ever modified. The compensation to De Maison Rouge for
his services was to be derived elsewhere, if he had aqy; either
from collateral advantages, or through the emigrants or in some
other mode, which does not appear, except im the case.of Ales-

-

886

SUPREME COURT.,
-The United States v. King et, al.

ander Lawrence, where the Marquis secured the righAt to take to
himself either the-money or the land. This was the contract,
"for the establishment on the Washita o'f the thirty .families
of farmers destined tl cultivate wheat," which was approved by
the king,-" in all its parts." Thus, and thus only, it became
obligatory upon the Spanish government, and its officers derived
their authority to carry it into effect. -The effect of it was to
constitute the Marquis de Maison Rouge an agent of the Spanish
government';, it clothed him with authority to act in its name;
it was his'letter of credence to the emigrants who proposed to
come.; aud that was its avowed object, as expressed'in 'theconcluding paragraph. When used by the agent in treating with
the emigrants, and acted upoiby them,' it became a complete
and 'perfect contract -between the Spanish government on-the
one-hand, and the emigrants on the other, by which they were
* entitl'ed to'demand of. the government the stipulated benefits.
Thus far, then, there isho intention manifested by the Spanish
government to bestow these benefitg upon the government agent,
..or to permit them o beintercepted by him; but the express

.languag 6 of the contract, which received. the royal assent,
shows the direct, contrary in every particular. Having this
safe ground at the outset, - certain knowledge of the previous
contract, of the land promised to.'be given, of the persbns
to whom it was to be given, and of the agency of De Maison
Rouge, -it-will be difficult to go astray afterwards,-in tracifig
the-acts of public functionaries, done'in pursuance of this -contract, and by virtue of this authority:
The'absence of the usual formalities tends strongly to show
that here was no grant or concession. :There was no petition
for a gript to De.Maisori Rouge. He did not ask f6r any land.
* There is no decree or adjudication granting a petitioe There
is no warrant of location, permit to occupy, or any other formality, giving him possession, with promise of title upon.performance of the usual or the stipulated conditions. There
was no consideration proceeding from 'him, -moving the governinent, or that could be suppbsed to move the 'government, to
.grant to him this territory with the 'colonists upon it. He had
introduced no emigrant at his own expense.. The 'governmehit
had introduced all the families at its own expense. It had paid
their transportation, furnished them with guides and provisions,
given them a- bounty in money, and promised.them and .their
servants landd in proportion to their numbers. It had even paid
the expenses of De Maison Rouge; as.appears by the -letter of
Baron de Carondelet of the 1st of August, - 17954, to F ilhiol,
the commgidant of the pogt. "The journey of M. Maison
Rouge has cost more than five hundred dollars."

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

83

The United States v. King 6taL

But to come to the paper alleged to -be a grant to De MaisoIn
Rouge. Why should the Spanish government give the whole
territory to him.? It does not.appear, upon the face of the instrument, that the government intended a benefit to him. The
words are, " We destine and appropriate for the establishment
of the aforesaid Marquis de Maison Rouge." It is called his
.establishment by way of distinction, Here is no graiit in form
to him, nor to any. other person. The instrument does not
name any grantee,, nor contain words of grant. All the precedents require both. The instrument begins with the cause
of the designation of the land. Because the establishment
was nearly complete, it had become desirable to remove, for the
'future, all doubt respecting other families or new colonists
who might come to establish theniselves. The lands are ex-.ressly designated for the establishment, and theoriginal contract, the king's approval, and the recital in this instrument., all
show that the establishment is the colony of- thirty families.
The fact that the lands comprised in the figurative plan, as it
is called, are the identical lands to be given to the emigrants
composing this colony, is entirely decisive against the idea of
a grant to De Maison Rouge. It was not the intention of the
Spanish government to require the colonists to look lo him for
the title to their lands, but directly .to the government, who iii-.
troduced them, paid their expdnses,, gave them a bounty in
money for coming, and promised to give them their lands upon
:the 66ndition of inhabiting and cultivating them. The government did not intend to invest him with the title, because
that would incapacitate it to perform its contract with the
colonists, and with the European servants who should at the
end of six years have become heads of families. The original
contract, being specifically referred to, is incorporated in this in:
strument as fully as if recited verbatim, and the lands are designated under it, for the purposes set forth in it.. -There is no
escape from the conclusion. The designation of 1he lands f
the colony is expressly madie "1under the terms stipulated and
contracted for" by the Marquis; and the royal order approving
of that contract, and 'authorizing it, is expressly referred to by
name, description, and date. The effect of this act of the
government was merely to prescribe certain limits within
which these olonists should receive- their lands, when they
should become entitled to them, and within which other emigrants should not be permitted to intrude, without the consent
of government. -That'is the effect'produced, and it is -theonly
effect produced. It does not come up to the standard of an inchoate title to De Maison Rouge. He had no title atall, - no.
promise of title to him upon the performance of conditions,

38

S.UPREME COUA-T.
The United States v. 'King et aL

express or implied, imposed by the act of the partis or -byact
of law.
Having thus shown what the government contracted to doi
and what the government had done, and that neither in the
one. not the other was there manifested an intentioni to convey
this land to the.Marquis'de Maison-Rouge, butthe direct contrary, it'remains to. be seen how the parties regarded it, and
what was the practical construction given to this instrument.
by both of them.
First, the colonial government did not put such a construction
upon it as-would vest in him the title to the thirty leagues square,
and require the colonists to look to him, instead of the government, for their titles. They did' not- regard the land as his
property. The letters of Baron de Carondelet to. Filhiol,' the
commandant of the 'post, abundantly show this. Subsequent
grants in the same tracts, made by the government from time
to time, show it also. The inventory made after the death of
De Maison Rouge by F'ilhiol, as commandant, it is admitted
by the claimant, did not contain this land. This was in April,.
I
1800, before the secret treaty of San.Ildefonso,
Second, the Marquis.de Maison Rouge puti no such bon-struction upon this instrument. This is shown by his letters
to. Filhiol. "In that of the 21st of March, 1796, speaking of
Morrison alleges
the claims-of a Mr. Morrison, he says,
that M. Miro has promised to him that quantity of land, but
he does not say that it was -notfor him alone, but for the sixteen families and upwards, of Americans he was to have brought
into the: country and settled in the Prairie Chatellraud. More:over, he has promised 'to discover a saline. He has fulfilled
none of these conditions. This extent not having been granted
to- him individually, it still remains in the domain of the king.
He-has no more right to claim it than I would have to consider
myself as proprietorof the whole eztent that has been granted
to me, to settle agreeably to my contract with the families that
I have announced to the government,, and that they know
t6 be in mission for this place." Others of the letters are
equally explicit. In his will, dated the 26th of August, 1799,
which is subsequent to the date-of the alleged grant, he declares that he possesses property in Paris, Berry, and Querry,
which had been confiscated; he gives a-house and land which
he. had purchased to "his niaid-servant; and he also mentions
the place where he has all the articles necessary to build a sawmill for cutting plank, and a pump-auger. But there is no mention 'of this tract of thirty square leagues, which is now claimed
as his property. " He nominates Louis Boulignk his legatee unAnd also the residue and rema er
der a universal title:-"Mr.

JANU'AlY TEAM,- 1849.

-839

The United States v. Kiing et al.

of my.gbods, rights, and actions, as well -within as out of this
province, in case my parents are dead, I constitute and name
for my sole and universal heir the aforesaid Louis Bouligny. '"
The defendants now claim the absolute title to thirty square
leagues of land under this clause of the will, by this description of goods, rights, and actions.
Third, the inv'entory. which was made by the government
officer does not inclide this land. It was made when the agent
of the legatee was present, sent from New Orleans to look after
the property of the deceased. Filhiol states that he made the
inventory ' in presence of M. Michael Pommier, charged with
a power from M. Louis Bouligny,"1 but. there was not any land
mentioned in the said inventory.
"

-

Mr. Gipin, for the defendants in error.
Under the decision of this court at the last term, this case is
now presented as if the decree and opinion given in January
term, 1845, (3 Howard, 784,) had never been made. - The case
was then treated as an appeal, presenting for revision all the
facts and law. It was, in fact, a petitory action brought here
Jy a- writ of error; and; having been tried below' without a
jury, under the provisions -of the Louisiana Code of Practice,
(Art. 494, 495,)which are adopted by the act of Congress of
the 26th of May, 1824, (4 Stat. at Large, 63,) the finding of
the court on all "matters of fact was conclusive, and not subject
to'revision. Parsonsov!f Armor, 3 Pet. 414; Hyde v. Booren,
16 Pet. 169, 176,. .Minor v. Tillotson, 2 How. 394.
It appeared, too, on the' argument at the last term, that the
record before the court in 1845 was extrenely imperfect, - not
presenting all the evidence which was before the Circuit Court,
as required by the Louisiana practice on appeals, (Thayer v.
Littlefieldi 5 Rob. 153; Parkhill v. Locke, 15 Louis. 443;
Mitchell v. Jewell, 10 Martin; 645; Davis v- Darcey, 1 New Series, 589,) nor correctly exhibiting the character" of somV of the.
material evidence which was presented. The depositions on
which this cdrt mainly relied, as establishing the certificate
of Trudean to the'plano figrativo to be antedated and fraudulent, (3 Howard, 785,) were shown to be ex parte, and to have
been contradicted by many witnesses whose evidence did not
appear in the record.
What we are now to discuss is, theiefore, a ease 'presented
by a writ of ciror, founded on an allegation of' an erroneous
judgment of the Circuit Court of Louisiana on certain points
of law apparent on the record.
What was the case before the:Circuit Court?
By. the treaty of the 30(h. of April, 1803, 3, (8 'Stat. at

840

SUPR°EME COURT.
The United States v. King et aL

Large, 200,) all the, inhabitants of Louisiana, at the time of
cession, were protected in the full enjoyment of their property, -- every species of property, real and personal, whether
held by complete or inchoate titles. Soulard v. United States,
,4 Pet. 511; Delassus. v. United States, 9 Pet. 117. The defendant King is in posession of a tract of 4,666 acres on the
west bank of the Washita, from which the United States seek
to evict'him. He has vouched in warranty his grantor, the defendant Coxe, in the mode prescribed by the law of Louisiana.
Civil Code,' §§ 2476, "2493; Code of Practice, % 378, 380,
384. Cbxe has answered, and claims to have been the owner
under a title derived directly from the Marquis de Maison Rouge,
to whom the Spanish government granted, on the 20th of June,
1797, a large tract, Which continued to be the property of his
devisee at the time of the treaty, and of which" the tract in
,ontroversy *ispart. ' Coxe -also asks, by way of reconvention,
(Code of Practice, § 375,) that his own title to two thirds of.
the whole tract granted to Maison Rouge may be confirmed;
the other one third being vested, as he alleges, in the -heirs of
Turner, as set forth in a document describing their respective
interests, and marked Schedule'A. ' On the trial, much evidence,
documentary and parol, was offered on the part of the defendants to maintain, and on the part of the United States to deny,
the validity of the grant- to Maison Rouge, and the title of the
defendants under it. It was chiefly denied on .three grounds;
first, that the grant of the 20th of June, '1797, was connected
with, or supplementary to, a contract made on the 17th of
March, 1795, between the Spanish government and. Mai.on
Rouge, for the settlement of emigrant families at Washita,
the conditions of which agreement, it was contended, had not
been fulfilled by him; secondly, that the land embraced in the
grant had never been separated by a survey from the royal
domain, the one certified by Trudceau being alleged 'to be anted&ted and fraudulent; and, thirdly, that the defendant Coxe
had estopped himself from all claim under the .grant .by accepting a league square, which- was patented to him by the
United States on the 20th of December, 1842, pursuant to the
provisions of the act of Congress. of the 29th of April, 1816
(3 Stat. at Large, 328). The Circuit*Court dismissed the plea
of reconvention, found .the grant of the 20th of Jime, 1797, t9
be valid, and adjudged the title of the defendants to be good.
A full opinion was prepared, filed, and is annexed to the record,
setting forth the grounds on which the decree was made.
What error of law in these proceedings appears by the rebord
to have'been committed by the court?
No exception was taken at the trial to the opinion of the

JANUARY

TELM, 1849.

841

The United States v. King et al.

court, or to the judgmnent bills of exceptions were taken, both
by the plaintiffs and defendants, to decisions in regard to the
admission and rejection of evidence; no other exceptions appear up6n the record.
Although the decisions excepted to by the defendants are
clearly erroneous, yet it is not now material to inquire into
them, as the judgment of the court is in their favor. It would
be material so to do, if the decision of this court should be in
favor of the plaintiffs, and they entitle the defendants, in that
event, to the protection of a venire de novo, instead of a final
judgment against them, so that they may have the benefit of
the evidence of which- the decisions excepted to deprived them:
I Was there any error in law in the decisions excepted to by
the plaintiffs?
The first, fourth1 and fifth bills of exceptions have been
abandoned by the Attorney-General.
Was there any'error in law, in the form or substance of the
judgment itself,.on a review of which by this court it can be

legally reversed?
No exception has been taken to the opinion ot the Circuit
Court, or any portion of it; there is no -agreed case; there is
no agreed or reported statement. of facts; there is no testimony
reduced to writing and sent up by the clerk; there is no certificate that, all the evidence received in the Circuit Court is, directly or indirectly, before this court. If, then, there is any
error, (beyond those in the bills of exceptions already disposed
of,) it must be in the mere terms and language of 'the decree
itself. Now the rules by which this,is to be ascdrtained are
.incontrovertiblb.. So far as the decree establishes a matter of
fact, it is conclusive, and cannot be revised. Penhallow v.
Doane, 3 Dall. 102; Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 DalI. 327; Jennings
v. Thomas, 3 Dall. 336; United States v. Casks of Wine, 1
Pet. 550; Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 434; United States v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 301;, Minor v. Tillotson, 2 Hov. 394; Phillips v.
Preston, 5 How. 289. So far as the decree establishes a matter
of law dependent on a certain state of facts, it is conclusive,
.unless there be a formal exception taken to. such decision, with
a statement of all the facts necessary to its revision. Dunlop
v. Munroe, 7 Cranch, 270; Walton v. United States, 9 Wheat.
657; Parsons v. Armor, 3 Pet. 414; Carver v. Jackson, 4 Pet.
80; Hyde v. Boofaem, Il Pet. 169, 176; Phillips v. Preston, 5
How. 289; Louisiana Cod of Practice, % 488, 489, 495; Porter v. Dugat, 9 Martin, 92 4 Mollew v. Thompson, 9 Martin, 275;
Kimball v. Lopez, 7 Louis. 175. It is a presumption of law,
that if any state of facts would sustain the decree, such state
of factswas established in the Circuit Court. Campbell v. PatV L. V1I.

71

84

SUPREME COURT.
The UnitedCStates v, ° King et al.

terson, 7 Verim. 89; Butter v. Despalir, 12 Martin, '304; Mitchell
v.,White, 6 N. S. 409; Hill v. Tuzzine, 1 N. S. 599; Piedbas
v. Milne, 2 N. S-. 537; Fitz v. Cauchois, 2 N. S,265; Miller v.
Whittier, 6 Louis.. 72; Love v. Banks, 3 Louis. 481. These
rules apply as well to &decree of a court authorized to dscide
"matters of fact, as to the-Verdict of a jury.. Mayhew v. Thompson,_6 Wheat. 130; 'Livingston v. Story, 9 Pet. 656; Reynolds
.v.-Rogers, 5 Hamm. 172; Franklin Bank v. Buckingham, 12"
Ohio, 482; M'Girk v. Chpuvin, 3 Missouri, 237. Even if the
decree is obscure or defective in form, or contains what is surplusage, yet it is sufficient if it follows the issue, and finds,
affirmatively or negatively, the facts contested therein. Brown
;. Chase, 4 Mass. 436; Deering v. Halbert, 2 Litt. q92; Todd
v. Potter, 1 Day, 238; Shepherd v. Naylor, 6 Ala. 638; Keene v.

M'Donough, 8 Louis. 187.

:

• Examine- by these rules, the errors alleged to exist in the

terms and-language of tlis.decree.

First, it is said that the Circuit Court adjudicated- the title to
lands for which the United States have not sued. 'The language of the decree 'does not warrant this allegation; the dis-

missal of the plea of reconvention shows, conclusively, that
the decree was confined to the lands claimed in the petition of
the United States. The introdudtion of the title of Maison

Rouge was by the United States, 'in their petition, wherein
they declare it to be a pretended title, under which the defendants set up a claim -which they deny.' The terms of the decree
(even if obscurely expressed) are inconsistent'with any pther
judgment than that of the right of the defendant King to the
tract conveyed and warranted to him by Coxe, and so described
in Schedule A, which is the land sued for by the United States,
and no more,
Secondly, it is said that the Circuit Court .erred. in adjudicating the instrument of the 20th of June, 1797, to be a grant'
to M.aison Rouge. Now, in the first place, it is to be remarked
that the Circuit Court do not say this; their decree is, that the
.grant of land under that' instrument, and so held. by the defendants, is valid; -that their title to the possession of it, as
against the United States, is sufficiently established, and that
they ought to be quieted' in that possession. Such de'cre.es
against a claim of the.United States, in a similar action, have
been sustained by this court even wher6 the defendant has received no. formal instrument of grant whatever. United Stateg
v. Fitzgerald, 15 Peters, 420. They will, in such case, protect
an equitable as well as a strictly legal title; they, will not give
back to the United States property which has been separated
from the royal domain. But, besides, if the Circuit Court has

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

84

The United States v. King et al.

adjudged this instrument to be a valid grant, -a
complete title
in forn, -have
they erred, or, if they have erred, can-this
court revise such error ?
Even if the Circuit Court committed an error, this court cannot revise it. It is a question of fact. If the instrument- was
signed by the governor, =--if it was in the form required. by
the Spanish law, - if there was a survy ascertaining the land
granted, - if the conditions of the graiit were performed by
the graitee, -then
the instrument was *a valid grant. All
these are questions of fact; they have been 'adjudged affirmatively by the Circuit Court; 'they cannot be revised here. If
the Circuit Court erred, their error was in no sense" an error of
law; if any state of factp whatever could establish, in point of
law, such a decree as they have made, that state of facts must
be presumed, td have been proved. In any event, this decision
of the Circuit Court is not their judgment on the point at issue;
it is merely their reason for the judgment; it is mere surplusage;
if omitted entirely, the decree would still have he'en responsive
to the issue.
It is, not, then, necessary - it is not even competent - for
this court to inquire whether the grant of the 20th of June,
1797, was a valid grant, even if the point"were presented by
the icecord, which it is-not. But were that point examined, the
decree of the*Circuit Court would be fully sustained. The
power of the governor to make the grant is indisputable; and
the language of the grant is, according to the Spanish law, silch
as to convey an absolute title. United States v. Arredondo, 6
Pet. 728; United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436. It was located
by a survey, - a plano figuratvo, - made by the surveyorgeneral. The conditions contained in it were. performed; and
were formally certified so to have been by the competent Spanish authorities. - The objections - the. only objections - have
been two, both of which are futile. The genuineness of the
certificate of the surveypr-general was disputed; this objection
has been now but faizntly pressed, if not.entirely abandoned.
It rests on tlie.ex 'parteevidence of McLaughlin, Filhiol, and
Pommier, which will not stand the test of-examination. The
performance of the conditions has been denied by an ingenious
argument, which seeks to connect the grant of 1797 with th6
contrAct of 1795, though in reality the first was meant 'to supersede the last,-to take its place. The contract involved
the Spanish government in -heavy expenditures, and was particularly adverse to the policy of Morales, then becoming allpowerful in 'the' civil administration of Louisiana. It was
cofisidered by him desirable, especially after the treaty of 1795,
to promote large settlements of foreign emigrants excluding the"

844

SUPREME COURT.
The United States'v. King et aL

Americans, in that part.of Louisiana, but, at the same' time, to
avoid the heavy expenditures and numerous inconveniences of
the contract system. Hence the grants to Maison Rouge and
-Bastrop, in lieu of the previous plan of contracts and payments
by the government. To suppose that the former was a connot only untinuance of, and not a substitute for, the latter, "is
sustained by any evidence, but is adverse to the very objects
the Spanish government sought to attain.Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is one of much-interest to. the parties concerned,
and to the public.
The, peculiar practice of Louisiana, which has been adopted
in the Circuit Court for that District, has produced some embarrassment in this case. According to the laws of that State,
unless oie of the parties demurs on trial by jury, the court decides the fact as well as the law; and if the judgment is removed to a higher court for revision, the decision upon the fact
as well as the law is'open for examination in the appellate
court. The record transmitted to the Superior Court, therefore, in the. State practice,-necessarily contains all the evidence
offered in the inferior court. And as there is no distinction between courts of law and courts of equity,, the legal and' equitable rights of the parties are tried arid decided in the same
proceeding.
In the courts of the United States, however, the distinction
between courts of law and of equity is preserved in Louisiana
as well as in the other States. ,And the removal of thd case
from the Circuit Court to this court is regulated by act-of Congress, and not by the practice of Louisiana; and the writ of
error, -by'which alone a case can be removed from a Circuit
Court when sitting as a court of law, brings up for revision
here nothing but questions of law; and if the case has been
tried according to the Louisiana practice, without the intervention of jury, the decisions of the Circuit Court upon questions
of fact are as conclusive as if they had been found by the jury.
When this case was tried in the Circuit Court, neitheriparty
demanded a jury, and the' questions of fact which arose in, it
were decided by the court. The record transmitted on the
writ of error set forth all the evidence, as is usual in appeals in
the State 'courts; and it appeared that the authenticity of one
of the instruments, under which the defendants in error claimed
title, was disputed, and the conflicting evidence upon that subject stated in the record. " The Circuit Court decided that the
paper was authentic, and executed at the. time it bore date.
This question was fully.argued here, as will appear by the re-

a

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

846'

The United States v. King et aL.

port of the case in 3 Howard, 773; and the attention of the
court not having been drawn to the difference between an appeal in the State practice and the writ of error from this court,
it did not, in considering the case, advert to that distinction.
And being of opinion that the weight of evid'ence was against
the- authority of that instrument, it rejected it as not legally
admissible, and, proceeding to decide'the case as if it were not
before the court, it reversed the* judgment which the court
below had given in favor of the defendants. Upon reconsideration, however, we were unanimously of opinion, that the decision of the Circuit Court upon this question of fact must, .like
the finding of a jury, be regarded as conclusive; that the writ
of error can bring up nothing but questions of law; and that,
in deciding the question of title in this court, the paper referred
to must be treated and considered as afithentic, and suficiently
proved. And iii order that the defendants might have the
benefit of the decision in the Circuit Court, the case was reinstated in this court at the last term, to be heard and decided
upon the questions of law presented by the record, as it was
originally brought up, without prejudice from the former decision o f this court.
It has been again argued at the present term ; and the case as
it appears upon the record is this.
It is a petitory action, brought and proceeded in in the Circuit
Court, accordiig to the Louisiana State practice. The suit is
brought by the United States against Richard King, one of the,
defendants in error, for a parcel of land lying in that State,
and described in the petition. King answered, admitting that
he was in possession of the land, and claiming title to it under a conveyance with warranty from Daniel W. Coxe, the
othdr defendant; and prayed that he might be cited to appear
-and defend the suit.. On the same -day, Coxe appeared and
.answered, and alleged in his defence, that the land sued for
was part of a large tract of land which had been granted by the
Baron de Carondelei to the Marquis de Maison Rouge, by an instrument of writing, dated June 20th, 1797, which he sets out
at large in his answer; and by sundry intermediate conveyances, be deduces a title from Maison Rouge to himself for three
fourths of the entire tract. He insists that the instrument of
writing executed- by the Baron de Carondelet was a complete
grant conveying to the Marquis de Maison Rouge an indefeasible title to the land therein mentioned, and -that, from the date
of the said instrument, it ceased to be a part of the royal
domain, and became the private property of. the said Maison
Rouge. He also avers that this grant was made in consideration of services rendered by Maison Rouge in settling thirty
71*

-

846

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

emigrant families on the Washita River, in Louisiana, under a
contract made by him with the Baron de Carondelet, dated March
"17, 1795, and approved by the kiiig of Spain on the 14th of
July in the same year. And he then proceeds, in his answer,
to assume- the character of plaintiff in reconvention, and
prays that the grant pf the 20th of June, 1797, to the Marquis
*de Maison Rouge may be declared valid, and,that lhe and King
may be recognized to be the lawful owners of theparts -of the
said grant held by them, as described in the answer of King,
and in a schedule annexed to his (Coxe's) answer;-and that
they may be quieted in the ownership and possession of the
same, and that the United States may be ordered to -desist from
treating and'cofisidering any part of said grant, as designated in
a certain survey by John Dinsmnore, referred to particularly in
his answer, as public property.
Upon this issue the parties proceeded to take testimony,
which is set out in full in the record. A great part of itIis immaterial, and much of -it relates to questions of fact which
were disputed in the Circuit Court. This mode of making up.,
the record, which is borrowed from the State 'practice;-is irregular, and unnecessarily enhances the costs when a case comes up
on writ of error. In cases whereo there is no jury, the facts, as
decided by the court, ought regularly to be stated, and inserted
in the record,,provided the parties cannot agree on a Statement.
This is -most usually done by the court in pronouncing its
judgment. In this case, there is a statement by the judge who
decided- the case, containing his opinion both on the facts and
the law, and which is -attaihed to the record, and has been sent
up with it. But this opinion appears to have been filed, not only
after the suit had been ended by a final judgment,'but after, a
writ of error had been served removing the case to this court.
This- statement-of the judge cannot, therefore; bp regarded as
part of the reprd of the proceedings in the Circuit Court,
which the writ of error brings up, and cannot therefore be
resorted to as a statement of the case. And as there is no.
case stated by consent, it is necessary to examine whether the
facts upon which the questions of law arise sufficiently appear
in the record to enable this court to take cognizance- of the
case.

As we have already said, the action brought by the -Uhited
States is what, in the practice -in Louisiana, is called a petitory
action, and is in the nature of an ejectment in a court of common law. In a State '-court where there is no distinction
between courts of law and courts of equity, the plaintiff in a
petitory action might recover possession, or a defendant defend
himself, under an equitable title. But the distinction between

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

847

The United States v. King et al.

law and equity is recognized everywhere in the jurisprudence
of the United States, and prevails (as this court has repeatedly
decided) in the State of Louisiana, as well as in other States.
And if these defendants had possessed an'equitable title against
the. United States, as contradistinguished&from a legal one, it
would have been no defence to this action. But no such title
is set up, nor any evidence of it offered. The defendants
claim under what they insist is a legal title, derived by the
Marquis de Maison Rouge from the Spanish authorities.
Under the treaty with Spain, the United States acquired in
sovereignty all the lands in Louisiana which had not before
been granted by the Spanish government, and severed as private property from the royal domain. It was incumbent, therefore, upon the defendants, to show*that the land in question
'had been so granted by the Spanish authorities; otherwise the
United States were entitled to recover it.
The defendants,, in their answer, allege, that it is part of a
tract of land that was granted to the Marquis de Maison Rouge
by an.instrument of writing executed by the Baron de Carondelet in "1797. -This instrument refers to the royal order of 1795,
and the figuratire plan of Trudeau. The defendant Coxe also
refers ifi his answer to these instruments, as containing a part of
the evidence of his title-; relying upon the paper of 1795 as
showing the services which fofmed the consideration of tie instrument upon which he relies as a grant. These instruments
were all received by the Circuit Court as authentic and sufficiently proved, and are set forth at large in the record. The questionbetween the United States and the defendants is, whether,
according to the-Spanish laws at that time in force in the
province of Louisiana, the instrunient of writing dated in
1797 passed the title to the land deseribe.d in the 4gurative
,plan of Truddau'to the Marquis de Maisotli Rouge, as his pri-.
vate property.
This is a question -of law to be decided by the court. And
it is altogether immaterial to that decision. to.inquire what em'igrants were introduced by Maison Rouge, or what authority
he exercised within -the territory in question, because whatever was done by.him is admitted to have been done.under and
by virtue of the authority derived from the instruments before
mentioned; and it depends upon their construction to deter.mine whether it was done as the' agent of the. government
or as owner of the land. His acts cannot alter, their construction.
Confusedly, therefore, as this record has been made up, and
loaded as it is with irrelevanit'and unnecessary parol testimony,
the facts upon which the question of title arises are as fully be-

W8.

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al,

fore us as if they had. been set forth in the form of a case
stated; the disputed questiorr as to the authority of the plan of
Trudeau being, so far as this writ of error is concerned, finally
settled by the decision of the Circuit Court.
We proceed, then, to examine the questi6n of title, and to inquire whether the land in question was conveyed to the Marquis
de Maison Rouge by the Spanish authorities before the cession
to the Urlited States.
The paper executed in 1795 is evidently a contract to bring
emigrants into the province, and not a grant of land. But as
the instrument relied on by the defendants as a grant refers. to
this, and is founded upon it, it-is necessary to examine particularly the stipulations contained in it, in order to ascertain its
object, and to see what rights were intended to be conferred in
the land destined- for the proposed settlement, and towhom.
they were to be granted.
This agreement states that the Marquis de Maison Rouge, an
emigrant French knight, had proposed to-bring into the province
thirty families, also emigrants, for, the purpose of forming an establishment with them on the lands bordering on 'the- Washita
River, designed principally for the culture of wheat and the
manufacture of flour. And -the provincial authorities agreed to
pay to every family o-he bundred dollars for every useful laborer
or artificer in. it, to furnish guides from New Madrid or New
Orleans to the place of destination, to pay the expenses of their
transportation from, those places, and to grant to each fami'ly
containing two white persons- fit for agriculture ten arpens of
land, extending back forty arpens, and increasing in the same
proportion to those which. should contain a greater nuinber -of
white- cultivators. And European servants brought by the
emigrants, bound to serve six or more years, if" they had families, were to be entitled to grants of land, propqrtioned in the
same manner to their numbers, upon the expiration of 'their
term of service.
It will be observed, that this contract contains no. stipulation
in favor of Maison Rouge. All the. engagements on the part
of the government are in favor of the emigrants who should
accept the conditions. Indeed, it seems to have beenw.no part
of the purposes of this agreement to regulate the-compensdtion
which he was to receive for his services. Its only object, as
appears by the concluding sentence, was to make known the
offers made' by, the Spanish government to those who Were disposed to come. It was therefore to be shown by the Marquis
to those whom he invited to remove to -his establishment, and
it does not appear to have been thought necessary, and perhaps was not desirable, that his compensation or -his interest in

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

849

The United States v. King et al.

-

forming the'colony should be made public. That was a matter between him and the Spanish authorities, which doubtless
was understood on both sides. -And whether it-was to be in
money, or in a future grant of land, does not appear. Certainly
it was not to be in the land on which this establishment was
to be formed, because the government was pledged to grant it
to the colonists. The Provincial authorities, it seems; had not'
the power, by virtue of their official stations, to enter into
this agreement. After-it was drawn, it was transmitted to the
king of Spain for his approval; and he -tified and confirmed
it by a.royal order. All that was done under it, therefore, was
done under the authority of this special order, and not by virtue of any power which belonged to the provincial officers, in
virtue of the offices they held.
It is manifest from this contract, approved as it was by the
king, that Spaim was at that. time partitcularly, anxious to
strengthen herself in Louisiana, on the Washita River, by emigrants from Europe. It is a matter of history, that, at that
period, the political agitations .in Frande and the neighbouring
nations on the, continent of Europe induced many to emigrate.
These emigrants were, for the most part, persons who were attach - to the ancient order of things, or who were alarmed or
dissatisfied with the changes which.rere taking place around
them, and consequently were precisely of that character, and
imbued with those political feelings, which the Spanish government would prefer in the colonists who settled -in the province
of Louisiana. The very liberal ahd unusual terms offered in
this contract shows its anxiety on the subject. Its evident object was to obtain a body of agriculturists froni the continent
of Europe, who would settle together under one common leader,
in whom the government could confide, and form a colony or
establishment of themselves.
Such a colony, in sufficient
numbers to afford some degree of protection against Indian
marauders, would, by opening, cultivating, and improving the
place of-their settlement, create inducements to others of their
friends or countrymen to. join them, and thus promote te
early settlement of that part of the province, which this agreement shows 'he Spanish government was anxious, to accomplish.
The Marquis de. Maisoti Rouge, it seems, from his position
as an emigrant French knighf, was regarded as a suitable person to be employed in forwarding this policy. What were his
peculiar duties is ;not defined in this agreement; but it appears that he was to make known the offers bf the government,
and select the colonists-, and superintend the settlement and
formation of the establishment. It is too plain to be question-.

-

850

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et aL

ed, that, in doing this, he was, by the agreement, to act as the
agent of the government, and hot as the proprietor of the land.
The contract specifies no particular place. on the Washita.
It merely provides that it should be on the lands bordering on
that river. -And the Spanish authorities, in their desii-e to
settle that part of the province, -- as these unusual offer' so
clearly evince, - would f naturally be ready to, make grants to
others. ',There was danger, therefore, that the unity of the
establishment of Maison Rouge might be broken in 'upon by
intervening grants to persons with whom he had no connection, and wh9, as they did not come under his auspices, might
not be disposed to submit to his superintendence, or acknowledge the authority which the Spanish government had conferred on him. The success of his establishment might thus
be endangered. There was another omission; He contracted
to bring in thirty families. It. might well be doubted, under
the terms of this agreement, whether the promises-of the
government extended beyond that number; and others might
be deterred from coming, under the impression that they would
not reap the like.advantag6s. These omissions were calculated
to embarrass the establishment; and retard its success. Indeed,
it appears by the figurative plan of Trudeau, that grants to others had then already been made:in the territory there marked
out; and it 'will, appear, we think, upon examining the instru.ment of 1797, that, these were the omissions it intended to
supply, and the difficulties- it intended to remove. It was to
carry the plan of 1795 into more: perfect execution, not to make
a grant to ]4aison Rouge.
, It begins by reciting that the Marquis de Maison Rouge had
nearly completed the -establishment on the Washita which he
was authorized to niake by .the royal order of 1795, and. then
assigns, as a reason for executing this instrument, the desire to
remove for the future all doubts respecting biher families or
new colonists that might-come to establish themselves. This
is the only motiv.e assigned, and therefore was the only object
which this paper was intended to accomplish. The doubt had
arisen under the contract of 1795, and that doubt did not con1cern Maison Rouge nor the thirty families which he had contracted to bring, but other families and new colonists that
might come to establish themselves. And in order to -remove
these doubts, it destines and appropriates for*the establishment
aforesaid the thirty superficial leagues marked in the plan of
Trudeau, under the terms and conditioiis.stipulated and contracted for by'the said Maison -Rouge. That is to say, it'Appropriates a large tract of country, far beyond. the wants of the
'thirty families, in :order to show that there would be room for

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

851

The- United States v. King et al.

the other families or new colonists. It is to be for the 'exclusive use of the colony which Maison Rouge was to establish,
to prevent the apprehension of disturbance from other persons;
and it is declared to-be under the same terms and conditions,
in order to satisfy those other families, or new colonists, that
the liberal provision made for the thirty families would also be
extended to them.. And the instrument also states that this
territory is appropriated for "1the establishment,aforesaid," that
is, for the establishment authorized by the, contract of 1795,
and not for one to be made under a new contract; and it further states; that it is made by virtue of the powers granted by
the king, evidently- referring to the royal order which was
before mentioned in this instrumenit, and showing that the provincial officers who'signed it were acting under special author.ity, and not under their general powers to grant land. Every
expression in this irstrument indicates that it was executed to
remove doubts which might arise under the previous contract,
and to carry that plan into full effect.. There is not a word or
provision in it which implies that there were any doubts about
the *rightsof Maisou Rouge under his contract, or that he was
to have any other rights under this than were given to him by
his former agreement. .The land is appropriated for "1the
establishment aforesaid." In other words, it was to be the
same establishment, with the same rights, but -with limits more
distinctly defined, and the rights of other families and new
colonists who might unite themselves with the original thirty
more clearly recognized.
It is said that the last instrument should be construed by
itself, as distinct from the previous contract, and that the contract of 1795 -was referred to merely to show the services
which were rendered under it by the Marquis de. Maison
Rouge, as.the consideration upon which this grant was made
to him. It is a sufficient answer to this argument to say, that
the last instrument, in express terms, states that the motive for
making it was to remove doubts in the former one as to other
families and new colonists, and consequently could not have
been designed to be an independent agreement, conferring new
rights upon Maison Rouge alone; It in. effect negatives the
idea, that the first 'Was regarded as a mere consideration; for
upon such an interpretation, there would be n6 doubts to be
removed as to the new colonists. They would have no interest in it. There would be the certainty that the services bad
been rendered by MWison Rouge, and that this instrument
intended. to reward him.. Beid6s, the last instrument would
be unmeaning and unintelligible without xeferring to. the
first.'.and construing them together. It would be impossi-

852

.SUPREME

COURT.

The U.nited States v. King et aL
ble, without taking the two agreements'together, to understand
from "the Ist what was meant by the. establishment of the
Marquis de Maison Rouge, or how it was to be formed, or what
were to be the privileges of the new colonists, or what were
the conditions contracted for by Maison Rouge. None of these'
things are specified. -in the instrument of 1797. It refers for
them to the former contract.
But if this instrument is.taken by itself, and regarded as independent -of the other, it contains no 'Words of grant, none.
of the words 'which were emplo~red in the colonial Spanish
grants which intended to sever the land from the royal domain, and to convey 'it as individual private proprty. It is
.true that the Spanish bolonial grants are in general more summary and brief than common law conveyances. But they are
by no means loosely or carelessly expressed; and it must not
be supposed that they are ambiguous because they are brief.
On the contrary, the intention to, convey is always expressed
in lear and distinct terms. And' these grants, like the patents
for land. issued by tthe government in this country; appear ,to
have been prepared by officers of the government well acqudinted with- the coIoni~l usages and forms. 'Thus, for exI ample; in-the case of Arredondo and Son, reported in 6 Peters,
694, where the grant was for a large tradt, upon condition thatthe parties should. at their own expense establish two hundred
families upon it, it is expressly stated, that the land was granted according to'the figurative plat, "in order that they may.
possess the..same as their own property, and- enjoy it .as the'
exclusive owners thereof."
It cannot be supposed that a grant of thirty superficial
leagues, far beyond the quantity, usually conveyed "to an individual, would have been carelessly drawn in new and 'unusual
terms, calculated to create doubts, and that established forms
and usages would be disregarded and needlessly departed from.
Certainly there is every reason to believe; that, if this land was'
intended to be conveyed to the Marquis de Maison Rouge, that
intention -would have been expressed vith- at least ordinary
lperspicuity. Yet, among the many cases of Spanish colonial
grants which have come before this court, we are not aware of
one, great. or small, in which a paper in language resembling
'this has. ever before been produced and claimed as a grant.
The note at the foot of this instrument has been relied on
to prove that-it was intended to be a grant. We think it is
not susceptible of that construction, and that its language
proves the contrary. The note is 'a short one, and merely
-says, that, "in conformity with his contract, the Marquis de
Maison Rouge is not to admit or establish any American on

JANUARY

TERM, .1849.

853

The United States v. King et al.

the lands included in his grant." The lands mentioned in this
note are undoubtedly the lands described in the body of the
instrument, and his establishment was to be formed on them.
The note apprises him, that, in doing so, he must conform to
his contract, and not admit any American. There was therefore a preexisting contract in relation 'to this settlemenR, by
which the rights of the parties were definel, and by -which
Maison Rouge was prohibited from- admitting or establishing
-Americans upon- this land. The contractieferred, io-is evidently the contracf of 1795. We hear of no other. '- Tbhe -thirty.
families "which Maison Rouge was to introduce jinder that
agreement were to be emigrants, - Europeans-; -aid-he is. to
conform to this stipulation, in introducing the -*other.. families
and new colonists, in the thirty superficial leagues marked out
on Trudeau's plan. They were not to be. Americans. The
establishment formed on this land was therefore to be made
under the contract of 1795, and the rights of both parties regulated by it. The note in question' was appended, because
the body of the instrument referred only to the undertakings
of the government, and without this note Maison Rouge
.might have regarded himself as absolved from his agreement
as to the character of the additional or new .colonists. But
how- could he be required to conform to his contract, unless
the contract spoken of was to be carried into eFecution upon
this territory? The words, "lands included in his grant,"
which are used in the note, mean nothing more than the lands
set apart and appropriated by this instrument for his establishment; and to give them any other meaning would make this
brief note unmeaning, and inconsistent with itself. He was
not to admit or establish Americans in the territory destined
and appropriated for the establishment which he -was to form,
under the contract of 1795,- that contract- requiring this
establishment to be formed of emigrants. This appears to be
the plain meaning of this note, and we can -see nothing in it
that will justify a different construction, or give any reason to
suppose that a grant was intended to Maison Rouge .as his
private property.
It is objected, also, that the decision of the Circuit Court,
upon the question of title, is not brought here by the writ of
error, because no exception was taken to it in the court below:
But no exception can be taken where there is no jury, and
where the question of law is decided in deliveringthe ,final
judgment of the court. It is hardly necessary to-refer to authorities on this point; but it may be proper to say, that in
Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters, 427, and in another
case which we. shall presently notice, this court have .held,
VOL. VII.
72 '

854-

SU9PREME COURT..
The United States v. King et aL_

-

that, where the Circuit Court decides, as in this case, both the
fact and the law, no exception can regularly, be taken. 1Ivbn
in a court of common law, an exception is. never taken to the
judgment of the court upon a case stated, or on a special verdict; yet the judgment is subject to revision in the appellate.
court. The same rule must prevail where the facts upon
which the inferior court decided appear in the record ; - like a
case stated, the question in the superior court necessarily is,
whether the judgment of the' court below was erroneous or.
not upon the facts before it,. as they are certified in the
record.
. Under this view of the subject, which brings the question of
right directly before us for decision, it is-perhaps hardly 'necessary to 'say any thing as to the manner in which the judgment
was entered in the Circuit Court., But -if the defence of King
could have been maintained, yet" the language in which. the
judgment was rendered is open to serious objection. It may
-have been intended to cover only the land-in controversy in the
suit against King. But it may well bear the construction of
being not only a judgment in favor of King, but also in favor
Df Coxe, for the large portion of this territory to which he claims
title in his answer, and for which he became plaintif in reconivention against the United States under the Louisiana practice.
In- the opinion before mentioned, .which was filed by the judge
after the case had been removed by writ of error, he -states -that
he overrules the plea- in reconvention because it. ilaced the
United States in the attitude of a defendant as to the land thus
claimed. This decision is undoubtedly right. But yet in the
judgment, as stated in the record, -the plea in reconvention is
not overruled, and its language would rather seem to imply
that it was a judgment against the United'States in favor of
-Coxe fof the land claimed by him in reconvention, ds *ell as infavor of King for the land sued for "by the United States.IIf

this is the meaning of the judgment, it woula be obviously

erroneous, even if King had made good his defence.. But it is
unnecessary to decide what is it legal construction, because,
in either view of it, the judgment is erroneous, and must be
reversed,
Neither is it necessary to examine in *detail the%exceptions
taken at the trial to the admission of testimony. In some un-importani particulars, the evidence objected to. was, not admissible. But where. the court decides the fact and the law with-a
out the intervention of a jury, the admission, of 'illegal. testimony,'even if material, is not of itself a ground for reversiig
the judgment, nor.is it properly the'subject of a bill of exceptions. If evidence appears to. have been improperly admitted,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

855

The United States v. King et al.

the appellate court will reject it, and proceed to decide the
case as if it was not in the record. - This is the rule laid down
in the case of Field et al. v. The United States, 9 Pet. 202, and
is undoubtedly the correct one. It is certainly -proper, where
evidence supposed not to be legal is received by the court, to
enter on the record that it was -objected to. But this is done to
show that it was not received by consent, and a formal bill of
exceptions is not requred to bring it to the notice of the superior court. It may, however, be done in that form, if the parties and the court think proper to adopt it; and the objections
have been so stated in this case, in conformity, we presume,
with the Louisiana practice. But as the material evidence in
the case was all legally before the Circuit Court, it would be
useless to examine whether errors were committed as to.portions of it which are altogether unimportant. And this court
being of opinion, for the reasons hereinbefore siated, that this
instrument of writing relied on by the defendants did not
convey, or intend to convey, the land in question to the Marquis
de Maison Rouge, the judgment of the Circuit Court 'must be
reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a
.judgment for the United States for the land described in their
petition.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice
McKINLEY, and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented from this
opinion. Mr. Justice McLEAN and Mr. Justice WAYNE fied
opinions in writing, as follows.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
Had not' my brother judges pronounced the above opinion, I
should not have supposed there could be any difficulty in determining the character and effect of the grant in question.
Being in the minority, I shall only state some of the grounds
on which my opinion has been formed.
The validity of the grant depends upon the laws of Spain in
1797, the time it .bears date. Those laws were fdreign, and
are required to be proved. The incorporation of Louisiana into
the Union cannot affect this principle. The treaty of cession
and the acts of Congress subsequently enacted, recognizing private rights in the ceded territory, only reiterated the well-established principles of the laws of nations. In the language of the
act of Congress, we are to look "to the laws and ordinances of
the government under which the elaim 'originated."
On the 17th of March, 1795, the Baron de Carondelet, Governor
of Louisiana, and others, entered into a contract with the Marquis de Maison Rouge, which was sanctioned by the king of

'856

SUPREME COURT.

-

The United States v. King'et aL

Spain, to bring into "these provinces thirty families, emigrants,
for the purpose of forming an establishment with them on the
lands bordering upon the Washita, designed principally for the
culture of wheat," &c., on the following conditions:-lst.
Two hundred dollars to .be paid out of the royal treasury for
every family composed of two persons fit for agriculture, &c.,
four hundred dollars to those having four laborers, andl in the
,same proportion for a less number. " 2d. A guide to be ffirnishdd them. 3d. Their transportation to be paid, not exceeding three thousand pounds- to each family. 4th- Ten arpens
of land, extending back forty arpens, for a family of two laborefs, and in the 'same proportion for a greater number. 5th.
Other privileges.
The Marquis performed much labor, and consequently incurred much expense, in ihe fulfilment of the contract. And
on the 20th of June, 1797, the Baron de Carondelet andiAndres
Lopez Armesto executed to the - Marqiis the following instrument: - " Forasmuch as the Marquis de Maison Rouge is near
completing the establishment of the Washita, which he was
,authorized to-,make for thirty families, by the royal order of
July 14th, 1795, and desirous to remove for the future all
doubt respecting other families or new colonists who may come
to establish themselves, we destine and appropriate conclusively
for the establishment of the aforesaid Marquis de Maison Rouge,
,by virtue of the powers granted to us- by the Yung, the thirty
superficial leagues marked in the plan annexed 'to the head of
this instrument, with the limits and boundaries designated,
with our approbation, - by the Surveyor-General, Don Carlos
Lareau Trudeau, under the terms and conditions stipulated and,
contracted by the said Marquis de .Maison Rouge," &c.
d Note, that, in conformity with his contract, the Marquis
Ae Maison Rouge is, not to admit or establish any-American in
the lands included in his grant."
The certificate of the surveyor, Carlos Trudeau, laid down
the surveys with precision, stating the superficial total at two
'hundred and eight thousand three- hundred- and forty-four superficial arpens, equal -.to thirty leagues, &c. And the surveyor adds: -- "It being well understood that the lands included "in the foregoing plats, which are held by titles in
form, or by virtue of afresh decree of commissioni arehot to
compose a part of-ihe thirty .degrees; on the contrary, the
Marqqis of Maison Rouge promises .not to injure any of the
said occupants, promising to maintain and support them in all
their iights, since if it should happen that the said thirty leagues
should suffer any diminution of the land occupied, there will be
no objection br inconvenience. to the said Marquis de Maison

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

87

The United Statei v. 'King et aL

Rouge's completing or making up. the deficiency in any other
place where there are. vacant lands, and to the satisfaction of
the concerned."
This survey, being annexed to the patent and referred to in
it, constitutes a part of the grant, with the conditions specified.
The error in the argument seems to be in supposing.this
grant to have been issued in fulfilment of the contract of. 1795.
The grant was in no way connected with that contract, except.
as showing the consideration on which the grant was' made to
•the Marquis, and with the express view of relieving the royal
treasury, which was often without funds, from the charges imposed by the contract. Charles Tessier, now a judge in Louisiana, was chief clerk in the land-office, and who made 'out the
grant, states, that "Rendon and Morales successively'filled the
* office of 'intendant,' and being charged viith the public finances,
which were, greatly embarrassed for want of money, they made
difficulties about paying for the families'which Maison Rouge
introduced and was authorized to introduce, and tried to get
rid of farther advances to Maison Rouge.",- And the witness
says the land was not worth so much as the expenses'of the
government might amount to in. the end. And J. Mercier,
another witness, confirms the statement of Tessier.
The truth of these statements is sustained by the words of
the grant,. The royal order of 1795 being referred to, the grant
states: - "And desirous to remove for the future 'all doubt re.specting. other families or new colonists who may come to establish themselves, we desfine and appropriate conclusively for the
establishment of the'aforesaid Marquis'de Maison Rouge," &c.
Now it must be observed that the Marquis was the mere agent
of the government under the contract of 1795. He was to.
have no ihterest in the land, nor did the government, in the
contract', propose to pay im for his services. That this enterprise was deemed one of great importance is shown by the
gratuity of land and money given by the government 'to fa rilies, and also in agreeing to pay the expense of their transportation. And, the government being -" desirous to remove for the
future all doubt respecting other families or new colonists who
may come to establish themselves," &c. These were no part of
the families under the first contract, but "other families." 'So
that the' families or colonists which should come under the
grant were not to come under the contract, but to settle under
the.grant, having no claim on'the government. This"relieved
the royal treasury from any further embarrassment on accouint
of the contract- of 1795, and removed all doubts in regard to
such settlers.
72*
-

858

SUPREIE COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

But the land was grated to the Marquis de Maison Rouge,
.subject only to the terms of the grant And of those specified' in
the certificate of the surveyor, which were incorporated into the
grant. The conditions thus expressed were, that the Marquis
should not admit "any American in the lands included in his
grant." And he was to protect the rights of those who had a
good title to ,lands within his grant, and should receive other
lands in lieu of those thus held. These two conditions consfi-.
tuted the contract referred to, I have no doubt, in the note affixed to the grant. There was, then, no connection betveen
the grant and the contract of 1795, except as the latter showed
the meritorious services'of the Marquis, which constituted, in
part at least,, the'consideration cif the grant.
But was-this instrument a grant? Under the common law
it was not a grant, but it is one under the civil law. If the instrument separates the land fror the public domain, and appropriates it to the use of aft individual, it is a grant. No wbrd§ of
inheritance or terms of grant are necessary by the civil law.
In this grant the words are, "We destine and appropriate conclusively for the establishment of the aforesaid Marquis," &.c.
Now these terms appropriate the land described "conclusively."
Nothing. could be.more specific than this. It separates the land
designated in the plat from the lands in the crown, and no subsequent condition was annexed. He had nearly completed the
establishment of the Washita under the contract of 1795, and
for these services the grant was made. If the grant had required the Marquis to do -certain things, as to settle a number
of families, there would be some apparent ground to say, that'.
he, or those claiming inder him, must show a preformance of
the condition. But even in such a case the grant would be
good, for the cession of the pountry by Spain to France, and
by France to the United States, within a short time afte'r the
grant, would have'excused the performance of such. a condition.
It -oud be strange indeed if our governnent should require
the performance of a condition which exclut ,s our own citizens
from benefits, and gives them to foreigners. This point has
been 'decided in the case of Arredondo.
But the most conclusive answer to this view is, that the
grant required no such condition, and that, in this respect, it has
no connection with the contract of 1795. That contract, by
this grant, was admitted to be nearly completed, and there was
no requirement ,that it should be completed. It was found
-burdensome to the' treasury, and was abandoned. Under 'that
contract, titles were madeto the settlers and not to the Marquis: And the land for ihe thirty families would have required
a small tract in comparison with that covered by the grant.

JANUARY TERM

1849.

The United States v. King et al.

This instrument, it is said, does not -purport to be a grant.
If this be so, those who issued it, and all others who have offi-,
cially and professionally examined 'it heretofore, have been
strangely mistaken. Charles Tessier, who was a principal clerk
in the office of the Spanish government of Louisiana for making
grants of land, and who made out this grant, says it "was de-nominated and considered as a titulo en forna, arid was such
complete .and perfect evidence of title as not to require any
other to validate or strengthen it." 3. Mercier, who was a
clerk in the land-office with Tessier,, also states that it is a^
grant. Both of these persons, from their public duties, must
have been as well acquainted with the forms of 'titles then
used, and indeed better, than any other persons.. And this is a
matter of fact to 'be.established.
The. commissioners appointed by the government to investigate land titles in Louisiana reported, in 1812, "that the instrument under date of the 20th- June, 1797, is a patent, or
what was usually, in Louisiana, dbnominated a title in form."
This claim being before the House of Representatives in
-1817, a committee reported, that they "are of opinion that it is
a legal and formal title, according to the laws and usages of the
.province of Louisiana." Other reports were made by a committee of the Senate confirmatory of the grant. The confirmation of the claim to a league square, by Congress, was a recognition of the grant. On no other supposition could the act of
the 29th of April, 1816, confirming the league square, have
been passed.
There can be no question that this grant would have been
held valid' under the Spanish government, and, both by the,
treaty of dession and the laws of nations, it must be held valid
by this government. The largeness of the claim can be no
objection to it. Tracts as large were given, for services, less
meritorious -than those rendered by the Marquis de Maison
Rouge, by the Spanish goverufient. Grants were made, under
that government, for seivices, civil or military, performed or to
be performed. And there was no service deemed more 'meri'torious by Spain, except military service, than that of estab.'
lishing colonies, reducing the country to cultivation, constructing mills, and other improvements. The quantity granted was
left generally to .the discretion of the governor or other officer
who represented his sovereign in making the grant.
. If this instrument be a grant which would have' beei held
valid by the Spanish government, then we are bound in good
faith so to consider it. And: I cannot entertain any doubt that
it is a compldte grant; and therefore I dissent from the decision of a majority of the court.

8SUPREME

COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

,Mr. Justice WAYNE.
Four of us do not concur with the majority of the judges in
the judgment given by them in this case.
I will now give my reasons -fornot doing so, comprehending
in what I shall say, as well I can, those objections which were
urgedj in our consultations upon the case, by Messrs. Justices
McLean, McKinley, and Grier, against the judgment.
Apart from every consideration connected with the intrinsic
validity of the grant, and the defendants' title under it, I regard
this judgment as unwarranted either by the case presented on
the record, by t#4 conduct and decision of this court in respect
to it.at the last term, or by the course and argument of counsel- which have necessarily resulted from, and been limited by,
that decision. Besides; in my view, it does injustice to other
parties, now regularly before the court, who were entitled to
be heard, according to our rules and practice, before a decision
was made which, in effect, decides their rights, and takes what
may be their property from th~m, without a hearing.
IOn these grounds I dissent from the judgment. But in addtion to them, the .evidence'on the record, imperfect as it may
seem to be to others as to the intrinsic merits of the. defendants' title, - for that point does not purport to be now present-T
ed f6r our adjudication, -is yet sufficient to satisfy me that the
grant to the Marquis de Maison Rouge is, in form and substance,
genuine, valid, and complete, conferring upon him, and those
who claim under him, a just and perfect title under the treaty
by which Louisiana was ceded to the United States.
This suit was a petitory action, brought by the United States
in the Circuit Court of "Louisiana, in the year 1843, to recover
from the defendant, Richard King, a tract of land of 4,606
acres, lying on the west side of the Washita River, in that State.
The defendant denied that the-United States. had -any title -to
the land; and he further prayed, in accordance with the law
and practice of Louisiana, that, as he derived his title by purchase from Daniel W. Coxe, who had warranted it, he might
be cited as warrantor, and made a party defendant in the suit.
Coxe came in and filed -his-answer. He also denied that the
United States had any title to the land; and he further alleged,
that the tract in controversy was part-of a large body of land
to which his own title was a valid one, derived from the Marquis de-Maison Rouge, who was aninhabitant of Louisiana, to
Whom the Spanish government had granted it in due form, anil
in whom it was legally vested previous to the treaty of the 30th
of April, 1803, which ceded that territory to the.United States,
and 'guarantied to the inhabitants the full enjoyment of their
property. In his answer, he further put in a plea of "recon-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

861

The United States-v. King et aL

venti6n," also in accordance with the law and practice of Louisiana, wherein he asked, to be quieted in his own title to the
whole grant, against the United -States; and he annexed a
statement, marked Schedule A, in which the different tracts
sold by him since he became the purchaser were particularly
set forth, among which was that conveyed to the defendant
King, for the recovery of which the suit was brought.
By the Code of Procedure of Louisiana, (Art. 494. 495,) the
mode of proceeding in which must, by the provisiQns of the
act of Congress of the 26th of May, 1824, (4 Stat at Large,
63,) regulate the practice of the courts of the United States in
that district, either party is entitled to a trial by jury; but if
that mode is not preferred, the issue of fact, as well as of law,
is to be tried by the court, the finding of the facts by the
court being, in that bvent, equivalent to the verdict of a jury.
This was done in the present case.
In the summer of 1843, the defendant and warrantor, Coxe,
being anxious for the termination of the suit, entered into an
agreement, which appears on the record, (page 80,) whereby it
was stipulated that it should be immediately set down for trial,
and he consented tothe admission of much documentary evidence, chiefly derived from, or appended to, reports of committees of Congress. Among these documents was a pamphlet
published by a person of the name of Girod, who was an adverse claimant -to - tract of land alleged to be within the Maison Rouge grant; and also several depositions, annexed to the
pamphlet, which purported to have been legally taken in suits
that had been instituted many years before against, the defendant Coxe.. It was also stipulated by the agreement, that bills
of exceptions might be taken by either party, not only during'
the actual trial, but even after the decision, until the record, if
there should be a writ of error, was transmitted to this court.
When the trial came on, the plea of -reconvention put in by
the warrantor was dismissed by the court, "-because, under the
practice of Louisiana, it is to be regarded in the light of a new
suit, and consequently places the government in the attitude of
a defendant before the court." (Record, 182.)
In addition to the documentary evidence admitted by the
agreement, a number of. persons were examined at the bar.
Their testimony appears to. have been mainly directed to establish the genuineness and authenticity of the grant of Baron
Carondelet to Maison. Rouge, and of the piano figurativo of
Trudeau, the surveyor-general, which was annexed to it;, to
rebut the contrary evidence derived from Girod's pamphlet, and
which was supposed to exist in'the old depositions printed with
'it; and to show the complete validity of the grant in question,

862

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

so far as it depended on the Spanish laws and the recognized
and 'settled practice of the Spanish government. None of the
oral testimony -and there were seven or eight witnesseswas reduced to-writing, or appears in any shape or form upon
the record.
After a trial, which occupied several days, the Circuit Court
found and decreed the grant of the 20th of June, 1797, to be
a valid instrument, and adjudged the title under it of the defendant King, and Coxe, his warrantor, to be legal and good to
the tract mentioned in the answer of the former, and in Schedule A annexed tb that of the latter. This, under the law and
practice. of Louisiana, was a complete and definite finding .by
the court of the facts at issue, - equivalent to the verdict of a
II
jury.
No opinion was delivered by the court at the time this decree was given, but one was subsequently prepared and filed,
and is annexed to the record. It presents in a cogent and succinct manner, but more in detail, the matters of fact, of which'
the decree gives the summary result; and shows that they were
founded on very full evidence, oral as well as documentary,
.and especially that the testimony derived from Girod's pamphlet was, in the opinion of the court, conclusively disposed
of by that of "persons who had equal, if not better, opportunities of acquiring a knowledge of the facts set forth."
No exception was taken 9n the behalf of the United States to
any portion of this opinion,, although the agreement gave full
power to counsel to do so at any stage of the legal proceedings.
In the progress of the trial, however, five bills of exceptions
were taken by the counsel of the United States to the rulings
of the court, and three by the defendants. Upon the latter it
is unnecessary to express an opinion, as th6 judgment was in
favor of the defendants, further than to remark, that, if it had
been otherwise, they might have afforded a sufficient ground
for its reversal.
The bills of exceptions on the part of the United States did
not embrace any error in the opinion of the court, or in its decision of any legal point arising out of the validity of the grant,
or its construction, or the Spanish law or practice in relation to
such instruments, but were confined exclusively to the rejection and admission by the court of certain documentary evidence. To each bill of exceptions was annexed, separately
and distinctly, the testimony connected with it and necessary
to a decision upon it.
A writ of error was issued in behalf of the United States,
returnable to this court at Decdmber term, 1843.
With
this writ of error were returned not only the five bills of

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

863

The United States v. King et al.

exceptions taken by the counsel of the United States, with the
evidence embraced therein, but also the three bills of exceptions
taken by the defendant. This, however, formed but a small part
of the errors of the clerk of the Circuit Court in making up and
returning the Tecord. To these bills of exceptions he annexed a
great mass of documentary testimony, a large part of which consisted of, printed pamphlets, and among them the pamphlet of
Girod, with its appendix; but whether all even of the documentary testimony which had been exhibited at the trial was embraced, did not appear; "and it is certain that no portion whatever of the parol evidence had been reduced to writing, or was
embraced: in the record, 4lthough the judge had expressly relied
upon it as contradicting the allegations in the documentqxy
evidence' It also contained evidence on the part of the defendant, to prove that the grant in question was a valid grant, according to the Spanish laws and practice in regard to such official acts.
On this singular record, the case was argued before this court
on th6 24th of February, 1845. The opinion of the court (3
Howard, 773) was against the validity of the grant, the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the cause was
remanded to it "for further proceedings to be had thereon in
conformity'with the opinion of the court."
In the argument of the case, reference was largely had to the
documentary evidence improperly introduced into the record;
and the plaintiffs' bills of exceptions, which alone were properly
before the court, were scarcely adverted to.
The opinion of the cotirt was put upon the fact, which it
considered established by the testimony, that the certificate of
Trudeau, or the planofigtrativo,annexed to the grant, was antedated and fraudulent ; and that therefore, if the grant itself
was a gen .iine instrument, it had not "the aid of an authentic
survey to ascertain and fix the limits of the land, and to determine its location." This opinion in regard to the genuineness
of the certificate of Trudeau was thus expressed: - " After an
attentive scrutiny and collation of the whole testimony, we
think it is perfectly clear that this certificate of Trudeau is
antedated and fraudulent; and we refer to the evidence of
Pilhiol, McLaughlin, and Pommier, as establishing conclusively
that the actual survey, upon which this certificate was made
out, did not take- place until December, 1802, and January,
1803 ; and that the one referred to by the goveraor in the
paper of 1797 (the alleged grant) was for land in a different
place, and higher up the Washita River. We are entirely convinced that the survey now produced was not made in the lifetime of the Marquis of Maison Rouge, who died in 1799, but
after his death, and at the instance of Louis Bouligny, who, ac-

864

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Eting et aL

cording to the laws of Louisiana, was' what is thera termed the
forced heir of the Marquis; and that it wac made in anticipation and expectation'of the cession of the country to the United
States, the negotiations upon that subject being then actually
pending, and the treaty of cession signed on the 30th of April,
1803. We see no reason to doubt the truth of the witnesses
to whom we have referred. On the contrary, they are supported by the testimony of other witnesses, and by various
circumstances detailed-in the record."
It will be seen from this opinion, that the judgment of the
reversal of this court was not founded upon any error of law
presented in the bills of exceptions in the record, nor even
upon any facts stated in those bills of exceptions; but that
it was purely a judgment on the facts of the case, different
fropa that which was found by-the. Circuit Court of Louisiana,
sitting without a jury, and found mainly upon the -old depositions of three witnesses, which are in. the appendix to Girod's
printed pamphlet. Neither in the judgment, nor in the opinion
of the court, did I concur at that time..
Upon the return of the record, with this opinion,, to the Circuit Court of Louisiana, on the 9th of May, 1845, the attorney
of the United States moved that the case should be taken up
for final decision. The attorney of the defendant, on the
other hand; moved for a new trial, and prayed for a jury; and
in an affidavit, it was sternly urged upon the court, that, in the
previous trial, the case had b'een prepared, and conducted under
the belief of the law being well -settled, that, in a petitory action, in which neither party called for a jury, the finding- of
the facts by the court would be considered by the Supreme
Court as equivalent to a, special verdict, and- would not be
reversed, except so- far as they might be brought up by bills
of exceptions. The affidavit then went on to show, not only
that several witnesses, whose- testimony was not reduced to
writing, had -prbved the genuineness of the certificate of
Trudeau, and his unimpeachable official and private character, but that the very depositions of Filhiol, McLaughlin, and
Pommier, from which the Supreme Court took the facts on
which it mainly relied, discarding from them the finding of the
Circuit Court, were exparte, and had been taken without notice
to, or the knowledge of, the claimants under the Marquis of
Maison Rouge. The affidavit then alleged that the defendants
could again prove before the jury, and corroborate with additisnal evidence, the facts which had been. found by the court
upon the former trial.
The Circuit Court overruled the application, and ordered a
.final judgment to be -entered for the United States, and against

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

$65

'The United States v. King et al.

-

-

the defendant, regarding the judgment and opinion of' the'
Supreme Court as a final one against the validity of the grant,
and being commanded by its decree to "proceed according
to that judgment and opinion." To this judgment a general
exception was taken, and the case came again before this courton a writ of error, -and was argued at the fast term, December
15th, 1847. This argument has not been reported, probably
because no formal decree of reversal or affirmance was mhade.
It embraced, however, an elaborate view of the whole course
of proceeding which had occurred, and made it apparent, that,
in the statement of the merits of the case in the previous opinion of the Supreme Court, great error'had been committed inthe assertion of facts; and that, in rejecting the finding of the
Circuit Court as conclusive evidence of -the facts, and in permitting an inquiry into errors of law not made the subject of
bills of exceptions, there had been a deviation equally great
from the well-settled'decisions of this court.
The.iuit was not, as this court admitted in its decision, "a
controversy. in a court -of equity, but in a: court of law-; the
petitory action brought by the United States in the Circuit'
Court of Louisiaha being in the nature of an action of ejectment." -3 How. 787.
No point has been more repeatedly and authoritatively set-tled, than that this court will not, upon a wfit of error, revise.
or give judgment as to the facts, but takes them as found by
tie court below, and as they are exhibited by the record. Penhallow v. Doane, 3 Dall. 102 ; Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dall. 327 ;
Jennings v.Thomas, 3 Dall. 336; Talbot v. Seaman, 1 Cranch,
38; Faw v. Roberdeau, 3 Cranch, 177; Dunlop v. .Munroe, 7
Cranch, 270; United States v. Casks of Wine, 1 Peters, 550.
The case of Parsons v. Bedford, 3- Peters, 434, was, like the
present, a petitoryr action, instituted in the' District Court of
Louisiana, and brought for review to this court, on a writ of
error aia bill of exceptions. It differed in one respect, -the
facts were found by a jury: The parol evidence, however, had
not been written or entered upon the record, although requested
by the plaintiff. That refusal was made the ground of an exception. This court decided that it was no error, not merely
because the refusal was not matter of error, but because,-" if
the evidence were before the court, it would not be competent
for them to reverse the judgment for any error in the verdict of
the jury."
By *the, Code of - Practice of Louisiana, (Art. 494, 495,)
which, under the act of 24th of May, 1824, (4 Stat. at Large,
63,) is also the law by which the courts of the United States
are governed, the decree of the Circuit Court upo4. the facts
VOL. v11.
73/

866

'SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. King et aL
was in all respects equivalent to the verdict of a jury; and the
pripoiple thus established by .this court would be equally applicable to it. It was so held in Parsons v. .Armor, 3 Peters,
425, where the parties had waived the trial by jury, and the
case was. brought up by writ of error, the court saying it was
certainly not an attribute of that writ, according to the coinmon law doctrine, to submit the testimony, as well as the lTw
of the case, to the revision of the court.
. In the year. 1842, the effect which-was to be given to. the
judgment of the" court in Louisiana, asserting a conclusion of
facts where a jury had been waived, was deliberately considered in the case of Hyde v. Booraem, 16 Peters, 176. It was
then conclusively settled by this court, that it. had no authority,
9n a writ of error, to revise- the evidence -which the Circuit
Court had before it, or the interpretation they placed upon it,
or the conclusions they drew from it. This court then said," That is the province of the judge himself, if the trial by jury
is waived, and it is submitted to -his personal decision. If either
party in thu court below is. dissatisfied with the,ruling of. the
judge on a matter of law, that ruling shotld be brought before this court by an appropriate exception, in the nature of a
bill of exceptions, and should not be mixed up with his supposed conclusions on matters of fact." In. the subsequent case
of Phillips v. Preston,'5 Howard, 290, the point was treated as
conclusively settled.
It should,. ther, have been taken in this- case as established,
thht every thing which was matter of fact in this controversy
had been fixed beyond question in this court by the judgment of the Circuit Court of Louisiana; and that no portion of
the proceedings, of that court remained open for revisibn here,
but "such rulings on matteis of law as were brought before-us
by an appropriate 'exception, in the nature, of a bill of exceptions."
No final opinion to this effect, was *written by this court for
publication in our reports after the argument at the last term.
But such opinion was expressed unanimously by us in qut consultation. And, in accordance with it, this court ordered, that
"the judgment rendered in this case at December term, 1844,
(3 Howard,.788,) and all the 'proceedings thereon and subsequent thereto, should be set aside and vacated, and the case,
as it stood at the term aforesaid: previous to the said judgment,
reinstated."
Under this last order, the case 'has been before us
at the present term.
The case has been argued, and in my opinion properly argued, by the counsel for the defendants in error, upon the correctness of the rulings of the Circuit Court on matters of law,

JANUARY TERM, 1849."

867

The United States v. King et al.

stated in the bills of exceptions taken by the United States, who
are the plaintiffs in error.
The judgment of the Circuit Court has established the fact,
that the grant made by the Baron de Carondelet, as the gov-,
ernor of Louisiana, on the 20th of June, 1797, to the Marquis
de Maison Rouge, was valid under the laws of the French and
Spanish governments then prevailing in Louisiana, and consequently continued to be so by the treaty which ceded Louisiana
to the United States. It has therefore been properly treated as
a question which, under the decisions I have referred to, cannot, upon this record, now properly come before this court..
The validity of the grant must depend upon the genuineness
of the instrument itself, and'upon its sufficiehcy to give to the
grantee a complete and formal title to the land mentioned in
it, pursuant to the laws of Spain at the time it was made." The
concurrence of these two facts is essefitial to the validity-of the
grant. It is therefore distinctly, but succinctly, affirmed, in the
judgment of the Circuit Court; and must be taken to be established thereby. From the opinion of the Circuit Court, explaining its reasons for this judgment, it is apparent that both
of these points were fully examined, proved, discussed, and
decided upon. The assertion that the certificate of Trudeau
to the plano figurativo has been antedated, or is fraudulent,
cannot be maintained. It rests solely upon evidence not
worthy of credit, from the circumstances and manner it has
been ifitroduced by Girod in his pamphlet, which is shown to
have been contradicted, and which, if it were necessary to sift
it, would be found to present, intrinsic and abundant proof of
its own discrepancies and inconsistencies. That the grant is a
complete and formal title to the land mentioned in it, pursuant
to the-laws of Spain, is also conclusively established. -It depended on the laws and usages of that government, on the
performance of the necessary conditions, and, finally, on the recognition of the grant by the Spanish authorities as the complete
and formal investment df the full ownership of the land embraced in it. All these were matters of fact susceptible of
proof. That such proof was adduced, and, was sufficient, is an
inference we are bound. to take from the finding of the court,
as is shown by its judgment, to which they were necessary.,
When we turn to the opinion which the Circuit Courtkhas
thought proper, though under no -obligation to do so, to annex
to its judgment, we find such was explicitly the case. On each
and every one of these points there was testimony in tjie
Cirduit Court. On that testimony that court founded its decision, as a fact, .that the grant was a valid and complete one. It
says, that the genuineness of the grant is "conclusively.estab-

868

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et a.

lished by the testimony of witnesses who were well acquainted
with the signature of the Baron de Carondelet." Of the evidence in Girod's- pamphlet, which alone impugned the genuineness of Trudeau's Planofigurativo annexed to the grant, the
court -says, -"It is insufficient to counteract the force and
effect of testimony emanating from persons who had equal, if
not better, opportunities of acquiring a knowledge of the facts
set forth." Of the performance of the conditions of the grant,
the court says, there was "the most conclusive evidence that
the conditions thereof, whatever they may have been, have
been complied with." 'And finally, in regard to the. bvidence
,Which established it as a complete and formal title, the court
says, it is what was usually termed in Louisiana, under the
Spanish govenment, a titulo en'forma,- a title in form, - as
is shown by the testimony of Tessier, who was examined under
a commission, and who, as the court observes, was officiating at
the time as secretary in the land department.- He proved, under
oath, that such an instrument was "such- complete and perfect
evidence of title as not to. require any other to validate or
strengthen it."
The validity of the grant was therefore properly regarded as
an established fact, not now open to argument, under the order
of this court pursuant to which the case is now before us. It
has been so treated by the counsel of the defendants in error,
without 'interposition or remark from the court.; And therefore, as it is now made to form the principal, if iiot the sole,
basis of the decision just expressed as that of the majority, it is
a point upon which, -in my. opinion, the counsel for the defendants have not had that hearing t6 which they are entitle.d, and
which is necessary' to a proper investigation of this important
title. 'The points raised by the bills of exceptions taken by the
United States are before this court on this writ of error, and
the*y have ben argued and may. be decided. It is otherwise
with that of the'validity of the grant.
If the only. persons to be affected by this decision were the
defendants on the record, it seems to me it would be improper to
make it under the circumstances I have stated. But it has been
brought to the notice of this court, before its judgment has been
\pronounced, that an 'act of Congress was passed on the 17th of
June,- 1844, (5 Stat. at Large, 676,) the object of which was to
biig in the best form, for final adjudication, those long uns'bled titles in Louisiana, arising unde: the governments which
existed there before the cession ; and that, under this law, the
heirs of Henry Turner, who are claimants under the land grant
to the. Marquis of Maison Rouge, but to a far larger extent of
land than the quantity now- in controversy, are at this time de-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

869

The United States v. King et al.

fendantsin error in. this court, having been brought 'here by
the United States, after having had a decree: in their favor in
the Circuit Court. These parties, by a formal motion,, have
asked that our present decision, if the same shall go to affect
the validity of the grant, may be postponed until they shall be
heard. They have stated, and ,the fact*is so, that the record in
their case was'filed by' the United States only a few days before
the argument in the present case, and has only been printed.
since, so that, without any fault or negligence of their own,
they have been, unable to avail themselves of the -rule of this
court whidh permits parties in subsequent cases involving the
same questions to be heard when the case first in rder'is
reached; that while the question and point of law, so far as regards the validity of the grant, are the same the evidence ne.6
cessaryr to its fair and complete adjudication is much imore
fully established in their record than in the confused and imiper-fect one now' before us; and especially,, that it presents the tea-.
timony of numerous witnesses of the highest and most uniipeachable character, which has never been submitted to this
court, directly establishing the authenticity of the documents in
question, as well as proving the .practice, usages, and .laws of
the Spanish governmerft in regard 'to their fform and effect.
That in their case the facts were not found solelyr by the court.
below, but -that their record exhibits the verdict of a jury,
founded, in addition to other evidence, on the actual inspection
of the original documents, which affirms their authenticity and
completion, and the perfectness of the title under them; And,
under these circumstances', a decision shall now
finally, that if,
be made against the validity of the'grant, it wilLbe made on im.perfect evidence, while fuller evidence is on the records of this
court awaiting its examination,' and also in 'prejudication -of
the rights of parties coming here under the sanction of an act
of Congress, who have not been guilty of any delay in presenting themselves before thisCourt, and who have'been precluded
from the' benefit of the rule' before alluded to by no fault of
their own. Can we refuse with justice an -application, to
grant which ipjures fno one, to refuse which, may be' produ-.tive of consequences the most serious, and perhaps irreparable
wrong ?
Nor, in my opinion, are 'these the only bonsiderations which
should' have induced us to refrain from a hastr decision, with'
imperfect. evidence, on the validity of this grant. Four years
ago, we made a decision relying on this same imperfect record,
which contained an. assertion and statement of facts rested on
evidence since acknowledged by 'us to'have been illegal in itself, and which we .now know is positively contradicted.. If
73*

870

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

this grant is fraudulent in its execution, or in effect is such,
though genuine, as to give no title to those who claim under it,
it is our duty to say so. But that should only be done after
-he calmest consideration of all the testimony relating to it,
whether in the record of this case or in that of any other case
:n our calendar in which is involved the question of the validity of the grant. We ought not to have forgotten, that, in doing otherwise, we may affect the rights and property of many
of our citizens who have not been heard; that we shall controvert the opinions formally expressed for almost half a century by the board of commissioners who first- examined the
title, by the officers of the general land-office, by the legislature
of Louisiana, by committees of Congress, and by the Circuit
Court of the United States, -all of whom, after investigation,
have declared this grant to be valid, and which has never been
said to be otherwise by any other tribunal than this court, when
it gave its now recalled judgment, founded uponi the depositions annexed t6 Girod's pamphlet.
If we examine the judgment of the Circuit Court now under
review upbn the principles that have been heretofore settled by
this court, we shall-find no error in the "1rulings of the judge
in a matter of law brought before this court by an appropriate
exception.in the nature of a bill of exceptions." Hyde v. Booraem, 16 Peters, 176.
In regard to the three bills of exceptions which were taken
by the defendants, also in the record, we need not say any
-thing, because they are not properly before us, and have not
been referred to in the argument. But it may not be amiss to
remark, that they afford another reason why a final judgment
should not now be entered against the defendants, though the
decision of a majority of the court may be adverse to them, because they allege the rejection of important testimony in their
favor in respect to the validity of-the grant, for reasons which,
without expressing a conclusive opinion upon them, I may say
were strongly and plausibly urged.
Let us now examine the bills of exceptions taken in behalf
of the United States, to see whether they present any illegal
ruling of the Circuit Court.
They are five in number, but the first, fourth, and fifth have
been properly and candidly conceded by the Attorney-General
to be untenable. I am to remark, then, upon the second and

third.
The second is an exception to tihWadmission in evidence -of
a petition of Daniel Clark, the grantor of the defendant, to the
Intendant Morales, on the 1st of August, I 03,.together with the
alleged copy of a certificate,-purporting to -be signed by Leoh-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

871

The United states v. King at al.

ard and Amirez, 6fficers of the royal treasury in Louisiana, on
the 5th of August 1803, in which it was declared, that the.Marquis of Maison Rouge had complied virtually with the terms
of his contract. The signatures are. certified by.a notary to be
known to him as genuine, and both papers appear to be part
of the same "instrument."
The genuineness of the signatures
was not denied by the .Attorney-General. The only ground
taken in the argument.to sustain the exception was, the insufficiency 6f the testimony to prove a compliance by Maison
Rouge with the conditions of the grant. It is certainly no
valid objection to the admission of an authentid document as
testimony, that it does not prove all for wh~ich the party bffering it contends. This may affect its sufficiency, not the legality of its admission. It is a document from the Spanish archives, the authenticity of which was proved, as well as the
removal of the records themselves, many years ago, by 'the
Spanish authorities. Its admission is clearly within the rule
established in the case of The United States v. Wiggins, 14
Peters, 345. The exception is limited to the admission of the
evidence, not to the legal effect which has been or may be
given to it, and it cannot be doubted that the decision of the
Circuit Court to admit it was correct.
The plaintiffs' third bill of exceptions was- also an objection
to the admission of documentary evidence, namely, the report
of the commissioners appointed under the act of the 3d of
March, 1807, declarihg that the grant to the Marquis Maison
Rouge "is a patent, or what in Lnuisiana was denominated a
title in form, transferring to him the title, in as full and ample a
manner as lands were usually granted by the Spanish govemment, subject, however, to the conditions stipulated in his contract with the government." That such a report was made, and
that the document in question was a copy, of it, was not disputed. Such an official act of the officers of the United States in
regard to the title was certainly legal evidence in the chain of
proceeding, whatever its bearing and effect upon the validity
of the title may be. But, if this were not so, it will be
enough to say, to dispose of this exception, that, in the course
of the trial, another copy of this same dodument was introduced
in evidence on the part of the United States.
These are the only exceptions to" the judgment of the Circuit Court whichwere taken at the trial, and which have been
brought before this court in this record. Neither can be sustained; nor do the majority of the court, in the opinion read
by the chief justice, attempt to sustain them.
What, then, is there in the record, upon which the majority
of the court rely to warrant their judgment?

SUPREME COURT.

M2
--

The United States v. King et al.

It has been argued, on the part of the United States, that
there -are errors apparent on the face of the record, which,
though not made the subjects of exception, will be noticed by
this court. " These errors are' said to be in the judgment itself.
That judgment is in the following words: . ."The court having maturely considered the law and the
evidence in this case, dcoth now order, adjudge, and decree,.that
.the plaintiffs' petition be dismissed; and that-the-grant made
by the Baron de Carondelet, as the governor of Louisiana, on
the 20th June, 1797, to the Marquis de Maison 4ouge, be, and
the same is -hereby, declared valid; th&t the said Richard
King, defendant, and the said Daniel W. Coxe, the warrantor,
bo, and they. are' hereby, declared and recognized to be the
lawful owners.of the"parts of the said grants held by then, as
described in the. answek of -the said 'Richard King, and 'in
.-Schedufk A, and that they be quieted in the bwnership and
possession of the ame."-In this judgment, three patent errors are alleged to exist. It
is- said that it adjudicates the title for lands. for which the
United States have not sued;, that the acceptance, by the defendant Coxe, of a league square, was an extinguishment of his
claim to any other portion of the land; and that which was
principally argued and urged was, that "the instrument executed by the Baron de Carondelet, 6n ihe. 20th June, 1M9l,was not a grant to the Marquis de Maison Rouge."? - These errors are alleged to be apparent on the record, independently of
any exception embracing them. None- such, it is admitted,
were taken in the court below; or brought here.
Admitting, for the purposes of this argument, that this court
can reverse a judgment for such an irregularity:as is said to be
if -this, in its adjudication of the title for- lands for which the
Unitecr States have not sued, without, however, conceding it
- as a fact
that. 'this court can properly do so, in a case brought .
to it upon. a writ of error,'this is not the case for the.exercise
of such a power.
The -court- having decreed that the petition of the United
States should be, dismissed, and that the defendant King
should -be quieted in the 'ownership and possession of that land.
for which the United States sued, is as "'d6finitive a sentence,,
or. judglment, as tie court could have given upon the subjectmatter of the suit.- It'put an end to the suit, and absolved the
defendant, in the language of the civil law of Spain, from the
demand which- had been made -or sudd for.. Any thing 'put
with "it, growing out of the mode of proceeding in the trial,
but separable 'from that "sentence," so as not to interfere with
its execution, - is,.in the. civil law of Spain under which the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

&73

The United States v.. King et aL

judgment was given, one of those divisions.or points "(eapitulos) which can be appealed from, and set aside upon the ajpeal to a superior court, or by the court giving the "1sentence,"on account of its comprehending a thing not 4emanded or
prayed for. But not so when the defendant has been acquitted
and declared free from, the demand, unless a right to revoke
the sentence has been. reserved by the judge (L. 9, tit. 22, p.
3) ; though it may be reversed upon appeal in a superior court,
for meritorious cause, when there has been error in the judge
.in acquitting the defendant from the demand for which he was
sued. It cannot .be denied, that, in this case, the "sentence"
or judgment is conformable to the proceedings, so far as it"acquits the defendant from the demand of the United States.
The jus, in re, or dominion in the thing sued for by the
United Statesi-is for so much land, particularly describad in the
action, as the mode of proceeding in Louisiana, or the civil law
-of Spain, in this particular still existing in Louisiana, requires
to be done, with a recital - proper enough, and admissible in
such actions, but not necessary - of a survey by Dinsmore,
without authority of the plaintiffs, under an alleged pretended
claim, "1called the Maison Rouge claim.' "- The answer of the
defendant, after a general denial of all and singular the allegations in the petition, except as they are thereafter specially ad-

mitted, is, that "1he' is the trde, and lawful owner of the tract
of land described in the petition," with a reicital of his purchase
from Coxe ;.that he is in possession of the same, and has made
valuable improvements,- with a prayer that he may be dis.missed with costs, and that Coxe, as his warrantor, may be
called to appear and defend him in the suit. The issue, then,
according to the Louisiana mode of-proceeding, or the civil law
of Spain, between the United States'and King, was certain,
positive, and respondent upon the part of King to what the
United States sued for, and is no way changed by the intervention of Coxe as his warrantor. That makes another issue
between Coxe and King, so far as his denial of King's state
ment of his warranty to him; but -it is not a substitute for th.
frst issue between the United States and King, as to the dominion of the land sued for. Coxe, it is true, comes in upon
the prayer of King, to defend the suit as his warrantor; not,
though, as the court here -seems to suppose, exclusively to
maintain Kin 's ownership of the land sued for as a part of the
Maison Rouge grant ; for in this petitory action by the United
States, King might have resisted it by any equitable title
other than that which was equitable or legal connected with
that grant. But King asks that Coxe may be brought in as a
party; that, "if this suit should be decided against him, he

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et aL

may. have judgment against the United States. and the said
Coxe, for the value of his improvements on the land, and a
judgment against Coxe for the purchase-money and interest
thereon, from the time of eviction," and costs of suit. In such
a case, no error or irregularity in the judgment, in respect to
Coxe's answer, can invalidate the finding "upon the answer
of King, if the latter can be executed upon the thing sued for.
In other words, there may be in'the civil law of Spain,-upon
which the rights of the parties in this'case exclusively depend,
distinct findings in the same judgment, without the error of
one 'of them having the effect to vacate the-other; and -il. ihat,
case it often happens that one of the findings in the judgment
ig- made the subject of appeal, and that it is reversed without
affecting the other. Now, though this may not be done in
our writ of error, what I contend for is, that, if, in a writ of
error in a case from Louisiana, a judgment shall have distinct
findings, one of them expressly comprehending and adjudging the subject-matter of the suit, we. shall separate it from
the others which we may think, cannot be maintained, and
affirm the first, as would be done in the courts of Louisiana,
when the subject-matter of rights claimed and denied depends
upon the Louisiana law, or upon that law which existed there
when the parties to the suit respectively acquired their rights
in the subject-matter of the suit.
But further, the language of the judgment, as to the" land
upon wich it is to operate, is explicit. It dismisses the petition of the United States, and quiets the defendant in the pos-.
session of precisely, that land, in quantity and description, for
which the United States sued him. Whether it was or was
not the intention of the Circuit Court to adjudicate the title to
.other lands, in which the defendant King has no interest, but
to which his warrantor, Coxe, may have a title, is of no consequence, for both are so discriminated in the judgment that
they cannot be confouiided; and were so, that each.might be
independent of the other, or, in the language of the civil law
of Spain, be firm and valid, from having passed into a thing
adjudged (cosa juzgada). Besides, such adjudication of a thing
not sued for cannot vitiate the judgment for the thing that is
sued for in this case;, for, if the former, is not valid only because it is. for land, as this court says, not sued for the other
part of the judgment in favor of King is valid, it being for the
very land which was sued for. The fact that King and Coxe
claim dominion of parts of what they say they -respectively
own, under the same grant, and that the court affirms their
rights under it, cannot render that part of the judgment in
favor of King.less a judgment, because it is for a thing in con-

JANUARY TERM, 1849!

875

The United States v. King et al.

testation; and, though a pM of the Maison Rouge grant, tfe
whole of that grant never was so. It was neither so by the
action brought by the United States agaimst King, nor did it
become so from the answer of Coxe,. though that answer, as
well as the answer of King, raised the question of the validity
of that grant, for the purpose of having it judicially determined
whether or not it gave to King the dominion of the land for
which the United States sued him, as a part of the Maison.
Rouge survey. To so much of that land or survey, And to no
more of it, is the judgment in favor of King an affirmation of
his ownership, or of Coxe's right of alienation of it to King.
A judicial determination in favor of the validity of. the grant
and survey, for any portion of the latter, is a good, reason for
the United States, by its proper functionaries, to consider that
the land embraced in the survey was private property when
Louisiana was ceded, or that it was not a part of the public
land intended to be conveyed by the treaty to the United
States. But the validity of the grant.was not, nor can it be,
as the case is in the record, the foundation for a judgment in
favor of Coxe for'all the land which he cltims .under it, because the UnitedStates had not submitted to the jurisdiction
of the court for any such purpose. A "1definitive sentence,"
or judgment, is only valid when it is given against a person
subject to 1he.-jurisdiction of the judge. (Li. 12, 15, tit. 22,
p. 3.) But the United States did submit itself to the jurisdiction of the court, for the land fr which it sued King; and the
judgment acquitting him of that demand is final and conclusive in his favor against the United States, though it may be
reversed for error in itself by this court; upon a proper exception, and though the execution of it is suspended by the cognizance which this court is legislatively empowered to take of
that " sentence" or judgment. I say legislatively empowered,
for that phrase indicates the extent and boundary of this
court's cognizance of a case in error. Until it shall be enlarged by Congress, I must tiink that the court has exceeded
it, in this iiistance, by making an erroneous CCdivision or
point," in a judicial sentence containing two distinct "1divisions or points," the foundation for the reversal of both, arid
that, too, without an exception having been taken in the court
below to either of them, to bring one or the other of them up
for concurrence in this court. If this court means to 'claim
the power, and to exercise it in the review of a judgment, by
a superior court, of an inferior, according to the civil Roman
law, or as that law was modified under the Spanish rule in
Louisiana, it may be -done. But, in doing it in this case 'I
may be allowed to dissent from my brethren, until some better

876

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

reasons for the exercise of such power shall b6 given than I
have yet heard.
'H6wever, does the language of the judgment necessarily embrace any *other land than that which the United States claim
in their petition? • The inquiry should not alone be, whether
the judgmentmay'not bear that construction, but whether or
not-it does not admit of another, more coincident with the case
as.it is.on the-record and appeared to be on the trial, and more
.in harmony with the duty of the judge who, gave it; in respect
-to the only' 1 definitivA .sentence "1 -which, under the civil law
:bfSpaii-as it exists in Louisiana, can be given in a suit for
real property where a *atrantor appears to defend the respondenat to .the action' in the character of a plaintiff in reconvention.
If'the judgment will bear such a construction, though the lan* guage of it may not'obviously show it, we are bound to give
. that, of which it is susceptible, most favorable to its operative
Now
.accuracy, or "executive process for a thing adjudged.'
my'reading of this judgment is, that the petition of the United
States is dismissed, and that King is quieted in the ownership
and possessibn. of the quantity of land for which the United
States sued"him, on account of the court having found the fact
of the validity of the Maison Rouge grant, and that the further
declaration in the judgment in respect to Coxe's ownership of
the other. lands in Schedule A, and that he is to be quieted in the
enjoyment of them, is but an inference from the court's finding,
from the proofs in the case, that the Maison Rouge grant and
survey were valid., That it'could not have been the intention
of thecourt to be a judicial sentence seems to me certain, first, because the court had dis'allowed or dismissed Coxe's plea
in'reconvention, by which alone his title 'to other lands than
that sued for was brought in question, and secondly, because.
the only judgments which the Louisiana law permits'to be given
in such a case are the affirmation of his title to the land by decreeing its ownership to his vendee, or the -disaffirmation of it,with a sentence against the warrantor for the puichase-money,
with interest upon it from the final eviction, and for the value
of the improvements and costs. Besides, in all fairness of construction, if we consider the words of the judgment in connection with what, manifestly, the Circuit Court, throughout thetrial, thought was the only issue before it, do the words, "that
the said Richard King, and the said Daniel W. Coxe, warrantor,
be, and they are. hereby, declared and recognized to be the lawful owners of the parts of said grant held by them, as described
in the answer of the said Richard King and in the Schedule
A," imply an adjudication for more land than that for which
King,.had been sued, and of 'which Coxe had beenthe owner, as

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

877

The United Stat~s v. King et aL

described in the schedule, before he sold it to King? Of themselves, the words may; but that it was not so meant seems to me
to be certain, from the dismission of the petition of the United
States for just the land for which it had sued. I have used this
course of arguinent, however, in respect to the judguient, not so
much for the purpose of establishing the correctness of myown"
construction of it, as to show, that, in this court's review, of it,
instead of doing as it has done, it should, in accordance with
its own well-established rule, have made every reasonable presumption in favor of its correctness. So the court has done in
all previous cases where that which- was equivocal in a judgment has not interfered with the right. to a forced execution
upon it of the matter in controveisy. And, so essential' is' the
propriety and policy, in jurisprudence,..f pulting an end to further controversy after, a judgment rendered, though there: may
be surplusage in it, that no instance can be found in our
books, nor in the English reports, of a judgment set aside,, in a
court of review, which distinctly finds the issue between the
parties, on account of other matter. in it, unless upon exceptions taken to the court's ruling-of the law in the case applicable to the issue. This I believe to be the only instance to
the contrary, and I cannot think it will ever-be a precedent for
another.
. In the case under consideration, the action was instituted by
The United States against King, for the recovery of a tract of
land: in the actual occupation of the defendant. * Th6 petition
is in the general terms in which such pleadings are usually
framed in Louisiana, and avers the invalidity of the title under
which the defendant claims to hold the land, and the paramount legal title of the United States. The answer of the defendant to this petition is equally general in its terms, and asserts, without any specification of details, the validity of his
title, and controvertd the allegations in the petition.
o far the
case, is perfectly simplh, and, being followed by a general judgment for the defendant, so far as that judgment disaffirnis the title
of the United States and affirms that of the defendant, there is
no ground upon which error can be alleged. In such a state of
the case, without the intervention of the warrantor, I am warranted in saying, from the decision just read by the chief justice, that the judgment of this court would have been in favor
of the judgment of the Circuit Court. The supposed difficulty,
however, which the case presents, and which has caused the reversal of-the-judgment of the-Cir uit Court, arises from the circumstance, that King not only puts distihctly and simply in
issue the quebtion of title between himself and the United
States, but he vouches, in warranty, Coxe, from whom,he purVOL. VII.

74

878

SUPREM.E COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

chased. King was, by the practice in Louisiana. obliged to do
that. Let us for a moment inquire into the nature of that
practice, and what it is meant to accomplish. , In my opinion,
it has a decisive'and hostile bearing against the ground taken
by this court, that the judgment of the Circuit Court should
be reversed on account of its supposed adjudication of title for
more land than the United States sued for.
At common law, as is familiar to all of us, when an action is
brought to recover real estate which a defendant holds by purchase from another, accompanied with a-covenant 'of warranty,
the defendant may, at his option, elect eitherto give notice of
the pending action to his vendor and warrantor, or to await the
result of the suit, and, if judgment passes against him, sue upon
his covenant of warranty. In the first case, the warrantormay take upon himself the burden of the defencd if he pleases,
or may omit it. In either case, notice of the suit having been
given to him, he is bound -by the judgment. It- is, nevertheless, still necessary that an action upon the warranty should be
brought against him to enforce his personal liability. And
upon proof that he had notice of the first suit, the judgment
against -his vendee will be conclusive evidence against him of
the breach of his covenant.
If no such notice of the first suit be given to him, he may, in
an action on the covenant, controver the title of the original
plaintiff, and require full proof of it to fix his liability. In all
cases, however, the responsibility of the warrantor is judicially
settled in the second suit.
The Louisiana law seeks to accomplish precisely the same
results by a speedier process. It permits the defendant to callM,in
warranty, the party from -whom he derives title. The warrantor may forthwith appear in court as a party, and in his own
name defend the suit. Notwithstanding this, however, no
judgment is entered against him at the suit of the original
plaintiff; but in case he shall be adjudged entitled to the property in contestation, a second judgment is entered simultaneously, in favor of the original defendant, against his warrantor.
This subject was fully discussed in this case at our last teim ;
but, as I have remarked before, we have no report either of the
argument or the decision. I depend upon my own notes of. that
argument; and upon those of Mr. Coxe, of counsel in the case,
from which I have derived much information. In my view,
however, of the Louisiana law and practice, it is clear that the
original proceedings and pleadings between the original parties
to the suit remain as they were before the intervention 6f- the
warrantor, and the defence interposed by the wa.rrantor cannot
be made the foundation of any judgment to be rendered in
favor of the'plaintiff-ih the originar action.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

879

The United States v. King et aL

If this view of the matter be correct, in giving judgment in
favor of King against the United States, the Circuit Court was
necessarily limited to the pleadings between the parties. And
so this court regarded the question at the last term; for although
Coxe, in the defence interposed by him, sets up a claim to a
larger portion of the entire Maison Rouge grant, and although
this court, when this case first carne before it, considered
that the controversy was thus enlarger-so as to comprehend
this addition to the subject-matter involved, and that Coxe became answerable to a judgment coextensive with his claim, yet
we were all satisfied, at the last term, that in this we had, as in
other respects, misapprehended the local law, and the 'majority
of the court now - as it ought to have done before, as I then
thought -have confined us within our legitimate limits, and
restricted the judgment to King alone, and to the property described in the petition. It would seem necessarily to follow,
from this view of the case, that, in our consideraiion of the
judgment of the Circuit Court, we ought to be restricted to the
matters put in issue by the pleadings between the original
parties.
In this aspect of the case, the grounds upon which the present decision is made to rest, in the opinion of the court, are
wholly dehors the record.
Be this, however, as it may, this point in the case, so vital
in the view taken by the majority of the court, has not been
argued by counsel on either side. Nor is it considered distinctly and independently in the opinion of the court. In the
absence of both, I am not disposed to pass any definite judgment. It is a point, however, which must be surmounted or
avoided to warrant the judgment just given by this court.
But it is said that Coxi's acceptance of a league square was an
extinguishment to any other portion of the land, and that there
was error because it is not so declared in the judgment. This
is certainly a matter dehors the record. Nothing concerning it is
either on the face of the judgment or in the bills of exceptions.
It is not in any way before this ourt, by any principle or rule of
practice known to this court or any other court having the power
to reverse, upon writs of error, the judgments of inferior courts;
Some correspondence in regard to it is found, like Girod's
pamphlet, in the mass of documents improperly sent up with
the record; but we have no means of knowing whether- or not
it is the whole of the 'correspondence. I repeat, we cannot
consider it by any known rule of judicial proceeding. Suppose
it, however, to be before us for examination: can it be contended that the acceptance of this league square by. Mr. Coxe
was an extinguishment of his claim to the rest of the land in

880

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al..

the grant, if that were otherwise valid, or that it annulled the
conveyance to King made by Coxe long before the patdnt for
the league square? The act of Congress of the 29th of April,
1816, confirmed all claims recognized as complete grants in the
report of the commissioners appointed under the act of the 3d of
March," 1807, and authorized a patent to be issued therefor; and
the Maison Rouge claim had been so recognized and reported;
but it was provided that under "no one claim shall any-person
or persons be entitledy under this act, to more than the quantity
contained in a league square." Had no stipulation been made
with -Mr. Coxe when he received this patent, his right to any
further quantity would not, by the language of this law, have
been lessened or impaired. It did not, nor was it meant to,
impair the quantity assumed by the United States in the treaty
of cession of Louisiana, by which all the inhabitants were protected and maintained in the enjoyment of their -whole property. And if it had been so meant, I do not think that I venture any thing which will not be acquiesced in"
by my associates in this court,' when the subject shall' be- fully examined,
in saying, that Congress cannot constitutionally pass an act taking from the inhabiiants of Louisiana, "or those of any. other
purchased territory now making a part.of the Unifed States, any
property guarantied to them, their descendants or assigns,, by,
treaty, so as to exclude them from having their rights to the
whole of what they claim judicially ascertained. A treaty is
the suvpreme law of the land, and- it limits the legislation of
Congress to the fulfilment- of all of its provisions, to the fullest
extent of themand not for less or a part of what individuals
have a right to claim under it as property, but for the whole.
'And what that whole may be, where there is, a dispute about it
between the United States and those claiming, can only, under
our system, be judicially ascertained and determined, unless, by
the. treaty or by the consent ot the.claimants, 'some other mode
of determining the right has been agreed upon. But if this were
not so, in this case there cannot be a doubt; for before Coxe
accepted the patent for .aleague square, he.made an inquiry
what effect his acceptance would have upon his claim, and he
was assured at the general land-office, acting under the in-structions of the Attorney-General, that. it did not preclude him
from seekihg the recognition or confirmation of his entire claim
by Congress or the courts .ofthe country.I
I will now consider, as briefly as I can, the only other error
assigned by. the majority of the court on this judgment. It is,
that the Circuit Court adjudicated. the instrument -executed by
the -Baron de. Carondelet, on the 20th Jirne, 1797, to be a
grant .to the Marquis de Maison Rouge. This is surely- not an

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

881

The United States v. King et aL

error brought before this court by a proper exception, and more,
it is not an error apparent upon the record. It not only isnot
in any bill of exceptions, but it is not a ruling of the Circuit
Court which was at any time formally objected to, directly or
indirectly' in the court below. If it is an error, it exists in the
language and office of the judgment itself, - nowhere else.
Accurately speaking, this is not the judgment of the Circuit
Court upon the issue made and submitted by the pleadings.
It is the reason or cause assigned for the judgment. The
prayer in the petition .of the United States is, that they may
"be decreed, by a judgment of this honorable court, to be the
true and lawful owners of the aforesaid land and premises."
The judgment responsive to this prayer is, that "King, the defendant, and Coxe, the warrantor, are declared and recognized to
be the lawful owners," and are to be quieted in the ownership
and possession of the same. ' The portion, therefore, of the decree now excepted to is a reason of the court for rendering such
judgment. It is no necessary part of the issue submitted for adjudication, or of the judgment actually given.. As a reason of
the court, it is mere surplusage,- and can be altogether rejected
without affecting the validity of the judgment. It is well settled, that, if a judgment be defective in form, yet if it follows
and is responsive to the issue, and is substantially right in that
respect, neither such defect, nor any surplusage contained in it,
is a ground for error. Moore v. Tracey, 13 Wend. 282; Buckfield
v. Gorham, 6 Mass. 447; Brown v. Chase, 4 Mass. 436; Deering
v E1albert, 2 Littell, 292; Todd v. Potter, 1 Day, 238. In Louisiana, in the case of Keene v. McDonough, 8 Louisiana, 187, it
is said, "An erroneous reason, given in a judgment which is correct in itself, is no ground for reversal." In any event the reasoning of the court on which it either partially or wholly puts
its judgment, even if incorrect, can only form the ground of an
exception to be submitted to the court below; and if-there persisted in, must be made the foundation of a bill of exceptions to
be revised by this court. No exception whatever was taken 'to
this portion of the judgment or reasoning of the Circuit Court.
If, however, the declaration, or decree einbraced in the judgment, is an essential and necessary part of it, can it be revised
by this court? It is the assertion of a fact, depending exclusively upon the performance by the grantee of the conditions
of the grant: and upon the laws and usages of Spain, ix cases
where such instruments were issued and such conditiofis performed. Whether or not this fact was established is, as I have
already shown, a matter belonging to the Circuit Court exclusively to decide. That court had before it the evidence of the
performance of the conditions of the grant, and of the laws
74*-

882

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et aL

and usd.ges of Spain in regard to it. We have not. Nay' more,
we are bound to presume that, this judgment was right, so far
as it did or could, by any possibility, depend upon a matter of
fact. Every matter of fact necessary to sustain it will be presumed to have been proved, and will be taken by this cotlrt to
have been fully proved in the Circuit Court. This is a principle foo well settled, alike by the common law and the law of
Louisiana, to need discussion. Campbell v. Patterson,, 7 Vermont, 89; Butler v. Despalir, 12 Martin, 304; Mitchellv. White,
6 New Series, 409; Hill v. Tuzzine, 1 New Series, 599; Piedras v. Milne, .2 New Series, 537i-also 265; Miller v. Whittier, 6
Louisiana, 72; Love v. Banks,'3 Louisiana, 481.
And in the case of Carroll v. Peake, 1 Peters, 18, this court
said, in the absence of probf to the contrary, if any possible
state of the case can be imagined, or any amount of testimony
supposed, necessary to sustain the opinion of the Circuit Court,
this court will assume that such .a state of the case existed,
and that such evidence was offered on the trial. • Whether
or not this is a complete "title in form" under the- Spanish
law, as it existed in 1797, and whether the conditions contained in it(supposing the performance of them to be necessary
to its validity) .were performed, are purely matters of fact, depending upon evidence which was before. the Circuit Court.
We ought, and .are bound, to presume they were legally and
conclusively established by that evidence. If so, the decree
and judgment of the Circfiit Court were free from error, and
should be so affirmed by this tribunal.
I think I may say, that no errof assigned, either in the record
or by a majority of .this court, in behalf of the United States,
has been sustained. In my opinion, if the case could be justly
decided now,'a judgment of affirmance should be entered. I
wish sincerely that I could, "consistently with what I have felt
myself bound to do, close my, remarks upon the course pursued
by a majority of the court in this case with what I"have said.
Something remains to be done.
In the opinion expressed by -the majority of the court, they
have deemed it proper to discuss the validity of the Maison
Rouge grant, as if it were not affected in any way by the facts
ascertained in the judgment of the court beloir, and as if in
every aspect, whether of fact as to the performance of the condition, or of legal effect according to the law and usages of
Spain, its validity was here before us for examination and adjudication. This course I deem at variance with the settled law
and practice of this court. But as I regard the grant to be
clearly valid, and the opinion now given by the majority of this
court against it as of the highest importance to one of the States

,JANIARY TERM, .1849.

883

The United States v. King et al.

of this Union, and to a large portion of its people, I will submit the grounds on which I think that the Circuit, Court in
Louisiana properly adjudged the grant of the 20th June, 1797,
to" the Marquis de Maison Rouge, to be valid, legal, and complete.
Under *the royal order of the 24th August, 1774, the governor of Louisiana had the amplest pnwers to grant lands, without limitation as to quantity, and without the necessity of a,
confirmation by the Spanish government,' This power existed
undiminished until the royal order of 22d October, 1798, when
it was conferred on the Intendant. -2White's New Recopilacion, 245; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 727; .United
States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 452.
After the treaty of -the 17th October, 1795, between, the
United States and" Spain, by which the latter government
relinquished its claim to the territory on the eastern side of the
Mississippi north of the 31st degree of latitude, so that the settlements of the United States were rapidly approaching the inhabited portions of Louisiana, it became, even more than had
been previously the case, an object of Spanish policy to promote the establishment of colonies of European emigrants on
the outposts of Louisiana, and to encourage the cultivation of
wheat, so as to supply its inhabitants, and make them independent of the people of the United States for that food.. At no period-of Spanish colorfization was the disposal of the public lands
a source of revenue, as ours have been in the United States.
Conditions of settlement on the performance of other stipulations were. imposed, -but in no instance was the payment of
money exacted, ekcept in a few cases in Florida, where grants
of land were permitted by the kidg to be made by the Indians
to individuals for depredations upon the latter. But money for
the king's revenue, or for colonial purposes, was never exacted
in payment for lands granted. The land *granted was usually
limited in quantity, bat varied according to the -objects for
which the grant was made. Several cases determined in this
court exhibit the ratification by it of grants made by the
Spanish governors of Floridai.and- Louisiana, from a few acres
to hundreds of- thousands of acres. Every kind of considera-:
tion for them is also exhibited. Sometimes the settlement
and cultivation by the grantee himself; sometimes by settlers
to be introduced -by him; at othe.qr timies, the construction of
mills, or the establishment of large 'graing farms; again, a
reward for -military services; somefime8 the liquidation .and
settlement of previoulyexisting contracts. Of all these considerations, and'of many- others, which were-'the foundation
of grants of land by the Spanish governor, the records of this
court afford ample evidence.

-884

SUPREME . COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

In this state of the country, and under that sy§tem of policy,
the Spanish governor, Carondelet, made a contract on the 17th
of March, 1795, with the Marquis de Maison Rouge, a French
emigrant, then lately arrived in the colony. The object of it
was- to establish a colony of European immigrants on the Wishita River, to cultivate wheat, and to erect mills for manufacturing flour. The Spanish government agreed to pay in money
two hundred dollars for every family of two .persons, four
hundred for those having four laborers, and one hundred for
those, having one useful laborer. It also agreed to facilitate
their passage to the place of settlement, supply them with provisions, to pay for the transpiortation of them and their luggage,
when they came by sea to New Orleans, and. to. grant to every
family containing two white persons fit ifor. agriculture four
hundred arpens of land, and a. corresponding proportion for
more .or less.- In the outset, the number of families was limited
to thirty.
i
The contract of March, 1795, was designed to be the beginning of a national policy deemed by the Spanish government,
and its representatives in Jouisiana, essential to the independence of that province, and to the preservation'of other territories of Spain still farther south. The government, therefore,
undertook -to defray. all the expenses of its commencement,
knowing that, after the settlement of thirty fam ilies in a wilderness,, others would be "induced to migrate to it, paying their
own way, on account of that security which first s'ettlers always give to new lands. The Marquis de Maison Rouge
stipulated for nothing to be performed on his part but the introduction of thirty emigrant families into the province. '-Every.
other term of -the agreement is to be performed by the Spanish
government. The inspection of it, at pages 58 and 103 of the
record, will. show that all the. onerous stipulations were on the
part of the Spanish authorities, but none of them could in any
way, or -by any' construction of it, result in any pecuniary gain
to Maison Rouge. Guides, and provisions, expenses of transportation, and grants of land and money, were to be furnished,.
given, paid, and made to the emigrants. Not a dollar was to
bepaid, to the Marquis. The contract does not give him an acre
of land. Not the smallest benefit from it was to come to him.
The Intendant, Morales, a man of vigorous character', and
strict in his administration of the colonial finances, did not approve of the Baron de Carondelet's mode"of colonization in his
contract with Maison Rouge,-on account.of the expenditures to
which it led; 'but at the same time he expresses his opinion,
that it was the policy of the Spanish government to '"have an
-extensive settlement on the Wshita, to protect the possession

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

885

The United States v. King et aL

of the kingdom of Mexico.'
But Carondelet's contract with
Maisbn Rouge, for the settlement of the thirty families, had
received the royal sanction as early as July, 1795. The bur-,
den of it, except so far as the services of the Marquis .had aided
in its accoinplishment, had fallen on the Spanish government.
The literal compliance with it bad been nearly fulfilled by the
settlement of the thirty families, and the importance of the
extension of such settlements became more apparent after two
-years had passed, as Morales acknowledged, than it had been
when the policy was first adopted. It was then that the Baron
de Carondelet recollected the unrewarded services of.Maison
Rouge, - that he was a noble emigr , impoverished and driven
from France by the Revolution, - and, no doubt, excited
by the success of his policy in his first experiment in colonizing the Washita wider the personal agency of the Marquis,
determined'to extend it, by, making a large grant of land to him;
which policy he was to carry out on his own account, at his
own expense, and for his. own benefit. The language of the
grant is, "1Forasmuch as the Marquis de Maison Rouge is near
completing the establishment of the Washita, which he was
authorized to make for thirty-families by the royal order of
July 14th, 1795, and desirous to remove, for the future, all
doubt respecting other families or new colonists who may
come to establish themselves, we destine and appropriate conclusively, for the .establishment of the aforesaid Marquis de
Maison Rouge, by virtue of the powers granted us by the king,
the thirty superficial leagues marked in the plan annexed to
the head7, of this instrument, with the limits and boundaries.
designated, with our approbation, by the surveyor, Don Carlos
Lareau Trudeau, under the terms stipulated and cohttacted for
by the said Marquis de.Maison Rouge." This grant was made
on the 20th June, 1797, eleven days after the letter'of the 9th
June from Morales to the Marquis de Maison Rouge, (record,
p. 24J,) in which the Intendant, after refusing to alter,a previous
decision concernifg the'payment of money to some of the
Marquis's emigrants, under the contract of 1795," says, '.- "I
doubt not that your intentionsare the best for the interest of
my august' sovereign ; that 'with this object, besides the. convenience of living.under his wise laws, you formed- your plan,
aid I cannot disguise my belief, that it would be very. useful
for Spain to plant an extensive settlement on the Washita, to
protect the possession of the kingdom of Mexico; but I cannot
admit, with all his reasoning, that your project will be the best
and most advantageous to effect that purpose; far from it. I
entertain the opinion, that, if the government desire to benefit
by the present circumstances, they can accomplish their ends

886

SUPREME COURT.
The 'United States v. King et al

without great expense." It may be reasonably concluded, that
the extract from the letter of Moralies was in reply to one from
Maison Rouge, concerning the contract of 1795. The internal evidence warrants such an inference. And, as it shows a
difference of opinion between the Intendant and the Baron de
Carondelet concerning the mode of colonization, and the disapproval by the former of the manner in which the latter had
carried out that policy in his contract with Maison Rouge, both of them, however, acknowledging the wisdom and necessity of such policy, though differing upon whom the expense
of it should fall, - we have the motives and the reason for Carondelet's grant to. the Marquis. Further, the grant in quantity,
two hundred thousand arpens, was not more than enough for
five hundred' families, at the rate of allowance fixed by the
contract of 1795. It could only become valuable to the Marquis by being colonized by him. The. general policy 'on
which it was made justifies the extent of the grant, and shows
the strong desie of the government to extend and promote the
settlement on the Washita, without incurring the expense of
the previous arrang3men't. It was -well known, before the
contract of 1795 was made with Maison Rouge, and from the
execution of-it by him, that settlers could not be induced to fix
their' residences in such a wilderness then, without "gratuities
of land and money, and their-transportation being paid. These
were to be borne, therefore, by the Marquis. It is not at all
improbable, if his life had been spared to carry out his design,
that the cost of it would have left him but'a small part of what
at first seems, from the magnitude of the grant, to be a princi.
pality. Time only has ever repaid the actual cost of colonization; but individual settlers in new countries, wheh not
disturbed by wars, or destroyed by savages, have commonly
gathered fruits for themselves and for their posterity. Still,
the grant was- an inducement for the Marquis to attempt to
colonize it. The man who has fallen from a high estate into
nothing, seizes upon ventures to regain his elevation, and the
greater the risk he'may run and overcome, the greater will be
his pride at his re6xaltation, or, if of another temper, his thankfulness to Providence for his success.
I cannot help thinking, top, that there is a caution in the
terms of the grant, if taken in connection with the contract of
1795, very much in favor of its validity. As that contract did,
it guards against the introduction of American settlers, which,
under the foimer, the government had been able to prevent, by
making its payments and grants of land only on proof that the
families or emigrants had come from Europe. And it not only
forbids any interference with the -previous settlers within the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

887

The United-States v. King et al.

grant, who held by "title in form," or by virtue of a fresh
commission, but imposes on the Marquis an obligation "to
maintain and support them in all of their rights," - that is,
titles made and granted to other persons within the region
comprehended in the figurative plan of Trudeau, just as that
grant was made to the Marquis, and which, when they were
found to exist, the Marquis was permitted to have land elsewhere, in equal quantities.
Hitherto I hav endeavoured to show, in this part of the
case, -made so, however, only by the decision of the majority
of the court, - that the grant was authentic and genuine, from
the internal evidence in it connected with that of the contract
of 1795, and from the services of the Marquis in fulfilling that
contract, in conformity with the national policy of Spain in
respect to settlers on the Washita. But I have done so more
for the purpose of showing its reasonableness, and to resist
suggestions against it, than with any intention of relyiig upon
it myself, exclusively, as conclugive of the fact, of the execution of the grant by Carondelet, with the figurative plan of
Trudeau contemporarily annexed;- for .the execution of the
grant. is proved by the witness Tessier, just as the law of
Louisiana, or the civil law of Spain, required that it should be,
for the purpose of verifying, in the trial of a suit, any ihstmment (escritura) upon which a party in it relies for establishment of his right.
. An instrument of writing (escritura) is every deed that is
made by the hand of a public escribano, or notary of a corporation, or council (concejo), or sealed with the seal of the king,
or other authorized "person."
L. 1, tit. 18, p. 3. "Hence
arise the two kinds which- produce full faith and full proof; one public, made by the. escribano or notary, with the solemnities prescribed by laws" ; "another authentic, which is that
sealed by the' king, bishops, prelates, and great men of the
kingdom." Either of these is, in suits, judicially proved, when
such as are distinctively "public" are signed by a "public
escribano," when it is not wanting in any required solemnity,
and when the deed or original is confirmed by the register or
protocol, in the escribano's records.; and when the deed is of
that denomination called ".authentic," -from being signed by
the king, or an officer authorized by the royal order of the
king, special or general, - the proof of such signature; and the
instrument having a proper seal, establishes it, without any
reference to the protocol of it, in the public archives, when
it appears that the protocol, or order for it, has been lost, or is
beyond the jurisdiction of the court, so that the conformity betWeen the original and the protocol cannot be* ascertained by

888

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

the process of the court. It must be recollected, that the deed
given to the party is the original, though taken from the register or protocol; and that, in the law of Louisiana, or civil law
of Spain, a copy, or traslado, is the transcript from that
original.
Now, it is. by just such proof as I have mentioned, that the
grant to the Marquis de Maison Rouge has been 'established in
this case, as ah authentic original, proved not by one witness
only, but by two, with a positiveness of declaration and knowledge of the fact of the signatures to the grant'that cannot be
made stronger. Mr. Dubigny, Secretary of State for Louisiana,
(pp. 59, 54, of the record,) says, that "he recognizes the signatures ' to the deed ' of the aforesaid Baron de Carondelet, and
of Don Andres Lopez Armesto, the secretary of the government of Louisiana, as genuine, and of the proper handwriting
of these persons respe6tively; that the said instrument is in
the handwriting of Charles Tessier, Esq., of Baton Rouge,
who was then first clerk in the secretary's office "; and he
"moreover declares, that he had a knowledge thereof about the
time it was issued, and that it (the grant) "was a maker of public notoriety." This affidavit was made by Mr. Dubigny in
1824, before Galvin Prual, Esq., a justice of the peace for
the city of NeWv Orleans. Nineteen years afterwards, on the
22d of May, 1843, Charles Tessier, Esq., the same person
mentioned by Mr. Dubigny, is examined in this case, by ' vir-.
tue of a commission for that purpose issued by the Circuit
Court, and he says, in answer to the direct interrogatories put
to him, repeating the same also to the cross-interrogatories,
without deviation or alteration, except in othE: particulars,
showing his forbearance in speaking of the transaction after
such a lapse of time, -he says that "he is above sixty-geven
years of age; that he was a native of Louisiana; that he was,
when the grant, was made, principal clerk in the office of the
Spanish government for making grants of land and that he. is
now the judge of the parish of East Baton Rouge; that the
grant marked A is filled up in the handwriting of this- deponent,
who was chief clerk of the Spanish government of Louisiana at, the time, and did the land-office business in filling up
grants; that he is familiar with the handwriting of the governor, Baron de Carondolet, and of Don Andres Lopez Armesto,
secretary of the government; the deponent has often seen
them both write and sign their names; the signatures of
Governor Carondelet and Secretary Armesto to the document
A are both -genuine." What more-than the testimony of these
two witnesses- both of unquestibned character, each in his
life signalized in their community by holding offices of public

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

889

The United States v. King et al.

trust and confidence -can be wantihg, to establish the genuineness of the grant to Maison Rouge ? But there is -more.
Tessier further says, that "he has d personal knowledge of the
time when the said grant was made and issued, because he
filled it up at the time of its date; his knowledge was therefore personal, as he performed the service ; the grant was not a
secret, but of public notoriety; that the grant was denominated
and considered a titult en firma,'and was such complete and
perfect evidence of title as not to require any other to validate
or strengthen it ; that he was familiar with the operations,
forms, usages, and customs of"the land department under Governor Carondelet ; and that though he, at this distance of time,
nearly fifty years since, cnnot recollect whether Carlos Trudeau's plan and process verbal was or was not before his eyes
when, he filled up the- body of the grant A, he always obeyed
the orders of the Baron deCarondelet, and of the secretary of.
the government, Don Andres Lopez Armesto, and in this in-,
stance, as in others, performed his official duty." -He repeats,
to another interrogatory, "that at this distance of time, forty-six
years, he is unable to say whether he. had or had not'Trudeau's figurative plan and process verbal before him; but he is
certain he performed his duty, either by dictation or -written
instructions of his superiors, or by seeing the -document B
(Brengier's copy of Trudeau's figurative plan), though he cannot say in which of the three respective modes he acted upon
the occasion; there was a general form of ordinary gmnts,
which changed when the grant was special, for certain purposes and under certain conditions, and the governor or secretary then usually dictated or wrote the words of the grant,
which was afterwards copied; but he cannot recollect how it
was in this instance." And in his answer to the cross-interrogatory, he says that, "in his answers to the interrogatories in
chief, he has answered the different questions as well as he
could, and endeavoured to discriminate between their opinions
and his own personal knowledge of matters."
The proof of the grant, then, is positive, but suspicion is attempted to be thrown upon it by the denial of the fact it recites, that the. figurative plan of Trudeau was annexed to it,
when it was signed bf the governor. And that denial rests
upon Tessier's forbearing to state positively that it was before
him when he filled up the grant, and upon Girod's pamphlet
and the ex parte testimony annexed to it. Now, before any
suspicion of the grant can arise from Tessier not being able t6
swear positivyly to that fact, it must appear that it was in the
order of the-business of the Spanish land-office, and that it was
required by the laws and usages of Spain in Louisiana, that such
75
vOL. vir.

890

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al.

figurative plans - which, itmust'be remembered, are not actual
surveys, but descriptions of natural boundaries in a 'grant, in
conformity with which actual surveys were afterwards to be
made - should form a part of that muniment of title in the landoffice from which the secretary made or filled up the grant, and
that it was not sufficient for such a statement'to be-made of it
as there is in the grant in this instance. I will make no assertion upon this point in respect to what was the practice in
.Louisiana when it was a province of Spain; but Florida land
grants and those of Louisiana were made under royal orders of
the king of Spain, and I can say, that, in our judicial affirmation in this court of Florida land claims, we have not in
4ny instance called for a figurative plan in any one of them,
but have in several of them ordered surveys to be made from
the descriptions in the grants. But I may also say, that there
is a good reason why the figurative plan of an extended grant
should not have been before the secretary who filled it up at
the time when he did so, and it is this; - that the figurative
plan was a mere delineation of what the grant, by conformable
description, gave, and that,'as the verification of 'the delineation
by actual survey could only establish the locality of the land,
it was not in a condition before that was done for official registry. Under the Spanish law, the survey of the surveyorgeneral or his authorized deputies was conclusive of the locality
of the grant, but the grant itself gave property -to the grantee,
It was property meant to bq protected by the tieaty. Though
no survey had been made by the Spanish surveyors before the
treaty was made, surv6ys afterwards, 'in conformity with the
grant, have been always deemed sufficient by this court, and
where a case has occurred, under a claim of a Spanish grant,
where there had been, either before-or after the treaty, an imperfect survey, this court, upon being satisfied of the genuine ness of the grant, has ordered the survey to be made, to carry
out the grant to its originally intended consummation. See
the chse of The United States v. Forbes, 15 Peters.
*But how can the contemporary annexation of, the figurative
1 an to the Maison Rouge grant be denied in this case, after the
proof of the signatures of the governor and secretary to the
grant? Those officers assert in the grant that it was annexed,
with limits and boundaries designated by Don Carlos Trudeau.
Now, unless these signatures are disproved, or it is proved that
the govemor, Carohdelet, and the secretary, Armesto, had combined to practise a fraud upon their sovereign, by the assertion
of a fact in a deed which did not exist, the fact that it was annexed to the grant when it was made cannot be denied. The deed
or grant, when proved, is good for All that it contains, whether

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

891

The. United States v.'King et al.

it be for what is granted, or for a fact by which that is to be
thereafter practically ascertained; and 'neither is deniable but
for fraud in the making of the grant. Or the grant may be
shown to have been made without authority or contrary to law.
Neither fraud nor violation of law is imputed to this grant, and
it stands good for all that is asserted in it, against any suspicion
of fraud which alleges that the figurative plan of Trudeau had
been antedated. But, further still, against such a suspicion,
shall no force be given to the declaratibn of Trudeau himself in
such a case? His signature to the figurative plan is proved.
He was the surveyor-general, whose duty it was to make for
the governor, by his order such a figurative plan, before the
governor could make the Wrant. A plan is made purporting to
be signed by Trideau, his signature is proved to be genuine,
the governor and his secretary recognize it to be such by
ihaking a grant according to it; the character of Trudeau for
private virtue and official ability and integrity is proved by
those who knew him. If all this be-not proof positive that the
figurative plan had been made and was annexed to the grant
contemporarily with its execution, then no proof, will suffice,
and our rejection of it involves a denial of all truthful character
in the three highest functionaries then representing the king of
Spain in Louisiana, the Baron de Carondelet, Secretary Armesto,
and the Surveyer-General Trudeau. Such is the consequence
concerning these men; but I know the majority of this court
do not mean it, for if the more subordinate conditi6n of two of
them had not imposed upon their contemporaries the conviction
that they were uninfected by the corruption which we are too
apt to suppose degraded the provincial officers of Spain, the
Baron Carondelet lived in his long career of public service to
his sovereign, and died in it, unsuspected.
I will not take up further time by making any remarks
upon the suggestion, that the grant of June, 1797, was not
meant to convey lan4l to the Marquis'de Maison Rouge for himself, but was a grant for emigrants, as the contract of 1795 with
him was, except. to say, that it would indeed be very singular
if the two were for the same purpose; that in that of 1795 the
government of Spain bore all the burdens of colonization, and
in the grant of June 20th, 1797, no provision is made for such a
purpose, but they were to be borne by the Marquis de Maison
Rouge, an impoverished emigrd from France, and whose poverty in his humble residence in a wilderness, bought by him for
a small price, is proved in the record, and relied upon by this
court, as it is shown in his will by his use of the word bienes as
a reason that such a grant was not made to him. He used that
word bienes- as any otber person who had been brought up

892

SUPREME COU RT.
The United States v. King et al.

under the civil law would have done - as signifying all that a
man can own, or which can be property. Besides, however, the
difference in regard to the expenses of colonization in the two
instruments just mentioned, that they were not meant for the
same purpose, without benefit to the Marquis in the last, is veryconclusively -shown by the fact that they were made by different authorities, - the one by the--governor, Carondelet, without
operation until it received the approval of the king, because it
involved the expenditure of the king's revenue; that of June,
1,797, by'the govrernor himself, who, by the royal order, was
authorized to make grants of land without the special assent of
the king to such grants.
It is true that the language of the grant to the Marquis, after
saying that he "1is near completing the establishment of the
Washita, which he was authorized to make for thirty fimilies
by the royal order of July 14th, 1705," does recite further,
"that, desirous to removie for the future all doubt respecting
other families or colonists who may come to establish themselves, we destine and appropriate conclusively for the establishment of the'aforesaid Marquis de Maison Rouge 'the thirty
superficial leagues marked in the plan annexed to the head of
this instrument." But the extension of colonization implied
by it certainly cannot become a fact of a previous contract for
that purpose, almost already completed, 'without the same terms
for its enlargement as the king of Spain imposed upon his treasury in the first contract, or other terms expressed and assented
to by the Marquis. And I will further say, if this grant, from
its terms, can be interpreted to convey land for emigrants, of
which the Marquis was only a trustee, that the terms used in it
will be equally effective to convey to the Marquis the dominion
of the land for himself, if the facts in the case and the reasoning
upon them shall preponderate in favor of the latter interpretation. In other words, the suggestion of the court in the opin-ion, of a conveyance having been in'tended -for colonists, and
not for the Marquis, admits, so far as the suggestion conveys
the first idea, that the words of the grant are sufficient to convey the land by such an instrument. There can be no objection to the grant, then, on account of a deficiency of formal
terms of conveyance. Such services were never required by
the civil law of Spain to make a good grant for land. Any
words for that purpose are enough, in a grant iom which an
equitable title can be inferred for'the grantee. The suit of the
United States against King is in the nature of a writ of ejectment. Inasmuch, however, as the distinction, so well known
in England -and in our States in the United States, between
courts -of equity and courts of common law does not prevail in

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

893

The United -States v. King et aL

Louisiana, what in England woufldbe recognized as a purely
equitable title'may serve as well in a court in Louisiana as a
perfect legal title, either to maintain the claim of -the United
States, or as a defence on the part of the defendant against such
demand. In the case of The United States v. Fitzgerald, 15
Peters, this -court. recognized what has tjust .been *said to. be
the correct'doctrine of the Circuit Court of the United States
sitting in Louisiana, and gave judgment for the defendant'in awrit of error, upon a right purely equitable,. against the strictly
legal title of the United States, in a petitory action for the recovery of land.
But let it be admitted, for the sake of the argument, that the
instrument of June 20th, 1797, was designed to carry out more
extensively the contract of 1795, either for the benefit of the
settlers who had been already ,introduced under that contract,
or for other colonists who 'Might thereafter be placed upon the
land by the Marquis, I cannot see how the 'right of the Ufiited
States to recover-in this action isin any way strengthened.
Whether the thirty leagues were assigned to the Marquis for
his own use, or in trust.for others, - whether he was tb be the
sole and exclusive, proprietor, or was to hold it, as is contended,
for 'the benefit of others, - is a question with which the United
States have nothing to do. That is wholly between the Marquis, as holding the legal title, and those who may advance. a
claim as cesmui que use.
In either case, the land was severed from the'public domain
and became private property. It could not, in either case, pass,
by any construction of the treaty, to the United States. They
have neither a legal nor'equitable title to the land. In order to
entitle the United States to a judgment, they must affirmatively
aver and prove a-title in themselves.
The very pretension that the Marquis received this' grant as
a trustee for otflers is as fatal against a recovery by the United
States as if the entire legal and equitable title were conceded
to be, as in my judgment it is clearly shown to be, vested absolutely and excfusively in the Marquis de Maison Rouge.
I have written much upon this case, I know, -more than I
usually permit myself to do in any case; but less would not
have shown the judicial history of this, from the beginning of
the action to its. first appearance in this court, or our judgment
and vacated judgment afterwards, and now the .course which
this court has taken upon the writ of error to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court.
One word more. The mandate upon the, decision here made
is for the reversal of the judgmeht given in favor of King for
the land for which the United States sued him. The case will
I 75.k

894

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et aL

of course be before the Circuit Court of Louisiana again, whennew evidence on both, sides may be introduced, or, if that does
not exist, for that court to correct the error in its judgment.
It cannot do so by any decision of this court upon the bills bf
exceptions in the record. The reversal is for causes or errors
,said to be in the judgment. If, then, the Circuit Court shall, in
its further trial of this cause, be of the opinion that the evidence
proves title to the land in king, .1 presume that the mandate
will be satisfied if it gives ajudgment in his favor again for that
quantity of land for which the United States has sued, without
saying any thing about the validity of the title, or declaring that
Mr. Coxe is an owner, of any part of the Maison Rouge grant.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and'was argued by counsel. On consideration iwhereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to that court to enter judgment for the United
States for the land described in the petition.

