JANUARY TERM, 1849;

573

Tyler v.'Hand et al.

and adjudged by thtis court, that the judgment of the said Court
for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors be'
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and- that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said.Court for the
Trial of Impeachments and the.Correction of Errors, in order
that further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity to
the aforesaid opinion and judgment of this court.
NounIs v. C0r- OF BosToN.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court, that the third section of the' act of the
legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts of the 20th
of April, 1837, entitled, 11A n act -relatig.to, alien passengers,"
under which the money mentioned in the record and pleadings
was demanded of the plaintiff in.error; and paid by him, is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
therefore void. Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged b this court, that the judgment -of the said Supreme
Judicial Court of. Massachusetts be and the same is hereby re.versed, with costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Supreme Judicial Court, in order that
further proceedings may be had therein in conformity to the
aforesaid opinion and judgment of this court.

JOnN TmEu, wno IS A CITIZEN OF VIRGINIA,. PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, AND SUCCESSOR IN OFFICE OF MARTIN VAN BuREN,
AND TRUSTEE FOR THE USE OF THE ORPHAN CHILDREN PROVIDED
FOR IN THE NIxNETEENTH ARTICLE OF THiE TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS, OF SEPTEMBER, 1830, PIAINTIFF IN ERRORI, V. JOHN H.

HAND, JOHN HuDDLESTON, AND ToxA s

G. BLEwETT, DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.
A general demurrer by the defendant, assigning reasons why the plaintiff should not
recover, must be considered and treated as a special demurrer, which is an objection for defects in form.
In this case, none of the reasons are valid as objections to a matter of form, but the
court, nevertheless, *l examine them as if brought forward. to sustain a general
demurrer.
Where bonds were given to the President of the United States, and his successors in
office, for the use of the orphan children of certain Indians, and the deplaration so
averred, it was not a good cause of demurrer to iflege that they were taken without authority of law. They were valid instruments, though voluntarily given and
not prescribed by law; and as the demurrer admitted the facts sated in the
declaration, the defendant was estopped from contesting the right of the obligee
to sue.

SUPREME' COURT.
Tyler v. Hand et al.
So, alsO'was not a valid reason to ay, in support of the demurrer, that the bonds
were giveif without consideration; and if there was any illegality in the transaction, it should have been pleaded in bar.
Where the defendant demurred, and assigned as a reason that the place of abode of
the plaintiff, or his Aight to sue, was not set forth in the declaration, it was demuring in abatement, and the judgment of the court, if the demurrer be overruled,
-will be final for the plaintiff.
So, also, it is not a good ground for the defendant to say that the plaintiff has shown
no title to the bonds. It is not a good objection to a matter of form or substance.
Nor was it a good ground of demurrer to say that the cestui W use was not named
in the declaration. The demurrer admits that the recital of the use in the declaration was correct, and it was not necessary for the plaintiff to set out the individual uses, when the uses wer6 general in the bonds.

THis cause was brought up, by writ of error, from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Mississippi.
The circumstances were these.
By the treaty of Dancing Rab]bit Creek, of the 27th September, 1830, the Choctaw nation ceded to the "United States the
entire country they owned and possessea east of the Mississippi
River. The nineteenth article (7 Stat. at Large, 336, 337),
allowing certain reservations to be made, by its sixth section
provides as follows: "Sixthly.'Likewise, children of the Choctaw nation, residing in the nation, who have neither father nor mother a list
of which, with satisfactory proof of parentage and orphanagei
being filed with the agent in six months, to be for*arded to
the War Depaftment, shall be entitled to a quarter-section of
land, to be located under the direction of the President; and
with his consent the same may be sold, and the proceeds
applied to some beneficial urpose for the benefit of said

.orphans."
- The number of orphans entitled to. the provision above recited was one hundred and thirty-four; and the lands having
been selected, the same were sold in quarter-sections at public
sale in- 1838, by Mr. Aaron V. Brown, under the direction ofPresident Van Buren, for a sum amounting to upwards of one
hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars. -The purchasers
were entitled to a credit of two, four, and six years, were to
give security for the payment of the purchase-money, with
interest, and no title was to be given until the whole amount
of principal and interest was paid. Thomas G. Blewett became a purchaser of several pieces of the land, and, together
with John H. Hand and John Huddleston, executed joint and
several b6nds. to "Martin Van Buren, President of the United
States, and his successors in office, for the use. of the orphan
children provided for in the nineteenth article of the trea'ty
with the Choctaws of September, 1830." The bonds bore the.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

575

Tyler v. Hand et al.

following dates, and were for the following sums of money,
viz.: 1838, May 28,
"
cc

"

"

9

"

c

"

"

"

"

$ 300
300
300
300
600

1838, May 28,
"
June 6,
cc
cc "
"
"
C
"
" C

$,250
300
300
350
450

The bonds were given as security for the payment of the,
interest upon certain notes for the principal, which last-mentioned notes were recited in the above ten bonds.
In Ma, 1843, John Tyler. as President of the Utiifted States,
brought an action of debt upon these bonds in the DiStrict
Court for the Northern District of Mississippi, which exercised
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court.
The declaration contained a count for each separate bond,
the first of which was as follows, viz. "John Tyler, who is a citizen of Virginia, President of the
United States,' and successor in office of Martin Van Buren,
and trustee for the use -of the orphan children provided for in
the nineteenth article of the treltr with the Choctaws of September, 1830, by attorney, complainj of Thomas G. Blewett,
John Huddleston, and John H. Hand,, citizens of the State of
Mississippi, being in the custody of the marshal, &c., of a plea
that they render unto him. the sum of thirty-four hundred and
fifty dollars., which to him they owe, and from him unjustly
d6tain; for that whereas the said defendants, by the way and
style of Thomas G. Blewett, John Huddleston, and J. H. Hand,
heretofore, to wit, on the 28th day of May, A. D. 1838' at, to
wit, in the district aforesaid, by their certain writing obligatory,
sealed with their seals, and now here to the court shown, the
date whereof is a certain day and year theiein mentioned, to
wit, the day and year aforesaid, jointly and severally acknowledged themselves to be held and firmly bound to Maitiri Van
Buren, President of the United States, and his successors- in
office, for the use of the orphan children provided for in the
nineteenth article of the treaty with the Choctaws of September, 1830, in the sum of three hundred dollars, to be paid to
the said Martin Van Buren,' President as aforesaid, and his successors in office, in good and lawful money of the United
States; and the said plaintiff avers that he is President of the
United States, and a successor in office of Martin Van Buren,
which said writing obligatory was and is subject to a condition
thereunder -written, to wit, that whereas the said Thomas G.
Blewett, on the 28th day of May, 1838, at a public sale of the
Choctaw orphan lands, -had and held in the town of Columbus,

SUPREME COURT.
Tyler v. 3Hand et al.

became and was the purchaser of northwest quarter of section
thirty-two, township twenty-three, range eight east,-for which
the said Thomas G. Blewett has executed his three several
notes with Thomas McGee, John Huddleston, -and John H.
Hand-, his securlty, to Martin Van Buren, President of the
United States, for the use of the Choctaw orphan. children provided for in the niheteenth article of the treaty'with the Choctawi of September, 1830, to wit, one note dated the 28th day
of May, 1838, and due the 28th day of May, 1840, for two hundred and fourteen dollars and twenty-six'cents; one other, note
of same date and amount, due the 28th day of May, 1842 : and
one other note of the same date and amount, due the. 28th day
of May, 1844. All of said several bonds or notes, by the terms,
of said purchase, are to bear interest from their date at the rate.
of six per cent. per annum. Now, if said Thomas G,. Blewett
shall pay or cause to be paid interest at . the rate of.six per.
centum per annum on said several notes at the expiration of
each and every year from the 'date of the same, in- good and
lawfulmoney of the United States, at the office of the Com.missioner of Indian Affairs, in Washington city, then this
obligation to be void, otherwise to be good and binding as by
the. said writing obligatory, and the condition thereof will more
fully and at large appear.
"Nevertheless," &c. (setting out the breach).
To this declaration, the defendants filed the following demurrer, viz. "And said defendants, by attorney, come and defend the
wrong and injury, whefi, &c., and say that the plaintiff ought
not to have or maintain his aforesaid action thereof against
them, because they say that the declaration and matter .therein
contained are insufficient in law for the plaintiff to maintain
his aforesaid action thereof against them, -and that they are
not bound by law to answer the same, and this they are ready
to verify; wherefore, they pray judgment, and that the plaintiff be barred from having or maintaining his aforesaid action
thereof' against them, and according to che statute they state
.
and show the following causes of demurrer, viz.
"1st. That there is no sufficient averment in the proceedings or record showing the citizenship or place of abode
of the plaintiff, -or that he is, by reason of the nature of his
place of abode and citizenship, qnt tled by law to maintain said
suit,
"2d. That the plaintiff, shows no title to the bonds or obligations-sued on, nor such an interest in the suit as will authorize him to maintain the same.
"3d. That the parties for whose use-the suit is brought (who,

JA91JARY TERM, 1849.

577

Tyler v. Hand et al.

by the laws of Mississippi, are the real plaintiffs, and responsible
for costs) are not named in the record.
. - 4th. That said bonds sued on were taken without authority
of lawy the said Martin Van Buren, President of 'the United
States, having.no such delegated pbwer, and having no right
to make the Isame payable to himself and his tuccessors in
office, or to assume to himself or his successors in, office a legal
perpetuity and succession unknown to the said office and noqt
given by. law.
"5th. That said bonds in the declaration mentioned appear,
from the face of the pleadings, to have been given without
any .actuial consideration, .and -by virtue of an assumption of
authority on the part of said Martin Van 'Buren to dispose of
said orphan Indian lands at public sale,, without any legal right
to sell the same, . And btcause the said declaration is in other
respects informal aid insuffi6ient."
The plaintiffs joined in demurrer, and in December, 1844,
the case was argued upon the 'demurrer, which was sustained
by the-court.
To review this judgment, a writ of error brought the case up
to this court.
It was argued at the preceding term, and held under a curia
advisarevult.
It was argueid, ona- the pait of the plaintiff in error, by Mr.
Clifford, then Attorney-General, and o4 the part of the defendants in error, by Mr. Eaton and Mr. Fbote, with whom
were Mr S. Adams and Mr. Bibb.
The Attorney-General, for the plaintiff in error, stated -the
facts in the case, and proceeded as follows.
For error it is assigned,1st. That the suit was well brought in the name of John
Tyler, a citizen of the State of Virginia.
2d. That the plaintiff, as the successor of President Van
Bren, had title to the bonds *sued-on,
3d. ,That there was no necessity that -the parties for whose
use th suit .was brodightshould be named in the record.
4th. That the bonds' sued on were lawfully taken to Mr.
Van Buren, as President, and his successors in office.
5th. That Mr. Van Baren had authority to dispose of the
lands, and that there was no failure of consideration.
I. The declaration avers, that John Tyler, the plaintiff, is a
citizen of the State of-Virginia, President of the United States,
and successor in.-office of Martin Van Buren. This is the
usual mode of averring citizenship, and meets the requirements
of the Constitution and the Judiciary Act on the subject.
vo: vil.
49

578

_SUPREVE COURT.
Tyler v. Hand et al.

II. The-declaration avers, that the bonds were taken payable io Martin Van Buren, President of the United States, and
his. successors in office. If Mr. Van Buren had any title, to the
bonds in question while President, and as President, then Mr.
Tyler, as his successor, had the same title. The title was not
-in Mr. Van Buren individually, but in him as President. The
bonds -were executed to him as President of the United States,
and his successors; and the suit is well brought in the name of
Mr. Tyler, who was in office at the time it was commenced.
No principle is better settled than the one which asserts that
no suit could be commenced in the name of Mr. Van Buren
after he had retired from the office of President, and of course
it must be brought in the name of his successbr, according to
the terms of the bond. This is the law and the contract.
The point is destitute of all merit, as it seems to me, and need
not be further examined.
III. There is no law requiring a plaintiff who sues as trustee
to name in the record the parties for whose use the suit is
brought; and if there were, it could not apply to a case like
the preent. It-is presumed the demurrer is.based upon the
thirtieih section of the process act of Mississippi, which falls
far short of sustaining the position assumed by the defendants.
It provides that, "if any suit or action shall be commenced in
any court of record in this State, in the name of any person
for the use and benefit of another, the same shall not abate by
the death of the noininal plaintiff, but shall progress to final
judgment, and execution may be awarded thereon in like manner as if brought in the name of the person for whose use or
benefit such suit or action was instituted, who shall be liable
for the costs of suit -as in other cases." (H. & H. Miss. Laws,
584.)
I The act nowhere makes any such requirement as is supposed by the demurrer. It authorizes the suit to progress,
notwithstanding the death of the nominal plaintiff; and in
such cases costs are allowed.
This action is therefore well brought 'in the name of the
trustee, who must hold whatever may be recovered, subject to
the disposition which the law authorizes and directs, for the
benefit of the cestui que trust. The point, being unaffected by
the Mississippi act, stands upon general principles, which are
clearly against.the defendants.
The description given of the cestui que trusts in the declaration follows. the language of the bond, and is therefore sufficient. It might, -however,' have been wholly omitted, and,
being entirely immaterial, may be rejected as surplusage, and
cannot embarrass the suit.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

.579

Tyler v. -- and. et al.

IV. That these bonds were lawfully taken, and made payable to the President for th4 time being, and to -his successors
in office, there can be no doubt. To take securities for the
lands sold, if it should be deemed most advantageous for the
interests of the Indian orphans that they should be sold on
credit, was not only an incident to the power to make the-sale,
but an obvious duty incumbent on the President. It was no
more than an act of common prudence to see that the securities
were exeduted in such form that payment could be enforced,
if delayed beyond the period when he might expect to retire
from office, and to leave the trust reposed in him in the hands
of a successor. United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115; Lord
v. Dall, 12 Mass. 115; Dugan v. United States, 3 Wheat.
172; Commonwealth v. Wolbert, 6 Binney, 292.
V. The fifth ground of demurrer raises the main question involved in the case. The defendants contend that the
bonds were given without any actual consideration; the President having, as they allege, no authority to. dispose of the
lands.
The first question is, Can this point be raised on the :ecord
as it stands ? The declaration does not state of whom the purchase was made, or by what athority the sale took place.
Until it otherwise appears, it niuist be presumed that it was
made by virtue of a lawful authority. - A bend under seal imports a consideration without its being expressed; and a want
or failure of consideration is not sufficient at law to'a;void a
specialty.
(Vrooman v. Phelps, 2 Johns. 177; Dorlan v.
Sammis, lb. 179; Dorr v. Munsell, 13 Johns. 430.) A note
in Petdrsdorff's Abridgment, Vol. IV. p. 613, cites a number
of cases to the same effect, and defines the true rule on the
subject.
It is a very great error, as it seeni-to me, to suppose that
there is any want of consideration in these bonds appearing on
the face of the record and pleadings-. It is a familiar principle
that, the demurrer admits every thing that is well pleaded;
and under this rule the point is nct open to the defendants even
by the Mississippi statute, which requires a special plea to
authorize a party " to impeach any writing under seal, or to go
into the consideration of the same2. (H. & H. Miss. Lawp,
589.)
But was it competent for the President to direct the sale. of
these lands? It is contended, on the part of the -defendants,
that he had no such authority, but that the Indian orphans
took a fee-simple estate under the treaty, as tenants in coinmon, and that they were in all respects competent to dislhse
of the lands thusvested-in them, subject only to the consent.of-

580

•SUPREME

COURT.

Tyler v. Hand et al.

the President for the time being.. It is, however, insisted for
*the plaintiff, that the terms of the-provision do not in the-least
degree countenance any such construction of the treaty. It
might;. perhaps, be considered a sufficient answer to this proposition of the defendants, to ask the attention of the court to
the fact,-that no, particular Indian, for whose benefit the lands
were to be reserved and selected, is named in this 'provision.
Even the number entitled. 'was unknown,'and had to be subsequently ascertained in virtue of the 'tipulation under which
this pretension is set up.
The true intent and 5urpose of the provision seems to me
to be apparent. It was to, create a trust for the benefit of the
orphans, of which the President of the Ubited States was declared to be the"ustee, 'nd which he was to. execute. The
objedt of the trust was to create a fund .for the benefit of the
orphans, in which all were to participate equally. This is the
leading idea in the provision. The construction contended for
on the other side would defeat the end intended to be accomplished." The language of the provision is not, it is admitted,
precise, but its true meaning and intention cannot well be mistaken. When the number of orphans entitled had been ascertamined in the manner prescribed, and the list of them f6rwarded
to the War Department, the lands were to be located under the
direction of the President, and with his consent sold, and, with
the like consent, the proceeds were to be applied for s ome
beneficial purpose for the benefit of the orphans. The legal
title to the lands in question was vested in the United States,
and Was' held by them in subordination to this provision, giving authority to the President to sell and invest the proceeds
for some beneficial object in accordance with the trust. That
the legal title to the whole lands of the Choctaw nation east
of the Mississippi became vested in the United States is clear,
not- only from the third article by which the cession is made,
but from the fourteenth, which provides for reservations to such
Choctaws as were degirous to become citizens of the United
States, and especially from the provision'which stipulates that
grants in fee simple should issue from the United States to this
class of Indians. The other reservations in the nineteenth
article are to certain parties by name, and to certain classes of
the.Indians who had made improvements, and furnish no argument to illustrate" this case. 'These reservations' stand' on a
very differetit footing from those of the orphans. They were
ascertained and certain, and constituted the homes in which the
'Ipdians lived. But in the case of the orphans, the lands had
no identity, and,, when selected, were to' be sold to raise a fund
for their benefit.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

581

Tyler v. Hland et aL

Mr. Eaton and Mr. Foote, for the defendants in error,
rested their argument upon the point that the President had no
power to order the sale; that the treaty secured to him no
such authority, and that if he could be considered in the character of trustee, even then he was incapable by law to delegate the trust to another, and being so delegated, the act and
every thing under it were void. This point was illustrated
with great particularity.
Mr. Adams contended that the court below did not err in
sustaining the demurrer, and that the judgment should be affirmed -lst. For the reasons that the President had no authority to sell, had no title in himself, nor obligation upon others
to .make title';' that he was not a trustee With power to sell for
the benefit of the Indians, or otherwise; and that the contract
is void for the want of proper parties and consideration. 2d.
That the fee is still in the reservees, who cannot be deprived
of it but by their own act, with the consent of the President,
or the law. 3d. For the reasons assigned in the first, second,
third, and fourth special causes of demu~rer.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit is brought upon ten bonds payable to Martin Van
Buren, President of the United States, and his successors in
office, for the use of the orphan children lrovided for in the
nineteenth article of the treaty with the Choctaw Indians
of September, 1830.
The principal and interest due upon the bonds are demanded, and the plaintiff in the action, John Tyler, sues as successorThe
of Martin
Van Buren and trustee for the orphan children.
defendants
have demurred to the plaintiff's declaration,
pursuing the usual form of a general demurrer, and, have added thereto several special causes of demurrer. There is a
joinder in demurrer. Upon these pleadings, the court below
sustained the demurrer of- the defendants. It is that judgment
which is now before this court by writ of error.
In our opinion, there is error in the judgment. We shall reverse it, with an order to the court below to enter up a final
judgment for the plaintiff.
-The cause is not before us on the grounds upon which it
was placed in argument by the counsel of the defendants, except as to the insufficiency of the facts averred in the plaintiff's
declaration to entitle him to recover, or to enable the defendants to sustain their demurrer.
A demurrer is an objection made, by one party to his oppdnent's pleading, alleging that he ought lot to answer it, for
49 *

582

SUPRk]ME

C ountS

Tylir v.Hand et al.

some defect in .law in the pleading. It admits tile facts, and
refers the law arising thereon to the court (Co. Lit. 71. b; 5
Nod. 132.) The opposite party may demur when his oppo-.
no;ntis pleading is defective in substance or form, but there can
ne no demurrer for a defect not apparent in the pleadings.
This being so, the question now is, whether or not, notwithstanding .the objections in substance and form which the defendants have -made to the plaintiff's declaration, sufficient
matter appear in the pleadings, upon which the court may
give judgment according to the very right of the case. Five
special causes -of demurrer are assigned; they were of course
mneant to be objections for defects in form, as .none othler can
be assigned in aa special demurrer. A general demurrer .ies
only for defects in -substance, and excepts to the sufficiency of
the pleading in general terms, without showing specially the
-nature of the objection. A special demurrer is .only for defects in form, and adds to the terms of a general d~murrer a
specification of the particular ground of exception.
Our first remark, then, is; that neither of the special causes
of demurrer alleged in this case is for a matter of form. They
are as follows :
" lst. That there is'no sufficient averment in the proceedings or record showing the citizenship or place of abode of the
plaintiff, or that he is, by reason of the nature of his place of
abode and citizenship, entitled by law to maintain said suit.
"2d. That the plaintiff shows no title to the bonds or obligations suied of, nor such an interest in'the suit as will authorize
him to maintain fhe same.
*"3d -That the parties for. whose use the suit is brought (who,
by the laws of Mississippi, are the real plaintiffs, and responsibhle for costs) are not named in the record.
" 4th. That said bonds sued on were taken without authority
of law, the said Martin Van Buren, President of the United
States, having no such delegated power, and having no right
to make the same payable to himself and his successors in
office, or to assume to himself or his successors in office a legal
perpetuity and succession unknowni to the said offide, and no.t
given by law.
"5th. That said bonds in the declaration mentioned appear,
from the face of the pleadings, to have been given without any
actual consideration, and by virtue of an assumption of authority on the part of said, Martin Van Buren to dispose of
said orphan Indian lands at public sale, without any legal right
to sell the same. And because the said declaration is in other
respectsinformal and insufficient."
The case, then, is before -the court upon a general demurrer,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

583

Tyler v. Hand et al.

inwhich must be considered the whole record, and judgment
should be given for the party who on the whple appears to be
'entitled to it. (Le Bret v. Papillon, 4 Ep st,%02.) It cannot
b6 better shown in this case for whom the judgment should
be, than by showing that the special causes of objection assigned, supposing them to have been made as matters of, substance, are not sufficient in law to prevent a recovery by the
plaintiff. We will first speak of the fourth .and fifth, because
they are the chief reliance of the defendants to show that no
judgment can be rendered against them.
The fourth is, that the bonds given by the defendants were
taken without authority of law. The fifth is, that it appears
from the face of the pleaaings they were given without any
actual -consideration. Neither of these points can be raised in
this case by a demurrer. As to the first of the two, it was
not necessary to aver-in the declaration that the bonds were
taken with the authority of law, -nor is it so averred. The
bonds are made to the President of the United States and his
successors in office, for the use of the orphan children pr6vid•ed for in the ninoteenth article of the treaty with the Choctaw Indians of September, 1830. They are so recited in the
declaration, and are admitted by the defendants to have been
given by them. In point of law, then, they are valid instruments, though voluntarily given, and not prescribed by, lawy
(United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115.) It is not the case
of a bond given contrary to law, or4 in violation of law, but
that of bonds given voluntarily for a consideration expressed
in them to a public officer, but not happening to be.prescribed
by law. Nor does it matter that they are made to the President of the United States and his successors in office, if the
political official character of the President is recognized in
them, and is so averred in the declaration. This cause of demurrer, whether well taken or not, admits" the fact that the
bonds were given, aud estops the defendants from denying it
as a matter of form, or from contesting by a demurrer the
right of the obligee and his successors in office to sue the obligors at law.
As to the alleged want .of consideration for
these bonds, as stated in the fifth special cause of demurrer,
that affords no ground for a demurrer, as a bond cannot be
avoided at law either for a want or failure of consideration,
and any thing illegal in the consideration can only be pleaded
in bar to the action. (Fallowes v. Taylor, 7 T. R. 475.)
But it is said that these bonds were given without any actual 'consideration, the President, as it is alleged, having no
authority to dispose, of. the land. What of that? The .declaration does not state of whom the purchase was made, or by

584

SUPREME COURT.
Tyler v. Hand et aL

what authority the 'sale took place. The defendants, admit
that a sale did take place, that they were purchasers of the
lands, and that they gave the bonds voluntarily, according to
the terms of sale. Neither of these questions, then, can be
raised under the demurrer of the defendants, and could not
have been the foundation of the judgment given in their
favor.
Having disposed of the fourth and fifth special causes of
demurrer, we will now inquire, in their order, whether or not
the judgment which was given can be sustained upon either
of the other alleged grounds.
The first is, "That there is no sufficient averment in the
proceedings showing the citizenship or place of abode of the
plaintiff, or that he is, by reason of the nature of his place of
abode and citizenship, entitled. by law to maintain this suit."
This cannot justify the judgment, because it is demurring in
abatement., In such a. case the plaintiff is entitled to final
jtfdg'ment.. If the matter of abatement be extrinsic, the defendant must 'plead it. If intrinsic, the court will act upon it
upon motion, or notice it of themselves.
(Dockminique v.
Davenant, Salk. 220.) But it does not follow, because a demurrer in abatement cannot be- available for the defendant,
that it is to be rejected altogether from the pleading, if tendered in 'proper time. It will be re'ceived, but being erroneously put in, it entitles the plaintiff to final judgment, so that
for this reason the judgment of the court below would have
to be reversed.

'

.

Perhaps the best exposirion of this point of pleading anywhere to be found is that. given in Furniss et al. v. Ellis and
Allen, in 2 Brockenbrough's Reports 17, by Chief Justice
Marshall. He says, " The cases quoted to show that the demurrer is not good, do not showthat even in England it ought
.not to be received, if tendered in proper Lime. In 5 Bac. Abr.
459, it is said, if a defendant demur in abatement, the court
will, notwithstanding, give a final judgment, because there
cannot be a demurrer in abatement.- This does not prove that
the demurrer shall be rejected, but that it shall be received,
and that the judgment upon it shall be final. A judgmen. on
a plea in abatement, or on a demurrer to a plea in abatement, is
not final, but on a demurrer.which contains matter in abatement it shall be final, because a demurrer cannot partake of
the character of a plea in abatement. Salk. 220; is quoted by
Bacon, and is to the same purport, indeed in the same words.
These cases show that a demurrer, being in its own nature a
plea to the action and being even in form a plea .to the action,
shall not be considered as a plea in abatement, though the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

585

Tyler _..Uand -etsl

special cause alleged for demurring be matter of abatement.
This court will disregard these special causes, and, considering
the demurrer independently of them, will decide upon it as if
they had not been inserted -init." And then the Chief Jurtice adds, in respect to the particular case then- in hand, that
"these cases go far to show that the court would overrule the
demurrer, and decide the cause against the party demurring,
not that it should be expunged from the pleadings."
The second ground of special demurrer is, that the plaintiff
shows no title to the bbnds or obligations sued on, nor such-an
interest in the suit as will authorize him to maintain an action
on the'same. Neither fact stated is a matter of form, and cannot therefore be a cause for a special demurrer. But taking
them as matters of substance, the insertion of them in the
*plaintiffs declaration is not necessary to show his right to sue
and recover upon these bonds, or material for the defendants in
their plea. This objection will not avail to sustain the judgment.
The remaining objection to be considered is the third in
order stated, and may be as briefly and .s satisfactorily disposed of as some of the rest have been. It is, that the parties for whose use the suit is brought are not named, who by
the laws of Mississippi are the real plaintiffs, and responsible
for costs. We remark, that for whose use the bonds were taken
is, not recited as personal to any of the Choctaw orphans, but
as an aggregate for all such as were entitled to lands under the
nineteenth article of the treaty. The demurrer admits that
the bonds were so made by the defendants, and that tlhrecital in the declaration is as the fact is expressed in the bonds.
The inquiries, then, into who are individually the orphan children residing in the Choctaw nation, or who by name are entitled to a quarter-section of land, or any such averments in
the plaintiff's declaration, were not necessary to entitle him to
recover, and could not be shown either as a cause of special
deihrrer or be urged under a general demurrer, to prevent a
recovery in this case.
All of us are of the opinion, that there is nothing in the
causes of demurrer which were shown in argument, or in the
special causes assigned, to sustain the demurrer, 4nd thinking,
as we all do, that nothing has been shown to lessen the obligation of the defendants to pay these bonds, or their liability
to be sued for them at law, -we shall direct the judgment of
the court below to be reversed, with costs, and shall orddr the
cause to be remanded to the District Court,-with directions to
that court to enter judgment in this case (principal and interest) for the plaintiff in that court.

SUPREME COURT.

586

Kennedy's Executdrs et aL z).Hunt's Lessee-et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District -Court of the United States, for the
Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said District
Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
to the said District Court; with directions to that court to enter judgment in this case for both principal and interest for the
plaintiff in that court.

ExEcuToRs ET AL., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. LESSEE OF. JONATHAN HUNT, JOHN HAGAN ET AL., DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.

JOSHUA KINNEDY'S

Forbes and Company obtained a grant of land in 1807 from Morales, IntendantGeneral uder the Spanish government4 which land was adjacent to Mobile, in
West Florida. This grant purported to be, in part, the confirmation of a concession granted in 1796 and surveyed in 1802. The survey terminated at highwater-mark upon the river.
The grant of 1807 included the land between the then bank of the river and the
high-water-mark of 1802.
This grant of 1807 wag excepted from the operation of the act of Congress
passed on the 26th of March, 1804, which annulled allSpanish grants made after
the 1st of October, 1800, and was recognized as a valid grant by the act of 3d
I
March, 1819. An act of March 2d, 1829, confirmed an incomplete Spanish concession which was
alleged to draw after it, as a consequence, certain riparian rights conflicting with
those claimed under the grant of 1807.
A decision of a State court, giving the land covered by these riparianrights to the
claimants under the grant of 1807, was only a construction of a perfected Spanish title, and cannot be reviewed by this court under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act. It did not draw in question an act of Congress or any authority exercised under the Constitution or laws of the United States.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error, i~sued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.

" It w'as argued by M11r. John 0. Sargeit and Mr. Johnson,.
for the, plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Underwood and Mr.
Sargeant,for the defendants in error.
The points made by the coumsel for the plaintiffs in error
were the following.

