JANUARY

TERM, 1849..

729

Cutler v. Rae.

complainants ,o 'the relief they ask. And consequently, the
omission to answer (if the answer be open to that objection)
furnishes 'no ground of exception. It is not a sufficient foundation for an exception, that a fact. charged in a bill is not answered, unless the fact is material, and might contribute to.
support the equity of the case of the complainant, and induce
the court to. give the relief sought by the bill.
The exceptions ought, therefore, to have beeri overruled, and
we shall direct it to be so certified to the Circuit Court.

Orde.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the. United. States, for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and on the points or questions
on which the judges of the said Circuit Pourt were opposed in
opinion, and which were certified to this court, for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and piovided, and was argued by counsel. On' cQnsideration'whereof,
it is the opinion of 'this dourt, that the exceptions by the complainants were not well- taken, and ought--to- have ben overruled. Whereupon, it'is now here orderei and decreed i that it
be so certified to the said Circuit Court,

PLiNY CuTLiR, APPELLANT, .V.WILLLx

A.

RAE.

Where a vessel was run on shore by the captain in order to save the lives of those
on b6ard, and for the preservation of the cargo, by which act the vessel was totally
lost, but the cargo saved and delivered to the consignee, a libel in personam, filed
by the owner of the vessel against the consignee of the cargo, (and the result would
be the same if filed against the owner of the cargo) for a contribution by way
of geneial average, cannot be sustain-.d in the admiralty courts of the .United
States.
Those courts have jurisdiction wherever the vessel or cargo is subject to an absolute
lien, created by the 'maritime law; and will follow property subject to. such a lien
into the hands of assignees. The lien, in sucx cases, does not depend upon po8session.
But in cases of general average, the lien is a qualified one, depends upon the possession of the goods, and ceases when they are delivered to the owner or consignee.
Whatever may be the liability of~the owner after he has received his cargo, it is
founded upon an implied promise to contribute to the reimbursement of the
owner of the lost vessel, which promise is implied by the common law, and not by
the maritime law.
The case is, therefore, beyond the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty, and the libel'
must be dismissed.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
It was a libel filed in the District Court, as a court of admi-

790

SUPREME COURT.
Cutler v. Rae.

ralty and maritime jurisdiction, by Rae, the owner of a vessel
called the Zamora, against Cutler, in a cause of contribution
or g eneral average,- civil and riaritime.
The facts in the case- are ,set forth by Mr. Chief Justice
Taney, in delivering the opinion of the court, to which the
reader is referred.:
The District Court decreed that Rae should recover $ 2,500
from Cutler, which decree was affirmed in the Circuit Court.
It was submitted upon' printed arguments in this court by
Mr. Loring, for the libellant below, and Mr. Fletcherand Mr.
CUrtis; for the respondent and appellant.
The Reporter would.he gratified if he could insert the whole
of these.arguments, but want of room 'forbids it.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding in admiralty, and the point first to be
considered is. the question -6f jurisdiction.
I,
The appellee filed a libel in personam against the appellant,
in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, 'setting forth that he was the owner of the
bark. Zamora, which sailed from New Orleans for Boston, on
the 6th of November', 1845, with an assorted" cargo, a- part of
which consisted of 154 bWles of cotton, consigned to the appellant.; that she was overtaken by-a storm in'. Massachusetts
Bay, and was run -on- shore by the captain, in order to save
the lives of those on board, and for the preservation of the cargo,
which, together with the vessel, were in imminent danger of
being totally lost ; that by'this voluntary stranding, the vessel
was totally lost, but the cotton was saved ; and that the appellant had- saved the-value 'of it, to wit, $ 5,400; and that the
appellee .is entitled to contribution from the owners of the
,cargo and the appellant, to indemnify him -for the loss of his
vessel.
The appellant answered, admitting, the ownership of the
vessel as alleged in the libel; that she was wrecked in-Massa,chusetts Bay, and that the cotton had come to his hands in a
daiiiaged state ; .but denies that the appellee is entitled to the
general average he claims, and insists that he is fiot liable to
contribute on account of the cotton, to indemnify the owner
for the ioss of his bark.
. Upon this libel and answer-,- the parties proceeded -to take
testimony to show the circumstances under which the vessel
had -been stranded; and upon the hearing, a decree was pa~sed
ii-the District Court in favor of the appellee for $ 2,500, which
was affirmed in the Circuit Cburt, and from which last-mention~t decree the-present appeal to this court was'taken.

JANUARY- TERM, 1849.

781

Cutler v. Rae.

Upon the face of the proceedings, therefore, the question
arises whether the District Couri had jurisdiction, as a court of
admiralty, to try the matter in dispute. And it is unnecessary
to state more fully the pledings and testimony until this question is disposed of.
It is true, the counsel for the appellant has waived all objections on that score.' Bat the consent of parties cannot give
jurisdiction to the courts of the United States, in cases where
it has not been conferred by the Constitution and laws.' And
if the proceedings show a case which the District Court was
not authorized to try, it is the duty of this court to take notice
of the want. of jurisdiction, without waiting.foi:an objection
.from either party.
The court of admiralty undoubtedly:has jurisdiction in cases
where the vessel or cargo is subject to a lien created by.the
maritime- law, And where the lien is attached to the vessel or
cargo, it will, until ,itis discharged, adhere to the property in
the hands of third-persons, and will follow the proceeds, in certain cases, in the hmds of asignees. , And in such cases, the
lien may"be enforced in- a court ofadmiralty, by a proceeding
inp.ersonam,-against the party who holds the property or proceeds. This doctrine was recognized in this court in the case
of Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Pet. 675. In that case, the -holders of
the proceeds of.a ship which had been condemned in a Spanish
tribunal, and the value of the vessel afterwards paid to the
owners by the Spanish governiment,'were held liable for seaman's wages, in a proceeding.in personaM, although they held
them as assignees of the: owners in payment of a bona fide preexisting debt. And in deciding that case, the court said, that,
in cases of prize, bottomry,.and salvage,' as well as seaman's
wages, the party entitled to the lien may proceed in admiralty
iny ersonam against the party holding the proceeds of-property
to which the lien had, attached.
But in the cases mentioned by the court, the maritime law.
attaches an absolute and unconditional lien upon .the property.
The possession is not necessary to its validity. Indeed, in cases
of seaman's wages and bottomry, the party entitled to the lien
never has possession; and the same is most commonly the case,.
where salvage serivices are-rendered.
But it is otherwise, in general average.' The party entitled
to contribution has no absolute and unconditional. lien upon
the goods liable to -contribute. The captain has a right to
retain them until the general average with which they are
charged has been paid or secured. And as he may do this
for the security of the party entitled, he must be regarded as
his agent'in this respect, and exercising his rights. This right

732

SUPREME COU-RT
Cutler v. Rae.

of retainer, therefore, is a qualified lien, to which the party is
entitled -by-.the maritime law. But it depends on the posses- sion-of the goods by the mastei or ship-owner, and ceases when
they are delivered to the owner or consignee. It does not follow them into their hands, nor adhere to the proceeds. :This'
is the doctrine not only in England, but on the Continent.also. It is unnecessary to. refer to the various authorities on this
point, as-the principal ones are collected in Abbott on Shipping, 507, (margin,) Perkins's edition, and 3 Kent's Com.-244.
*In the case before us, the goods, with the bill of lading, were
delivered to the consignee, and not to the owner. We do not,
however, propose to inquire, whether, upon the facts stated in
the libel, the consignee would be liable for the contribution in
any form, but whether a court of admiralty can try the question. And treating the case as if the consignee stood in the
place of the owner, and was liable to the same extent, we think
it was not within the jurisdicticn of the court of admiralty.
The owner is liable, because, !t the time he receives the goods,
they are bound to share in the loss of other property by which
they have been saved.; and he is not entitled to dempnd them
until the contribution has been paid. And as this lien upon
his goods is discharged by the delivery, the law implies a promise that he will pay it. But it is not implied by the man-:
time law which gave the lien. It is implied upon the "principles of the common law courts, upon the ground that in equity
and good conscieice he is bound to pay the money, and is
therefore presumed to have.made "the.promise when he received
the goods. Indeed this caseseems, in its principles, to be
nothing more than the'common law action for money had and
received, brought in a court of admiralty.
It is very much to be regretted, that the jurisdiction of the
court of adriiralty in this country is not more clearly defined.
It has been repeatedly decided in .this court, that its jurisdiction is not restricted to the subjects over which the English
courts of admiralty exercised jurisdiction at the time..our
Constitution was adopted. But there is no case, nor any- prin
ciple recognized by this 'court, that would justify us in-extending it to a subject like the one now before the court. Whether
the court of admiralty might hot have'-proceeded in rem
to enforce the maritime law before the goods were delivered,
isa question-which does not arise in this .case, and upon which,
therefore, we express no *opinion. But the case, as presented
in the record, we think, is not within the admiralty jurisdiction,'and the judgment must therefore.be reversed, and the
case remanded to the Circuit. CougA,. with directions .to dismiss'
the libel.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

733

Clutler v. Rae.

Mr. Justice WAYNE.
I.regret that this case has been sent to this court upon the
printed arguments of the counsel in the court below, and still
more regret that .this court has decided ai important constitiftional question of admiralty jurisdiction, without-.eitheroral or printed argnment.
It isthe first time in this court. that such a result whas happened; and it was a sufficient reason, in my mind, to iestrain
this court from action, until after the point had .heen argued.
As I gather the facts of the case from the record, the questioni
of jurisdiction was not argued- either in the District or Circuit
Court ; "though, in makipg up the record for this court' the point
was suggestbd by the counsel for the respondents. It is a
curious incident in the history of our jurisprudence; that a constitutional point should have been ruled here, which had neither
been argued at the bar in this court, nor elsewhere; and I think
it. Will be. thought so much so, that it will not occur- againp.
Such a silent and uncontested judicial disposition of a question
arising ,uder the Constitution is at variance with the interest
hitherto -shown by our' courts, and bIy'the public, in such
matters, and does not partake of that watchful and patient inquiry concerning constitutional powers, which has been so
much the characteristic of the American mind, when either bfthe departments of our government has been called upon to,
exercise them.
I think, too, that this decision shbuld not have been made at
this time ; for though, a full court was present in our consultation'
upon this case, one of the judges, Mr. Justice Catron, refdsed.
to deliberate with us upon it, stating as his reason for not doing,
so, that important points, constitutional and otherwise, were.
involved, and that the case was only before us upon printed,
arguments upon the latter. I think he did so with great pro-.
priety, and I agreewith him, that the rule of the court permit-ting 'cases to .be sent here upon printed arguments was not
meant to enibrace cases involving constitutional questions..
That it was not meant to do so, I infer from this being the
first case in which it has been done with the practical acquiescence of this court, and from our use,.in having hitherto avoided the decision of such questions, except upon oral argumeht
before a full court..
Mr. Justice Catron's withdrawal left eight of us to act upon.
-the case, and we were for some time equally divided upon this.
point of jurisdiction. It was ultimately cisposed of as it has.
been by a majority of the coirt, rather by our acquiescence im
what was thought to be English authorities against the -jurisdiction, than from a close and searching scrutiny into the practice'
62
vo6L. viz.

734

SUPREME COURT.
Cutler v. Rae.

and jurisdiction of courts of admiralty, and how far they were
comprehended within our constitutional extension of judicial
power to all cases of admiralty and maritime jdrisdiction.
Under such circumstances, with every inclination to carry out
without further inquiry the decisions of this court, and with
unfeigned respect for all of the judges who have made this de-,
cision, I hope I shall not be considefed as doing any thing at
variance'with either, if I shall hear argument upon this point of
.jurisdiction, should such a case occur before -me upon the circuit, or if I shall ask, should it ever arise here again, that we
may hear argument from counsel upon a point which we had
not an oppqrtunity to hear when it was decided.
But my objection to the ruling of the point is greater than
to the circumstances under which it has been made.
I think that the case is within our constitutional admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, and that it has been so decided by
this court.
An attempt has been made to take it out of the case of Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Peters, 675, by making a distinction, between
cases of absolute and unconditional maritime lien,,and such as
are now called qualified cases of lien, to which a party is entitled 1y the maritime law. And it is said, "in general average,
that the party entitled to contribution has no absolute and unconditional lien upon the goods liable to contribute; but
that the captain has a right to retain-them until the general average with which they are chargeable has been paid or secured."
Besides, not having been able to find, in the books and cases
which I have read, any such distinction, (now, I believe, for the
first time made,) I have always thought that a lien given by
the maritime law, of whatever kind it Tiay be, is on6 which
can be enforced in a maritime court, for the purpose of consuinmating, for the benefit of all concerned, the equity which
raised or created it. 'For instance, that if a master of a vessel
gets a lien upon the saved cargo, in a case of jettison, or voluntary stranding of his vessel, and he is in any way dispossesied
of any part of it, either by a freighter or other person, he
may bring a possessory action in a maritime court to regain it,
or a petitory libel, if the goods saved have got into the hands
of a third person, who claims a right of property in them
against the freighter. And further, that if the freighters, in a
case of jettison or voluntary stranding of a vessel, disagree, as
to what should be *theirrespective'contributions, and there is
no fixed rule for ascertaining it without suit in the country
where the said cargo may happen to be, either the captain
having the cargo in possession, or the freighters, or either-of
them, may go into a maritime court, to have it judicially

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

735

Cutler v. Rae.

determined. And that a party interested in such a lien may
file his libel in per onam, in a maritime court, against a
freighter for his contribution, if he has got possession of his
part of the saved cargo, and has removed it beyond the sovereignty in which the court is, so that it may not-be sequestrated or put'under arrest, to answer the court's decree; And
it matters not whether the freighter's possession of the saved
goods has been obtained by the delivery of it to him by the
master, or otherwise. Alien, or right given t6 the master "to
retain the goods, until the general average with which they
are chargeable has been paid or secured," as this court says
the master has, has nothing in it of the character of a personal
agency, which the master may throw off at his will; for
neither in its beginning nor in its continuance has it avoluntary
appointment; but it is a trust, which the maritime law casts
upon. him, from the necessity of the case, in virtue of his
official relation to the vessel and cargo, and to those who are the
owners of them. - It is a lien given to the captain by the maritime law, for the purposes of a high equity, produced by necessity; and it cinnot be taken from the jurisdiction of a maritime court by any act of a iiarty interested in it, short of
what that equity demands; though the parties interested may
themselves determine and receive from edch other what they
may think that equity gives to each of them.
And the foundation .6f this jurisdiction of a court of admiralty in such cases, both in rem and in personam; is not on.
account of the locality of the jettison or stranding, or that it
is a thing done at sea ;. but because. happening at sea, the peril
producing it makes new and involuntary relations between the
freighters where there were none 'before, and' for which the interests of commerce require a tribunal, into-which, by the law of
its creation, all the parties interested may be brought together
for settlement. Of course, in what I have :aid, I have had no
reference to the admiralty jurisdiction in England since the
fime of Charles II., but to that of the maritime courts upon
the Continent, and as the practice in them continues to be,
and also to what had been the ancient practice and jurisdiction
in England on admiralty, until the reign of James I., notwithstanding the statutes of 13 Richard II., ch. 5, 'and 15 Richard
II.; ch. 3; for we know historically, that, until the time of
James, the statutes of Richard operated. rather to restrain the
usurped jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty in England,
than to limit it, in what rightfully.belonged to its cognizance.
When, then, we are referred to Abbott on Shipping and to
Kent's Commentaries, and to the cases cited by them, in support of the conclusion 'to which this court has here come, con-

.736.,

SUPREM'E COURT.
Cutler v.. Rae.

cerning the want of jurisdiction, in an American court of admiralt. of a libel in personam. to enforce a right in a-maritime lien which cannot be enforced in rem, in consequepce of
the removal of the subject-matter of the lien beyond the reach
of the court's monition and attachment, it will be found, by
a perusal of Abbott and Kent upon General Average, and ihe
cases cited by those writers, that neither of them is discpssing
at all the jurisdiction of a court of admiralty, even in England; but thateach only states - and one from the other what are the remedies in England for the recovery of the'contributions of a general average. The language in Abbott is :"In case of dispute, the contribution may be recovered, either
by-a suit in equity only, or by, an action at law, instituted by
each individual entitled to recover, against each. party that
ought to pay for the-amount of his share." (ยง-14, p. 610.)
And it is admitted that the English jurisdiction in admiralty
was not meant by the framers of the Constitution, when the
judicial power was extended ."to all cases of admiralty and mari'time jurisdiction." The language 6f the court now is,-" It'
has been repeatedly decided in this court, that- its jurisdiction
is not restricted to the subjects of which the English courts of
admiralty exercised jurisdiction at the tinie our Constitution
was adoplted." We must, therefore, in all ca~es- whether or not
there has been an occasion in our courts for the exercise of
jurisdiction in a particular case, look to the maritime courts on
the Continent, and to works on admiralty jurisdiction, to determine whether -the case in hand is embraced by our constitutional provision.
Nor can I partake, 6f the regret just expressed, that the juris-.
diction of the court of.admiralty in this country is not more
defined.
I know at one time it was thought so, but subsequent investigations of it by our judges and 'jurists, i believe, have given
a very general impression to American lawyers, that the constitutional clause, "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," is as well and as definitely expressed, for the purpose meant, as.'it can be, and that it leaves nothing doubtful,
except, as to some cases of which the admiralty court in
England took jurisdiction, which had been there exclusively
within the cognizance of the courts of. common law, and
also-of other cases in the Continental maritime courts, which
did 'not relate to "things done upon -the sea, or to contracts,
-pleas, and quarrels which were not maritime." Among the latler is certainly not a case of general average, and,- except in
England, I believe, the jurisdiction of the maritime courts has
always embraced, both in rem and in personam, "all cases of

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Cutler v. Rae.

freight, dlarter-parties, mariners' wages, debts due to mateiialmen for the building and repairing of ships," and all accidents upon the sea, affecting the rights of those having any interest in the cargo of a vessel, or who are in any way connected
with her. I do not think that there-is any thing doubtful in
the terms used in the Constitution. "To all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," means all cases arising or happening on the s~a, growing out of war or commerce, and all
cases strictly of maritime contracts, - admiralty jurisdiction
meaning originally tho~e cases of which the admiral took cognizance in virtue of his oflice upon the sea, and maritime,
these also, with all others arising out of the perils or accidents
upon the sea; trespasses upon it of all kinds; contracts relating
to commerce in which a sea service was to be rendered; contracts for building and repairing of ships, and for money loaned
upon bottomry. , Now, it having been repeatedly ruled by this
court, that its admiralty jurisdiction was not limited: by what
was the jurisdiction in England when the Constitution was
adopted, the principal difficulty in the way of interpreting the
words of the Constitution relating to it has been overcome.
And if we will but rid ourselves of those doubts in respect to
what are oases for a maritime court caused by the limitation of
them in England, I do not think we shall ever be at a loss to
determine what cases are within the admiralty jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States; and I believe the whole of
them will be found to make no trespass upon, or interferende
with, the jurisdiction of the other courts of the United States;
or with those of the States, either as to the modes of proceedinr jik them, or as to the suits of which they have cognizance.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
On the question of jurisdiction, for want of which this cause has been dismissed, I am not satisfied either way, and therefore
give no opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on, the transcript of "the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that neither the
said Circuit Court, nor the District Court from which -this case
was removed to the said Circuit Court, had jurisdiction of this
cause, and that consequently this court has not jurisdiction bu
for the purpose of reversing the deoree of the said Circuit Court.,
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court, entertaining jurisdic62 *

738

SUPREME COURT.
Smith v. Hunter et al.

tion in this cause, be, and the same is .hereby, reversed for the
want of jurisdiction in that 6ourt-; and that this appeal be, and
the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said'Cirzuit Court, with directions to proceed therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

HEZEKIAH SMITH, PLAINTIFF IN ERRoij, v. WILLIAM HUNTER, TREASuRER OF BUTLER COUNTY,, JAMES B. CAMERON, AUDITOR OF BUTL.ER
COUNTY, AND THE PRESIDENT
-

AND TRUsTEES

OF THE MIAMI UNI-

VERSITY.

Where a complainant alleged that a school tax, which wag l6vied upon his land, was
contrary to the spirit and meaning of a law of the State of Ohio which exempted
his property from all State taxes, and conflicted also with the terms and conditions of the leases by which he held his land, and the State court dismissed the bill,
this decision of the 8tate court cannot be reviewed by this court by a writ of error
issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act. "
The rules which regulate cases brought up to this court under that section again examined and affirmed.

Tilis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Ohio,
by a, writ of error issued under the twenty-ffth section of the
Judiciary Act.
The facts were these: By the fourth section of the act of Congress of the 3d of March,
1803, to enable the State of Ohio to form a State constitution,
(2 Statutes at Large, 226,) a township of land, to be laid off in
the Cincinnati land district, was- granted to the State of Ohio
for the purpose of establishing an .academy.
On the 17th of February, 1809, the legislature of the State
of Ohio passed an act: entitled "An act to establish the Miami
Uiniversity." (Pamphlet Acts of 1809, page. 184.)
That act incorporated the university, provided for its support,
government-, &c. Section tenth vested the above-mentioned
township in the corporation, for the use and support of the university, and authorized the corporation to divide the township
into lots, and lease them out for the term of ninety-nine years, renewable for ever, subject to a valuation every fifteen years. The
thirteenth section exempts thetownship from all State taxes. It
reads in these words: -" That the lands appropriated and vested in the corporation, with the buildings which may be erected
thereQn for the accommodation of the president, professors,. and
other officers, students, and servants of the university, and any
buildings appertaining thereto, and also the dwelling-house and
other buildings which may be built and erected on the lands,

