812

SUPREME COURT.
Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al.

of the person having the copyright is forfeited, in addition to
the penalty -of fifty cents on each sheet in his possession.
The declaration seems not to have been drawn with the view
of enforcing any other penalty than that which is imposed for
found in the possession of the defendant.
sheet
each
The
judgment
of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United -States for the
Northern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be,and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Courtr with directions to award a venire facias de
n0V0.

JONATHAN W. NESIITH AID THOMAS NESaITH, COMXPLAINANTS, V.
THOMAs C. SHELDON, HORACE H COISTOcK, DAVID FRENCH, WILLIAM E. PETERS, JAMIES FORTON, ATTA E. MATHER, HENRY B.
HOLBROOK, SAIUEL P. MEAD, FRANCIS E. ELDRED, PHEBE ANN
DEAN , CULLEN BROWN, AND CHARLES H. STEWART, RESPONDENTS.
The legislature of Michigan passed an act on the 15th March, 1837, entitled "An
act to organize and regulate banking associations,"' and on the 30th of December, 1837, an act to amend the former act. By the first, any persons were allowed
to form associations for the purposes of banking upon'the terms specified in the
law; and by the second, the stockholders were made liable, in their individual
character, under certain circumstances, for the debts of the association. -,
The associations formed under these acts are corporations within the meaning of the
constitution of Michigan, and the actb are unconstitutional and void.
The second §ection of the twelfth article of the constitution forbidding the legislature from "psssing any act of incorporation unless with the assent of at least two
thirds of each house," the judgment of the legislature is required to be exercised
upon the propriety of creating each particular corporation, and two thirds of each
house must sanction and approve each individual charter.
The Supreme Court of the State of fichigan has so construed its constitution, and it
is the established doctrine of this court, that it will adopt and follow the decisilns
of t&.e State courts in the construction of their own statutes where that construction has been settled by the decision of their highest judicial tribunal.

THis case was formerly before this court, on a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court for
the District of Michigan. Its facts and the reasons for its dismissal will be found in 6 Howard, 41.
It now came up upon the following certificate of division in
opinion.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

813

Nesmith et al. v.- Sheldon et al.

"This case having been remanded by the Supreme Court1 on
the ground that it had not been properly certified on certain
points under the act of Congress, and the cause being brought
before the court for their consideration and decision, the opinions
of the judges are opposed on the following point: "Whether the banking associations organized under the act
of the legislature of the State of Michigan entitled IAn act to
organize and regulate banking associations,' approved March
15th, 1837, and the amended act entitled IAn act to amend an
act entitled "An act to regulate banking associations and for
other purposes," ' approved December 30th, 1837, were or were
not corporations or bodies corporate, within the meaning. of the
constitution of the State of Michigan."
Article fourth, section first, of the constitution of the State
The legislative power shall be
of Michigan is as follows :-"
vested in a Senate and Hous6 of Representatives."
Section second of article twelfth of said constitution is as
follows:- " The legislature shall pass no act of -incorporation,
unless with the assent of at least two thirss of each house."
The first act referred to in the question upon which thejudges decided, namely, that of March 15th, 1837, authorized
any persons to form associations for the purpose of banking
upon the terms specified in the law. It was passed by a vote
of two thirds of each branch of the legislature..
The second act referred to provided as follows: -That,
"for all debts of such banking association, the directors thereof, if such association shall become insolvent, in the first place
shall be liable in their individual cApacity to the full amount
which such insolvent association may be indebted; and
each other stockholder shall thereafter be also liable in like
manner, in proportion to his or her amount of stock, for the
payment of the full amount of the debts of such insolvent association." The bill filed by the Nesmiths claimed to hold the defendants responsible, as stockholders, for the debts due bv the Detroit City Bank.
The bill was demurred to, and, upon the hearing, the division between the judges occurred as above mentioned, and was
certified to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Seaman, for the complainants, and
Mr. Romeq2i, for the defendants.
Mr. Seaman, in noticing the argument of the binding antthority -of the decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan,
said: It is insisted by. the defendants' counsel, that the case of

814

SUPREME COURT.
Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al.

Green v. Graves is a judicial -exposition, by the Supreme
Court, of the constitution of the State, and of the general
banking acts passed by the State legislature, and comes within
the principles established by this court in the case of Green v.
Neal, reported in 6 Peters, 291. The point there decided is,
that "a fixed and received construction of a statute of a State
-by its own courts makes a part of the statute law," citing the
case of Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheaton, 361, and also a case in 7
Wheaton, 361, and several other cases. This rule is adopted on
account of the State statute forming a rule of property, and it
applies more particularly to real estate, as is stated in 2 Howard, 125, and 5 Cranch, 22. As stated in 6 Peters, 298, rights
are acquired under this rule, and it regulates all the transactions
which come within its scope; and on page 296, referring to the
case of Nassie v. Watts, 6 Cranch, 165, the court says, -- "A
great proportion of the landed property of the country depends
on adhering to them." The professed object of the rule is, to
prevent two rules of property, and particularly in relation to
in the State courts, and
real property, in the same State, -one
another in the national courts. This is undoubtedly desirable.
The principal reason on which the rule is founded appears to
be this, as referred to on pages 298 and 296 in 6 Peters,. citing .
the case of McKeen v. Delaney in, 5 Cranch, 22, that when the
State courts have given a construction to their. statutes, and
contracts, deeds, &c., have been made in pursuance of such construction, and rights have been thus acquired and have become
vested, those rights ought not to be divested and contracts invalidated by a different construction of the statute by the national courts. This is undoubtedly in accordance 'with the
principles of natural justice, and is sound reason as well as
sound law. The principle recognizes the decision of the State
court as forming "part of the statute," and thereby recognizes
the highest court of the State as part of the law-making power;
as Vested with the power of legislating and making laws,
that is, of engrafting upon the enactments of the legislature.
new clauses and sections, explanatory of the original statutes;
and that acts done, contracts made, and rights acquired under
these judicial enactments, called decisions, shall be equally
valid and sacred in the national as in the State courts. All this
seems to be correct; the legislative power Qf our courts seems
to'arise from the structure of our institutions; and so far as regards common law rights, it arises from the very nature of
th'ings. The only difficulty in the case arises from the fact,
that humhn reason is weak and feeble, short-sighted, cannot look
into futurity to see the ultimate effect of its own opinions, and
is extremely liable to be swayed by passion, prejudice, and in-

JANUARY TERM,

1849.

815

Nesmith et aL v. Sheldon et al.

terest; and in attempting to engraft upon the statute explanatory clauses and sections, judges often materially change the
purport, nature, and effect 3f it. If judges were omniscient in
wisdom, .pure in morals, free from passion and prejudice, and
unerring in judgment, this difficulty would not exist. But let
us suppose the State courts do, in effect, materially change the
statute in constructing it, as seems to have been suspected and
intimated by this court in the case of McKeen v. Delaney, 5
Oranch, 22, and rights are acquired under and on the faith of
such wrong judicial expositions; such rights ought to be protected, and for that purpose the wrong judicial construction
ought to be regarded as an alteration, as an amendment to the
statute, and should be so treated, so far as respects all rights accruing under it, by courts of justice, both State and national.
The question, then, resolves itself into this,- Should these
judicial alterations and amendments of the statute have a retrospective, or only a prospective effect? If they are to have only
a prospective effect, their influence may be in the highest degree salutary; but if a retrospective effect and application are to
be given to them, the consequences will be in many cases very
pernicious. The second question is,- Will the judges of this
,court presume that the State courts are infallible, and their
decisions an unerring exposition of the State statute, and shut
their eyes entirely to the terms and provisions of the statute,
and refuse to inquire whether the decision of a State court is a
fair explanatory law, or should be regarded in the light of a
naterial amendment and change of the original statute. If
your honors should look into the statute as well as into the decision, and find the decision equivalent to an amendment of the
statute, then the amendment should not have a retrospective
effect; and if the State courts give it a retrospective effect, and
thereby'wrong, injure, and'defraud their own citizens, who are
obliged to sue in those courti, it is no reason why the national
courts, which were created to protect the rights of citiiens of
othei State,-should allow their suitors to be wronged and deyour
The next question is, -If
frauded in like manner.
honors allow the State courts, not only to'assume law-making
powers, but to set the legislature of the State at defiance, disregard their statutes, and engraft upon such statutes as many lterations and amendments as they think fit and proper, will
your honors allow them to play the same pranks with the State
constitutions also, and engraft as many of their dogmas and as
many alterations and amendments upon these fundamental laws
of the people as they see fit ?
Mr. Seaman then proceeded with his argument at great
length.

816

SUPREME COURT.
Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al.

Mr. Romeyn, after stating the case, said: This question has been submitted to the Supreme Court of
the State of Michigan, thb highest judicial tribunal in the State.
The report of the decision of that court is found in the case of
Green, Receiver of the Bank of Niles, v. Graves, in 1 Douglas's
(Michigan) Reports, 351. The concluding sentence of the decision (on p. 372) is as follows: - " The result of our deliberations, then, is, that so much of the act under which the Bank
of Niles was organized, as purports to confer corporate rights
upon the associations organized under its provisions, is unconstitutional and 'coid, and that the demurrer in this case must be
sustained."
The court consisted of four judges, three' of whom concurred
in that opinion,'and the fourth did not dissent, but declined to
participate in it, because he had not heard the argument.
" In the case of Brooks et al., plaintiffs in error, v. Warren
Hill, defendant in error, decided in -March, 1848, and not yet
reported, the Supreme Court unanimously reaffirmed the decision in the ca.e of Green v. Graves, and decided, further, that
the associations under the laws inquestion had'in no sense or
form a valid and legal existence. The adjudications of the
highest tribunal in the State-are thus consistent and settled.
I do not propose to reargue the questions involved in'these
decisions. The opinion of the Supreme Court discloses fully
the grounds of the judgment.
These. decisions affect the construction of the organic law of
the State in a most.important particular, and they involve interests of vast extent. It is difficult to imagine a case in
which a disagreement between the federal tribunals and the
State judicatories would be more alarming or" mischievous.
The bills of these associations are principally payable to bearer,
and transferable by delivery. Any holder in another State
would therefore have a right to sue in the Circuit Court. They
are not affected by the. statutes of limitations. Michigan Rev.
Stat. of 1838, p. 576, § 4. It. is plain that the consequences
would be most disastrous of a decision by this court, by virtue
of which a non-resident could, at any time, enforce the collection. of the issues of these banks from parties who are prevented
by the State decisions from collecting the assets of the bank,
or availing themselves of its collateral securities, or compelling
a contribution from others.
The obligation of this court to respect ,and follow the decisions of the State courts on the construction of their local laws
will no.t be disputed. Brown v. Van Braam, 3 Dall. 344; note
to same'case in 1 Pet. Cond. 159; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10
Wheat. 152; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 18; Groves et al. v.
Slaughter, 15 Pet. 497; Rowan v. Runnehs, 5 How. 139.

JANUARY. TERM, 1849.

817

Nesmith et al. v. Sheldon et al.

The last case contains the only limitations of the general
rule. These limitations do not touch this suit. In it there has
been no decision by this court.
There was a decision by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Michigan, in the caseof Falconer
and Higgins v. Campbell et al., reported in 2 McLean, 195.
It was a suit against the defendants as directors, and it was
followed by a bill in equity in the same court against the
stockholders, to enforce the collectibn of the judgment. This
case is still undisposed of, - the result, by stipulation, awaiting
the decision of the suit now before this court. Surely a single
decision in a single. circuit, and -that. virtually appealed from
and pending in this court, will not lead to 'a disregard of the
settled and deliberate adjudications of the highest tribunal*of -a
State upon a most important part of its own constitution.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion.of the court.
In this case, the Circuit Court for the District of Michigan
have certified that the following point arose in this case, upon
which the justices were opposed in opinion "Whether the banking associations organized under the act
of the legislature of the State of Michigan, entitled I An act to'
organize and regulate banking associations,' approved March
15th, 1837, and the amended act, entitled iAn act to amend an
act, entitled .PAn act to regulate banking associations and fBr"
other purposes,"' approved December 30th, 1837, were or
were not corporations or bodies corporate, within the meaning
of the constitution of the State of Michigan.'
This questioh, it appears, depends on the construction of the
constitution of Michigan, which declares that the legislature
shall pass no act of incorporation unless with the assent of at
least two thirds of each house.
The legislature chosen under this constitution, with the
assent of two thirds of each house, passed an, act authorizing
any persons resident in any county in the State to form associations for banking busipess, upon the terms and conditions
prescribed in the law; and declaring the stockholders in such
associations to be a body politic and corporate, by such name
as they should designate and assume, and conferring upon them
the usual powers of banking corporations.
Under this act of the legislature, an association of persons
was organized, under the name of the Detroit City Bank.
Another act was afterwards passed by the legislature, under
a power-reserved in the first, to amend its provisions. And this
act, under certain circumstances, made the stockholders liable
for the debts of the dasociation.
VOL. VIL

69

818

SUPREME COURT.
Nesmith et aL v. Sheldon et al.

The complainants in this case, having become creditors of
the asociation, filed their bill in equity, to charge the defendants as stockholders, under the provisions of the last-mentioned
act. And in the progress of this suit, the question arose which
'has been eertified as above mentioned.
If we regarded the question as an open one, a more particular statement of the provisions of these acts of the legislature
would be necessary, and also of the transactions which led
to this suit. And the point certified would require a very careful and deliberate examination by this court.
But it appears that the same question has arisen in the Statb
courts of Michigan, and been'decided -in its, Supreme Court,
upon full argument and consideration. We refer to the case of
Green v. Graves, decided in 1844, and reported in 1 Doug.
'Michigan Reports, 351. In that case the court held, that the
banking associations organized under the acts of the legislature
mentioned in the' certificate of division were corporations
within the meaning of the constitution of Michigan; and that
these acts were unconstitutional and void.
The point certified" is precisely the saihe. It relates altogether to the construction and legal effect of the constitution
of that .State, and of the two acts passed by its legislature.
Anti it is the established doctrine of this court, that it will
adopt and follow the decisions of the State courts in the construction of their own constitution and statutes, when that
construction has been settled by the decision of its highest
judicial 'tribunal. After the decision above mentioned, therefore, the question certified cannot be considered as open for
argument in this court. The cases of Groves v. Slaughter, 15
Peters, 449, and the two 'cases of Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How.
134, in relation to the. construction of the constitution' of
Mississippi, staid-on very different grounds, as will be seen by
a reference to the cases.
Upon this view of the subject, it will be certified, to the
Circuit Court, as the opinion of this court, that the banking
associations organized under the acts of the legislature mentioned in the certificate of division were corporations within
the meaning of the constitution of Michigan; and that these
acts of the legislature are unconstitutional and void.
Order.
This cause came.on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to

819

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Stearns v. Page.

the actof Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On cobsideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court, that the banking associations organized under
the act of the legislature of the State of Michigan, entitled "An
act to organize and regulate banking associations," approved
,March 15th, 1837, and the amended act entitled "An act to
regulate banking associations, and for other purposes," approved December 30th, 1837, were corporations or bodies corporate within the meaning of the constitution of the State of
Michigan, ;nd that these acts of the legislature are unconstitutional aid void; whereupon it is now here ordered anm decreed by this court, that it be so certified to the said 'Circuit
Court.

GEORGE

B.

STEARNS, ADmi1NISTRATOR

DE

PAGE,'APPELLANT, V. RUFUS

BONIS

R.

NON

OF JOHN

0.

PAGE,

The general rules stated 'which govern a court of equity in opening accounts an&
sustaining
which are
by the statute of limitations.
Great
cautionclaims
is exercised,
andbarred
the complainant
is holden to stringent rules of plead.
ing and evidence.
He must state in his bill, distinctly, the particular-act of fraud, misrepresentation,

or

concealment; must specify how, when, and in what manner it was perpetrated.
The
charges
proved.
o must be definite and reasonably certain; capable of proof and cearly
.
If a mistake is alleged, it must be stat with precision and made apparent, so that
the court may rectify it, with a feeling of certainty that they are not committing
another
and perhaps
greater
mistake.averinents as to the time when the fraud, misAnd
especially
must there
be distinct
take, concealment, or misrepresentation weo discovered, and what the-discovery
is,
that the court
clearly see whether, by the exercise of ordinary diligence,
therodiscovery
might may
not have been before made.
it THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting as a court of equity, for the District of Maine.
The bill, filed by Steams
koe as administrator de bonis
of
eohn
0. Page, proposed to 'open and review the accounts of the
estate of said Page, which were filed from 1811 to 1816 by
his widow and original administratrix, Sarah Page.

The record was vei voluminous. There was a bill, and an
amended bill, ard amendments to the amended bill, and an
amendment to
of the-pe
amendments to the amended bill.
Then there were answers to all these bills, and exceptions to
the answers, and motions for the production of books and
papers; and a great mass of testimony filed. After all, the
record was deemed incomplete, and a certiorariissued to bring
up more.

