272

SUPREME COURT.
Mace v. Wells.

proviso in the statutes of 1807 and of 1823, upon the reasoning of this court in the case of Jackson v. Clarke, 1 Peters, 628,
but chiefly upon the very pointed authority of the case of Galloway v.Finley we are of the opinion that the location and
survey of the- land in question in the name of James Galloway,
and the patent issued to him for the same, as mentioned in the.
certificate of division, are null and void, as being made and
done in contravention of the proviso to the second section of
the act of Congress of the 1st of March, A. D. 1823, entitled,
"An act'extending the time for locating Virginia military landwarrants, and returning surveys thereon to the General Land
Office," and we do order this opinion to be certified to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
Order.
This-cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit, Court of the United States for the District
of Ohio, and on the point and question on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were
certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of
Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration -whereof,it is the-opinion of this
court, that the location and survey of the land in question in
the name of James Galloway, and the patent issued to him for
the same, as mentioned in the certificate of division, are null and
void, as being made and done in con ravention of the, proviso to
the secona section of the act of Congiess of the 1st of March,
A. D. 1823, entitled, "An act extending the time for locating
Virginia military land-warrants, and returning surveys thereon
to the General Land Office." Whereupon it is .now here ordered and -decreed by this court, that it be so certified 'to the
said Circuit Court.

TImOTHY L.

MACE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAEED WELLS.

By the fifth section of the United States Bankrupt Act (5 Stat. at Large, 444), the
surety upon a promissory note had a right to prove the demand against the maker,
who tecame a bankrupt, and by the fourth section the bankrupt was discharged
from all debts which were provable under the act.
Therefore, where the surety paid the note to the creditor, after the discharge of the
bankrupt, and brought suit gainst the bankrupt for the amount, he was not entitled to recover it.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of Vermont, by a writ of error issued
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

273

Mace v. Wells.

The following statement of facts was argued upon by the
counsel in the court where the cause was originally tried.
Orange County Court, December Term, 1844.
v. TIMOTHY L. MACE AND TRUSTEES.
Action of Assumysit for money paid.
The parties agree to the following facts in this case: - That
the plaintiff signed two notes with the -defendant, of the dates
and tenor following :JARED WELLS

-.

35.00.

Wells River, July 9, 1840.

"For value received, I promise to pay Hiram Tracy, or order, thirty-five dollars, in four months, with interest annually.
TIMOTHY L. MACE,
JARED WELLS." -

' 157.48.
Wells River, August 14,4840.
"For value received, we jointly and severally promise to pay
Hutchins & Buchanan, or order, one hundred and fifty-seven
-dollars and forty-eight cents, in one year, with interest annually.
TIMOTHY L. MACE,
JARED WELLS."

Said first note was paid by said Wells to said Tracy on the
12th day of July, A. D. 1841. Said note was given for the
sole and proper debt of said Mace, and Wells- signed only as
surety; and the whole was a mere matter of accommodation
on the part'of Wells.
Said second note was given also for the proper debt of said
Mace, and was his to pay. Wells was only surety for said
Mace, although the note was "jointly and severally," and had
no interest or part in the debt., Said note was paid by said
Wells onthe 6th day of March, A, D. 1844, being, 6.t that date,
the sum of one hundred and ninety-four dollars and eleven
cents. Said Wells has kept both said notes since they were so
taken up by him, and they are now in his custody.
That after their signing of said last note, and before the payment of the same, but subsequent to the l~ayment of the first
by said Wells, said Mace duly obtained a discharge of his debts
as a bankrupt, in ptirsuance of the provisions of the act of Congress passed August 19th, 1841, commonly called the "bankrupt law." Said Mace's certificate is dated March 22d, 1843,
a copy of which is annexed, and made a part of the case.
It is agreed the court shall give the same effect to said discharge aยง if the same were specially pleaded.
Now, if the court shall be of the opinionthat the plaintiff -is
entitled to recover on the foregoing facts judgment is to be ren-

274

SUPREME COURT.
Mace v. Wells

dered for him to rec6ver of the defendant the amount of said
notes, or either of them, as the court shall adjudge, and his
cost; if for both notes, the sum of $ 248.93 ; if for the small
note, $ 45.12; if for the large note, only $ 203.81; if for
neither', then defendant to recover his cost.
A. UNDERwOOD, Defendant's Attorney.
J. W. D. P Ax., PlaintifsAttorne.
At December term, 1844, on the foregoing case stated, the
court rendered judgment for the plaintiff to recover of the defendant $ 203.81 damages, and, his costs. The 'defendant excepted to the opinion, and.the case was carried to the Supreme
Court of Judicature, where the judgment of the court belor
was affirmed.
A writ of error, issued under the twenty-fifth section of "the
Judiciary Act, brought-the case up to this court.

Mr. Collamer, for the plaintiff in error.
As Wells, the plaintiff below, did not pay the last note until
after the bankruptcy, and as it did not, until paid by him, become a debt in his favor, the court held that it was not discharged by the previous bankruptcy of Mace, the defendant'
below. Mace claimed that, by a right construction, of the
United States statute of bankruptcy, he, by his discharge, was.
entitled to the privilege and exemption from this debt; and the
congtruction'of that. statute being thus drawn in question, and,
'the decision being againt this privilege and exemption, the.
'case comes clearly within the jurisdiction of this court, by virtue of the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act..
. The plaintiff in error insists, that a discharge .in bank-:
ruptcy released from all debts and other engagements which
,are provable under the act. (Bankrupt Law, sec. 4; 5-Statutes at Large; 444.) The claim of Wells at the time Mace
became bankrupt and was, discharged was a note' outstanding
in the hands of a creditor, overdue, signed by Wells as surety
for Mace; and even if it were regarded as to Wells a contingent claim, still it was provable under the act. Our statute is
much more getneral and extensive than the English statute on'
!his point. All those caseg particularly provided.for in sections
51, 52, 53, 54, '55 of the 6th Geo. '4, c. 16, are- included in
our statute generally by name, as debts due at a future day,
annuitants, bottomry and respondentia bonds, policies of insur
.ance, suretiei, indorsers, and bail. But it is insisted that the
remainder of our statute, as to contingent claims, is-much more
extensive and comprehensive than the remaining 56th section
of 'the English law. By the words, of that law, and by the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

275

Mace v. Wells.

decisions of their courts, no contingent claim can be proved
under the commission, unless it be at the time of the bankruptcy an existing debt, payable on a contingency; not such a claim
as was to become a debt on a contingency. (6 Geo. 4, c. 16,
ยง 56 ;'Law v. Burghart, 42 Com. Law Rep. 313.) Our statute
includes all "uncertain and contingent demands."
IL Even if our statute be construed as of the same extent
as the English; and no broader, still this was and would be a
provable claim. It was an existing debt actually due, and
might have been presented and proved- against Mace by the
creditor-; and whatever can be proved by the creditor may be
by the surety, and he cannot permit it to lay unpaid and unproved until after the discharge, and then by payment revive
it in his own favor. Jackson v. Magee, 3 Adol. & Ell. 47; 43
Coin. Law Rep. 625; Westcott v. Hodges, 6 Barn-& Ald. 12.
III. Indeed, the case is within the very words of 6ur statute.
It gives the power of proving claims to sureties. Now, who is
a surety? It is he who is holden for another. It cannot mean
him who has already actually paid a debt, for then he-has
ceased to be a surety, and- has become a creditor; and so. the
court below rekarded this defendant in error, for they declined
giving him judgment for the note -which he had, as surety, paid
before bankruptcy.
It would be an extraordinary construction of this statute,
which discharges the bankrupt from his creditors, and expressly
reserves the claim of the creditor against the joint debtor and
surety, to hold, that, when enforced against such surety, the
debt is re.vived against the bankrupt. Little, indeed, would its
relief bo to the great body of merchants and business men, on
most of whose. paper are other names than their own.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before the court by a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the State of Vermont, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Wells, as the surety of Mace, became bound in two joint and
several notes, both of which were due before the passage of the
bankrupt law, in August, 1841. In July, 1841, Wells paid one
of these notes. Mace was discharged, under the bankrupt law,
on the 22dc of March, 1843. In March, 1844, Wells paid the
other note, aid then sued Maceor the recovery of the money
on both notes. The facts being submitted to the county
court, judgment was entered for the plaintiff for the amount
of the note last paid; which judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State.
The fourth section of the bankrupt law provides that a "dis-

276

SUPREME COURT.
Bodley et al. v. Goodrich.

charge and certificate, when duly granted, shall in all courts
of justice be deemed a full and complete discharge of all debts,
contracts, and other engagements of,such bankrupt which are
provable under this act," &c. o
By the fifth section of the act, it is provided that "all creditors whose debts are not due and payable until a future day, all
annuitants, holders of bottomry and respondentia bonds, hold-'
ers of policies of insurance, sureties, indorsers," bail, or other
persons having uncertain or contingent demands against such
bankrupt, shall be permitted to come in and prove Such debts
or claims under this act, and shall have a right, when their
debts and claims become absolute, to have the same allowed
them," &c.
Wells, as surety, was within this section, and: might have
proved his demand against the bankrupt. He had not paid the
last note, but he was liable to pay it, as surety, and that gave
him a right to prove the claim under the., fifth section. And
the fourth section declares, that from all such demands the
bankrupt shall be -discharged. This is the *whole case. Ii
seems to be clear of doubt. The judgment of the State court
is reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of Vermont, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Supreme Court of Vermont in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Supreme
Court of Vermont, for further proceedings to be had therein irr
conformity to the opinion of this court.

WILLIAM S.

BoDLEY AND- THOMAs E. RoBBINs, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM

M.

GOODRICH.

The Commercial and Railroad Bank of Vicksburg assigned all its property to
trustees, reciting that !' the embarrassed situatioxi of the bank and the present inability of its debtors to meet their liabilities, and by consequence that the bank was
unable to pay its debt promptly, rendered it proper that a general assignment
should be made for the benefit of its creditors and completion of t'ne railroad";
it therefore assigned all its property, real, personal, and mixed, to trustees, with
authority to sell the effects assigned, to collect all debts due to the institution, to
complete the railroad, for which purpose they were authorized to borrow a sum
not exceeding $ 250,000, to allow claims against -the bank of a certain description,
and out of the proceeds collectedfirst to pay the principal and interest of the above

