Oct. ,1880.]

MoYF_

MoY__

v.

DEWEY.

v. DEwEY.

1. The right to sue for and subject to the payment of his debts, effects fraudulently transferred by a party who was subsequently adjudicated a bankrupt,
is vested alone in his assignees, and their failure to enforce it within the
time prescribed by the bankrupt law does not transfer that right to his
creditors.
2. A discharge in bankruptcy is personal to the party to whom it is granted.

ERROR

to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

J11r. Samuel Hand and Mr. Iatthew Hale for the plaintiffs
inerror.

IlMr. James B. Dewey, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MIrLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The complaint filed by the defendants in error in the Su
preme Court of the State is in the nature of a bill in chancery
against the plaintiffs in error and Clinton Eldredge. It charges
that the complainants severally recovered judgments in the
proper courts against said Eldredge, on which executions were
issued and returned nulla bona. It then charges, giving the
details of the transaction, that the defendants held certain
real estate, the title of which was conveyed to them by Eldredge, without consideration and with intent to defraud his
creditors. The defendants answer separately and deny the
fraud. They also attempt to protect themselves under the discharge of Eldredge in bankruptcy, and as the only question
cognizable in this court turns upon this part of the defence,
which is more fully set up in the answer of Betsey Moyer than
in that of Henry, so much of the answer as refers to this matter
is here given verbatim: " And the said defendant, upon her information and belief,
alleges that on or about the seventeenth day of August, 1868,
at Buffalo, in the State of New York, the United States District Court held in and for the Northern District of the State
of New York duly made an order and a decree discharging the
defendant Clinton Eldredge of and from all his debts, of all of
which proceedings in the said court in bankruptcy for such

MOYER V. DEWEY.

[Sup. Gt.

discharge the said plaintiffs and their said assignors, and each
of them, had due notice; that the pretended indebtedness, if
any such existed or ever did accrue, accrued prior to the filing
of the petition of the said Clinton Eldredge for his discharge
from such debts in the said United States District Court, and
prior to the granting of such discharge, and that the said indebtedness and the said several claims, if any such exist or ever
exited, were such as were provable against the estate of the
defendant Clinton Eldredge in the proceedings in which said
discharge was granted, and were not, nor was any part thereof,
created in consequence of any defalcation as a public officer, or
as an executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, or while
acting in any other fiduciary capacity, and he is, therefore,
discharged therefrom, and from all liability thereon, and the
paid plaintiffs are precluded and debarred from enforcing or
attempting to enforce the same."
It will be observed that nothing is here said of an assignee
in bankruptcy, nor of the right of the assignee, if one existed,
to the property conveyed by Eldredge to the defendants in
fraud of his creditors. The obvious purpose of this plea is to
show that Eldredge's debts to the plaintiffs were discharged,
and that they could not, therefore, maintain this suit on such
indebtedness. Nor does it appear in any part of the record
that the assignee's rights were considered by either the plaintiffs or the defendants, nor was he made a party to the suit.
The case was sent, under the practice of the New York
courts, to a referee, and on his report a judgment was rendered
in favor of the plaintiffs, which was affirmed in the Court of
Appeals. With the general question of fraud in the matter
this court can have nothing to do. It appears by the report of
the referee that the transaction was fraudulent as charged. It
also appears that the judgments against Eldredge set up as
the foundation of this suit, although founded on debts existing
prior to his discharge in bankruptcy, were confessed by him
subsequently thereto, and that, though a defendant in this suit,
he, by failing to answer, waives the benefit of the discharge.
Under these circumstances, we concur with the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, that so far as the discharge itself is concerned, its only effect is personal to him, and does not avail tr,

out. 1880.]

MOYER v. DEWEY.

release the defendants in this suit from liability for the fraud
committed by them.
But we have decided at this term, in Trimble v. Woodhead
(102 U. S. 647), in a case very similar in some of its aspects to
this, that the right to bring such an action as this - the right
to the property so fraudulently conveyed - is vested in the
assignee alone, and that his failure to sue within the two years
allowed by the bankrupt law does not transfer this right of
property or right of action to a creditor of the bankrupt.
If, therefore, in the present case it had been made to appear
by the record properly before the Court of Appeals that an
assignee had been appointed, and he had properly qualified and
accepted such appointment, we do not see how the plaintiffs
could have recovered judgment for the value of the property.
The Court of Appeals of New York take the ground, in their
opinion, distinctly, that neither the appointment of an assignee
in bankruptcy, nor the existence of any rights in such assignee,
nor any defence having reference to such rights, is set up in
the answer. And in this opinion we concur.
When the ease went to the referee the defendants offered
certified transcripts of the proceedings in the District Court,
which showed the appointment of the assignee, the assignment
to him made by the register, and the discharge of Eldredge.
The plaintiffs objected to the admission of these papers in evidence, on the ground that they were not set up in the answer,
either according to the statute or in pursuance of the commonlaw rule.
The referee, while he admitted the papers in evidence, did
not, among his finding of facts, which were thirty-four in number, find that the assignee had been appointed, or an act of
appointment made by the register. He did, however, find that
Eldredge bad been duly discharged of his debts. It is probable
that he received the transcript objected to as evidence of the
validity of Eldredge's discharge, but not as evidence of the
assignment, which was not set out in the pleading.
The question whether the assignment, and the rights of the
assignee under it, were so set up in the answer as to admit
the evidence of them, or whether, on the other hand, the
defendants relying, as they seem to have done, solely on the

MILES V. UNITED

[Sup. ot.

STATES.

principle that Eldredge's discharge inured to the benefit of
the defendants, can now avail themselves of the transcripts, is
one dependent very largely on the practice of the courts of the
State. The Court of Appeals rests its decision on the ground
that the pleading does not set out or rely on the assignment or
on the rights vested by it in the assignee, and it says very
juftly, that if any such issue had been made, the plaintiffs
might have had a sufficient reply, which they were not called
on to produce as the pleadings stand.
We concur with that court in holding that the existence of
an assignee, or of any right of such assignee to the property or
the claims asserted in this suit, is not raised by this record.
Judgment afflrmed.

MILES v. UNITED STATES.
1. On an indictment for bigamy, the first marriage may be proved by the admissions of the prisoner, and it is for the jury to determine whether what
he said was an admission that he was actually and legally married accoding to the laws of the country where the marriage was solemnized.
2. As long as the fact of his first marriage is contested, the second wife is an
incompetent witness. Where it has by other evidence been duly established
to the satisfaction of the court, she may be admitted to prove her marriage
with him.
. On the trial of such an indictment, the United States challenged a juror for
"actual bias." Three triers, appointed by the court conformably to the
law of Utah, where the indictment was found, tried the challenge, and
declared it to be true. Rield, that their decision being by that law final,
he was properly excluded from the panel.
4. Against the objection of the prisoner, jurors were interrogated by the United
States as to their belief that the practice of polygamy is in obedience to the
divine will and command. Hed, that the objection was properly overruled.
5. This court cannot re-examine questions of fact upon a writ of error.
6. In a criminal case, the evidence upon which the jury are justified in finding a
verdict of guilty must be sufficient to satisfy them of the prisoner's guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt. Held, that the instruction by the court of
original jurisdiction upon this point (infra, p. 309) furnishes him no just
ground of exception.

EPRor to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

