MITCHELL V. OVERMAN.

[Sup. CL.

that the questions arising upon this record have been once
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a suit
between the same parties touching the subject-matter now
in controversy. All this plainly appears by that decision,
the legal effect of which, the defendants in error should not
be permitted to escape by removing the case into the Circuit
Court.
Upon these grounds, and without expressing my own views
upon the propositions of law discussed in the opinion of the
court, I dissent from the judgment just'rendered.

MITCHELL V.

OVERMAN.

Where the complainant dies after the term at which the cause on its submission
for final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs was continued by an order of
curia advisare vult, the decree in his favor entered as of that term cannot be
impeached by the defendants upon the ground that it was rendered subsequently to his death.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Rufus King and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Stanley Matthews and Mr. William H1. Ramsey,/ for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Conrad Stutzman brought suit, July 26, 1866, against Robert Mitchell and others, in the District Court for the county
of Webster, a court of general jurisdiction, in the State of
Iowa. Two of the defendants, although duly served with process, failed to appear, and a decree pro confesso against them
was rendered by the court, at its October Term, 1868. As to
all the other parties, the plaintiff and the defendants being
I'resviit in person, or by counsel, "the cause" (as appears by

Oct. 1880.]

MITCHELL v. OVERMAN.

the recitals in the record) " was submitted upon the pleadinga
and proofs on file; and, after argument of counsel, the cause
was then finally submitted, and taken under advisement by
the court, the decree herein to be rendered as of the term of
said trial and submission." At the October Term, 1870, Mitchell "asked leave to amend his answer, which was granted,
at the May Term, 1871, upon terms." At the October Term,
1872, that "amendment was stricken from the files for noncompliance with such terms; " and thereupon the court, at
the last-named term, to wit, on Nov. 10, 1872, rendered a decree in favor of Stutzman against Mitchell for the sum of
$8,395.58, with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent
per annum, from Oct. 16, 1868, and for the costs. It was
further ordered that the decree be "entered now [then], as
of the sixteenth day of October, 1868, the last day of the
October Term of this court, 1868, and shall take effect as of
that date."
It appears that on the 10th of November, 1869, while the
case was held under advisement, Stutzman died intestate. No
suggestion of his death was entered of record, nor was the suit
revived in the name of his personal representative, to whom,
under the laws of Iowa, the right of action survived. Indeed,
letters of administration upon his estate were not issued until
Nov. 26, 1872.
At the time the decree was rendered, Mitchell and his attorney were ignorant of Stutzman's death, but the fact was
known to Stutzman's attorney of record, who drafted and procured the entry of the decree. It is, however, found by the
court below, to which this cause was submitted upon a written
stipulation, waiving a jury, that there was no fraud in obtaining the decree.
Upon the decree, Overman, administrator of Stutzman, on
the 15th of September, 1873, commenced this action against
Mitchell. A recovery is resisted on the ground that the decree is absolutely void, inasmuch as it was in fact rendered
after the death of Stutzman. Judgment was rendered against
litchell for the full amount of the decree. He sued out this
writ, and assigns for error that the facts found do not authorize
the judgment.

MITCHELL V. OVERMAN.

[Sup. t

"The common law was in force in Iowa during the whole
period from the commencement to the conclusion of the suit in
the State court, except as modified by sects. 3469, 3470, 3472,
8473, 3477, and 8478 of the Iowa Code of 1860, and by the act
of April 8, 1862. The latter act -of which, as well as of the
State code, we must take judicial notice - substitutes for one
of the sections of the code the following provision: " Actions.
either ex contractu or ex delicto, do not abate by the death,
marriage, or other disability of either party, nor by the transfer of any interest therein, if from the legal nature of the case
the cause of action can survive or continue. In such cases the
court may, on motion, allow the action to be continued by or
against his legal representative or successor in interest; but in
case of the death of the defendant, a notice shall be served
upon his representative, under the direction of the court."
Laws of Iowa, 1862, p. 229. These statutory provisions prescribe the manner in which actions may be revived, and the
time within which such revivor must take place. But it is
clear that they do not provide for a case like the one before us. The question here is, whether the State court was
wholly without jurisdiction to enter the decree against Mitchell as of, or make it take effect from, the last day of the
term at which the cause, during the lifetime of Stutzman,
was finally submitted for determination. We are not informed by any decision, to which our attention has been
called, that the Supreme Court of Iowa has passed upon it.
The cases cited from that court do not, in our opinion, meet
it in the exact form in which it is here presented. It must,
therefore, be determined by the rules of practice which obtain in courts of justice in virtue of the inherent power they
possess.
The adjudged cases are very numerous in which have been
considered the circumstances under which courts may properly
enter a judgment or a decree as of a date anterior to that on
which it was in fact rendered. It is unnecessary to present an
analysis of them, some of which are cited in a note to this
opinion. We content ourselves with saying that the rule established by the general concurrence of the American and English courts is, that where the delay in rendering a judgment or 'i

Oct. 1880.]

MITCHELL V. OVERRAN.

decree arises from the act of the court, that is, where the delay
has been caused either for its convenience, or by the multiplicity or press of business, either the intricacy of the questions involved, or of any other cause not attributable to the
lacies of the parties, the judgment or the decree may be
entered retrospectively, as of a time when it should or might
have been entered up. In such cases, upon the maxim aetus
,'urip neie ,eni gravablit,- which has been well said to be
founded in right and good sense, and to afford a safe and certain guide for the administration of justice,- it is the duty of
the court to see that the parties shall not suffer by the delay.
A nunclro tw order should be granted or refused, as justice
may require in view of the circumstances of the particular
case. These principles control the present case. Stutzman
was alive when it was argued and submitted. He was entitled at that time, or at the term of submission, to claim its
final disposition. A decree was not then entered because
the case, after argument, was taken under advisement. The
delay was altogether the act of the court. Its duty was to
order a decree nnwe pro tune, so as to avoid entering an erroneous decree.
We attach no consequence to the fact that, while the causb
was under advisement, Mitchell asked leave to amend his
answer, which was granted upon terms. As they were not
complied with, his amendment was stricken from the files.
The question must, therefore, be determined as if no amendment had been attempted.
It is scarcely necessary that we should extend this opinion
by any comments upon the numerous cases cited in the printed
argument of appellant's counsel. In many of them, although
the death occurred after the submission of the cause or after
verdict, the judgment was, in fact, entered as of a time subsequent to the death. They manifestly have no bearing on this
case, where the decree was entered as of a time when the
party was alive, and to take effect from the date when it would
have been entered but for the act of the court, induced by
causes beyond the control of the parties.
It seems to us to be entirely clear that the State court had
the power, upon well-6uttled rules of practice, both in courts of
"oil

Xl

5

STOUT v. LYE.

[Sup. Ct.

law and of equity, to enter the decree as of the term when, in
the lifetime of Stutzman, the cause, after argument, was finally
submitted for decision.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE.- Bank of United States v. Weisiger, 2 Pet. 481; Clay v. Smith, 3 id. 411;
Grisuold v. Hill, I Paine, 484; Gray v. Brignardello, 1 Wall. 627; Campbell v.
Misier, 4 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 342; Vrom v. Ditmas, 5 Paige (N. Y.), 628; Wced
v. Keyes, 6 id. 418, 478; Perry v. Wilson, 7 Alass. 393 ; Currierv. Lowdl, 16 Pick.
(Mass.) 170; Slickney v. Davis, 17 id. 169; Springfidd v. Wooster, 2 Cush. (Mlass.)
62; H1ess v. Cole, 3 Zabr. (N. J.) 116; Cumber v. Wane, 1 Stra. 426; Astley v. Reynolds, 2 id. 915; To!er v. Duke of Beaufort, 1 Burr. 746; Trelawney v. Bishop of
Winchester, 2 id. 219; Davies v. Davies, 9 Ves. Jr. 461; Bdsham v. Percival,
8 Hare, 157; 2 Coop. 176; Green v. Cobden, 4 Scott, 486; Lawrence v. Hodgson,
1 Y. & J. 368; Freeman v. Tranah, 12 C. B. 406; Collinson v. Lister, 1 Jurist, xe.a.
835; 20 Beav. 355; Blaisdell v. Harris, 52 N. H. 191; 2 Daniell, Ch. Pr. (5th
Am. ed.) pp. 1017, 1018; Tidd's Pract. (4th ed. with American notes) 952;
1 Barb. Ch. Pr. (2d rev. ed.) 341; Freeman, Judgments, sect. 57, and other
quthorities cited by those authors.

STOUT v. LYE.
Pending proceedings in a State court by a national bank, to foreclose a mortgage executed to it by A. and duly recorded, B., his creditor, recovered
against him in the Circuit Court of the United States a judgment which, by
the lex lod, was a lien on the equity of redemption. B. then filed his bill in
the latter court against A. and the bank to set aside the mortgage as illegal,
or to have certain alleged payments of usurious interest applied to reduce the
debt. Shortly thereafter, the State court rendered a decree of foreclosure
and sale, which the bank set up in its answer to the bill. The Circuit Court
thereupon dismissed the bill. Held, 1. That the State court having first acquired jurisdiction of the subject-matter, its decree was a bar to the further
prosecution of the suit against A. and the bank. 2. That A. represented all
the parties who, pending the foreclosure proceedings, acquired through him
an interest in or a charge on the mortgaged land, and that B., although not a
party to them, is bound by the decree therein rendered.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John Hutchins for the appellants.
Mr. John E. Richie, contra.

