LAND CO. v. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

in the law of evidence in the Territory of Utah as to mahe
both wives witnesses on indictments for bigamy.
For the error indicated the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Utah must be reversed and the cause remanded to that court, to be by it remanded to the District
Court, with directions to set aside the verdict and judgment
and award a venirefacias de novo.
o ordered.

LAN'D COmPA.Y v. SAUNDES.
1. The general rule that monuments control courses and distances reasserted M
reference to lands situated in New Hampshire.
2. A well-known tract of land, embraced in an old patent, and long referred to
by name in the laws of the State, containing settlements which had been
subject to the census and tax laws, if called for in a subsequent grant made
by the State, as the boundary of a new grant, is such a monument as
will draw to it the limits of such subsequent grant, although its exterior
lines were never actually run and located on the ground; and the State
will be precluded from injecting a still later grant between the two prior
ones.
S. The premises in a grant were described as beginning at a fixed point, and
thence "running east seven miles and one hundred and seventeen rods to
Hart's Location; thence southerly by the westerly boundary of said location to a point so far south that a line drawn thence due south shall strike
the northwest corner of the town of Burton; thence south to said northwest corner of Burton; thence westerly," &c., to the beginning. Held,
1. That if, when the grant was made, there was a tract well known a3
Hart's Location, lying easterly and in the vicinity of the land granted,
and if it had a westerly boundary to which the granted tract could, by any
reasonable possibility, extend, then Hart's Location was a monument which
controlled the courses and distances of the survey; and this, though the
western boundary of Hart's location had never been actually surveyed on
the ground; and though the northwest corner of Burton did not lie due
south from any part of said western boundary. 2. That, in such case, the
connection between the two monuments -the western boundary of Hart'd
Location and the northwest corner of Burton- would be the shortest line
between them, though the course should be different from that named in
the grant.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of New Hampshire.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court

Oct. 1880.]

LAND CO. v. SAUNDERS.

31r. William L. Putnam and Mr. Osajan Ray for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Josiah G. Abbott, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of entry brought by the Bartlett Land and
Lumber Company, against Saunders, to recover possession of
a certain tract of land in Grafton County, New Hampshire,
described as follows:"Beginning at the northwest corner of the town of Albany, and
thence running north about 3 degrees east, 3 miles and 65 rods, to
a spruce tree marked; and from thence north about 6 degrees
east, 4 miles and 95 rods, to a fir tree marked; and from thence
south about 87 degrees east, to the westerly line of Hart's Location, and to the easterly line of Grafton County, as established by
the act approved July 3, 1875, entitled ' An Act establishing the
east line of Grafton County;' and from thence along the east line
of Grafton County to the bound begun at, and containing 8,000
acres of land, more or less."
The defendant filed a plea, defending his right in, and denying disseisin of, all the land described in the plaintiff's writ
which is included in the following-described tract, viz.: "Beginning at the northwest corner of the town of Albany, formerly called Burton, and thence running north about three degrees
east, three miles and sixty-five rods, to a spruce tree marked ; and
from thence north about six degrees east, four miles and ninety-five
rods, to a fir tree marked; and from thence south about eighty-seven
and one-half degrees east, to the westerly line of Hart's Location;
thence southerly by the westerly line of Hart's Location to the
point in said westerly line nearest to the northwest corner of said
Albany; thence in a straight line to the northwest corner of said
Albany."
He disclaimed title to the remainder of the land claimed in
the demandant's writ.
Upon these issues the cause came on to be tried, and after
the demandant's evidence was adduced, the court instructed
the jury that, upon the case made thereby, the demandant was
not entitled to recover. A verdict was given for the defendant, and judgment rendered accordingly. The present writ of
error is brought to reverse this judgment.

LAND CO. V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct

The specific points raised upon the trial, upon which the
court was called upon to pass, are presented by a bill of exceptions, which exhibits the evidence in detail. Such parts of this
evidence as may be necessary to understand the matters of law
raised by the writ of error will be adverted to.
The demandant, on the trial, produced and deraigned title
under a quitclaim deed from James Willey, land commissioner
3f .the State of New Hampshire, to Alpheus Bean and others,
dated Nov. 26, 1831, made by authority of a resolve of the
legislature, which included the lands claimed in the writ.
The demandant also produced a prior deed, under which the
defendant claimed the land described in his plea, being a deed
from Abner R. Kelly, treasurer of the State of New Hampshire, to Jasper Elkins and others, dated Aug. 31, 1830, and
made by authority of a resolve of the legislature, which deed
purported to convey the following-described tract in the county
of Grafton, New Hampshire, to wit: "Beginning at the northeast corner of the town of Lincoln, and
rnnning east seven miles and one hundred and seventeen rods to
Hart's Location; thence southerly by the westerly boundary of said
location to a point so far south that a line drawn thence due south
shall strike the northwest corner of the town of Burton; thence
south to said northwest corner of Burton; thence westerly along
the northern line of Waterville to the eastern boundary of Hatch
and Cheever's grant; thence northerly and westerly by said grant
to the east line of Thornton; thence by said line of Thornton
northerly to the line of Lincoln, and along this line to the point
first mentioned."
The principal question in the cause was whether the premises thus granted to Elkins and others by the last-named deed
embraced the land described in the defendant's plea; if they
did, as was held by the judge at the trial, the defendant's was
the elder title to the land in dispute, and the title of the demandant failed, and there is no error in the instructions as to
the documentary title.
The beginning corner of the premises granted to Elkins and
others was conceded to be a well-known point, and the general
position of the first line of survey, which is described as "run.ing east 7 miles and 117 rods to Hart's Location," was not dis.

Oct. 1880.]

LAND

CO. V. SAUNDERS.

puted; nor was the position of the northwest cornei of the
town of Burton (now Albany) disputed, it being a common
point to which both parties referred; nor were the lines of the
Elkins survey from the northwest corner of Burton, "westerly
along the northerly line of Waterville, &c., to the point first
inentioned," brought in question. The only point in dispute
was the eastern boundary of the Elkins tract; the defendant
contending that, by virtue of the deed of 1830, it extended
eastwardly to Hart's Location, covering the disputed territory;
and the demandant contending that it did not extend further
to the eastward than the northwest corner of Burton (or Albany), and a line drawn north from that point.
The language of the grant is, "east 7 miles and 117 rods to
Ta't's Location; then southerly by the westerly boundary of said
loeatiwi to a point so far south that a line drawn thence due
south shall strike the northwest corner of the town of Burton; thence," &c. Now, if, when the grant was made, there
was a tract known as Hart's Location lying easterly and in the
vicinity of the land granted, and if it had a westerly boundary to which the granted tract could by any reasonable possibility extend, no more apt language for this purpose could have
been adopted. It would be a monument which would control
courses and distances. If more or less distant from the point
of beginning than seven miles and one hundred and seventeen
rods, still it would control the survey. If a line drawn due
south from any point of its western boundary would not strike
the northwest corner of Burton, then they must be connected
by a line not running due south. The line of shortest distance
between said boundary and said northwest corner would be
the proper one, and this is the one that was adopted. Hart's
Location is called for, and to that location we are bound to go.
The evidence was overwhelming and uncontradicted to show
the existence and notoriety of Hart's Location. It is a large
tract of land lying on both sides of the Saco River, directly to
the eastward of the Elkins tract. On the 27th of April, 1772,
this tract was granted by Governor Wentworth, in the name of
the king, to one Thomas Chadbourne. The plaintiff produced
in evidence a copy of that grant, having a plat or survey of the
tract annexed to it. The premises granted are described as
follows :-

LAND CO. V. SAUNDERS.

[Sup.

t

"Beginning at a birch tree being the southwesterly corner bounds
of a tract of land granted to Mr. Vere Royse; from thence running
north fbnr hundred and seventy rods, from thence extending westerly the same breadth of four hundred and seventy rods, the distance of two hundred and eighty-five rods, from thence running
northwesterly six hundred rods, from thence running nearly a north
course thirteen hundred rods until it meets the notch or narrowest
passage leading through the White Mountains lying upon Saco
River."
The plat, or survey, annexed to the grant shows the Saco
River running through it. It follows the river on both sides
from the beginning of the survey up to the mountains. It is
conceded that the beginning corner is well known; and the
general location of the tract is undisputed. By the name of
Hart's Location it has been well known for nearly a century
past. Its census has been published in the laws like that of a
regular township, and it seems to have been treated in some
sort as a quasi township. In the State census published with
the laws of 1815, and again in 1820, the population of Hart's
Location is put down as thirty-five for the year 1810, and at
sixty-five for 1820. In the acts for the apportionment of the
State tax among the several townships of the State, the pro rata
share of Hart's Location was fixed at eight cents on a thousand
dollars in 1816 ; at twelve cents in 1820 ; at ten cents in 1824 ;
and at eight cents in 1829. By an act approved Dec. 24, 1828,
it was resolved, "That Hart's Location, in the county of Coos,
be annexed and classed with the towns of Bartlett and Adams, in
said county, for the purpose of electing a representative to the
general court, until the legislature shall otherwise order." The
demandant's principal witness stated that it had been a political organization at one time, and sent a representative to the
general court.
But it was claimed by the demandant, and proof was offered
to show, that the western boundary of Hart's Location, being in
a wild and mountainous region, had never been located on the
ground in 1830, and could not be located from the description
contained in the grant, because it was too vague and uncertain
to admit of a fixed and definite survey. But the plat annexed
to the grant, and referred to by the grant for greater certainty,

Oct. iSSO.]

LAND CO. v. SAUNDERS.

did show a boundary line, laid down to a scale. If there was
no other evidence on the subject, this would be sufficient to
show that Hart's Location had a boundary, and a definite one,
whether it was ever actually run out on the ground or not. In
or about 1803, on occasion of a general perambulation of the
townships of the State, made in pursuance of an act of the
legislature, a survey of Hart's Location was made by one Merrill, by public authority, and deposited in the office of the seeretary of state. This was also produced in evidence on iF.-,
trial, and showed a well-defined map of the location, laid
down to a scale, - differing somewhat from the plat annexed
to the original grant, but not more than might be naturally
expected if the original was not used.
There can be no doubt, therefore, that when Hart's Location
was referred to in public acts and resolves, whether for the
:?rpose of taking the census, taxation, or political jurisdiction,
;t was referred to as a defined tract or portion of territory,
within the bounds of which the State claimed no proprietary
interest. In 1820, when the legislature, by a resolve, authorized, and by its treasurer made, to Elkins and his associates, a
grant of land to extend from the town of Lincoln on the west
to Hart's Location on the east, the exterior line extending
along "by the westerly boundary of said location," it is difficult to find any ground for uncertainty or ambiguity in the
grant, or to imagine how, after that, the State, or any persons
claiming under the State, could, with any show of reason, claim
that there was no such thing in being as a Hart's Location
having a western boundary; or that the Elkins grant did not
extend to and bound upon it. All rights of the State up to
and adjoining said location were as clearly disposed of as if the
two grants, that of Hart's Location and that to Elkins and
others, had been made in the same instrument, - granting to
one party, first, Hart's Location as described in Chadbourne's
patent, and then granting to Elkins and his associates all the
residue of the lands westward to the town of Lincoln between
designated side lines on the north and south.
The truth is, that Hart's Location itself was the monument
indicated, whatever might be the location of its western
boundary. The existence of the location as a territorial subvoL. xiii.

21

LAND CO. v. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

division of New Hampshire was as notorious and certain as the.
existence of any township in the State. It must of necessity
have had a boundary, whether that boundary had ever been
actually surveyed on the ground or not. The State owned all
the land lying westerly of it, -between it and the township of
Lincoln, - and this land had never been granted to any person.
It was wild, mountainous land of little value. The whole area,
eoual to the extent of a large township, and containing proba.
bOy seventy or eighty square miles, was in 1880 valued at only
$800. All this tract thus lying to the west of Hai t's Location
was granted to Elkins and his associates. They may have been
under an erroneous impression as to the true location of the
western boundary of Hart's Location, but, whatever it was,
and whenever found, that was to be the boundary of the grant.
It may be true, as stated by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in iTorse v. Rogers (118 Mass. 578, 578), that where a
boundary is inadvertently inserted or cannot be found, or an
adherence to it would defeat the evident intent of the parties,
"the boundary may be rejected, and the extent of the grant be
determined by measurement, or other portions of the grant."
But that is not the case here. The evident intent of the parties was to go to Hart's Location as a territory or known body
of land, without particular regard to a marked, designated, and
visible line. It was their intent to leave no land belonging to
the State between that territory and the tract granted. This
was clearly the principal object in view; and as Hart's Loca
tion must necessarily have a western boundary somewhere, and
as its limits and bounds were shown, whether correctly or incor
rectly, by public maps in the archives of the State, it could not
be said that this boundary was incapable of ascertainment. To
hold this, and abandon the call of the deed for Hart's Location,
and to confine the grantees to courses and distances, would defeat instead of furthering the intention of the parties. If the
western boundary of Hart's Location had never been surveyed
on the ground, it could be surveyed; or it could be located by
agreement between the owners of it and the owners of the
Elkins grant. They were the only parties who after that grant
had any interest in the matter.
It may well be asked, if the call for Hart's Location and its

Oct. 1880.]

LAND

CO. V. SAUNDERS.

western boundary can have no significance in the Elkins grant
in 1830, how does it suddenly acquire significance in 1881, in
the grant under which the demandant claims? The language
used is almost exactly the same: "thence easterly to Hart's
Location; thence southeasterly by said Hart's Location," &c.
With the accumulated evidence on the subject which was
presented in the demandant's case, most of it of such a character as not to admit of contradiction, we think that the judge
was perfectly right in assuming that Hart's Location was a
monument sufficiently definite to control the courses and distances given in the grant. Indeed, we do not see how be could
have done otherwise. The fact that the town of Burton, which
lay to the south of Hart's Location, extended so far westerly
that its northwest corner would not be met by a line drawn due
south from any part of Hart's Location, cannot prevent the
Elkins grant from extending to Hart's Location as its eastern boundary, as called for in the deed. As before stated, the
connection between this location and the northwest corner of
Burton, if it cannot be made by a line drawn due south as
called for, must necessarily be made by the line of shortest
distance between them. This is the surveyors' rule and the
rule of law. Clamplbell v. Branch, 4 Jones (N. C.) L. 313. It
is constantly applied when trees or monuments on or near the
margin of a river are called for in a deed where the river is a
boundary.
We think that the judge did not err in relation to the construction and effect of the Elkins deed.
But the demandant raised another point at the trial, namely,
that the owners of the Elkins grant had estopped themselves
from claiming under it any land eastwardly of a line running
north from the northwest corner of the town of Burton, or
Albany. The evidence offered on this point tended to show
that about or soon after the date of the Elkins grant the
grantees or some of them employed surveyors to ascertain the
extent and boundaries of the grant, and that a line was run
directly (or nearly) north from the northwest corner of Burton
to the north line of the grant, as the supposed eastern boundary
adjoining Hart's Location; but that this was done without any
.-olnmunicaticn or agreement with the proprietors of Hart'-

LAND CO. V. SAUNDERS.

Lsup.. Ct.

Location or any other parties having an interest in the adjoining lands, and in ignorance of the true western boundary of
that location on the land. The evidence consisted of the testimony as to the declarations of some or one of the grantees, as
to the running of such line, made over forty years before, and
of a recent examination of marked trees which indicated a date
corresponding with the period referred to.
We think that the judge was right in holding that this evidence was totally insufficient, under the law of New iHampshire, or any other law, to show such a settlement of the line
as to estop the owners of the grant from claiming to the extent of the description contained in the deed. Conceding that
everything was proved which the evidence tended to prove, it
would only show that the grantees made a tentative effort to
find the limits of their property in a mountainous and almost
inaccessible wilderness, without consultation or communication
with any other parties, and without doing any act or thing
that could in the least commit them in relation to such parties.
The only line shown to have been the subject of any agreement
was that located by Wilkins in 1850, parallel to, and two hundred and thirty-five chains from, the Saco, which was concurred
in by Walker, the agent of the owners of the Elkins grant, and
one Davis, who professed to own one-half of Hart's Location.
It is alleged by the counsel of the demandant that the law
of New Hampshire dn the subject of estoppel as to boundary
lines is peculiar; that an agreement settling such lines, though
made by parol, is binding upon the parties and all those claiming under them. Conceding this to be true, not the slightest
evidence was offered to show any agreement whatever, or even
any communication, between the adjoining owners prior to
1850, and the line then agreed upon coincides substantially
with that which is now claimed by the defendant.
It is contended, however, that the running of the hypothetical line northerly from the Burton corner was an estoppel as
regards the State; that the State, upon the faith of this line
being run and marked by the Elkins grantees, entered upon
the land eastward of it, and granted the same to Bean and
others. That is, the State, by legislative resolve and solemn
grant, having in 1830 granted to Elkins and others all the land

0ct. 1880.]

LAND CO. V. SAUNDERS.

west of Hart's Location, had the right to re-enter upon some
eight thousand acres of the same land in 1831 and grant it out
to third parties, because the Elkins grantees, in making an ex
parte survey, had mistaken the position of the west boundary oi
Hart's Location. There is no pretence, certainly no proof, that
this survey was made by any concurrence of the parties, or that
there was even any communication between the agents of the
State and the Elkins grantees. The agents of the State simply
lay by and watched the operations of Elkins and company, and
finding, or supposing, that they had made a mistake, and had
left a vacant tract of land between the line they ran and Hart's
Location, stepped in and made another grant to other parties
Of nearly a sixth part of the tract granted to the Elkins party.
Not a particle of evidence was produced to show any acquiescence on the part of Elkins and his associates in this proceeding, or that they had any notice or knowledge of it. So far as
appears, they have never acknowledged the right of these new
glrantees, nor have they ever admitted that any one had any
right to interfere with the extension of their land eastwardly
to Hart's Location. We think no case can be found that
would make out an estoppel under such circumstances as
these.
We have been referred with much confidence to the case of
The Proprietors of .Enfield v. Day, 11 N. H. 520. We have
carefully examined this case, and do not find in it anything to
support the proposition contended for. There the State interposed, after due notice to the parties and an inquiry by the
legislature in reference to the true and right ownership of a
certain gore between two adjoining townships, which by an
alleged mistake of a figure bad not been included in the grant
(of Enfield), in which it was intended to be. The south line
was south 680 east in the deed, when it should have been south
58' east. The grant of Grantham was made a few years afterwards, binding on Enfield, but having the right course (south
58' east) for its north line. On the application of the proprietors of Enfield and adjoining townships, the legislature was applied to to correct this error, and commissioners were appointed
to run the true line, and the disputed gore was granted to Enfield. The parties acquiesced for twenty years, and the question

LAND

CO. v.

SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

was whether Enfield had sufficient seisin and color of title to
claim the benefit of the Statute of Limitations; and the court
held that it had. But the court expressed itself with great
caution as follows: "In this case we are clearly of opinion
the seisin would not pass by the mere effect of the second
grant; but was there not such a previous re-entry and assertion
of right on the part of the government as to constitute, together
with the grant, a conveyance with livery of seisin? An entry
upon the land by the government agents, and the running
anew and re-marking of lines, with the express design of a
reconveyance to rectify a former mistake, would seem to be
evidence sufficient to show an actual possession in the government of any given tract." Was anything of this kind done in
the present case ? Were the Elkins grantees notified of any
error or mistake? Were they informed of the intention to regrant a portion of the tract granted to them? Did they acquiesce in such proceedings? Nothing of the kind. But the court
adds: "The proceedings .of the legislature were had on public notice and actual service on the proprietors of Grantham.
They also had full knowledge of the subsequent proceedings
of the proprietors of Enfield, in their entry upon and frequent
sales of portions of this gore of land, claiming the whole under
the grant from the State, and must be regarded as acquiescing
in such adverse possession and claim. It is now too late for
the proprietors of Grantham to assert their title." It is obvious that the cases are totally distinct; and it is unnecessary
to discuss the subject further.
The judge, on this part of the case, instructed the jury that
there was no evidence before them to estop or bar those claiming under the Elkins grant from maintaining their line by the
westerly side of Hart's Location; and in this we think he was
right.

Judgment affirmed,

