DIETzsCH

v.

H'UIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

The asking of leave to plead to the jurisdiction was in
effect a withdrawal of the plea to the merits, for after a plea
in bar the defendant cannot plead to the jurisdiction of the
court; for by pleading in bar he submits to the jurisdiction.
1 Chitty, Pleading, 440, 441; Co. Lit. 303; Com. Dig., Abate,nent,C.; Bacon, Abr., Abatement (A.).
The plea in bar being in effect withdrawn by the plea to the
jurisdiction, when the demurrer to the latter was sustained the
defendant was left without plea.
If the defendant had so desired, the judgment of the court
would have been respondeat ouster. But he elected, as the
record shows, to stand by his demurrer and declined to make
any further answer. There was nothing then left for the
court to do but to pronounce judgment against him, which
was done.
There was no error in this. The suggestion that there should
have been a trial upon the plea in bar appears to have been an
afterthought.
There is no error in the record.
Judgmnent affirmed.

DIETZSCH

V. HIrDEKOPER.

1. Kern v. Huidekoper (supra, p. 485) cited and approved.
2. After the plaintiff removed to the proper Circuit Court of the United Staten
a suit in replevin brought in a State court, the latter proceeded to try it
and render judgment for a retorno habendo. An action having been thereupon brought in the State court against him and his sureties on the replevin
bond, they filed their bill in the Circuit Court, praying that the plaintiff in
that action be enjoined from further prosecuting it. Held, that the Circuit
Court properly granted the prayer of the bill.
3. The ruling in French, Trustee, v. Hay (22 Wall. 250) reaffirmed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for tha
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.Edwin Walker for the appellants.
Mr.Henry Crawford, contra.

Oct. 1880.]

O

IETISCH

v.

HUIDEKOPER.

MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

After the recovery of the judgment at law, on June 5, 1878,
by Charles Kern, one of the appellants, in the Circuit Court
for the County of Cook, in the action of replevin mentioned in
K rn v.
uid7lcoper, supra, p. 485, notwithstanding the removal of the said cause to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois, the writ of retorno habendo
was issued thereon, which the plaintiffs in the replevin suit refused to obey. Thereupon, on June 7, 1878, an action of debt
upon the replevin bond given by them was begun in the
Circuit Court of Cook County against Frederick W. Huidekoper, Thomas W. Shannon, and John Dennison, the principals, and A. B. Meeker and John B. Drake, the sureties on
said bond.
The action was brought in the name of Emil Dietzsch, the
coroner, for the use of Charles Kern, the sheriff, who was nominally interested only, the real interest in the litigation being
in the judgment and execution creditors, the Bank of North
America and John McCaffrey.
Thereupon Huidekoper, Shannon, and *Dennison, on June
10, 1878, filed the bill inthis ease in the United States Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, against Dietzsch
and Kern, in which they prayed an injunction to restrain them,
their attorneys, agents, &c., and the execution creditors represented by them, from prosecuting any suit upon said replevin
bond against the principals or sureties therein, "or in any
manner whatever taking any action to enforce any liability
or right upon said pretended judgment of return entered in
said Circuit Court of Cook County or upon the said replevin
bond."
On July 1, 1878, a preliminary injunction was allowed restraining the defendants below from in any manner prosecuting
said action upon the replevin bond, or in any manner enforcing
said judgment of return.
After the filing of this bill the action on the replevin bond
in the State court was dismissed as to all the defendants except
John B. Drake.
On Oct. 20, 1879, the complainants below filed their suppleniental bill, in which they alleged that on Oct. 1, 1879, on

DIETZSCH V. HUIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Gt.

motion of William J. Hynes, an order was entered in the Circuit Court for Cook County in the said suit, brought in the name
of Emil Dietzsch on said replevin bond, against complainants
and their sureties, by which the Bank of North America and
John McCaffrey were substituted for Dietzsch as parties plaintiff in said action, and an amended declaration was filed by
them as such plaintiffs, and a rule was entered against Drake
requiring him to plead to such amended declaration within
twenty days.
The supplemental bill charged that the Bank of North
America and John McCaffrey, and Edwin Walker, their attorney, had personal knowledge of the allowance and issue of said
injunction, and that the judgment in favor of the Bank of
North America was the property of Walker, and that the proceedings in said action of debt were in violation of the injunction of the court and taken for the purpose of evading its
orders, and prayed that the Bank of North America, McCaffrey, Walker, and Hynes might be made parties defendant to
the bill, and that the injunction allowed upon the original bill
might be so enlarged as to include the said new defendants.
Thereupon the Bank of 'North America, McCaffrey, Walker,
and Hynes appeared and filed their demurrer to the original
and supplemental bills, alleging as grounds of demurrer that
the court had no jurisdiction to enjoin proceedings in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, as prayed for in said original and supplemental bills.
The demurrer was overruled. The defendants who demurred,
electing to stand by their demurrer, declined to plead or answer.
Thereupon a decree pro confesso was taken against them, and
a final decree was made against all the defendants, by which
the preliminary injunction allowed in the case was made absolute and perpetual.
That decree is brought here by appeal.
We have already decided in Kern v. Huidekoper, supra, that
the suit in replevin, instituted by Huidekoper and others against
Kern in the Circuit Court for Cook County, was removable to
the United States Circuit Court; that by the proceedings for
that purpose it was effectually removed on July 27, 1877, to
the Federal court, which after that date alone had jurisdiction

Oc.t. 1880.]

DIETZSCH V. RJUIDEKOPER.

thereof, and that all the subsequent proceedings in the cause
iii the State court were absolutely null and void.
Upon this state of facts, the only question for decision is,
Could the court below enjoin the appellants from proceeding
in the action at law, brought by them on the replevin bond in
the Circuit Court for Cook County?
The action on the bond in that court was simply an attempt
to enforce the judgment of that court in the replevin suit,
rendered after its removal to the United States Circuit Court,
aowl after the State court had lost all jurisdiction over the case.
If no judgment had been rendered in the State court against
tij,- plaintiffs in the suit, no action could have been maintained
upon the bond. The bond took the place of the property
eizt'd in replevin, and a judgment upon it was equivalent to
an actual return of "the replevied property. The suit upon the
bond was, therefore, but an attempt to enforce a pretended
judgment of the State court, rendered in a case over which it
had no jurisdiction, but which had been transferred to and
decided by the United States Circuit Court, by a judgment in
favor of the plaintiffs in replevin.
The bill in this case was, therefore, ancillary to the re.
plevin suit, and was in substance a proceeding in the Federal
court to enforce its own judgment by preventing the defeated
party from wresting the replevied property from the plaintiffs
in replevin, who, by the judgment of the court, were entitled to it, or what was in effect the same thing, preventing
them from enforcing a bond for the return of the property
to them.
A court of the United States is not prevented from enforcing'
its own judgments by the statute which forbids it to grant a writ
of injunction to stay proceedings in a State court. Dietzsch,
the original plaintiff in the action on the replevin bond, repre.eated the real parties in interest, and he was a party to the
action of replevin, which had been pending, and was finaly
determined in the United States Circuit Court. That court
had jurisdiction of his person, and could enforce its judgment
in the replevin suit against him, or those whom he represented,
their agents and attorneys. The bill in this case was filed for
that purpose and that only.
VOL. X1Ii.

32

COUNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

[Sup. (it.

If the bill is not maintainable, the appellees would find themselves in precisely the same plight as if the judgment of the
United States Circuit Court in the replevin suit had been
against them, instead of for them. The judgment in their
favor would settle nothing. Instead of terminating the strife
between them and their adversaries, it would leave them under
the necessity of engaging in a new conflict elsewhere. This
would be contrary to the plainest principles of reason and
justice.
As the bill in this case is filed for the purpose of giving to
litigants on the law side of the court the substantial fruits of a
judgment rendered in their favor, it is merely auxiliary to the
suit at law, and the court has the right to enforce the judgment against the party defendant and those whom he represents, no matter how or when they may attempt to evade it or
escape its effect, unless by a direct proceeding. These views
are sustained by the case of French, Trustee, v. Hfay (22 Wall.
250), between which and this case there is no substantial difference.
We think, therefore, that the demurrer to the bill was
properly overruled.
Decree affirmed.

CouNTY oF MORGAN V. ALN.
1. Where a county subscribed to the capital stock of a railway company, and
issued its bonds therefor, the creditors of the company, on its becoming
insolvent, are entitled to enforce the liability of the county on the bonds
which are due and unpaid.
2. The court reaffirms the doctrine announced in Sawyer v. Hoag (17 Wall. 619)
and subsequent cases, that the assets of an insolvent company, including
the moneys due from a shareholder on his subscription to its capital stock,
constitute a fund for the payment of its creditors, and that he cannot, to
their prejudice, be released from his liability by any arrangement between
it and him which is not fair and honest and for a valuable consideration.
The doctrine is applicable where the debt created by the subscription of a
courty is evidenced by its bonds, and they were surrendered to it in fraud
of the rights of creditors, although the surrender was made pursuant to a
consent decree in a suit to which they were not parties.
8. In consideration of the facts and of the decisions of the Supreme Court r

