BONHAM V. NEEDLES.

[Sup. ot.

validity. It certainly could not make them void if they were
valid before. But it could prevent the board from exchanging
them for other bonds. There was no contract with the holders
of these bonds that this should be done, even if they were valid.
To make such a contract there is needed the acceptance of the
proposition of the State by the holder, and a good con.ideration. Neither of these existed in this case, when the legislature
%implywithdrew its proposition as to these bonds.

Dearee affirmed.

BoNiA.n

v. NEEDLES.

1. The rulings in Harterv. Kernodlian (supra, p. 562) reaffirmed.
. Although the records of a township, which was authorized by the statutes of
Illinois to make a donation to a railroad company, and issue bonds in payment thereof, contain no evidence of a meeting of the township, whereat
the qualified voters assented to the issue of bonds in payment of a donation, for which they have previously voted, the recital in the bonds, that
they were issued in pursuance of those statutes, is conclusive upon the
township in a suit brought against it by a bona fide holder, to enforce the
payment of them.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Thomas . Henderson for the appellants.
Mr. George A. Sanders for the appellees.
MR. JusTicE HAniL" delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit commenced in the Circuit Court for Wayne
County, Illinois, by Needles and others. Bonham and the
other complainants are taxpayers and real-estate owners suing in behalf of themselves and all other like persons in Big
Mound Township of Wayne County. The original defendants
were the auditor of state, the treasurer of state, the clerk and
the treasurer of the county, the collector of the township, the
First National Bank of Springfield, and the unknown holders
and owners of certain bonds (with their coupons), -five in

Oct. 1880.]

BONHAM V. NEEDLES.

number and of $1,000 each, - issued, under date of April 1,
1870, in the name of the township, and payable, twenty years
after date, to the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company or
bearer, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum.
The bonds purport to have been issued "by the township to
aid in the construction of the Illinois Southeastern Railway, in
pursuance of the authority conferred by an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled ' An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company,' approved
Feb. 25, 1867, and an act amendatory thereof, approved Feb.
24, 1869, and an election of the legal voters of the aforesaid
township, held on the tenth day of November, 1868, under the
provisions of said act." Upon each bond was indorsed, under
date of April 21, 1870, a guaranty of payment by the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, and the certificate of the State auditor, under date of July 19, 1870, stating
that it was that day registered in his office pursuant to the
provisions of "An Act to fund and provide for paying the
railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns, in force
April 16, 1869."
After the township had for nearly ten years regularly, by an
annual levy and collection of a tax for that purpose, paid the
interest on the bonds as the same became due, -the order for
such being made by the auditor of state, - the present bill was
filed. It questioned the validity of the bonds, and asked a
decree restraining the officers, who were made defendants, from
the assessment or collection of taxes to meet them. Kernochan,
one of the appellees, a citizen of Massachusetts, and the owner,
by purchase in good faith, for value, of all the bonds, appeared
in the State court, and upon his petition and bond the cause
was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, where
upon the pleadings and proofs the bill was dismissed. The
complainants appealed.
The controlling questions in the case have already been
determined in Btarter v. Kernochan, supra, p. 562. It was
there ruled that the acts of assembly, recited in the bonds
whose validity is here involved, were not repugnant to the
Constitution of Illinois, adopted in 1848. We also held that
the fifth -section of the act of Feb. 24, 1869, conferred upon

BONHAM v. NEEDLES.

[Sup. Or.

such townships in Wayne and Clay Counties as had previously
voted donations to the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company
- the qualified voters of such townships assenting thereto at a
regular or special town meeting or election - authority to issue
bonds in payment of such donations. The township of Big
Mound, on the 10th of November, 1868, voted a donation of
$5,000 to the railroad company, one-third to be levied and collected by special tax and paid to the railway company, in each
of the years 1869, 1870, and 1871; in lieu of which, however,
the company bound itself to take township bonds if requisite
authority to issue them could be obtained by further legislation.
So far this case in its essential features resembles that. The
chief difference between that case and the present one is, that
in the former the recorded proceedings of the township distinctly showed that the bonds were voted at a special town
meeting, duly called and held to consider the question of their
issue; while in this case, the records of the township contain
no evidence of a township meeting at which the qualified voters
assented to the issue of bonds in payment of the donation voted
on the 10th of November, 1868, except a certificate of William
Book, claiming to be deputy clerk of Big Mound town. In that
certificate he states that" at an election held at the Yates schoolhouse, on the twenty-eighth day of August that the majority of
the voters present voted in favor of giving bonds to the Southeastern Railway Company for the bonus. This August 28th,
1869." Several witnesses testify that an election was held. But
the correctness of the decree and the validity of the bonds in
the hands of a bona fide purchaser do not depend upon proof,
in this suit, that such an election was, in fact, duly called and
held, at which the qualified voters assented to an issue of bonds
in payment of the donation previously voted.
The statutes which we have mentioned conferred, as we have
shown in Harter v. Kernochan, ample authority upon the township to issue bonds in payment of the donation voted, the qualified electors assenting thereto at a regular or special town
meeting. The bonds recite that they were issued in pursuance of the authority conferred by those statutes. Such recitals
import a compliance with the statute, and the township, according to the uniform decisions of this court, is estopped to

Oct. 1880.]

WARDELL V. RAILROAD

C0.

assert, as against a bona fide holder for value, that such recitals
are untrue. Buchanan v. Litchfield (102 U. S. 278), and authorities there cited.
There are other questions in the case which counsel have
pressed upon our consideration. None of them are, in our
judgment, vital to its merits, and we do not stop to comment
upon them.
Decree affirmed.

WARDELL v. RArnRoAD CoPANY.
1. The directors of a corporation are subject to the obligations which the law
imposes upon trustees and agents. They cannot, therefore, with respect to
the same matters, act for themselves and for it, nor occupy a position in
conflict with its interests.
2. Hence, a court will refuse to give effect to arrangements by directors of a
railroad company to secure, at its expense, undue advantages to themselves,
by forming, as an auxiliary to it, a new company, with the understanding that they or some of them shall become stockholders in it, and then
that valuable contracts shall be given to it by the railroad company, in
the profits of which they, as such stockholders, shall share.
8, The contract entered into July 16, 1868, by the Union Pacific Railroad Company, by direction of the executive committee of the board of directors,
with Godfrey and Wardell (infra, p. 652), which the latter assigned, without consideration, to a new company, in which a majority of the stock was
taken by six directors of the old company, declared to be fraudulent and
void.
APPIEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Ir. James 0. Broadhead and Mr. James ff. Woolworth for
the appellant.
Mr. Andrew J. Poppleton for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The road of the Union Pacific Railroad Company passes for
its entire length, from Omaha on the Missouri River to Ogden
in Utah, a distance of 1,036 miles, through a country almost
destitute of timber fit for fuel. During its construction, however large deposits of coal, of excellent quality and easily

