Oct. 1880.]

CROUCH V. ROEMER.

properly brought in the district against a non-resident. Such
a suit, if not local, must be in the division where the defendant
is found when served with process; if local, in the division where
the property, which is the subject-matter of the action, is situated. There is not manifested anywhere in this act an intention of repealing sect. 739, so far as it affects the Iowa district.
l1otion denied.

CROUCH V. ROEmER.
1.Reissued letters-patent No. 4289, granted March 7, 1871, to George Crouch,
for an improvement in straps for shawls, are void, by reason of the prior

knowledge and public use of the invention which they describe.
2. The substitution of a known equivalent for one of the elements of a former
structure is not patentable.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
This is a suit in equity by George Crouch against William
Roemer to prevent the infringement by the latter of reissued
letters-patent No. 4289, granted March 7, 1871, to the complain.
ant for an improvement in straps for shawls.
Among the defences set up by the respondent was the want
of novelty and the prior public use of the invention described
in the letters. The remaining facts are stated in the opinion
of the court.
The court below sustained the defence and dismissed the bill.
Crouch thereupon appealed.
Mr. B. B. Barutza for the appellant.
1lr. Arthur v. Briesen, eontra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The appellant in this case, complainant below, in describing
his invention, when he applied for his patent, said that before
his invention "straps had been used to confine a shawl, or similar article, in a bundle, and a leather cross-piece, with loops at
the ends, had extended from one strap to the other; and above,

CROUCH

v. ROEiE.R.

[Sup. Ut,

and attached to this leather cross-piece, was a handle." He
then said: " My invention consists of a rigid cross-bar beneath
the handle, combined with straps that are passed around the
shawl or bundle, such straps passing through loops at the ends
of the handle." This was because the "leather cross-piece or
connecting strap" was "liable to bend and allow the straps to
be drawn toward each other by the handle in sustaining the
weight;

. .

hence

the handle is inconvenient to grasp."

From this, as it seems to us, the rigid cross-bar was, from the
beginning, the controlling idea of the inventor. His object
clearly was, not to bind and hold the bundle, but to keep the
handle which the holder was to grasp from pressing the sides
of the hand. Hence he says: "I claim as my invention1. The rigid cross-bar, connecting the ends of the handle, and
provided with loops for the straps, substantially as and for the
purposes set forth ;" that is to say, to bind and hold a bundle
to be carried. The drawings which accompany this application show that the inventor had in his mind straps which were
to pass over the rigid bar crosswise, but there is nothing to indicate that they might not pass over the ends or through openings in the bar itself. Next he claims, "loops made of the
leather of the handle, and secured to the rigid cross-bar," and
then, " the rigid cross-bar for a shawl-strap made of sheet metal,
corrugated and covered with leather."
Clearly the defendant could not have infringed any other
than the first claim. He did have a rigid cross-bar connecting
the ends of a handle provided with openings, which were undoubtedly the equivalent of loops through which the straps to
hold the bundle could pass; but he had no loops made of the
leather of the handles, and no cross-bar made of sheet-metal
corrugated and covered with leather. Our inquiries are, therefore, confined to the validity of the first claim in the complainant's patent.
It is conceded in the patent itself that shawl-straps with
handles attached to a leather cross-piece having loops at the
ends were old. Eustace, one of the witnesses for the complainant, says he made his goods with a cross-piece of the firmest leather he could get, doubled and stitched, so as to render
it firmer still. His object clearly was to keep the weight of

Oc t. 1880.]

CROUCH V. ROEMER.

the bundle from drawing the ends of the handle together so as
to press against the sides of the hand.
The testimony leaves no doubt on our minds that handles
fastened on rigid cross-bars and used to carry bundles were
known long before the complainant's invention. Possibly in
adjusting them to use, though this is by no means certain, the
straps to bind the bundle were not passed through loops across
[he bar, yet it is clear, beyond all question, that the handle,
rigid cross-bar, loops, or their equivalent, and straps, or equivalents, were used in combination to keep together and carry one
or more articles in a package made by piling or rolling the
articles together. Under these circumstances it was no invention to stiffen by artificial means the leather cross-piece which
had before been made as rigid as it could be by thickness,
doubling, and stitching. All that was done by this inventor
was to add to the degree of rigidity which had been used before. The addition of metal or other substance as a stiffener of
the known cross-piece, which had already been made rigid in a
degree, was not invention. The substantial elements of a wellknown structure were thus, in no patentable way, changed.
This view of the case makes it unnecessary to follow counsel
in their efforts to break down or sustain the testimony of individual witnesses. The thing which the complainant claims
to have patented was substantially made and used long before
his invention. All he did was, by the use of known equivalents for some of the elements of former structures, to make it
somewhat better than it was ever made before. This is not
patentable.

Decree ffifrmed.

