NATIONAL BANK V. OITY BANK

[Sup. Ot.

NAToINTAL BANKx v. CITY BANx.
E'ursuant to orders received from A., the owner of the Corn Exchange Elevator
at Oswego, who was engaged in storing grain for the public and doing busineso
on his own account, B. bought for him two cargoes of wheat, and drew sight
and time drafts for the purchase-money. C., a bank at Milwaukee, bought
the drafts and received the bills of lading. The latter describe B. as the
shipper, and, by their terms, each cargo was to be delivered at Oswego to
the account or order, of D., cashier of C., care of the City Bank. C. there
upon enclosed the drafts and bills of lading to the City Bank, saying, "On
payment of the drafts you will deliver the cargo to the, order of A. If not
paid, please hold and advise by telegraph." The bank acknowledged their
receipt, and presented the sight-drafts to A., who paid them, and accepted
the time-drafts. Upon the arrival of the wheat at Oswego, the master of
each vessel reported to the cashier of the City Bank, who, knowing that A.
was the owner of the Corn Exchange Elevator, indorsed the bills of lading:
"Deliver to the Corn Exchange Elevator for account of D., cashier, Milwaukee, subject to the order of the City Bank, Oswego." After the wheat
had been so delivered, A. sold and shipped it. In its account with C., the
City Bank made a charge for its trouble beyond the customary percentage
for collecting and remitting the proceeds of the drafts. Before the time-drafts
became due, A. failed. They were duly protested for non-payment, and have
not been paid. In an action by C. against the City Bank, -Hdd, 1. That
the City Bank, in receiving and acknowledging the drafts and bills of lading,
with the accompanying instructions, became the agent of C. in the business
which it had undertaken. 2. That whether, in discharging its duties as such
agent, it exercised reasonable diligence and care, is a question for the jury,
which the court below should not have withdrawn from them and decided.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. H. H. Finch for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Albertus Perry, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
A, F. Smith & Co. were the owners of the Corn Exchange
Elevator of Oswego, N. Y., in which they were engaged in the
general business of elevating and storing grain for the public.
They were also large dealers in grain on their own account.
In September, 1869, Mower, Church, & Bell, commission merchants in Milwaukee, received orders from Smith & Co. to
purchase for them two cargoes of wheat, and to draw on them
for the purchase-money against each cargo. The cargoes were

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL

BANK V. CITY BANK.

bought, and sight-drafts for part of the purchase-money and
time-drafts for the balance were, in each instance, drawn on
A. F. Smith & Co.
The Milwaukee National Bank purchased these drafts, and
received also the bills of lading for the wheat. They describe
Mower, Church, & Bell as the shippers, and, by their terms, the
cargo, in each case, is to be delivered at Oswego to the account
or order of T. L. Baker, cashier of the Milwaukee Bank, care
of the City Bank of Oswego.
The Milwaukee Bank enclosed the drafts and the accompanying bills of lading to the City Bank of Oswego, with instructions about insurance, and added, "On payment of the drafts
you will deliver the cargo to the order of Messrs. Smith & Co.
If not paid, please hold and advise by telegraph. Messrs.
Smith & Co. will pay all expenses."
The letter and enclosures were duly received and acknowledged by the City Bank, and on presentation to A. F. Smith
& Co. they paid the sight-drafts and accepted the time-drafts.
When the vessels arrived at Oswego the masters promptly
reported to Mannering, the cashier of the City Bank, who made
the following indorsement on each bill of lading held by the
masters: "Deliver to the Corn Exchange Elevator, for account of T. L.
Baker, cashier, Milwaukee, subject to order of the City Bank,
Oswego.
"Oct. 9, 1869.
D. MANNRmG, Cashier."
A. F. Smith & Co. sold and shipped the wheat after it had
been put in their elevator, and shortly thereafter they failed.
When the time-drafts fell due, they were duly protested for
non-payment, and have never been paid.
The Milwaukee Bank sued the City Bank to recover the loss
on the drafts, on the ground that the City Bank had delivered
the wheat to Smith & Co. before the drafts were paid, contrary
to the instructions which accompanied the drafts and bills of
lading. All the evidence is embodied in the bill of exceptions,
and on the case, as there made, the court instructed the jury
to find a verdict for the defendant, which was done. It is this
instruction which is assigned for error by the plaintiff.

NATIONAL BANK V. CITY BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

The City Bank, in receiving the drafts and bills of lading
with instructions to deliver the wheat to A. F. Smith & Co.,
on payment of the drafts, and acknowledging the receipt of
these drafts, became the agent of the Milwaukee Bank in the
business which it had undertaken. Whatever obligation might,
under other circumstances, be imposed on the bank by its consent to receive the drafts and bills of lading, it, in the present
case, received them with instructions which the bills of lading
empowered it to execute; namely, to control the possession
of the wheat until the drafts on Smith & Co. were paid. In
acknowledging the receipt of these papers the cashier says:
"We prefer, after this, not to receive B. L. (meaning bill of
lading) when we have to look after the property." This is an
implied admission that they were to look after the property,
and would do so in the case to which the letters related. The
bank also undertook to discharge this duty when the masters
of the vessels, presenting themselves and cargo to the cashier of
that bank for delivery, were directed, by him in writing to
deliver to the Corn Exchange Elevator. It, therefore, undertook to discharge a duty as agent of the Milwaukee Bank in
regard to the custody of the wheat, under instructions that it
should deliver it to Smith & Co. on payment of the drafts.
There is evidence tending to show that the City Bank, in its
account with the Milwaukee Bank, made an additional charge
or percentage for their trouble beyond the customary charge
for collecting and remitting proceeds of the drafts. So that it
undertook a duty for which it received and intended to exact
compensation.
What, then, is the measure of its obligation as such agent to
the plaintiff ?
We suppose that there can be no question that it should use
due care and diligence in performing the task which it had
undertaken.
One of the clear duties of an agent, under such circumstancts, is to obey instructions, if by a reasonable exercise of
diligence and care they can be obeyed.
We think the instructions in this case very clearly implied
that the bank, which by the bill of lading was invested with
the full right to the possession of the wheat, should not delive,

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK v. CITY BANK.

it to A. F. Smith & Co., except upon payment of the drafts, that is, of all the drafts drawn against each cargo of wheat.
The reasons for this are very plain. The wheat had been
bought by Mower, Church, & Bell in Milwaukee for A. F.
Smith & Co., but they had to raise the money to pay for it by
drafts on the latter. These drafts could only be negotiated
by placing the control of the wheat in the hands of the purchasers of the drafts as security for their payment. The sightdrafts were paid by Smith & Co. when the wheat arrived in
Oswego. They had thus paid that much money on the purchase. They were to pay all expenses. There remained unpaid,
however, the time-drafts; and the instruction of the Milwaukee
Bank to its agent, the City Bank, was not to part with the
possession and control of this wheat to Smith & Co. until those
drafts were paid. It was the only security which the bank
had for their payment, and it was ample.
As we have already said, A. F. Smith & Co. were the owners and managers of the Corn Exchange Elevator. It is proved
that the officers of the bank knew this. The cashier of the
City Bank, therefore, knew that when he made the order on
the bills of lading for the delivery of the wheat to the Corn
Exchange Elevator, he was ordering its delivery to A. F. Smith
& Co. It was by reason of this delivery and the failure of
Smith & Co. that the amount of the drafts was lost to plaintiff.
Did the defendant, therefore, under the circumstances of the
case, exercise due care and diligence in storing this wheat in
the Corn Exchange Elevator?
The judge took this question from the jury and decided it in
favor of the defendant. We are of opinion that in this the
court erred. We do not decide here that the defendant was
negligent. We think there was evidence on which that question should have been left to the jury. We think it should
still be left to a jury.
It was said in answer to this view of the subject that the
Iank had no warehouse or other place of its own in which to
:tore the wheat, and that this was known to the Milwaukee
Bank, which must, therefore, have known that the City Bank
Would be compelled to store it with some one until the drafts,
which had some time to run. should be paid. That Smith &

NAv0NAL BANK V. CITY BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

Co. were supposed to be safe and solvent men engaged in that
business, of good reputation, and that all wheat received under
such circumstances in Oswego was deposited in elevators.
These are circumstances for the jury to consider. On the
other hand, it is to be said that there were other elevators in
Oswego, not owned by Smith & Co., ready to receive the wheat.
To some of these it could have been delivered without danger
of complicating the possession as bailee, with possession under
claim of ownership. And this is important, for there are laws
making the embezzlement of property, when held as bailee by
warehousemen and elevators, a criminal offence. It would be
more difficult to convict Smith & Co. of embezzlement for selling this wheat when it had been bought for them, part of the
money paid for it by them, and when they had accepted negotiable drafts for the remainder of the purchase-money, and
when in fact it was their property, subject only to the payment
of their outstanding drafts.
Was it acting with ordinary prudence to hazard the security
which possession of the wheat gave, by delivering it to the very
party to whom his principal had directed him not to deliver it?
It further appears that the defendant bank took no receipt
from Smith & Co., showing that they held it as bailees, but
left that to stand on the indorsement they made on the bills of
lading in the hands of the masters of the vessels, and a simple
acknowledgment of the receipt of the wheat by A. F. Smith &
Co. on the same bills of lading. One of the firm of Smith
& Co. swears that no warehouse receipt was given.
There was a plain course to be pursued, which involved no
difficulty or trouble, namely, storing the wheat in some other
elevator or warehouse until A. F. Smith & Co., on payment of
the acceptances, should call for it. This course would not have
involved a departure from their instruction not to deliver to
Smith & Co. until the drafts were paid, and would have saved
all parties from loss.
Some question is made in the argument as to the effect of
proceedings taken by plaintiff to recover the wheat or its value
of parties who bought or received it from A. F. Smith & Co.
It is only necessary to say, if the jury shall be of opinion that
defendant was negligent in delivering the wheat to A. F. Smith

Oct. 1880.]

MCCARTHY V. PROVOST.

& Co., it is responsible to plaintiff for the amount of the unpaid
drafts, less any sum not actually recovered from others.
Without further comment, we are of opinion that there was
evidence of negligence or want of due care on the part of
defendant, which, taken in connection with the positive instruction of the plaintiff, should have been submitted to the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed,
with instructions to grant a new trial.
So ordered.

MCCARTHY V. PROVOST.
In a suit for partition, the value of the undivided part in controversy, and not
of the lands, determines the appellate jurisdiction of this court.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Mr. 1oimas J. Semmes for the appellant.
J1Ir. Henry B. Kclly for the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
We have no jurisdiction in this case. The suit was brought
to recover one two hundred and fortieth part of certain lands,
and for a partition so as to set off to the appellant in severalty
that interest. It is averred in the bill that "the value of the
property sought to be partitioned amounts to more than 85,000,"
but the matter in dispute on this appeal is only one two hundred and fortieth part of the whole property, as that is all the
appellant claims. Our jurisdiction, therefore, depends on the
value of that part, which certainly is not shown to be more
than $5,000.
Appeal dismissed.
VO.

1

.

