9,:t. 1880.]

FIsK

v.

ARTHUR.

had become a State, its legislature, by an express enactment,
authorized railroad companies organized under the laws of
Kansas, Missouri, or Iowa to extend and build their roads into
the State, and declared that, upon complying with certain conditions, they should possess all the powers, franchises, and privileges of railroad companies incorporated under its laws. It is
not shown that the company here has not complied with the
prescribed conditions, even if such an objection could be raised
by any other party than the State itself. But independently
of this consideration, where Congress has conferred upon a
railroad corporation of a State a right of way over the public
lands of the United States in any one of their Territories, it
may be doubted whether the State subsequently created out of
the Territory could prevent the enjoyment by such corporation
of the right conferred. It could do so only on the same terms
that it could refuse a recognition of its own previously granted
right, for in such matters the State would succeed only to the
authority of Congress over the Territory.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska must,
therefore, be reversed, and the cause be remanded to it with
directions that further proceedings be had in accordance with
this opinion; and it is
So ordered
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

dissented.

FISK v. ARTHUR.
1. In 1873, A. imported certain manufactured shirtings, not made up, composed
of linen and cotton, the latter being the material of chief value and largely
predominating. Hdd, that they were, within the meaning of the tariff acts,
manufactures of cotton, and, as such, subject to the duty imposed by the
first section of the act of March 3, 1865, c. 80. 13 Stat. 491.
2. The raling in Solonon v. Artlhur (102 U. S. 208), that goods made of mixed
materials were not dutiable under the mixed-material clause of the twenty.
second section of the act of March 2, 1861, c. 192 (12 Stat. 192), ff they
came properly within any other description found in the tariff acts, reaf
firmed.

FISK v. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Stephen G. Cqarke for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. CHEF JuSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
-ourt.
This is a suit to recover back duties paid under protest. The
goods imported were manufactured shirtings, not made up,
composed of linen and cotton; the cotton being the material of
chief value and largely predominating. There were more than
two hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp and
filling.
The act of March 2, 1861, c. 68, sect. 22 (12 Stat. 192), provided for a duty of thirty per cent ad valorem on "manufactures not otherwise provided for, composed of mixed materials,
in p.rt of cotton, silk, wool or worsted, or flax." The same act,
sect. 14, provided for specific duties on all manufactures of cotton not bleached, &c., having certain numbers of threads to the
square inch, counting the warp and filling and being of certain
weights. Au addition was made to the duties on manufactures
of mixed materials by the act of July 14, 1862, c. 163, sect. 13.
Id. 557. By the act of June 27, 1864, c. 171, sect. 6 (13 id.
208), the duties on manufactured cottons, as provided in the
act of 1861, were to some extent changed and a general clause
added at the end of the section as follows: "All other manufactures of cotton, not otherwise provided for, thirty-five per
centum ad valorem." On the 3d of March, 1865, c. 80, sect. 1
(id. 491), the rates of duty on manufactures of cotton dependent
on the weight and the nunber of threads to the square inch
were somewhat changed.
By the act of April 30, 1842, c. 270, sect. 20 (5 id. 565), now
sect. 2499 of the Revised Statutes, it was provided that there
should be levied and collected on each and every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either in material, quality,
texture, or the use to which it may be applied, to any enumerated article chargeable with duty, the same rate of duty which
is levied and charged on the enumerated article it most resem.

Oct. 1880.]

FISK v. ARTniU.

bles in any of the above particulars; and if any aon-enumerated article equally resembles two or more enumerated articles,
on which different rates of duty are chargeable, it shall pay
the highest rate, and on all articles manufactured from two or
more materials the duty shall be assessed at the highest rate
chargeable on any of its component parts.
The collector in this case demanded and collected the duties
at the rates chargeable on manufactures of cotton exceeding
two hundred threads to the square inch, while the importer
claimed the goods were dutiable under the acts of 1861 and
1802, as composed of mixed materials. The suit was brought
to recover back the excess charged by the collector, and on the
trial the court instructed the jury on the conceded facts to
bring in a verdict for the defendant. This instruction is assigned for error here.
We decided in ,Solomon v. Artlthur (102 U. S. 208) that the
mixed-material clause of the act of 1861 was descriptive rather
than denominative, and that because goods were made of mixed
materials they were not necessarily stamped with the name of
mixed goods. Consequently goods made of mixed materials
were not dutiable under that clause if they came properly
within any other description found in the tariff acts. The act
of 1864 provides for all manufactures of cotton, so that the
question here is, whether these goods are essentially of that
character. If they are, they are not dutiable under the mixedmaterial clause.
In Stua,t v. 1zxwell (16 How. 150), it was held that the
act of 1842 brought goods made of linen and cotton within the
provision of the tariff act of 1846, c. 74, sect. 11 (9 Stat. 46),
sched. D, which imposed a duty on "manufactures composed
wholly of cotton, not otherwise provided for." It was conceded
that manufactures of cotton and linen were not enumerated in
the act of 1846, but we said that, "By providing for the principal thing, it has provided for all other things which the law
declares to be the same. It is only upon this ground that sheer
and manifest evasions can be reached. Suppose an article is
designedly made to serve the uses and take the place of some
article described, but some trifling or colorable change is made
in the fabric or some of its incidents. It is new in the market.
VOL. X111.

28

FIsK v. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ot.

No man can say he has ever seen it before, or known it under
any commercial name. But it is substantially like a known
article which is provided for. The law of 1842 then declare.
that it is to be deemed the same and to be charged accordingly." The effect of this is to hold that such an article "is
provided for under the name of what it resembles." Here, all
manufactures of cotton are provided for in the act of 1864 and
its amendments, and the article now in question, in material,
quality, and texture, as well as the use to which it is to be
applied, is precisely like cotton shirtings. As cotton largely
predominates, we think the burden was cast on the importer to
show that the change was substantial and not for the purpose
of evading the requirements of the law. It is not pretended
that the new article had acquired any distinctive name in commerce, or that it was in any material respect different from
similar goods manufactured entirely of cotton. The only difference between this case and that of Stuart v. iifaxwell is tha
here it is claimed the articles are enumerated as mixed goods,
while there that they were not enumerated at all. There it was
held that they were not non-enumerated because they were substantially cotton goods, and here we think for the same reason
they are not mixed goods. They are substantially, and, therefore, within the meaning of the tariff acts, actually manufactures of cotton. Linen has been used to a limited extent, not
to make goods of "mixed materials," but to make "manufactures of cotton" more useful for some purposes. To hold, upon
the facts as they are admitted to be, that these goods were
something radically different from cotton shirtings, would be
to encourage evasions of the descriptive terms in the tariff laws,
"by some trifling or colorable change in the fabric, or some
of its incidents." This we are not inclined to do.
Judqment afflrmed.

