TERRY v. McLURE.

[Sup. Ct.

TEI y v. McLuRE.
L Eight years after a bill in equity had been filed, and on the day it was dismissed, on a final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, an amended bill
was filed without leave. Held, that it must be disregarded in the consideration of the case here.
2. The Statute of Limitations is a bar to a suit brought four years after a bank
in South Carolina had permanently suspended specie payments, by a holder
of its notes to enforce the individual liability of the stockholders.
:. Carrol v. Green (92 U. S. 509) and Godfrey v. Terry (97 id. 171) cited and approved.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of South Carolina.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. -Harvey Terry for the appellant.
Mr. James Lowndes and Mdr. William E. Earl, eontra.
MP. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in chancery brought by Terry against McLure, as receiver of the Bank of Chester, certain officers of the
bank, and one or two of its stockholders. Its main purpose
was to obtain a discovery of the names of the stockholders at
the date of the failure of the bank, in order to make them,
when discovered, liable for the amount of the circulating notes
of the bank held by the complainant. It would be a useless
task to trace here the interminable amendments to the original
bill, none of which varied essentially its character, though
some of the later ones attempted to set up fraud in the stockholders in receiving dividends declared and paid on their stock
while the bank, as lie alleged, was in a state of insolvency. It
is enough to say of all these amendments, except the last, that
no sufficient statement of the names of the stockholders who
received such dividends, and of the amounts received by each,
or of the circumstances under which they were declared or
received, is found, whereon to charge any one stockholder.
This amended bill gives the names of a large number of
stockholders, with a statement of the sum received by each,
and is full of the general allegations that the money so received
was a trust fund that should have been applied to the payment

Oct. 1880.]

TERRY V. McLuRL.

of the debts of the bank, but was diverted from its proper use
to the payment of dividends.
This amended bill, however, was filed on the sixth day of
May, 1878, which was eight years after the original bill was
filed. It does not appear that any leave of the court was
obtained to file it, though some four or five other amended bills
show in every instance that they were filed with the leave of
the court. It is a fair inference that what counsel on the other
side say in their briefs is true, namely, that it was fied without
leave and was disregarded by the court. In fact, the record
shows that the original bill was dismissed on its merits after
hearing on the pleadings, testimony, and argument of counsel,
on the same day that this last amended bill was filed. Whether
before or after the decree of the court was rendered is not
shown. Nor is it material, as it must be understood that however it got to be filed in court it was done without consent of
the court or of counsel for the defendants. It must be disregarded, therefore, in the consideration of the case here.
As regards the statutory liability of the stockholders, the
allegations of the bill, the answers of the defendants, and the
evidence taken in the case all show that the suspension of specie
paymients took place on the twenty-seventh day of November,
1860, and that the statute of limitations of four years of the
State of South Carolina, applicable to such cases, bars the
complainant's right of recovery.
This point was adjudged in this court against the present
complainant in Godfrey v. Terry, 97 U. S. 171. See also
C'arol v. Gree i, 92 id. 509.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Affirmed.

