Oct. 1880.]

OHIo e.

FRANK.

purchaser ; nothing to put him on inquiry. As the defendant
in error is a bona fide holder for value, the fact that the amount
of the bonds issued by the corporate authorities exceeded by
10,000 the amount of stock voted for by the inhabitants June
25, 1870, can have no influence upon his right to a recovery
upon the bonds which he holds.
We find no error in the record..
Judgment affirred.

Ono v.

FRANK.

1. The rulings in Walnut v. Wade (supra, p. 683) reaffirmed.
2. The court enforces the ruling of the Supreme Court of Illinois, that a note
given in that State for a sum of money at a stipulated rate of interest not
exceeding ten per cent per annum bears that rate as long as the principal
remains unpaid.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Xr. William C. Goudy and Mr. Allan C. Story for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. J. Hf. Roberts and Mr. Shelby A. Cullom for the defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action upon bonds issued by the town of Ohio,
the plaintiff in error, and upon certain unpaid coupons attached
to them. The bonds were issued by authority of the act of the
legislature of Illinois of March 25, 1869, referred to in Walnut
v. Wade, supra,p. 683. That case decided every question raised
in this except one, which relates to the matter of interest on
the bonds.
That interest was at the rate of ten per cent per annum.
In entering judgment the court below included interest upon
the bonds at that rate from their maturity until the date of the
judgment. This was assigned for error because there was no

OHio v. FRANK.

[Sup-

Ct.

agreement in the bonds to pay interest after maturity. It was
claimed that no interest at all should have been allowed on
them after they fell due, but that if any interest was allowed
it should have been computed only at the rate of six per cent
per annum, which is the legal rate in Illinois.
At the date of the bonds sued on the law of Illinois fixed the
rate of interest at six per cent per annum where it was not
settled by the contract, but allowed parties to contract for any
rate not exceeding ten per cent per annum.
No authority is cited in support of the proposition that no
interest should have been allowed on the bonds after their
maturity.
The plaintiff in error relies upon the case of Holden v. Trust
Company (100 U. S. 72), to support the claim that only six
per cent interest should have been computed on the bonds after
their maturity.
That case arose in the District of Columbia, where substantially the same regulations on the subject of interest were prescribed by statute as in Illinois. The court in that case said:
"The rule heretofore applied by this court, under the circumstances of this case, has been to give the contract rate up to th,maturity of the contract, and thereafter the rate prescribed for
cases where the parties themselves have fixed no rate." But
the court added: "When a different rule has been established
it governs of course in that locality. The question is always
one of local law."
A different rule has been established in Illinois by the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State. In Phlnney v.
Baldwin (16 Ill. 108), it was held that a note given for a sum
of money, bearing interest at a given rate per month, continues
to bear that rate of interest as long as the principal remains
unpaid.
This rule was followed by the court below in computing the
amount of the judgment in this case.
Judgment affirmed

