Out. 1880.]

RICHMOND MINING Co. v. EUREKA MINING 0.

839

instrument to which he refers, and on which the rights of the
parties depend. There is no allegation of fraud or mistake
in reducing the contract to writing. It follows that the de
murrer to the cross-bill was properly sustained.
Decree affirmed.

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY V. EUREKPA MnMNG COXPANY.
E. and R., two mining companies, in settlement of the differences between them
respecting the possession of certain ground and the ores therein contained in
the Eureka Mining District in Nevada, entered into an agreement establishing between specified points on the earth's surface a boundary line between
their respective claims, and stipulating that E. would convey to R. all the
mining ground and claim lying northwesterly of said line, including "all
veins, lodes, ledges, deposits, dips, spurs, and angles on, in, or under the
same contained," and that R. would convey to E., with a covenant of warranty against its own acts, all its right, title, and interest in and to any and
all the land or mining ground situated on the southeasterly side of said
line, and in and to "all ores, precious metals, veins, lodes, ledges, deposits,
dips, spurs, and angles on, in, or under the said land or mineral ground."
The agreement further declared that it was the object and intention of the
parties to confine the workings of R. "to the northwesterly side of the said
line continued downward to the centre of the earth." Held, that the agreement must be construed as extending the boundary line downwards through
the dips of the veins or lodes wherever they may go in their course towards
the centre of the earth.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nevada.
This is a suit in ejectment brought by the Eureka Consolidated Mining Company against the Richmond Mining Company of Nevada to recover the possession of a valuable mining
property. The facts appearing in the findings, which, in the
opinion of the court, are decisive of the case, may be stated as
follows In Ruby Hill, a spur of Prospect Mountain, in the Eureka
Mining District, Nevada, is a zone of limestone, running in a
northwesterly and southeasterly direction for a distance of a
little more than a mile. Underlying this zone, on the southerly

840

RICHMOND MINING CO. v. EUREKA MINING CO.

[Sup. CL

side, is a well-defined unbroken foot-wall of quartzite, several
hundred feet thick, and with a dip to the northward of about
forty-five degrees. On the northerly side is an overhanging
wall or belt of shale, also well defined and generally unbroken,
which dips at an angle of about eighty degrees, and varies in
thickness from less than an inch to seventy or eighty feet. At
the easterly end of the zone these walls of quartzite and shale
approach so closely as to be separated only by a seam less than
an inch in thickness. From this point they diverge until on
the surface, at the Eureka mine, they are about five hundred
feet apart, and at the Richmond about eight hundred. At
some depth below the surface they must come together if they
continue to descend on the same angle, and, on some of the
levels that have been worked, they are already found to be only
from two to three hundred feet apart. This zone of limestone,
at some time since its original deposit, has been broken, fissured,
and disintegrated in all directions, so as to destroy, except in a
few places of a few feet each, all traces of stratification. In
this way its original structure and character became totally
changed, and it was fitted to receive the extensive mineral deposits which are found in the numerous fissures, caverns, and
cavities, and in the loose material of the rock, in various forms.
Sometimes the mineral appears in a series or succession of orebodies, more or less closely connected; sometimes in apparently
isolated chambers, and again in sriiall bodies and in scattered
grains. Although barren limestone intervenes, the mineral is
so generally diffused throughout the zone as to render the
-whole mineralized matter metal-bearing rock. Bodies of ore
appear in croppings on the surface at various points throughout
the whole length of the zone, along which mining claims have
been located. No mineral has been found either in the quartzite or the shale, and no considerable indications of any have
been discovered within a mile north or south of the limestone.
In 1864 the miners of the district adopted a system of laws
and regulations for their government. At that time provisions
were made for ledge locations only, and in February, 1869, it
was found necessary to add some amendments to meet the requirements of the district. This was done by a resolution
which contained a preamble as follows:-

Oct. 1880.]

RICHMOND

IMINING

Cu. v. EURLKA MINING CO.

841

"1Whereas, explorations have made it evident that the mineral
in Eureka District is found more frequently in the form of deposits
than in fissure-veins or ledges, and the laws of the district do not
provide for the location of such deposits; and whereas, the deficiency in the law may give rise to expensive litigation, . . .the

miners of Eureka District have adopted the following amendments
to the old laws of the district."
The amendments were to the effect that deposit claims might
be located; that a deposit claim should consist of a piece of
ground one hundred feet square, and be designated as a
"square; " that under certain circumstances such claims might
be united; and that the owner should be entitled to all the
mineral within his "ground to an indefinite depth."
On the 29th of May, 1869, after this amendment of the
miners' laws, there was filed for record in the mining records
of the district a "square" location of the Lookout claim, being
four hundred feet northerly and southerly and two hundred
feet easterly and westerly, that is to say, "one hundred feet on
each side of the bill monuments for the centre, and . . . on
the north end of Ruby Hill." On the 20th of September,
1869, notice of a ledge claim, called the Tip-Top, was filed for
record in the same records, and on the same day, by other
parties, another claim, the Richmond, for "seven locations of
one hundred feet square," and seven locations of two hundred
feet each, on the Richmond ledge, more particularly described
"as located and situated adjoining the Champion claim on the
south, and running north from said Champion, and adjoining
the claim known as the Tip-Top ledge." Both the Tip-Top
and Richmond claims included "all dips, spurs, and angles."
The Tip-Top covered six hundred feet on the ledge and one
hundred feet on each side. The Lookout adjoined the Richmond on the north.
The Eureka company, at some time before April 26, 1871,
but at what precise date does not appear, became the owner of
the Champion, Nuget, At Last, and Margaret claims. The
Champion, At Last, and Margaret adjoined the Richmond and
Lookout on the west. The Nuget adjoined the Champion, but
its westerly line did not extend to the Richmond as originally
located. The At Last adjoined the Champion, and the Marga-

842

RICHMOND MINING CO. V. EUREKA MINING 00. [Sup. Ut.

ret the At Last. The Nuget extended to and across the line
between the zone of limestone and the quartzite, and the distance across the four claims from the Nuget, on its southerly
side, to the Margaret, on its northerly side, is seven hundred
feet. It was not found in terms by the court below whether
these claims extended the entire distance across the zone between the quartzite and the shale, but as it was found that the
width of the zone, at the Eureka mine, was five hundred feet,
and at the Richmond eight hundred, the fair inference is that
the four claims belonging to the Eureka covered substantially
the entire surface of the limestone between the end lines of the
Champion extended.
On the 26th of April, 1871, the Eureka company conveyed
to the Richmond a triangular piece of ground in the southwesterly corner of the Champion claim, described by metes
and bounds, and in the deed the following provision was
made

-

"But it is expressly understood and agreed that this deed doeq
not convey gr quitclaim or release any ores, precious metals, veins,
lodes, or deposits, dips, spurs, or angles not embraced within the
above-mentioned boundaries, and that the party of the second part
[Richmond company] agrees and covenants, for itself, its successors
and assigns, to make no claim hereafter to any ground or ore or
metals therein embraced within the Nuget, Champion, Lookout, At
Last, Margaret, and other mining claims and locations now owned
and possessed by the party of the first part [Eureka company], except as to that contained within the limits of the above-described
triangular piece of ground."
The Richmond company, in working its mine on the Richmond location, and in following the vein which cropped out on
that location, got under the surface of the Lookout, which was
then owned by-the Eureka company. Controversies arose between the two companies as to their rights under their respective claims, which resulted, on the 16th of June, 1873, in a
compromise, by which a dividing line was established, and the
Eureka company agreed to convey to the Richmond all the
mining ground and claim lying on the northwesterly side of this
line, including the Lookout claim, and all veins, lodes, &c., and
not to protest against any application by the Richmond coin-

Oce. 1880.]

RICHMOND MINING CO. v. EUREKA MINING Co.

843

pany for a patent for the Richmond or other claims, provided
such applications did not cross the line which was fixed. The
Richmond company agreed to convey to the Eureka, with warranty against its own acts, all its right, title, and interest in
and to the mining ground situated on the southeasterly side of
the line, and in and to all ores, precious metals, veins, lodes,
ledges, deposits, dips, spurs, or angles on, in, or under the land
or mining ground, or any part thereof. Then follows in the
agreement this clause: "It being the object and intention of
the said parties hereto to confine the workings of the said
party of the second part [Richmond company] to the northwesterly side of the said line continued downward to the centre
of the earth, which line is hereby agreed upon as the permanent boundary line between the claims of the said parties."
The line thus established was described as follows: "Commencing on the northeasterly corner of the Margaret mining
ground or claim. . . .running thence in a southeasterly direction along the edge of said Margaret ground, the At Last
ground, and the Champion ground, to a point marked W on
the map; thence southerly along the edge of said Champion
ground to the northeasterly corner of the Nuget ground, and
thence along the edge of the Nuget ground to the northwesterly corner thereof." The point W was at the beginning of
the triangular piece of ground conveyed by the Eureka to the
Richmond in 1871, and from there to the Nuget ground the
line was the boundary between that triangle and the Champion.
Deeds were executed to perfect the conveyances contemplated
by this agreement, and on the 30th of April, 1874, the Richmond company got a patent for its Richmond claim as surveyed, " embracing a portion of the unsurveyed public domain,
with the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all
the land included within the exterior lines of said survey not
herein expressly excepted from these presents, and of five hundred and one and one-half (5011) lineal feet of the said Richmond vein, lode, ledge, or deposit, for the length hereinbefore
described throughout its entire depth, although it may enter
the land adjoining; and also of all other veins, lodes, ledges,
or deposits throughout their entire depths, the tops or apexes of

844

RICHMOND MINING CO. V. EUREKA MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

which lie inside the exterior boundary lines of said survey at
the surface, extended downward vertically, although such veins,
lodes, ledges, or deposits in their downward course may so
far depart from a perpendicular as to extend outside the vertical side lines of said survey: Provided, that the right of
possession hereby granted to such outside parts of said
veins, lodes, ledges, or deposits shall be confined to such
portions thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downward through the end lines of said survey at the surface, so
continued in their own direction that such vertical planes will
intersect such exterior parts of said veins, lodes, ledges, or deposits."
Before this time, on the 16th of July, 1872, the Eureka
company got a similar patent for the Champion claim., and
afterwards, on the 12th of December, 1876, for the At Last
and the Nuget. This suit was begun on the 27th of March,
1877, and on the 80th of the same month the Eureka obtained
a similar patent for the Margaret.
The Richmond company is also the owner of the Arctic and
Utah claims, the first filed for record Oct. 4,1876, and the last,
Jan. 7, 1877.
The particular mining ground in dispute is situated within
the zone of limestone which has been described, and within
planes drawn vertically down through the end lines of the
Champion claim as patented to the Eureka company, and
within planes drawn vertically down through the extreme
points of the patented locations of the At Last and the Mar
garet claims, at right angles to the course or strike of the
zone, and produced so as to follow its dip. The top or apex
of the zone is within the surface lines of the patents to the
Eureka company, and the zone dips at right angles to its
course, and on such a dip extends under the surface of the
Arctic and Utah claims. The property also lies on the southeasterly side of the compromise line agreed on in the settlement of June 16, 1873, extended vertically downward so as to
follow the dip of the zone. The end lines of the surveys of
the At Last and Margaret claims, as patented, are not parallel
with each other.
The subjoined diagram represents the surface location of the

Oct. 1880.]

RICHMOND MINING CO.

v.

EUREKA MINING

Co. 84b

respective claims. The dividing line established by the agreement of June 16, 1873, is that marked X. W. R.
111r. 'anzuel3. Wilson and Air. Thomas Wren for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Harrl I. Thornton, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the facts set forth in the preceding statement we have
had no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that the judgment
of the court below, sustaining the title of the Eureka company,
was right. To our minds there cannot be a doubt that the compromise line was intended to fix permanently the boundary between the mining properties of the two companies at that point.
The Richmond was to confine its workings to the north and
west of the line, and the Eureka to the south and east. The
Eureka had already got its patent for the Champion claim,
which must have been older than the Richmond, for the Richmond location was bounded on the Champion, and by this
patent was permitted to follow throughout their entire depth
all veins, lodes, ledges, and deposits, the tops or apexes of which
came to the surface within the lines of its survey. It is evident, also, that the Richmond company was seeking a similar
patent for its Richmond claim, as by the terms of the settlement the Eureka was to withdraw its opposition, and in due
time such a patent was obtained. The Eureka company also
pushed forward its applications for patents to its other claims,
and in the end got them all in the same form and with grants of
the same privileges. In this way the companies secured from
the United States the right to work the entire metal-bearing
rock from the quartzite to the shale between the end lines
of their patented surveys extended downwards and following
the dip of the mineralized limestone zone. Their patents are
all alike and their rights under them the same, save only that
the Eureka is confined in its operations to the southeasterly
side, and the Richmond to the northwesterly side of the agreed
line.
In establishing this line it is to be presumed that the parties
had in view the peculiar character of the property about which

846

RICHMOND MINING C0.

V. EUREKA MINING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

they had been contending. They were settling, as between
themselves, their rights to mining property and for the purpose
of carrying on mining operations in that locality. They must
have known perfectly well from the observations they had
already made, that but a small part of the immense mineral
deposit in that zone would probably be found between the exposed surface of the limestone and the quartzite immediately
underneath. What they wanted was to fix as between themselves their rights in following what is called in the findings
"the zone of metamorphosed limestone," so as to reach the anticipated deposits in the depths below. A compromise which
only settled their controversies to what was directly under the
surface would not have accomplished this. The Richmond
wanted to be relieved from all embarrassments in getting under
the Lookout, and it is to be presumed the Eureka wanted similar privileges under the surface for the Champion and its other
claims. For this purpose the parties had to secure the necessary grants from the United States, and the fair inference from
what was done is that the Eureka was not to be interfered
with in getting what it could on the south and east of the line,
and the Richmond was to have the same privilege on the north
and west.
The language used is to be construed with reference to the
peculiar property about which the parties were contracting.
Whether the limestone was or was not within the meaning
of the acts of Congress and the understanding of miners, a
single vein, lode, or ledge, it was all mineralized or metal-bearing rock as distinguished from the barren walls in which it
was enclosed. It descended into the earth on an angle, and
unless parties in working it could follow its course as it went
down they could not avail themselves to the full extent of the
wealth it contained. When, therefore, we find parties contending about their rights to its possession and finally agreeing on
a line of division between themselves which shall be continued
downwards towards the centre of the earth, the conclusion
is irresistible that the line was to be extended downwards
through the property in its course towards the centre of the
earth. Anything less than this would make their settlement
a mere temporary expedient to get rid of a present difficulty

Oct. 1880.]

RICHMOND MINING Co. v. EUREKA MINING CO.

847

and leave their most important rights as much in dispute as
ever. Such, we cannot believe, was the understanding.
This disposes of the case. The Richmond company is in no
condition to dispute the validity of the Eureka's patents for
the At Last and the Mlargaret because the end lines of the surveys are not parallel, as it has agreed with the Eureka, for a
consideration, not to work in the limestone to the south and
east of the compromise line. Upon the face of the patents the
United States has granted to the Eureka the right to all veins,
lodes, and deposits the tops or apexes of which lie on the inside
of its surveys as patented, throughout their entire depth and
wherever they may go, provided it keeps itself within the end
lines of the surveys. The finding that the ground in dispute
is within the end lines and that the apex is within the surface
lines settles the rights of the parties between themselves as
well under their patents as under their compromise agreement.
Judgment affirmed.

