Oct.

18S0.j

BONDURANT

BONDURANT

2). WATSON.

V. WATSON.

i. This court enforces, as a rule of property applicable to Louisiana, the decision of the Supreme Court of that State, that a mortgage of lands has no
effect as to third persons, unless it be inscribed in the proper public office,
and that, save in the single case of a minor's mortgage upon the property
of his tutor, every mortgage ceases to be effectual against third parties,
unless it be reinscribed within ten years from the date of its original
inscription, and that neither the pact de non alienando nor the pendency of
a suit to foreclose dispenses with the necessity of so inscribing or reinscribing it.
2. A., a citizen of Louisiana, filed a bill in a court of that State, praying for an
injunction to restrain B., who had recovered judgment against C. in that
court, and sued out thereon afierifa ias, from levying the writ upon a tract
of land whereof A. was the owner and actual possessor by a good and valid
title from C. The judgment declares that an authentic act of mortgage,
executed by C. and covering that and other tracts, was rendered executory,
and that all the lands should be seized to satisfy it. The act was not reinscribed. A. was not a party to the judgment, nor was any demand made
of, or notice given to, him. B. was a citizen of Mississippi, and filed a petition for the removal of the suit. Held, that the amount in controversy
being sufficient, the suit was removable, under the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, 18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470.
3. The citizenship of the parties need not be averred in the petition for removal
where it is shown by the record.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Samuel R. Walker for the appellant.

Mr. Edwin T. Jlerriclc and Mr. George

. Race, contra.

MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
Daniel Bondurant died seised of a large plantation in the
parish of Tensas, in the State of Louisiana. His estate descended to his three sons, Albert, Horace, and John, and to
Walter E. Bondurant, his infant grandson.
In 1852, upon petition of the sons for a partition of the
plantation, a decree of sale was made, under which it was sold,
and struck off to them for the price of $150,000. Of thii
sum, Walter, the grandson, was entitled to one-fourth, namely,

f37,500.

BONDURANT V. WATSON.

[Sup. Ct.

The sheriff, on Dec. 4, 1858, executed a deed to the sons,
reserving therein a special mortgage and privilege on the lands
in favor of Walter E. Bondurant for his share of the purchasemoney.
In the act of sale, which was executed both by the sheriff
and the purchasers, the latter bound themselves not to alienate,
deteriorate, or incumber the property to the prejudice of the
mortgage, an agreement known in the local jurisprudence of
Louisiana as the pact de non alienando. The mortgage was
recorded Dec. 6, 1852. The law of Louisiana required it to be
reinscribed within ten years from that date. It was not reinscribed until September, 1865. The three sons of Daniel
Bondurant divided the plantation between them. The part
which is in controversy in this suit was set off to John Bondurant, who, in 1854, conveyed it to one Augustus C. Watson,
Sen.
On Jan. 30, 1866, Walter E. Bondurant began an action
against his uncles, Albert, Horace, and John Bondurant, in the
District Court for the Parish of Tensas, to recover judgment
against them for his part of the purchase price of said plantation, and to enforce his mortgage and privilege thereon. The
court rendered a judgment in his favor for the sum of 37,500,
with interest, and ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the authentic act of mortgage, which was the basis of the action,
should be, and the same was thereby, rendered executory and
ordered to be executed, and that the land described therein
should be seized and sold to satisfy said judgment.
Upon this judgment a fieri facias was issued, directed to the
sheriff of the parish. By virtue thereof he advertised for sale
the plantation described in the mortgage, and struck off and
sold it to Walter E. Bondurant, and executed to him a deed
therefor.
Walter E. Bondurant thereupon brought an action in the
United States Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana
against Augustus C. Watson, Sen., to recover possession of that
part of the plantation which had been sold to him by John
Bondurant.
He recovered judgment for the land against Watson. That
judgment was taken, by writ of error, to the Supreme Court of

Oct. 1880.]

BONDURANT V. WATSON.

the United States, where it was reversed on the sole ground
that there had been no actual seizure of the premises by the
sheriff before the sale. See Watson v. Bondurant, 21 Wall.
123.
In the mean time Walter E. Bondurant died. The judgment
in his favor in the District Court for the Parish of Tensas was
revived in the name of his widow, Ella F. Bondurant, his testamentary executrix and the tutrix of his minor son.
At her instance another fiei facias was issued on the judgment of the District Court for the Parish of Tensas, and placed
in the hands of the sheriff of that parish. By virtue of the
writ he seized that part of the plantation which had been sold
to Augustus C. Watson, Sen., and advertised the same fo sale.
Thereupon Frank Watson, the appellee, on June 25, 1875, filed
his petition in the District Court for the Parish of Tensas
against the sheriff and Ella F. Bondurant, executrix and tutrix.
He averred that his "immediate author," Augustus C. Watson,
Sen., acquired the land in question by a good and valid title
translative of property from John Bondurant, on Nov. 30,
1854; that said Augustus 0. Watson, Sen., held said lands by
notorious public and uninterrupted possession, in good faith as
owner, from Nov. 30, 1854, until Aug. 5, 1872, when he transferred his title and possession, by deed of that date, to the petitioner, Frank Watson, and his brother, A. C. Watson, Jr., and
that by deed dated Feb. 6, 1875, A. C. Watson, Jr., conveyed
all his estate in said land to the petitioner, Frank Watson.
He further averred that the sheriff of Tensas Parish, acting
under a writ of alias ft. fa. issued on the said judgment recovered by Walter E. Bondurant against Albert, John, and Horace
Bondurant in the District Court of said parish, had illegally
seized the tract of land which was held and claimed by the
petitioner under the deeds of conveyance already mentioned,
and would advertise and sell the same, unless restrained by
injunction.
The petition further alleged that said act of Dec. 4, 1854,
which reserved the mortgage and privilege on said plantation
in favor of Walter E. Bondurant for $37,500 had not been reinscribed within ten years from the date of its original registry
in the mortgage records, and it had, therefore, ceased to have

BONDURANT V. WATSON.

[Sup. C .

any force or effect as a mortgage and privilege on said tract of
land; that at the time of the institution of the suit of said
Walter and others, in which the judgment was recovered
by virtue of which said fieri facias was issued, said Augustus
C. Watson, Sen., was and for many years previous bad been in
public possession of said property as owner, yet he was not
made a party to said suit, which was via ordinaria,nor were
any demands or notices given him as third possessor.
The petition, therefore, claimed that the seizure of the prop
erty by the sheriff was illegal, and prayed an injunction against
Ella F. Bondurant, executrix and tutrix, and against the sheriff, restraining them from proceeding any further with the said
writ of fieri facias, so far as it related to the lands claimed by
the petitioner.
The injunction prayed for was granted by the court in which
the petition was filed, after notice to the sheriff and Mrs.
Bondurant.
Thereupon, on Oct. 18, 1875, Mrs. Bondurant filed her petition, verified by her oath, in which she prayed for a removal of
the cause to the United States Circuit Court for the District of
Louisiana. In her petition she averred that she was a citizen
of the State of Mississippi, and was, in her capacity as tutrix
and executrix, defendant in a civil suit pending in that court,
in which the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of costs, the
sum of $500, and in which Frank Watson, who was a citizen
of Louisiana, was plaintiff.
This petition was accompanied by a bond in the penal sum
of $250, conditioned according to law, and executed by the petitioner and two sureties.
The petition for removal was denied by the State court.
Nevertheless Mrs. Bondrant, within the time required by law,
filed in the United States Circuit Court a transcript of the proceedings of the State court, beginning with the issuing of the
fieri facias, which the petition of Watson was filed to enjoin.
The Circuit Court took jurisdiction of the case and directed
it to be placed on the equity side of the docket. Thereupon
Mrs. Bondurant filed her answer and amended answer, to which
the petitioner, Watson, filed his replication. Upon the issue
thus made, voluminous proofs were taken, and upon final hear.

Oct. 1880.]

BONDURANT V. WATSON.

iug the Circuit Court made perpetual the injunction which had
been granted by the State court. That decree is now here on
appeal taken by the defendant, Mrs. Bondurant.
The District Court for the Parish of Tensas, claiming that
the cause still remained in that court, notwithstanding the
attempt of the defendant to remove it to the United States
Circuit Court, proceeded with the cause to final hearing, and
also made perpetual the injunction which it had granted. This
decree was affirmed on appeal by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. See JVaton v. Boa durant, 30 La. Ann. 1, pt. 1.
The defendant brought up that decree also by writ of error
to this court.
By agreement of counsel, the records in both cases have been
submitted and argued together. Watson, the complainant in
b'th cases, claimed that the suit was not a removable one, and
tha t.ere was no effectual removal thereof to the Circuit
Court, and that the State courts alone had jurisdiction. The
defendant denied the jurisdiction of the State court, and insisted that the ease was a removable one, and had been removed
to the Circuit Court, which thereafter alone had jurisdiction.
The case brought here from the State Supreme Court having
been dismissed for want of a writ of error (see Bondurant, TutrLx, v. Watson, supra, p. 278), it becomes necessary to decide
the question of jurisdiction.
On this question the first contention of Watson, the complainant, is that the petition of Mrs. Bondurant for the removal
of the case, which was filed Oct. 18, 1875, does not aver that
at the commencement of the suit, which was June 25, 1875.
she was a citizen of the State of Mississippi.
Whether, under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, to regulate
the removal of causes from the State courts, such an averment
is necessary, is a question which was expressly reserved by this
court in the case of insurance Company v. Peckner (95 U. S.
183), and which it has never decided. We do not find it necessary to decide it now, for the evidence in the record satisfies us
that Mrs. Bondurant was a citizen of Mississippi on June 25,
1875, when the proceeding against her was begun by Watson.
Whether the petition avers the fact or not is immaterial, pro.
vided the fact is shown to exist by any part of the record,

BONDURANT

V. WATSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Gold-.Washing and Water Company v. Keyes, 96 id. 199; Brige3
v. Sperry, 95 id. 401; Bobertson v. Cease, 97 id. 646.
The record shows that her husband, of whose will she was
the executrix, was at the time of his death, and for many years
before had been, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, residing
at Natchez. She was, therefore, a citizen of Mississippi at the
time of her husband's death, which took place before the filing
by Watson of the petition in this case, on June 25, 1875. In
October, 1875, she swears that she was then a citizen of Mississippi. At and before that time she had been sojourning with
her father in New Orleans, but, as the record indicates, her
residence there was transient and temporary, and with a purpose, declared at the time, of retaining her citizenship in Mississippi. She could not lose her citizenship in Mississippi
without a change of residence animo manendi, and her purpose
was better known to herself than to any one else.
The fact that Mrs. Bondurant took out letters testamentary
on the will of her husband in the parish of Tensas without giving bond, as she would have been required to do had she been
a non-resident of the State, does not, in our judgment, overcome her affidavit that she was a citizen of Mississippi, and the
presumption that, having once been a citizen of that State, her
citizenship continued. The proceedings in the Probate Court
of Tensas Parish were conducted entirely by her attorney, and
their details were not necessarily known to her.
We think the fact of her citizenship in Mississippi, at the
time of the commencement of Watson's suit against her, sufficiently appears by the record, and this supplies the want of an
averment of the fact in her petition for the removal of the case.
The next claim of Watson is, that the suit removed was
merely auxiliary and incidental to the original case of Walter E.
Bondurant v. Albert .Bondurant and Others, and was not, therefore, removable.
In this view we do not concur. The case which was removed
had all the elements of a suit in equity. The petition filed in
the State court sought equitable relief, which no court strictly
a court of law could grant. Citations were issued and served
upon the defendants. When the case was transferred to the
',ircuit Court, it was placed on the equity side of the docket.

Oct. 1880.]

BONDURANT 0. WATSON.

An answer and a replication were filed, testimony was taken,
and a decree made upon final hearing according to the equity
practice. The controversy in the original cause between Wal
ter E. Bondurant and Albert Bondurant and others had been
ended by a final judgment. The case between Watson and
Mrs. Bondurant had its origin in that judgment, but it was
a new and independent suit between other parties and upon
new issues. It was a suit in which the plaintiff sought to be
protected against a judgment, to which he was not a party,
by which his property had been specifically condemned to
be sold to satisfy a claim against others, and not against
him.
He insisted that the mortgage on which the judgment was
founded was not a lien on the property claimed by him. To
prevent being turned out of possession of his own land, an I a
cloud being cast on his title by a seizure and sale under the
judgment of the State court was the purpose of his suit. It
could not be called incidental or auxiliary to the original case.
It was a new and independent controversy between other parties. It filled all the requisites of the law for the removal of
causes. It was a suit of a civil nature in equity, in which the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum or value
of .500, and in which there was a controversy between citizens
of different States.
No reason is perceived why a party to such a controversy
-hould not enjoy his constitutional right of having his case
tried by a court of the United States.
The case of Blk v. Turnbull & Co. (16 Wall. 190), relied
on by the appellee, is not in point. That was a statutory proceeding to try in a summary way the title to personal property
seized on execution. It was nothing more than a method prescribed by the law to enable the court to direct and control its
own process, and, as decided by this court, was merely auxiliary
to, and a graft upon, the original action.
It is next claimed that the case was not removable because
its purpose was to obtain the writ of injunction to stay proceedings in a State court, which a court of the United States is
forbidden to grant by sect. 720 of the Revised Statutes.
It is to be observed that the injunction had already been

BONDURANT V. WATSON.

[Sup. Ot

granted by the State court before the application for removal
was made. The interest and purpose or Mrs. Bondurant, who
asked for the removal, was to get the injunction dissolved. If
Watson had filed his petition for injunction in the State court,
and before it was allowed had petitioned for a removal of the
cause to the Circuit Court, with the design of applying to that
court for his injunction, the objection to the right of removal
would have force. That would have been an evasion of the
statute. But that is not this case.
The act of March 3, 1875, provides that all injunctions had
in the suit before its removal, shall remain in full force and
effect until dissolved or modified by the court to which the suit
shall be removed. It provides for removals, without making
any exception, of cases in which an injunction has already been
allowed to stay proceedings in a State court. It would not be
according to the well-settled rules of statutory construction to
import an exception into this statute from a prior one on a different subject.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the case was one removable under the act of March 3, 1875, and that the Circuit Court
obtained jurisdiction by the proceedings for its removal.
The merits of the case have been conclusively settled by the
Stipreme Court of Louisiana.
Watson, the plaintiff, claimed that the parcel of land conveyed to him by John Bondurant was freed from the lien of
the mortgage to Walter Bondurant, by the failure of the latter
to have it reinscribed within the ten years from the date of its
original registry.
The contention of the defendant, Mrs. Bondurant, is that reinscription was not necessary to preserve the lien of the mortgage on Watson's land, because he was charged with notice by
the pact de non alienando contained in the mortgage, and because the mortgagee, Walter E. Bondurant, being a minor, the
mortgage to him did not require reinscription to preserve its
lien.
These questions have been settled against the appellant by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
That court has decided that, under the positive law of Louisiana, as contained in the code and statutes, nothing supplies

Oct. l60.]

1 .',AJ1I.1NA V. UNITED STATES.

the place of registry, or dispenses with it, so far as those are
concerned who are not parties to the mortgage, and that when
ten years have elapsed from the date of inscription without
reinscription, the mortgage is without effect as to all persons
whomsoever who are not parties to the mortgage. Adams & Co.
v. Daun s, 29 La. Ann. 315, and cases there cited.
In the case of Watson v. Bondurant (30 La. Ann. 1, pt. 1),
the same court held that no mortgage has any effect as to
third persons unless recorded; and, save in the single case of a
minor's mortgage on the property of his tutor, every mortgage
ceases to have effect, except as to the parties to it, unless reinscribed within ten years from the date of its original inscription, and that neither the existence of the pact de non alienando
in a mortgage, nor the pendency of a suit to foreclose the same,
obviates the necessity of its inscription or reinscription.
The decisions above cited, establishing as they do a rule of
real property in the State of Louisiana, are binding on this
court, and are conclusive of this case. Suydam v. Williamson,
24 How. 427; Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 162; Beauregardv.
CYity of -,ew Orleans, 18 How. 497.
The decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be affirmed,
and it is
So ordered.

LouisA.wA v. UNITED STATES.
In addition to the tax of one and one-half per cent, authorized by sect. 2. art. 3,
of her charter, the city of Louisiana, Mo., may, by mandamus, be compelled
to levy, assess, and collect a special tax, not exceeding one per cent per
annum, to pay a judgment rendered against her, whereon an execution has
been issued and returned nulla bona.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J11r. David P. Dyer for the plaintiff in error.
M1r. fJoIn D. S. Dryden for the defendant in error.
VoL. wnx.

19

