WALL V. OOUNTY OP MONtO

t.tsup.

(Jr.

this no exception was taken. As we think the court was right
in this, the charge asked by the district attorney was properly
rejected.
The difficulty seems to have grown out of the use of a form
of bond framed under a statute which had been repealed.
Objection is made to the admission of two pieces of evidence
designed to show that Hough had applied the credit due him
as disbursing agent to the extinguishment of the balance due
from him as stamp agent. The objection is not made to the
pertinency of the evidence, but to the fact that it was not presented for allowance as a credit to the proper accounting officer
of the treasury and rejected, as provided in sect. 951, Revised
Statutes.
The answer to this is that the claim itself had been allowed
by the proper accounting officer of the treasury, and the point
in issue was as to the application of the sum so allowed to one
of two distinct claims of the government against him. To
such a case the section has no application.
Though there may have been many errors committed in the
trial of this case, there are none so presented by the record
that we can correct them.
Judgment affirmed.

WALL V. COUNTY OF MONROE.
1. A county in Arkansas, when sued on its warrants by a bnazfide holder thereof
for value, may set up any defence to which they were subject in the hands
of the original payee.
2. The same rule is applicable where the warrants are issued to the payee, in lieu
of others in his favor cancelled by the county court, after it found them to
be just claims against the county.
3. Neither the order directing the issue of the original warrants, nor that cancelling them and substituting others in their place, has the force of a judicial
determination concluding either the payee of them or the county.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
This is an action upon the warrants of the county of Monroe, Arkansas, which were drawn by the clerk of the county

Oct. 1880.]

'WALL V.COUNTY OF MONROE.

upon its treasurer, in favor of one Frank Gallagher, and transferred by him to the plaintiff.
The following is a copy of one of them. The others are of
like tenor and effect, though some of them are for only $20.
[No. 804.
" 50.]
The treasurer of the county of Monroe will pay to Frank Gali:igher or bearer the sum of fifty dollars, out of any money in the
11easury for general county purposes and not otherwise approp~riatte.

"Given under my hand, at office, in Clarendon, Ark., this fifteenth
day of September, 1875.
" W. S. Du-LAP, Clerk."
They were renewal warrants, drawn in lieu of others which,
under the laws of Arkansas, had been called in by the county
court for examination, registration, and reissue. The called-in
warrants, having been found to be just and legal claims against
the county, were cancelled by order of the court, and the clerk
was directed to issue new warrants in lieu thereof to the original payee, Frank Gallagher.
The new warrants were purchased in good faith for a valuable consideration by the plaintiff, who, on the refusal of the
treasurer to pay them on demand, instituted this action. The
answer sets up as a defence that said Gallagher was, at the time
the warrants were issued to him, indebted to the county as
surety on the official bond of one Ambrose Gallagher, taxcollector of the county, in a sum larger than the amount sued
for; that since then the county has recovered a judgment
against the said Frank Gallagher for a much larger amount
than the warrants in suit; that the judgment was recovered
before the transfer of the warrants to the plaintiff, and has not
been reversed or modified, and is still in full force and unsatisfied; and it asks that the judgment may be set off against the
warrants. The plaintiff demurred to the answer, alleging as
the cause of demurrer that its allegations were not sufficient to
constitute a defence at law.
Upon the argument of the demurrer the following questions
arose: -

.i,..t,
Is the defendant estopped by the reissue of the war-

WALt 'V. COUNTY OF MONROE.

[Sup. at.

rants to set up a defence known to have been existing at the
time they were reissued in lieu of the original warrants surrendered to the county court, and by its order cancelled?
Second, Can the claim set up in the answer, if held by the
county against the original payee when the warrants were
issued or while they were still in his possession, be set up as
defence or set-off in a suit by a holder of them for value, who
had no notice of such defence when he acquired them ?
On which questions the opinions of the judges were opposed,
and the demurrer having been overruled, final judgment was
rendered for the defendant.
Whereupon, upon motion of the plaintiff, the points on
which the disagreement happened were stated under the direction of the judges, and certified to this court for final decision.
T. Sanders for the plaintiff in error.
31r.
rll.
Under the law of Arkansas, the warrants which are the
foundation of this suit are negotiable instruments. Rev. Stat.,
sects. 602, 603, 605; Crauford County v. Wilson, 7 Ark. 214;
6'arnall v. Crawford County, 11 id. 604; Gunn v. Pulaski
(Jounty, 3 id. 427; Adamson v. Adamson, 9 id. 26; Brem v.
Arkansas County Court, id. 241; Reiff v. Conner, 10 id. 241;
Jefferson County v. Hudson, 22 id. 595.
.Sect. 27, art. 7, of the Constitution of the State gives to
the county court exclusive original jurisdiction in the local
concerns of the county. It is a court of record. Its judgment
allowing demands against the county, and directing the issue
of a warrant for their payment, merges them and all preexisting equities between the parties, and cannot be collaterally impeached.
The transferee of the warrants sued on must be treated as
the assignee of the judgment pursuant to which they were
issued. A defence which might have been made available
against the original claim cannot be set up in an action on the
judgment. Noble v. Merrill,48 Me. 140; Guinardv. ifeysinger,
15 Ill. 288; Flintv. Sheldon, 13 Mass. 443; Eillis v. Clarke, 19
Ark. 420.
The defence here does not arise out of the transaction in
which the warrants, all of which bear date in 1875, were issued.
It rests upon a claim of the county against the original payee,

Oct. 1880.]

WALL V. COUNTY OF MONROE.

who was a surety of the defaulting county tax-collector for the
year 1872. Conceding that they are of no higher grade than
bills of exchange or promissory notes negotiated after maturity,
the county could not avail itself of the defence set up.
The indorsee of an overdue negotiable note takes it subject
to all the equities which attached to it in the hands of the
payee, if they are connected with the note itself, but not to
such as grow out of distinct and independent transactions.
lVationad Bank of W|1.hinyton. v. Texas, 20 Wall. 72, 89 ; Oulds
v. Harrison, 10 Exch. Rep. 572; Burrowuh v. Mloss, 10 Barn.
& Cress. 558; leniwvle v. 11illiams, 2 Md. 356.
Mr. Augustus H. Garland, contra.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The warrants in suit are evidences of indebtedness by the
county of Monroe, issued by that branch of its government to
which is intrusted, by the laws of the State, the examination
and approval of claims against the county. They are orders
upon the treasurer of the county to pay out of its funds for
county purposes, not otherwise appropriated, the amounts
specified. They establish, prima facie, the validity of the
claims allowed and authorize their payment. But they have
no other effect. Their issue determined nothing as to other
demands of the payee against the county, or of the county
against him.. Had there been other claims to be adjusted and
settled between the parties, these warrants, if lawfully issued,
would have been taken as approved items in the accountnothing more.
The watrants being in form negotiable, are transferable by
delivery so far as to authorize the holder to demand payment
of them and to maintain, in his own name, an action upon
them. But they are not negotiable instruments in the sense of
the law merchant, so that, when held by a bonafide purchaser,
evidence of their invalidity or defences available against the
original payee would be excluded. The transferee takes them
subject to all legal and equitable defences which existed to
them in the hands of *such payee.
There has been a great number of decisions in the courts of
the several States upon instruments of this kind, and there is

WALL V. COUNTY OF MONROE.

[Snp. Ct,

little diversity of opinion respecting their character. All the
courts agree that the instruments are mere primafacie and not
conclusive evidence of the validity of the allowed claims against
the county by which they' were issued. The county is not
estopped from questioning the legality of the claims; and
when this is conceded the instruments conclude nothing as to
other demands between the parties. The cases will be found
collected in notes to the fourteenth chapter of Dillon on Municipal Corporations. The law respecting these instruments is
also fully stated by this court in Mayor v. Bay, reported in
the 19th of Wallace. That case was upon warrants of a city
and not of a county, a circumstance which does not affect the
doctrine. The court, speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley,
said: "Vouchers for money due, certificates of indebtedness
for services rendered, or for property furnished for the uses of
the city, orders or drafts drawn by one city officer upon another, or any other device of the kind, used for liquidating the
amounts legitimately due to public creditors, are, of course,
necessary instruments for carrying on the machinery of municipal administration, and for anticipating the collection of
taxes. But to invest such documents with the character and
incidents of commercial paper, so as to render them in the
hands of bona fide holders absolute obligations to pay, however
rregular or fraudulently issued, is an abuse of their true character and purpose." And again: "Every holder of a city
order or certificate knows that, to be valid and genuine at all,
it must have been issued as a voucher for city indebtedness.
It could not be lawfully issued for any other purpose. He
must take it, therefore, subject to the risk that it has been lawfully and properly issued. His claim to be a bona fide holder
will always be subject to this qualification. The face of the
paper itself is notice to him that its validity depends upon the
regularity of its issue. The officers of the city have no authority to issue it for any illegal or improper purpose, and their
acts cannot create an estoppel against the city itself, its taxpayers, or people. Persons receiving it from them know
whether it is issued, and whether they ieceive it for a proper
purpose and a proper consideration. Of course they are affected by the absence of these essential ingredients; and all

Oct. 1880.]

WALL V. COUNTY OF MONROE.

subsequent holders take cum onere, and are affected by the
same defect." These observations apply equally to the county
warrants in suit, as to the city warrants there considered.
And the same reasons which deny to them negotiability in the
sense of the law merchant, allow any matter of set-off to them
which the county held against the original parties.
The case of (&"aujfad Connty v. Wilson, in the Supreme
Curt of Arkansas, is cited as showing that a different rule
prevails in that State. The language of the opinion, that
county warrants are endowed with the properties of negotiable
instruments, must be read in connection with the point involked, which was whether county warrants were transferable
by mere delivery, so as to vest the legal interest in the holder.
To this extent they may be called negotiable, but no court of
Arkansas has held that they were negotiable in the sense of
the law merchant, so as to shut out, in the hands of a bonafide
purchaser, inquiries as to their validity, or preclude defences
which could be made to them in the hands of the original
parties. The law is not different there from that which obtains in other States.
The cancellation of the warrants originally issued and the
•u!,stitution of others in their place did not change their charter. Neither that proceeding nor the original auditing of the
claims of Gallagher had the force of a judicial determination,
concluding either him or the county. There was no litigation
on the subject between adversary parties which could give to
the result any greater efficacy than the award of an ordinary
board authorized to audit claims against a municipal body.
S/drk v. Pulaski County, 4 Dill. 209.
We answer, therefore, the first question certified to us in
the negative, and the second in the affirmative, and accordingly affirm the judgment.
Judgment affrmed.

