(Jet. 1880.]

ARTHUR V. JACOBY.

this conceded, - as, perhaps, it must be, - he is confronted
not only with the fact that he was an officer of the asylum,
with a stated salary, but with an express prohibition, in the
by-laws of the institution, against his receiving under any pretence whatsoever, perquisites, fees, allowances, or advantages
other than his salary or stated pay. The evidence furnishes no
reason to suppose that the board of managers were aware of, or
ever recognized or approved the agreement of the building
committee to compensate him for special services. The sole
question, therefore, is whether the building committee had
authority to contract with an officer of the institution that he
should receive compensation or pecuniary advantages, beyond
his salary, for the services in question. They clearly had not,
and, without considering other questions argued by counsel, we
approve, for the reasons given, the instruction to find for the
defendant.
Judgment affirmed,

ARTHUR v. JACOBY.
1. A. imported certain pictures painted by hand on porcelain. When they are
framed or in any manner set, the porcelain, which, being manufactured
only as a ground upon which to obtain a good surface to paint, and not for
any independent use, is obscured from view, constitutes of itself no article
of chinaware, and forms no material part of their value. Held, that they

are subject to the duty of ten per cent ad valorem prescribed by schedule
M of sect. 2504 of the Revised Statutes, as paintings not otherwise pro-

vided for.
2. Where the bill of exceptions sets forth all the facts, and states that they
were proved, this court, if the law arising upon them is for the plaintiff,

will not reverse the judgment, because a peremptory instruction was given
to return a verdict in his favor.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Lewis Saliders and 31r. George N. Sanders, contra.

678

ARTHUR V. JACOBY.

[Sup. Cr,

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit to recover back duties paid under protest.
The bill of exceptions stated it was proven at the trial that all
the goods charged with the duties were "pictures painted by
hand, and their value depended on the skill of the particular
artist who painted them, and the porcelain ground on which
they were painted was only used to obtain a good surface on
which to paint, and was entirely obscured from view when
framed or set in any manner, and formed no material part of
the value of said painting on porcelain, and did not in itself
constitute an article of chinaware, being manufactured simply
as a ground for the painting, and not for any use independent
of the paintings." The collector exacted a duty of fifty per
cent ad valorem under the clause in schedule B, sect. 2504,
Revised Statutes, relating to "china, porcelain, and parian
ware, gilded, ornamented, or decorated in any manner," while
the importer claims they were dutiable at ten per cent ad
valorem only, under the clause in schedule M, which embraces "paintings and statuary not otherwise provided for."
In other words, the collector claimed they were decorated
china or porcelain ware, and the importer that they were paintings on china or porcelain. The evidence seems to have left
no doubt on this subject, for it is expressly stated in the bill of
exceptions to have been proved that the porcelain ground on
which the painting was done "did not in itself constitute an
article of chinaware." Such being the case, the painting which
was done on it did not make it decorated chinaware. Confessedly the goods were paintings done by hand, and as it is
not claimed they were "otherwise provided for" than as chinaware decorated, it follows the court was right in directing a
verdict in favor of the importer for the difference between ten
and fifty per cent. It is a matter of no importance in this case
that the colors used were metallic, and that the pictures were
baked to make the colors more firm. If the jury had found a
verdict in favor of the defendant, the court should have set it
aside as against what is admitted to have been proved. Under
such circumstances a judgment will not be reversed on account
of a positive instruction to find for the plaintiff. Pleasantsv
Fant, 22 Wall. 116.

Oct. 1880.]

THACHER'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

As the bill of exceptions states that the facts on which the
case depends were proved, we cannot say that the admission in
evidence of samples of "similar" importations on which duties
had been paid at ten per cent could have prejudiced the collector's case. The question which the court decided was, that
the goods were not chinaware, but paintings.
Judgment affirmed.

THAoH

's DISTILLED SPIRITS.

1. The regulation prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, that
"whenever any rectifier proposes to empty any spirits, for the purpose of
rectifying, purifying, refining, redistilling, or compounding the same, he
will file with the collector a notice or statement giving the number of
casks or packages, the serial number of each, the number of wine and
proof gallons in each, the kind of stamps and serial numbers of each, the
particular name of such spirits as known to the trade, the proof, by whom
produced, the district where produced, by whom inspected, and the date of
inspection," is within the purview of the power conferred upon that officer
by sect. Z249 of the Revised Statutes, "to prescribe rules and regulations
to secure a uniform and correct inspection, weighing, marking, and gauging
of spirits."
2. The ruling that when an act works the forfeiture of goods, the right of the
government at once attaches to seize them whenever and wherever they
may be found and assert the forfeiture, reaffirmed. Henderson's Dstilled
Spirts, 14 Wall. 44, cited and approved.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Aomas Harland for the claimant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

MR,JUSTmCE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case before us originated in an information filed in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York against
certain packages of distilled spirits by the district attorney, as
forfeited by reason of a violation of the regulations of the Corn-

