COUNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

[Sup. (it.

If the bill is not maintainable, the appellees would find themselves in precisely the same plight as if the judgment of the
United States Circuit Court in the replevin suit had been
against them, instead of for them. The judgment in their
favor would settle nothing. Instead of terminating the strife
between them and their adversaries, it would leave them under
the necessity of engaging in a new conflict elsewhere. This
would be contrary to the plainest principles of reason and
justice.
As the bill in this case is filed for the purpose of giving to
litigants on the law side of the court the substantial fruits of a
judgment rendered in their favor, it is merely auxiliary to the
suit at law, and the court has the right to enforce the judgment against the party defendant and those whom he represents, no matter how or when they may attempt to evade it or
escape its effect, unless by a direct proceeding. These views
are sustained by the case of French, Trustee, v. Hfay (22 Wall.
250), between which and this case there is no substantial difference.
We think, therefore, that the demurrer to the bill was
properly overruled.
Decree affirmed.

CouNTY oF MORGAN V. ALN.
1. Where a county subscribed to the capital stock of a railway company, and
issued its bonds therefor, the creditors of the company, on its becoming
insolvent, are entitled to enforce the liability of the county on the bonds
which are due and unpaid.
2. The court reaffirms the doctrine announced in Sawyer v. Hoag (17 Wall. 619)
and subsequent cases, that the assets of an insolvent company, including
the moneys due from a shareholder on his subscription to its capital stock,
constitute a fund for the payment of its creditors, and that he cannot, to
their prejudice, be released from his liability by any arrangement between
it and him which is not fair and honest and for a valuable consideration.
The doctrine is applicable where the debt created by the subscription of a
courty is evidenced by its bonds, and they were surrendered to it in fraud
of the rights of creditors, although the surrender was made pursuant to a
consent decree in a suit to which they were not parties.
8. In consideration of the facts and of the decisions of the Supreme Court r

Oet. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MOrGAN v. ALLEN.

Illinois, in cases involving the same question, the court holds that the sub
scription by the county court, on behalf of the county of Morgan in that
State, to the capital stock of the Illinois River Railroad Company, is valid,
and that the bonds, laving, by its order and in conformity with the terms
of its subscription, been delivered to the company, are binding upon the
county, and constitute a part of the assets of the company to which its
creditors can resort for payment.
4. The trustees named in a deed of mortgage executed by that company, to
secure the holders of its bonds, brought a foreclosure suit, and, under the
decree rendered, became the purchasers of the mortgaged property, which
they conveyed to a new company chartered by the legislature. In a suit
in a State court, to which they were made defendants, they set up that they
were entitled to the possession of the county bonds for delivery to the new
company. Hdd, that a decree against them does not estop the creditors
of the old company, who were secured by that mortgage, from asserting
their right to subject the county bonds to the payment of their claims,
the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property being insufficient for
the purpose.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
S )uthern District of Illinois.
The County Court of Morgan County, in the State of IlliInis, at its December Term, 1856, in pursuance of authority
conferred by statute (Private Laws Illinois, 1853, p. 53; id.,
1854, p. 207), and in accordance with a vote of the people at
an election previously held, entered upon its records a subscription, unconditional in form, of the sum of ,$50,000, payable in
bonds of the county, to the capital stock of the Illinois River
Railroad Company, a corporation created by the laws of Illinoib, with power to construct a railroad from Jacksonville, in
Morgan County, via the towns or cities of Virginia, Bath,
Pekin, and Lacon, to La Salle, in La Salle County. At the
same time, by an order of record, authority was given the
county judge to act in regard to such subscription as might be
necessary, according to the charter, rules, or by-laws of the
company, to perfect the same, to represent the county in voting
upon the stock, and to provide for the issuing and delivery of
the bonds as they might be required.
By an act passed Jan. 29, 1857, the vote taken was declared
to have been legally taken, and the county court was required
to subscribe the stock and to issue bonds therefor. Shortly
thereafter a subscription, unconditional in form, was made by
the proper county officers on the books of the company. The
APPEAL

COUNTY OF MORGAN

v.

ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct

bonds were not issued immediately, and application therefor
was made by 1R. S. Thomas, the president of the company. In
order to meet some objections urged against their immediate
issue, that officer (upon his own responsibility, so far as the
evidence discloses) filed with the county clerk a certificate
stating that the part of the railroad north of the town of Virginia was then in process of construction and that the part be
tween Jacksonville and Virginia was "under contract to be
completed by the 1st of December, 1858, and that it is provided in the contract for the construction of said road that the
Morgan County bonds are to be expended for work done in
Morgan County, and not elsewhere." The county court, at
its September Term, 1857, thereupon entered of record an
order, which, after reciting, among other things, the execution
of that certificate, and that the interest and advantage of the
county would be promoted by the delivery of the bonds theretofore subscribed, directed "that there be delivered to the
Illinois River Railroad Company the amount of $50,000 of the
bonds of this county of this date," &c.; also, that the certificate of stock "be deposited with the treasurer of the county
for safe keeping," &c.
The bonds were thereupon issued, and deposited by the
county judge with Elliott & Brown, bankers, for the railroad
company. The evidence is conflicting as to whether the
bankers were instructed to bold them until the further order
of the county court, or to deliver them to the company upon
receiving the certificate of stock for the county. The records
of the court indicate an absolute unconditional delivery; and
the weight of the evidence supports such a delivery.
In 1859, the bonds still being in the custody of Elliott &
Brown, the company gave Allen & McGrady, contractors,
two orders for $2,000 each for work done by them outside of
Morgan County, but payable on their face in Morgan County
bonds. These were subsequently transferred for value to William Thomas.
Vail & Ladd, creditors of the Illinois River Railroad Company, having obtained against it judgments amounting in principal and interest to $7,008.10, and sued out executions which
were returned umlla bona, instituted garnishee proceedings

Oct. '1880.]

COUNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

to obtain satisfaction of the judgments out of the bonds in
the hands of Elliott & Brown. The latter thereupon filed a
bill of interpleader in the Circuit Court of Morgan County,
against Vail & Ladd, the Illinois River Railroad Company, the
county of Morgan, Studwell, Hopkins, and Cobb (trustees in a
mortgage executed Nov. 1, 1858, by the company to secure its
bonds amounting to 1,020,000), R. S. Thomas (who held an
acknowledged debt against the company of 616,502.24, payable out of any funds belonging to the company), and William Thomas, the holder of the two orders issued to Allen &
McGrady.
By an interlocutory decree entered in that case, the bonds,
after deducting ,$200 interest coupons for charges and solicitors'
fees, were placed in the custody of Ayres & Co., to await the
further order of the court. In that suit the county denied its
liability upon the ground that no work had been done in Morgan
County, and that by agreement between it and the company
the latter was not entitled to the bonds except for work done
by it in that county. The trustees named in the trust deed of
185S, in their answer, claimed that they were entitled to hold
the bonds for the use and benefit of the Peoria, Pekin, and
Jacksonville Railroad Company as the successor of the Illinois
River Railroad Company, to be used by the former in the construction of the road in the county of Morgan, in accordance
with the alleged agreement that they should be so used. Upon
final hearing, the bills of all the parties interpleading were dismissed, but the court directed that the bonds remain in the custody of Ayres & Co. All the parties except th@ county of Morgan
took an appeal to the Supreme Court, which held: .First, That
whether the bankers had notice or not of the certificate executed
by R. S. Thomas, as president of the company, it showed an understanding, at least between the county and him, as to the use
of the bonds for work to be done in Morgan County, and his
clain, as a creditor, should not be allowed in violation of that
understanding. ,Secvand, As to the claim of William Thomas,
he was affected by the notice disclosed in the contract between
Allen & McGrady, which provided for the payment of their
claims by these bonds only for work done in Morgan County.
Tl,'d That the claims of Vail & Ladd stood upon an entirely

COUNTY OF MORGAN V. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

different footing; that they were creditors of the company for
ties furnished, and had no notice of the condition upon which the
bonds were issued; that they only knew that the county had
subscribed to the stock and issued them; that any agreement
or understanding between the company and the county, of
which they had no knowledge, and the effect of which would
be to place the bonds beyond their reach as creditors, would
be fraudulent as to them ; that the county subscription and
the absolute order of the county court directing the issue and
delivery of the bonds may have induced them to give credit to
the company; that while, as against the president and Allen
& McGrady, who had notice of the specific purpose for which
the bonds were to be used, the county might insist that the
delivery was qualified, it could not do so as to those creditors;
that, "as to them, it cannot prove that the delivery was not
as absolute as its records indicated; they. had a right to regard
the bonds as assets in the hands of the company." Fourth,
The trustees, Studwell, Hopkins, and Cobb, having failed
to assign errors, the court did not consider the propriety of
the decree as to them. Thomas et al. v. County of Morgan, 39
I1. 496.
Upon the return of that cause to the inferior State court a
decree was entered (by consent of the creditors, Vail & Ladd,
and the county) by which the county obtained possession of
its bonds of the nominal value of 817,832.18, with coupons
attached, in consideration of its paying off the judgments of
Vail & Ladd, amounting to the sum already stated. The coupons alone exceeded in amount and value the debts of those
creditors.
A suit in equity subsequently instituted by William Thomas,
as the assignee of the orders issued in favor of Allen & MeGrady, raised the question as to whether he was not entitled to
be paid out of the county bonds, inasmuch as the road had then
been finally constructed in the county by the successors of
the first company. It proceeded upon the ground that such
construction, for all the purposes for which the stock was subscribed, was equivalent to a construction by the original company. He alleged in his bill that certain judgment creditors
of the railroad company who had filed a bill in chancery in the

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MORGAN

v.

ALLEN.

Morgan Circuit Court, made as defendants thereto only the
Illinois River Railroad Company, the county of Morgan, and
Ayres & Co., for the purpose of subjecting to those judgments
the county bonds left in the custody of Ayres & Co. Although
the complainants knew he was interested in the disposition
of the bonds; that by an agreement between those creditors
and the county, which was carried into decree by a collusive
ariangement, the county, by paying only $6,000 in cash and
about E6,000 in bonds in full satisfaction of the claims of those
creditors, had received from Ayres & Co. $32,500 in nominal
value of its bonds, with coupons attached (the latter alone
exceeding the amount of the debts thus paid off), and had
cancelled the same. To the bill a demurrer was interposed
by the county, which being sustained, the bill was dismissed.
Thomas appealed to the Supreme Court of Illinois. The
case is reported as Thoras v. County of 11_"organ, 59 Ill. 479.
The court in that case, speaking by Chief Justice Breese,
said: "It is undeniable that the moving cause for the subscription,
the real motive, was the construction of the road in Morgan
C'ounty. It did not matter to the county by what particular
agencies the road should be made, -it
was sufficient that it
was made. The stipulation must be construed with reference
to its object and substance. The object was to secure the road
in Morgan County. Had the company built the road out of its
general assets, it is very certain they could have demanded the
bonds. The sense of the stipulation is, not that these identical
bonds shall pay for work done in Morgan County, but it is, if
the work is done in the county the bonds shall be delivered.
The fact that the road has been completed from Virginia to
Jacksonville is a substantial performance of the condition upon
which the bonds were issued, and the Allen & McGrady orders
for $4,000 of them, drawn by the company, which have honestly come into the possession of the appellant, operated as an
equitable transfer of so much of the county subscription from
the railroad company to the appellant."
In another part of the opinion the court said:"Upon the theory that these bonds are a trust fund in the
tustody of the court, it is the duty of the court to see that it is

COUNTY OF MORGAN V. ALLEN.

Lsup. C&

not %asted or misapplied, as the demurrer admits it has been,
in the respects alleged in the bill of complaint.
"It is not denied that the parties prosecuting that suit
agreed to receive from the county, in full satisfaction of their
claims, the sum of $6,000 in cash and $6,360 of these bonds.
There wei e then in the hands of the custodian, Ayres & Co.,
bonds of the nominal value of $32,500. These were surrendered, by the custodian, to the solicitor of the complainants in
that action, in discharge of an indebtedness of only 012,360.
This, without explanation, is a wasting and misappropriation of
the fund, which a court of chancery can and ought to correct."
The decree was reversed, with directions to require an answer
to the bill.
Upon the return of the cause the county filed an answer,
claiming that its bonds had all been cancelled except those dis
posed of pursuant to the previous decrees of the court. Thatcause was consolidated subsequently with the suit of 31forgan
C'ounty v. The Peoria,Pekin, & Jacksonville Railroad Company,
in which the county sought to recover from that company the
possession of some of the bonds which had gone wrongfully, as
claimed by the county, into its custody. From the final decree
in that case the county prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme
Court of Illinois. That case is reported as Horgan County v.
Thomas, 76 111. 120. The court re-examined the grounds of the
previous decisions, and, among other things, adjudged in that
caseFirst, That the claim of William Thomas should be sustained, not for the reason that the supposed condition upon
which the bonds were placed in the custody of Elliott & Brown
was performed, "but because no such condition, so far as the
stockholders and creditors of the Illinois River Railroad Company, including Mr. Thomas, were concerned, ever existed.
The subscription which the county court was authorized to
make for capital stock in the Illinois River Railroad Company
by the vote of the people, and the subsequent enactment of the
legislature, was not conditional, but absolute, and the subscription made pursuant to this authority was unconditional. It was
made prior to any issue of bonds, and when made, the contract
between the county on the one side and the railroad company

Odt. 1880.]

COUNTY or MORGAN v. ALLEN.

on the other was complete. The county was then legally bound
to issue and deliver its bonds to the company in conformity with
the terms of its subscription, and upon its doing so, the company
was bound to deliver to the county the requisite certificate
showing that it was the owner of the number of shares subscribed for in its capital stock. This claim for unpaid subscription then became a part of the assets of the company. Creditors
might rely upon it for payment of their debts as implicitly as
upon any other assets of the company, and this, too, although
the company, subsequently to the making of the subscription,
may have abandoned all proceedings under its charter, on account of its insolvency."
S&cond, "The subscription being absolute in its terms, and,
therefore, constituting a part of the assets of the company, R.
S. Thomas had no authority, simply as president of the company, to consent that it should become conditional; nor could
the county make such claim as a matter of right."
Third, "The Peoria, Pekin, and Jacksonville Railroad Qom
pany acquired no claim to the Morgan County bonds at the
sale under the deed of trust, because they were neither expressly nor by necessary implication included within its
terms;" that "the bonds, then, remaining as assets of the
Illinois River Railroad Company, could not have been donated
by the county to the Peoria, Pekin, and Jacksonville Railroad
Company. Nor was it competent for the legislature, by enactment, to make such donation. They were a trust fund, to be
held for the payment of the debts of the company to which
they belonged, and this, even if the failure of that corporation to exercise its corporate powers had worked its dissolution."
It thus appears that the county, by the payment of a little
over ,$19,000 to certain creditors of the Illinois River Railroad
Company, attempted, to the prejudice of other creditors, to dis
charge its own indebtedness to that insolvent corporation,
represented by bonds of the nominal value of about $50,000,
with coupons attached, the latter alone exceeding the claim of
the particular creditors thus paid off.
In pursuance of authority conferred by its charter, the Illinois River Railroad Company conveyed, by way of mortgage,

COUNTY OF MORGAN V. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

dated Nov. 1, 1858, to Alexander Studwell, Lucius Hopkins,
and George S. Cobb, as trustees, all of its corporate property,
real and personal, franchises and effects, acquired and to bs
acquired, including all rents, issues, income, profits, moneys,
rights, and advantages, derived and to be derived therefrom, in
trust to secure the payment of one thousand three hundred and
twenty bonds, aggregating the sum of $1,020,000, and payable
in New York on the first day of January, 1880, with semiannual interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum.
The deed provided that, if the company failed at any time
to meet the annual interest on the bonds, all of them might be
treated as matured obligations, and the mortgaged property, in
that event, should be surrendered to the trustees, to be owned,
operated, and held for the use and benefit of the holders of the
bonds.
The company failed to pay the interest when due, after having constructed only the part of the road between Pekin, in
Tazewell County, and Virginia, in Cass County. Its board of
directors, at a meeting held on the 12th of July, 1862, ordered
a surrender of the mortgaged property to the trustees. It then
suspended all further operations, and ceased to discharge its
functions. The trustees took possession by an agent, and, on
the 17th of December, 1862, instituted a suit for foreclosure in
the court below.
By an act of assembly passed June 11, 1863, Studwell, Hopkins, and Cobb, trustees, and Allen, Arnold, and Trowbridge,
holders of the bonds secured by the deed of trust, and their
associates, who should thereafter become purchasers of the
mortgaged property under any decree of foreclosure, were constituted a corporation, under the name of the Peoria, Pekin,
and Jacksonville Railroad Company, with power to purchase
that property, and, upon receiving a proper transfer thereof, to
have and be vested with all the corporate powers, privileges,
immunities, and franchises theretofore given or granted to the
Illinois River Railroad Company.
A final decree was rendered in the foreclosure suit, from
which it appears that the principal and interest, then due and
unpaid, of the bonds was $1,419,666. A sale thereunder was
made on tbe 1st of October, 1863, to Allen, Arnold, and Trow

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

bridge, at the price of $400,000, and was duly confirmed. A
further decree was entered in June, 1864, against the company
for the sum of $1,061,292.56, the balance then due upon the
debt after crediting the proceeds of sale.
Shrtly before the last decree the purchasers at the sale conveyed and transferred the railroad, franchises, and property of
the company to the Peoria, Pekin, and Jacksonville Railroad
Company, which thereafter completed the road from Virginia,
in Cass County, to Jacksonville.
The present suit in equity was instituted by Allen, Arnold,
and Trowbridge, the holders jointly of all the bonds secured by
the trust deed, and, therefore, the equitable owners of the decree in the foreclosure suit, for the purpose mainly of subjecting to that decree such amount as was due from the county of
Morgan upon its subscription, to the capital stock of the Illinois River Railroad Company. The bill proceeds upon the
ground that the bonds issued for the subscription were a part
of the assets of that corporation, constituting a trust fund to
which its creditors could resort for the satisfaction of their
debts. Before the commencement of this suit the county had
obtained possession of and destroyed or cancelled its bonds. It
denied all liability to the complainants, as creditors of the company, by reason of the alleged subscription, or upon any other
ground. The complainants contended that the county obtained
possession of the bonds in fraud of their rights as creditors of
the company, and that, to the extent it had not, in fact, paid
the amount due upon the bonds given for the subscription, but
remained, notwithstanding their cancellation, liable to the
creditors of the company. In that view the court concurred,
and having ascertained through a master that there was due
from the county, principal and interest, on its original subscription of $50,000 in bonds, the sum of $72,539.56, after allowing
all payments theretofore made by it to creditors of the company, a decree was rendered in favor of the complainants for
that amount. From that decree the present appeal is prosecuted by the county.
The case was argued by 3r.William Brown and Mr. William
31'. Springerfor the appellant, and by 31r. Washington H. Camp.
bell and 31r. Henry S. Greeni for the appellees.

COUNTY OP MORGAN v. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement
of the case, delivered the opinipn of the court.
The right of the creditors of the Illinois River Railroad
Company to subject to the satisfaction of their claims the
bonds issued by Morgan County for its subscription to the capital stock of the company has for many years been the subject
of litigation in Illinois.
The preceding statement mentions the cases in her supreme
court, where the history of that litigation will be found, and
summarizes the essential facts which gave rise to it. They are
numerous and complicated, and our labor in ascertaining them
with accuracy has been greatly increased by the confused condition of the transcript.
We will notice such of the questions of law, suggested by
the assignments of error, as we deem necessary to consider or
determine.
1. In Sawyer v. Hloag (17 Wall. 610), we had occasion to
consider the question whether the creditors of an insolvent
corporation were at liberty to assail a transaction between it
and its debtor, whereby his subscription of stock was withdrawn, so far as general creditors were concerned, from the
assets of the corporation. In that case we declared the doctrine to be well established, that the capital stock of a corporation, especially its unpaid subscriptions, constitutes a trust
fund, for the benefit of its general creditors, and that its governing officers cannot, by agreement or other transaction with
the stockholder, release him from his obligation to pay, to the
prejudice of its creditors, except by fair and honest dealing,
and for a valuable consideration. In the subsequent case of
Sawyer v. Upton (91 U. S. 56), we had occasion to consider
the same question, and there said: "The capital stock of an
incorporated company is a fund set apart for the payment of
its debts. It is a substitute for the personal liability which
subsists in private copartnerships. When debts are incurred, a
contract arises with the creditors that it shall not be withdrawn
or applied otherwise than upon their demands, until such demands are satisfied. The creditors have a lien upon it in
equity. If diverted, they may follow it as far as it can be
f'aaced, and subject it to the payment of their claims, except

Oct. 1880.]

CouNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

a,. against holders who have taken it bona fide for a valuable
consideration and without notice. It is publicly pledged to
those who deal with the corporation for their security. Unpaid
stock is as much a part of this pledge, and as much a part of
the assets of the company, as the cash which has been paid -n
upon it. Creditors have the same right to look to it as to anything else, and the same right to insist upon its payment as
upon the payment of any other debt due the company. As
regards creditors, there is no distinction between such a demand
and any other assets which may form a part of the property
and effects of the corporation." The same doctrines are held
in Upton v. T'ibilclk, 91 U. S. 45; Webster v. Upton, id. 65;
Hatch v. -Dana,101 id. 205. In no court have they been
more distinctly approved than in the Supreme Court of Illi
nots, when considering the liability of the county of Morgan
to creditors of the Illinois River Railroad Company arising
out of these identical bonds. 1"1organ County v. Thomas, 76
Ill. 120.
These principles condemn the arrangements with certain
creditors of the company, through which the county, to the
prejudice of other creditors, attempted to discharge its liability
to the common debtor by paying less than the entire sum due
from it. The suits in the State court, under cover of which
these arrangements were consummated, were all commenced
after the decree of foreclosure, and after the company had suspended operations and was notoriously insolvent. The county
recognized the dangers which beset the original enterprise, in
furtherance of which its people had voted a subscription of
stock payable in bonds. Its officers believed that it would inevitably fail, and that the ends expected to be accomplished by
the aid voted would not be attained. It was, for these reasons,
that they sought, or acceded to, an arrangement looking to the
protection of the county against liability. But it is clear that
other creditors besides those with whom it combined had an interest in the disposition of the assets of the company, and that
the plan, as conceived and consummated, was wholly inconsistent with the established doctrines of equity. Upon recognized
principles of public policy and good faith, the debt which the
county owed, by reason of its subscription and the bonds given

COUNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

[Sup. CL.

therefor, constituted, with other property of the company, a
trust fund, to which all its creditors could rightfully look for
satisfaction of their claims. The county was liable for the
whole ot that debt, and by no device or combination, to which
particular creditors were parties, could it withdraw its bonds
from that fund, and thereby avoid liability to the general
creditors of the company.
Had the county's liability to the company rested upon its
original subscription, the present case, it must be conceded,
would come within the very letter of our decisions in the cases
just cited. That the subscription was paid or merged in bonds
can certainly make no difference in the application of the principle upon which those cases were determined. The bonds
were the evidence of the debt created by the original subscription. The company had become, as all its creditors knew,
wholly unable to meet its engagements, and had practically
ceased to exist. The bonds in question were part of its assets,
in which all the creditors had an interest. The county, by an
arrangement with some of those creditors, attempted to lessen
its obligation to pay what it had stipulated to pay, and thereby
defeat the rights of other creditors, who had as much claim
upon the assets of the company as those with whom the county
contracted. What it did is utterly indefensible under any
known rules of equity.
2. But it is contended that the subscription was without authority of law, and that, consequently, the county is not liable
thereon, or upon the bonds. The specific ground upon which
this contention rests is that the vote of the people in 1856 conferred no legal authority to make the subscription, such vote having been taken under an order of the county court submitting,
as a single proposition, the question of subscribing .$50,000
to the capital stock of three separate railroad companies, one
of which was the Illinois River Railroad Company; that a
vote upon such a proposition, submitted in that form, was not
one upon which a municipal subscription could rest. There
are two sufficient answers to this suggestion. One is, that in no
one of the three cases in the Supreme Court of Illinois involving this subscription was any such question distinctly raised by
the county. All of them proceeded manifestly upon the undis.

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MORGAN v. ALLEN.

puted ground that the county court had ample power by .,tatute to make the subscription. We are not now disposed to
inquire whether the particular mode in which the people were
invited to pass upon the proposed subscription affected the substance or validity of the subscription when made; or, whether
the subscription was not a waiver of any irregularity in that
re.'pect. Until this suit was brought, more than fifteen years
after the subscription had been made, the county never disputed,
in any direct form, the legality of the order submitting the
question of subscription. Another answer to this objection is
suggested by the act of Jan. 29, 1857, declaring the vote to
have been legally taken, and requiring a subscription and the
issuing of bonds in accordance with the vote of the people.
That act, it is argued, was beyond the power of the legislature
to pass, in that, in violation of section 9 of article 5 of the Constitution of 1848, as construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
it imposed upon the people of the county a debt which they
had never legally voted to incur; that the vote in 1856, upon
the proposition to subscribe stock in three distinct railroad corporations, was an absolute nullity, which could not be constitutionally remedied by any act of assembly, or otherwise thn
by a direct vote of the electors upon a new proposition submitted in legal form. In support of these views we are referred to numerous decisions of the State court, which we had
occasion heretofore to examine in other cases. We deem it
unnecessary to consider the general doctrine, with all its limitations and qualifications, of the power of the legislature, by
retrospective enactments, to cure defects or omissions which
occurred in elections relating to municipal subscriptions. It is
often difficult to determine, as matter of local constitutional
law, whether the defect or omission in a particular case involves a mere irregularity in the execution of a statutory power,
or is vital and jurisdictional. It is quite sufficient on this
point to say that the Supreme Court of the State, in Thomas
st ,al. v. County of Horgan (39 Ill. 496), as well as in Morgan
County v. Twoinas (76 id. 120), recognized the act of the 29th
of January, 1857, as having legalized the vote of the county.
Those cases, in connection with Thomas v. County of M1organ
(59 id. 479), are adjudications under which certain creditors of

COUNTY

OF MORGAN

V. ALLEN.

[Sul). ct.

the Illinois River Railroad Company have received payments
of their claims out of the amount due from the county upon
the bonds issued in payment of its subscription. The decrees
in those cases could not have been rendered except upon the
ground that the subscription was not invalid by reason of the
particular mode in which the question of county aid was submitted to the electors.
3. It is further contended that the bonds were deposited with
Elliott & Brown, to be delivered upon the condition, to which
the railroad company assented, that they should be used only
for the payment of work done in Morgan County; and, since
no such work was done by that company, neither the latter nor
its creditors can enforce liability upon the county.
Undoubtedly the county authorities, at the outset, expected
that the bonds would be applied only upon such work, and
there is no reason to suppose that the president of the company
intended any application of them inconsistent with the paper
which he executed and delivered to the county prior to their
issue. The county court relied upon the assurances given by
that officer, and made an order, at its September Term, 1857,
that the bonds be delivered to the company. In conformity
with that order the bonds were deposited with Elliott & Brown,
the bankers of the company, and were held by them subject to
its order. They in return received, for the county and by its
direction, the certificate of stock. Subsequently, and after the
bonds were issued and delivered to Elliott & Brown, the county
voted as a stockholder in the election of directors, and for two
years paid the interest on its bonds. During all that time who
owned the bonds? We have already seen that the Supreme
Court of the State adjudged, and, as we think, rightly, that the
subscription was absolute and unconditional, and, when made,
the company became entitled to the bonds, and the county
to the stock. When the absolute subscription was made, the
claim for its payment became, as was held by that court, a part
of the assets of the company, upon which creditors could rely
for the payment of their debts. While, as held by the State
court, Thomas might bind himself to treat the subscription as
conditional, he had no authority, simply as president of the
company, "to consent that it should become conditional." The

Oct. ISS0.]

COUNTY OF MORGAN

v.

ALLEN.

present appellees, by their purchase of its mortgage bonds
(about $900,000 of them purchased in April or May, 1862, and
the remainder in 1868), became creditors of the company, and
nothing is disclosed by the evidence which estops them from
claiming, as against the county, that the bonds given for the
county's unconditional subscription constituted, from, at least,
the time of their issue and delivery to Elliott & Brown, a part
of the assets of the company, to which the latter's creditors
could look. Upon this very point the Supreme Court of the
State expressed similar views, and said that "where a party
receives property from another in discharge of precedent liability, and the party delivering the property has no legal right
to prescribe its future disposition or use, as in the present
instance, the mere fact that when he delivers it he expects and
intends that it shall be applied to a particular disposition or
use, does not make such an application of it a condition precedent to the vesting of title."
4. The objection that the appellees are concluded by the
decree in the State court, under which the county obtained
possession of its bonds, is not well taken. They were not parties to any of those suits, but it is contended that they are
nevertheless bound by the adjudication upon the claim asserted
therein by Studwell, Hopkins, and Cobb, in their capacity as
trustees in the mortgage deed, that they were entitled to the
possession of the bonds, for delivery to the new company in
completion of the original contract with the county. The
Supreme Court of the State was of opinion that the mortgage
deed did not, by its terms, include these bonds; that the Peoria,
Pekin, and Jacksonville Railroad Company was not a reorganization of the Illinois River Railroad Company, but a new
and totally independent organization; and, therefore, the new
company acquired no claim to the bonds at the sale under the
deed of trust. 76 Ill. But if the trustees, after obtaining
the decree of foreclosure and a sale of the mortgage property
for the benefit of the bondholders, were under a duty, or by
virtue of their position were authorized to enforce, for the
benefit of those creditors, the collection of the decree against
the company for the balance of the mortgage debt, it is manifest that they did not assume, in the suit in the State court, to
VOL. XIII

3

COUNTY OF MORGAN V. ALLEN.

[Sup. CL

which they and the county were parties, to represent the bond
holders. In the suit commenced by Elliott & Brown, and
reported in 89 Ill., they claimed the right to hold the bonds
for the benefit of the new company, and not for the bondholders, whose claims, after crediting the proceeds of the foreclosure sale, were unsatisfied to the extent of 91,061,292.56.
Besides, the State court did not, in that case, decide that Morgan County was discharged altogether, and as to everybody,
from responsibility upon the bonds, because of the failure of
the old company to construct the road in that county. In the
original decree it directed the bonds to remain in the custody
of Ayres & Co. And in the case in 59 Ill. the court held
that the construction of the road by the new company was
a substantial compliance with the contract between' the old
company and the county. There was no adjudication, in the
State court, against the claims of the present appellees. On
the contrary, the grounds upon which the claims of Vail,
Ladd, Thomas, Blair, and other creditors were adjudged by the
Supreme Court of the State to be payable out of these bonds
are the precise grounds upon which we sustain the claims of
appellees as creditors of the old company.
5. In reference to the suit which, it is suggested, was instituted by Studwell, Hopkins, and Cobb in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Illinois, it is
sufficient to say that the present transcript contains nothing
upon that subject. We are not advised, in any proper form,
of the nature and object of that suit, nor who were parties to
it. We cannot, therefore, say that the final decree in that case,'
if any was rendered, would affect the rights of parties in this
litigation.
There are many other questions which counsel have discussed, but we do not regard them as material in determining
the essential rights of the parties. We, therefore, refrain from
any discussion of them. The decree below is in line with the
adjudications of the Supreme Court of the State, and, in our
judgment, is right.
While upon the bench MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE, and MR. JusTrE STRONG participated in the decision of this case. They
concur in this opinion; and it is ordered that the judgment ba

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF MORGAN V. ALLEN.

entered as of the date when this cause was submitted to this
court.

Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, AlR. JUSTICE FIELD, and MR, JUS-

TICE BRADLEY dissented.
NOTE. -A
petition was filed for rehearing.
MP JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

We do not perceive that the petition for rehearing in behalf of the county
of Morgan contains any suggestion which was not pressed upon our attention
in oral argument, as well as in the printed briefs heretofore filed. All that
counsel said was carefully considered by us. But there were one or two matters, not distinctly covered by our opinion, to which we may properly refer.
A rehearing is asked to the end that a complete record of the suit, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois, of Stndwell,
Hopkins, and Cobb, Trustes, v. Morgan County, 6-c., may be obtained and embodied
in the transcript of the present case. If the record of that case were here, it
could be of no use to the county. The decree therein is not pleaded for any
purpose. Further, it is apparent, as well from the printed arguments filed in
this court, for and against the county, as from the testimony of the witnesses who
refer to the case in the Circuit Court, that the suit of Studwell, 6-c. v. Morgan
0tdy, , c., was dismissed by the complainants therein, and that there was no adjudicatin ,pon the mrits. The decree of dismissal in that suit, therefore, concluded
none of the parties to it, even were it conceded that the trustees had authority,
in virtue of their position, to represent the present appellees in any litigation
%%
ith Morgan County touching its liability to creditors of the Illinois River Railroad Company.
We did not, as counsel seem to suppose, overlook the argument based upon
the subscription made by the city of Jacksonville. That subscription, as matter
of law, was wholly disconnected from the subscription made by the county, and
we could not regard the former as payment, in whole or in part, of the latter,
without assuming to make for the parties a contract which they did not choose
to make for themselves. If, as urged, that the result is unfortunate for the
county, we can only say, what cannot be too often repeated, that hard cases
cannot be permitted to make bad law.
Petition denied.
Allen v. County of Morgan, appeal from the same decree, was argued by the
counsel who appeared in the preceding case. M.R. JusTicE HARLun remarked,
in giving the opinion of the court, that no error was perceived in the record
to the substantial prejudice of the appellants. The decree below was therefore
Afflrned.
MR. JUsTICZ Mimit, MiL JuTncz FzL,
sented

and MP. JUSTICE BnIsT lie

