LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. BANG[

[Sup. CIL

LIFE INSUEA1WE Co a-AY v. BATs.
Where there has been no newly discovered evidence, a bill in equity will not lie
to cancel a contract or enjoin a judgment thereon, where the complainant,
against whom it was rendered, sets up as grounds of relief matters which he
had full opportunity to plead in the action at law.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
T
lliam A. Maury for the
iMr. Herbert L. Baker and Mr. Wi
appellant.
Mr. Mark S. Brewer for the appellee.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of Insurance Company v. Bangs, supra,p. 435, we
had occasion to mention and comment upon a suit in equity,
commenced in March, 1876, by the same company against these
defendants, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Michigan, to obtain the cancellation of two policies of insurance, issued in November, 1875, upon the life of
James H. Bangs. That case was an action at law upon the
policies, to which the company pleaded the decree obtained in
the equity suit. This decree was held to be void as against
the infant defendant, because rendered by the court without
having obtained jurisdiction over him. As all other defences
except such as arose upon this decree were withdrawn, judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the amount
claimed.
The present suit is similar in its character and object to the
one brought in the Michigan district. It seeks a cancellation
of the two policies of insurance obtained by the deceased and
an injunction against the enforcement of the judgment recovered in the action at law. The bill avers that the policies were
obtained upon representations that the insured was a person of
good health and not subject or predisposed to any bodily inCrmity; that at the time he applied for the policies he had
conceived the design to commit suicide, but first to obtain aD

Oct. 1880.]

LIFE INSURANCE

Co. v. BANGS.

insurance upon his life in favor of his son in order to leave a
large amount to him and to his wife ; that in pursuance of this
design the policies were obtained, and soon afterwards he committed suicide by taking poison; and that the wife and son
were cognizant of the design of the deceased and conspired
with him for its execution.
The bill charges a fraudulent purpose on the part of the
insured to rob the insurance company, and then that he committed suicide to carry the purpose into execution. It charges
a conspiracy between him and his wife and son to effect this
robbery and death, -a
conspiracy on the part of the wife to
aid in the death of her husband, and on the part of the son
to aid in the death of his father. These charges are of such
dreadful crimes as to call for the clearest proof before a decree
cancelling the policies could be based upon them. Instead of
such proofs there is nothing of importance established which is
not consistent with the integrity of all the parties, -insured,
wife, and son. The main and essential fact averred in the company's case is the contemplated suicide of the insured. The
evidence to establish this - and it is stronger than the evidence
produced upon any other material averment- is that he had
inquired for insurance companies whose policies did not except
death by suicide; that his death occurred not long after the
policies were obtained, and was accompanied by convulsions
stated to be similar to those attending death by strychnine.
There is no evidence that he ever had any strychnine. The
only evidence produced was that he was once seen in a druggist's store looking at jars containing various medicines, and
among others, one that contained this poison. There was no
poison found in his body when submitted to a post-mortem
examination. And as to the convulsions at his death, the wife
attributed them to injuries which he had received in his back
a few days before. That is all. Everything else consisted of
mere suspicions growing out of the action of the wife in refusing to consent to a post-mortem examination of the deceased,
and her departure from the State, both of which might have
been, and, according to her answers to the interrogatories of
the bill, were prompted by worthy considerations. The transaeions with which she is charged as proof of guilty complicity,

LIFE INSURANCE Co.

v.

BANGS.

[Sup. Ct

viewed in the light of her explanations and the evidence pro.
duced, merely evince a very natural sensitiveness to the imputations cast upon the character of her husband by suspicions
thrown out by agents of the insurance company, and a great
repugnance to having his remains, after interment, disturbed
and subjected to the knife of the surgeon and the analysis of
the chemist. It is sufficient to say that no case is presented
which would justify any court in holding that a conspiracy existed to defraud the insurance company, the execution of which
involved the suicide of the insured, and the assent of wife and
son to the death of husband and father.
Aside from this, the judgment in the action at law was a bar
to this suit. Its recovery concluded all matters which might
have been urged as a defence to the policies. A fraudulent
purpose in procuring them, subsequently carried into execution, would have been a good defence. It was in fact originally
pleaded and afterwards withdrawn. Its withdrawal did not
authorize a suit in another forum for its establishment against
the demand of the plaintiff. When an action at law is brought
upon a contract, the defendant denying its obligation, either
from fraud, payment, or release, or any other matter affecting
its original validity or subsequent discharge, must present his
defence for consideration. A recovery is an answer to all future
assertions of the invalidity of the contract by reason of any
admissible matter which might have been offered to defeat the
action. The contract is merged in the judgment. Cromwell v.
County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351.
A suit in equity will not lie to give effect to defences against
a claim when they might have been fully set up in an action
at law. There must have been some fraud practised upon the
court or some unconscientious advantage taken of the defendant
without any fault or negligence on his part; or there must be
some newly discovered evidence which could not have been
obtained at the trial, and which, if produced, would have
changed the result, before a court of equity will interfere with
the judgment rendered or the contract upon which it was recovered. There is no pretence here that any such fraud was
committed or unconscientious advantage taken, or that there is
any newly discovered matter not known when the trial toolf

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

place. Home Insurance Co. v. Stanhfield, 1 Dill. 424; Marine
Insurance Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 882; Phoenix Insurance
Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616.
Decree affirmed.

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
Where, upon the undisputed facts of the ease, the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover, the court may instruct the jury to find a verdict for the defendant.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

111fr. George Bliss for the plaintiff in error.
3r. -JosephLaroeque, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The assignment of errors in this case presents the single
question, whether on the undisputed facts the court below was
right in directing a verdict in favor of the insurance company.
The facts were as follows : John James Jackson was the agent at Baltimore of the Royal
Insurance Company, a British corporation. His appointment
was in writing and filed in the office of the insurance commissioner of Maryland, in compliance with the laws of the State.
His powers were ample for the issuing of policies, the collection of premiums, and the adjustment and payment of losses.
No authority was given him, however, to borrow money on the
credit of the company, and he had never in a single instance
done so, except by the negotiation of bills drawn by him as
agent on the company to pay losses. He was at the same time
the agent of other insurance companies and of a number of
private persons. He was introduced to the Central National
3ank of Baltimore, in 1870 or 1871, as the agent of the Royal
Insurance Company, and opened an account in the name of

