Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

523

to the same general subject-matter, that is to say, our review
of the judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of the District in cases where jurisdiction has been made to depend on
the value of the matter in dispute. Under the act of 1879 we
van no longer hear any of that class of cases, unless the amount
,-xeeeds -,2,500.
Appeal dismissed, each party to pay his own costs.

CouNY OF TIPTON v. LocooTrvE WORKS.
I A general statute of Tennessee required the county courts, when thereunto authorized by a popular vote at an election held for the purpose, to subscribe
for stock in a railroad company. A special statute was subsequently
passed, which, without requiring the submission of the question of subscription to a popular vote, conferred power on the county courts of the
counties on the line of a particular railroad to make, and on the company
to receive, a subscription for its stock. Held, that the special statute is not
in violation of the provisions of sect. 8, art. 1, or of sect. 7, art. 11, of the
Constitution of Tennessee of 1834, infra, p. 525.
2. A county, having lawful authority, issued its bonds in payment of its subscription to a railroad company. Between the latter and another company
a consolidation was about to take place, upon condition that the county
court would, on an extension of time being granted, levy and collect a tax
sufficient to pay the amount due on the bonds. The county court accepted
the proposition, and gave the requisite assurance. The consolidation thereupon took place. Hdd, that the county was estopped from denying the
validity of the bonds in the hands of a bona .fide holder, to whom they were
transferred for value by the consolidated company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ilr. George Gantt for the plaintiff in error.
31r. W
Ylliam
F. C. Humes, Mr. Henry T. Bllett, and M'r.
Stanley Matthews for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error from a judgment in favor of the
Rogers Locomotive and Machine Works against the county of

524

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LoCoMOTIVE WORKS.

[SUp. Ot.

Tipton, in the State of Tennessee, for the principal and interest
of fifty bonds of $500 each, dated Jan. 1, 1869, and payable on
the first day of January, 1873, to the Mississippi River Railroad Company or bearer, with interest from date at the rate of
six per cent per annum.
Each bond, signed by the chairman of the Tipton County
court, and countersigned by its clerk, recites that it is 6 issued
under and by virtue of sect. 6 of an act of the Ugislature of the
State of Tennessee, passed Feb. 25, 1867, amended on the
twelfth day of February, 1869 ;" also, that "a special tax is
levied, by authority of law, upon all the taxable property in the
county of Tipton, to meet the principal and interest of these
bonds, collectible in equal instalments, running through five
years, as the bonds themselves mature;" and further, that "'this
is one of four hundred bonds, all of the same denomination and
rate of interest, issued by Tipton County in payment of a subscription of $200,000 to the Mississippi River Railroad Company, made by the county court of said county, under the
authority of the acts above recited, - these bonds, transferable
by delivery and redeemable in five years at the rate of W40,000
a year, commencing Jan. 1, 1870."
When the foregoing acts were passed there was in force a
general statute, under the provisions of which counties, incorporated cities, and towns could subscribe stock in railroads,
upon certain terms and conditions, one of which was the previous approval of the legal voters of such county, city, or town,
at an election called and held for the ascertainment of their
will. These special acts, in connection with the act of Nov. 5,
1867, for the benefit of the Mississippi River Railroad Company, authorized the county courts of counties on the line of
that company's Toad (among which was the county of Tipton)
to subscribe to its capital stock, without requiring a submission
of the question of subscription to a popular vote, - the majority
of the justices in commission being present, and a majority of
those present concurring.
The validity of those acts is questioned here, as it was in the
court below, upon the ground that they are unconstitutional,
and, therefore, gave no authority to make the subscription, or
issue bonds in payment thereof.

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LocoBIoTvE WORKS.

525

The provisions of the Constitution of Tennessee (that of
1834), to which, it is supposed, they are repugnant, are sect. 8
of art. 1, and sect. 7 of art. 11; the first of which declares that
"no freeman shall be taken, or imprisoned, or disseised of his
freehold, liberties, or privileges, or outlawed, or exiled, or in
any manner destroyed, or deprived of his life or property, except by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land;"
and the last of which provides that "the legislature shall have
no power to suspend any general law for the benefit of any
particular individual; nor to pass any law for the benefit of
individuals, inconsistent with the general law of the land; nor
to pass any law granting to. any individual, or individuals,
rights, privileges, immunities, or exemptions, other than such
as may be, by the same law, extended to any member of the
community who may be able to bring himself within the provisions of such law: Provided, always, the legislature shall
have power to grant such charters of incorporation as may be
deemed expedient for the public good."
It is contended that these special acts are in violation of
sect. 7, art. 11, of the State Constitution in that they authorized
a limited number of counties to subscribe to the capital stock
of a particular railroad corporation, and also because they dis.
pensed with the previous sanction of a popular vote, as reqyired
by the general statute regulating railroad subscriptions by
counties, incorporated cities, and towns; and, further, that
being partial and special laws, inconsistent with the general
law upon the subject of municipal subscriptions, they do not
constitute "the law of the land," within the meaning of sect. 8,
art. 1, of that Constitution. The argument in behalf of the
plaintiff in error is, that the power, reserved to the legislature
in the proviso to sect. 7 of art. 11, "to grant such charters of
incorporation as may be deemed expedient for the public good,"
is limited, in its exercise, by the prohibitions contained in the
body of the same section; and that a charter conferring upon
a particular railroad company, or upon particular municipal
corporations, special privileges and immunities, not given by
the general law, was inconsistent with those prohibitions, and,
besides, was not a "law of the land" within the meaning of
sect. 8 of art. 1.

b26

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

These propositions have received at our hands that consideration which their importance confessedly demands; and if we
err in the conclusions reached, it will not be the fault of able
counsel, who, both in oral and printed arguments, have pressed
upon our attention every suggestion which seems to have any
bearing upon the question presented for determination.
The earnestness with which they have asserted their positions
to be sustained by adjudications of the Supreme Court of the
State has made it necessary for us to examine, with great care,
a very large number of the reported decisions of that learned
tribunal. If, when the acts in question were passed, the General Assembly was without power, under the Constitution, as
interpreted by the highest court of Tennessee, to enact a special
law authorizing a designated number of counties, without a previous vote of the people, to make subscriptions of stock to a
particular railroad running through such counties, our duty is
to accept that construction of the fundamental law of the State.
But if there was no such contemporaneous or fixed construction,
this court, as was the court of original jurisdiction, is under a
duty imposed by the Constitution of the United States, from
the performance of which it is not at liberty to shrink, to determine, for itself, what were the legal rights of parties at the
time the bonds in suit were issued.
It would extend this opinion to an improper length should
we extract from the numerous decisions of the State court,
cited by counsel, so much of their language as seems pertinent
to the questions before us. We must, therefore, content ourselves with stating only the general doctrines to be deduced
from the adjudged cases, some of which are cited in a note to
this opinion.'
Prior to the case of Wallace v. Tipton County (to which we
1 Budd v. The State, 3 Hum. 483; Vanzant v. Waddd, 2 Yerg. 260; State Bank
v. Cooper, id. 599; Tate v. Bell, 4 id. 202; Officer v. Younq, 5 id. :320; Fisher v.
Dabbs, 6 id. 119; Jones v. Perry, 10 id. 59, 78; Mart v. Erdoe, 1 id. 452; Sheppard
v. Johnson, 2 Hum. 285; Hazen v. Union Bank of Tennessee, 1 Sneed, 115, 118;
Nichol v. Mayor, 6-c., 9 Hum. 252; City of Memphis v. The Memphis Water Co.,

5 Heisk. 495; Memphis City railroad Co. v. Mayor 6- Aldermen of Memphis, 4 Cold.
406; L. 6- N. Railroad Co. v. County Court of Davidson, 1 Sneed, 638; McCallie

v. Mayor, 6-c., 3 Head, 317. See also numerous cases cited in the head-notes of the
foregoing cases as they appear in Chancellor Cooper's Tennessee 1Reporto.

Od. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

527

will hereafter refer more particularly), the following rules or
principles seem to have been established by repeated adjudications in the Supreme Court of the State, viz.: That a law, which did not alike embrace and equally affect
all persons in general, or all persons who exist, or may come
into the like state and circumstances, was a partial and special
law, and, therefore, not "the law of the land," within the meaning of the Constitution of 1796, from which was taken sect.
8 of art. 1 of the Constitution of 1834;
That sect. 7 of art. 11, prohibiting the suspension of a general law for the benefit of any particular individual, or the
passage of any law for the benefit of individuals, inconsistent
with the general laws of the land, or the passage of any law
granting to any individual or individuals, rights, privileges,
immunities, or exceptions, other than such as may by the same
law be extended to any member of the community who may be
able to bring himself within the provisions of such law, is a
statement, in condensed form, of the construction which the
Supreme Court of the State had in several decisions placed
upon the phrase, "the law of the land," as used in both the
Constitutions of 1796 and of 1834;
That, nevertheless, the authority of the legislature to create
corporations with special rights and privileges, existed as an
incident of sovereignty; that a law creating a corporation and
granting a franchise was more in the nature of a contract than
a "law of the land," in the sense of the Constitution; and, upon
that ground, the right given to a bank by its charter, granted
in 1832, to take a greater rate of interest than was allowed by
a general statute to individual citizens, was held not to be obnoxious to the Constitution upon the ground that it was not a
general law, or " the law of the land; "
That the proviso in sect. 7 of art. 11 of the Constitution of
1834 was inserted "for the purpose of enabling the legislature
thereby to grant exclusive privileges, which, but for the proviso, would be prohibited by the body of the section;" that
the power to create corporations was not curtailed or restricted
ny the general prohibitions in that section, but only by the
positive provisions to be found in other parts of the Constitution;

528

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct

That prior to the adoption of the Constitution of 1834 the
Supreme Court of the State suggested doubts as to whether
the taxing power, being legislative in its nature, could be constitutionally conferred upon the subordinate municipal corporations or civil divisions of the State; and, that for the purpose
of removing those doubts, the convention which framed that
Constitution incorporated into it sect. 29 of art. 2, which declares that "the General Assembly shall have power to authorize the several counties and incorporated towns in the
State to impose taxes for county and corporation purposes,
respectively, in such manner as shall be prescribed by law;
and all property shall be taxed according to its value, upon the
principles established in regard to State taxation ;"
That the construction of a railroad to or through a county
or incorporated town is, in the one case, a county, and in the
other a corporate purpose, for which the legislature may invest
such county or town respectively with the power to impose
taxes;
That under sect. 29 of art. 2 the legislature could, by special
act, confer upon the mayor and aldermen of an incorporated
town, directly and exclusively (and, consequently, upon the
county court of a county), the power to subscribe railroad
stock, without first, or at all, submitting the question of subscription to a vote of the inhabitants of such town.
Such were, beyond question, as we think, the established
principles of the Constitution as announced by the highest judicial tribunal of the State, up to the decision in Wallace v.
Tipton County, to which reference has already been made.
These doctrines, it must be conceded, would sustain the statutes of 1867 and 1869 against the objections urged. But it is
contended that the decision in that case is a direct authority
against the constitutionality of those acts, and should control
our judgment.
That case deserves special examination. It was a suit commenced in 1873, in an inferior State court of Tennessee, by
certain taxpayers of Tipton County against the county court
of that county, the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company
(a corporation lawfully created by the consolidation, in 1872,
of the Mississippi River Railroad Company, witl, the Paducah

880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTUN z,. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

529

and Gulf Railroad Company, a Kentucky corporation), and the
l,)cal collectors of Tipton County engaged in the collection of
taxes which had been levied to meet the bonds constituting the
issue of $200,000 to the Mississippi River Railroad Company,
under the aforesaid acts of 1867 and 1869. The object of that
.,uit was to enjoin the collection of such taxes, upon the ground
that those acts were unconstitutional and void. In May, 1874,
certain citizens of other States, holders of a portion of the Tipt n County bonds, were, upon their own application, made parties defendant in that suit. They thereupon filed a petition
for its removal to the Circuit Court of the United States, and,
as to them, the opinion of the court states, the suit was removed. The railroad company, by an amended answer, disclaimed all interest in the suit, and informed the court that it
neither held nor owned any of the bonds, but that they were
held and owned by others who had paid value therefor. Thenceforward it was a suit, practically if fiot exclusively, between
parties who had no interest in enforcing the collection of the
county's bonds. It was finally determined without the presee of any of the holders of the bonds. Waiving any question
as to whether, under the act of Congress, the whole suit was
not removed to the Federal court, it is sufficient to say that,
in accordance with the prayer of the taxpayers, a decree was
entered, which was, by the Supreme Court of the State, in all
respects, affirmed. Although the case was determined in the
Supreme Court, at its September Term, 1875, it has not, that
we can ascertain, been published in its reported decisions, and
we are not, therefore, advised of the precise grounds upon
which the acts of 1867 and 1869 were assailed in argument, as
being in conflict with the Constitution. But the opinion of the
court discloses the fact that those acts were held to be repugnant to sect. 8 of art. 1, and sect. 7 of art. 11, of the State Constitution, upon the ground, that while the general law of 1852,
regulating railroad subscriptions by counties, towns, and cities,
required a popular vote as a condition precedent to any authority to make subscriptions, the special acts of 1867 and
1869 permitted a few counties, upon the line of the Mississippi
River railroad, by their respective county courts, and without
a submission of the question to the people, to subscribe to that
TOL. XIII.

34

630

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOIOTIVE WORKS.

[SUp. Ct

company's stock. No comment whatever is made in the orlg-.
nal opinion, and very little in the opinion on the rehearing,
upon the scope or effect of the proviso in sect. 7 of art. 11,
giving or reserving to the legislature the power to grant
such charters of incorporation as it deemed expedient for
the public good. But it is to be assumed that the court
did not regard that proviso as materially affecting the conclusion reached. If there had been no decision of the State
court, subsequent to that of Wallace v. Tpton County, on
the subject of municipal subscriptions, under special statutes, we should feel greatly embarrassed by the circumstance,
that the judgment of the Circuit Court could not, upon this
branch of the case, be sustained, except by disregarding that
decision.
But all difficulty, we think, is removed by the decision of
the State court in the more recent case of the Knoxville and
Ohio Railroad Company'v. Hicks, determined in 1877. Unless
we mistake, altogether, the import of that decision, it is inconsistent with the doctrines of W~allace v. Tipton County, and,
upon the point now before us, practically overrules the latter
case.
In Knoxville and Ohio Railroad Company v. Hicks, it was a
question whether an act passed in 1852, exempting the capital
stock, dividends, roads, and fixtures of the Knoxville and Kentucky Railroad Company from taxation, until the stock paid a
dividend equal to the legal rate of interest, was in conflict with
the Constitution of 1834. That Constitution declared (sect. 28,
art. 2) "that all lands, liable to taxation, held by deed, grant,
or entry, town lots, bank stock, &c., and such other property as
the legislature may from time to time deem expedient, shall be
taxable." In view of that constitutional injunction, the case
was a very strong one for the application of the prohibitions,
against special and partial laws, contained in sect. 7 of art. 11;
if such prohibitions had any application whatever to charters
of incorporation granted by the legislature. But the court,
after stating that the convention of 1834 comprised among its
delegates some of the ablest lawyers the State ever had, whc
were familiar with the principles of the Dartmouth College
vase, and knew that the legislature, under the previous Consti-

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON V. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

521

tution, had, without question, exercised the power of granting
,.harters, with total or partial exemptions, said: " With these
facts prominently before the convention, if it was their purpose
t,, restrict the power of the legislature, one should expect to
find such restriction expressed in unequivocal language. But
the only direct provision, in regard to the power of the legislature in respect to charters of incorporation, is in the proviso to
sect. 7 of art. 11, to the effect that the restriction upon the
p1ower of the legislature to grant special privileges, immunities,
and exemptions was not to be construed to affect the power of
the legislature to grant such charters of incorporation as they
might deem expedient for the public good, thereby leaving the
1)ower as it previously existed. See Hope v. -Deaderick,8 Hum.
1. If it had been the purpose of the convention to restrict the
p)ower of the legislature in this particular, this would certainly
have been the appropriate place to insert the restriction ; but
so far from doing so, we find only the proviso above referred
to, which was intended to exclude the idea that the first clause
of the section against the granting of special privileges, immunities, or exemptions was intended to limit the power of the
legislature in regard to granting charters of incorporation.
Fron this, the conclusion seems necessarily to follow, that the
legislature was still left the power to pass laws creating bodies
c-rpoirate, with all the rights, privileges, immunities, and exemptions which it was usual to vest in such fictitious persons
under the general principles previously recognized; and, as we
have seen, the power in question was previously recognized by
the general law and the authorities of the State. We do not
say rights, privileges, or immunities might be granted inconsistent with other positive restrictions of the Constitution."
The court then proceeds to consider the language of sect. 28 of
art. 2, already cited, in reference to taxation, and says: "On
the other hand, this section may well be construed as having
no reference to the property of corporations to be created, and
as leaving the power of the legislature, in this regard, as it
stood before. This is the more natural construction when we
take this section in connection with the clause before referred
to, and find that no express restriction is placed upon the power
conceded to have previously existed in the legislature, in re

632

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOiOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct

spect to corporations, in that clause which refers directly to
the power to grant such charters."
The chief significance of the decision in the last case lies in
the explicit declaration by the court, that the power expressly
granted to the legislature in the proviso to the seventh section
of article eleven, to create corporations with such charters as,
in its judgment, were expedient for the public good, was not
limited or restrained in its operation by the prohibitions in
the same section against special rights, privileges, immunities,
or exemptions; in other words, that the legislature, as to corporations, could grant special rights and privileges which, but for
the proviso, might be deemed obnoxious to the prohibitory
clauses of that section. And in that view we concur.
The case of MeKinney v. Overton Hotel Co. (12 Heisk.
(Tenn.) 104), cited by counsel for plaintiff in error, is not
adverse to this conclusion. The main question there was as
to the constitutionality of an act, passed in 1860, authorizing
the hotel company to issue mortgage bonds bearing a greater
rate of interest than was allowed by the general law of the
State. It was held that sect. 7 of art. 11, giving power to
grant such charters of incorporation as the legislature deemed
expedient for the public good, must be construed in connection
with sect. 6 of the same article, which imposed upon the legislature the duty of fixing the rate of interest, and declared, that
the "rate so established shall be equal and uniform throughout
the State." The decision was that the legislature, in creating
corporations under sect. 7, could not grant to them "powers or
rights expressly forbidden by any other clause of the Constitution." Consequently, the rate of interest fixed by the legislature was applicable to corporations as well as to individuals.
The language of the court, in connection with prior decisions,
upon the general subject of corporations, justifies the conclusion
that the act of 1860 would not have been declared void had not
the Constitution of 1834 expressly required the rate of interest
to be equal and uniform throughout the State.
Looking, then, as well at the language of the Constitution as
at the course of decision in the Supreme Court of Tennessee
uap to the time the acts of 1867 and 1869 were passed, and
giving full effect to its latest utterance, to which our attention

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF' TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

584

has been called, and remembering, also, that the power given
to a municipal corporation to subscribe to the stock of a railroad company may be, also, a right and privilege of that company (Coun ty of Seotlawi v. Tiomas, 94 U. S. 682; Wilson v.
,S'alanianca,99 id. 499; Epire v. Darlington,101 id. 87, 91),
our conclusion is, that those acts were not repugnant to the
constitutions of the State, by reason of the authority they
confer on a limited number of counties to make, and on a par
ticular railroad corporation to receive, a subscription of stock,
nor because they dispensed with the previous assent of the
people of such counties expressed at a popular election.
It remains to inquire whether, in view of the evidence, the
Circuit Court committed any error of law, either in giving or
refusing instructions to the jury.
Certain facts should be stated as explanatory of the instructions which were given to the jury. Upon the trial evidence
was introduced in behalf of the county tending to establish
"fraud, moral coercion, intimidation, and bribery in the procuremnent and issuance of the bonds in suit in this case upon
th part of the Mississippi River Railway Company," and that
such corrupt practices were not known to the county court
until February, 1875. On the 30th of September, 1871, at
a meeting of the board of directors of the railroad company, a
resolution was offered by one who, at the time, was a justice of
the peace of Tipton County, which, after reciting the failure
of thme county to provide means for the payment of its bonds
and coupons, designated E. Norton, as agent of the company,
to make the following proposition to the county, namely:
"That this company will grant an extension of time for the
payment of said bonds and interest, so that the said payments
shall be extended to the period of ten years from the date of
the bonds, in ten annual instalments, instead of the time they
now have to run; this extension to apply to all bonds which
this conmpany owns or controls. But this proposition should
he made on condition that the County Court of Tipton County
shall immediately levy a tax, and proceed to its collection, for
the amount now due under this offer, and that they shall each
year levy, collect, and promptly pay over the amount to fall
due each year, as the same f:alk due during the whole period

534

CouNTry oF TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

of this proposed extension; and, in case of a failure to levy,
collect, or promptly pay over said annual amount, then the
remaining bonds to become due, according to their original
terms."
This proposition was presented to the county coart by Norton at its October Term, 1871. Several of the justices were
then present who had attended the July meeting of 1870, on
which latter occasion the court, by resolutions, entered upon
its records, declared that the bonds had been issued without
lawful authority, and were not binding upon the county. Across
the record of those resolutions was, however, subsequently written the word "void," but by whom, or when, so written, does
not appear.
In addition to this evidence, the substantial facts upon which
the case went to the jury are indicated in the following charge
given by the court at the request of the plaintiffs: "That if you credit the testimony, and from it believe that
Mr. Norton, as president of the Paducah and Gulf Railroad
Company, in October, 1871, appeared before a duly organized
county court of Tipton County, and in open court fully explained to it that a consolidation was contemplated between
his company and the Mississippi River Railroad Company, and
that such consolidation depended upon the fact whether the
bonds in controversy were to be paid by the county, and whether
it would proceed to levy a tax for the same, and then and there
presented the proposition of the said Mississippi company
recited in the resolution of that date, passed by the said county
court, and that said Paducah company was then solvent, and
owned and operated a railroad from the town of Paducah, in
Kentucky, to Troy, in Tennessee, and that no portion of the
railroad in Tipton County was then completed, and that but a
few thousand dollars had been expended in work thereon, and
that the purpose of said consolidation was to complete said road
in Tipton County, and to connect it with the line of said Paducah and Gulf road, and that said road has since been completed
to the town of Covington, in said county, to the city of Memphis, being a distance of thirty-seven miles, twenty-one whereof
are in said Tipton County, and that said Norton communicated
to his company the action of said county court at its said Octo-

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LocomOTIVE WORKS.

585

ber session of 1871, and that in consequence thereof, and in
reliance thereupon, said consolidation took place, whereby said
Paducah and Memphis railroad was created, and that said
latter company thereafter completed the road from Covington
to Memphis, and has regularly run and operated the same from
the 25th of June, 1873, to this date, and that the plaintiffs in
this action, in the ordinary course of trade, and without any
notice of ill faith in the procuration of said bonds, gave full
value therefor to the said Paducah and Memphis Railroad
Company, by furnishing engines to be employed on said road,
and that said Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company received
said bonds without any notice whatsoever of any fraud in their
issuance; then the fact that one or more of the justices of said
county court, who originally voted for said subscription of
stock, were induced so to do by corrupt means, and all other
proofs or matters of fraud, constitute no defence to this action."
To the giving of that charge the county, by its attorney,
excepted.
At the request of the county the court charged the jury that
"if the railway procured the issuance of the bonds by bribery,
fraud, and corruption, that they would be void in the hands of
the railway company, just as if they had not been issued; that
ull persons taking them from the company with notice, or
under circumstances to put the vendor on inquiry, would stand
in no better plight than the railway company would;" and that
"if it appears that there was actual fraud in procuring the
bonds, then the plaintiffs would be bound to show that they
were I na fide holders."
The defendant requested the court to further charge the
jury as follows: "That if the plaintiff took them (the bonds)
after due, they would stand like the railway company's;" which
request was granted, with the modification that "unless the
jury believed as stated in the charge given at the request of
the plaintiffs :"
"That a party may waive the fraud by subsequent acts, but
in order to make this doctrine apply, it must appear that the
party waiving was fully apprised of the fraud which he waives.
He must know of the fraud, and, knowing, waive it;" which
was given with this modification: " Although this is generally

536

COUiTY op TiPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

true, it has no application to this case if the jury believe as in
the charge stated in favor of the plaintiffs. If one citizen about
to buy a demand against another applies to him in good faith
to ascertain whether the demand will be paid, and is informed
that it will be, and buys in reliance upon such information, the
party admitting his obligation will not be permitted to defend,
although the admission was made in ignorance of a valid
defence."
"That if before a contract which was void, which is no contract, had become a subsisting and valid contract, a constitutional provision intervenes, which took away all power from
one of the contracting parties to enter into the contract, then
there could be no contract by ratification, because the party
would be under disability of contracting either expressly or by
ratification. Therefore, if the contract was void in its making,
fur fraud, and the facts of the fraud were not known, and known
waived, before May, 1870, when the new constitution was
adopted, then there could be no contract by ratification or
otherwise, as all power to make such a contract as this was
then, by the mandate of the Constitution, taken away from
the county court." That instruction was also granted, with
this modification: "That although the general reasoning of
this request is correct in legal principle, still, if the jury believe
as stated in the charge for the plaintiffs, the defendant will
be estopped to set up fraud as a defence, after having induced
their purchase by answering to an inquiry of whether they
would be paid, that they would be. And if the jury believe
that such were the facts in this ease, then fraud will not constitute a defence."
"That if the influences which procured the contract were
afterwards successfully exerted in concealing the fraud and
defeating its discovery and eforts to resist the contract, then
there can be no such thing as a waiver; that communities may
waive fraud, but more indulgence is extended to them than to
individuals; that accepting the road and using it, and paying
a part of the consideration in ignorance of the fraud by which
a vote was produced, will not be a waiver." This request was
given with the same modifications, however, as made in refer.
,nce to the last two preceding requests by the defendant.

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

537

We are unable to perceive that any error of law was committed to the prejudice of the county. The case went to the
jury under circumstances quite as favorable to it as the evideuce justified. If the facts disclosed in the instructions were
believed by the jury to be established by the testimony, its
duty was to return a verdict for the plaintiffs. The charge of
fraud, bribery, moral coercion, and intimidation applied, it
must be observed, to the MAississippi Railroad Company and to
the justices composing the county court at the time the original
subcription was made, and the bonds issued and delivered.
When the court, subsequently, received the written proposition
from the railroad company, for an extension of time upon certain conditions, it was distinctly informed that its action would
affect and control large business operations in which others
were concerned who had no connection with the original subscription, or with the issue of the bonds. The extension of
time was accepted upon the terms and conditions set out in the
proposition of the company, and without, so far as the record
discloses, any dissent among the twenty-two justices present;
and, as evidence of its purpose to adhere to the new agreement
and provide for the payment of the bonds and coupons, the
county court ordered the levy of a tax upon all of the taxable
property of the county. We have already seen that at the
meeting of the county court held in July, 1870, resolutions
were entered of record declaring that the bonds had been issued
without lawful authority, and directing such steps to be taken as
were necessary to protect the people against the proposed burden. With this record before the justices who composed the court
in October, 1871, the proposition for an extension of time was
accepted, and an assurance of record was thereby given, that
the county would meet the bonds according to the new terms.
The force of this action of the court was increased in view of
sect. 402 of the Code of Tennessee, adopted in 1858, declaring
that "every county is a corporation, and the justices in the
court assembled are the representatives of the county and
authorized to act for it."
Whether upon the faith of these proceedings in the county
court the Paducah and Gulf Railroad Company consolidated
with the Mississippi River Railroad Company, was fairly sub.

538

x

COUNTY OF TiPTON

v.

LoCO0IOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

mitted for the determination of the jury. The new company
having become, in virtue of that consolidation, the owner of
the assets of the constituent companies, including the bonds in
suit, proceeded with the work of construction. There was evidence tending to show that at the time of the consolidation
only a few thousand dollars had been expended in building the
Mississippi River railroad in Tipton County; that after the consolidation about half a million of dollars had been expended in
Tipton County by the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company; that the road from Memphis to Covington, the county
seat of Tipton, a distance of thirty-seven miles (of which twentyone miles were in Tipton County), had been built and equipped,
and trains running thereon regularly, ever since June 25, 1873;
that the road had been graded, bridged, and made ready for
the cross-ties and rails from Covington to one and a quarter
miles north of Ripley, in Lauderdale County; that since the
consolidation the road had been completed and equipped from
Troy to Trumber, a distance of fifteen miles, and trains run
regularly between those places; that the road had been graded,
bridged, and cross-tied for the rails from Trumber to Dyersburg, and the right of way secured on about twenty-one miles
of the road between Dyersburg and Ripley. This is not all.
The stock which Tipton County originally received in payment of its subscription was voted by its official representative
in favor of the consolidation, and the county received, in place
of its stock in the Mississippi River Railroad Company, stock
for like amount in the new company. Besides, the county voted
the new stock in favor of the execution of a mortgage for
$1,951,000, which was placed upon the property of the company
which was formed by the consolidation.
The acceptance by the county court of the terms and conditions set forth in the proposition of Sept. 80, 1871, and its
participation, under the circumstances adverted to, by its authorized representatives, in the proceedings which resulted in
the consolidation, whereby the situation of the Paducah and
Gulf Railroad Company became materially altered, was, in
effect, a representation to those interested in that company that
the county would not withhold payment of its bonds or coupons,
lut would meet them according to the terms of the new agree-

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF TIPTON v. LOCOOTIVE WORKS.

539

ment. By its conduct it induced those interested in the Padusolvent, out of debt,
calh and Gulf Railroad Company -then
and owning and operating a complete railroad from Paducah,
Ky., to Troy, Tenn., worth $1,000,000-to believe that the
bonds would constitute a part of the available assets of the
new company. The defendants in error received a portion
of these bonds as early as March 15, 1873. The integrity of
the business transaction by which they acquired them is not
questioned by any evidence recited in the record. Nor does it
appear that any evidence was offered that impugned in any
degree the good faith, in respect of these matters, of those who
controlled the Paducah and Gulf Railroad Company, or of those
who controlled the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company
subsequent to the consolidation of 1872. The defendants in
error obtained the bonds in suit from the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, paying value therefor, and, so far as
the record discloses, without any reason to suspect their payment would be resisted by the county. In view, then, of the
conduct throughout all these proceedings of those who represented the county of Tipton, it is estopped, by every consideration of law, justice, and fair dealing, from disputing its
liability to defendants in error upon the bonds in suit. The
discovery by the county, in February, 1875, of fraud and corrupt practices upon the part of the Mississippi River Railroad
Company, in procuring the issue of the bonds in 1869, cannot
be permitted to affect the rights of those who had, in good faith,
acquired the bonds in reliance upon the explicit assurance which
the county, in effect, gave in October, 1871, that it would provide for the payment of the bonds and their coupons. The
defendants in error having obtained the bonds under the circumstances which have been detailed, may rightfully invoke,
in support of their claims, any facts which would have estopped
the county from disputing the claim of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, had the latter company never parted
with the bonds.
There are other grounds arising upon the evidence upon
-which the judgment below might, perhaps, be sustained, and
there are other questions suggested in argument upon which
we deem it unnecessary to comment.

[Sup. Ct.

THE " RICHIOND."

MR. JUSTIE SwAYNE and MR.JUSTICE STRONG partici-

pated in the decision of this case in conference before their
retirement, and we are authorized to say that they concur in

this opinion and judgment.

Judgment affirned.

NOm. - County of Tipton v. Norton and County of Tipton v. Edmunds,error from
the same court, were argued at the same time by the same counsel as the
preceding case, and, upon its authority, the judgments therein rendered were
affirmed.

THE " RicE'moND."
1. Where in a case in admiralty the decree below, determining the liability of
the respective vessels in a collision, was rendered before the act of Feb. 16,
1875, c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315), took effect, this court, the case being
properly here on appeal, will re-examine the evidence, and, if the appellant
does not show that in the concurring action of the courts below error wag
committed to his prejudice, the decree will be affirmed.
2 Where, after such a decree, and the taking effect of that act, the ascertainment of the amount of damages sustained by the vessel not in fault
was referred to a master, the action of the Circuit Court upon exceptions
to his report, all of which relate to questions of fact, will not be reviewed
here.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
This was a libel filed by Shirley and others, owners of the
steamboat "Sabine."
They allege, in substance, that between
two and three o'clock of the morning of Feb. 11, 1872, while
she was descending the Mississippi River about twelve miles
above New Orleans, the steamer "Richmond"

ran into and

sunk her; that the collision was owing entirely to the gross
and culpable negligence of the officers and pilot of the "Richmond;" and that the libellants suffered damages to the sum

of $37,500.
The owners of the "Richmond"

flied an answer and cross-

libel, claiming $12,000 damages.
The Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company filed its libel
igainst the "Richmond"

and the "Sabine,"

alleging that it

