WEIGHTMAN V. CLARIL

[Sup. t

pan and the V-shaped trough filled with plaster of Paris or
other non-conductor of heat. The fact that its bottom rested
upon the plaster of Paris protected the juices of the meat from
the action of the flames.
Upon a consideration of all the evidence we are satisfied
that the invention of Lazear was new and original, and had
not been anticipated by the patents of Teller or Shaw, or the
gas-stove made by Shaw in 1856.
The invention, it is admitted, has been infringed by the
defendant. The evidence places its utility beyond question.
Being novel and useful, and protected by the letters-patent
issued to Lazear, the defendant should account to the complainant for the gains and profits derived by it from the infringement of the Lazear patent.
As the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, the decree must be
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.

WFGHTXAX v. CLARK.
1. This court concurs in opinion with the Supreme Court of Illinois that cect. E
of art. 9 of the Constitution of that State of 1848 (infra, p. 257) impozea a
limitation on the power of the legislature to authorize taxation by the
municipal corporations or the political subdivisions of the State.
2. A congressional township is by the laws of Illinois merely a corporation for
school purposes. It cannot, therefore, subscribe for stock in a railroad
company, and issue its bonds in payment, nor levy a tax upon persons and
property within its jurisdiction, to aid in building railroads.
APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.ir. Henry landers and Mr. 1B. J. C. Walker for the appellants.

111r. John I

Rinacer, Contra.

Oct. 1880.]

WEIGITMAN V. CLARK.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By the Constitution of Illinois, adopted in 1848, counties
were recognized as existing political subdivisions of the State,
and the General Assembly was authorized to provide by a general law for a township organization, under which any county
might come, whenever a majority of the voters should, at any
general election, so determine. If a county did adopt a township organization, the management of its fiscal affairs by the
county court might be dispensed with, and the business of
the county transacted in such manner as the General Assembly
should provide. Art. 7, sect. 6. Under the authority of this
provision of the Constitution, an act was passed by the General
Assembly authorizing such an organization, by which townships
could be established and made bodies corporate, with certain
defined governmental powers. Gross, Stat. 1869, p. 741.
By another statute each congressional township in the State
was "established a township for school purposes." Id., p. 691.
The business of such a township was to be done by three
trustees, to be elected from time to time by the legal voters of
the township, and who were made "a, body politic and corporate, by the name and style of ' trustees of schools of town,' according to the number." The powers
, rangeshipof these trustees related exclusively to the business of the public
schools in the township. They had authority to lay off the
township into school districts and apportion the school funds,
and were charged with certain other duties connected with
school affairs and school lands within their jurisdiction. They
had no power to levy taxes. That was to be done by the directors of the several school districts which should be created.
Art. 9, sect. 5, of the Constitution of 1848 is as follows:-

"The corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns, and villages may be vested with power to
assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes; such taxes to be
unitbrm in respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction
Of the body imposing the same. And the General Assembly shall
require that all the property within the limits of municipal corporations, belonging to individuals, shall be taxed for the payment of
debts contracted under authority of law."
voL. xiii.

17

WEIGHTMAN V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

The Illinois Farmers' Railroad Company was incorporated
Feb. 28, 1867, and by an amendment to its charter, passed
April 15, 1869, the following provisions were made: " SECT. 2. It shall be lawful for the corporate authorities of the
towns, townships, cities, and counties through which said road shall
pass, to take stock in the said company; and shall also be empowered to make assessments, levy taxes, and collect the same in the
manner in which the said several towns, townships, cities, and
counties assess and collect taxes, for the purpose of paying the said
assessments on the subscriptions to the said stock or the interest
accruing thereon, and the said towns, townships, cities, and counties
may issue bonds, bearing interest, at any point they may designate,
either within or without the State of -llinois, at a rate not exceeding
ten per cent per annum, payable annually or semi-annually, as they

may elect: Provided, that the said townships, cities, or towns
shall not subscribe to the stock of the said company without
submitting the said proposed subscription to a vote of the legal
voters of their respective towns, townships, or cities, thirty days'
notice of which shall be given, elections held and returns made as
provided by the general election laws of this State: And provided
further, that no such bonds shall issue, nor shall any interest be
payable thereon or accrue, until said road is completed through the
said town, township, city, or county: Andprovidedfurthsr,that the
subscriptions on the part of the said counties shall not be for a sum
exceeding two thousand dollars per mile of the line of the said road
in the said counties.
"SECT. 3. In counties not under township organization it shall
be lawful for the trustees of schools to make subscriptions for their
respective townships, and issue bonds as provided in the preceding
section; and for the purpose of paying the said subscriptions or
bonds, or the interest thereon, shall levy a tax, not exceeding the
rate of one per cent per annum, upon the taxable property of their
respective townships, and shall, through their treasurer, certify the
said assessment to the clerk of the county court of their respective
counties, and it shall be the duty of the said clerk of the county
court to carry out the tax so assessed upon the collector's book;
and the amount so raised by taxation shall remain in the hands of
the treasurer of the proper county, and shall be employed by him
in paying, first, the interest due on the said bonds, and then the
principal, if any funds shall remain in his hands, and for no otbey
purpose.".

Oct. 1880.]

WEIGHTMAN V. CLARK.

The county of Morgan, through which the road of this company passed, was not under township organization, and on the
1st of February, 1870, at an election called, the voters of congressional township No. 14 N., of range 9 W. of the third- principal meridian, within that county, voted to subscribe to the
stock of the company in accordance with the provisions of
t;ect. 3 of the amended charter. Upon the authority of this vote
the trustees of schools of the township made the subscription
and issued thirty-two bonds of $1,000 each, bearing date Oct. 1,
1870, to make the required payment. These bonds were afterwards registered with the auditor of public accounts, and, upon
his certificate to the clerk of the County Court of Morgan
County, taxes were levied on the taxable property in the township to meet the interest as it fell due. In this way the interest
for the years 1871, 1872, 1873, and 1874 was paid; but in 1875
the taxpayers of the township commenced this suit in a State
court to enjoin any further taxation to meet the bonds, on the
ground that there was no authority in law either for the sub,cription or the issue of the bonds. That suit was transferred
by the bondholders from the State Court to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois,
wihere, on final hearing, the prayer of the taxpayers, complainants, was granted. To reverse that decree this appeal was
taken.
It is clear that art. 9, sect. 5, of the Constitution is a limitation on the power of the legislature to authorize taxation by
public corporations or the political subdivisions of the State.
The Supreme Court of the State has uniformly so decided.
,L ffzof v. Campbell, 49 Ill. 316; Harward v. St. Clair Drainage Co., 51 id. 130; Madison County v. People, 58 id. 456.
The same court also decided, in Trustees, &e. v. People (63 id.
299), People v. Dupuyt (71 id. 651), and People v. Trustees
of S lwools (78 id. 136), that statutes substantially like the
one now under consideration were unconstitutional, and consequently void, because the tax required was not for a corporate
purpose. It is conceded that if these decisions are to be followed the judgment below was right.
The first of these cases was decided at the January Term,
1872, and the court then took occasion to say it was the first

WEIGHTDIAN

v. CLARK.

[Sup. or.

instance in which the right of the trustees of schools to embark
in railroad enterprises had been brought to their attention.
The law then under consideration, like the one here, was not
passed until 1869; and we infer from this and other circumstances that such legislation had not been common in the
State before that time. The decisions since on the same question have all been one way; and this of itself would make it
highly improper for us to depart from them, unless they were
clearly wrong. As a rule, we treat the construction which the
highest court of a State has given a statute of the State as
part of the statute itself. It is only when, by giving such
construction a retroactive effect, it will invalidate contracts
which in our opinion were lawfully made, that we disregard
them. Here, however, we find nothing of the kind. Taxation by municipal or public corporations must be for a corporate purpose. It is not always easy to decide whether a
certain kind of tax is within or without this limitation; but
we think it may be safely said that, as a general rule, a corporate purpose must be some purpose which is germane to
the general scope of the object for which the corporation was
created. Such we understand to be the effect of the Illinois
decisions which are collected and commented on in Hfackett
v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86. A congressional township is one of
the principal subdivisions which Congress has provided for in
the survey of the public lands of the, United States for the
purposes of entry and sale. It is not necessarily a political
subdivision of a State or of a county. When Illinois was
admitted into the Union, section numbered sixteen in every
surveyed township, or its equivalent, if the section had before
that time been sold or otherwise disposed of, was granted the
State " for the use of the inhabitants of such township, for.the
use of schools." 3 Stat. 430, c. 67, sect. 6. It was eminently
proper, therefore, that the State should make these donations
the points around which the public-school system should be
organized. Hence the congressional or original surveyed townships were made public corporations for that purpose, and
apparently for that alone. Taxation for school purposes only
would be germane to such corporations, and no one would or
e.ould reasonably suppose that they were created for managing

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN

v. A-ni s Co.

the general affairs of a political subdivision of the State. As
was very properly said in People v. Trustees of Schools, supra.
" their creation is purely to aid in the great scheme of accowplishing universal education." They are pre-eminently
public-school corporations, and in the absence of legislative
powei under the Constitution can no more tax the people to
build railroads than an ordinary school district or an incorpo.
iated academy can use its funds in that way. A railroad may
help the people in a school district, but it can hardly be said
that the construction of a railroad is a school purpose. The
existence of railroads may and undoubtedly will make schools
more necessary, and school property more valuable; but the
construction of railroads is not necessary either to the establish.
ment or maintenance of schools. Railroads are the effect rather
than the cause of schools.
Congressional townships under the name of the "trustees of
schools" were incorporated for " school purposes" only. So
the act of incorporation in terms declares. Taxation, by the
corporate authorities, therefore on persons and property within
the jurisdiction of such a township, to build railroads, is not taxation for a corporate purpose, and the decree below, which followed the decisions of the State court, was consequently right.
-Decreeaffirmed

Osc=AN

v. ARmS Com~PA-Y.

1. Where it is shown by the opening statement of counsel for the plaintiff that
the contract on which the suit is brought is void, as being either in violation'of law or against public policy, the court may direct the jury to find
a verdict for the defendant.
2. A court is, in the due administration of justice, bound to refuse its aid to
enforcc such a contract, although its invalidity be not specially pleaded.
3. A c nsul.general of a foreign government, residing in this country, entered
into a contract, whereby, in consideration of a stipulated percentage, he
agreed to use his influence in favor of a manufacturing company here with
an agcnt of that government sent to examine and report in regard to the
purchase of arms for it. By exerting his influence, sales of arms were
made by the company to that government, and he brought suit to recover
the ptrcentagt. Hdd, that, in a court of the United States, there can be
no recovery on thy contract.

