Oct. 1880.1

COUNTY OF OUACHITA V. WOLCOTr,.

COUNTY OF OUACHITA V. WOLCOTT.
1. Warrants issued by a county in Arkansas are not negotiable paper in the
sense of the law merchant.
2. Where the county court has fixed, by its order, a time for calling in the
warrants for redemption, classification, or other lawful purpose, the holder,
who neglects or refuses to present them, as required by the order, and
the notice thereof given, conformably to the statute, has no right of action
against the county to enforce the payment of them.
ErIROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

3le. Augustus H. Gadand and 31r.

. TV. Compton for the

plaintiff in error.
Mr. U. il Rose, contra.

M.

JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced March 10, 1876, on fifty-four
county warrants of Ouachita County, of the State of Arkansas,
the plaintiff being a citizen of another State. The defence was
that the county court of the county in conformity to the act
of the Arkansas legislature of Jan. 6, 1857, made an order
Jan. 4, 1876, calling in all the outstanding warrants of the
county, including those sued on in this case, for the purpose
of examination, cancellation, and reissue, fixing Friday the
seventh day of April of that year as the limit of time
for presenting them. All holders were notified to deposit
them with the clerk any time prior to that date, and that
on their failure to do so they would be forever barred from
any claim thereon against the county. These warrants not
being presented, were, four days after that date, formally declared by the county court to be barred. At the time of the
original order calling them in they were the property of A. A.
Tufts, a citizen of the State of Arkansas, who, some six
weeks thereafter, sold them to Henry M. Cooper, also a citizen
of that State, both of whom had legal and actual notice of said
order.

COUNTY

OF OUACHITA V. WOLCOTT.

[Sup. Ct.

On these facts the circuit judge was of opinion that as
the plaintiff was a citizen of another State, and had brought
the present suit before the time limited for bringing in the
warrants under the order of the county court, they were
not barred under the statute, while the district judge was of
opinion that, because of the failure to comply with that order,
the suit could not be maintained. Judgment was rendered
April 8, 1878, in favor of the plaintiff, and the county removed
the case here.
The circuit judge does not appear to have rested his judgment upon any idea that the statute of Arkansas violated the
contract, and was, therefore, void. There is no foundation for
such a proposition, for the statute had been the law of the State
for seventeen years when the warrants were issued. They
were, therefore, subject to its operation. Nor is there any objection to this defence on the ground that the warrants were
negotiable paper in the mercantile sense. This proposition is
carefully considered and overruled in the opinion of this court,
delivered at this term, in Wall v. County of Monroe, supra,
p. 74.
But the citizenship of the plaintiff and the right to sue in
the Federal court seems to have been the main point on which
the judgment of the circuit judge rested.
Certainly, if the purpose or effect of the statute of Arkansas
was to deprive a citizen of another State of his right under
the act of Congress to prosecute any legal remedy he may
have in that court, it should to that extent be disregarded.
And the circuit judge probably treated the Circuit Court and
the county court as courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction over the
same subject and the same parties, and, therefore, disregarded
the final judgment of the county court barring the claim of
the holder which was entered during the pendency of the
suit in the Circuit Court. If this manner of looking at the
jurisdiction of the two courts were the true one, the result
For the county
reached by the court would not follow.
court, according to the course of procedure prescribed by the
statute, having first commenced proceedings, of which the
then holder of the warrants had due notice, and they not
being negotiable as mercantile paper, that judgment was prop-

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF OUACHITA v. WOLCOTT.

erly pleadable puis darrein continuance as a defence to the
action.
But we do not think this is the correct mode of viewing the
matter.
The statute of Arkansas, though a peculiar one, is a law
which the legislature of that State had a right to make, and
it is valid as to all county warrants issued after its enactment. It was designed to enable the officers who had charge
of the financial affairs of the county to bring before them
for review, adjustment, and renewal all the outstanding orders of the county, that they might know the amount of the
debt, detect forgeries and frauds, incorporate interest which
had been long standing in a new warrant with the principal,
assign each warrant to payment out of its appropriate fund,
and make arrangements for payment according to priority or
other just claim of preference. There can be no doubt of the
legislative authority to do this, and, as a means of enforcing
the power thus conferred, to declare that warrants not presented after due notice shall no longer exist as debts against
the county.
We see no reason to hold that such a proceeding is designed
to deprive a holder of these warrants of his right of action in a
court of the United States. The effect of it is the same in the
State and the Federal courts. The neglect of the holder to
perform the duty which the law imposed on him is a defence
in either court. If he had presented his warrants, they would
probably have been reissued, and this might have been a good
replication to the plea; or he could have sued in the same
court on his new warrants.
If, after presenting his warrants in due time, they had been
illegally declared void, or rejected, the matter might have been
inquired into by the court. But he had no right to disregard
the law, which was a*part of the contract on which they were
issued, or to seek to evade it by a suit in the Circuit Court,
after receiving notice that he was called on to comply with it.
His right to sue in the Circuit Court is not denied or refused;
but when that court comes to decide his case, the decision
must be governed by the law of the State under which such
VOL. XM.

36

HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

non-negotiable warrants were issued, by one of its muncil
bodies.
It is ordered to be certified that the plea and the facts cartifled to us constitute a good defence.
cudgment reverced.

HARTER V. KEBROCHAN.
1. A townshi I in Illinois and a taxpayer thereof, on behalf of himself and other
resident taxpayers, filed their bill in a court of that State against certain
State, county, and township officers and the "unknown owners and holders"
of certain township bonds, each payable in the sum of $1,000. The bill
prayed for an injunction to restrain the levy and collection of a tax to pay
the principal of the bonds or any interest thereon. A., a citizen of another
State, was the owner of all of them. Held, that he was entitled, under the
act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470), to remove the suit to
the Circuit Court of the United States.
2. A decree was rendered by the State court against A. by default, although
he was not summoned, nor served with a copy of the bill or any notice of
the pendency of the suit. On his application within the prescribed period
the decree was set aside, and he thereupon filed his petition to remove the
cause. Hedd, that it was filed in due time.
3. Neither the act of the legislature of Illinois, entitled "An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company," approved Feb. 25,
1867, authorizing townships to make donations to that company, nor the
amendatory act of Feb. 24, 1869, authorizing the issue of township bonds,
for the amount so donated, is in conffict with the Constitution of the
State.
4. The bonds of the township of Harter, dated April 1, 1880, signed by the supervisor and countersigned by the clerk of the township, reciting that they
are issued in pursuance of the authority conferred by those acts and an
election of the legal voters of the township, held on the tenth day of November, 1868, under their provisions, are valid obligations of the township,
although the donation was voted to the Illinois Southeastern Railway
Company, and they were delivered to a corporation formed, pursuant to
law, by the consolidation of that company with another.
5. As the records of the township show that the bonds were directed to be
issued and delivered to the new company, the township is, as against a
bonaacfde holder of them for value, estopped from denying their validity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

