DURKEE v. BOARD OF LIQUIDATION.

rsup. Ct

DURKEE v. BOARD OF LIQuimAunOx0

1. Williams v. Louisiana (supra,p. 637) reaffirmed.
2. After the bonds in question were issued, the General Assembly of Louisiana
passed an act creating the Board of Liquidation, and authorizing it to convert and fund all valid outstanding claims against the State. A subsequent

act declared the bonds to be void, and forbade the board to fund them.
Held, that the act withdraws from the board all authority to act in the
premises, and that the obligation of no contract is thereby impaired, inas-

much as there was no previous acceptance by bondholders of the proposition to fund, and no consideration had passed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Simon Sterne and Mr. George V. Biddle, with whom
were 1Mr. A. Sydney Biddle and Mr. James Lowndes, for the
appellant.
Mr. Gustave A Breauz and Mr. James Lingan for the appellee.
MR. JusTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was filed against the Board of Liquidation of the
State of Louisiana by Durkee and others, holders of a large
number of the bonds issued to the New Orleans, Mobile, and
Texas Railroad Company, which are part of the $2,500,000,
mentioned in Williams v. Louisiana,supra, p. 637. Its object, as
declared in the prayer for relief, is to have these bonds declared
legal and valid obligations, and for such other relief as the case
may require and to equity may seem just.
The case was heard in the Circuit Court on the bill, answer,
and evidence, and the bill dismissed. The complainants appealed.
In the case of Williams v. Louisiana, to which we have
already referred, the Supreme Court of Louisiana held all the
issue of bonds of the class on which the bill is founded to be
void because they were in excess of the $25,000,000 of indebtedness to which the State was limited by the constitutional
amendment of 1870.

Oct. 1880.]

DURKEE V. BOARD OF LIQUIDATION.

That amendment forbids the creation of any debt beyond
that sum until the year 1890. The act under which the bonds
now in question were issued was passed in 1871, and the Supreme Court of the State held them to be void because the debt
then in existence already exceeded the $25,000,000 limited by
the Constitution.
This decision of the State court has just been affirmed by
this court, and in doing so we have expressed our concurrence
in the grounds on which the State court acted.
Though neither of these decisions is binding on the appellants as an estoppel, because they were not parties to that suit,
the principle on which it was decided necessarily governs this.
The same objection to the validity of the bonds on which the
decision in the former case was supported is taken in the pres
ent case by the defendant and set up in the pleading. The
cases have been brought to this court and argued together by
the same counsel and on the same ground as regards the validity of the bonds. We refer to that case for the reasons which
satisfy us that the bonds are void.
There is another reason, however, why the present decree
should be affirmed.
The Board of Liquidation is a mere agent of the government
to enable it to carry into effect a plan of consolidating all its
outstanding debt and converting it, with the consent of its creditors, into a uniform bond, with the same rate of interest, and
providing additional security for its payment. The law under
which this liquidating process was to take place and which
created this board of liquidation, the present defendant, was
passed in 1874, some time after all these bonds were issued.
It did not, therefore, enter into the contract on which the bonds
were issued. It was an offer on the part of the State to issue
new bonds for all her valid bonds outstanding whenever the
holders chose to accept the terms on which the exchange was
to be made.
In 1876 the legislature of the State passed an act declaring
the bonds now in question void, and forbidding the board to
receive them as valid in the scheme of liquidation. The legis
lature undoubtedly had the right to forbid its own agent to
receive these bonds. This law may not have affected their

BONHAM V. NEEDLES.

[Sup. ot.

validity. It certainly could not make them void if they were
valid before. But it could prevent the board from exchanging
them for other bonds. There was no contract with the holders
of these bonds that this should be done, even if they were valid.
To make such a contract there is needed the acceptance of the
proposition of the State by the holder, and a good con.ideration. Neither of these existed in this case, when the legislature
%implywithdrew its proposition as to these bonds.

Dearee affirmed.

BoNiA.n

v. NEEDLES.

1. The rulings in Harterv. Kernodlian (supra, p. 562) reaffirmed.
. Although the records of a township, which was authorized by the statutes of
Illinois to make a donation to a railroad company, and issue bonds in payment thereof, contain no evidence of a meeting of the township, whereat
the qualified voters assented to the issue of bonds in payment of a donation, for which they have previously voted, the recital in the bonds, that
they were issued in pursuance of those statutes, is conclusive upon the
township in a suit brought against it by a bona fide holder, to enforce the
payment of them.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Thomas . Henderson for the appellants.
Mr. George A. Sanders for the appellees.
MR. JusTicE HAniL" delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit commenced in the Circuit Court for Wayne
County, Illinois, by Needles and others. Bonham and the
other complainants are taxpayers and real-estate owners suing in behalf of themselves and all other like persons in Big
Mound Township of Wayne County. The original defendants
were the auditor of state, the treasurer of state, the clerk and
the treasurer of the county, the collector of the township, the
First National Bank of Springfield, and the unknown holders
and owners of certain bonds (with their coupons), -five in

