THE " CONNEMARA."

[Sup. Cto

other appeal has been dismissed, and in this way the circumstances of the case are materially changed. It is easy to see
that what was sufficient security on this appeal when taken is
probably not so now. The bonds secured by the mortgage
according to the decree amount to several millions of dollars,
and the value of the security is necessarily subject to the fluctuations of trade. The appellants are to a considerable extent
interested in the same bonds, but if their debt is paid in full
they cannot complain at the execution of the decree.
The supersedeas herein will be so far modified as to allow n
sale of the mortgaged property to be made under the decree,
but the court below will retain in its registry, subject to the
order of this court until the final determination of the present
appeal, so much of the proceeds as shall be sufficient to satisfy
and discharge any balance that may remain of the debt due
these appellants, after the proportionate share they receive
under the decree upon the bonds and coupons held by them as
collateral shall have been applied thereon ; and it is
So ordered.

THE ,Co1o"mMA1A
Where salvors united in a claim for a single salvage service, jointly rendered by
them, the owner of the property is entitled to an appeal where the sum decreed
exceeds $5,000, although the Circuit Court deemed it proper to apportion the
recovery among the salvors according to their respective merits.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the

United States for the District of Louisiana, united with a motion
to affirm the decree.
M r. _ichard De Gray and Hr. J. B. Beekwith in support of
the motion.
Mr.Philip Phillips, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The suit below was by a set of salvors to recover for a single
4alvage service, and there was but one claim filed tor the prup

Oct. 1880.]

THE "CONNEMARA."

erty saved. The total amount of the recovery was $14,198,
but in the division among the several parties entitled to share
in the recovery some got less than 95,000. Separate and distinct interests were not united in the suit. The service rendered was the joint service of all the salvors, and the recovery
was on that account. It was a matter of no consequence to the
owners of the property saved how the money recovered was
apportioned among those who had earned it. The owners
were decreed to pay the salvors for what they, acting together
in a common service, had done. In such a suit we think the
owners cannot be deprived of their appeal because the court
below, in the further progress of the cause, saw fit to apportion
the recovery among the salvors according to their respective
merits. The decree is, in legal effect, one decree in favor of
all the salvors, they having, as between themselves, unequal
interests.
In all the cases where we have held that several sums decreed
in favor of or against different persons could not be united to
give us jurisdiction on appeal, it will be found that the matters
in dispute were entirely separate and distinct, and were joined
in one suit for convenience and to save expense. Thus, in
wver v. Bielows (5 Wall. 208), separate judgment creditors
joined to set aside a fraudulent conveyance of their debtor, and
the appeal was from a decree dismissing their bill; in Bich v.
Lanibert (12 How. 347), several owners of a cargo, who had distinct interests, united in a libel against the ship to recover for
damages done to the goods, and the appeal was from a decree in
favor of each owner for his separate loss; in Oliver v. Alexander
(6 Pet. 143), the libel was by seamen to recover their wages,
and the decree was in favor of each man separately for the
amount due him individually; and in Stratton v. Jarvis (8 id. 4),
the decree was against each claimant of the goods saved by salvage service for his separate and distinct share of the salvage.
The cases were heard, so far as the merits were concerned, precisely the same as if separate libels bad been filed for each cause
of action, and the decrees as entered were as in case of separate
suits. Bich v. Lambert, supra. Here, however, the matter in
controversy was the amount due the salvors collectively, and
not the particular sum to which each was entitled when the

RAILWAY

CO. V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. O

amount due was distributed among them. As in Shields v.
Thomas (17 How. 8), "they all claimed under one and the
same title. They had a common and undivided interest in
the claim, and it was perfectly immaterial to the appellants
how it was to be shared among them. If there was any diffi
culty as to the proportions, . . . the dispute was among them
selves."
The case, upon the merits, is one which we are not inclined
to consider on a motion to affirm.
Motions denied.

RAILWAY CONTPANY V. SPRAGUE.

1. A mortgage executed by a railway company, to secure its bonds, providen
that, in case of default for six months in the payment of the interest upon
either of them, the entire amount of the debt secured "shall forthwith become due and payable," and that the lien of the mortgage may be at once
enforced. The bonds themselves declare that, "in case of the non-payment
of any half-yearly instalment of interest which shall have become due and
been demanded, and such default shall have continued six months after
demand," the principal of the bond shall become due, with the effect
provided in the mortgage. Held, that, the mortgage being a mere security,
the terms of the bonds must control in determining when the principal ia
payable.
2. Overdue and unpaid interest coupons do not of themselves make the bond to
which they are attached dishonored paper. Cromwell v. County of Sac (93
U. S. 51) cited and approved, and Parsons v. Jackson (99 id. 434) distinguished.
3. The facts in this case show that the appellee is a bona.fide holder of the bondo
in controversy.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Joseph -E.McDonald and Mr. James Bmott for the appellant.
Mr. Clarkson N. Potter for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity in which the Union Trust Corn

