CLARK V. KILLIAN.

[Sup. Ut.

appeal was taken from a decree entered on our mandate upon a
previous appeal, we would, on the application of the appellee,
examine the decree entered, and if it conformed to the mandate, dismiss the case, with costs. The motion to dismiss in
this case was apparently based upon that ruling. It seemed to
us, when it was up for hearing, to have been made in good
faith; and while we did not think it ought to be sustained, we
could not say it was without any color of right. For that rea
son we felt at liberty to look into the motion to affirm.
The record in this case showed that Hinckley was appointed
ceceiver in the Kelly suit Nov. 24, 1879, and that his receivership ended by his turning over the property to the trustees of
the mortgage on the 12th of August, 1875. The record of the
former appeal, to which we think we may with propriety look,
as the order now appealed from was made upon a petition of
intervention filed in that cause, shows that in the settlement
of accounts then made Hinckley was paid for his services during the whole period of his receivership, that is to say, from
the date of his appointment in the Kelly suit until his final
discharge.
We are still of the opinion that the case is a proper one for
the application of our rule in respect to motions to affirm, and,
therefore, the petition for a rehearing is
Dened.

1. The settlement of lands by a man upon his wife is not invalid, if the righto
of existing creditors are not thereby impaired.
2. A bill of review is the appropriate mode of correcting errors apparent on tha
face of the record, and it was in this case filed in time, less than two years
having elapsed since the original decree was passed.
3. The court will not consider errors assigned by the appellee.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Co.
tumbia.
The facts axe stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Francis111iller for the appellant.
Mr. William J Miller, contra.

Oct. 1880.]

COLARK V.

MILLIAN.

AIR. JUSTICE H&ARL1" delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 24th of June, 1873, Clark, the appellant, obtained in
the court below a judgment at law against John Killian, administrator of William Scblorb, for the sum of $3,819.25, the
balance due from the deceased upon dealings with appellant,
commencing on the twenty-second day of November, 1865.

An execution upon the judgment having been returned no
property found, Clark exhibited there his bill in equity against
the administrator de bomis non, the widow, and infant children
of Schlorb, for the purpose of subjecting to the satisfaction of
the judgment certain real estate which stood in the name of
the wife and an infant son of Schlorb.
The real estate is thus described in the bill: 1. Lots 6 and
9, in square 654, of the city of Washington, conveyed Aug.
18, 1858, by Schlorb to John Killian, since deceased, in trust
fo- Lhe use of his wife, and free from liability for the debts
c.f the grantor. 2. Lots 5 and 8, in the same square, con7eyed Oct. 23, 1858, to the same person in trust for the sole
and separate use of the wife, and free from liability for the
husband's debts. 3. Lot 2, in the same square, purchased by
Schlorb from Baker and by the latter, in pursuance of directions from the father, conveyed, Oct. 5, 1865, to his infant
son, George L. Schlorb. 4. Lot 3, in the same square, purchased by Schlorb from Brown, and by the latter, in pursuance of directions from the husband, conveyed, Dec. 21, 1865,
to Killian, in trust for the sole and separate use of the wife,
and free from the control of the husband. 5. The north half
of lot 7, in the same square, purchased by Schlorb from Budle,
and by the former's direction conveyed, May 3, 1866, to,
Killian in like trust for the sole and separate use of the wife,
and free from the husband's control. 6. Lot 1, in the same
square, conveyed by Schlorb, Dec. 23, 1868, to Killian in
trust for the benefit of the wife, and free from the husband's
control.
The bill alleges that these several conveyances were by
Schlorb made and caused to be made with the intent to hinder,
delay, and defraud his creditors.
The answer of the widow was explicit in its denial of the
fraud charged, and alleged that the deceased, when the several

CLARK V. K ILLIAN.

[Sup. Ote

conveyances were made, was free from debt, in comfortable
circumstances, and engaged in a prosperous business; that only
one piece of the property was conveyed in trust for her, after
the dealings between Clark and him commenced and were in
progress. The infant children made a formal answer, by their
mother, as guardian ad litem, submitting their rights to the
protection of the court. An answer containing full denials was
also filed by the administrator de bonis non of Schlorb. Clark
filed his joinder of issue on the answers to his bill, and the
cause was submitted on bill and answers and replications,
without proof.
On the 17th of February, 1875, the court rendered a decree
adjudging that the conveyances for lots 1, 8, and the north
half of lot 7 were null and void, and they were sold under the
decree for the sum of $1,408.47.
Subsequently, on 18th June, 1875, a similar decree was rendered as to lots 2, 5, 6, 8, and 9. They were also sold, and
at the commencement of this suit the title was in Clark, the
appellant.
On the 4th of January, 1877, a bill of review was filed by
the administrator de bonis non, the widow, and infant children of Schlorb against Clark, for the purpose of setting aside
the foregoing decrees for errors of law apparent on the face
of the record. The bill set out all of the foregoing facts,
including the pleadings in the original suit, and Clark demurred. The demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed.
Upon appeal to the general term the decree of dismissal
was reversed and the demurrer overruled. The cause was
then submitted on the bill of review. Judgment was rendered setting aside the former decree as to lots 2, 5, 6, 8,
and 9, and affirming the one as to lots 1, 3, and the north
half of 7.
From the last decree both sides prayed an appeal to this
court.
The decree of the court below, so far as it relates to lots 2, 5,
6, 8, and 9, is in all respects right. Upon the face of the bill,
answers, and other pleadings in the original suit, there was
no ground whatever to assail the conveyances of those lots.
They were made before Clark had any dealings with Schlorb.

Oct:. 1880.]

CLARK V. KILLIAN.

and when, so far as the pleadings in that case disclose, there
were no creditors who could complain of any such disposition
by Schlorb of his property. Clark, therefore, could not have
given credit to Schlorb upon the faith of his ownership of the
property. The answers denied the allegations of fraud, and
there was no evidence to overcome the denials. The pleadings
in that case did not authorize the conclusion, as matter of law,
that Schlorb had conveyed or caused to be conveyed the property with the fraudulent intention of thereafter engaging in
business, or having business transactions, and, in the event of
financial embarrassment arising therefrom, to withhold it from
his creditors. Taking all the circumstances to be as they are
set out in the pleadings, it is perfectly clear that the court, in
adjudging the conveyances of the lots above named to be null
and void, and ordering them to be sold in satisfaction of
Clark's judgment, erred in point of law. Consequently a bill
of review was the proper mode of remedying that error.
The present bill was filed in time. Thomas v. .farvie, 10
Wheat. 146.
The appeal prayed by appellees in the court below from so
much of the decree as confirmed the original decree as to lots 1,
3, and north half of 7, has never been perfected. We cannot,
therefore, notice the errors assigned in the brief of counsel for
appellees.
The decree below, so far as appealed from by Clark, is,
without prejudice to any right which the appellees may havP
to an appeal,
Afflrme?

Tor. In!.

