[Sup. Ct;.

BROWN V. SLEE.

at least, to an agreement to subscribe, which, being accepted
and acted upon by the railroad company as such, created a
contract between the county and the company. In the case
before us, no act equivalent to the action of the board of supervisors of Moultrie County was ever done by any person or
body of persons, having, at the time of such act, a present
power to subscribe for stock or to issue bonds of the town of
Ellicott. The taxpayers had no authority to make a subscription of stock, or to issue bonds, or to make any contract to do
so; they could only express their desire that it should be done,
and that commissioners should be appointed to do it; and
when they did express such desire, it was conditional, as before
stated. The commissioners, as we have seen, had no power to
act, for no power was given them to act, until the railroad was
located and completed through Jamestown. It follows that
nothing which was done in the present case can be fairly regarded as equivalent to the action of the parties in the case of
Moultrie County. The circumstances of the two cases were
essentially different.
We think that there is no error in the record of either of
the cases, and that the decrees in both must be

Affirmed.

Blowvi v. S:L

.

A., the executor of the deceased member of a firm, entered into a contract In
writing with B., the surviving partner, whereby be sold and transferred to
the latter all the interest of the testator in the effects of the partnership
for a valuable consideration, consisting in part of lands. The contract also
stipulated that B. should, within five years from its date, if A. so desired,
'Cpurchase back" the lands at a certain price in cash. Hedd, that the respective rights and obligations of the parties under the contract were fixed
when A., within the five years, duly notified B. to make the purchase at the
expiration of them, and that, on tendering to B. within a reasonable time
thereafter a proper deed for the lands, A. could maintain a suit for the stipulated price.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1880.]

BROWN v. SLEE.

The case was argued by Mr. George G. Wright and Mr.
C ester C. Cole, with whom was 31r. William Al1 Randolph,
for the appellant, and by 3ibr. Charles C. Nourse for the appellee.
inR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit in equity and presents the following facts:
Prior to Aug. 6, 1870, Talmadge E. Brown and Jarvis
Langdon were partners in business. On that day Langdon
died, leaving a will, in which he appointed John D. F. Slee,
Charles J. Langdon, Theodore W. Crane, Olivia L. Langdon,
On the 25th of April,
and Samuel L. Clemens, executors.
1871, the executors and Brown entered into the following
agreement in writing:-

"The executors of Jarvis Langdon, deceased, for value received,
hereby sell, gssign, set over, and transfer unto Talmadge E. Brown
all the right, title, and interest of J. Langdon, deceased, in or to
the undivided property or assets of the late firm of T. E. Brown &
Co., of Memphis, Tennessee.
"Subject, however, to all taxes and assessments thereon, now
made or hereafter to be made, to all indebtedness therefor, and to
all liabilities of said firm or any of the members thereof, for transactions in the business of the firm in tort and contract, and subject
to all judgments against the said firm or any member thereof, recovered or to be recovered, and all costs, disbursements, officers
and counsel fees, and all liability for contribution to any other partner or person in consideration of moneys paid or to be paid upon
any liability of, from, and against all of which real or possible liabilities, and of, from, and against any other liability growing out of
the transactions of said firm, said Brown agrees to fully indemnify
and save harmless the executors, heirs, and next of kin of said J.
Langdon, deceased.
"And said Brown further agrees to pay and discharge any just
and legal claim of any person or persons whomsoever for any share
of the profits or proceeds of the business of said firm, whether said
claim be against the said firm or against the said Langdon, deceased,
individually, and to fully indemnify and save harmless the executors, heirs, and next of kin of said Langdon of, from, and against
any such claim; all the aforesaid agreements of indemnity to apply

BROWN v. SLEE.

[Sup. Ct.

not only to the liability growing out of the transactions of said firm,
but also to any possible liability growing out of the transactions of
the predecessors of said firm.
"Said Brown agrees to pay for such interest as follows:"First. Upon the assignment of the interest above mentioned
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in cash, together with the
further amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) in notes, satisfactorily indorsed by B. F. Allen, or other satisfactory indorsers, and
running from three (3) to eighteen (18) months at a fair average
time from these extreme points of time mentioned.
"Second. A certain tract of land consisting of one hundred and
thirty (130) acres, situated within the limits of the corporation of
the city of Des Moines, Iowa, and also a certain plantation situated
on the White River, in Arkansas, consisting of sixteen hundred
(1,600) acres of land, and all the buildings, improvements, and appurtenances belonging thereto. In reference to the lands in Iowa
and Arkansas, the purchaser hereby agrees that in five years from
the date of this contract he will, if the estate or its legal assigns so
desire, purchase back the lands for twenty-five thousand ($25,000)
dollars, paying that sum in cash.
"This agreement is upon condition that the aforesaid two tracts
of land are owned by said Brown in fee-simple, absolute, free, and
clear of all taxes, assessments, and incumbrances of whatever nature,
and that they shall, before this assignment shall be operative, be
conveyed by full covenant deeds to the executors of said J. Langdon, deceased, said conveyances to be executed also by the wife
of said Brown, and said executors to be furnished with properly authenticated abstracts of title thereof, showing the title
thereof to be perfect and that they are free and clear of all incumbrances.
"The executors further agree that upon the final performance
of this contract they will surrender certain notes now held by the
estate against T. E. Brown, amounting to the sum of seventeen
thousand dollars ($17,000), the aforesaid interest shall be assigned
upon the execution of said contract and the delivery of notes,
money, and deeds of the land as aforementioned.
"Said Brown is to have sixty (60) days within which to make
the delivery and payments described in this contract.
"Dated 25th April, 1871.
"The estate of J. Langdon, per

"J. D. F. SLEE, Executor and AttornV,
"T. E. BnowN."

Oct. 1880.]

BROWN

V. SLEE.

On the 25th of June, 1871, Brown paid the cash called for
by the contract, gave his notes, and conveyed the Des Moines
land to Charles J. Langdon. Thereupon the executors made
to him the following assignment: "In consideration of one hundred thousand dollars this day
received of T. E. Brown, as by the terms of our contract made with

him, bearing date April 25, 1871, we, the executors of the last will
of Jarvis Langdon, deceased, do hereby sell, assign, and transfer to
said T. E. Brown all our rights and all the right, title, and interest
Jarvis Langdon had in his lifetime in and to the property and
assets of the firm of T. E. Brown & Co., at Memphis, Tennessee,
subject to the terms and conditions of our said contract of April 25,
1871, above mentioned.
"J. D. F. SLEE, Executor.
"C. J. LANGDON, Executor.
"T. W. CRANE, Executor.
"SAMUEL L. CLEENs, E xecutor.
"OLIvi L. LAOGDON, .Executrix."
On the 3d of July, Brown took from Charles J. Langdon a
lease of the Des Moines land for five years, and, for the use,
agreed to pay the taxes and keep the premises in repair. Langdon, however, retained the right to sell the property, or any
part of it, in which case the lease was to terminate, so far as it
related to the property sold.
On the 30th of August the following supplemental agreement was entered into by the parties :"It is hereby mutually agreed by and between Talmadge E.
Brown and J. D. F. Slee and others, executors of the estate of Jarvis Langdon, deceased, that said Brown need not perfect his con
veyance to the plantation on White River, in Arkansas, as he is
required to do by contract with said executors, dated April 25,
1871, but may, in lieu thereof, transfer and assign to said executors
a certain judgment now owned by him against the county of Buena
Vista, State of Iowa, on which there is due to him five thousand
{$5,000) dollars, for the purposes named in said contract of April
25,1871, said Brown to guarantee the collection of said judgment.
"It is further understood and agreed that if said executors desire
it, said Brown shall, at the expiration of the five (5) years stated in
said contract of April 25, 1871, repurchase the 130 acres of land iN

BROWN v. SLEE.

[Sup. Ct.

the city of Des Moines at $25,000, the same as though the plantation aforesaid was included therein.
"And it is further understood that if any of said Buena Vista
judgment shall within said five (5) years be paid to said executors,
they will allow interest thereon at the rate of seven (7) per cent
per annum, and the principal so paid may be deducted from the
$25,000 to be paid by said Brown for the repurchase of the Des
Moines property.
"In witness whereof, said parties have hereunto set their hands
this 30th day of August, 1871.
"J. D. F. SLEE, .FXecutor,
"And Attorney for the Executors of the Estate of .".
Langdon, Deceased.

"1T&ALrmAnGE E. BROWNr."
On the 30th of October, 1875, Charles J.Langdon wrote
the following letter to Brown, which reached him in due course
of mail: "ELiRA, Oct. 30, 1875.
"T. E. BRowN, Esq., Des Moines, Iowa.
"Dn)EAR Sm, - My wife's health is so poor that I am obliged to go
away with her, and I shall sail for Europe Saturday next, for an
absence of four, six, or eight months. I have left all necessary
papers for the closing of our matters, the re-deeding of the Des
Moines land and all other necessary business, with Mr. Slee. The
balance of $25,000, less what has been paid on Buena Vista County
judgment, will be due April 25, 1876, and we shall desire the money
at that time as per contract.
"Yours truly,
C. J. LA-GDow, .Eecutor."
To this letter Brown made no reply until May 26, 1876,
when he wrote as follows : "DES MoIoEs, 26th May, 1876.
"CHAS. J. LANGDON, Esq., Elmira, N. Y.
"DEAR SmR, -Your letter to me last fall in regard to the land
did not seem to require an early answer, and I have delayed it un
til now. I shall not be able to pay you the money this year, and
propose the following, which I trust will answer your purpose:
25th April, '77, $5,000.00 and a like sum on the 25th day of each
April following, all unpaid sums to draw six per cent per annum
from April 25, '76, the land to remain in your name until it is paid.
The last payment will be fractional part of $5,000, of course. This

Oct. 1880.]

BROWN v. SLEE.

is small interest, but interest must in future be less than it has
been, and this is all I get on money that has been due longer than
this has to you. There has been nothing paid on the Buena Vista
judgment since remittance to you. The county are trying to have
the same set aside for some informality or fraud, and may succeed,
but I think not.
T. E. BROWN."
"Very truly yours, &c.,
On the 31st of May Langdon answered this letter declining
the proposition, and on the 4th of June Brown wrote him as
follows: "DEs Momxs, 4 June, '76.
"C. J. LANGDON, Esq., Elmira, N. Y.
"DEAR Sm, - I am in receipt of your favor of the 31st May.
You say the proposition does not suit you. This does not surprise
me. I did not think it would. I am very sorry I cannot pay this
money and take the land now. You must take such course in the
matter as seems to your interest. I do not ask or expect you to be
governed by what may seem to be mine.
T. E. BRowN."
"Yours, &c.,
On the 26th of June, 1876, the executors caused to be tendered to Brown a deed for the Des Moines land and demanded
the payment of $23,381.14, and again on the 17th of July they
tendered the deed accompanied with an assignment of the
Buena Vista County judgment. The money not being paid,
this suit was begun on the 19th of July to obtain a sale of tha
property to pay the balance that was due of the agreed sum of
$25,000, and if the proceeds were not sufficient to pay the
whole debt, to obtain execution for what remained unsatisfied.
Among the assets of the firm was a debt against one John S.
Baldwin. This debt was originally contracted to Langdon, but
afterwards, at the request of Langdon, the amount was transferred to the firm, Baldwin being charged and Langdon credited with it on the books. Baldwin became insolvent, and
a part of his debt has never been paid. By way of defence
to the original bill by the executors, Brown filed a crossbill, in which he alleged in substance that when this account against Baldwin was transferred to the firm, Langdon
individually guaranteed its payment in writing, and that in
vo. X1.
63

BRowN V. SLEE.

[Sup. Ot.

consequence he was permitted while in life to draw large sums
from the partnership. It was then averred "that the guaranty
of the said Langdon was always recognized and treated by him
(Langdon) as an individual gua anty, made upon his own personal account, and not as any part of the firm's business, or as
necessarily or properly connected therewith. That at the time
of the purchase of the interest of said Langdon's estate from
his executors as hereinbefore stated, it was believed, or, at all
events, there was a hope and a probability that something, at
least, upon the balance due from said Baldwin's account, and
possibly all might be collected, or in some manner realized
from said Baldwin. And that said claim against said Baldwin
was spoken of, and was the subject of conversation between
the parties at the time of the purchase, and the same was not
settled or adjusted or understood to be embraced in the terms
of the settlement for the reason, among others, of the hope
that the same might be realized in whole or in part from the
said Baldwin.
"And your orator, therefore, distinctly avers, as a substantive
and existing fact, that the claim upon Langdon's executors, by
reason of that guaranty, was not embraced in said settlement,
nor intended to be embraced, but was omitted therefrom for
adjustment between the parties in case the said Baldwin should
fail to pay any portion of said balance against him."
The contract between Brown and the executors, on which
the original suit was brought, was made an exhibit to the crossbill, and the prayer was that the estate of Langdon might be
charged with what was due on the debt. The executors demurred to the cross-bill, and on the final hearing in the Circuit
Court this demurrer was sustained and ai decree rendered on
the foregoing facts, finding due from Brown $26,320.87 for the
repurchase, and ordering a sale of the property to pay the debt.
From that decree Brown appealed.
There are two principal questions in this case, to wit: 1,
whether, on the facts, Brown is bound to purchase back the
Des Moines property and pay the balance of the $25,000 which
remains after deducting the collections on the Buena Vista
County judgment; and, 2, whether the demurrer to the crossbill was properly sustained.

Oct. 1880.]

BROWN v. SLEE.

To our minds the fair construction of the contracts on which
the case depends is that Brown purchased the interest of the
estate of Langdon in the partnership property for $100,000
payable $25,000 in cash, $50,000 in notes, and $25,000 in
the Des Moines land and Buena Vista County judgment, unless the executors concluded not to keep the land and the
judgment, in which event he was at the end of five years to
purchase them back and pay in money the $25,000 for which
they were taken, the executors crediting him with what had in
the mean time been collected on the judgment, with interest at
the rate of seven per cent per annum.
This is not only the fair inference from the language of the
contracts themselves, but it seems to have been the understanding of the parties as shown by their conduct at the time and
since. Thus, on the 25th of June, although Brown did not then
convey the Arkansas land, the executors made their transfer
of the partnership property, "in consideration of one hundred
thousand dollars" that day received. And when the Buena
Vista County judgment was taken in lieu of the Arkansas
lands, it was stipulated that all collections made within the
five years should be credited with interest on the $25,000 if
the executors desired the repurchase to be made. So when
Langdon wrote Brown on the 80th of October, 1875, he said,
"The balance of twenty-five thousand dollars, less what has
been paid on the Buena Vista County judgment, will be due
April 25, 1876, and we shall desire the money at that time as
per contract." He thus treated what was to be paid as a debt
which the executors desired to have met at maturity. Brown
evidently looked on the transaction in the same way, for, in his
letter written a month after the time for repurchase had expired, he made no objection to the failure to tender a reconveyance on the day, and demand the payment of the money, but
said, "I shall not be able to pay you the money this year, and
propose the following, which I trust will answer your purpose."
Under these circumstances, all that was necessary to put on
Brown the obligation to take back the land and pay the money
instead, was for the executors to signify to him in some appropriate way that they had concluded not to keep it in satisfaction
of the sum for which it was to be taken. This need not neces.

BROWN V. SLEE.

[Sup. Ct.

marfly be done on the day the repurchase was, under the contract, to be made. It was enough if at any time before the
expiration of the five years the conclusion was finally reached
and Brown properly notified. The reasonable presumption is
that the parties expected the election would be made before the
end of the time, because, as the money was to be paid on the
day, some preparation would ordinarily be required to meet so
large a demand. Time was material in the sense that the election must be made within the five years. If that was not done,
the obligation of Brown to take back the property was gone.
He was not bound to repurchase unless the desire that he
should do so was expressed in proper form before the time
elapsed.
We proceed now to consider whether the executors did in
fact make their election in proper form and within the time.
This depends entirely on the letter of Langdon under date of
the 30th of October, 1875, and the reply of Brown of the 26th
of May following. No particular form of election was provided for in the contracts. All they required was that the
proper representatives of the estate should, within the time,
express to Brown their desire that he "purchase back" the
lands under the contract.
The letter of October 30 was written by Charles J. Langdon
in his own name as executor, but he held the title to the property evidently with the assent of his co-executors. He wrote
that he had left all the necessary papers with Mr. Slee,
another of the executors, and concluded by saying that " v e
shall desire the money at that time as per contract." In
what he did he was evidently acting for the estate, and as his
acts have been adopted by all the executors as the basis of this
suit, it is clear that his letter was at the time the expression of
their will, and bound them so far as necessary to enable Brown
to get the title from him if the money was paid as the contract
required.
This letter did not in so many words say to Brown that
the executors desired him to repurchase under the contract;
but it did tell him they desired the money, which the contract
called for only in the event of his repurchase. This could not
be understood otherwise than as an expression of a desire that

OeK 1880.]

BROWN v. SLEE.

he purchase back the property, under the contract. And evi
dently it carried that idea to Brown, for he immediately began
to treat for terms, not because he claimed not to be bound, but
because, to use his own words, he was "not able to pay." His
conduct corresponded in all respects with that of the executors,
and his letter is not to be treated as a waiver of the neglect of
the executors to make their election at the day, but as a recognition of the fact that a proper election had been made and
accepted.
It is claimed on the part of the appellants, however, that to
enable the executors to recover they must prove "both an election to sell and the delivery or tender of a deed on the day
fixed for performance." As we have already shown, it needed
no tender of a deed on the day to require Brown to repurchase. It was enough if, before the expiration of the time, the
executors made their election that he should do so, and signified
it to him in proper form. That being done, the rights of the
parties respectively under the contract were fixed. Brown became bound to repurchase and pay the money, and the executors to receive the money and reconvey. Either party could
then require the other to perform, and neither could insist on
the default of the other, so long as he was himself behind in hi
own performance. Brown could not demand a deed until he
tendered the money, and the executors could not require the
money until they had offered a deed. Neither party offered to
perform on the day, and, therefore, one was as much in default as
the other. Such being the case, either party, after relieving
himself from his own default by performance or an offer to perform, could require the other to perform within a reasonable
time. Neither could insist thet the other had lost his rights
under the contract until he had himself done what he was
bound to do. The failure of both parties to perform on the
day was equivalent to a waiver by each of the default of the
other. The executors did offer to perform within a reasonable
time after the day, and we think are entitled to recover.
As to the cross-bill. Upon this part of the case it must be
assumed as a fact admitted of record, that when Langdon, the
deceased partner, transferred his debt against Baldwin to the
firm and got credit for it, he guaranteed in proper and legaJ

BROWN

V. SLEE.

[Sup. ot,

form its ultimate collection, and that it was taken on the faith
of this obligation on his part. The only question, therefore, is
whether, under the contract between Brown and the executors,
that obligation was assumed by Brown, or, in effect, discharged.
Brown took the assignment of the estate's interest in the firm
property, subject, among other things, to all possible liabilities
of Langdon for the transactions of the firm, and he agreed to
indemnify the estate against all liability growing out of such
transactions. The acceptance of the transfer of the Baldwin
debt was a firm transaction, and the guaranty of Langdon grew
out of that transaction. If the debt should not in the end be
paid, the balance might be charged back to Langdon when the
affairs of the partnership were closed up, and his interest in the
good assets would be diminished to the extent of such a charge.
The firm, as a firm, could not sue him on his guaranty.
All that could be done would be to take his liability into account when settlements and divisions were made between the
partners. This liability occupied a position in no material
respect different, so far as winding up the affairs of the partnership were concerned, from an ordinary overdraft in the
progress of the business. It was a liability to which Langdon
was bound to respond at the proper time. If, instead of buying out the interest of the estate, Brown had wound up the
affairs of the partnership and divided the proceeds, the balance
due from Baldwin might have been set off to the estate as so
much cash, but he could not have sued the estate directly on
the guaranty. The liability was one that could only be enforced as an incident to the settlement of the business, and a
statement of the accounts between the partners. The contract
between Brown and the executors made such a settlement and
such a statement of accounts unnecessary. Brown took the
place of the estate in the partnership, assumed all its liabilities to or for the firm, and agreed to pay $100,000 to the
estate for what would be distributable to it from the assets on
a full and final adjustment of the accounts of the individual partners, and the reduction of all the assets to money. That
was the evident purpose of the parties as expressed by the contract they made. The averments of Brown as to the obligations of the estate are contradicted by the terms of the written

Out. 1880.]

RICHMOND MINING Co. v. EUREKA MINING 0.

839

instrument to which he refers, and on which the rights of the
parties depend. There is no allegation of fraud or mistake
in reducing the contract to writing. It follows that the de
murrer to the cross-bill was properly sustained.
Decree affirmed.

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY V. EUREKPA MnMNG COXPANY.
E. and R., two mining companies, in settlement of the differences between them
respecting the possession of certain ground and the ores therein contained in
the Eureka Mining District in Nevada, entered into an agreement establishing between specified points on the earth's surface a boundary line between
their respective claims, and stipulating that E. would convey to R. all the
mining ground and claim lying northwesterly of said line, including "all
veins, lodes, ledges, deposits, dips, spurs, and angles on, in, or under the
same contained," and that R. would convey to E., with a covenant of warranty against its own acts, all its right, title, and interest in and to any and
all the land or mining ground situated on the southeasterly side of said
line, and in and to "all ores, precious metals, veins, lodes, ledges, deposits,
dips, spurs, and angles on, in, or under the said land or mineral ground."
The agreement further declared that it was the object and intention of the
parties to confine the workings of R. "to the northwesterly side of the said
line continued downward to the centre of the earth." Held, that the agreement must be construed as extending the boundary line downwards through
the dips of the veins or lodes wherever they may go in their course towards
the centre of the earth.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nevada.
This is a suit in ejectment brought by the Eureka Consolidated Mining Company against the Richmond Mining Company of Nevada to recover the possession of a valuable mining
property. The facts appearing in the findings, which, in the
opinion of the court, are decisive of the case, may be stated as
follows In Ruby Hill, a spur of Prospect Mountain, in the Eureka
Mining District, Nevada, is a zone of limestone, running in a
northwesterly and southeasterly direction for a distance of a
little more than a mile. Underlying this zone, on the southerly

