Oct. l60.]

1 .',AJ1I.1NA V. UNITED STATES.

the place of registry, or dispenses with it, so far as those are
concerned who are not parties to the mortgage, and that when
ten years have elapsed from the date of inscription without
reinscription, the mortgage is without effect as to all persons
whomsoever who are not parties to the mortgage. Adams & Co.
v. Daun s, 29 La. Ann. 315, and cases there cited.
In the case of Watson v. Bondurant (30 La. Ann. 1, pt. 1),
the same court held that no mortgage has any effect as to
third persons unless recorded; and, save in the single case of a
minor's mortgage on the property of his tutor, every mortgage
ceases to have effect, except as to the parties to it, unless reinscribed within ten years from the date of its original inscription, and that neither the existence of the pact de non alienando
in a mortgage, nor the pendency of a suit to foreclose the same,
obviates the necessity of its inscription or reinscription.
The decisions above cited, establishing as they do a rule of
real property in the State of Louisiana, are binding on this
court, and are conclusive of this case. Suydam v. Williamson,
24 How. 427; Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 162; Beauregardv.
CYity of -,ew Orleans, 18 How. 497.
The decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be affirmed,
and it is
So ordered.

LouisA.wA v. UNITED STATES.
In addition to the tax of one and one-half per cent, authorized by sect. 2. art. 3,
of her charter, the city of Louisiana, Mo., may, by mandamus, be compelled
to levy, assess, and collect a special tax, not exceeding one per cent per
annum, to pay a judgment rendered against her, whereon an execution has
been issued and returned nulla bona.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J11r. David P. Dyer for the plaintiff in error.
M1r. fJoIn D. S. Dryden for the defendant in error.
VoL. wnx.

19

LOUISIANA V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. O

MB. CHIEF JUSTIoE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The following are sects. 2 and 13 of art. 3 of the charter of
the city of Louisiana, Mo.: "SECT. 2. The city council shall have power within the city by
ordinance: First, to levy and collect taxes not exceeding one and
one-half of one per centum per annum upon all property made taxable by law for State purposes, and to provide for the collection of
the same by sale of real and personal estate in such manner as t'Ie
council may, by ordinance, provide."
"SECT. 13. The council shall not fix or reduce the rate of taxation to less than one and one-half of one per centum per annum
until two-thirds of such reduced rates of taxation shall be sufficient,
including all sources of revenue, to meet and pay all accruing interest for the year affected by such reduction, without increasing the
principal of the debt.'
Sect. 23, art. 7, provides that"If at any time the city council shall fail to make suitable provisions for the payment in whole or in part of any of its debts or liabilities contracted after the passage of this act, or heretofore lawfully
contracted, for the term of twelve months after such debt or liability
shall have become due and demand for payment made, it shall then
be lawful for the Circuit Court or Court of Common Pleas, before
which judgment of any such debt or liability shall have been obtained
to make and enter up any such orders, decrees, and appointments as
may be necessary for the levying, assessing, and collecting taxes in
the city not exceeding one per centum per annum until such debt
or liability shall be fully paid and discharged by the city authorities.
The amount so collected to be applied, under the decree of the
court, strictly to the payment of such debt or judgment."
Sects. 2415 and 2416 of the Revised Statutes of the State
are as follows : " SECT. 2415. Whenever an execution issued out of any court of
record in this State against an incorporated town or city shall be
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part for want of property whereon
to levy, such court, at the return term or any subsequent term
thereof, may, by writ of mandamus, order and compel the chief
officer, trustees, council, and all other proper officers of said city or
town, to levy, assess, and collect a special tax to pay such execution
and all costs."

Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA

v. UNITED STATES.

"SECT. 2416. The court shall determine the time within which
the levy and collection of such tax shall be made, and shall make
all necessary orders to secure the prompt and speedy payment of
such debt."

Wood, having recovered a judgment against the city in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri, for $22,226.40, which had remained unpaid for more
than twelve months, and on which an execution had been returned unsatisfied, the United States on his relation asked the
court for a writ of mandamus to compel the levy and collection
of a special tax for its payment. The city in defence claimed
that it could not under its charter be required to levy such a
tax, because it had already levied the full amount allowed by
sect. 2, art 3, and there were other judgments (enumerating
them) against it amounting with this to more than $100,000,
while its taxable property was only $907,200.
Upon the trial of the cause several questions arose which resolved themselves into the following: 1, Whether the city
could under the circumstances of this case be required to levy
taxes in any one year for more than one and one-half of one
per cent on the value of the taxable property within its jurisdiction ; and, 2, if it could, whether the additional amount could
exceed one per cent for all creditors having special judgments
or contract rights. Upon these questions the judges of the
court were divided in opinion, and they certified that fact here.
The presiding judge, however, was of the opinion that the relator was entitled to a peremptory writ of mandamus requiring
the levy and collection of a special tax sufficient to raise and
pay 69,000 a year on his debt until it with the costs was fully
satisfied, and a judgment was rendered accordingly. To re
verse that judgment the case has been brought here by writ
of error.
We are entirely satisfied that the view which the circuit
judge took of the case was right, and that the judgment should
be affirmed. The tax referred to in sect. 2, art. 8,of the charter
isevidently the ordinary tax which the necessities of the city
lemand, and before anything more can be required, a case must
I"e made for relief under sect. 23, art. 7,of the charter, or sects.
2415 and 2416 of the Revised Statutes, which are the same as

LOUISIANA V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

sects. 77 and 78, c. 160, of the General Statutes of 1865, p. 650.
There cannot be a doubt that the General Statutes embrace
this city. They in express terms apply to all incorporated
towns and cities. Whether, so far as this city is concerned,
the discretionary power vested in the court is limited to a tax
of one per cent for each judgment obtained, is a question we
need not decide, for in this case that limit has not been ex
ceeded. The taxable value of the property in the city is ovef
$900,000, and the tax each year for this judgment is limited to
$9,000. We are, however, entirely clear that under the charter it is within the power of the court to carry the tax up to
full one per cent for each debt on account of which such special
relief is asked. Both the Revised Statutes and this particular
section of the charter contemplate judgments against the city
which cannot be collected by execution. In such a case permission is given to apply to the court in which the judgment
has been rendered for special relief, or perhaps more properly
a special order on the city to make provision for payment.
What that provision shall be is left largely to the court to determine under the particular circumstances of each case, with
a view to securing the prompt and speedy payment of the debt;
but the money, when collected, must be applied strictly to the
payment of the particular debt for which the special direction
is given. Each tax must be levied and kept separate, but the
amount to be levied in a particular case may be made dependent somewhat on other levies for other judgments or debts
made payable at the same time. All such questions are with
propriety left to the sound judicial discretion of the court, with
a view to the prompt and speedy discharge of all the obligations
of the city, without unnecessarily oppressing the taxpayers.
The corporate authorities are fully empowered to tax to the
extent of one and one-half per cent, and should do so if necessary; but if more is required in any particular case, resort must
be bad to the courts. The city authorities must in all cases
make provision to pay all debts at maturity, if they have the
power under the law; but if their powers are too much limited
to enable them to do so, then the creditors have been given a
special remedy on appeal to the courts. The effect of the several statutes is to limit the ordinary powers of the municipality

Oct. 1880.]

BARBOUR V. PRIEST.

for taxation, but to give the courts ample authority, when a
judgment has been obtained, to enforce execution by requiring
the levy at a proper time, of a sufficient tax to meet the judgment. A mandamus in such a case is in the nature of an execution to collect the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

BAR-iOUR v. PRIEST.
1.In ordei to render a mortgage of real estate made by an insolvent debtor
void as a preference and fraudulent conveyance, within the meaning of
the thirty-fifth section of the Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867, c. 176 (14
Stat. 534), it must be affirmatively shown by his assignee in bankruptcy
that the grantee had reasonable cause to believe that the grantor was
insolvent at the time he executed the mortgage, and that it was made with
intent to defeat the bankrupt law.
2. Grait v. Natiunal Banh (97 U. S. 80) approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. A.
Mr. N.

.Dunn for the appellants.
. Leyinan, contra.

MR.JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee brought his bill in chancery in the District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio, as assignee in bankruptcy of Hubbard Colby, to set aside and avoid two mortgages, made to appellant a short time before proceedings were
commenced against Colby as a bankrupt. The District Court
rendered a decree against the assignee, which was reversed on
appeal to the Circuit Court, the latter holding the mortgages
void under the bankrupt law. From that decree this appeal is
taken.
Mrs. Barbour was the widow of Justus S. Barbour, and
guardian of his minor children, and Colby, the bankrupt, was
administrator of said Barbour's estate. He was the brother-inlaw of Mrs. Barbour, whose husband had been dead many years;

