358

WOLFE' V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ut

WOLFF V. NEW ORLEAINS.
1. As long as a city exists, laws are void which withdraw or restrict her taxing
power so as to impair the obligation of her contracts made upon a pledgu
expressly or impliedly given that it shall be exercised for their fulfilment.
Vron Hoffman v. City of Quincy (4 Wall. 535) cited on this point, and approved
2. Although such laws be enacted, mandamus, to compel her to exercise that
power to the extent she possessed it before their passage, will lie at the
suit of a party to such a contract who has no other adequate remedy to
enforce it.
8. Meriwether v. Garrett (102 U. S. 472), distinguished.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dis
trict of Louisiana.
Mr. George S. Lacey for the plaintiff.
Mr. Benjamin F. Jonas and Mr. Ienry

. Miller, contra.

delivered the opinion of the court.
In March, 1876, the relator, Rebecca W. Wolff, recovered a
judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, against the city of New Orleans, for the sum
of $13,000. Execution was issued upon it and returned unsatisfied. She thereupon caused the judgment to be registered,
under the act of the legislature of the State of 1870, known as
Act No. 5, of the extra session of that year, to the provisions
of which we shall hereafter refer; and then called upon the
mayor and administrators of the city to pay it out of the contingent fund of the corporation, or, if it could not be paid in
that way, to levy a special tax for its payment. The authorities having failed to comply with this request, she applied for a
mandamus to compel them to pay it out of that fund or to levy
a tax for that purpose, setting forth in her petition the recovery
of the judgment, the issue of execution thereon, its return unsatisfied, and the refusal of the city authorities, as stated. An
alternative writ was accordingly issued.
To this writ the city authorities appeared, and filed an answer to the petition, in which they admitted the recovery of
the judgment, the issue of the execution, and its return unsatisfied, and set up that the judgment was recovered on bonds nf
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

(Jt.180.]

WOLFF v. NEW ORLEANS.

the city issued to the New Orleans, Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad Company, under the act of the legislature of the
State, approved on the 15th of March, 1854; that no tax for
the payment of the p ncipal of those bonds was directed to be
levied by that act, or any other act of the State; that there
was no contingent fund of the city out of which the judgment
could be paid; and that there were no moneys to the credit of
the fund for current expenses, not otherwise appropriated; and
that for these reasons they had not budgeted the judgment or
levied a tax for its payment, and could not levy a special tax
for that purpose. In an amended answer they further set up
that at the time the bonds, upon which the judgment was re
covered, were issued, a general statute of the State prohibited
ruunicipal corporations from incurring any debt or liability unless in the ordinance creating the same full provision was made
for the payment of the principal and interest; and that a special
statute prescribing the form of the ordinance by which a particular debt could be created, declared that such ordinance
should be submitted to the legal voters of the corporation, and
that the assent of the majority of them should be a condition
,f its validity; that the ordinance thus submitted providing for
the issue of the bonds contained no provision for levying a tax
to pay the principal of them, but contained another provision
deemed ample for that purpose; and that, therefore, it was the
evident intention of the legislature that the principal debt
should be thus paid and not by means of taxation.
The relator demurred to the return of the respondents, but
it would seem that when the demurrer was called, the case was
submitted upon the pleadings and certain proofs which had
been filed. The court decreed that the city authorities, exercising the discretion vested in them according to section 3 of
Act No. 5, of the extra session of 1870, should appropriate
from the money set apart in the budget or annual estimate for
contingent expenses a sufficient sum of money to pay the judgment; but that if no appropriation be made by the common
council of the city, the judgment should be paid according to
its priority of filing and registry in the office of the controller,
from the first money in the next annual estimate set apart for
that purpose. The decree was accompanied by aprovision that

WOLFF v.

NEW

ORLEANS.

Lsup. Ct.

nothing therein should require the common council to assess oy
levy any tax upon the city for the payment of the judgment,
until the legislature of the State should authorize the same,
thus assuming that existing legislation did not permit any such
tax. To reverse this decree the relator has brought the case to
this court.
The act which authorized the issue of the bonds, upon which
the relator recovered judgment, provided that the railroad com
pany should issue to the city certificates of stock equal in
amount to the bonds received, and declared that the stock
should remain "forever pledged for the redemption of said
bonds." It made no other provision for the ultimate payment
of the principal, but provided that a special tax should be levied each year to pay the annual interest. It is contended that
only to the stock thus pledged and the income from it were the
bondholders to look for the payment of the principal. The
same position was urged in United States v. New Odleans, on
the application by the relator in that case for a mandamus to
compel the city authorities to levy a tax to pay judgments recovered upon similar bonds, and was adjudged to be untenable.
98 U. S. 381. The court held that the indebtedness of the
city was conclusively established by the judgments recovered
against it, and that their payment was not restricted to any
species of property or revenues, or subject to any conditions.
If there were any limitations upon the means by which payment of the bonds was to be had, they should have been
insisted upon when the suits were pending, and have been continued in the judgments. The fact that no such limitations
were there found was conclusive that none existed.
The court also held that if the question were an open one its
conclusion would be the same; that the declaration of the act,
that the stock which the city was to receive from the railroad
company should remain "forever pledged for the redemption of
said bonds," only created a statutory pledge by way of collateral security for their payment, and did not release the city
from its primary liability, and that the bondholder was not
bound to look to that security, but could proceed directly against
he city without regard to it.
The court further held that the statutes of the State restrain-

Oet -1880.]

WOLFF V. NEw ORLEANS.

ing municipal corporations from creating any indebtedness,
without providing at the same time for the payment of the principal and interest, were not limitations upon the power of the
legislature to authorize the creation of debts by such corporations upon other conditions; and though as a general rule it
was deemed expedient to prohibit cities from incurring debts on
their own motion, without making provision for their payment,
it did not follow that the legislature might not authorize the
incurring of a particular obligation without such provision ; and,
in the instance mentioned, the statute prescribed the details
of the ordinance to be passed by the city in execution of the
authority conferred.
The views thus expressed dispose of the objections to the
mayidanus in this case, founded upon what is contained in the
rail'oad act as well as what is omitted from it. Nothing new
has been presented to our consideration to lead us to doubt the
correctness of our conclusions. There is no occasion, therefore, to repeat the reasons upon which they were founded.
But counsel also urge in their argument against the granting
of the uamndamwis, that the power of a city to levy a tax upon
property for all purposes, judgments included, is limited by
acts of the legislature to one dollar and fifty cents on every one
hundred dollars of valuation, and that the amount thus raised
is insufficient to meet the current expenses of the city and pay
previous judgments of other parties. They repeat the averments of the answer, that there was no contingent fund of the
city out of which the judgment of the relator could be paid,
nor moneys to the credit of the fund for current expenses not
otherwise appropriated. They cite the charter of 1870, which
requires a budget to be made in December of each year, exhibiting the various items of liability and expenditure for the ensuing year, and the act of March 6, 1876, which limits the right
of taxation upon property by the city to one dollar and fifty
cents on every one hundred dollars of its assessed value. They
also insist that the conditions on which judgments against the
city are to be paid are prescribed in Act No. 5 of the extra session of 1870.

This last act provides that no writ of execution or fierifacias
shall issue from any of the courts of the State to enforce the

WOLFF V. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

payment of any judgment for money against the city of New
Orleans; but that such judgment, when the same shall have
become executory, shall have the effect of fixing the amount of
the plaintiff's demand, and that he may cause a certified copy
of it, with his petition and the defendant's answer, and the
clerk's certificate that it has become executory, to be filed in
the office of the controller of the city, and that thereupon it
shall be the duty of the controller or auditing officer to cause
the same to be registered and to issue a warrant upon the treasurer or disbursing officer of the corporation for the amount,
without any special appropriation of money therefor, "provided always that there be sufficient money in the treasury to
pay such judgment, specially designated and set apart for that
purpose in the annual budget or detailed statement of items of
liability and expenditure required to be made" by sect. 124 of
the act of March 20, 1856, amending the city charter, or by
subsequent legislation.
The act further provides that in case the amount designated
in the annual budget for the payment of judgments against the
city shall have been exhausted, the " common council shall have.
power, if they deem it proper, to appropriate from the money
set apart in the budget or annual estimate for contingent expenses, a sufficient sum of money to pay said judgment or
judgments, but if no such appropriation be made by the common council, then all judgments shall be paid, in the order
in which they shall be filed and registered in the office of
controller, from the first money next annually set apartfor that
purpose."
The respondents contend that, under these provisions, no
judgment creditor can claim that his judgment shall be paid
absolutely, for its payment is made to depend upon the conditions stated; or insist upon an appropriation in the budget for
any fixed sum, for this is controlled by the limit of taxation
and the amount of necessary expenditures to sustain the governinent of the city. The amount for judgments to be provided
annually, they say, is to be fixed by the kdi retion of the common council in framing the budget; and this discretion is to be
guided by the limit of taxation for all purposes, and the amount
required for police, lights, paving streets, public schools, and

Oct. 1880.j

WOLFP v. NEw ORLEANS.

ther necessary expenses of the city. These expendituies have
heretofore exhausted, and, if the limit of taxation prescribed
by the act of March 6, 1876, be enforced, will hereafter continue to exhaust, nearly all the funds raised. The balance renaining is, and, with that limit of taxation, always will be,
insufficient to pay any considerable portion of the earliest
jutdgments against the city. So the relator must wait for
aii indefinite period, -perhaps
until the statute has barred
hfr claim, - and take the uncertain chance of obtaining from
the city in the distant future any portion of the sun due to
tier.
The act of March 6, 1876, giving effect to what is known as
the "p-e mtm bond p)laa," does not hold out to the bondholder
the delusive hope of payment in the distant future, which flitters around Act No. 5 of 1870 ; it cuts him off absolutely, unless
he will accept the conditions of the proposed plan. It recites
in its preamble that the total debt of the city, bonded and floating, exceeds 522,000,000; that the taxable property of the city
has become so reduced in value as to require a tax at the rate
of at least five per cent per annum to liquidate the debt; that
a tax so exorbitant will render its collection impossible; that
the continuation of a tax beyond the ability of the property to
pay would lead to a further destruction of the assessable property of the city and to ultimate bankruptcy; and that the city
has adopted a plan for the liquidation of its indebtedness, looking to the payment of its creditors in full, "obtaining thereby
the indulgence necessary for the public well-being and the
maintenance of the public honor."
The plan proposed was an exchange of outstanding bonds for
premium bonds; the latter to be of the denomination of twenty
dollars each, bearing five per cent interest from July 15, 1875,
payable at no designated period, the interest and principal to
be paid at the same time and not separately, and the maturity
of the bonds - principal and interest - t6 be determined by
chance in the drawing of a lottery. One million of these bonds
is to be divided into ten thousand series of one hundred bonds
each. The ten thousand series are to be placed in a wheel, and,
in April and October of each year, as many series are to be
drawn as are to be redeemed, according to a certain schedule

WOLFF V.

MEW
ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct,

adopted., The bonds composing the series thus drawn are to
be entered for payment three months thereafter, principal and
interest, and are to be receivable for all taxes, licenses, and
other obligations of the city. At the expiration of the three
months the bond numbers of the drawn series are to be placed
in a wheel and 1,176 prizes, amounting to $50,000, are to be
drawn and distributed. Under this plan the city is released
from payment of the principal or interest of its debt, except
such portion as may be drawn from the lottery each year. As
justly observed by counsel in one of the cases before us, under
this arrangement, whether a creditor will be paid in one or in
fifty years, will depend upon the turn of a wheel and the drawing of a lucky number. Of course this plan disregards all the
terms upon which the outstanding bonds of the city -and,
among others, those held by the relator - -were issued, and
postpones indefinitely the payment of both their principal
and interest. To induce its adoption by the city's creditors,
the act, in its seventh section, provides that no tax for the payment of the principal or interest of other than the premium
bonds shall thereafter be levied; repeals all laws requiring or
authorizing the city to pay any such tax, and declares that it
shall be incompetent for any court to issue a mandarus to the
officers of the city to levy and collect any interest tax other
than on the premium bonds.
For the interest on the premium bonds and other purposes
of the city, the act provides that a tax of only one and one-half
per cent per annum shall be levied; and this limitation of the
taxable power of the corporation is "declared to be a contract
not only with the holder of said premium bonds, but also with
all residents and taxpayers of said city, so as to authorize any
holder of said premium bonds to legally object to any rate of
taxation in excess of the rate herein limited."
It is plain that if the provisions of this act can be sustained
as a valid exercise of legislative power, the judgment of the relator is practically annulled or rendered so uncertain of payment as to be of little value.
When the bonds were issued, upon which the judgment was
recovered, the city was by its charter invested with "all the
nowers, rights, privileges, and immunities incident to a munici.

Oct. 1880.]

WOLFF V. NEW ORLEANS.

pal corporation and necessary for the proper government of the
same;" and it could have provided the means, by taxation, for
their payment when they became due. As we said in the case
already cited, "the power of taxation is an incident to such a
corporation, and may be exercised for all the purposes authorized by its charter or subsequent legislation. Whatever the
legislature empowers the corporation to do is presumably for
its benefit, and may, in ' the proper government of the same,
be done." Besides the power thus existing at the time the
bonds were issued, the act providing for their issue directed, as
already stated, a special tax to be levied each year to meet the
annual interest on them. Such being the case, the question is,
whether the city has been divested of its power by the act of
1876, which we have mentioned.
The argument in support of the act is substantially this:
that the taxing power belongs exclusively to the legislative
department of the government, and when delegated to a
municipal corporation may, equally with other powers of the
corporation, be revoked or restricted at the pleasure of the
legis4ature.
It is true that the power of taxation belongs exclusively to
the legislative department, and that the legislature may at any
time restrict or revoke at its pleasure any of the powers of a
municipal corporation, including, among others, that of taxation, subject, however, to this qualification, which attends all
State legislation, that its action in that respect shall not conflict with the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United
States, and, among other things, shall not operate directly upon
contracts of the corporation, so as to impair their obligation by
abrogating or lessening the means of their enforcement. Legislation producing this latter result, not indirectly as a consequence of legitimate measures taken, as will sometimes happen,
but directly by operating upon' those means, is prohibited by
the Constitution, and must be disregarded - treated as if never
enacted-by all courts recognizing the Constitution as the
paramount law of the land. This doctrine has been repeatedly
asserted by this court when attempts have been made to limit
the power of taxation of a municipal body, upon the faith of
which coitracts have been made, and by means of which alono

WOLFF V.

NEW

ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot

they could be performed. So long as the corporation continues
in existence, the court has said that the control of the legislature over the power of taxation delegated to it is restrained to
cases where such control does not impair the obligation of
contracts made upon a pledge, expressly or impliedly given,
that the power should be exercised for their fulfilment. However great the control of the legislature over the corporation
while it is in existence, it must be exercised in subordination to the principle which secures the inviolability of contracts.
The case of Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, reported in
4th Wallace, is a leading one on this subject. There the legislature of Illinois had in 1851, 1853, and 1857 passed acts authorizing that city to subscribe for stock of certain railroad
companies, and in payment thereof to issue its bonds with coupons for interest annexed. Those acts authorized the city to
levy a special annual tax upon the property therein, real and
personal, to pay the annual interest upon the bonds, and required that the tax when collected should be set aside as a
special fund for that purpose. The city failed to pay the coupons held by the relator for a long time after they became due,
and refused to levy the tax necessary for that purpose. The
relator thereupon sued the city and recovered judgment. Execution issued thereon being returned unsatisfied, he applied to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois for a mandamus to compel the authorities of
the city to apply to the payment of the judgment any unappropriated funds they had, or, if they had no such funds, to levy a
tax under the acts mentioned sufficient for that purpose. The
court issued an alternative writ, to which the city authorities
answered setting up an act of the legislature of the State, of
November, 1863, authorizing the city council to levy a tax for
certain special purposes, such as lighting the streets and erecting buildings for schools, and also a tax on all real and personal
property to pay the debts and meet the general expenses of the
city not exceeding fifty cents on each one hundred dollars of
the annual assessed value thereof, and repealing all other laws
touching taxes except such as related to their collection, or to
etreets, alleys, and' licenses. And they alleged that the full

Oct. 188O.]

WOLFF

v.

NEW ORLEANS.

amount of taxes thus authorized was in process of collection,
that the power of the city in that respect was exhausted; and
that the fifty cents on the one hundred dollars when collected
would not be sufficient to pay the annual expenses for the year
1864, and the debts of the city. The relator demurred to the
answer, and judgment was given against him; but the case
being brought to this court, the judgment was reversed. In
delivering the unanimous opinion of the court, Air. Justice
Swayne said: "It is well settled that a State may disable itself by contract
from exercising its taxing power in particular cases. It is
equally clear that where a State has authorized a municipal
corporation to contract, and to exercise the power of local taxation to the extent necessary to meet its engagements, thG
power thus given cannot be withdrawn until the contract is
satisfied. The State, and the corporation, in such cases, are
equally bound. The power given becomes a trust which the
donor cannot annul, and which the donee is bound to execute;
and neither the State nor the corporation can any more impair
the obligation of the contract in this way than in any other.
The laws requiing taxes to the requisite amount to be collected, in force when the bonds were issued, are still in force
for all the purposes of this case. The act of 1868 is, so far as
it affects these bonds, a nullity. It is the duty of the city to
impose and collect the taxes in all respects as if that act had
not been passed. A different result would leave nothing of the
contract, but an abstract right, - of no practical value, - and
render the protection of the Constitution a shadow and a delusion." 4 Wall. 535, 554.
The prohibition of the Constitution against the passage of
laws impairing the obligation of contracts applies to the contracts of the State, and to those of its agents acting under its
authority, as well as to contracts between individuals. And
that obligation is impaired, in the sense of the Constitution,
when the means by which a contract at the time of its execution could be enforced, that is, by which the parties could be
,,',hVqed to perform it, are rendered less efficacious by legislation
,operating directly upon those means. As observed by the
court in the case cited, "without the remedy the contract may

WOLFF v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ot.

indeed, in the sense of the law, be said not to exist, and its
obligation to fall within the class of those moral and social
duties -which depend for their fulfilment wholly upon the will
of the individual. The ideas of validity and remedy are inseparable, and both are parts of the obligation which is
guaranteed by the Constitution. The obligation of a contract 'is the law which binds the parties to perform their
agreement.'"
The restraint upon the legislature, to the extent mentioned,
by the contract clause of the Constitution, against revoking or
limiting the power of taxation delegated by it to municipal
bodies as the means of carrying out the purposes of their incorporation or purposes designed for their benefit, is a different
matter from that of exempting property from taxation; and
even in the latter case it has been adjudged in repeated
instances that one legislature can bind its successors. The
restraint in no respect impairs the taxing power of the existing
legislature or of its successors, or removes any property from
its reach.
These views are not inconsistent with the doctrine declared
by the decision of the court in the recent case of lleriwether v.
Garrett, 102 U. S. 472. There the charter of the city of
Memphis had been repealed, and the State had taken the control and custody of her public property, and assumed the collection of the taxes previously levied, and their application to
the payment of her indebtedness. The city with all her officers having thus gone out of existence, there was no organization left - no machinery - upon which the courts could act by
mandamus for the enforcement of her obligations to creditors.
The question considered, therefore, was whether the taxes
levied before the repeal of the charter, but not paid, were
assets which the court could collect through a receiver and
apply upon judgments against the city.
Here, the municipal body that created the obligations upon
which the judgment of the relator was recovered, existing with
her organization complete, having officers for the assessment
and collection of taxes, there are parties upon whom the courts
can act. The courts, therefore, treating as invalid and void
thie legislation abrogating or restricting th@ power ot taxation

Oct. 1880.]

WOLFF V. NEW ORLEANS.

delegated to the municipality, upon the faith of which contracts
were made with her, and upon the continuance of which alone
they can be enforced, can proceed and by mandamus compel,
at the instance of parties interested, the exercise of that power
as if no such legislation had ever been attempted. And that
the relator seeks to have done here.
Following the doctrine of Yon Hoffman v. City of Quinoy,
we are of opinion that the act of March 6, 1876, the provisions
of which we have stated, is invalid so far as it limits the power
which the city possessed, when the bonds upon which the relator has recovered judgment were issued, to levy a tax for
their payment. In thus limiting the power without providing
other adequate means of payment of the bonds, the legislature
has impaired the obligation of the contract between her and
the city.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to issue the
writ as prayed in the petition of the relator; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN. I concur in the opinion just delivered, except the paragraph in which reference is made to Afferiwter v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472. The present case does not
require us to determine any question as to the effect which the
repeal of a municipal charter may have upon the rights of
existing creditors. Nor do I wish to be understood as assenting to the correctness of the statement in the opinion as to
what was involved and decided in Meriwether v. Garrett.

To&. IzLr

