INSURANCE CO. V. KIGER.

[Sup. Ct.

INSURAME COMPANY V. KIGER.
1. Where a factor has against his consignor no interest in the consigned property, he cannot pledge it for his own debt. Such a pledge, although accompanied by a warehouse receipt setting forth that the property is deliverable
to the pledgee, is, under the laws of Louisiana, invalid, and confers upon
him no title adverse to that of the consignor.
1. In such a case, the obligation imposed by those laws upon the warehouseman
is discharged by his surrender of the property pursuant to judicial process
sued out by such consignor, notice of which he gave to the pledgee.
3. A warehouseman is not a guarantor of the title of property placed in his
custody, although his receipts therefor are by statute negotiable.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
On the 11th of March, 1876, the General Assembly of Louisiana passed an act, No. 72, entitled "An Act governing the
manner in which cotton-press receipts, warehouse receipts, or
the receipts of other custodians of any property whatever, shall
be issued, in all cases where such receipts shall or may be used
or pledged as collateral security for money advanced or borrowed on faith of the property therein specified, and governing
the delivery and disposal of the property for which such receipts
may be issued." The sections important to this case are as fol-

lows: -

"SEcT. 1. Be it enacted, &c., that no cotton-press, or other custodian or custodians of produce or property, shall issue any receipt,
or other voucher, for any produce, merchandise, or other property,
to any person or persons purporting to be the holder, owner, or
owners thereof, unless such produce, merchandise, or other property shall have been actually received into store, or upon the prem.
ises of such cotton-press, or other custodian or custodians, shall
be in the store, cotton-press, or warehouse, or on the premises
aforesaid, or under his or their control at the time of issuing such
receipt.
"SECT. 2. That any person, firm, or association who shall or may
be, or in any way become the custodians of any property, goods,
products, or merchandise whatever, and who may issue receipts
therefor, shall not, under any circumstances, or upon any order or
guarantee whatever, deliver property for which such receipts have

Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO. v. KIGER.

been issued, until the party or parties to whom the receipts were
i.ssued, or the legal holders thereof, shall have surrendered the same
to said custodians for cancellation, and in default of a strict compliance with the provisions of this section of this act, they may be

held liable by the legal holder or owner of their receipt, for the market value of the property therein described, as may be established
by the chamber of commerce of the city of New Orleans, or any
committee thereof, approved and authenticated by the president or
vice-president of said chamber of commerce. All warehouse receipts, intended for pledge, under the provisions of this act, shall be
paraphed, before being issued, as follows: 'fbr hypothecation in
accordance with the provisions of this act.'"
"SECT. 4. That parties who may borrow money on the faith of
warehouse receipts, representing property in store, shall file their

affidavit with the pledgees that such property is theirs, the pledgers',
personal property, or that it, is the property of some party for whom
the pledger is acting as agent, factor, commission merchant, or in
any other fiduciary capacity, and that said party is justly and truly
indebted to the pledger in an amount equal in value to the value of
the property pledged, as specified in the warehouse receipts, for
moneys paid to him, or paid by his order, and for his account, by
the party or consignee making the pledge. The cashier of a bank,
or the secretary of any insurance company, incorporated or working under any law in the United States, or of this State, is hereby
authorized to administer the oath contemplated under the provisions
of this act. Any deviation therefrom shall render the party or parties so deviating liable for the value of the property, or any excess
in value, over and above the amount for which it may have been
pledged, in any manner specified in section one of this act, and to
prosecution for perjury, and also to obtaining money under false
pretences.
"SECT. 5. That the vendor's lien of five days' privilege, now allowed in commercial transactions, for the payment of the purchase
price, shall not be affected by the provisions of this act, except in
case in which a warehouse receipt has been pledged as collateral for
money borrowed. The holder of the warehouse receipt shall be
considered and held as the actual owner of the property described
in the receipt, and no clause in this act shall operate to the detriment or injury of the holder of a warehouse receipt, to the extent
of the value of the property specified, made, and issued in accord%nee with, and under the provisions of this act: Provicde, that
where the factor, agent, or pledger may have wrongfully pledged, in
VoL. Xi,

9

INSURANCE CO. V. KIGER.

[Sup. Ct.

violation of this act, any property, the lien of the owner shall be
valid, even against the third holder of the warehouse receipt."
"SECT. 8. That all warehouse receipts, as by this act provided,
shall be negotiable by indorsement in blank, or by special indorsement, in the same manner and to the same extent as bills of exchange and promissory notes now are."
On the 19th of March, 1877, Basil G. Kiger, a planter in
Mississippi, consigned to Aiken & Watt, his factors in New
Orleans, one hundred and ninety-six bales of cotton, with instructions not to sell, but to hold for further directions and better
prices. The cotton reached New Orleans March 21, and was
stored by Aiken & Watt in the cotton-press of Sam. Boyd &
Co. Aiken & Watt had no pecuniary interest whatever in the
cotton, and Kiger, the consignor, was not indebted to them.
On the contrary, they were largely indebted to him. On the
26th of March, Aiken & Watt borrowed of the Mechanics'
and Traders' Insurance Company $4,500, for which they gave
their notes to the company, payable in forty days, at eight per
cent interest, secured by a cotton-press receipt of Boyd & Co.,
of which the following is a copy:"NE.w ORAENs, March 26, 1877.
"Received from Aiken & Watt the following-described property,
to wit: one hundred bales cotton, marked < K>,ex. Pargoud,
March 21, 1877. Shipper's press. (Printed indorsement in the
body of the receipt:) 'The within cotton will not be delivered except on the return of this receipt to the press, properly indorsed.'
Deliverable to the Mechanics' and Traders' Insurance Co. or order.
"SAm. BoYD & Co."
Indorsement on the back of the receipt printed: "Deliver to
or order the within-described property. The
above order is accepted, and the property is transferred to "SAm. BoYD & Co.
Afterwards, on the 3d of April, Aiken & Watt borrowed
$2,500 more from the company, and gave a similar press receipt
for ninety-six bales as security. The cotton embraced in these
receipts was that which belonged to Kiger.
Before the maturity of these notes Aiken & Watt failed.

Oet. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO. V. KIGER.

The notes were protested for non-payment when due, and the
makers were adjudicated bankrupts June 16, 1877.
On the 18th of April, 1877, Kiger brought this suit against
Boyd & Co., to recover the possession of his cotton. It was
delivered to him under the writ which was issued, he giving
bond according to law to return it in case of judgment against
him to that effect. Afterwards the insurance company was
called into the suit by Boyd & Co., and made a defendant by
Kiger. The insurance company answered, setting up its claim
to the property. Upon the trial, the foregoing facts appearing,
the jury were instructed to return a verdict in his favor against
the company.
To reverse the judgment rendered on that verdict, the case
is now here by writ of error.
Mr. Thomas Hun ton for the plaintiff in error.
11r. JosephP. Hornor, Mr. W. S. Benedict, and Ir. Thomas
J. Seinknes, contra.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
There are two questions in this case: 1, whether the insurance company can hold the cotton as against Kiger; and, 2,
whether, if it cannot, Boyd & Co. are liable for the amount for
which their receipts were pledged.
1. As to Kiger. Before the act of 1876 it was settled by
numerous decisions in Louisiana that a factor could not pledge
for his own debts the property of his principal. Stetson v.
Gurney, 17 La. 166; Hadwin v. F k, 1 La. Ann. 43-74; Miller
v. Sohneider &" Zaberbier, 19 id. 300; Young v. Scott &' Cage
and tjaarov, 25 id. 313. The act of 1876 does not, as it seems
to us, materially enlarge this power, so far as the facts of this
case are concerned. It makes warehouse receipts the representatives of property in store, and provides for their use to
borrow money on; but the implication is clear that their use ii.
that way by a factor for more than the value of his interest in
the property would be wrongful and invalid against the owner.
This we do not understand to be disputed by the counsel for
the plaintiff in error. His claim is that there was in this case
no pledge, but, "as the effect of the stipulation in the press

356

INSURANCE CO. v. KIGER.

(Sup. Ct.

receipts," "an absolute transfer of the legal title to the insurance
company by parties in possession having the absolute control
of the property, and the security was thus taken to enable the
insurance company to sell the cotton and reimburse themselves
if the debt was not paid." The transaction between the parties was certainly not a sale, and in the answer of the company it is distinctly stated that the cotton was delivered into
the possession of the company to be held as security for the
payment of the notes given for the money borrowed. Undoubtedly the possession of the receipts was equivalent to the
possession of the property, but the title which the company
acquired was such as grew out of its contract with the factors.
That clearly was a pledge and nothing more. There was,
first, the cotton ; second, the debt for the money borrowed; and..
third, the delivery of the property into the possession of the
creditor, to be held as security for the debt. These are all the
elements of a pledge, and fix the rights of the parties. Aiken
& Watt were the pledgors, but as they were only factors and
had no interest in the property as against Kiger, the owner,
their pledge was wrongful and invalid as to him. The pledge
was by a factor of the property of his principal, in which he
had no interest whatever, as security for his own debt.
2. As to Boyd & Co. They were simply warehousemen.
Their duty under the law was not to issue receipts until they
had the property actually in store, and not to deliver the property until the receipts were surrendered for cancellation. They
did have the property in store when they gave the receipts,
and as soon as it was takdn from them by judicial process they
notified the insurance company, and upon that notice the company is now here asserting its title. This is a substantial compliance with their obligation not to deliver without a surrender
of the receipts. There is no pretence of fraud or collusion,
and we think it would be a surprise to warehousemen to be
told, that when they issued their receipts for property in store
they became not only responsible as custodians of the property,
but guarantors of its title to the assignees of their receipts.
Such a rule would make it necessary for a warehouseman,
before giving a receipt, not only to ascertain whether he had
the property actually in store, but whether the title (ifthe

uc .1880.]

INSURANCE CO. V. KIGER.

bailor was valid and unincumbered. Certainly this could not
have been in contemplation when warehouse receipts were
made by statute negotiable and to some extent evidence of
ownership. The dity of the warehouseman is performed when
lie gets the property into his own possession before he issues
the receipt, and transfers that possession when demanded to
the lawful holder of the receipt.
In this case the liability of Boyd & Co. is just what it would
have been if the company had put the cotton in store and taken
a receipt to its own order. The fact that Aiken & Watt originally stored the property is a matter of no importance so far as
Boyd & Co. are concerned. The receipt in the hands of the
company represented the cotton stored by Aiken & Watt, and
aav- the company the same rights it would have had if the
cotton, instead of the receipt, had been handed over. The
company got by the receipt such interest in the cotton as
Aiken & Watt could by their pledge convey, and that is all
Boyd & Co. agreed to deliver on the return of their receipt.
Boyd & Co. cannot, as against the company, say they never
had the cotton, or that they did not promise to deliver it on
the return of their receipt by the lawful holder. They received
the actual possession of the property from Aiken & Watt, and
that possession they agreed to deliver to the insurance company when called on. This, as has just been seen, they have
in legal effect done, and the rights of the parties in this case
are to be determined precisely as they would be if the company had got the cotton from Boyd & Co., on the surrender
of the receipts, and had afterwards been sued by Kiger for its
possession.
Judgment affirmed.

