GREEN v.

FISK.

[Sup. Or.

the whole sum falling due for that failure, had reference to the
money which the city had agreed to pay for the use of water
in the public buildings and certain hydrants which were to be
for public use.
If there was any such fault in the city it was matter of deience to be made out by the defendant, for the innocent purchaser of the bonds could not be supposed to know whether the
city had paid as it should or not. No such case is made by
the appellant. On the contrary, it appears that the appellant
did not construct the works, but let out the job to Dennis Long
and Samuel A. Miller; that by reason of their failure to do the
work according to the contract of the company with the city,
the latter refused to accept it, and the company sued Long and
Miller for that cavse and attached the work they had constructed, which suit was pending when the foreclosure suit
began, the record of the former being made a part of the latter.
It was obviously the fault of the appellant and not the city
which caused the default in paying the coupons.
These are all the errors assigned, and they are not sustained
by the record.
-)ecree affirmed.

GREEn v. FISK.
Upon a petition filed by A., alleging that he was the owner of an undivided half
of certain real estate which was not susceptible of a division, and praying
for a partition thereof by sale, the court below decreed that he was ent.
tied to one-half of the property, and referred the case to a master, "to
proceed to a partition according to law, under the direction of the court."
Held, that this is not a final decree, and that an appeal does not lie there.
from.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Thomas J. Durant and Mr. Charles W. Honor in support
of the motion.
Mr. Thomas . Semmes, coitra.

Oct. 1880.]

crREEN v. FISK.

MR. Ca= JusTCam WArm delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit begun by Mrs. Fisk, the appellee, in a State
court of Louisiana, to obtain a partition of real property. She
alleged that she was the owner of one-half the property; that
she was not willing to continue her joint ownership, and that a
partition by sale was necessary, as a division could not be made
in kind. The prayer of her petition was in accordance with
these allegations.
Green, the defendant below, being a citizen of California,
removed the case to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana. In that court, on the 31st of March,
1879, Mrs. Fisk was decreed to be the owner of one-half the
property, and the case was referred to "J. W. Gurley, Esq.,
master, to proceed to a partition according to law, under the
direction of the court." From that decree an appeal was taken
by the defendant, which Mrs. Fisk now moves to dismiss,
because the decree appealed from is not the final decree in the
cause.
We think the motion must be granted. In the Circuit Court
the suit was one in equity for partition. Although no formal
order was entered assigning it to the equity side of the court,
that was clearly its proper place, and it was so treated by the
parties and the court.
In partition causes, courts of equity first ascertain the rights
of the several persons interested, and then make a division of
the property. After the division has been made, and confirmed
by the court, the partition, if in kind, is completed by mutual
conveyances of the allotments to the several parties. Mitford,
Eq. P1. (4th ed. by Jeremy), 120; 1 Story, Eq., sect. 650;
2 Daniell, Ch.Pr. (4th Am. ed.) 1151.
A decree cannot be said to be final until the court has completed its adjudication of the cause. Here the several interests
of the parties in the land have been ascertained and determined, but this is merely preparatory to the final relief which
is sought; that is to say, a setting off to the complainant in
severalty her share of the property in money or in kind. This
can only be done by a further decree of the court. Ordinarily,
in chancery, commissioners are appointed to make the necessary

GREEN V.

FISK.

[Sup. Ct.

examination and inquiries and report a partition. Upon the
coming in of the report the court acts again. If the commissioners make a division the court must decide whether it shall
be confirmed before the partition, which is the primary object
of the suit, is complete. If they report that a division cannot
be made and recommend a sale, the court must pass on this
view of the case before the adjudication between the parties
can be said to be ended.
In this case a partition by sale was asked for, because the
property was not susceptible of division in kind. That the
court has not ordered, and the reference to the master was
undoubtedly to ascertain, among other things, whether such a
proceeding was in fact necessary in order to divide the property.
The master was in everything to proceed under the direction
of the court. He had no fixed duty to perform. He was the
mere assistant of the court, not in executing its process, but in
completing its adjudication of the partition which was asked.
There are still questions, in which the parties have each a direct
interest, and they must be determined judicially before the
relief has been granted which the suit calls for.
In foreclosure suits it has been held that a decree which
settles all the rights of the parties and leaves nothing to be done
but to make a sale and pay over the proceeds is final for the
purposes of an appeal. The reason is that in such a case the
sale is the execution of the decree of the court, and simply
enforces the rights of the parties as finally adjudicated. Here,
however, such is not the case, because still the court must act
judicially in making the partition it has ordered. What remains
to be done is not ministerial but judicial. The law has prescribed no fixed rules by which the officers of the court are to
be governed in the performance of the duty assigned to them.
The court is still to exercise its judicial discretion in directing
the movements and approving the acts of its assistants, until it
has finally settled and determined on the details of the partition, if made in kind, or directed a sale by the ministerial
officers and prescribed the rules for a division of the proceeds.
Appeal dismised.

