STOUT v. LYE.

[Sup. Ct.

law and of equity, to enter the decree as of the term when, in
the lifetime of Stutzman, the cause, after argument, was finally
submitted for decision.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE.- Bank of United States v. Weisiger, 2 Pet. 481; Clay v. Smith, 3 id. 411;
Grisuold v. Hill, I Paine, 484; Gray v. Brignardello, 1 Wall. 627; Campbell v.
Misier, 4 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 342; Vrom v. Ditmas, 5 Paige (N. Y.), 628; Wced
v. Keyes, 6 id. 418, 478; Perry v. Wilson, 7 Alass. 393 ; Currierv. Lowdl, 16 Pick.
(Mass.) 170; Slickney v. Davis, 17 id. 169; Springfidd v. Wooster, 2 Cush. (Mlass.)
62; H1ess v. Cole, 3 Zabr. (N. J.) 116; Cumber v. Wane, 1 Stra. 426; Astley v. Reynolds, 2 id. 915; To!er v. Duke of Beaufort, 1 Burr. 746; Trelawney v. Bishop of
Winchester, 2 id. 219; Davies v. Davies, 9 Ves. Jr. 461; Bdsham v. Percival,
8 Hare, 157; 2 Coop. 176; Green v. Cobden, 4 Scott, 486; Lawrence v. Hodgson,
1 Y. & J. 368; Freeman v. Tranah, 12 C. B. 406; Collinson v. Lister, 1 Jurist, xe.a.
835; 20 Beav. 355; Blaisdell v. Harris, 52 N. H. 191; 2 Daniell, Ch. Pr. (5th
Am. ed.) pp. 1017, 1018; Tidd's Pract. (4th ed. with American notes) 952;
1 Barb. Ch. Pr. (2d rev. ed.) 341; Freeman, Judgments, sect. 57, and other
quthorities cited by those authors.

STOUT v. LYE.
Pending proceedings in a State court by a national bank, to foreclose a mortgage executed to it by A. and duly recorded, B., his creditor, recovered
against him in the Circuit Court of the United States a judgment which, by
the lex lod, was a lien on the equity of redemption. B. then filed his bill in
the latter court against A. and the bank to set aside the mortgage as illegal,
or to have certain alleged payments of usurious interest applied to reduce the
debt. Shortly thereafter, the State court rendered a decree of foreclosure
and sale, which the bank set up in its answer to the bill. The Circuit Court
thereupon dismissed the bill. Held, 1. That the State court having first acquired jurisdiction of the subject-matter, its decree was a bar to the further
prosecution of the suit against A. and the bank. 2. That A. represented all
the parties who, pending the foreclosure proceedings, acquired through him
an interest in or a charge on the mortgaged land, and that B., although not a
party to them, is bound by the decree therein rendered.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John Hutchins for the appellants.
Mr. John E. Richie, contra.

Oct. 1880.]

STOUT v. LYE.

IR. CMHEV JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This record discloses the following facts: On the 10th of
November, 1873, Francis J. Lye executed to the First National
Bank of Delphos a mortgage on certain real estate situate in
the village of Delphos, Allen County, and within the northern
judicial district of the United States in the State of Ohio, to
secure his note to the bank for $6,000, dated Nov. 1, 1873,
ani payable Jan. 1, 1874, which was given to take up in part
his old note to the bank then past due. The mortgage was
duly recorded in the records of the county, November 10, at
which time, under the laws of the State, it took effect. Rev.
Stat. Ohio (1880), sect. 4133.
On the 29th of December, 1875, the present appellants,
John W. and Jacob 0. Stout, brought suit in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, against
Lye and Philip Walsh, who were partners, to recover a judgment for J5,106.36 and interest. The first day of the January Term, 1876, of that court was January 4, and process was
served on Lye & Walsh, in the suit of the Stouts, January 3.
On the 15th of January, 1876, the bank commenced suit
against Lye in the Court of Common Pleas of Allen County
to foreclose its mortgage. Process was served on Lye in that
action January 20. The Stouts were not made parties, the
bank having then no actual notice of the pendency of their
suit in the Circuit Court.
On the 31st of January the Stouts recovered judgment in
their action in the Circuit Court against Lye & Walsh for the
full amount of their claim and costs, and on the same day
caused an execution to be issued, which was, on the first day
of February, duly levied on the lands covered by the bank
mortgage. The effect of the judgment, without this levy, was
to bind the lands of the defendant for the satisfaction thereof
from the first day of the term of the court at which it was rendered, January 4. Id., sect. 5375. On the 23d of February
the Stouts commenced this suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio, making the
bank a defendant, in which they sought to set aside the mortgage as Ilegal for want of authority to take it, or if that could

STOUT v. LYE.

[Sup. Ct.

not be done, to have certain alleged payments of usurious interest applied to reduce the debt. The bank was served with
subpcena on the 25th of February, and required to appear on
the first Monday in April.
The February Term of the Court of Common Pleas of Allen
County began on the 7th of February, and on the 7th of
March, during that term, a judgment was rendered in the
suit of the bank against Lye for the full amount of his note
and interest, and for a foreclosure of the mortgage by a sale of
the mortgaged property. The bank answered the suit of the
Stouts, setting up the foregoing facts, which being proved by
the agreed statement of the parties, the bill was dismissed.
From that decree this appeal was taken.
The first question to be decided is whether the appellants
are concluded by the judgment of the State court finding the
amount due the bank and establishing the lien of its mortgage.
If they are, they concede that the decree below is right.
There cannot be a doubt that the State court had jurisdiction of the suit instituted by the bank, and, as was said by
Mr. Justice Grier, speaking for the court in Peek v. Jenness,
"It is a doctrine of law too long established to require a citation of authorities, that, where a court has jurisdiction, it has
a right to decide every question which occurs in the cause, and
whether its decision be correct or otherwise, its judgment, till
reversed, is regarded as binding in every other court; and that
where the jurisdiction of a court, and the right of a plaintiff
to prosecute his suit in it, have once attached, that right cannot be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another court."
7 How. 612, 624. The mere fact, therefore, that the Stouts
commenced this suit in the Circuit Court before judgment wa
rendered in the State court in favor of the bank is of no importance. The point to be decided is whether the judgment
in the State court binds the Stouts, they not having been par
ties to the suit in which it was rendered. The rule is, that
where suits betweeli the same parties in relation to the same
subject-matter are pending at the same time in different courts
of concurrent jurisdiction, a judgment on the merits in one
may be used as a bar to further proceedings in the others.
it is also an elementarv rule that "if, pending a suit by a

Oct. 1880.]

STOUT v. Lnt.

mortgagee to foreclose the equity of redemption, the mortgagor
makes a second mortgage, or assigns the equity of redemption,
an absolute decree of foreclosure against the mortgagor will
bind the second mortgagee or assignee of the equity of redemption." Mitf. p. 73; Story, Eq. Pl., sect. 851. Acting on this
rule in -E.,terv. Gaff (91 U. S. 521), we held that an assignee in bankruptcy, appointed pending a foreclosure suit,
was barred by a decree against the mortgagor. In this we
may have gone somewhat beyond the rulings of the English
courts, and of Chancellor Walworth in an anonymous case
(10 Paige (N. Y.), 20), but to our minds, under the late bankrupt law, an assignee stands as any other grantee of the mortgagor would stand who acquired title after the commencement
of the suit to foreclose the mortgage.
That the suit of the bank was one to foreclose a mortgage,
and that it was actually pending when the judgment lien of
the Stouts was acquired, are conceded facts. When the suit
was begun, Lye, the mortgagor, represented the entire equity
of redemption. He had parted with no portion of it voluntarily; and if the Stouts had failed to get their judgment during
the January Term, 1876, of the Circuit Court, no one would
claim they were not bound by the decree of foreclosure, although not parties to the suit. Neither could it with any propriety be claimed, we think, that they would not be bound if
their lien had only taken effect from the date of their judgment. It is true the lien followed by operation of law from a
judgment in an adversary proceeding against the mortgagor,
and was not created directly by his own voluntary act, but it
was the legitimate result of his failure to pay a debt he had
incurred, and reached only the equity of redemption that was
being foreclosed in the pending suit. It was in legal effect no
more md no less than an incumbrance of the equity of redemption by the mortgagor under the operation of the judicial proceedings which had been instituted against him to enforce the
payment of a debt he owed. As this incumbrance was created
pezdente lite, there can be no question that it comes within
the rule just stated as governing such transfers, unless the
righ's of the parties are changed because the lien, when created,
bound the property from January 4 as against other liens and

STOUT V.

[Sp.Ct
[Sup.
Ct.

conveyances made by the mortgagor. The inquiry is not an
to the extent or validity of the lien, but whether the holder is
any less an incumbrancer pendente lite, because, although his
incumbrance was actually created while the suit was pending,
it bound the land, for certain purposes, from an earlier date.
Confessedly the lien of the bank, if its mortgage was valid,
was in any event superior to that of the judgment. The only
point in controversy is as to the necessity of making such an
incumbrancer a party to a pending suit in order to cut off by a
foreclosure his interest thus acquired in an equity of redemption.
No doubt the Stouts, as soon as their judgment was rendered,
had a lien on the mortgaged property, which for some purposes
antedated the foreclosure suit; but until they had secured their
lien they would not have been heard to contest the validity of
the bank's mortgage, or the amount that was due on the mortgage debt. If they had been made parties when the suit was
begun, they could have done nothing by way of defence to the
action until they had acquired some specific interest in the
mortgaged property. As creditors at large they were powerless in respect to the foreclosure proceedings, but when they
obtained their judgment, not before, they were in a position to
contest in all legitimate ways the validity and extent of the superior lien which the bank asserted on the property, in which,
by the judgment, they had acquired a specific interest. They
might have appeared in the Common Pleas and asked to be admitted to defend the bank's suit, or for some other appropriate
relief, or they might do what they in fact did, - commence this
suit in the Circuit Court in aid of their execution. By this
suit, however, they could not deprive the Common Pleas of
the jurisdiction it had acquired in the bank's suit, nor take
away from the bank its right to prosecute that suit to the end.
The two suits related to the same subject-matter, and were
in fact pending at the same time in two courts of concurrent
jurisdiction. The parties also were in legal effect the same,
because in the State court the mortgagor represented all who,
pending the suit, acquired any interest through him in the property about which the controversy arose. By electing to bring
a separate suit the Stouts voluntarily took the rish of getting
* decision in the Circuit Court before the State court settled

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. HOUGH.

the rights of the parties by a judgment in the suit which was
pending there. Failing in this, they must submit to the same
judgment that has already been rendered against their representative in the State court. That was a judgment on the
merits of the identical matter now in question, and it concluded
the "parties and those in privity with them, not only as to
every matter which was offered and received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other admissible matter
which might have been offered for that purpose." Cromwell
v. County of Sao, 94 U. S. 351, 352. It is true the mortgagor
did not set up as a defence that the bank had no right to take
the mortgage, or that he was entitled to certain credits because
of payments of usurious interest, but he was at liberty to do
so. Not having done so, he is now concluded as to all such
Decre affirmed.
defences, and so are his privies.

UNITED STATES v. HOUGH.
1. A prayer for instructions which are presented as a whole, is properly refused
if any of them is erroneous.
2. A collector of internal revenue gave bond, Sept 16, 1864, with sureties to the
United States, conditioned for the payment of the money received by him
for stamps sold, and the return of those not sold, which had been or might
be delivered to him under the act of March 3, 1863, c. 74. That act was
repealed June 30, 1864. Held, that the liability of the sureties was limited
to the stamps delivered to him before the last-mentioned date.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3 r. Assistaot Attorney- General Smith for the appellant.
Mr. Philip Phillip. and 31r. W. Hallett Phillips, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEn delivered the opinion of the court.

Ruel Hough, collector of internal revenue for the first district of Tennessee, was furnished by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with a large amount of revenue stamps, and on

