THE "ILLINOIS."

[Sup. ot.

THE 11 ILLiNOIS."

The rule requiring a steamer to keep out of the way of a sailing-vessel U
equally imperative upon the latter to keep her course; and where, by her
unnecessary deviation therefrom, a collision is rendered unavoidable, the
steamer is not liable therefor.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. . Warren Coulston for the appellant.
Mr. Morton P. Henry, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a case of collision in the Delaware Bay, and the facts
found are substantially as follows: The "Illinois" was a large
steamship, three hundred and sixty feet in length, and of three
thousand tons register. She was going up the bay at a speed
of ten knots an hour. She had just rounded Dan Baker's shoal
on a port wheel, and had got straightened on her course in
about mid-channel. The schooner" Ellen Baker" was ahead of
her, a little on the port bow, and bound for New Castle, Del.
The wind was from the northeastward, and the schooner was by
the wind, heading about north-by-west, or north-northwest, and
pointing for Reedy Island piers. The vessels were on slightly
diverging lines which were about one hundred yards apart.
The western or Reedy Island side of the bay was obstructed
by ice, while the eastern side was open. When the vessels
were probably three or four hundred yards apart, the schooner
went in stays and then tacked to the eastward to avoid the ice,
which was'ahead of and close under her port bow. There was
n: lookout astern on the schooner, and, until she had changed
her course, no one on board had observed the steamer. The
steamer had a sufficient lookout. Her master and pilot were
on the bridge looking ahead, and they saw the schooner before
she tacked. They so directed the steamer's course as to pass
the schooner in safety on her starboard side, three hundred feet
or thereabouts away, if she kept the course she was on. As

Oct. 1880.]

THE "ILLINOIS."

soon as the manoeuvre of the schooner was seen on the steamer,
orders were given to put the heln hard-a-starboard, to stop the
engine, then to back at full speed, and to let go the anchor, with
a view to passing under the schooner's stern. These orders
were ineffectual to prevent a collision, and the steamer struck
the schooner just abaft the main rigging, causing her to capsize and sink.
It seems to us the court below was right, on these facts, in
holding the steamer free from blame. The responsibility of
avoiding a collision with a sailing-vessel is put by the act of
Cougress and the sailing rules primarily on a steamer. But
the sailing-vessel is under just the same responsibility to keep
her course, if she can, and not embarrass the steamer, while
passing, by any new movement.

A steamer has the right to

rely on this as an imperative rule for a sailing-vessel, and govern
herself accordingly. Otherwise it would at times be impossible for a steamer to get ahead at all in the thoroughfares of
navigation.
In the present case the steamer was in mid-channel. That
was the proper place for a vessel of her size, and, under the
circumstances, we cannot say her speed was unusual, since, so
far as appears, there were no other vessels in the way. Had
the schooner kept her course for a minute or two longer, there
is scarcely a doubt that the steamer would have got by in safety.
It was clearly a fault, therefore, for her to change her course,
unless there was a necessity for it. Mere convenience was not
enough. The schooner in this court has the affirmative. It
rests on her to show error in the decree of the court below,
or we must affirm.
It is an important fact that the steamer was not observed
from the schooner before the course was changed. While a
man stationed at the stern as a lookout is not at all times necessary, no vessel should change her course materially without
having first made such an observation in all directions as will
enable her to know how what she is about to do will affect
others in her immediate vicinity. In the present case, it is not
found expressly that the ice was so close under the port bow of
the schooner as to make it dangerous for her to keep on as she
was going until the steamer got by. She ought to have known

THE " ILLINOIS."

[Sup. Ct.

that although the ice was an obstruction on the west side of the
bay, she was not far from the place in the channel througbi
which the large steamers which navigated there would be likely
to pass if following her. It is not found that there was anything in view from the steamer to indicate to her the necessity
for any early change of the course of the schooner. So far as
the findings show, the way was open for some distance ahead,
and the steamer had the right to assume she might keep her
place in mid-channel and go on with safety. We must also
infer from what is actually found, as well as from what is not
found, that if the schooner had known the circumstances in
which she was placed, her change of course would have been
delayed until it might be made without danger. Because a
steamer must keep out of the way of a sailing-vessel, it by no
means follows that a sailing-vessel may unnecessarily throw
herself across the bow of an approaching steamer. It is as
much the duty of a sailing-vessel to be diligent in the performance of her duty as it is that of a steamer to be mindful of hers.
In the case of The Abbotford (98 U. S. 440), it was distinctly
found that the tack of the schooner was entirely proper, both
for her own safety and in regard to the steamer. She had run
out her course, and the steamer, which was yet a considerable
distance away, ought to have known it. Consequently the
steamer was in fault for getting so close as to put herself in the
way of the schooner while doing what the necessities of the
navigation actually required, and which a prudent and skilful
navigator on the steamer ought to have known she must do at
the time it was done. Such is not shown to have been the case
here.

Decree afflrme&

