COOK v. LILLo.

[Sup. Ct.

Ball v. Langles, 102 id. 128; Manufacturing Conipany v. Ladd,
id. 408; Wicks v. Stevens, 2 Woods, 312.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the appellants' bill was right. It is, therefore,

Affirmed.

Coox v. LiLLo.
1. l7orington v. Smith (8 Wall. 1) cited and approved.
2. Payment of a promissory note, executed at New Orleans MAarch 26, 1862, will
be enforced in lawful money where payments on account of the principal
and interest were in that medium, and where, before the commencement of
the suit, no claim was made that, by the agreement or understanding of the
parties, the term "dollars" was to be construed as meaning "Confederate
dollars."
In Louisiana, usurious interest cannot be reclaimed, nor imputed to the principal, unless a suit for its recovery be commenced or a plea of usury be cet
up within twelve months after the payment thereof.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles B. Singleton, . Ricihan'd H. Browne, and Ho
John A. Campbell for the appellant.
Mr. C. -. Schmidt and fr. Thomas S.
Semmes, contra.
Mn. CHmEF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It has long been settled in this court that transactions in
Confederate money during the late civil war between the inhabitants of the Confederate States within the Confederate lines,
not intended to promote the ends of the Confederate government, could be enforced in the courts of the United States,
after the restoration of peace, to the extent of their just obligation. It is equally well settled that if a contract entered into
under such circumstances, payable in dollars, was, according to
the understanding of the parties, to be paid in Confederate dollars, upon proof of that fact the party entitled to the payment

Oct. 1880.]

CooK v. LILLO.

can only recover the value of Confederate dollars in the lawful
money of the United States. Tkoringtont v. Smith, 8 Wall. 1.
The loan for which the notes sued on in this case were given
was made by a check on one of the New Orleans banks. The
business of the banks was at that time done in Confederate
currency. That kind of money was received and paid out in
ordinary transactions, but the evidence fails entirely to satisfy
us that the dollars called for in the notes were, by the agreement or understanding of the parties, Confederate dollars.
Cook owed a debt of $10,000, payable in lawful money of the
United States, and bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent
per annum. He borrowed of the Sonlies $10,000 at a reduced
rate of interest to pay that debt. It is fair to presume from
the evidence that the dollars he borrowed paid the dollars he
owed. He says himself his only object in the transaction was
to carry his debt at less interest. It is nowhere intimated that
the dollars he expected to pay on his loan were other or different from those he owed on his old debt. Not long after the
notes were given, New Orleans was taken possession of by the
military forces of the United States, and was never afterwards
within the Confederate lines. Payments to a large amount
both of principal and interest have been made, and always in
lawful money or its equivalent. So far as we can discover from
the evidence, no claim was ever made that the notes called for
Confederate dollars until about the time of the commencement
of this suit, which was fifteen years after the notes were given,
and after thousands of dollars had been paid and many extensions of time secured. The court below was clearly right,
therefore, in rendering a decree without any deduction for the
depreciated value of Confederate dollars.
It is not denied that Lillo, the complainant below, was an
alien when the suit was begun. He could, therefore, sue in the
courts of the United States. He is the holder of the notes sued
on, and there is nothing in the evidence to show that he has
not the right to maintain this action. The notes in his bands
are subject to the same defences they would be in the hands of
the Sonlies, because, confessedly, they were transferred to him
long after they had become due.
By a statute of Louisiana. if a person Days on a contrant a

EX

PARTE RAILWAY

CO.

[Sup. OL

higher rate of interest than eight per cent, it may be sued for
and recovered back within twelve months from the time of the
payment. Rev. Stat. 1870, sect. 1855. Before this statute,
which was first enacted in 1844, it had been decided by the highest court of the State in several cases that money paid for usurious interest could not be reclaimed or imputed to the capital.
Perillatv. Pueh,2 Mart. (La.) N. s. 672; Millaudon v. Arnous,
3 id. 596; Poydras v. Turgeau, 14 id. 87; Hlerehants' Bank v.
Gove, 15 id. 378; Cox v. Bowley, 12 Rob. (La.) 273. Since
the statute it has been held that a reclamation cannot be made,
or the usurious interest imputed to the principal, unless the suit
for the recovery is begun, or plea of usury set up to the claim
within twelve months after the payment is made. Cox v. JIcIntyre, 6 La. Ann. 470; Weaver v. faillot, 15 id. 395. In
view of these decisions the appellant was not entitled to any
credit on the principal of his debt by reason of usurious interest
paid, because his last payment of interest was made in March,
1875, and this suit was not begun until Jan. 11, 1877, more
than twelve months afterwards.
This disposes of all the errors assigned.
Decree affrmed.

Ex PARTE RAILWAY CoMPANY.
1. The judgment of the Circuit Court, on a plea to the jurisdiction, will not ha
reviewed here upon a petition for a mandamus.
2. An attachment cannot be sued out of that court against the property of the
defendant in an action where the court has not acquired jurisdiction of
the person.
3. This ruling is applicable to the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in
Iowa, notwithstanding the act of June 4, 1880, c. 120. 21 Stat. 155.
ORIGINAL.

Mr. Fillmore Beall presented the petition of the Des Moines
and Minneapolis Railroad Company, duly verified by affidavit,
and moved for a rule on the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Iowa, Northern Division, to show cause why
a writ of mandamus should not issue. rhe petition sets forth

