SHARP V. STAMIPING

CO.

[Sup. Ct

submitted will be, that the former judgment and mandate of
this court in the case arising upon the petition of the appellants, the New York and Wilmington Steamship Company,
for the benefit of a limited liability, be, and they are hereby,
modified so far as they contain directions to the Circuit Court
to enter a decree reversing the decree of the District Court
and giving directions for further proceedings; and that instead
of said portion of the said judgment and mandate, directions
be, and they are hereby, given to the Circuit Court to proceed
upon the petition of the said New York and Wilmington
Steamship Company for such limited liability, and hear and determine the same, in conformity with law and the opinion of
this court, in the mean time staying proceedings upon any and
all decrees or judgments against the steamship "Benefactor" by
reason of the collision referred to in said petition until the proceedings for limited liability be determined, and to answer the
determination of the same. It is further ordered that each
party pay their own costs on these motions.

SHARP V. STAMPING COMIPArY.
Letters-patent No. 79,989, granted July 14, 1868, to Hiram Y. Lazear, tor an
improvement in gas-heaters, are valid.

APPAT from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for the appellant.
Mr. J. L. S. Roberts, contra.
the opinion of the court.
On July 14, 1868, letters-patent No. 79,989 were granted to
one H. Y. Lazear for an improved apparatus for broiling steak
by gas. This patent was transferred by the assignment of the
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered

Oct. 1880.]

SHARP V. STAMPING CO.

patentee to one W. Phillips, who, by another assignment,
transferred it to James L. Sharp. The invention was represented and described as an upright cylinder or closed casing of
sheet-metal, with a lid for closing the top, and with an open
bottom. The diameter of the open bottom was traversed by a
V-shaped horizontal trough, dividing it into two equal openings, through which the flame of a gas-stove, over which the
apparatus was placed, might enter in two equal sheets. The
trough was filled with plaster of Paris or other good non-conductor of heat, and upon this non-conductor the dripping-pan
was placed for receiving the juices of the meat. The steak
was clasped in a wire broiler, which was placed in the cylinder
or closed casing in a vertical position, with its lower end resting in the dripping-pan, the two flat sides of the meat being
equally exposed to the two sheets of flame which entered the
lower end of the cylinder in the manner stated. The object
was to produce an apparatus in which both sides of the meat
might be cooked equally and at the same time, and in which
the drippings from the meat might be caught in a pan, where
it would be protected from the injurious effects of the heat.
The latter object was obtained by the non-conductor filling
upon which the drip-pan rested, and which filled the V-shaped
trough. The trough served to contain the filling and support
the pan, and to divide the flame into two equal sheets, which
ascended along the sides of the steak.
The first and third claims of the patent were thus stated: "1. The V-shaped trough E and the filling E', by which the
flame is divided, and the grease protected from burning, and smoke
thereby prevented, substantially as described, in combination with
a gas steak-broiler."
"3. An apparatus for broiling steak by gas, whereby the steak
is broiled or cooked simultaneously on both sides, or where the
sides are equally exposed to the flame and heat, substantially as
shown and described."
On May 3, 1876, Sharp filed the bill in this case. He
claimed to be the sole owner of the letters-patent issued to
Lazear, and charged that the defendant, the Dover Stamping
Company, had unlawfully and wrongfully made, used, and
sold, and was making, using, and selling, large quantities of

SHARP V. STAMPING CO.

[Sup. Ct.

gas-heaters, such as were described and claimed in the letterspatent, in infringement of them and in violation of his exclusive privilege.
The bill prayed that the defendant might be compelled to
account for and pay over all gains and profits derived from the
infringement of the patent, and for a perpetual injunction restraining it from making, using, or vending gas-heaters embodying the invention described in the letters-patent claimed
by complainant.
Upon final hearing in the Circuit Court the bill was dismissed. Sharp thereupon brought the case here by appeal.
It is conceded by the defendant that the gas-heaters manufactured by it embody the invention claimed in letters-patent
issued to Lazear. The defence relied on is that Lazear "was
not the original and first inventor of the whole or any substantial or material part of the things set forth and claimed as new
in said letters-patent, but that prior to said alleged invention
thereof the same had been described and set forth in the following specified letters-patent of the United States, and known
to and used by the several patentees therein named, at the
places of their respective residences, that is to say: No. 28,781,
dated June 19, 1860, and granted to William F. Shaw, of Boston, Massachusetts; No. 38,018, dated March 24, 1863, and
granted to James M. Dick, of Buffalo, New York; and No.
66,911, dated July 16, 1867, and granted to D. C. Teller, of
Terre Haute, Indiana."
Dick's patent was not introduced in evidence, but Shaw's
and Teller's were.
The apparatus described in the Teller patent was a cylindrical vessel, having a central opening in the bottom, and an
annular opening around the central opening, and a series of
vertical wires or rods inserted in the annular bottom that intervened between the two openings. An inverted conical deflector was suspended in the central space from above.
The claim of Teller's patent was thus stated : "The vertical position in which the steaks are placed over the
fire, and the arrangement of the vertical rods EE, all substantially
enclosed with the cap C, as specified for the purposes in the speci.
cations"

Oct. 1880.]

SHARP V. STAMPING CO.

It is clear that this contrivance did not anticipate the invention of Lazear. It had no V-shaped trough, filled with a nonconducting substance, nor the dripping-pan referred to and
claimed in his letters-patent, nor anything resembling it. It
was not adapted to be used with a removable wire broiler, and
did not evenly distribute the flame along two sides of the
steak. In short, it did not in any manner embody or anticipate the first and third claims of those letters.
The Shaw patent shows an apparatus for broiling or roasting
by gas. Its character is thus generally described by the inventor in his specification: "The nature of my invention consists in the arrangement of th4
steak-holder, the heating-chambers, and the burner or burners. Also
in the arrangement of two deflectors in the heating-chamber, and
with respect to the burner or burners and the steak-holder, when
arranged as specified.'
It consisted of a heating or broiling chamber, whose front
vertical side could be removed, and was constructed as a thin,
hollow box attached to a drip-pan or gravy-receiver. Against
and alongside the inner face of the said cover, and within the
heating-chamber, a steak-holder was placed, composed of two
wire frames, hinged or connected together at or near one edge
of each and furnished with handles. When a steak or other
food was to be cooked in the apparatus, it was placed in the
steak-holder. In the bottom of the cooking-chamber there was
a long opening under which the gas-burners were placed. Over
this opening was arranged an inclined deflecting-plate, which
extended across the heating-chamber from end to end.
In the upper part of the heating-chamber, and over the
deflecting-plate above mentioned, was arranged another deflecting-plate. By means of thin deflectors and the arrangement of
the steak-holder, the broiler-chamber and the burners, the inventor claimed to be able to obtain a more equal distribution of
the heat within the heating-chamber, with less liability of
burning the steak and a better chance of collecting the gravy,
than whln the steak-holder was placed horizontally over the
burners.
The claims of the inventor were thus stated: -

SHARP V. STAMPING

CO.

[Sup. Ct

"I claim the arrangement of the steak-holder, the broiling-chamber, and the burner or burners.
"Also the arrangement of the two deflectors within the heatingchamber, and with respect to the burner or burners and the steakIolder when arranged as specified.
-Also the combination of the closed air-chamber or space in the
eo%'er with the steak-holder and heating-chamber arranged as
sp'ecified.
"Also the combination of the vertical side or cover with the
steak-holder and drip-pan, said side or cover having a closed airchamber or space, as specified and shown in drawings."
It requires no discussion to show that this is not an anticipation of the Lazear patent. The Shaw patent does not describe
or claim what is shown and claimed in the first and third
claims of the Lazear patent.
It has no V-shaped trough, filled with plaster of Paris or
ther non-conductor of heat, by which the flame is divided and
the grease protected from burning.
It is not an apparatus for dividing the flame so that the
sides of the steak may be equally exposed thereto, and the
steak thus broiled simultaneously and equally on both sides.
On the contrary, the flame is not divided at all, and whatever flame reaches the side of the steak next to the removable vertical cover, does so by impinging against the upper
deflector, and then passing over the top of the steak-holder
and descending between the steak and the removable vertical
cover.
The evidence makes it clear that this contrivance is not capable of broiling a steak equally and simultaneously on both
sides, the lower deflector causing the lower part of the steak
to remain raw while the upper part is burned, and the side
next the removable vertical cover is left raw.
We can find nothing in this invention which anticipates the
.Iaims of the Lazear patent.
To sustain the averment in the answer, of want of novelty
ii the apparatus described in the Lazear patent, the defendant
has introduced an apparatus called Shaw's Cooker, which he
ailleges was designed and manufactured and sold by Shaw as
,rlv as 1856.

Oct. 1880.]

SHARP V. STAMPING Co.

This consisted of an upright cylindrical heating-chamber
with a round hole in the bottom. Under this hole the gasburners were placed. To direct the flames the hole was partially filled by a cone-shaped disc, which filling the central
portions of the hole left an annular open space next its outer
edge through which the flames could enter the heating-chamber. The flames, therefore, entered the heating-chamber in
the form of a cylinder. The steak or other meat to be cooked
was suspended from hooks fastened to the cover of the cookingchamber.
The cone-shaped disc which partially occupied the opening
in the bottom of the cooking-chamber was filled with plaster
of Paris and hard-coal ashes. The drip-pan was placed over
the disc on legs or supports which allowed a passage of air
under the drip-pan. The meats were suspended over the
pan.
This apparatus was not contrived to accomplish the ends
which Lazear's letters-patent had in -view, nor was it an equivalent of his apparatus. Instead of dividing the volume of flame
into two sheets, by which a steak could be broiled simultaneously on both sides, both sides being equally exposed to
the flame and heat, it admitted the flames to the cooking
chamber in the form of a hollow cylinder. The steak, therefore, suspended from the top of the cooking-chamber would
not be equally exposed to the flame and heat. The edge of
the steak would be cooked more rapidly than the other portions.
It is evident, and the testimony sustains this view, that
Shaw's contrivance was a gas cooking-stove for cooking food of
various kinds, - particularly joints of meat and fowls. It was
not specially intended or adapted for cooking steaks in the
way in which that process was accomplished by Lazear's apparatus.
Nor was the dripping-pan contrived to secure the ends for
which the Lazear patent was designed. The dripping-pan
being elevated on legs or supports above the disc, left a space
underneath, which the flames would fill, and thus allow the
juices of the meats to be burned, a result which was averted
by the Lazear patent. That left no space between the drip

WEIGHTMAN V. CLARIL

[Sup. t

pan and the V-shaped trough filled with plaster of Paris or
other non-conductor of heat. The fact that its bottom rested
upon the plaster of Paris protected the juices of the meat from
the action of the flames.
Upon a consideration of all the evidence we are satisfied
that the invention of Lazear was new and original, and had
not been anticipated by the patents of Teller or Shaw, or the
gas-stove made by Shaw in 1856.
The invention, it is admitted, has been infringed by the
defendant. The evidence places its utility beyond question.
Being novel and useful, and protected by the letters-patent
issued to Lazear, the defendant should account to the complainant for the gains and profits derived by it from the infringement of the Lazear patent.
As the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, the decree must be
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.

WFGHTXAX v. CLARK.
1. This court concurs in opinion with the Supreme Court of Illinois that cect. E
of art. 9 of the Constitution of that State of 1848 (infra, p. 257) impozea a
limitation on the power of the legislature to authorize taxation by the
municipal corporations or the political subdivisions of the State.
2. A congressional township is by the laws of Illinois merely a corporation for
school purposes. It cannot, therefore, subscribe for stock in a railroad
company, and issue its bonds in payment, nor levy a tax upon persons and
property within its jurisdiction, to aid in building railroads.
APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.ir. Henry landers and Mr. 1B. J. C. Walker for the appellants.

111r. John I

Rinacer, Contra.

