Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK v. WHITNEY.

NATIONAL BANK v. WHITNEY.
1. A national bank may enforce against the mortgagor and parties claiming
under him with notice a mortgage of lands executed to it as collateral
security for his then existing indebtedness to it, and such as he might thereafter incur.
2. An objection to the taking of such a mortgage as security for future advances can only be urged by the United States.
3. In New York, a mortgage for a past indebtedness, if taken without notice of
one for an indebtvdness to be subsequently incurred, has precedence, if it
be first recorded.
4. Cobts are not payable out of the fund in controversy.

ERroR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
TMeodore Eacon for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. Harris Daj, contra.
31r.

MR JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the record that the defendant Whitney,
snie time previously to 1871, executed to Maria Crocker a
mortgage upon certain real property situated in the county
(if Genesee, in the State of New York, to secure an indebtedne.3s to her; that in a suit brought for that purpose the
mortgAge was foreclosed and a decree entered for the sale
of the premises; that such sale was had, and the amount
received satisfied the debt and left a surplus of over $3,800,
which was paid into court. The present controversy is be
tween subsequent mortgagees and judgment creditors for this
surplus.
On the 12th*of January, 1871, Whitney executed a mortgage upon the same premises to the National Bank of Genesee,
providing in terms for the payment of $5,000, one year from its
date, with interest, but declaring that it was made as collateral
security for the payment of all notes which the bank held at
the time against him, and for his other indebtedness then due
or thereafter to become due. This mortgage was recorded on
the 19th of September, 1872. It subsequently appeared from
an examination of the accounts between the parties that his

NATIONAL BANK V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct

indebtedness at the date of the mortgage was $3,200, and that
this was paid before Sept. 16, 1872.
On this last day Whitney executed two other mortgages
upon the same property, one to Homer Bostwick and the other
to Edward McCormick. The one to Bostwick was executed as
security for the payment of liabilities and indebtedness which
already had been or might thereafter be incurred by him on
account of Whitney, either by indorsement or otherwise, to an
amount not exceeding $2,500. This mortgage was recorded at
noon on the day of its execution. The amount of the liability
subsequently incurred by Whitney to Bostwick exceeded the
sum named. The mortgage to McCormick was executed as
security for similar liabilities and indebtedness which might be
incurred by him for Whitney, to an amount not exceeding
$1,500, and was recorded at forty-five minutes past one of the
day of its execution. The amount of liabilities incurred by
McCormick for Whitney exceeded the sum named.
It is unnecessary to give the particulars of other subsequent
incumbrances, as under no circumstances could any of the surplus be applied to their discharge. In any view that can be
taken of the mortgages mentioned, the surplus in controversy
will be exhausted by them.
The principal question for our determination relates to the
validity of the mortgage of Whitney to the national bank, so
far as it applies to future advances to him. His indebtedness
existing at the execution of the mortgage has been satisfied.
His indebtedness subsequently incurred amounted at the sale
of the premises to $5,160. If the mortgage for the future
indebtedness can be sustained as a valid instrument for that
purpose, the entire surplus will be absorbed for its payment,
excepting such portion as may be first payable- to McCormick,
by reason of the fact that he took his mortgage without notice
of the one to the bank. It is contended that the mortgage to
the bank, so far as it applies to future advances, is invalid, be.
cause a mortgage of that character is prohibited by the national
banking law. That law, after in terms authorizing every national banking association to loan money on personal security,
declares that it "may purchase, hold, and convey real estate for
the following purposes, and for no others: Fird,such as may be

(jet. 1880.]

NATIONAL RANK V. WVHITNEY.

necessary for its immediate accommodation in the transaction
of its business; second, such as shall be mortgaged to it in good
faith by way of security for debts previously contracted; third,
such as shall be conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts previously contracted in the oiurse of its dealings; fourth, such as
it shall purchase at sales under judgments, decrees, or mortgages held by the association, or shall purchase to secure debts
to it."
The question presented is not an open one in this court. It
was determined in the case of l.National Ban/k v. iatthews, at
the October Term of 1878. It there appeared that Matthews
and another person had given their joint note to a mercantile company for $15,000, secured by a deed of trust
on certain real property in Missouri, executed by Matthews
alone. Soon afterwards the company assigned the note and
deed of trust to the Union National Bank of St. Louis, to secure a loan made to it at the time. The loan was not paid at
its maturity, and the bank directed the trustee to sell the
premises. Matthews thereupon filed a bill to enjoin the sale,
and obtained a decree for a perpetual injunction, upon the
ground that the loan was made upon real security, which was
forbidden by the statute. The Supreme Court of the State
affirmed the decree, and the case was brought here, where the
decree was reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to
the court below to dismiss the bill.
In coming to this conclusion this court considered the transaction in two aspects: first, as not being within the letter of
the statute, because the deed of trust was not executed to the
bank ; and, second, as a loan upon real-estate security.
Viewed in the first aspect, the court held that as a mortgage
the deed of trust was merely an incident to the note, and a
right to its benefit, whether it was delivered or not with the
note, passed with the transfer of the latter. If the loan had
been made upon the note alone, the benefit of the deed as a
mortgage would have inured to the bank by operation of law.
Of course that which the law would give independently of a
direct transfer by the mortgagee, the statute did not intend to
defeat because such transfer was made.
Viewed in the second asnect, as a loan upon real-estate

102

NATIONAL BANK V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

security, the court observed that, so treating it, the consequence insisted upon did not follow; that the statute did not
declare such security void, but was silent on the subject; that
had Congress so intended it would have been easy to say so,
and it can hardly be presumed that this would not have been
done, instead of leaving the question to be settled by the uncertain result of litigation and judicial decision. And after
citing numerous cases where a disregard of statutory prohibitions has not been held to vitiate the contracts of parties, but
only to authorize actions by the government against them, the
court held that the prohibitory clause of the banking law did
not vitiate real-estate securities taken for loans, and that a disregard of them only laid the association open to proceedings by
the government. "The impending danger," said the court,
"of a judgment of ouster and dissolution was, we think, the'
check, and none other, contemplated by Congress. That has
been always the punishment prescribed for the wanton violation of a charter, and it may be made to follow whenever the
proper public authority shalh gee fit to enforce its application."
The construction of the act of Congress thus given has been
acted upon by the national banks throughout the country ever
since it was published. It is not unreasonable to suppose that
they have conducted their business and made loans to a large
amount in reliance upon it, and that in many eases great injury would follow a departure from it. Judicial decisions
affecting the business interests of the country should not be
disturbed except for the most cogent reasons, certainly not
because of subsequent doubts as to their soundness. The prosperity of a commercial community depends, in a great degree,
upon the stability of the rules by which its transactions are
governed. If there should be a change, the legislature can
make it with infinitely less derangement of those interests
than would follow a new ruling of the court, for statutory regulations would operate only in the future.
The decision in the case cited controls the present case, and
;n conformity with it we must hold that the mortgage to the
bank, so far as the subsequent incumbrances are concerned, is
to be regarded as a valid security for the future advances to

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK

V. WHITNEY.

the mortgagor. Whatever objection there may be to it as
security for such advances from the prohibitory provisions of
statute, the objection can only be urged by the government.
Flepelner v. United States Bank, 8 Wheat. 338-355.
But it appears from the record that the mortgage to McCormick was taken by him without notice of the prior mortgage
to the bank, which had not then been registered. He has,
therefore, a right as against the bank to prior payment of the
1,500 and interest, for which amount his mortgage was a lien
upon the premises.
Bostwick took his mortgage with notice of the one to the
bauk. He cannot, therefore, claim any of the surplus until the
debt of the bank is paid. The surplus should, therefore, be
fiist applied to McCormick's claim, and the balance to the
claim of the bank.
It follows that the decree of the Supreme Court of New
York must be reversed, and the case remanded with directions
to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.
A petition for a rehearing having been filed, MR. JUsTIcE
FIELD, at a subsequent day of the term, delivered the opinion
of the court.
By the decision in this case we held that, in the distribution
of the surplus moneys in court, the claim of McCormick should
lie paid before that of the bank. He took his mortgage without notice of the one to the bank, which had not been registered. The bank now asks a rehearing of the case on this
point, contending that, under the decisions of the New York
courts, the priority of its mortgage cannot be displaced. It
cites the statute of the State to show that the recording act
gives priority only to the mortgage first recorded, when that is
executed for a valuable consideration, which, according to those
decisions, means some new consideration advanced at the time;
and that a mortgage for a pre-existing indebtedness is not protected by a prior record, against a non-recorded mortgage for
value. Here the mortgage to McCormick was given to secure

NATIONAL BANK V. WHITNEY.

[Sup. Ut.

the extent of $1,500- a previous liability and indebtedness, and such as might be subsequently incurred. The previous indebtedness at the time equalled the whole amount of
the intended security.
There would be force in the position of the bank if its own
mortgage stood in any better condition. When the McCormick
mortgage was executed - Sept. 16, 1872- the indebtedness of
Whitney to the bank was paid, and his mortgage remained in
force only for any future indebtedness which he might incur.
For sach future indebtedness it could not cut out the mortgage
to McCormick, executed for an existing indebtedness, and of
which mortgage the bank had notice. For advances afterwards made, the mortgage to the bank was a subsequent incumbrance.
As between two mortgages, - one for a past indebtedness,
and one for an indebtedness to be subsequently incurred, - the
one for the past indebtedness must have precedence, if first
recorded.
The petition for a rehearing by the bank must, therefore,
be denied.
The petition of McCormick to be allowed costs out of the
fund in court must, according to the usual practice of the court
in such cases, be also denied. His costs are chargeable against
the bank which contested his right to be paid out of the proceeds in court. If paid out of the fund, they would reduce by
their amount the moneys properly applicable to the indebtedness of Whitney.
Petition denied.
-to

