Oct. 1880.]

DISTRICT OF COLUIMBIA V. CLUSS.

mails were carried after this notice or assertion of the present
claim it has recovered judgment, and the government has not
appealed. For what it lost by its neglect in making claim on
these settlements when receiving payment, it must submit to
loss.
Judgment affirmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA V. CLUSS.
1. In 1870, the Board of Trustees of Colored Schools for the District of Columbia had authority to employ an architect to prepare the plans and specifications for a school-house in Washington, and superintend its construction,
and could, as the agent of the District, bind it to pay him for his services.
S. The disallowance of his claim by the board of audit constituted by the act
of June 20, 1874, c. 337 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 116), does not bar his right of
recovery.
3 The corporation which the act of Feb. 21, 1871, c. 62 (16 Stat. 419), created
by the name of the District of Columbia succeeded to the property and
liabilities of the corporations which were thereby abolished.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Albert G. Riddle for the plaintiff in error.
Mir. Enoch Totten, cont,a.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1870, the Board of Trustees of Colored Schools for the
District of Columbia employed the plaintiff, who is an architect by profession, to prepare the plans and specifications for a
school-house in Washington, and to superintend its construction, agreeing to give him for his services five per cent on the
cost of the building. This was the ordinary rate of charge as
compensation for similar services in the District. In 1872, the
building was constructed, and cost about $66,000. The board
of trustees approved of the work, and paid the plaintiff $1,100
in cash, and gave him a voucher for $2,155 more, being for the
balance due, and also the sum of $255 for services in superintending repairs upon other buildings. This voucher the plainvOL. xMI.

45

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA V. CLUSS.

[Sup. ot.

tiff sold and delivered to the Freedman's Savings and Trust
Company, for whose benefit this action is brought.
The Board of Trustees of Colored Schools has since been abolished, and a new board organized to take charge of all the public schools, whether of white or colored children. But when
the original board existed it was the agent of the District for
the purposes intrusted to it, and could bind the District for the
services rendered by the plaintiff. The building constructed,
and the other buildings upon which the repairs were made
under his superintendence, belong to the District and are used
by it for colored schools, yet the amount due him for which
the voucher was given has never been paid. The jury were of
opinion that the District should pay it, and we agree with
them.
The disallowance of the claim by the board of audit, if such
had been allowed to be proved, would not have concluded the
plaintiff. That board was not a judicial body, whose action
was final; it exercised little more than the functions of an
accountant. A claim allowed by it was not necessarily a valid
one; a claim disallowed was not, therefore, illegal. Its action
either way left the matter open to contestation in the courts.
Though the contract of the plaintiff with the board of trustees was made before the act creating the District into one
municipal corporation, the work was not completed until afterwards, when it was accepted and approved. The new corporation succeeded to the property of the two former ones, and also
to their liabilities.
Judgment eaffrmecl.

