Oct. 1880.]

KERN v. HUIDEKOPER.

against the government whose officers they were. A proceeding
against the government would not lie. The Secretary v. Mefiarrahan, 9 Wall. 298; United States v. Boutwell, 17 id. 604.
We think that the proceedings have not abated either by the
resignation of the clerk and the appoA-'tment of a successor, or
by the expiration of his term of office, even if it sufficiently
appeared that either of these contingencies had occurred.
Judgment affirmed.

KERx v. HUIDEKOPEB.
1. A party to a suit, who, under the act of March 3, 1876, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3,
p. 470), was entitled to its removal from the State court wherein it was
brought, filed in due time his petition and the requisite bond, and prayed
for such removal to the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper
di.trict. His petition was denied. Held, that, on his entering in the Cir
cuit Court, within the period prescribed by that act, the transcript of the
record, that court acquired jurisdiction of the suit, and that all subsequent
proceedings of the State court therein are absolutely void.
2 A sheriff, to whom was directed a fierl.facias sued upon a judgment against
A., levied the writ upon certain goods and chattels, for which replevin was
brought in a State court against him by B., a non-resident of the State,
claiming to be the owner of them. Held, that there is nothing in the character of the suit which precludes its removal by B. to the Circuit Court.
3 Where a State court, proceeding to the trial of a suit which had been removed therefrom, renders judgment against the party, whose petition for
a removal it erred in refusing to grant, he may raise here the question as
to the jurisdiction of that court, notwithstanding the fact that he appeared
at the trial and insisted upon the merits of his cause of action or defence.
4 WhEre a party, pursuant to leave, files a plea to the jurisdiction of the court,
his former plea to the merits is thereby withdrawn.

EReoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Edwin WYalker for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry Crawford, contra.
MRi. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of replevin brought by Frederick W.
Ituidekoper, John N. Dennison, and Thomas W. Shannon, in

KERN v.

UIDEKOPER.

[Sup. ot

the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, at its May Term.
1877, to wit, on May 22, 1877, against Charles Kern, to recover
the possession of one thousand tons of old railroad iron, which
as they claimed he wrongfully detained from them.
The writ of replevin, issued May 23, 1877, was on the same
day served by the coroner of the county, who received from the
plaintiffs a statutory bond, and delivered to them the possession
of the iron. The summons was made returnable at the next
term of the court, which began on the third Monday of June.
The declaration, which was filed June 30, alleged that plain
tiffs were the owners and lawfully entitled to the possession of
certain goods and chattels, to wit, the iron in controversy, which
formerly had been in the track of the Chicago, Danville, and
Vincennes Railroad, but that it was then lying along the Mud
Lake track, near Twenty-fourth Street, in the city of Chicago;
that it was of the value of $18,000 ; that on May 9, 1877, Kern
had wrongfully taken possession of it, and still detained the
same from them.
Kern, July 6, 1877, pleaded that he was the sheriff of Cook
County, and that as such, May 1, 1877, he had levied on and
still held the iron, by virtue of two certain executions against
the Chicago, Danville, and Vincennes Railroad Company, both
issued upon judgments in the Superior Court of Cook County,
- one in favor of the Bank of North America, and the other
in favor of John McCaffrey, for the aggregate sum of about
$11,000; and that at the time of the levy the iron was the
property of that company.
On May 81, 1877, the plaintiffs filed in the court their petition to remove said cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois. The petition
alleged that Kern was a citizen of the State of Illinois, and
that the plaintiffs at the institution of the action were, and
still continued to be, citizens of States other than Illinois; that
the amount in controversy in the suit exceeded 8500; that
there had been no trial of the suit, and the same could not have
been tried before the term at which said petition was filed;
and that the suit involved a controversy between citizens )f
different States, which could be wholly determined as between
them.

Oct. 1880.]

KERN V. HUIDEKOPER.

The petition was accompanied by the bond required by the
statute of the United States.
On June 2, the court denied the petition for removal, on the
ground that it was prematurely presented and filed; that at
that date no declaration had been filed, the defendant was not
in court, and was not required to appear until the third Monday of June.
On June 80, the petition of the plaintiffs and their bond for
the removal of the cause being still on file, and the time for
the appearance of the defendant having passed, the plaintiffs
filed their declaration, and immediately moved the court for
an order transferring the cause, in accordance with their petition, to the Circuit Court of the United States. This motion
was denied.
On July 6, the date upon which the defendant filed his plea,
and after said plea had been filed, the plaintiffs caused an order
to be entered dismissing their petition for the removal of the
cause filed May 31, and immediately filed another for the same
purpose, containing the same averments, together with a bond,
as required by the statute.
This petition was also denied by the State court.
Nevertheless, on July 27, 1877, the plaintiffs filed a transcript
of the record of the cause in the clerk's office of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
The term of that court, as prescribed by law, began on the first
Monday of that month.
On Nov. 14, 1877, the said term still continuing, that court
made an order approving the filing of the said record on July 27
preceding.
On June 5, 1878, the counsel of the plaintiffs moved that
court that an order be entered declaring that the cause had
been removed from the Circuit Court of Cook County, and
that the Circuit Court of the United States had exclusive jurisdiction thereof by reason of such removal, and that the cause
be placed on the trial calendar of the court. The court sustained the motion, and directed an order to be made in accordance therewith.
On June 26, 1878, the defendant, by his attorney, entering
special appearance for that purpose, filed a written motion in

KERN v. HUIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct,

the United States Circuit Court for the dismissal of said action.
This motion was overruled.
Al the July Term, 1878, of the Circuit Court of Cook County,
that court still claiming jurisdiction of the cause, notwithstanding the proceedings for its removal above recited, the plaintiffs
filed in that court a replication to the plea of the defendant,
in which they alleged that said railroad iron at the time of the
levy was the property of the plaintiffs, and not of the railroad
company, as alleged in defendant's plea.
On Nov. 12, 1878, the defendant moved in the Circuit Court
of the United States for leave to file a plea to the jurisdiction,
which, after argument of counsel, was granted. Thereupon,
on the same day, he filed the following plea: "The defendant, by E. Walker, his attorney, comes and
prays judgment of the said record herein filed, because he says
that the plaintiffs first instituted their said action of replevin
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, in the State of Illinois,
which said court has exclusive original jurisdiction of said
action, and caused the clerk of said State court to issue a summons against the said defendant and a writ of replevin, under
which said last-named writ the property described in said writ
and declaration was seized by the officer of said court and
delivered to the said plaintiffs.
" That said writs were made returnable to the June Term of
said court, A.D. 1877, at which said term the said defendant
appeared and filed his plea to said declaration.
"The said defendant further shows that long after the filing
of the said transcript of record in this court the said plaintiffs,
to wit, at the May Term, A.D. 1878, filed in the said Circuit
Court of Cook County their replication to the said defendant's
plea, and at said term of said State court prosecuted their said
action to a. final hearing; and such proceedings were thereupon
had in said action that afterwards, to wit, at said May Term, to
wit, on the fifth day of June, A.D. 1878, the said defendant, by
the consideration and judgment of the said Circuit Court of
Cook County, recovered a judgment against the said plaintiffs
for the return to him of the property described in said declaration and writ of replevin, being the same identical property
described in the aforesaid transcript of record, and for his costa

Oct. 1880.]

KERN V. HUIDEKOPER.

in said action, as by the record and proceedings thereof still
remaining in said Circuit Court of Cook County more fully
appear, which said judgment is in full force, unreversed and
unsatisfied, and this the defendant is ready to verify by the
record. Wherefore the said defendant prays judgment if the
court here will take jurisdiction and cognizance of the action
aforesaid."
The plaintiffs filed a demurrer to this plea, and afterwards,
on Nov. 21, 1878, the demurrer was argued. The minutes of
the court state its judgment upon the demurrer as follows : "Now come the plaintiffs by Henry Crawford, Esq., their
attorney, and the defendant by Edwin Walker, Esq., his attorney, and now comes on to be heard the demurrer of the plaintiffs to the plea to the jurisdiction herein, and after hearing the
arguments of counsel the court sustains the demurrer, to which
rulhig of the court the defendant by his counsel excepts, and
the defendant failing to make further answer herein, and electing to abide by his said plea, it is thereupon considered by the
court that the plaintiffs have and retain possession of the goods
and chattels described in the writ issued in this court," &c.
This judgment Kern seeks to reverse in this court.
The following are his assignments of error: That the Circuit Court erred 1. In overruling the motion made by the plaintiff in error on
June 20, 1878, to dismiss the said cause.
2. In sustaining the demurrer to the special plea filed by the
plaintiff in error on Nov. 12, 1878.
3. In rendering judgment against the plaintiff in error upon
the demurrer.
4. The court had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter of
the action.
The Circuit Court of Cook County and the Circuit Court of
the United States both claimed jurisdiction of the case, and
each rendered a final judgment, - the State court in favor of
the plaintiff in error, and the United States court in favor
of the defendants in error.
Most of the poihts raised upon the record will be solved by a
settlement of the question, which court had jurisdiction of the
ease when said final judgments were rendered.

KERN V. HUIDEKOPER.

[sup. Ct,

The jurisdiction was, of course, originally in the State court.
It is unnecessary to decide whether the State court rightfully
or wrongfully denied the first two petitions of the defendants
in error for the removal of the cause. The petition for its
removal, filed July 6, 1877, contained every averment required
by law. It was filed at the proper time, and it was accompanied
by a bond with good and sufficient surety, conditioned according to the statute.
According to the terms of the act of Congress it was the duty
of the State court "to accept said petition and bond and proceed no further in such suit." Act of March 8, 1875, c. 137,
sect. 3; 18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470.
Notwithstanding the refusal of the State court to make an
order for the removal of the cause, the defendants in error,
within the time prescribed by the statute, filed a transcript of
the record of the State court in the Circuit Court of the United
States. This invested the latter court with full and complete
jurisdiction of the case, for, in the language of the section just
referred to, "the said copy being entered as aforesaid in said
Circuit Court of the United States, the cause should then proceed in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced
in said Circuit Court."
If the cause is removable and the statute for its removal has
been complied with, no order of the State court for its removal
is necessary to confer jurisdiction on the court of the United
States, and no refusal of such an order can prevent that jurisdiction from attaching. Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall.
214.
It is, therefore, clear that when the defendants in error filed,
July 27, 1877, in the Circuit Court of the United States a transcript of the record of the State court, the former acquired and
the latter lost jurisdiction of the case.
The contention of the plaintiff in error seems to be, that an
action of replevin, where the sheriff -of a State court is the
defendant, is not removable, because the sheriff, an officer of
the State court, being in possession of the property, the subject
matter of the controversy, the Federal cou't is without legal
authority or power by writs, process, or orders to wrest its
e ssession from him.

Oct. 1880.]

KERN V. HUIDEKOPER.

There is no support either in the act of Congress for the
removal of causes, nor in any case adjudged by this court, for
this position.
The act of Congress makes no exception of causes where the
subject-matter of the controversy is in possession of the State
court. Under the Constitution and laws of the United States
a citizen of the United States, party in a State court to a suit
which falls within the terms of the statute for the removal of
causes, has the right to have it removed to and heard by a
United States court.
Taglr v. carryl (20 How. 583), Freeman v. Howe (24 id.
450), and Buck v. Colbath (3 Wall. 334), relied on by the
plaintiff in error, are not in point.
Those cases decide that property held by an officer of one
court by virtue of process issued in a cause pending therein,
cannot be taken from his possession by the officer of another
court of concurrent jurisdiction, upon process issued in another
case pending in the latter court.
But here there is but one case. It is brought in the State
court. It falls within the terms of the act of Congress for the
removal of causes. When the prerequisites for removal have
been performed, the paramount law of the land says that the
case shall be removed, and the case and the res both go to
the Federal court. The fact that the State court, while the
case was pending in it, had possession of the subject-matter of
the controversy, cannot prevent the removal, and when the
removal is accomplished, the State court is left without any
case, authority, or process by which it can retain possession of
the res. The suit and the subject-matter of the suit are both
transferred to the Federal court by the same act of removal,
oi when a bond for the delivery of the property has been
taken, as in this case, the bond as the representative of the
property is transferred with the suit. There is no interference
with the rightful jurisdiction of the State court, and no wresting from its possession of property which it has the right to
retain.
If the contention of the plaintiff in error is that the State
court, having seized property by virtue of a fieri facias issued
on it judgment rendered by it, the Federal court cannot take

KERN V HUIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

such property from its possession by writ of replevin, or, in
other words, that the replevin suit which was sought to be
removed in this case, could not have been originally brought
in the Federal court, the answer is that, upon the question of
removal, it is entirely immaterial whether or not the suit, as
an original action, could have been maintained in the Federal
court. In short, no provision of the State law, no peculiarity
in the nature of the litigation which would forbid the United
States court from entertaining original jurisdiction, could prevent the removal, provided the case fell within the terms of the
statute for the removal of causes. Railway Company v. Whitton, 13 Wall. 270; Insurance Company v. liorse, 20 id. 445;
Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10; Boom Company v. Patterson,
98 id. 403.
The United States court having acquired jurisdiction, and
the State court lost it by tile proper removal of the cause, has
the State court been reinvested with jurisdiction by the facts
stated in the plea to the jurisdiction filed by the defendant
below, namely, that long after the removal of the cause to the
United States court, the plaintiffs below filed their replication
in the State court, and prosecuted their action therein to a final
hearing? In other words, is the plea to the jurisdiction of the
United States court, filed by the defendant below on Nov. 12,
1878, a good plea?
It has been expressly held by this court that when a case has
been properly removed from a State into a United States court,
and the State court still goes on to adjudicate the case, against
the resistance of the party at whose instance the removal was
made, such action on its part is a usurpation, and the fact that
such a party has, after the removal, contested the suit, does not,
after judgment against him, constitute a waiver on his part of
the question of the jurisdiction of the State court to try the
case. Insurance Company v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214; Removal
Cases, 100 U. S. 457; Railroad Gompany v. Mississippi, 102
id. 135.
These cases are directly in point. In the action of replevin
the defendant, if he succeeds, recovers in effect the same judgment against the plaintiff as the plaintiff, in case he succeeds,
recovers against the defendant. So that the plaintiffs, in con-

Oct. 1880.]

KERN V. HUIDEKOPER.

testing the suit in the State court after its removal, were seek.
ing to protect themselves against a judgment in favor of the
defendant for the return of the property in controversy, a judgment which was in fact entered against them.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that by the proceedings for the
removal of this case jurisdiction over it was transferred to the
United States Circuit Court, and the filing by the plaintiffs
below of a replication in the State court, after such removal,
and the prosecution of the action to a final hearing in that
court, did not reinvest the State court with jurisdiction of the
cause, nor amount to a waiver of any rights resulting to the
plaintiffs from the removal.
This conclusion is strengthened by the fact that the plaintiffs
constantly insisted, as the record shows, upon the jurisdiction
of the United States court over the case, and even while the
case was on final trial in the State court, procured the entry of
an order in the United States court to the effect that, upon the
filing of the transcript of the record of the State court in the
United States court, the latter court acquired exclusive jurisdiction over the case.
After the filing in the United States Circuit Court, on July
27, 1877, of the record of the proceedings in the State court,
the latter lost all jurisdiction over the case, and, being without
jurisziction, its subsequent proceedings and judgment were not,
as some of the State courts have ruled, simply erroneous, but
absolutely void. Gordon v. Zongest, 16 Pet. 97; Insurance
0oumpaay v. Duia, 19 Wall. 214; Frginiav. Rives, 100 U. S.
313.
It only remains to consider the contention of the plaintiff in
error that the court below should not have entered judgment
against him after sustaining the demurrer to his plea to the
jurisdiction filed Nov. 12, 1878, because there was still remaining his plea to the merits filed July 6, 1877, before the case
was removed trom the State court.
The facts disclosed by the record make it clear that there is
no solid ground for this assignment to stand on.
The plea of Nov. 12, 1878, was a plea to the jurisdiction.
The defendant was allowed to file it on special leave asked by
him and given by the court.

DIETzsCH

v.

H'UIDEKOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

The asking of leave to plead to the jurisdiction was in
effect a withdrawal of the plea to the merits, for after a plea
in bar the defendant cannot plead to the jurisdiction of the
court; for by pleading in bar he submits to the jurisdiction.
1 Chitty, Pleading, 440, 441; Co. Lit. 303; Com. Dig., Abate,nent,C.; Bacon, Abr., Abatement (A.).
The plea in bar being in effect withdrawn by the plea to the
jurisdiction, when the demurrer to the latter was sustained the
defendant was left without plea.
If the defendant had so desired, the judgment of the court
would have been respondeat ouster. But he elected, as the
record shows, to stand by his demurrer and declined to make
any further answer. There was nothing then left for the
court to do but to pronounce judgment against him, which
was done.
There was no error in this. The suggestion that there should
have been a trial upon the plea in bar appears to have been an
afterthought.
There is no error in the record.
Judgmnent affirmed.

DIETZSCH

V. HIrDEKOPER.

1. Kern v. Huidekoper (supra, p. 485) cited and approved.
2. After the plaintiff removed to the proper Circuit Court of the United Staten
a suit in replevin brought in a State court, the latter proceeded to try it
and render judgment for a retorno habendo. An action having been thereupon brought in the State court against him and his sureties on the replevin
bond, they filed their bill in the Circuit Court, praying that the plaintiff in
that action be enjoined from further prosecuting it. Held, that the Circuit
Court properly granted the prayer of the bill.
3. The ruling in French, Trustee, v. Hay (22 Wall. 250) reaffirmed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for tha
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.Edwin Walker for the appellants.
Mr.Henry Crawford, contra.

