Oct. 1880.]

WALNUT V. WADE.

WALNUT v. WADE.
1 A bill designated as "House Bill No. 231," and having for its title, "An Act
to amend an act entitled 'An Act to incorporate the Illinois Grand Trunk
Railway,"' regularly passed the House of Representatives of the General
Assembly of Illinois. In its passage through the Senate "Illinois" was
dropped from the title, and in the message of the House to the Senate and
of the Senate to the House, reporting its passage by those bodies respectively, "Illinois" was left out of the title, but the designation as House Bill,
No. 231 was retained. The journals show no amendment to the title.
The bill as above entitled was signed by the presiding officer of each House.
The Constitution of Illinois then in force provides that "every bill shall be
read on three different days in each House, . . . and every bill having
passed both Houses shall be signed by the speakers of their respective
Houses." HcId, that the act was duly and constitutionally passed.
U The word "inhabitants," where it occurs in the first section of the act, means
legal voters.
2. After the voters of a town have, at an election held pursuant to that act,
voted in favor of a donation to aid in the construction of a railroad, the
supervisor and clerk are the proper authorities to subscribe for the stock
of the railroad company and issue the bonds of the township therefor.
4. A bona fide holder of the bonds is not bound to look beyond their recitals and
the legislative enactment under which they were issued.
5. The fact that the coupons are made payable at a particular place does not
make it necessary to aver or prove a presentation of them for payment
there.
6. Coupons bear interest from their maturity, and, when severed from the bonds,
are negotiable, and pass by delivery.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William U. Goudy and Mr. Allan C. Story for plaintiff
in error.

31r. 17Tomas S. MceClelland and Mr. George A. Sanders for
the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought upon one thousand and ten coupons
for ten dollars each, representing the annual interest on three

hundred and twenty-one bonds for the sum of one hundred dollars each, purporting to be executed by the township of Walnut. It was claimed that the bonds were issued in aid of the

WALNUT V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

Illinois Grand Trunk Railway Company, and in payment of
stock in that company subscribed for by the plaintiff in error
and delivered to it.
The coupons bore the following numbers: From 1 to 200
inclusive, 258, and from 281 to 400 inclusive, and were cut
from bonds bearing corresponding numbers.
Before final judgment in the court below the defendant in
error took a nonsuit as to all coupons sued on bearing numbers
from 301 to 400 inclusive, and withdrew the same from consideration by the court, and left, as the cause of action, only those
coupons which bore numbers under 301.
The declaration set out a copy of one of the coupons sued
on and averred that all the others were of the same tenor and
effect except as to their numbers and date of payment respectively. The copy was as follows: "No. 251.
"910.1

Series 4, due January 1, 1875, for '10.
WALNUT TowNsunr.

[No. 251.

"12ailroadBond.
"Interest Warrant.
"Supervisor of Walnut Township pay to bearer, January 1,
1875, ten dollars, at the office of the State treasurer, Springfield,
Illinois.
,Wm. SNDims, Town Cler.
"M. KmGHT, Supervisor."
The parties waived a trial by jury and submitted the cauce
to the court upon the issues of fact as well as of law. The
court made a special finding of facts, as follows : "1First, That said defendant town, by its town clerk and
supervisor, did, some time in the month of October, A.D. 1870,
make its four hundred bonds for the sum of one hundred dollars each, and numbered consecutively from one to four hundred, inclusive, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of forty
thousand dollars, said bonds bearing interest at the rate of ten
per cent per annum, payable annually, and the principal thereof
payable to the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway or bearer on the
first day of January, A. D. 1881, and dated January 1, 1871,
said interest being evidenced by ten interest-warrants or cou-

Oct. 1880.1

WALNUT

V. WADE.

pons for ten dollars each, payable to bearer and attached to said
bonds, as set out in the declaration in this case. That 3aid
bonds recited on their face that they were issued to said Illinois
Grand Trunk Railway by authority of an act of the legislature
of the State of Illinois, approved March 25, 1869, entitled ' An
Act to amend an act entitled "An Act to incorporate the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway,"' and 'in pursuance of a vote of
the people of said town, had and taken June 25, 1870,' being
the same bonds described in plaintiff's declaration. That the
coupons described in said declaration were cut from the first
three hundred of said bonds, and are all due and unpaid.
"S econd, That at some time in the month of January, A. D.
1871, the supervisor and town clerk of said town, acting for
and in behalf of said town, subscribed for forty thousand dollars of the capital stock of said Illinois Grand Trunk Railway,
and issued and delivered said four hundred bonds to said railway in payment of said subscription, and that within ten or
fifteen days therefrom the said railway corporation sold said
bonds for value, and applied the proceeds to the construction
of its railroad through said town; and that said plaintiff, on
day of September, A. D. 1871, bought the bonds from
the
which the coupons sued on were detached, and also all the coupons thereto attached and unpaid, in good faith, in the New
York market, and paid therefor in money at the rate of ninetytwo and one-half cents on the dollar, without actual notice of
any defence whatever against said bonds or coupons.
"7Tdrd, That the said act of the legislature of the State of
Illinois, approved March 25, 1869, entitled ' An Act to amend
an act to incorporate the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway,' was
duly and constitutionally passed by the General Assembly of
said State of Illinois.
"Fourth, That the voters of said town, at an election duly
called and held in said town, pursuant to the provisions of said
act, on the twenty-fifth day of June, 1870, voted that said town
would subscribe for thirty thousand dollars of the capital stock
of said railway, and in payment therefor issue the bonds of said
town for the amount of said stock, bearing ten per cent interest annually, and the principal sum payable in ten years from
their date.

WALNUT V. WADE.

[Sul). Ct

"That on the sixth day of August, 1870, at another election
called and held in pursuance of the requirements of said act, the
electors of said town voted to subscribe for ten thousand dollars
of the capital stock of said railway, in addition to the thirty
thousand dollars voted on the twenty-fifth day of June, 1870,
to be paid for in bonds of said town, bearing the same rate of
interest and payable at the same time as the bonds to be issued
for said thirty thousand dollars subscription.
"Fifth, That the coupons offered in evidence and upon which
judgment is rendered in this case were cut from bonds of said
issue numbered from one to three hundred."
Besides this special finding the record contained a bill of
exceptions which embodied all the evidence submitted by both
parties in the case.
Upon the special finding the court rendered judgment for
the plaintiff below for the principal sum due on the coupons,
and for interest thereon from the date when they were payable
respectively..
The alleged act of the legislature, by authority of which it
was claimed the bonds were issued, is as follows: "An Act to amend an act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the
Illinois Grand Trunk Railway.'
"SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly, that any city, incorporated
town, or township which may be situated on or near the route of
the Illinois Grand Trunk railway, west of the city of Mendota, via
Prophetstown, to the Mississippi River, may become subscribers to
the stock of said railway, and may issue bonds for the amount of
such stock so subscribed, with coupons for interest thereto attached,
under such limitations and restrictions and on such conditions as
they may choose, and the directors of said company may approve
the proposition for said subscription, having been first submitted to
th6 i habitants of such city, town, or township. and approvea by
them; and upon application of any ten voters of any city, town, or
township, as aforesaid, specifying the amount to be subscribed, and
the conditions of such subscription, it shall be the duty of the clerk
of such city, town, or township immediately to call an election, in
the same manner that other elections for said city, town, or township
are called, for the purpose of determining whether said city, town, or
township will subscribe to the stock of said railway; and if a majority

Oct. 1880..]

WALNUT

V. WADE.

of said votes shall be ' for subscription,' then the corporate authorities of said city, town, or township, and the supervisor and town
clerk of said township so voting, shall cause said subscription to be
made; and upon its acceptance by the directors of said company
shall cause bonds to be issued in conformity with said vote, which
bonds shall not be of less denomination than one hundred dollars,
and in no case bear a higher rate of interest than ten per cent, provided no such election shall be held until at least thirty days'
previous notice thereof shall be given in the manner prescribed
by law.
"SEcT. 2. It shall be the duty of the proper authorities of any
city, town, or township, issuing bonds as aforesaid, to make all
necessary arrangements, and provide for the prompt payment of
all interest and other liabilities accruing thereon, and to levy such
taxes as may be necessary therefor as other taxes are levied by
them.
"SECT. 3. This act shall be liberally construed for the purposes
intended and expressed therein, and shall be held to be a public act,
and shall be in force from and after its passage." Approved March
25, 1869.
This act was passed while the Constitution of Illinois of
1848 was in force.
That Constitution contained the following provision (sect. 23
of art. 3) :"Every bill shall be read on three different days in each House
* and every bill having passed both Houses shall be signed
by the speakers of their respective Houses; and no private or
local law which may be passed by the General Assembly shall
embrace more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the
title."
On July 2,1870, a vote was taken by the voters of the State
of Illinois, which resulted in the adoption of a new constitution
and of certain separate articles, one of which reads as follows,
and it took effect that day: "No county, city, town, township, or other municipality shall
ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railway or private corporation, or make donation to or loan its credit in aid of
such corporation : Provided, howev6r, that the adoption of this
article shall not be construed as affecting the right of such munici-

WALNUT V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

pality to make such subscriptions where the same have been authorized under existing laws by a vote of the people of such municipalities prior to such adoption."
The first assignment of error relates to the finding of the
court, that the act by authority of which the bonds in question
were issued "was duly and constitutionally passed." The
plaintiff in error disputes this finding.
A question arises here whether this finding is open to
challenge.
One thing is clear, that there can be no review in this court
of the finding of fact made in the court below.
Sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes declares: "The finding of
the court upon the facts, which may be either general or special, shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury."
The office of a bill of exceptions, where the facts are tried
by the court, is pointed out by sect. 700, Revised Statutes:
"The rulings of the court in the progress of the trial of the
cause, if excepted to at the time and duly presented by a bill of
exceptions, may be reviewed by the Supreme Court upon a writ
of error or upon appeal, and when the finding is special the
review may extend to the determination of the sufficiency of
the facts found to support the judgment."
In Norris v. Jackson (9 Wall. 125), this court said: "A
special finding is not a mere report of the evidence, but a
statement of the ultimate facts on which the law of the case
must determine the rights of the parties; a finding of the
propositions of fact which the evidence establishes, and not
the evidence on which those ultimate facts are supposed to
rest. . . . Whether the finding be general or special, it shall
have the same effect as the verdict of a jury; that is to say, it
is conclusive as to the facts so found ....
In the case of a
special verdict [finding] the question is presented as it would
be if tried by a jury, whether the facts thus found require a
judgment for plaintiff or defendant. . . . The bill of exceptions, while professing to detail all the evidence, is no special
finding of the facts."
It is thus seen that the only use which can be made of the
bill of exceptions, when there is a special finding of facts, is to
present the rulings Pf the court in the progress of the tria

Oct. 1680.]

WALNUT

V. WADE.

upon questions of law. The facts are conclusively settled by
the finding of the court.
But the finding under consideration is not a finding of fact
but of law. The question whether an alleged statute "is
really a law or not, is a judicial one, and is to be settled and
determined by the court and judges, and is not a question of
fact to be determined by a jury." Town, of South Ottawa v.
Perkins, 94 U. S. 260; Gardner v. The Collector, 6 Wall.
499.
So, notwithstanding the finding of the court below, the
question whether the act of March 25, 1869, was duly and
constitutionally passed, is, as one of law, open for examination
here, - the decision of the court on it having been excepted to
at the proper time. And in deciding it, not only the facts
presented by the bill of exceptions, but any other accessible
competent evidence may be considered.
The plaintiff in error insists that the evidence set out in the
bill of exceptions does not sustain the finding under consideration; in other words, that there is error in law in the holding
of the court, that upon the facts disclosed the statute in question was duly and constitutionally passed.
It is settled by the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois
that the journals of the legislature may be resorted to for the
purpose of overthrowing the prma facie evidence of the constitutional enactment of a law furnished by the signatures of
the presiding officers of the two Houses. Town of South Ottawa
v. Perkins, supra, where those decisions on this subject are
collected.
Both parties upon the trial in the court below introduced the
journalb of the two Houses of the Illinois legislature, - one to
prove and the other to disprove the constitutional passage of
the law. From this evidence it appears that the bill in question when introduced into the House was designated and
distinguished as House Bill No. 231, and with the title "An
Act to amend an act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway.'" It regularly passed the House
with this title, having been read three times on three different
days and having been referred to and reported by a committee.
voL. XIII.

44

WALNUT V. WADE.[upCt

[Sup. (t

In the Senate, according to the journals, the proceedings
were as follows: On February 8, a message was received from
the House to the effect that itihad passed House Bill No. 231,
entitled an act to amend an act entitled "An Act to incorporate the Grand Trunk Railway." On February 9, the
bill with the same number and title was read the first and second time and referred to a standing committee. On March 4,
House Bill No. 231, for "An Act to amend an act entitled an
act to incorporate the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway," was
reported back with amendments by the committee, to which
House Bill No. 281 had been referred, which recommended
that as amended it be read a third time and passed. The next
day House Bill No. 231, and with the same title, except that
the word "Illinois" was omitted therefrom, was read a third
time and passed.
The Senate amendments to House Bill No. 231, with the
same title as that under which it passed the House, were agreed
to by the House. In the messages between the two Houses, in
which the passage of the bill by each is reported to the other,
the word "Illinois" is omitted from the title, but its designation as House Bill No. 231 is preseryed. The bill, after its
final passage, was enrolled as House Bill No. 231, with the
title, "An Act to amend an act to incorporate the Illinois
Grand Trunk Railway," and it was signed by that title by the
presiding officers of both Houses and approved and signed by
the governor.
We are now called on to decide whether upon this evidence
the court below was justified in holding that the act was duly
and constitutionally passed.
The evidence discloses the fact that in its passage through
the Senate, according to the journal of that body, the word
"Illinois" was twice dropped from the title of the bill, and
that in the message of the House to the Senate and of the Senate to the House reporting the passage of the bill by those
bodies respectively, the word "Illinois" is left out of the title
of the bill.
The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the omission
of the word "Illinois" from the title of the bill in several of
its stages in the Senate, and especially in its final passage,

Oct. 1880.]

WALNUT V. WADE.

defeats it as a law and renders the enactment null and void.
The ground of this claim is that, according to the journals of
the two Houses, "one bill by one title passed the House and
another bill by another title passed the Senate."
The evidence of the journals of the two Houses satisfies us
that beyond question there was but one bill, and that was
House Bill No. 231, "to amend an act entitled an act to incorporate the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway;" that this bill
regularly passed through all stages by both Houses without any
change in its title, was signed by their presiding officers respectively, and was approved and signed by the governor.
The journals show no amendment to the title of the bill in
either House. It is, therefore, perfectly clear that the omission
of the word "Illinois" from the title in some of the stages of
its passage through the Senate was a mere clerical error in
keeping the journal-,_ The designation of the bill as House
Bill No. 231 was preserved in all the stages of its passage
through both Houses, and until it was finally signed by the presiding officers of the two Houses and approved by the governor.
The statute-book of the State of Illinois shows that only one
act was ever passed to incorporate any "Grand Trunk Rail
way" and that was the act to incorporate the Illinois Grand
Trunk Railway. Therefore the act in question must have
been an amendment to that act of incorporation, and could be
an amendment to no other.
The fact of the identity of the bill passed by the two Houses
is so clear that it seems to us no court could have any doubt
on the subject.
In the case of Larrison v. Peoria,Atlanta, t Decatur Rail
road Co. (77 Ill. 11), it appeared that by some clerical error
the bill was introduced into the Senate as "Senate Bill No.
453, for an act to incorporate the Peoria, Atlanta, & Danville Railroad Company," thus changing the name of Decatur,
in the title, to Danville; but as the bill preserved its identity
by holding its number, "453," the Supreme Court of Illinois
decided that the act was constitutionally passed. It said :"And the question is, was the bill for the act read three
times in the Senate before its passage by that body ? If the
entries on the journal refer to the same bill, then the require-

WALNUT V. WADE.

[Sul Ct.

ments of the organic law are satisfied. The question is one of
identity. Do these entries show there was one or two bills
acted upon by the Senate? The number is the same throughout.
About that there is not the pretence of the slightest doubt, and
it is manifest that to have more than one bill pending at the
same time, with the same number, would lead to confusion; it
would defeat the very object of numbering bills, which is to
preserve their identity and prevent confusion."
Another objection, based on the fact that the journals do
not preserve the exact title of the bill in all the stages of its
passage through the Senate, is that the title did not at all
times conform to the constitutional requirement that the subject of the bill should be expressed therein.
There is no rule of parliamentary law, and there is no provi.
sion of the Constitution of Illinois, which requires a bill to
preserve the same title through all its stages in both Houses.
Larrison v. Peoria, Atlanta, & Decatur Railroad Co., supra;
Binz v. Weber, 81 Ill. 288; Plummer v. People, 74 id. 361.
But, as already said, it is sufficiently clear from the journals of
the two Houses that no change whatever was made in the title
of the bill in either House, and that the omission of the word
"Illinois" from the title, as given in the journals of the Senate,
was a mere clerical error, which could deceive or mislead no
one. We are of opinion that these objections to the act are
slender grounds for declaring to be null and void a law which
appears on the statute-book of a State, and is found among its
archives.
It is next insisted that the title of the act, as it appears upon
the statute-book of the State, does not express its subject.
The Supreme Court of Illinois has substantially decided this
point against the plaintiff in error in the case of Belleville
Railroad Co. v. Gregory, 15 Ill. 20. See also Unity v. Burrage, supra, p. 447, where other cases decided by the Supreme
Court of Illinois, on this question, are cited. San Antonio v.
ktehaffy, 96 U.S. 312.
We are clear, therefore, that the Circuit Court was right in
holding that the act, by authority of which the bonds in question were issued, was duly and constitutionally passed.,
It is next contended by the plaintiff in error, that, under the

Oct. 1880.]

WALNUT V. WADE.

act referred to, the corporate authorities of the township alone,
could make the subscription to the stock of the railroad company and issue the bonds of the township. This claim is based
on sect. 5, art. 9, of the Constitution of Illinois of 1848, which
prohibits the legislature from authorizing any person to impose a burden of debt on the township, except the corporate
authorities.
The stock was subscribed and the bonds were issued in this
case by the supervisor and clerk, and it is insisted that neither
the act of the legislature nor the Constitution of the State
allowed this to be done; that it could only be done by the
corporate authorities, which included the legal voters as well as
the supervisor and clerk.
In construing a similar statute, passed under the Constitution
of 1848, the Supreme Court of Illinois has decided that, after a
vote by the electors of a township in favor of a donation to aid
in the construction of a railroad, the supervisor and clerk of
the township were the proper corporate authorities to subscribe
for the stock of the company, and issue the bonds of the township therefor. Town of"Whidsor v. Hallett, 97 Ill. 204 ; Town
of Douylass v. lViantiv Savings Bank (not yet reported).
These cases are conclusive of this question, if, indeed, it
needed any authority to settle it.
The next point made by the plaintiff in error is that the act
of March 25, 1869, by authority of which the bonds were issued,
did not authorize an election to be held on the question of subscribing stock in the railway company, at which only legal
voters should vote; that the word "inhabitants," whose approval the act requires, cannot be construed to mean "voters"
or " electors."
No copy of the bonds appears in the pleadings in this case.
The special finding of the court, to which alone we are authorized to look to ascertain the facts upon which the judgment of
the court rests, declares that the bonds recite on their face
that they are issued "in pursuance of a vote of the people of
said town, held and taken June 25, 1870."
The popular signification of the words "people of a town"
and "inhabitants of a town " is the same; so that, according
to the finding of the court, the bonds recited on their face a

WALNUT V. WADE.

[Sup. Ot

substantial compliance with the requirement of the statute that
the proposition for the subscription to the stock of the railroad
company should be submitted to the "inhabitants of the town
and affirmed by them." The plaintiff being, as appears from
the findings of the court, a bona fide holder of the bonds without notice, is not bound to go behind this recital.
But it is not necessary, in order to maintain the validity of
the bonds, to rely on this finding.
The findings of the court show that the "voters" of said
town, on June 25, 1870, voted in favor of the proposition to
subscribe $30,000 to the stock of the said railroad company.
We think that, by a fair construction of the act, this
was all that was necessary. The act, it is true, requires the
approval of the "1inhabitants" of the town. In its broadest
sense this would include all sexes, ages, and conditions. To
require the approval by a vote of the "inhabitants" in this
sense would be an absurdity. The act itself is its own interpreter, and shows that this is not its meaning. It provides
that, upon the application of ten voters, it shall be the duty
of the clerk " to call an election, in the same manner that
other elections for said city, town, or township are called, for
the purpose of determining whether said city, town, or township will subscribe to the stock of said railway."
The calls for "other elections for said city, town, or town
ship" are addressed to the legal voters, and legal voters only
are allowed to vote. The act, though carelessly drawn, clearly
meant to restrict the election to the voters, and the approval of
the "inhabitants" was to be indicated by the vote of a majority
of the legal voters. This approval the finding of the court
shows was obtained.
The intimation that the law required two elections for precisely the same purpose, one at which the inhabitants, and the
other at which the electors, of the town should vote, imputes to
the General Assembly an absurdity in legislation which the
language of the act utterly fails to justify.
We think, therefore, that this assignment of error is without
substantial ground to rest on.
It appears from the finding of the court that an election
was held on June 25, 1870, on the proposition to subscribe

Oct. 1880.]

WALNUT

V. WADE.

$30,000 to said railroad company. The plaintiff in error claims
that this proposition was never approved by the directors of the
company, and, therefore, that the bonds issued to carry this
proposition into effect were issued without authority, and are,
therefore, invalid.
There are two answers to this claim: 1. The act of March
25, 1869, does not require the approval of the directors of the
company to the proposition as a condition precedent to the subscription of stock and the issue of bonds. 2. The court finds
that the bonds contained recitals averring that they were issued
by authority of the act of March 25, 1869, and in pursuance of
a vote of the people of said town, which is in effect an averment
that the conditions prescribed by said act to be performed before said bonds could be issued had been in fact performed.
Whether the conditions precedent had been complied with was
a question which was in effect left by the law to the "corporate
authorities" who issued the bonds, to decide. The plaintiff,
therefore, being a bona fide holder, was not bound to look
beyond the legislative act and the recitals in the bonds. Town
of C'oloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Marcy v. Township of Oswego,
id. 637.
The bill of exceptions shows that the plaintiff in error objected to the admission in evidence of the coupons sued on,
because, 1, they were not presented to the proper officers or
demand of payment made thereon and notice given to the
drawers before suit; 2, because they were detached from and
not annexed to any bond, and the absence of the bond was not
accounted for, and the same were not negotiable paper sufficient to base an action upon; and, 3, because said coupons
never were indorsed and are not negotiable by delivery.
None of these grounds of objection are tenable. The form
of the coupons does not change their nature. They are evi
denees of the sums due for interest on the bonds. The fact
that they are made payable at a particular place does not make
a presentation for payment at that place necessary before a suit
can be maintained on them. Wallace v. McConnell, 13 Pet.
136; I'vine v. Withers, 1 Stew. (Ala.) 234; Montgomery v.
Elliott, 6 Ala. 701.
The second and third grounds of objection are answered by

WALNUT V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct

the decision of this court in Clark v. Iowa City (20 Wall. 583),
where it is said: "Coupons for instalments of interest when
severed from bonds are negotiable and pass by delivery. They
then cease to be incidents, and become in fact independent
claims, and they do not lose their validity if for any cause the
bonds are cancelled or paid before maturity, nor their negoti
able character, nor their ability to support separate actions."
See also Aurora City v. West, 7 id. 82; Tkompson v. Lee
County, 3 id. 327.
It is next alleged for error that the Circuit Court allowed
interest on the coupons sued on to be included in the judgment.
The coupons bore interest from the day when they were payable. Aurora City v. West, supra ; Clark v. Iowa 'ity, supra;
Town of Genoa v. Woodruff, 92 U. S. 502.
There is nothing in the act authorizing the issue of the
bonds to which the coupons belonged that takes them out of
these decisions. And we have been referred to no legislation
in the State of Illinois which forbids the allowance of interest
on this kind of commercial paper.
The failure to present the coupons for payment does not
prevent the running of interest. If the town had shown that
it had money ready to pay the coupons at the time and place
where they were payable, this would have been a defence to
the claim for interest. Wallace v. McConnell, supra. But
no such proof was offered, nor was it claimed that the fact
existed.
Finally, the fact that the corporate authorities of the plaintiff in error issued bonds to the amount of $40,000, when the
election held on June 25, 1870, only authorized the issue of
$30,000, can have no effect on the rights of the defendant in
error to his judgment in this case. The finding of the court is,
that his bonds recited on their face that they were issued by
authority of the act of March 25, 1869, and in pursuance of
the vote taken June 25, 1870.
There was nothing in the act which placed any limit to the
amount of stock which the town might subscribe, and the recitals of the bouds gave no notice to the holder that the bonds
issued exceeded the amount of stock which the town had voted
to subscribe. There was nothing to arouse the suspicions of a

Oct. 1880.]

OHIo e.

FRANK.

purchaser ; nothing to put him on inquiry. As the defendant
in error is a bona fide holder for value, the fact that the amount
of the bonds issued by the corporate authorities exceeded by
10,000 the amount of stock voted for by the inhabitants June
25, 1870, can have no influence upon his right to a recovery
upon the bonds which he holds.
We find no error in the record..
Judgment affirred.

Ono v.

FRANK.

1. The rulings in Walnut v. Wade (supra, p. 683) reaffirmed.
2. The court enforces the ruling of the Supreme Court of Illinois, that a note
given in that State for a sum of money at a stipulated rate of interest not
exceeding ten per cent per annum bears that rate as long as the principal
remains unpaid.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Xr. William C. Goudy and Mr. Allan C. Story for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. J. Hf. Roberts and Mr. Shelby A. Cullom for the defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action upon bonds issued by the town of Ohio,
the plaintiff in error, and upon certain unpaid coupons attached
to them. The bonds were issued by authority of the act of the
legislature of Illinois of March 25, 1869, referred to in Walnut
v. Wade, supra,p. 683. That case decided every question raised
in this except one, which relates to the matter of interest on
the bonds.
That interest was at the rate of ten per cent per annum.
In entering judgment the court below included interest upon
the bonds at that rate from their maturity until the date of the
judgment. This was assigned for error because there was no

