WATER-WORKS

Co.

v. BARRET.

[Sup. Ct.

WATER-WORKS CoMPANY v. BARRET.
1. An order made by the court below, pursuant to the consent of partieo, 13
binding upon them here.
2. A company who, under a contract with a city, was constructing water-works,
executed a mortgage on them, to secure certain bonds and the coupons
thereto attached, which stipulates that if the company shall fail, for the
space of ninety days, to pay the coupons when they shall become due, provided such failure is not caused by the city under the contract, all of the
bonds shall become due, and the lien of the mortgage may be enforced for
the whole debt. Coupons remained due and unpaid for the specified period.
Held, that the bill need not negative the failure of the city, but that such
failure, if it existed, must be set up as matter of defence.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Augustus H. Garlandfor the appellant.
Mr. U. M. Rose, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The Little Rock Water-works Company, a corporation
under the laws of the State of Arkansas, undertook to construct
a system of water-works for the use of the city of Little Rock
and the citizens of that city, under an ordinance passed by the
city authorities.
In order to raise the money necessary to do this work the
company issued its bonds to the amount of $80,000, the payment of which was secured by a mortgage on its entire works
and property to Barret and Alexander, as trustees, who, on
failure of payment of the semi-annual interest coupons, brought
in the State court this foreclosure suit. In its progress it was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, where a
receiver was appointed to take charge of the property pending
the litigation. The court rendered a final decree ordering a
sale to satisfy the full amount of the bonds and coupons secured by the mortgage. This appeal was taken by the com.
pany.
Two errors are assigned :1. The appointment of a receiver.

Oct. 1880.]

WATER-WORKS

Co. v.

BARRET.

2. The rendering of a decree for the amount of the bonds
which by their terms are not yet due.
As regards the first assignment of error, it is sufficient to say
that the record shows that the appointment of receiver was
made by consent of parties, the attorneys of appellant being in
court at the time. However other parties may complain of this
act, and there were other parties, none of whom have appealed,
the present appellants are bound by their consent in this court
,ts well as in the court below, and cannot be heard to object to
what they then agreed to.
As to the second error assigned, the counsel for appellant
says, "The court will search in vain through the bill, two
amended bills, and supplemental bill, to find any reason why
the appellees should have a decree for the payment of bonds
which will not be due for many years." Yet in the very body
of the original bill is a long extract from the deed of trust on
which the suit is founded, a part of which is in this language:
"It is further agreed that in the event said party of the first
part (the water-works company) shall fail for the space of
ninety days to pay the semi-annual interest due on said bonds
as and when the same may become due, or any of said annual
instalments of the sinking-fund as and when the same may
become due, provided that such failure is not caused by the
said city of Little Rock under the contract aforesaid, after
presentation and demand of the payment of said coupons, or
after the demand of any instalment of said sinking-fund, then
and in that event all of said bonds shall become due and payable, and the lien hereby created may be enforced for the whole
debt." The bill shows that one set of coupons was due and
unpaid over ninety days when this suit was begun, that others
fell due during the litigation, and that the company was insolvent and the works going to ruin. A copy of the deed of trust
is made a part of the bill by reference and is attached to it as
an exhibit.
It is said, however, that it does not appear by any allegation
of the bill that the failure to pay was not by reason of the fault
of the city of Little Rock mentioned in the mortgage. It seems
probable that the fault of the city, which might mitigate the
failure of the company to pay its interest, so far as to prevent

GREEN v.

FISK.

[Sup. Or.

the whole sum falling due for that failure, had reference to the
money which the city had agreed to pay for the use of water
in the public buildings and certain hydrants which were to be
for public use.
If there was any such fault in the city it was matter of deience to be made out by the defendant, for the innocent purchaser of the bonds could not be supposed to know whether the
city had paid as it should or not. No such case is made by
the appellant. On the contrary, it appears that the appellant
did not construct the works, but let out the job to Dennis Long
and Samuel A. Miller; that by reason of their failure to do the
work according to the contract of the company with the city,
the latter refused to accept it, and the company sued Long and
Miller for that cavse and attached the work they had constructed, which suit was pending when the foreclosure suit
began, the record of the former being made a part of the latter.
It was obviously the fault of the appellant and not the city
which caused the default in paying the coupons.
These are all the errors assigned, and they are not sustained
by the record.
-)ecree affirmed.

GREEn v. FISK.
Upon a petition filed by A., alleging that he was the owner of an undivided half
of certain real estate which was not susceptible of a division, and praying
for a partition thereof by sale, the court below decreed that he was ent.
tied to one-half of the property, and referred the case to a master, "to
proceed to a partition according to law, under the direction of the court."
Held, that this is not a final decree, and that an appeal does not lie there.
from.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Thomas J. Durant and Mr. Charles W. Honor in support
of the motion.
Mr. Thomas . Semmes, coitra.

