SUPERVISORS V. KENNICOTT.

[Sul). LL

SuPERVIsoRS v. KENN1TICOTT.
1. A stipulation, signed by the parties or their attorneys, and filed with the clerk
of the Circuit Court, submitting a civil cause for trial on an agreed statement of facts, is "a stipulation in writing waiving a jury," within the meaning of sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes.
2. This court has authority, under sect. 700 of the Revised Statutes, to determine, as in case of a special verdict, whether the facts set forth in such
statement are sufficient in law to support the judgment, although the finding of the Circuit Court on them be in form general.
3. An appeal was taken by a county from a decree of foreclosure rendered
against it upon a mortgage of its lands, to secure the bonds of a railroad
company. The decree was affirmed, and the costs of the appeal were paid.
Held, that the liability of the cc,unty and its sureties upon the sup' rsedeas
bond is limited to such damages as resulted from a delay in the sale of the
lands, and does not include the balance remaining unpaid of the decree
after applying thereto the proceeds of the sale, nor the interest thereon
which accrued pending the appeal.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by 1Vr. C. C. Boggs for the plaintiff in,
error, and by Samuel J. (rooks for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The County of Wayne, Illinois, mortgaged its swamp and
overflowed lands to secure an issue of bonds by the Mt. Vernon
Railroad Company. The county was in no way bound for the
payment of the debt. It simply mortgaged its lands for the
benefit of the company. Default having been made in the pay
ment of the bonds, a suit was begun in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Illinois to foreclose the mortgage. In this suit a decree was entered, June
25, 1874, finding the amount due from the company on its
bonds, and directing that the lands of the county be sold and
the proceeds applied to the debt. From this decree the county
appealed to this court, giving a bond, with a large number of
persons as sureties, in the penal sum of %40,000, conditioned
according to law, for a supersedeas. At the October Term,

Oct. 1880.]

SUPERVISORS

V. IKENNICOT.

1876, the decree below was affirmed here with costs and the
cause remanded. Supervisors v. Kennicott, 94 U. S. 498.
This was a suit on the appeal and supersedeas bond, the
allegations in the declaration as to damages being as follows "A large amount of damages hath accrued to the said plaintiffs by the failure of the said board of supervisors to make
giod their plea, to wit, the amount of $100,000, consisting of
--40,U00 of interest which accrued on said decree during the
pondency of said appeal, which is wholly unpaid, and of
8200,000 of said decree remaining unsatisfied by sale of the
lands ordered by said decree, and of $50,000 depreciation in
the value of said lands during the pendency of said appeal,
and of $25,000, attorneys' fees for attending to said appeal,
and $50,000 taxes on said lands during the pendency of said
appeal."
The bill of exceptions shows that the case was submitted to
the court on an agreed state of facts, it being stipulated "that
pleas proper in such case were on file." This agreed statement
purported to be signed by the attorneys for the plaintiff, the
attorney for the county, and the attorney for the sureties on
the bond. The part material to the questions presented here
is as follows: "It is further agreed, that, so far as the right of recovery in
this case is concerned, it shall be deemed and considered that a
sale of the lands in the decree described had been made and
approved by the court before the commencement of this suit,
and that the lands in the decree and mortgage and trust deed
mentioned did not bring enough at said sale to satisfy and pay
the amount due the complainant under the decree as holders
of the bonds of said railroad company by an amount largely over
the amount of the appeal bond in this cause sued on, and that
the interest at the legal rate on the aggregate amount of the
bonds of the railroad company found due the complainants as
established by the decree during the pendency of said appeal
would amount to a sum largely exceeding the amount of the
appeal bond in this cause sued on."
It was further admitted, as appears of record, that the costs
of the appeal had been paid.

.SUPERVISORS

v.

KENNICOTT.

[Sup. CL.

Upon the facts so stated and agreed the court found generally for the plaintiffs on the issue and that they bad sustained
damage to the amount of $40,000, the penalty of the bond.
Judgment was given accordingly. To reverse that judgment
this writ of error has been prosecuted.
It is contended by the defendants in error that the case cannot be re-examined here on its merits,- 1, because the record
does not show that a," stipulation in writing waiving a jury"
was filed with the clerk, as required by sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes; and, 2, because the finding of the court was in
form general, and not special, as required by sect. 700.
1. As to the waiver of a jury. The record does contain a
stipulation in writing signed by the attorneys of the respective
parties, submitting the cause to the court for trial on the
agreed facts. As a case cannot be submitted to the court for
trial without waiving a jury, a stipulation to submit, especially
if it be on agreed facts, is of itself a sufficient waiver to meet
the requirements of sect. 649.
2. As to the finding. Even before the act of 1865, c. 86,
sect. 4 (13 Stat. 501, reproduced in sects. 649 and 700, Rev.
Stat.), it was always held that a judgment on agreed facts
spread at large on the record could be reviewed here on a writ
of error. United States v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 291; Stimipson v.
Baltimore & Susquehanna Railroad Co., 10 How. 329; Graham v. Bayne, 18 id. 60; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 id. 427;
Campbell v. Boyreau, 21 id. 223 ; Burr v. Des Moines Company,
1 Wall. 99. Such a statement was considered to be equivalent
to a special verdict and to present questions of law alone for
the consideration of the court. It is manifest that the act of
1865 was not intended to interfere with this practice. The
evident object of that legislation was to give special findings
the same effect for the purposes of a writ of error as a special
verdict or an agreed case.
This record shows distinctly that the court was only required
to determine whether in law, on the agreed facts, the defendants were liable on their bond. It is true that in the judgment
as entered it is stated that the court found the issue in favor of
the plaintiffs, but that, when read in connection with the bill
of exceptions, is no more than a declaration that the court

Oct. 1880.]

SUPERVISORS V. KENNICOTT.

found the law to be in favor of the plaintiff on the case 'as
stated.
There were in fact no pleadings after the declaration, and
the effect of the stipulation that pleas proper to the case were
on file was that the pleadings presented in form the case as
stated, and left nothing for the court to do but to enter judgment thereon. There was no issue but of law, and that the
court found for the plaintiffs. The same case is brought here
by the record, and we are entirely satisfied it is one we have
the power to review.
This brings us to the consioeration of the assignment of
errors, which is to the effect that the court was wrong in giving judgment for the plaintiffs. Sect. 1000 of the Revised
Statutes provides that when an appeal "is a supersedeas and
stays execution," the security must be that the appellant "shall
prosecute his appeal to effect, and, if he fails to make his plea
good, shall answer all damages and costs." In regulating the
practice under this statute, we, by our Rule 29, provide that in
suits on mortgages "indemnity . . . is only required in an
amount sufficient to secure the sum recovered, for the use and
detention of the property, and the costs of the suit, and 'just
damages for delay,' and costs and interest on the appeal." The
damages to be answered for are clearly only such as are incident to the plea that fails, that is to say, the appeal that is
taken.
The appeal of Wayne County was from a decree which subjected its lands to the payment of the debt of the railroad company. By taking the appeal no new obligations were assumed
in respect to the debt. Clearly, then, the damages which the
county and its sureties bound themselves to answer must have
been such only as followed from the delay in the sale of the
property. That does not necessarily imply an obligation to
pay the balance which remains of the mortgage debt after the
entire proceeds of the lands have been applied to its satisfaction.
In Jeronze v. Ll3cCarter (21 Wall. 17), we held that our rule
did not require security for the payment of all the accumulation of interest on the mortgage debt pending the appeal, but
only indemnity against loss by reason of such accumulation.

SUPERVISORS V. KENNICOTT.

[Sup. Or.

the amount of whicL would depend in each case on its own
facts.
The damages in this case claimed by the plaintiffs are, 1, for
interest on the debt which accrued during the appeal; 2, the
balance of the decree which remained unsatisfied after the sale;
3, depreciation in the value of the lands; 4, attorney's fees; and,
5, taxes on the lands. No claim is made for the use and detention of the property otherwise than in this way. The agreed
case shows that there was an accumulation of interest on the
debt during the appeal largely exceeding the penalty of the
bond, and that a balance of the mortgage debt, also much more
than the penalty of the bond, was left unpaid when the proceeds of the sale had all been applied in accordance with the
terms of the decree. This is the extent of what -was agreed
on. There is no statement that the lands bad depreciated in
value or that taxes had accumulated. Neither is it stated that
any loss bad actually accrued to the appellees by reason of the
stay of sale. So far as appears, the lands may have increased
in value to an amount larger than the accumulation of interest,
and the taxes may have been paid.
The single question,
therefore, was presented to the court, whether on the agreed
facts the county and its sureties were liable in law to the extent of their bond for the accumulation of interest or the
balance of the mortgage debt. The judgment was to the effect
that they were. In this we think there was error. Upon the
agreed facts no damages had resulted from the appeal for which
the county could in law be required to answer, and the judg.
ment should have been for the defendants.
There were other rulings presented by the bill of exceptions,
but as upon the whole case as made there can be no recovery,
we have considered it unnecessary to state them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings to be had therein not
inconsistent with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

