Oct. 1880.]

WILMOT V. MUDGE.

WILMOT V. MUDCE.
An action on a debt or claim is not barred by a composition between a debtor
and his creditors, under sect. 17 of the act of June 22, 1874, c. 390 (18 Stat.,
pt. 3, p. 183), if it would not be barred by his discharge under the bankrupt
law.
ERROR to the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mt1.. James B. Richardson for the plaintiff in error.
Ar. Noorfield ,S'torey, contra.
MR. JUSTICE IILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Mudge & Co. brought their action against Wilmot in the
Superior Court of Massachusetts, in tort, for false representations whereby the plaintiffs were induced to sell him certain
goods on credit. The damages claimed were their value. lie
denied the false representations, and also, pleaded a composition order of the District Court of the United States, and
his offer to pay the plaintiffs what was due them under the
composition.
The case was tried without a jury by the court, who found
for the plaintiffs, and gave judgment for the agreed price of
the goods.
The Supreme Court of Massachusetts affirmed the judgment
on all points. Wilmot sued out this writ.
The only question we can consider is whether the composi
tion with the order of the court thereon is a discharge of Wilmot's liability on account of the cause of action on which he
was sued in this case.
The Supreme Court of Massachusetts held that it was not
such a discharge, because the action was founded on a fraud.
Sect. 5117 of the Revised Statutes enacts that "no debt
created by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by
his defalcation'as a public officer, or while acting in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged by proceedings in bankruptcy; but the debt may be proved, and the dividend thereon
shall be a payment on account of such debt." The phraseology

WILMOT v. TIUDGE.

[Sup. Or.

of the original statute of bankruptcy of 1867 was that no such
debt "shall be discharged under this act;" and an argument
is made that while such debt might not be discharged under
the act of 1867, it might be under the composition provided
for by the act of 1874, because the latter was a different act.
Wo are of opinion that the language of the Revised Statutes
expresses the true construction of the act of 1867, namely,
that no such debt should be discharged by the proceedings
which the bankrupt law of the United States authorized. The
language adopted in the act of 1867 was appropriate, because
that was the only bankrupt act then in existence, and established a complete system in itself. When the Revised Statutes came to be enacted, many amendments had been made
to the original act, and as none of them were supposed to
affect the principle that debts founded in fraud should not
be discharged by bankrupt proceedings, it was proper to
say so.
The seventeenth section of the act of 1874, c. 390, introduced
the system of coniposition which, when the proposal of the
bankrupt to pay a certain proportion of his debts had been accepted by a majority in number and three-fourths in value of
the creditors, and confirmed by the signatures of the parties
and approved by the court, "shall be binding on all the creditors whose names and addresses, and the amounts of the debts
due to whom, are shown in the statement of the debtor produced at the meeting at which the resolution shall have been
passed, but shall not affect or prejudice the rights of any other
creditors." 18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 183. Everything was done
which this act required to bring Mudge & Co. within its provisions. Although they had received notice of the meeting
which passed the composition resolution, they did not take
part in the proceedings, nor accept the sum to which by its
terms they were entitled, though they were included in Wilmot's list of creditors.
Their counsel relies solely on the proposition, that as their
claim against him arises out of his fraudulent representations
to them in purchasing the goods, their debt is not discharged
by this composition, nor by any other proceedings in bank.
ruptcy.

Oct. 1880.]

WILMOT V. MUDGE.

To this it is answered that proceedings in composition are
not in bankruptcy, but so far distinct therefrom, that they constitute a compromise and release of the debtor by virtue of the
provision which declares them binding on both parties.
It is said to be an accord and satisfaction. But this requires
the voluntary assent of the creditor, which in this ease was not
given.
Next, it is said that the seventeenth section of the act of
1874, which provides for this composition, is not in parimateria
with the bankrupt law, and is a new and independent mode of
distributing the bankrupt's assets, and releasing him from his
debt, and is not a part of the proceedings under the bankrupt
law.
We do not understand that there is any power in the debtor
to invoke this remedy until proceedings in bankruptcy have
been commenced by him or against him under the bankrupt
law. Nor can the District Court make the necessary order establishing the composition except in such proceedings, either
voluntary or involuntary. The composition proceeding is,
therefore, a part of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and one of
the modes which the bankrupt law authorizes of releasing the
debtor and securing to his creditors an equal share of his
means.
The seventeenth section itself is one of many amending the
bankrupt law in numerous particulars, and is declared to be an
amendment of sect. 43 of the original act of 1867.
We are very clear, therefore, that the provision for composition is a proceeding in bankruptcy under the Bankrupt Act,
whether reference be bad to the language of the act of 1867 or
of the Revised Statutes, that debts created by fraud shall not be
discharged under it. See opinion of M11r. Chief Justice Waite,
l are fo1,nes & iLissbetger, 15 Blatchf. 170.
But the act of 1874, which contains the provision for composition, is later in date than the act of 1867 or the Revised
Statutes, for as to the latter it must be so held, though both
were actually passed at the same session of Congress; and if
the later act is in conflict with the older, so that they cannot
be reconciled, the last must prevail. In other words, it is a
repeal pro tanto of the first act.

WILMOT

V. MUDGE.

[Sup. or.

That this is the true view of the several provisions of the
statutes referred to is strongly urged by counsel for the plaintiff in error, on account of the positive language of the latest
enactment. "The provisions of a composition accepted by
such a resolution in pursuance of this section shall be binding
on all the creditors whose names and addresses and the amount
of the debts due to whom are shown in the statement of the
debtor produced at the meeting at which the resolution shall
have been passed."
It is conceded that the defendants in error came within the
terms of this provision, and it is insisted that they must be bound
by the composition. We admit the apparent force of the logic.
But, as we have already said, these several statutes, sections,
and provisions are to be construed as parts of one entire system
of bankrupt law. No positive enactment found in one part of
it is to be considered as repealed by another, unless it be by
express language or by necessary implication. The provision
that no debt created by a fraud shall be discharged by any
proceedings in bankruptcy is a very positive and clear statement of a principle applicable as well to such proceedings authorized after as before this special one was enacted. The
resolution of composition is a proceeding in bankruptcy. Can
it be binding on the parties within the meaning of the act, and
not discharge the claims of all who come within its terms?
If those to be affected by it are such as hold claims that may
be discharged by bankrupt proceedings, then all are bound by
it. But if there is a person who has proved his debt, and who
for the purpose of receiving a dividend declared in the usual
mode is a proper party to the general proceeding, but whose
claim is at the same time one which, though provable in bankruptcy, cannot be discharged by the bankrupt law, we do not
see why the composition may not be binding on others and not
on him. There is no injustice nor any difficulty in restraining
the language of the composition section, as regards its binding
force, to persons whose debts are capable of being discharged
by the bankrupt law.
If a certain class of debts cannot be discharged by proceedings in bankruptcy, then they cannot be discharged by this
proceeding, for it is a proceeding in bankruptcy. If all other

Oct. 1880.)

WILMOT V. MUDGE.

debts may be discharged by a composition in bankruptcy, then
the debtor and the other creditors get its benefit and are bound
by it, while the one whose debt may not be thus discharged
does not. He neither takes its benefit nor is he bound by it.
In this manner both provisions of the bankrupt law can
stand and be consistent, Thus construed there is no conflict
between them, and each has its appropriate sphere of operation
and the effect which the law-makers intended.
The rules of construing statutes in like cases with the present are so well understood as to need no citation of authorities.
They are, first, that effect shall be given to all the words of
a statute, where this is possible without a conflict; and, second,
that as regards statutes in pari materia of different dates, the
ltst shall repeal the first only when there are express terms of
repeal, or where the implication of repeal is a necessary one.
When repeal by implication is relied on it must be impossible
for both provisions under consideration to stand, because one
rnecessarily destroys the other. If both can stand by any reasonable construction, that construction must be adopted. We
think that which we have already suggested reconciles the two
provisions without doing violence to either. Numerous decisions of respectable courts are cited by counsel on each side.
Several of these are in conflict with each other. None of these
courts are of higher authority than the one which rendered the
judgment we are now reviewing, and as it concurs with our
own views, it is
Affirmed.

