Oct. 1880.]

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

Poeoek, 15 Q. B. .576; Hall v. Rupley, 10 Pa. St. 231 AIoulton
v. Tra.dk, 9 Mete. (Mass.) 577; Hoagland v. llMoore, 2 Blaefd.
(Ind.) 167; Derb v. Johnson, 21 Vt. 17.
This, in effect, disposes of the assignments of error. All of
them turn upon the construction of the contract between the
parties.
If the defendant was not bound by the contract to obtain
dhe assent of the county board to his plans before he was entit led to compensation, then all the instructions given by the
court were correct, and none of the assignments of error are
%sellfounded.
Judgment affirmed.

TILLEY v.

CouNTY

OF COOK.

1. Where there is no contract, express or implied, between the parties, usage or
custom cannot make one.
2. A county and a city within its limits proposed to erect public buildings, the
portion appropriated to the uses of each to be paid for by them respectively. They jointly offered a premium for plans. A. furnished one, and
received the promised compensation. There was no further contract between the parties. The city and county severally adopted a resolution
selecting his plan, subject to such modifications as might thereafter be
determined upon if his estimate as to the cost of construction should be
verified. He brought suit against them to recover five per cent of the estimated cost of the buildings. Held, 1. That he was not entitled to recover.
2. That evidence of the value of his services in making the estimate was
properly excluded, inasmuch as he failed to show that they had been rendered at the instance of the defendants.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r,. lileoille W. Fuller, for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. William 0. Goudy and Ar. Consider H. Willett, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought by Tilley against
the County of Cook and the City of Chicago. The declaration

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF

COOX.

[Sup. Ct,

consists of the common counts for work and labor done, goods
sold and delivered, money lent and advanced, and upon account
stated.
The following is a copy of the account sued on, which was
appended to the declaration: "The

CouNTY

OF

COOK and the C1TY

OF CHICAGO

to Tnonas

TiLunY, Dr.
"For services as architect in preparing plans, drawigs, specifications, diagrams, estimates, and details for the new court-house and city hall, and
superintendence of erecting the same, five per
cent on $2,909,629, the estimated cost of the building, the plan being that known as ' Eureka' . . $145,481 45"
The defendants pleaded the general issue.
By provision of the Constitution and laws of the State of
Illinois, the county affairs of Cook County are managed by a
board of commissioners of fifteen persons. Ill. Const. 1870,
art. 10, sect. 7. The affairs of the city are controlled by the
common council. Private Laws of Illinois, 186.3, p. 40.
The County of Cook was the owner of a block of ground in
the city of Chicago, known as the court-house square, on which
it was proposed to erect a building to be used as a city hall
and county court-house, in which the business of the city and
county might be conducted.
On July 10, the board of county commissioners, and on July
15, 1872, the common council, adopted, each for itself, the following resolution : "1Resolved, That it is the sense of the joint meeting that they
recommend to the common council of the city of Chicago and the
board of commissioners of Cook County that the city of ChLcago
and the county of Cook will authorize the building committees of
the several boards to offer a prize of five thousand dollars (5,000)
for the best plan, two thousand dollars ($2,000) for the second, and
one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the third best plan for a courthouse and city hall, to be erected jointly by the county of Cook and
the city of Chicago, upon the public square in the city of Chicago,
the said plans to be submitted to respective boards, in conjunc.
tion with the board of public works of the city of Chicago."

Oct. 1880.]

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

On Aug. 5, 1872, the common council of the city and the
board of county commissioners passed an order providing for a
joint contract between the city and county for the erection of
a building on the court-house square, and on Aug. 28, 1872, the
contract was executed. It declares that it was for the publi
convenience that the courts and the offices of the city "shoula
be located at some one convenient point and readily accessible
to each other," and provides for the erection, by the city and
county, of a public building on the court-house square, for the
use of the county and city governments respectively, and the
courts of record ; that the general exterior design of the building shall be of such uniform character and appearance as may
be agreed upon by the board of county commissioners and the
common council of the city.
The contract further provides as follows "3. That portion of the said building situate west of the north
and south centre line of said block shall be erected by the city of
Chicago at its own expense.
"4. The city of Chicago shall occupy that portion of said block
we;,t of the said centre line for a city hall and offices incidental to
the administration of the city government, and for no other purpose whatever, except as hereinbefore provided.
"5. Each of the parties will heat, light, and otherwise maintain
anl furnish its own portion of said building."
On Nov. 25, 1872, the building committees of the common
council and the county commissioners published an advertisement calling for designs for the proposed building.
The advertisement declared that, in order to secure suitable
designs, the city and county jointly offered the following
premiums: For the best design, $5,000; for the second best,
,42,000 ; and for the third best, $1,000.
It provided as follows :"Each d(,.-ign must have a device or motto marked on each drawing, and be accompanied by a sealed letter giving the name of the
author, which will be opened after the final award is made, only for
the purpose of ascertaining the names of the successful architects
and for the return of the unsuccessful drawings to their authors.
"Each compenttor will give the cubical contents of'his building
and an estimate of the cost of the same complete."

o 158

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Designs were submitted by a large number of architects, and
the building committees of the city council and the board
of county commissioners made a report awarding the prizes.
Tilley, who had adopted for his drawing the word "Eureka'
as the device or motto to distinguish it, was awarded the third
prize, of $1,000.
On Aug. 4, the county board, and on Aug. 18, 1878, the
city council, adopted the following resolution "That the report of the majority of the joint committee awarding the prizes for plans of court-house and city hall shall be con
curred in and the award confirmed, provided that nothing herein
or in said report contained shall be construed as indicating a preference for either of said plans as to which shall be finally adopted,
from which the said building shall be erected."
Tilley was paid the thousand dollars awarded to him as a
prize.
Afterwards, on August 25, the county commissioners, and
on Oct. 10, 1878, the city council, adopted the following resolution :-

"That the plan known as Eureka, or number 5 (five) in the collection, submitted for court-house and city hall, be, and is hereby,
selected and adopted as the plan after which to build such courthouse and city hall (the board of commissioners of Cook County
concurring), subject to such change and modifications as may hereafter be determined upon by the common council of the city of
Chicago and the county board, provided the estimate of the architect who presented said plan as to the cost of construction of the
building shall be verified."
Upon the trial of the case, the testimony tending to establish
the facts above recited having been given in evidence by the
plaintiff, he was sworn as a witness in his own behalf, and testified that he was an architect of fifteen years' standing, that
he had made the design designated by the word "Eureka,"
and that, after the passage by the city council and board of
county commissioners of the resolution last above mentioned,
he had verified the cost of the construction of the proposed
building in the way customary and usual with architects, which
was made up at the rate of thirty-five cents per cubic foot for

Oct. 1880.]

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

the building, and was indorsed by fourteen or fifteen archi.
tects.
The plaintiff produced before the jury all his plans for which
the prize had been awarded him. He offered to prove their
value, the time employed and the expense incurred in the
preparation of them. The court excluded the evidence so
offercd.
He further offered evidence to establish that by the usage
and custom of architects, in the absence of a special contract,
the superintendence of the construction of a building belonged
to the architect whose plans were adopted. This was also
excluded.
He also offered evidence to prove that by the usage and custorn of architects, where prizes for plans were offered, the
plans of the successful competitors belonged to them, and, if
subequently adopted as the plans to build by, were always
paid for in addition to the prize itself. To this the defendants
objected, and the court sustained the objection.
He also offered evidence to establish the value of the services rendered in verifying the cost of the proposed building
according to the "Eureka" plans; to which the defendants
objected, and the court sustained the objection.
This was all the evidence given or offered to be given in the
cause.
The plaintiff then rested his case; whereupon the court
directed the jury to find for the defendants.
The jury returned a verdict for the defendants, and judgment was entered thereon.
To reverse this judgment this writ of error was brought.
It will be observed that no evidence was introduced or offered
to show that the plans of the plaintiff were used by the defendants, or either of them, or that the building for which they
were used was ever erected.
It is clear that if the plaintiff has any right of action it must
arise on the resolutions adopted by the board of county commissioners, Aug. 25, and the city council, Oct. 10, 1873. All
that had taken place before those dates was the making of a
con.oact between the city and the county, by which they agreed
to jjin in the erection of a public building in the court-house

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

[Sup. Ct.

square, each party to build and pay for its own part of the
structure; an offer by the city and county of three prizes for
the best plans; an award of the prizes by which the third prize,
of $1,000, was given to the plaintiff in error, with the distinct
notice that "the award should not be considered as indicating a preference for either of said plans as to which should
be finally adopted from which the said building should be
erected;" and the payment to and the receipt by the plaintiff
of the prize awarded him.
By the payment to the plaintiff in error of the prize, the defendants discharged every obligation due from them to him
arising out of the preparation of plans for the proposed building. Upon that payment being made, no contract whatever,
either express or implied, existed between the plaintiff and
the defendants.
If, therefore, the plaintiff had any right of action against
defendants, it must have arisen by reason of the adoption of the
resolution just mentioned, and what was done by plaintiff after
its adoption.
The resolution was the voluntary act of the city council and
county commissioners. It was not a proposition, but simply
the expression of a purpose to build their structure after the
plans of the plaintiff, subject to such changes and modifications
as might thereafter be determined upon by the common council
and the county board. The resolution was not adopted at his
instance or suggestion. Suppose that the day after its adoption
the resolution had been reconsidered and rescinded, would the
defendants nevertheless have been liable for the value of the
plans and for five per cent on the estimated cost of the building for superintendence, amounting in the aggregate to near
$146,000 ?
Suppose a private person should announce his purpose to
build a house after a design which he had seen in an architect's office, but before he begins the execution of his purpose
changes his mind, never calls for or uses the plans, or even
builds the house, is he liable to the architect for the value of
the plans and for superintendence ? In such a case there certainly is no contract between him and the architect upon which
a recovery can be based.

Oct. 1880.]

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

The claim of the plaintiff is that by the adoption of the resolution by the city council and the county board, without any
act done or assent on his part, they were bound to go on and
erect the building on his plans and expend $2,909,000, its
estimated cost.
The resolution did not, bind the plaintiff to furnish his plans
and superintend the building. There was no mutuality, and,
threfore, no consideration, - both of which are essential to a
contract. Notwithstanding the resolution, the plaintiff might
have said, I will not furnish my plans, and I will not superintend the building, and the defendants would have had no
elaim on him.
If one does not accede to a promise as made, the other party
is not bound by it. Tuttle v. Looe, 7 Johns. (N.Y.) 469. When
A. signs a writing by which he declares he will sell to B. his
h,,use at a certain price, this is a mere proposition and not a
contract. Tooker v. IltrodS, 12 id. 189.
In
,1Fod
v. Edwe,'d.s (19 id. 205), where A. wrote that he
had agreed to a substitute for an existing agreement which he
would execute, Spencer, C. J., said the proposition of A. to
e'xecute the new agreement was not binding on him, as well
on the ground of want of consideration as want of mutuality,
since the plaintiffs on their part were not bound to execute the
agreement.
In the case of Ifiag. tc v. P1els (Peak. N. P. 0. 299), the
plaintiff proved that the defendant consented. to be bound by
an award to be made on a submission by other underwriters on
the same policy, but the witness proved no agreement on the
part of the plaintiff to be bound by the award. Lord Kenyon
held that there was no mutuality, and therefore the defendant's
agreement was a. mere nudum j:, turn.
An offer of a bargain by one person to another imposes
no obligation upon the former, unless it is accepted by the
latter upon the terms on which it was made. Any qfialification of or departure from them invalidates the offer,
unless the same be agreed to by the party who made it.
Elisa-? v. Henshau,, 4 Wheat. 225. See also Webb v. Alton
Marine " Fire Insurance Co., 8 Ill. 225; Ataelay v. Harvey,
90 id. 525.
voL. XII1.

11

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

(Sup. Ct.

In this case, there being only an expression of purpose by
one party to erect a building according to plans antecedently
made by another, and no obligation entered into by the other
party, and no plans used or building erected, there was no contract between the parties, either express or implied.
If we are correct in this conclusion, then all the evidence
offered by the plaintiff to prove the value of the plans, and
the time employed, and the expenses incurred in their preparation, was irrelevant and immaterial.
The only purpose for which such evidence could be admitted
would be to prove the damage sustained by the plaintiff by the
breach of his alleged contract with the defendants. But if he
bad no contract, express or implied, be was entitled to no damage, and could show none.
It is complained that the evidence offered to prove the custom of architects was excluded. We think it was rightly
excluded.
Proof of usage can only be received to show the intention or
understanding of the parties in the absence of a special agreement, or to explain the terms of a written contract. Hutchinson v. Tatham, Law Rep. 8 C. P. 482; Field v. Lelean, 30
L. J. Ex. 168; Baywater v. Richardson, 1 Ad. & E. 508; .Robinson v. United States, 13 Wall. 363.
In all cases where evidence of usage is received, the rule
must be taken with this qualification, that the evidence be not
repugnant to or inconsistent with the contract. Holding v.
Pigott, 7 Bing. 465, 474; Clarke v. Joystone, 13 Mee. & W.
752; Yeats v. Pim, Holt, N. P. 95; Trueman v. Loder, 11
Ad. & E. 589; JBliven v. ew _England Screw Co., 23 How.
420.
The inference from these principles is inevitable, that, nmless some contract is shown, evidence of usage or custom is
immaterial.
The plaintiff says he was ready to prove a custom of architects, that when prizes were offered for plans of a buildiug, the.
successful competitor remained the owner of his own designs,
and if they were adopted he was entitled to compensation
therefor in addition to the prize, and that, by the same custom,
the adoption of his plans entitled him to superintend the erec

Oct. 1880.]

TILLEY V. COUNTY OF COOK.

tion of the building, and to the usual remuneration therefor.
He claims, therefore, that in view of this custom, the adoption
of his plans by the passage of the resolution referred to by
the city and county boards, amounted to a contract, on the
part of the defendants, to pay for the plans and employ him
to superintend the erection of the building, and pay him
rt erefor.
The offer of the plaintiff to prove certain facts having been
rejected, he must be presumed to be able to prove what he
offered to prove. We must, therefore, assume that the custom
which he offered to prove did, in fact, exist. But what was
that custom ? Clearly, that if the building was erected according to the successful plans, the architect was entitled to pay
therefor. That was such an acceptance and adoption of his
plans as would give him the right to compensation therefor,
awl the right to superintend the erection of the building and
receive the usual remuneration. The custom certainly did not
bhind the party who offered prizes for plans, after having paid
the prizes, to pay also for plans that he never used, and for
superintendence of a building that he never erected, merely
because he had selected a particular plan and announced his
purpose to build in accordance with it. If such were the custom and usage of architects in Chicago, it was an absurd and
unreasonable custom, and, therefore, not binding. United States
v. Bwhan an, 8 How. 83.
If the plaintiff had offered to show that after the passage of
the resolution by which his plan was accepted, the defendants
had erected their building according to his plans, then the
evidence of the custom would have been pertinent. But ho
made no such offer, and it is to be presumed no such fact
existed. The evidence of this custom was, therefore, properly
excluded.
The plaintiff complains that he was not allowed to prove the
value of his services in verifying the cost of the proposed
building according to his plans.
We think the court was right in excluding this evidence.
There was no proof nor any offer of proof to show that the services of the plaintiff were rendered at the instance or request
of the defendants or either of them. From all that appears, the

164

COUNTY OF CHicoT v. LEwis.

;-up. CL

services were voluntarily rendered by the defendant, and no
use whatever was made of the results of his investigation. The
law, therefore, does not imply a contract to pay for them, and
proof of their value was quite immaterial.
The evidence rejected was properly excluded on another
ground. The defendants were charged in the declaration with
a joint liability, but there was no privity between them, either
by law or contract. The evidence offered was to show a joint
liability. So far as it went it failed to do this; on the con
trary, it was made to appear that each of the defendants was
building its own part of the structure at its own expense, and
for its own use. After the award and payment of the prizes
they assumed no joint liability, as the evidence admitted clearly
showed. And the evidence offered did not tend to establish
a joint liability. It did not, therefore, support the case made
in the declaration, and was properly excluded from the jury.
As the plaintiff asked no leave to amend, this ruling of the
court is not a ground of error.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

COUNTY OF CHICOT v. LEwis.
An act of the legislature of Arkansas, passed in 1868, authorizes any county to
subscribe to the stock of any railroad company in that State, provided the
subscription shall not exceed $100,000, and the consent of the inhabitants of
the county thereto shall first be obtained at an election held for that purpose.
At an election held under that act, the voters of a county voted to subscribe
$100,000 to the stock of company A. and P100,000 to the stock of company
B. Held, 1. That the act does not restrict the county to a single subscription. 2. That the power to subscribe is general, limited only by tho subscription of $100,00' to the stock of any one company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for

Eastern District of Arkansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. U. M. Rosefor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Eben W. Kimball, contra.

the

