BOOGHER V. INSURANCE CO.

P.up. Ct.

authorized to charge that, "if the jury found as a fact that
such tax had been levied and collected from plaintiff, not only
upon the proceeds of tobacco sold in bond, but upon the
amount of stamps required to be affixed upon such tobacco
before it could be delivered from the bonded warehouse," that
to the extent of that sum plaintiff was entitled to recover.
The right to recover did not depend upon the amount of
stamps required to enable the tobacco to be taken out of the
warehouse, or that might have been affixed long after the sale,
but upon whether said stamps were affixed to the tobacco at
the time of the sale, and, therefore, entered into the purchase
price.
Judgment reversed, with directions to grant a new trial.

BOoGuER v. INSURANCE COMPANY.
1 Quaere, Does the act of June 1, 1872, c. 255 (17 Stat. 195; Rev. Stat., sect.
914), authorize the review here of an action at law, wherein, pursuant to
the practice of the courts of the State in which the Circuit Court was held,
the facts were found by a referee.
2. Sect. 700 of the Revised Statutes is the only enactment providing for the
review here of a civil cause where an issue of fact has been tried in the
Circuit Court otherwise than by a jury.
3. The Practice Act of Missouri declares that an issue of fact in any action may,
upon the written consent of the parties, be referred. Where, therefore, the
record states that, after a case was called for trial and a jury sworn to try
the issue joined, a juror was, by "consent of parties," withdrawn and the
case referred to A., this court must assume that such consent, as well as
that to waive a jury, was in writing.
4. In order to give this court jurisdiction to determine whether the facts found
by the referee, and confirmed by the court below, are sufficient to support
tie judgment, they must be treated as the finding of the court. Otherwise, there has not been such a judicial determination of them as to make
them conclusive here.
5. The ruling that where any portion of the charge to the jury is correct, an
exception to the entire charge will not be sustained, reaffirmed, and held to
be applicable to a general exception taken to the report of a referee.
6. A bond executed Dec. 22, 1871, to an insurance company by B., its agent, and
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties, contains a provision
that it shall continue and remain in force so long as he "shall be the agent
of said company, whether under his existing appointment or any future

()ct. 1880.]

BoOGHER v. INSURANCE CO.

,ne " and until all liabilities on his part, by reason of such agency, "shall
have been discharged." Dec. 23, 1873, a new contract entered into between
thencompany and B., whereby the latter was appointed agent, changes the
rate of his coumi ions and contains the following clause: "This contract
abrogates all former ones, so far as new business is concerned." Held, that
the bond of Dec. 22, 1671, was not abrogated thereby.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This was an action by the New York Life Insurance Company against Davis PZ. Boogher and his sureties, upon a bond
executed by them Dec. 22, 1871, and conditioned as follows: -

"Whereas the above bounden Davis R. Boogher has been appointed by said company as their agent for the purpose of procuring applications for life insurance, and performing such other duties
in connection therewith as may be intrusted to him: Now, if the
said Davis R. Boogher Nhall pay or hand over all moneys belonging
to said company which shall at any time be received by him, or for
which he ,hall be liable, whether the same shall be or shall have
ien received by him personally and solely, or by, through, or togelther with any co-partner, co-agent, sub-agent, or other person,
incltiding all moneys so received prior to the date of this instrunient (it* any such there be), as well as that received thereafter, as
als, all money-- which he now owes, or hereafter may owe, said company, either on account of advances to him or otherwise, and shall
fitltfiully discharge his duties as said agent, then this obligation
shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and effect. It being
miderstood and agreed that this obligation shall not be annulled or
revoked without the consent of the above-named company, but
,,hall be and remain in force as long as said Davis R. Boogher shall
.ontinue to be the agent of said company, whether under his existing appointinent or any fiuture one, and whether such present or
ilatur agency be sole, or whether said Davis R. Boogher be joined
with any other person or persons, and until all transactions under
such agency shall have been finally adjusted and settled, and all
liabilities of said Davis R. Boogher by reason thereof shall have
been discharged."
Boogher was at that time employed by the company as soliciting agent under a contract of appointment dated Oct. 27,
1871, which took effect November 1 of that year. The contract, after minutely prescribing his duties and the rate of

BOOGHER V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

commission to be allowed upon premiums on policies of insurance effected by or through him, provides for his discharge as
agent and the forfeiture of his right to commissions on renewals in the event of any dereliction of duty. A new contract
of appointment, made Dec. 23, 1873, differs from the preceding
one as to the rate of commissions allowed, and contains the
following '14. The commissions as above subject to the stipulations
and limitations herein contained, shall continue to be paid to the
said agent, or in case of his death, to his personal representatives,
fol the term of ten years from the date of each policy, provided he
shall continue to act exclusively for said company for term of five
years; but in case said agent shall be discontinued for cause by said
company, then all commissions which would accrue to him under
this or any former contract shall be forfeited to said company unconditionally."
"15. This contract abrogates all former ones, so far as new business is concerned."
The breach of the condition of the bond alleged was, that
Boogher misappropriated funds of the company amounting to
$1,400.
The defendants traversed the breach, and claimed as a special
defence, that as the acts complained of related to new business
transacted after the date of the second appointment, the bond
was abrogated, and that they were therefore released from liability thereunder.
Boogher filed a separate answer by way of counter-claim for
$6,000 damages, alleging that the company had broken the
contract of Dec. 23, 1873, by refusing to permit him to collect
the premiums on insurances effected by him, and by refusing to
perform the contract on its part, or to pay him according to its
terms.
The company denied any breach on its part of the contract of
employment, and alleged that Boogher, prior to the institution
of the suit, had been discharged for cause, and that, therefore,
all his rights to commissions were unconditionally forfeited.
By the act to regulate practice in civil cases in Missouri "all
or any of the issues of fact in the action may be referred, upon
the written consent of the parties." Wag. Stat. 1041, sect.

O0t. 1,"0.]

BoOGHER V. INSURANCE

CO.

17; Gen. Stat. 169, sect. 17. "All testimony taken before
referees shall be reduced to writing, and if either party shall
except to the competency of a witness, or the admission or exclusion of evidence, or any other matter to which exceptions
may be taken, the referees, if required, shall state the particulars of the exceptions in their report." Wag. Stat. 148, sect.
;73. "The referees shall, in all cases, report . . . showing
the . . . proceedings had, and return the same, together with
the testimony taken, to the court." Id., sect. 40. "All exceptions to the report . . shall be in writing, and filed within
four days, in terni, after the report is filed. . . ." Id., sect. 41.
If exceptions are allowed, the matter may again be referred,
with instructions, if necessary ; but if the report is confirmed
boy the court, judgment shall be rendered thereon in the same
manner and with like effect as upon a special verdict." Id.,
sect. 42.
In this case the record shows the following entry: "Now
corne the parties by their attorneys, . . . and this cause being
regularly called for trial, and both parties being ready, it is
ordered that a jury come; and thereupon comes said jury, to
wit, . . . twelve good and lawful men, duly sworn and impan
elled well and truly to try the issues joined herein; and now,
by consent of parties, it is ordered that a juror be withdrawn,
and said juror being withdrawn, it is ordered that this cause
be referred to Amos MI.Thayer for final report, subject, however, to exceptions." Under this order the referee tried the
cause and made his report, stating the issues tried and his findings of fact and law thereon. The testimony was returned
with the report, and certain exceptions taken before him were
noted in the return. The defendants appeared in court and
objected to the confirmation of the report, filing twenty-two
iseparate exceptions, most of which were to the effect that the
findlings of fact were not sustained by the evidence. The others
were as follows: -4. The conclusions of said referee in said report are not sustained by his findings of fact therein. 5. Said
report is erroneous and not in accordance with law. . . . 8. The
referee erred in finding that the special plea of release in the
answers herein had not been sustained. . . . 15. The referee
erred in admitting the accounts mentioned in the report as

BO0GHER V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Gt,

evidence against the defendants. 16. The referee erred in
admitting incompetent and irrelevant testimony in favor of
plaintiff. . . . 19. The referee erred in admitting in evidence
a note of $1,000, dated Oct. 8, 1873."
Upon the hearing by the court the evidence was read together with the report, and, after argument, the exceptions
were overruled as a whole. To this the defendants excepted
generally. A new trial was then moved for, and overruled.
To this another exception was noted. The court made the
following order and finding: " Now come the said parties by their attorneys, . . .and
the exceptions to the referee's report herein being submitted
to the court, and the same having been duly considered, it is
ordered that said exceptions be overruled, and that the report
of the referee be and the same is hereby confirmed and approved, and thereupon this cause is submitted to the court
upon the pleadings and the report of said referee, on consideration whereof the court finds that the defendant, Davis R.
Boogher, is indebted to the plaintiff by reason of the breaches
of the writing obligatory sued upon in the sum of twelve hundred and seventeen dollars and fifty-two cents."
Judgment was thereupon rendered against the defendants
for the penalty of the bond sued on, to be discharged upon the
payment of said sum and costs of suit.
A bill of exceptions was then taken, which sets forth the report of the referee, the testimony before him with the objections
noted, the exceptions to the report, the exception to the order
confirming it, the motion for a new trial, the order overruling
it, and the exception thereto.
The defendants sued out this writ, and assign for error:
1. That the referee erred in finding in favor of the defendant
in error, on the counter-claim of Boogher, and the court erred
in confirming the finding. 2. The undisputed facts in the
case, established by the testimony of the defendant in error,
fail to support the finding of the referee, that Boogher was
dis,;harged for good cause, because of an ' unauthorized detentin of plaintiff's funds,' and the court erred in confirming
that finding. 3. The pleadings of the defendant in error are
uut supported by any evidence; and, 4. The special plea of

Oct. 1880.]

BOOGHER 1,. INSURANCE CO.

discharge was fully sustained, as appears by the pleadings and
findings of the referee, and the court erred in not rendering
judgment for plaintiffs in error thereon."
3 r. Shepard Barclay and 31r. Linden Kent for the plaintiffs
in error.
11. Prederick . *Jnuson, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is, to say the least, doubtful whether cases tried in the
circuit courts by a referee, in States where such a practice
exists, can be reviewed here. While, since the act of 1872,
c. 255 (17 Stat. 196, now sect. 914, Rev. Stat.), the practice,
pleadings, and forms and modes of proceedings in civil causes,
other than equity and admiralty causes, in the circuit and district courts, must conform, as near as may be, to the practice,
pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record of the State within
which such circuit or district courts are held, the review of a
case in this court is regulated by the acts of Congress and not
by the laws of the States. This was decided in United States
v. King (7 How. 833), where the precise question arose under
the act of 1824, c. 181, regulating the practice of the courts of
the United States in the district of Louisiana. 4 Stat. 62. The
Seventh Amendment to the Constitution provides that "no fact
tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of
the United States, than according to the rules of the common
law." The Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, sect. 12 (1 Stat. 80),
provided that the trial of issues of fact in the circuit courts
should in all suits, except those of equity and of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, be by jury; but it has always been held
that if the parties waived a jury a judgment after trial by the
court would not be erroneous. KYearney v. Case, 12 Wall. 275.
Such a judgment, however, would not be reviewable here,
because, as was said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in Campbell
v. Boyreau (21 How. 223), "if, by agreement of parties, the
questions of fact in dispute are submitted for decision to the
judge upon the evidence, he does not exercise judicial authority
in deciding, but acts rather in the character of an arbitra-

BOOGHER V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ot.

tor. . . .And as this court cannot regard facts found by the
judge as having been judicially determined in the court below,
there are no facts before us upon which questions of law may
legally and judicially have arisen in the inferior court, and no
questions, therefore, open to our revision as an appellate tribunal." To get -rid of this difficulty and give parties the right
of review here, if they submitted their issues to a trial by the
court, the act of 1865, c. 86, sect. 4 (13 Stat. 501 ; Rev. Stat.,
sects. 649, 700), was passed. In this way it was provided that
issues of fact in civil cases in the Circuit Court might be tried
and determined by the court, without the intervention of a jury,
" whenever the parties, or their attorneys of record, file with
the clerk a stipulation in writing waiving a jury. The finding
of the court upon the facts . . . shall have the same effect as
the verdict of a jury." Provision was also made for presenting
for review here by bill of exceptions the rulings of the court
in the progress of the trial, and, when the finding was special,
for extending the review to the determination of the sufficiency
of the facts found to support the judgment.
The doubt we have is whether the act of 1872 enlarged the
existing modes of subjecting cases to review here. There is
no express provision of that kind, and on its face the act is
confined to the practice, pleadings, and modes of proceedings in
the circuit and district courts. Any allusion to a review here
seems to have been studiously avoided. The act of 1865 was
not repealed. On the contrary, that act, as well as the one
of 1872, was brought into the Revised Statutes, and it is now,
as sect. 700, the only statute which provides for a review
here of cases where an issue of fact in a civil cause has been
tried in the Circuit Court otherwise than by a jury.
This objection was not raised in the argument, and its final
determination may perhaps with propriety be postponed, as, if
the trial before the referee is treated as a trial by the court,
we think the judgment must be affirmed. In Kearneey v. Case
(supra), it was held that unless there was a written stipulation
of the waiver of a jury filed with the clerk, there could be no
review here of a case tried by the court. Such a stipulation
in writing is a prerequisite to our right to re-examine. We
said, however, in that case (p. 283), if it affirmatively appeared

Oct. 1880.]

BOOGHER V. INSURANCE Co.

in any part of the record proper that such a writing was made
and filed by the parties, we might take jurisdiction, even
though the stipulation itself, or a copy of it, should not be sent
up with the transcript.
It nowhere expressly appears in this case that a stipulation
was filed, but inasmuch as an action of this kind could not,
under the Practice Act of Missouri, be referred without the
written consent of the parties, and this was referred by consent, we think we must assume that a consent was given in
such form as to authorize what was done under it. The withdrawal of a juror after the trial was begun and the consent to
a reference necessarily implied a waiver of a jury; and as this
consent to be available must have been in writing, it follows
that the waiver which flowed from the consent was also in
writing. We think, therefore, it sufficiently appears that the
stipulation which the act of Congress requires was entered
into.
We have often held that the act of 1865 (sects. 649, 700,
Rev. Stat.) does not permit us to consider the effect of the evidence in the case, but only to determine whether the facts
found on the trial below are sufficient to support the judgment,
and to pass on the rulings of the court in the progress of the
trial presented by a bill of exceptions. For all the purposes
of our review the facts as found and stated by the court below
are conclusive. The Abbot. fotd, 98 U. S. 440, and the cases
there cited. Neither can we consider this case unless the facts
found by the referee, when confirmed by the court, are treated
as the finding of the court. In that way alone can it with propriety be said that the facts have been determined judicially
by the court, so as to be made the foundation of a review her,
of the questions of law properly raised on them in the record.
Upon the facts as found and reported there can be no doubt
of the correctness of the judgment. Indeed, no complaint is
made, by an assignment of error or otherwise, on that account.
This brings us to a consideration of the bill of exceptions, and
the only exceptions which we there find to the rulings of the
court are: 1, To the overruling of the objections to the referee's
report; and, 2, to the order overruling the motion for a new
trial. We have many times decided that the rulings of tho
VoL. XIII.

7

BO0GHER V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

circuit courts on motions for a new trial are not reviewal to
here on writ of error. Railway Company v. Twomhly, 100 U. S.
78. The whole case, therefore, turns on the exception to the
overruling of the objections to the report. This exception is
a general one, to the single order overruling the twenty-two
specific objections as a whole. We have uniformly held that
"if a series of propositions is embodied in instructions (to the
jury), and the instructions are excepted to in a mass, if any one
of the propositions is correct the exception must be overruled."
Johnston v. Jones, 1 Black, 209; Rogers v. The Marshal,1 Wall.
644 ; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 id. 328 ; Lincoln v. Claflin, 7 id. 132;
Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46. The same rule should be applied to cases of this kind. Here are, so to speak, a series of
propositions in respect to the report of the referee. They were
overruled and excepted to in a mass. If one of the propositions
was correct, therefore, the exception will not be good. The
party should, by his exception, direct the attention of the
court to the specific proposition or propositions on which he
relies, and separate it or them from the rest.
Among the objections to the report included in the general
exception are many relating to the sufficiency of the evidence
to support the findings. These cannot be re-examined here.
But if we consider the action of the court on the objections to
the sufficiency of the evidence as not included in the general
exception, the difficulty is not removed, because the five remaining objections embrace separate matters. Some of them
are confessedly not well taken, and have not been mentioned
here, either in the argument or assignment of errors. Only one
is relied on, and that the eighth, which is to the effect that the
referee erred in finding that the special plea of release had not
been sustained. This, taken in connection with the pleadings,
raises the question whether the legal effect of the second agreement between the parties, which was in writing and set forth
in the complaint, was to cancel and discharge the bond sued
on. We have no hesitation in saying that it did not. The
bond was not one of the agreements which that instrument
abrogated.
This disposes of the case, and leads to an affirmance of the
judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

