Oc¢t. 1880.]

SWAN

v. ARTHuR.

SwAN v. ARTHuR.
FIErn N v. ARTHUR.
FLEGENHEI

v.

ARTHUR.

Laces, cigar ribbons, galloons, and braids made substantially of silk, although
cotton forms a part thereof, were subject to a duty of sixty per cent ad valerein, under sect. 8 of the act of June 30, 184, c. 171. 13 Stat. 181.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. S ephten G. Clarke for the plaintiffs in error.
AIr. AssisLtant Attorney-General Smith, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE WiTE, delivered the opinion of the

court.
Sect. 8 of the tariff act of June 30, 1864, c. 171 (13 Stat.
20), provides for the levy and collection of duties on imports,
as follows: -

",On all dress and piece silks, ribbons, and silk velvets, or velvets
of which silk is the component material of chief value, sixty per
centum ad valorem. On silk vestings, pongees, shawls, scarfs,
mantillas, pelerines, handkerchiefs, veils, laces, shirts, drawers, bonnets, hats, caps, turbans, chemisettes, hose, mitts, aprons, stockings,
gloves, suspenders, watch chains, webbing, braids, fringes, galloons,
tassels, cords, and trimmings, sixty per centum ad valorem.
"On all manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component
material of chief value, not otherwise provided for, fifty per centum
a, valorem."

In one of the cases the importation was of laces, in another
cigar ribbons, and in the other galloons and braids. The articles in each case were made of silk and cotton, but the silk
preponderated so largely that they were substantially silk.
The collector charged them with duties at the rate of sixty per
cent ad valorem, as silk laces, ribbons, galloons, and braids,
while the importers claimed they were dutiable at fifty per
cent only, as manufactures of which silk was the component
material of chief value, not otherwise provided for. These

SWAN v. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct.

suits were brought to recover back what had been paid in excess of fifty per cent. In the cases for the laces, galloons,
and braids the evidence was positive and uncontradicted to the
effect that they were substantially made of silk, and there was
no claim that they were commercially known otherwise than as
silk goods. Upon these facts the court directed a verdict in
favor of the defendant. In the case for the ribbons, the jury
was instrudted that if the goods were made substantially of silk,
and were not commercially regarded as different from silk ribbons, a verdict must also be returned for the defendant. In
the last case there was some evidence which, it was claimed,
showed that the particular kind of ribbon imported bad, by
usage, been taken out of the commercial designation of silk
ribbons. These writs of error have been brought to reverse
the judgments which followed from these rulings.
We think the court below was right in the view it took of
the law. While tariff acts are generally to be construed according to the commercial understanding of the terms employed,
language will be presumed to have the same meaning in commerce that it has in ordinary use, unless the contrary is shown.
Outside of commerce there can hardly be a doubt that laces,
ribbons, galloons, and braids made substantially of silk would
be denominated silk goods. Until, therefore, it was shown that
they were regarded differently by dealers, it was right to class
them as dutiable at sixty per cent. The burden of bringing
them under the reduced rate was thrown on the importer. So
far as the laces, galloons, and braids are concerned, there was
no attempt to do so, and in respect to the ribbons the attempt
that was made failed before the jury. We cannot believe that
what are bought and sold in the market as dress or piece silks
are not in commercial designation silks because they are to
some extent adulterated with a cheaper fibre, if the silk so fai
predominates over the inferior material that it can be said they
are made substantially of silk. If that is true of piece silks it
certainly must be of laces, ribbons, galloons, and braids. So, in
general, it may be said, as we think, that all goods made substantially of silk will be treated as silk commercially, unless it
directly appears that commerce has given another name to the
admixture.
Judgments afflrmed

