Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN

v. A-ni s Co.

the general affairs of a political subdivision of the State. As
was very properly said in People v. Trustees of Schools, supra.
" their creation is purely to aid in the great scheme of accowplishing universal education." They are pre-eminently
public-school corporations, and in the absence of legislative
powei under the Constitution can no more tax the people to
build railroads than an ordinary school district or an incorpo.
iated academy can use its funds in that way. A railroad may
help the people in a school district, but it can hardly be said
that the construction of a railroad is a school purpose. The
existence of railroads may and undoubtedly will make schools
more necessary, and school property more valuable; but the
construction of railroads is not necessary either to the establish.
ment or maintenance of schools. Railroads are the effect rather
than the cause of schools.
Congressional townships under the name of the "trustees of
schools" were incorporated for " school purposes" only. So
the act of incorporation in terms declares. Taxation, by the
corporate authorities, therefore on persons and property within
the jurisdiction of such a township, to build railroads, is not taxation for a corporate purpose, and the decree below, which followed the decisions of the State court, was consequently right.
-Decreeaffirmed

Osc=AN

v. ARmS Com~PA-Y.

1. Where it is shown by the opening statement of counsel for the plaintiff that
the contract on which the suit is brought is void, as being either in violation'of law or against public policy, the court may direct the jury to find
a verdict for the defendant.
2. A court is, in the due administration of justice, bound to refuse its aid to
enforcc such a contract, although its invalidity be not specially pleaded.
3. A c nsul.general of a foreign government, residing in this country, entered
into a contract, whereby, in consideration of a stipulated percentage, he
agreed to use his influence in favor of a manufacturing company here with
an agcnt of that government sent to examine and report in regard to the
purchase of arms for it. By exerting his influence, sales of arms were
made by the company to that government, and he brought suit to recover
the ptrcentagt. Hdd, that, in a court of the United States, there can be
no recovery on thy contract.

262

OSCANYAN v. ARms Co.

[Sup. Ct

EP.OR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. Theodore . Dwight and Hir. Richard O' Gorman for the
plaintiff in error.
Hr. Ednund Randolph Bobinson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FrE.i delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover the sum of 8136,000, alleged to
be due to the plaintiff upon a contract with the defendant, as
commissions on the sales of fire-arms to the Turkish government, effected through his influence. The defendant pleads
the general issue. At the time the transactions occurred, out
of which this action has arisen, the plaintiff was consul-general
of the Ottoman government at the port of New York. The
defendant is a corporation, created under the laws of Connecticut. The action was originally commenced in the Supreme
Court of New York, and on motion of the defendant, was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States. When it
was called for trial, and the jury was impanelled, one of the
plaintiff's counsel, as preliminary to the introduction of testimony, stated to the court and jury the issues in the case, and
the facts which they proposed to prove. From such statement
it appeared that the sales for which commissions were claimed
by the plaintiff were made whilst he was an officer of the Turkish government, and through the influence which he exerted
upon its agent sent to this country to examine and report in
regard to the purchase of arms. The particulars of the services
rendered will be more fully mentioned hereafter. It is sufficient now to say that the defendant, considering that the facts
which the plaintiff proposed to prove showed that the contract
was void as being corrupt in itself and prohibited by morality
and public policy, upon which no recovery could be had, moved
the court to direct the jury to render a verdict in its favor.
The court thereupon inquired of the plaintiff's counsel if they
claimed or admitted that the statements which bad been made
were true, to which they replied in the affirmative. Argument
was then had upon the motion, after which the court directed
the jury to find a verdict for the defendant, which was accord

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN

v. ARMS Co.

ingly done. Judgment being entered upon it, the case was
brought to this court for review. The reversal of the judgment
is sought for alleged errors of the court below in three particulars: 1st, In directing a verdict for the defendant upon the opening statement of the plaintiff's counsel;
2d, In holding that the question of the illegality of the contract could be considered in the case, the same not having been
specially pleaded; and,
3d, In adjudging that the contract set forth in the opening
statement was illegal and void.
Each of these grounds will be carefully examined.
1. Several reasons are presented against the power of the
court to direct a verdict upon the statement of the facts which
the plaintiff proposed to prove, that might be more properly
urged against its exercise in particular cases. The power of
the court to act in the disposition of a trial upon facts conceded
by counsel is as plain as its power to act upon the evidence
produced. The question in either case must be whether the
facts upon which it is called to instruct the jury be clearly
established. If a doubt exists as to the statement of counsel,
the court will withhold its directions, as where the evidence is
conflicting, and leave the matter to the determination of the
jury.
In the trial of a cause the admissions of counsel, as to matters to be proved, are constantly received and acted upon.
They may dispense with proof of facts for which witnesses
would otherwise be called. They may limit the demand made
or the set-off claimed. Indeed, any fact, bearing upon the
issues involved, admitted by counsel, may be the ground of the
court's procedure equally as if established by the clearest proof.
And if in the progress of a trial, either by such admission or
proof, a fact is developed which must necessarily put an end to
the action. the court may, upon its own motion, or that of counsel, act upon it and close the case. If, on a trial for a homicide,
to take an illustration suggested by counsel, it should appear
from the opening statement that the accused had been pardoned for the offence charged, it would be a waste of time to
listen tij the evidence of his original criminality; for if estab.

OSCANYAN v. ARmiS Co.

(Sup. Ct.

lished he would still be entitled to his discharge by force of the
pardon. So in a civil action, if it should appear from the opening statement that it is brought to obtain compensation for acts
which the law denounces as corrupt and immoral, or declares
to be criminal, such as attempts to bribe a public officer, or to
evade the revenue laws, or to embezzle the public funds, the
court would not hesitate to close the case without delay. Of
course, in all such proceedings nothing should be taken, without
full consideration, against the party making the statement or
admission. He should be allowed to explain and qualify it, so
far as the truth will permit; but if, with such explanation and
qualification, it should clearly appear that there could be no
recovery, the court should not hesitate to so declare and give
such direction as will dispose of the action.
Here there were no unguarded expressions used, nor any
ambiguous statements made. The opening counsel was fully
apprised of all the facts out of which his client's claim originated, and seldom was a case opened with greater fulness of
detail. He dwelt upon and reiterated the statement of the fact
which constituted the ground of the court's action in directing
a verdict for the defendant, namely, that it was Oscanyan's
influence alone which controlled the agent of the Turkish government; and for the use of that influence the defendant had
agreed to give the compensation demanded,- that is to say,
that whilst an officer of the Turkish government the plaintiff
had stipulated for a commission on contracts obtained from it
through his personal influence over its agent. Had the case
been pending in a court of some of the States, or in an English
court, a nonsuit would have been ordered, if the facts stated
had been deemed fatal to the action. Involuntary nonsuits
not being allowed in the Federal courts, the course adopted was
the proper proceeding. The difference in the two modes is
rather a matter of form than of substance, except in the case of
a nonsuit a new action may be brought, whereas in the case of
a verdict the action is ended, unless a new trial be granted
either upon motion or upon appeal.
The language of this court in numerous cases is in accordance with these views, though used with reference to directing
a verdict after evideiie is repeived. But, as already stated,

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN v. ARmS Co.

it cannot make any difference as to the power of the court,
whether the facts be developed by the evidence or be admitted
by counsel. In 3Ierchants' Bankc v. State Bank it appeared,
that, upon the evidence on behalf of the plaintiff being closed
the defendant's counsel moved the court below to instruct the
jury that it was not sufficient to enable them to find a verdict
for the plaintiff. The instruction was given, and the jury found
for the defendant. The case being brought here on writ of
error, this court said, speaking through Mr. Justice Swayne:
"According to the settled practice in the courts of the United
States, it was proper to give the instruction, if it were clear the
plaintiff could not recover. It would have been idle to proceed
further when such must be the inevitable result. The practice
is a wise one; it saves time and costs; it gives the certainty of
applied science to the results of judicial investigation; it draws
clearly the line which separates the provinces of the judge and
july, and fixes where it belongs the responsibility which should
be assumed by the court." 10 Wall. 604, 637.
In Pleasants v. Pant, this court, speaking of a case where
the evidence was insufficient to justify a verdict, and where it
would be the duty of the court below to set it aside and grant
a new trial, said, speaking through Mr. Justice Miller: " Must
the court go through the idle ceremony in such a case of submitting to the jury the testimony on which plaintiff relies,
when it is clear to the judicial mind that if the jury should find
a verdict in favor of plaintiff, that verdict would be set aside
and a new trial had? Such a proposition is absurd, and accordingly we hold the true principle to be that if the court is
satisfied that, conceding all the inferences which the jury could
justifiably draw from the testimony, the evidence is insufficient
to warrant a verdict for the plaintiff, the court should say so to
the jury." 22 Wall. 116, 122.
In Baili'oad Coimupany v. Praloff it was claimed by the company that the court below erred in not giving a peremptory
instruction for a verdict in its favor. But this court, whilst
holding the position untenable, said, speaking through Mr.
Justice Harlan: "Had there been no serious controversy
about the facts, and had the law, upon the undisputed evi
dence, precluded any recovery whatever against the com

OSOANYAN

v. A

s Co.

[
[Sup.
Ot.

pany, such an instruction -would have been proper." IOC
U. S. 24, 26.
Indeed, there can be, at this day, no serious doubt that the
court may at any time direct a verdict when the facts are undisputed, and that the jury should follow such direction. The
maxim that questions of fact are to be submitted to the jury,
and not to be determined by the court, is not violated by this
proceeding any more than by a nonsuit in a State court where
the plaintiff fails to make out his case. The intervention of
the jury is required only where some question of fact is controverted.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the first position of the
plaintiff is not well taken.
The suggestion in the argument, that the counsel who made
the opening had been called into the case only two days before
the trial, and was not, therefore, fully prepared to open it, does
not merit consideration. In the first place, the record does not
show that any application was made to the court for a postponement of the trial on that ground ."in the second place, two
days ought to have been ample time for the counsel to acquaint
himself with the essential facts of the case; and in the third
place, no new fact is even now mentioned that would have materially changed his statement.
2. The position of the plaintiff that the illegality of the
contract in suit cannot be noticed, because not affirmatively
pleaded, does not strike us as having much weight. We should
hardly deem it worthy of serious consideration had it not been
earnestly pressed upon our attention by learned counsel. The
theory upon which the action proceeds is that the plaintiff has
a contract, valid in law, for certain services. Whatever shows
the invalidity of the contract, shows that in fact no such contract as alleged ever existed. The general denial under the
Code of Procedure of New York, or the general issue at common law, is, therefore, sustained by proof of the invalidity of
the transaction which is designated in the complaint or declaration as a contract.
Whilst, however, at the common law, under the general issue
in assumpsit, it was always admissible to give in evidence any
matter which showed that the plaintiff never had a valid cause

Oct. 1880.]

0SCANYAN

v. A RIs Co.

of action, in practice many other matters were allowed under
that plea, such as went to the discharge of the original cause of
action, and showed that none subsisted at the commencement
of the suit,- such as payment, release, accord and satisfaction,
and a former recovery, and excuses for non-performance of the
contract; and also that it had become impossible or illegal to
perform it. 1 Chitty, Pleading, 493; Craig v. Mhe State of
IlRbsou,'i, 4 Pet. 410-426; Edson v. Weston, 7 Cow. (N. Y.)
:78; Young v. Rininell, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 478. It followed that
there were many surprises at the trial by defences which the
plaintiff was not prepared to meet. The English courts, under
the authority of an act of Parliament passed in the reign of
William IV., adopted rules which, to some extent, corrected
the evils arising from this practice of allowing defences under
the general issue which did not go directly to the validity of the
original cause of action. And the Code of Procedure of New
York did away entirely with the practice in that State, and required parties relying upon anything which, admitting the original existence of the cause of action, went to show its discharge,
such as a release or payment, or other matter, - to plead it
specially, in order that the plaintiff might be apprised of the
grounds of defence to the action. We do not understand that
the code makes any other change in the matters admissible
under the general denial.
But if we are mistaken in this view of the system of procedure adopted in New York, and of the defences admissible according to it under a general denial in an action upon a contract,
our conclusion would not be changed in the present case. Here
the action is upon a contract which, according to the view of
the judge who tried the case, was a corrupt one, forbidden by
morality and public policy. We shall hereafter examine into
the correctness of this view. Assuming for the present that it
was a sound one, the objection to a recovery could not be obviated or waived by any system of pleading, or even by the express stipulation of the parties. It was one which the court
itself was bound to raise in the interest of the due administration of justice. The court will not listen to claims founded
upon services rendered in violation of common decency, public
morality, or the law. History furnishes instances of robbery

OSCANYAN

v. ARms Co.

[Sup. Ct

arson, and other crimes committed for hire. If, after receiving
a pardon, or suffering the punishment imposed upon him, the
culprit should sue the instigator of the crime for the promised
reward, - if we may suppose that audacity could go so far, the court would not hesitate a moment in dismissing his case
and sending him from its presence, whatever might be the character of the defence. It would not be restrained by defects of
pleading, nor, indeed, could it be by the defendant's waiver, if
we may suppose that in such a matter it would be offered.
What is so obvious in a case of such aggravated criminality as
the one supposed, is equally true in all cases where the services
for which compensation is claimed are forbidden by law, or condemned by public decency or morality.
This doctrine was applied in Cloppell v. Hall, reported in
7th Wallace. In that case Coppell was the acting British
consul in New Orleans, and during the late civil war entered
into a contract with one Hall, by which the latter agreed
to furnish him with sundry bales of cotton, which he was to
cause to be protected from seizure by our forces and transported to New Orleans, and there disposed of to the best
advantage, he to receive one-third of the profits for his compensation. For breach of this contract he sued Hall, who set up
that the contract was against public policy and void, and also a
reconventional demand or counterclaim for damages for a breach
of the contract by Coppell. On the trial, the court below,
among other things, instructed the jury that if the contract was
illegal, the illegality had been waived by the reconventional demand of the defendant; but this court said, speaking through
Mr. Justice Swayne, that the instruction "was founded upon a
misconception of the law. In such cases," he added, "there
can be no waiver. The defence is allowed, not for the sake of
the defendant, but of the law itself. The principle is indispensable to the purity of its administration. It will not enforce
what it has forbidden and denounced. The maxim, ex dolo
malo non oritur actlo, is limited by no such qualification. The
proposition to the contrary strikes us as hardly worthy of serious refutation. Whenever the illegality appears, whether the
evidence comes from one side or the other, the disclosure is
fatal to the case. No consent of the defendant can neutralize

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN v. ApRMs

Co.

its effect. A stipulation in the most solemn form to waive the
objection would be tainted with the vice of the original contract, and void for the same reasons. Wherever the contamination reaches it destroys. The principle to be extracted from
all the cases is, that the law will not lend its support to a claim
founded upon its violation." See also ifolman v. Johnson,
I Cowp. 341.
Approving of the doctrine so well expressed in this citation,
our conclusion is, that the second position of the plaintiff is not
well taken.
3. We are brought, then, to the consideration of the contract
upon which the action is founded. This is given in the opening statement of the plaintiff, with full particulars of the services rendered. We need only repeat its essential portions. As
already mentioned, he was, at the time, consul-general of the
Ottoman government at the port of New York. For many
years previously to 1869 he had resided in the United States,
and was familiar with our language. In that year the Turkish
government sent Rustem Bey, an officer of high rank in its
service, to the United States to examine and report in regard
to the purchase of arms and machinery for its use. He was a
friend of the plaintiff ; had known him many years, and their
relations were intimate. On his arrival in this country he
made the plaintiff's office his headquarters, and there all his interviews and negotiations with the manufacturers of arms were
had, and, as he did not speak English, these interviews and
negotiations were conducted through the plaintiff. The manufacturers soon became aware of the relation of the men to each
other, and accordingly opened a correspondence with the plaintiff, or waited upon him, to secure his influence with the Bey
in presenting their arms. Among others, Winchester, the
president of the Winchester Repeating Arms Company, of Connecticut, the defendant here, sought an introduction to him,
and the scene is thus narrated: "Said Mr. Winchester to Oscanyan, 'Will you be kind enough to call the attention of
Rustem Bey to my repeating rifle?' ' Well,' said Oscanyan,
Mr. Winchester, I am receiving commissions from all parties
for that favor, and I expect commissions for my services, and
that is one of the ways by which I make my livelihood; if

OSCANYAN V. ARIS CO.

[Sup. Ot.

you can compensate me, if you can remunerate me by giving
me commissions, I will use my influence for you and do all I
can for you.' ' Very well,' said Mr. Winchester, ' that is all
right. You shall have whatever commissions we deem proper,
and we will talk the matter over and agree upon that.' Accordingly Oscanyan showed the Winchester repeating rifle to
Rustem Bey," who was not pleased with it, but through Oscanyan's influence was induced to send samples of it to Constantinople.
In January, 1870, the Bey received instructions from the
Turkish minister of ordnance to examine and report upon the
Spencer gun. These instructions were given because the Turkish government had heard that the United States had a large
number of these guns on hand which they desired to dispose of.
They immediately became known to Oscanyan, and as he had
agreed with Winchester to press the claims of the Winchester
gun, he at once proceeded to use his influence with the Bey to
condemn the Spencer gun. The opening statement says that
"he raised all manner of objections that he could, and he
finally did succeed in inducing" the Bey to put it aside. Then
he brought out a Winchester gun, a sample of which he always
kept in his office for the very purpose, whenever opportunity
offered, of presenting its claims. It appears, however, that the
Bey did not, from the first, like that gun, and for that reason,
continues the opening statement, " Oscanyan had to use all his
ingenuity and skill and perseverance and patience" to get him
to look at it at all; but finally he succeeded in getting him to
recommend the purchase of a thousand of them for the use of
the imperial body-guard. This, said the plaintiff's counsel, was
done by the Bey "in order to please Oscanyan," knowing the
fact that he had an arrangement with the defendant for a commission on the sale. Accordingly the Bey reported to the
Turkish government, condemning the Spencer gun and recommending the purchase of the Winchester repeating arms. Soon
afterwards Oscanyan informed Winchester of what he had done,
when the latter remarked that he would have allowed Oscanyan
the same commissions on the Spencer guns as on the others.
Oscanyan replied that the United States had a large number of
them on band, and if the Bey had reported favorably on that

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN

V. ARMS

0.

gun, the Turkish government would have ordered them directly
from the United States government. It was that reason, said
Oscanyan, which " weighed on my mind" to persuade the Bey
to condemn the gun.
In February, 1870, the Bey received fresh instructions to
inquire into and report upon the price of twenty thousand
repeating arms, and to send fresh samples. Oscanyan soon
learned of this and immediately telegraphed for Winchester,
who arrived at his office on the following day, when Oscanyan
informed him that he had got an order for twenty thousand
guns, or an inquiry for the price of twenty thousand, and
thought he could get an order for one hundred thousand. He
then called Winchester's attention to an objection raised by the
Bey relating to the spring of the magazine of the rifle, and advised him to meet it; and this advice was acted upon. Soon
afterwards Winchester, as president of the company, put in
writing his agreement with Oscanyan, to give ten per cent
upon all sales of arms of the company made to or by the latter
to the Ottoman government, provided that such sales were made
at prices and upon terms having his approval. This was dated
on the 4th of March, 1870. On the following day a box of
fresh samples was forwarded to the Turkish minister of ordnance at Constantinople, and, after a delay of some months for
the receipt of the cartridges, a trial of them was had with a
favorable result. Written contracts between the defendant and
the Turkish government followed; one made Nov. 9, 1870, for
arms to the amount of $520,000, and another made Aug. 19,
1871, for arms to the amount of $840,000.
The plaintiff claims that these contracts were procured
through the recommendations which by his influence were
made by Rustem Bey. His counsel stated this in his opening,
and deplared that no other person had possessed any influence
in effecting the sales. It is for the use of this influence that
the contract in suit was made and compensation is now demanded. The question then arises, Is this contract one which
the court will enforce? We have no hesitation in answering
it in the negative. The contract was a corrupt one,- corrupt
in its origin and corrupting in its tendencies. The services
stipulated and rendered were prohibited b) considerations of

OSOANYAN v. ARmS Co.

[Sup. Ct.

morality and policy which should prevail at all times and in
all countries, and without which fidelity to public trusts would
be a matter of bargain and sale, and not of duty.
In the first place, the plaintiff was, at the time, an officer ot
the Turkish government. As its consul-general at the port of
New York, he was invested with important functions and entitled to many privileges by the law of nations. It is not necessary here to state with any particularity the functions and
privileges attached to the consular office. These will be found
in any of the approved treatises on international law.
It is enough to observe that a consul is an officer commissioned by his government for the protection of its interests and
those of its citizens or subjects; and whilst he is sometimes
allowed, in Christian countries, to engage in commercial pursuits, he is so far its public agent and commercial representative
that he is precluded from undertaking any affairs or assuming
any position in conflict with its interests or its policy. By
soine governments he is invested - in the absence of a minister
or ambassador to represent them - with diplomatic powers,
and, as between their citizens or subjects, may also exercise
judicial functions. By all governments his representative character is recognized, and for that reason certain exemptions and
privileges are granted to him. In the Constitution of the United
States, consuls are classed with ministers and ambassadors in
the enumeration of parties whose cases are subject to the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, and in the treaty with
the Ottoman Empire authority is given to it to appoint consuls
in the United States.
It was stated in the argument that the office held by the
plaintiff was an honorary one, created especially as an evidence
of the high regard entertained for him by the government of
his country, as if the objection to his claim of a right to exact
a commission on contracts with it, made through his influence,
was obviated by the fact that he received no salary for the discharge of his official duties. Assuming the office to have been
purely an honorary one, we do not perceive how this circumstance could in any respect alter his relations to that government. If conferred as a mark of honor, the fact would seem to
impose upon him increased obligation to avoid any departure

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN v. ARms

Co.

from the line of duty. The members of Parliament in England receive no pay for their services, and the expenses of many
official positions, in this and other countries, exceed the corn
pensation allowed to the incumbents; but this circumstance
would not excuse much less justify them in sacrificing the
public interests for individual gains or profits. All such positions are trusts to be exercised from considerations of duty
and for the public good. Whenever other considerations are
allowed to intervene and control their exercise, the trust is
perverted and the community suffers. The plaintiff, it is true,
was not the purchasing agent of the Turkish government, but
he was its honored officer, upon whose fidelity to its interests it
had a right to rely in any advice which he might give to its
agent. But so far from justifying this confidence, the only
motive upon which he appears to have acted was the hope of
gain to himself by high commissions on the sales effected. As
justly remarked by the judge who tried the case, the benefits
which would inure to the government of which he was the
commercial representative, do not seem to have entered into
the considerations which influenced his mind.
But, independently of the official relation of the plaintiff to
his government, the personal influence which he stipulated to
exert upon another officer of that government was not the subject of bargain and sale. Personal influence to be exercised
over an officer of government in the procurement of contracts,
as justly observed by counsel, is not a vendible article in our
system of laws and morals, and the courts of the United States
will not lend their aid to the vendor to collect the price of the
article. Numerous adjudications to this effect are found in the
State and Federal courts. This is true when the vendor holds
no official relations with the government, though the turpitude
of the transaction becomes more glaring when he is also its
officer.
In Tool ConIemny v. .Norris, reported in the 2d of Wallace,
this court held that an agreement for compensation to procure
a contract with the government to furnish it with supplies was
against public policy and could not be enforced. That was a
case where the compensation was made contingent upon success in procuring the contract, and, as we shall hereafter show,
VOL. XIII.

18

OSCANYAN V. ARMS Co.

[Sup. Or.

should be distinguished from agreements for services in presenting information on the subject for the consideration of the
government. It was a case where nothing was to be paid if no
contract was obtained, and if obtained the compensation was
to be proportionate to its extent. In deciding the case the
court said: " Considerations as to the most efficient and economical mode of meeting the public wants should alone control
in this respect the action of every department of government.
No other consideration can lawfully enter into the transaction, so
far as the government is concerned. Such is the rule of public
policy, and whatever tends to introduce any other elements into
the transaction is against public policy. That agreements like
the one under consideration have this tendency is manifest.
They tend to introduce personal solicitation and personal influence as elements in the procurement of contracts, and thus
directly lead to inefficiency in the public service and to unnecessary expenditures of the public funds. . . . All agreements for pecuniary considerations to control the business
operations of the government or the regular administration of
justice, or the appointments to public offices, or the ordinary
course of legislation, are void as against public policy, without
reference to the question whether improper means are contemplated or used in their execution. The law looks to the general
tendency of such agreements, and it closes the door to temptation by refusing them recognition in any of the courts of the
country."
In this case the doctrine of the court in Marshall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., reported in 16th Howard, was
emphasized. There compensation was claimed by the plaintiff
for services rendered in procuring the passage of a law by the
legislature of Virginia, upon a contract that if the law was not
passed, or, if passed, was not accepted and adopted or used by
the stockholders, no compensation should be allowed. It was
held that the contract was void as against public policy. The
court, speaking through Mr. Justice Grier, said: "Bribes in
the shape of high contingent compensation must necessarily
lead to the use of improper means and the exercise of undue
influence. Their necessary consequence is the demoralization
of the agent who covenants for them; he is soon brought to

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN

v. ARmS

Co.

believe that any means which will produce so beneficial a
result to himself are 'proper means;' and that a share of these
profits may have the same effect of quickening the perceptions
and warming the zeal of influential or ' careless' members in
iavtr of his bill." See also TFood v. Mc6ann, 6 Dana (Ky.),
1;;6; J1ill v. Jldl/, 40 N. Y. 543.
In Triht v. C/idd, reported in 21st of Wallace, the distinction
is drawn between the use of personal influence to secure legisJation, and legitimate professional services in making the legislature acquainted with the merits of the measures desired.
Whilst the former is condemned, the latter are, within certain limits, regarded as appropriate subjects for compensation.
There the defendant had employed the plaintiff to get a bill
passed by Congress for an appropriation to pay a claim against
the United States. It was considered by the court to have
been a contract for lobby services, and adjudged void as against
public policy. Other similar cases were mentioned by the
court, and, after observing that in all of them the contract was
held to be against public policy and void, it added, speaking
through Mr. Justice Swayne: "We entertain no doubt that
in such cases, as under all other circumstances, an agreement,
express or implied, for purely professional services is valid.
Within this category are included drafting the petition to set
forth the claim, attending to the taking of testimony, collecting
fats, preparing arguments, and submitting them, orally or in
writing, to a committee or other proper authority, and other
services of like character. All these things are intended to
reach only the reason of those sought to be influenced. They
rest on the same principle of ethics as professional services
rendered in a court of justice, and are no more exceptionable.
But such services are separated by a broad line of demarcation
from personal solicitation, and the other means and appliances
which the correspondence shows were resorted to in this case."
So, too, with reference to furnishing the government with
arms or supplies of any kind. It is legitimate to lay before
the officers authorized to contract, all such information as may
apprise them of the character and value of the articles offered,
and enable them to act for the best interests of the country.
And for such services compensation ma- be had as for similar

276

OSCANYAN v. ARDis Co.

[Sup. Ct.

services with private parties, either upon a quantum rneruit, or,
where a sale is effected, by the ordinary brokerage commission.
And here it may be observed, in answer to some authorities
cited, that the percentage allowed by established custom of
commission merchants and brokers, though dependent upon
sales made, is not regarded as contingent compensation in the
obnoxious sense of that term, which has been so often the subject of animadversion by this court, as suggesting the use of
sinister or corrupt means for accomplishing a desired end.
They are the rates established by merchants for legitimate
services in the regular course of business. But where, instead
of placing before the officers of the government the information which should properly guide their judgments, personal
influence is the means used to secure the sales, and is allowed
to prevail, the public good is lost sight of, unnecessary expenditures are incurred, and, generally, defective supplies are obtained, producing inefficiency in the public service.
In feguire v. Corwine, decided at the last term, the doctrine
of the above cases was approved. There an agreement to pay
the plaintiff -in consideration of his appointment as government counsel - one-half the fees he might recover, was adjudged invalid. Transactions of the kind were declared to be
"an unmixed evil;" and the court said that whether forbidden
by statute or condemned by public policy, "no legal right can
spring from such a source." 101 U. S. 108, 111.
In the present case there is no feature that relieves the contract which the plaintiff seeks to enforce from the condemnation pronounced in the several cases cited. It is the naked
case of one officer of a government, to secure its purchase of
arms, selling his influence with another officer in consideration
of a commissidam on the amount of the purchase. The courts
of the United States will not lend their aid to collect compensation for services of this nature; nor does it make any difference
that the Turkish government did not object to the plaintiff's
taking commission on such contracts, which counsel contended
we must consider as admitted together with the rest of the
opening statement. We may doubt whether we are compelled
to take as correct, with the facts mentioned touching the contract in court, his statement of the law or customs of other

Oct. 1880.]

OSCANYAN

v. ARMs Co.

countries. But admitting this to be otherwise, and that the
TurkilI government was willing that its officers should be
allowed to take commissions on contracts obtained for it by
their influence, that is no reason why the courts of the United
States should enforce them. Contracts permissible by other
countries are not enforceable in our courts, if they contravene
our laws, our morality, or our policy. The contract in suit
was imiade in this country, and its validity must be determined
by our laws. But had it been made in Turkey, and were it
valid there, it would meet with the same reprobation when
brought before our courts for enforcement.
The general rule undoubtedly is that the validity of a contract is to be decided by the law of the place where it is made,
unless it is to be performed in another country; but to this, as
to all general rules, there are exceptions, and among these
Story mentions contracts made in a foreign country to promote
or reward the commission of crime, to corrupt or evade the
due administration of justice, to cheat public agents, or to
affect the public rights, and other contracts which in their nature are founded in moral turpitude, and are inconsistent with
the good order and solid interest of society. "All such contracts," he adds, "even although they might be held valid in
a country where they are made, would be held void elsewhere,
or at least ought to be, if the dictates of Christian morality,
or even of natural justice, are allowed to have their due force
and influence in the administration of international jurisprudence." Story, Conflict of Laws, sect. 258.
Among such obnoxious contracts must be included all such
as have for their object the control of public agents by considerations conflicting with their duty and fidelity to their
principals. A contract to bribe or corruptly i ifluence officers
of a foreign government will not be enforced in the courts of
this country, - not from any consideration of the interests of
that government or any regard for its policy, but from the inlitr'ent viciousness of the transaction, its repugnance to our
niorality, and the pernicious effect which its enforcement by
our courts would have upon our people. Hope v. Hope, 8 De
G., M. & G. 731 ; Watson v. Murray, 23 N. J. Eq. 257.
In any view of the contract here, whether it would be valid

2T8

BONDURANT, TuTuIx, v. WATSON.

[Sup. Ct.

or invalid according to Turkish law and customs, it is intrinsically so vicious in its character and tendency, and so repugnant to all our notions of right and morality, that it can have
no countenance in the courts of the United States.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the third position of the
plaintiff is not well taken.

It follows that the judgment of the court below must be
affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

BON-DURA-NT, TUTRix, v. WATSo1.
The only paper purporting to be the writ of error in this case is in the name
and bears the teste, of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
and is signed by the clerk and sealed with the seal of that court. Held, that

the suit must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

The writ of error in this case is as follows:
"

-

TED STATES OF A~mnICA,

"State of Louisiana,ss :
The Hon. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of
Louis'a, to the Clerk of the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana, greeting:
"Because in the record and proceedings, as also in the rendition of
the judgment of a plea, which is in our said Supreme Court, before
us, between Frank Watson, plaintiff, and Mrs. Ella F. Bondurant,
tutrix, &c., defendant, No. 6564 on the docket of this court, it is
claimed by the said defendant that, being a citizen of the State of
Mississippi, and the said Watson being a citizen of Louisiana, and
in the said cause the rights, titles, and privileges of said defendant,
Mrs. Bondurant, tutrix, &c., under the statutes and under the Constitution of the United States, are by her claimed, and that the
decision and judgment of this honorable Supreme Court of Louisiana is against the said titles, rights, and privileges of said de
fendant, Mrs. Bondurant, specially set up under the laws and.
the Constitution of the United States, and because the said Mrs.
S3ondurant has filed her petition herein for a writ of error to the

