452

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

particulars for the purpose of showing that in view of
its statements the Government would be "unable to make
a case." The court granted the motion to quash, and the
Government brought this appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act. 18 U. S. C. 682. Defendants' motion to dismiss
the appeal was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
The District Judge rendered no opinion, but certified
that his "decision and order quashing the indictment
herein were not based in any respect upon the invalidity
or construction of section 215 of the Criminal Code upon
which the indictment in said cause is founded."
We find no basis for the contention that defendants'
motion to quash was in substance a "special plea in bar"
within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act. See
United States v. Storrs, 272 U. S. 652, 654; United States
v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, 147. The motion and the
affidavit in its support challenged the sufficiency of the
indictment in the light of the bill of particulars. As it
does not appear that the decision of the District Judge
was based upon the construction or invalidity of the statute upon which the indictment is founded, and as it may
well be that the decision was based upon the construction
of the indictment and its insufficiency as a pleading, this
Court is without jurisdiction of the appeal. United States
v. Carter, 231 U. S. 492, 493, 494; ,United States v. Moist,
231 U. S. 701, 702; United States v. Colgate & Co., 250
U. S. 300, 301, 302; United States v. Hastings, ante, p. 188.
Dismissed.
CORPORATION COMMISSION OF OKLAHOMA ET
AL. V. CARY, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 124. Argued December 13, 1935.-Decided December 23, 1935.

1. The Act of May 14, 1934, restricting the jurisdiction of the District Court over suits to restrain the enforcement of orders of state

i-CORPORATION COMM'N v. CARY.
452

453

Argument for Appellants.

administrative boards or commissions affecting unconstitutionally
the rates chargeable by public utilities, is by its terms inapplicable
where the existence of an effective judicial remedy in the state
courts is uncertain. P. 457.
2. In granting a temporary injunction restraining enforcement of
gas rates prescribed by a commission in Oklahoma which were
alleged to be confiscatory' the District Court rightfully concluded
that, in view of the conflicting decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State, the right to a judicial review of the order in the state
courts was seriously uncertain. P. 458.
3. Upon appeal from such an interlocutory decree, review by this
Court is confined to the questions whether the District Court had
jurisdiction and whether it abused its discretion. Id.
4. Adjudication of these questions cannot be influenced by a decision
of the state court made after the District Court had acquired
jurisdiction and entered the interlocutory decree. Id.
9 F. Supp. 709, affirmed.
APPEAL

from an interlocutory decree of the three judge

District Court restraining the enforcement of an administrative order prescribing gas rates.
Mr. Holmes Baldridge for appellants.
A plain, speedy and efficient remedy at law in the
state courts is available. The Supreme Court of Oklahoma reviews judicially such orders as are here involved,
and therefore the Act of May 14, 1934, depriving the
lower federal courts of jurisdiction is applicable.
A plain, speedy and efficient remedy in equity is available. The State District Courts of Oklahoma have
equity power judicially to review orders of the Corporation Commission.
An adequate equitable remedy is available, and therefore due process of law requirements are met, even though
review by the State Supreme Court be legislative rather
than judicial in character.
The phrase "in equity" is sufficiently broad to include
legislative review. Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co.,
261 U. S. 428; Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286
U. S. 461.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellee.

296 U.S.

Legislative review by the State Supreme Court does
not prevent judicial review by the Supreme Court of
the United States of the legislative order of the Supreme
Court. Washington ex rel. Oregon R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510; Sterling Refining Co. v. Walker, 165
Okla. 45; Oklahoma Cotton Ginners' Assn. v. State, 51 P.
(2d) 327.
This Court has, by necessary implication, held that
it has power to review judicially an order of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, acting legislatively in a public utility rate proceeding. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co.
v. State, 258 U. S. 234.
A broad interpretation of congressional language will
always be made in order to effectuate the congressional
purpose. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S.
290; Louisville & N. Ry. Co. v. Finn, 235 U. S. 601; Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Louisiana Pub. Serv. Comm'n,
260 U. S. 212; Georgia Continental Tel. Co. v. Georgia
Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 8 F. Supp. 434.
Messrs. Streeter B. Flynn and Robert M. Rainey for
appellee.
This question whether the State Supreme Court acted
in a judicial or legislative capacity in affirming the gas
rate order involved herein was not then doubtful. Theretofore the State Supreme Court had repeatedly and consistently held that it acted legislatively in reviewing such
orders; and when occasion required it had substituted rate
for those established by the Commission.
The Supreme Court of the State actually established
rates pursuant to the legislative power vested in it under
ยง 23, Art. IX of the state constitution.
This Court, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit, and the District Courts of the
United States in Oklahoma, have consistently recognized
the question as settled. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v.

CORPORATION COMM'N v. CARY.
452

Argument for Appellee.

Russell, 261 U. S. 290; Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v.
Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, 388; Oklahoma Gas
& Electric Co. v. Wilson & Co., 54 F. (2d) 596, 598; Frost
v. CorporationComm'n, 26 F. (2d) 508, 516, reversed on
other grounds, 278 U. S. 515; Oklahoma Gas & Electric
Co. v. Corporation Comm'n, 1 F. Supp. 966, 967; Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 6 F.
Supp. 893, 894, reversed on other grounds, 292 U. S. 386.
In view of many cases there can be no question but
that the Supreme Court of the State, in affirming the
order complained of herein, acted legislatively.
In Oklahoma Cotton Ginners Assn. v. State, 51 P. (2d)
327, the Supreme Court of the State held that its review
of orders similar to the one involved herein was judicial.
It recognized, however, in the opinion, that it had been
reviewing similar orders legislatively in the past, but said
that its right to exercise such legislative jurisdiction either
had not been challenged, or was due to the fact that the
parties had stipulated it might exercise such jurisdiction.
It will be observed that appellants in their briefs are
unable to refer to any case wherein the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma has even intimated that the law was unsettled in regard to the nature of its review of gas rate
orders, except the recent case of Oklahoma Cotton Ginners Assn. v. State, supra.
Under ยง 22, Art. IX, of the state constitution, the supreme court was expressly prohibited from permitting a
party to introduce evidence. When a state constitution
expressly forbids a court, under any circumstances, to
permit the introduction of evidence, we submit a review
cannot be judicial. While the Supreme Court of Oklahoma may say that its review is judicial, "we must not
be misled by name but look to the substance and intent
of the proceeding." Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson
Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellee.

296 U.S.

In the event a reduction in rates is ordered and the
utility prosecutes an appeal to the State Supreme Court,
asserting in that court that the reduced rates deprive it of
its property without due process of law, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment, it cannot under any circumstances introduce in that court evidence in support of
such claim. This fact we suggest prevents the appeal
from being judicial. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon
Borough, 253 U. S. 287, 289; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S.
22, 26; Denver Stock Yard Co. v. United States, 57 F.
(2d) 735, 739; American Comm. Co. v. United States, 11
F. Supp. 965, 969. Cf. Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v.
Corporation Comm'n, 1 F. Supp. 966.
Appellants again urge, as they did in the lower court,
that if the Supreme Court of the State affirms a rate order of the Commission, it acts judicially, while. if it reverses the order its action is legislative. The cases of
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210, 226, 227,
229, 230, and McAlester Gas & Coke Co. v. Corporation
Comm'n, 101 Okla. 268, 270, effectively answer the
argument.
When this suit was filed, the decree entered, and this
appeal taken, no remedy existed at law or in equity in the
courts of the State.
Appellee's right to assert his constitutional objections
to the Commission's order accrued when his petition for
rehearing was denied by the State Supreme Court in
June, 1934. This right still existed when the decree herein
was entered in February, 1935, and "whatever may be the
prospective effect" of the decision in Oklahoma Cotton
Ginners Assn. v. State,'174 Okla. 243; 51 P. (2d) 327,
"it cannot be given a retroactive effect in respect of the
judgment of the Federal District Court so as to 'nake
that erroneous which was not so when the judgment of
that court was given,' " (Concordia Ins. Co. v. School
District, 282 U. S. 545, 553-554) or to take away the

CORPORATION COMM'N v. CARY.
452

Opinion of the Court.

right, which he had when this suit was filed, to present
his federal question to the United States Court.
PER CURIAM.

This suit was brought in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Oklahoma to restrain
the enforcement of an order of the Corporation Commission of that State reducing gas rates. Plaintiff, trustee
of the properties of the Consolidated Gas Service Company, alleged that the order was confiscatory and violated
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States. Application for
an interlocutory injunction was brought before the District Court composed of three judges. 28 U. S. C. 380.
Defendants, the Corporation Commission and its members, moved to dismiss the complaint upon the ground
that the court was without jurisdiction, by reason of the
terms of the Act of Congress of May 14, 1934 (48 Stat.
775) which provide that no District Court shall have jurisdiction to restrain the enforcement of an order of an
administrative board or commission of a State-"where jurisdiction is based solely upon the ground of
diversity of citizenship, or the repugnance of such order to
the Constitution .of the United States, where such order
(1) affects rates chargeable by a public utility, (2) does
not interfere with interstate commerce, and (3) has been
made after reasonable notice and hearing, and where a
plain, speedy, and efficient remedy may be had at law
or in equity in the courts of such State."
Plaintiff contended that the constitution and laws of
Oklahoma did not afford an opportunity for judicial review in the courts of the State of orders affecting rates
for the transportation and sale of gas. The *District Court
considered the provision of the Constitution of Oklahoma
creating the Corporation Commission and providing foc
review of its orders (Const. Okla., Art. IX, ยง 20, 23, 35),

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

the state legislation with respect to appeals from orders
affecting gas rates (Laws of 1913, chap. 93, ยง 5), and the
pertinent decisions of the Supreme Court of the State.
The District Court found that it had been repeatedly held
by the state court that the reviewing power conferred
upon it by the provision of the state constitution was
legislative in character (compare Oklahoma Natural Gas
Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290, 291) ; and upon the question
whether any opportunity was afforded in the courts of
the State for a judicial review of an order of the Commission, the District Court found serious uncertainty because of "diametrically opposed decisions" of the state
court. And as it did not appear that "a plain, speedy,
and efficient remedy" could be had" at law or in equity in
the courts of such State," the District Court took jurisdiction and granted an injunction pending a hearing upon
the merits. 9 F. Supp. 709.
We find no error in that action. An examination of the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma confirms
the conclusion reached by the court below as to the uncertainty with which it was confronted and the consequent lack of the effective judicial remedy in the state
courts which was contemplated by the Act of May 14,
1934. The question presented, on this appeal from the
interlocutory order is whether the District Court had
jurisdiction, and, if so, whether it abused its discretion
in issuing the injunction. Alabama v. United States, 279
U. S. 229, 231; National Fire Ins. Co. v. Thompson, 281
U. S. 331, 338; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 278 U. S. 322, 326, 327; Baldwin v. G. A. F.
Seelig, Inc., 293 U. S. 522. Appellants' counsel invoke
the decision of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in Oklahoma Cotton Ginners' Assn. v. State, 174 Okla. 243, but
it is unnecessary to analyze that decision or to attempt
to determine its import in relation to subsequent litigation, as the decision was rendered after this suit was
brought and the interlocutory injunction had been

RADIO CORP. v. RAYTHEON CO.
452

Opinion of the Court.

granted. The jurisdiction of the District Court had
already attached and there is no ground for concluding
that the granting of the injunction was an improvident
exercise of judicial discretion.
The decree is
Affirmed.
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA v. RAYTHEON MANUFACTURING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 127.

Argued December 11, 1935.-Decided December 23, 1935.

In an action at law for damages, the issue whether a release relied
on by the defendant and attacked by the plaintiff is void at law,
cannot be transferred on motion of the defendant and over the
plaintiff's objection for decision as an equitable issue. P. 462.
76 F. (2d) 943, affirmed.

CERTIORARI* to review the reversal of a decree sustaining a release set up as a defense in an action for triple
damages under the Sherman Act.
Messrs. John W. Davis and Richard Wait argued the
cause and Mr. Davis, with Messrs. John L. Hall, Manton
Davis, and Claude R. Branch, filed a brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question is whether in the circumstances here exhibited the validity of a release pleaded by a defendant as
a bar to a cause of action at law is triable in equity.
Plaintiff, respondent in this court, is a Massachusetts
corporation, once known as Raytheon Manufacturing
Company, now known as Raytheon, Inc. It sues for the
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

