GRAHAM v. WHITE-PHILLIPS CO.
Syllabus.

10

period of time," and the further observation that "from
theoretical considerations of an astronomical character"
there should be a "a "periodic variation in the rise of
water above sea level having a period of 18.6 years," '
the Court of Appeals directed that in order to ascertain
the mean high tide line with requisite certainty in fixing
the boundary of valuable tidelap4s, such as those here in
question appear to be, "an average of 18.6 years should
be determined as near as possible." We find no error in
that instruction.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that Knight
v. United States Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161, is controlling
and that the decree of the District Court should be
affirmed.

GRAHAM v. WHITE-PHILLIPS CO., INC.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 29.

Argued October 23, 24, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A construction of the Illinois Uniform Negotiable Instrument Act,
by the Appellate Court of Illinois, not approved by the state Supreme Court otherwise than by a naked denial of an application
for review of the case by certiorari, is not binding on the federal
courts. P. 30.
2. One who purchases a stolen negotiable bond in good faith before
maturity, for a valuable consideration, may be a holder in due
course despite the fact that notice of the theft had previously come
to him, if, through forgetfulness or*negligence, he had it not in
mind when purchasing. Illinois Negotiable Instrument Act, § 52
(4); § 56, construed. P. 31.
7 Id.

p. 81.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

3. This is the better doctrine which should be accepted by the federal
courts in the absence of an authoritative ruling in the State whose
laws apply. P. 32.
74 F. (2d) 417, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295- U. S. 728, to review a judgment re-

versing a decree of the District Court in favor of the petitioner. The proceeding originated in the state court,
where the petitioner and respondent here were interpleaded, and was removed to the District Court on the
'ground of diversity of citizenship.
Mr. James J. Barbour, with whom Mr. W. Edgar
Sampson was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William L. Patton, with whom Mr. Harold A.
Smith was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By an appropriate proceeding, the Treasurer of Illinois
sought an adjudication determining the ownershii of
eight one thousand dollar negotiable coupon bonds issued
by the State. They wef6 stolen frofh their lawful owner,
petitioier Graham, August 30, 1930, and on Sept. 22,1930,
were purchased for a fair price in the ordinary course of
its business by respondent's Chicago office from Connolly,
listed dealer at St. Paul, Minnesota. No circumstance
suggests conscious wrongdoing by the purchaser.
Three days after the theft, petitioner caused the Foreman corporation to send printed notices of it, with adequate descriptions of the bonds, to dealers throughout the
country.

Acceptipg the record upon the view most favorable to
the petitioner, we may assume, as the Circuit Court of
Appeals did, that the notice was received by respondent's
main office in Davenport, also at the Chicago branch, prior
to the purchase; there was absence of ordinary care upon

GRAHAM v. WHITE-PHILLIPS CO.
27

Opinion of the Court.

the part of the Chicago branch in not making more elaborate provision for dissemination of the knowledge given
by the notice; that respondent paid full value; at the
time of the purchase it had no actual knowledge of the
theft; it made no investigation to ascertain whether the
bonds were stolen, other than to inquire concerning the
status of the party offering them; the information given
by the notice had been forgotten.
The District Court declared, as conclusion of law:
"The respondent, The White-Phillips Company, Inc.,
by reason of having actually received, prior to its purchase of the securities here involved, a notice that the
same had been stolen as hereinabove set forth, did not, by
the purchase of said bonds, become a holder thereof in due
course, but that at such time the said respondent had
knowledge of such facts that its action in taking such securities amounted to bad faith."
Decree went for petitioner here, which upon appeal,
after a painstakirag review of the authorities, was reversed.
The cause was remanded for further proceedings.
The Illinois Negotiable Instrument Act provides:
"Holder in Due Course Defined. Sec. 52. A holder
in due course is a holder who has taken the instrument
under the following conditions:
"4. That at the time it was negotiated to him he had
no notice of any infirmity in the instrument or defect in
the title of the person negotiating it.
"Notice of Infirmity-What Constitutes. Sec. 56. To
constitute notice of an infirmity in the instrument or defect in the title of the person negotiating the same, the
person to whom it is negotiated must have had actual
knowledge of the infirmity or defect, or knowledge of such
facts that his action in taking the instrument amounted
to bad faith."
The court below rightly concluded that the narrow
question is this: "Did appellant have actual knowledge

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

of the infirmity or defect, or knowledge of such facts that
its action in taking the instrument amounted to bad:
faith?" It ruled, that, as a purchaser of negotiable instruments in good faith, before maturity and for a valuable consideration, respondent should be protected against
a charge of bad faith which has no fact support other
than the receipt of a notice circulated generally among
dealers which stated that certain bonds of a large issue
had been stolen.
Petitioner insists, that under the authoritative construction placed upon the Illinois Negotiable Instrument
Law by her Supreme Court, since respondent had received
information of -the defective title, there was bad faith as
matter of law, and no title passed. He strongly relies
upon Northwestern National Bank v. Madison & Kedzie
State Bank, 242 Ill. App. 22, and the denial of certiorari
therein. 1
Under Burns Mortgage Co. v. Fried, 292 U. S. 487, a
definite construction of the negotiable instrument law by
the State Supreme Court, binding upon the local tribunals, must be accepted by the federal courts. But
we cannot think that the ruling and action in the Northwestern Bank case amount to such a construction. That
cause, decided by the Appellate Court, First Division,
October, 1926, involved title to stolen bonds held by one
claiming as a bona fide purchaser, after receipt of notice
of the theft. The court there said: "The notice having
been received by the proper agent of the bank to receive,
open and acknowledge its mail in the line of his duties,
we think the bank is estopped from claiming, that it did
not ha;ve actual knowledge of the defect in the title to
the bonds it subsequently received." The State Supreme
Court denied an application for certiorari without more.
The argument is that this amounted to approval of the
construction placed upon the statute by the Appellate
Court. The point is not well taken.

GRAHAM v. WHITE-PHILLIPS CO.
27

Opinion of the Court.

National Bank v. Uptown State Bank; 273 Ill. App.
401, (1934) construed the statute differently; and -made.
no reference to the earlier case. We cannot know upon
what ground certiorari was denied. The Illinois Supreme
Court has declared that. "Whether one has notice of a
certain fact is a question of fact and not of law "; Paine
v. Sheridan Trust & Savings Bank, 342 Ill. 342, 348; 174.
N. E. 368; also that denial of certiorari does not imp6rt;
approval of the reasons assigned by the lower court.
People ex rel. Hoyne v. Grant, 283 Ill. 391, 397; 119 N. E.
344.
The Appellate Courts in Illinois are inferior tribunals
and a statute provided that their opinions "shall not be
binding authority in any case or proceeding other than
that in which they may be filed." Illinois Constitution,
1870; Article VI, § 11; Cahill's Illinois Rev. Stats. 1933,
c. 37, par. 49.
No authoritative construction of the negotiable instrument law of Illinois supports petitioner's position. And
the court below rightly undertook to determine for itself
the meaning and effect of the pertinent sections.
As with other enactments, the negotiable instrument
law must be initerpreted in view of the intended endhere, the free circulation of negotiable paper-and the.
meaning attributed by the courts to the language employed.
In a contest over title to stolen negotiable bonds, the
Supreme Court of Michigan recently considered-the Uniform Negotiable Instrument Law of that State. Merchants National Bank v. Detroit Trust Co. (1932), 258
Mich. 526-536, 537; 242 N. W. 739. It held that one may
purchase stolen negotiable bonds and acquire valid title
as a holder in due course, although before the purchase,
notice of the theft had come to him; but he may not willfully close his eyes to the notice, or resort to trick or artifice to avoid knowledge of its contents, or purposely forget

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

it. He must act in good faith. Concerning Northwestern National Bank v. Madison & Kedzie State Bank,.
supra, it said:
"As far as we have been able to determine this case
stands alone. It estops the purchaser from showing good
faith at the time the bonds are acquired. It makes notice of theft conclusive evidence of mala fides. It overlooks- the well-established rule that though one has received actual notice, if by forgetfulness or negligence he
does not have it in mind when he acquires the bonds, he
may still be a good-faith purchaser. It has been said that
the test is one of simple honesty and good faith."
It approved Lord v. Wilkinson, 56 Barb. (N. Y.) 593,
which rejected an instruction that "The defendants, once
having had notice, are bound by it, although the notice
may have been forgotten," and declared:
"If the rule is well founded, that notice once given is
good forever-that knowledge acquired when notice is
given, is conclusive evidence of knowledge possessed when
the notes were bought-then this charge is correct. But
if the bona fides of the defendants must be judged of from
.their acts, purposes and knowledge as they existed upon
the,,day of the purchase, then the notice served is only
prima facie or presumptive evidence of'mala fides, and
may be rebutted by proof that the notice was lost, or its
existence and contents forgotten."
The doctrine approved in Michigan should be accepted
by the federal courts, in the absence of an authoritative
ruling in the state whose laws apply. It accords with
what this court said in Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How.
343-36.5, 366, 367; Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110; Vermilye & Co. v. Adams Express Co., 21 Wall. 138-146;
Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 557-564; and 'King v.
Doane, 139 .U.S. 166-173. Also with the view long enforced in England. Raphael v. Bank of England (1855),

ATLANTA, B: & C. R. CO. v. U. S.

33

Syllabus.

27'

33 Eng.'Law and Eq. R., 276; London Joint Stock Bank
v. Simmons, Appellate Cases 1892, 201, 219; Venables v.
Baring Bros. & Co. (1892), 3 Ch. Div. 527. Likewise with
the conclusions of many state courts and writers of text
books, as is pointed out in Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, 7th ed. (1933), §§ 885, et seq,, and the accompanying notes.
The challenged judgment must be affirmed. The cause
will be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Affirmed.
ATLANTA, BIRMINGHAM & COAST RAILROAD

CO. v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 9. Argued October 15, 1935.--Decided November 11, 1935.
1. In a suit by a railroad company to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, concerning accounting and involving a valuation of the railroad's property, held that,'the court
is without power to weigh the evidence that was before the Cor
mission in making its valuation. P. 38.
2. The evidence before the Commission in this case supports its
finding that the value of the railroad property in question did not
exceed the value of its stocks issued in a reorganization. following
the liquidation of the former owner, the preferred stock being
appraised at par and the valuation of the no-par common stock
being limited to the amount which, in the reorganization, another
railroadcompany paid and agreed to pay for it, for the extinguishment of liens on the property. P. 36.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, which dismissed a bill to annul an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
33682-36---3

