U. S. TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER.

481

Syllabus.

463

possess, or any sacrifice of its proper dignity as a sovereign, if it prosecuted its claim in the appropriate forum
where the funds are held.
As we are dealing simply with the question of tife exercise of jurisdiction by the District Court, we intimate no
opinion upon the merits.
The decrees are
_Affirmed.

UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY OF NEW
YORK, TRUSTEE, v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 169.

Argued December 17, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

A trust created by a father for his three children, providing inter
alia that each of them should receive one-third of the net income
and upon termination of the trust one-third of the principal of
the trust estate, was amended, as permitted by the indenture, to
declare that the estate should be divided into three separate and
* equal shares, to which might be assigned undivided interests in the
whole or any part of it; that such shares should be designated
by the respective names of the three beneficiaries, and that each
of the beneficiaries should have the same rights, interest and power
in and over his share and the income thereof as was given to them,
respectively, by the original trust instrument over one-third of
the trust estate. The object of the amendment was to divide
the trust into three separate trusts in order to reduce liability for
income taxes. The cash and property of the trust were accordingly
transferred on the books of the trustee, in equal shares, to three
new accounts, one for each of the beneficiaries; income, disbursements, and new principal were entered in this same way; and the
accounts of the single trust were closed. Held:
1. That the single trust had been converted into three in accordance with the intention of the parties. P. 486.
2. It was not necessary that the cash and securities should
be physically divided. P. 487.
33682 o36-

31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S,

3. Any vested property right, including an undivided interest,
may constitute the corpus of a trust; a single fund may be held
on several trusts. P. 487.
75 F. (2d) 973, reversed.

CERTIORARI* to review a judgment reversing an order
of the Board of Tax Appeals which set aside an additional
tax imposed on a trustee by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.
Mr. Clay Judson for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner is trustee under a trust created by John P.
Wilson, in 1913, for the benefit of his three children.
Under a reserved power, the trust was four times amended.
The sole question is whether the amendments created
three separate trusts. The question arises in relation to
the taxation of income. If there is but a single trust, as
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled, an additional tax would be payable. If there are three trusts, as
the Board of Tax Appeals determined, there would be no
additional tax. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that
there was only one trust. 75 F. (2d) 973. Certiorari
was granted because of the conflicting decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in
Commissioner v. McIlvaine, 78 F. (2d) 787.
By the original deed, one-third of the net income of the
securities held in trust was to be paid to each of the three
children while living, and upon the death of any one, to
those who were to succeed to his or her interest in accord*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

U. S. TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
481

483

Opinion of the Court.

ance with the provisions of the deed. During the first
fifteen years of the trust the income could be accumulated
by the trustee, with the written consent of the primary
beneficiaries, and added to the principal. The trust was
terminable at any time in whole or in part by the three
children (or survivors) subject to the approval of the
grantor, if living, and in any event was to terminate on
the death of all the children. Upon termination, -onethird of the principal was to be distributed to each of the
three children if living, and the share of a deceased child
was to go according to the provisions of his or her will or,
in the absence of such disposition, to the surviving issue
of the decedent or, in default of such issue, to the surviving issue of the grantor per stirpes. Provision was made
for the alteration of the trust "in any respect and to any
extent at any time" by the three children, or survivors,
subject to the approval of the grantor if living. Thereafter the "rights and powers of all parties concerned"
were to be the same as though the trust deed had originally
been executed in the altered form.
In 1918, the three children, with the approv,9l of the
grantor, modified the trust so as to provide:
"The trust estate now held under said trust deed shall
be divided into three separate and equal parts or shares
(to which may be assigned undivided interests in the
whole or any part of the said trust estate), which parts
or shares shall severally be designated by our respectivc
names, and each of us and our respective legal representatives shall have the same rights, interest and power in and
over one of said three equal parts or shares and the income
thereof which is given to us respectively by said indenture over one-third of said trust estate and the income
thereof, except as may be otherwise specifically provided
herein."
It was further provided that the whole of the net income
received from each share during the remaindbr of 1918,

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

and one-half of the net income received thereafter and
during the life of the grantor, should be accumulated and
added to the principal of such share, with privilege of
withdrawal by the beneficiary, with the grantor's consent,
of the amount so accumulated. All the provisions of the
original trust deed, except as they were "expressly or
necessarily" modified by the new instrument, were to
continue in force.
In 1919, the three children, with the grantor's approval,
executed another modifying. instrument which provided
that one-half of the net income "of each of the three
trust estates" should be paid over, as received, to the beneficiaries entitled thereto, and that the other one-half
should be paid to them when the payment was requested
by any two of the original beneficiaries; the net income
not so paid over was to "be, added to the principal of the
trust fund from which it is derived." Provision was also
made for the disposition of the net income in case of
the death of any of the original beneficiaries and for
the distribution of the "several trust estates" upon
termination.
In 1920, the three children, with the approval of the
grantor, modified the amendment of 1919 with respect to
the disposition of income by providing that the trustee
should pay out "as much of the net income from each of
said separate trusts" to the beneficiaries as should be requested by a majority in interest of the beneficiaries, with
the added requirement that "equal payments must be
made out of the net income from each of said separate
trusts, to the end that said several separate trusts may
be maintained on a basis of equality in amount so far as
practicable." There was a further provision that so much
of the net income, "received in any year from each separate trust estate," which was not paid out should form
part "of the principal of the separate trust estate" from
which it was derived, and the trustee was required to

U. S. TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
481

Opinion of the Court.

devote to charitable purposes so much of the net income
"of said trusts". as should be requested by the three children (or survivors), such payments to be made "in equal
amounts from each of said separate trusts."
There was a further amendment in 1928 enlarging the
powers conferred upon the trustee by the original deed
with respect to the borrowing of money, the borrowed
sums to be dealt with "as part of the principal of the
three trusts hereunder, in equal shares."
The purpose of the first amendment and the subsequent course of dealings are thus described in the findings
of the Board of Tax Appeals, which are adequately supported by the evidence:
"The purpose of the amendment of September 21,
1918, was to create three separate ana distinct trusts, one
for each of the beneficiaries of the single trust then in
existence, in order to reduce liability for income taxes on
the income of the trust.
"Prior to the first amendment the truitee kept one cash
ac'rount for the trust under the heading' Trust under deed
of John P. Wilson, for John P. Wilson, Jr., and others'
to which was credited all income of the trust. On September 27, 1918, three accounts were opened up by the
trustee, one in the name of 'Trust under Deed of John
P. Wilson for John P. Wilson, Jr.'; one under the name of
'Trust under Deed of John P. Wilson, for Anna W. Dickinson'; and the other under the name of-'Trust under
Deed of John P. Wilson, for Martha Wilson.' The single
account was then closed by transferring equal amounts of
its balance to each of the new accounts. Thereafter cash
received and disbursed on account of the trust property
was entered in these accounts, one-third in each.
"At the same time the property account kept by the
trustee for the stock of the single trust was closed out by
transferring the items thereof equally to accounts opened
up under the names of the three befeficiaries. There was

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

no actual division of the property held under the trust
indenture. The new accounts as set up showed that onethird of each asset of the old trust represented the corpus
of three new trusts, one for each of the three children of
the grantor. Acquisitions of additional principal by purchase were divided equall among the three trusts.
"The stock certificates acquired by the trustee before
and after September 21, 1918, were carried in the name of
the petitioner as trustee under the deed of trust of John
P. Wilson or in the name of a nominee of the trustee.
The cash belonging to the trusts in question here and all
other trusts being administered by the trustee was kept in
one general account with another bank.
"During the taxable years the trustee rendered separate reports each month to the beneficiaries on the basis
of a separate trust for each. For each of the years 1924
to 1929, inclusive, it filed fiduciary and income tax returns
on the basis of a separate and distinct trust for each child.
In his audit of the returns the respondent determined
that the income held in trust under the indenture of
March 12, 1913, as amended, was taxable on the basis of
a single trust and a single return for each year."
The Board of Tax Appeals concluded that "three separate and distinct trusts" were created.
No question is raised as to the validity of the several
amendments. The only question is as to their construction and effect. The parties, if they pleased, had power to
convert the single trust into three trusts and the evidence
and findings leave no doubt as to their intention to do so.
The question is whether they accomplished their purpose.
United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156, 172. If the various
securities had been divided physically, if new certificates
of stock had been obtained for the several beneficiaries,
and such certificates and specific bonds and cash had been
set aside for each, there would be no room for argument
that three separate trusts were not created. But it was

U. S. TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
481

487

Opinion of the Court.

not necessary to have such a physical division in order to
carry out the clear intention of the parties. An undivided interest in property may constitute the corpus of a
trust. The original trust deed provided that its provisions and limitations should be construed according to the
laws of Illinois. But the elementary principle is applied
in Illinois, as elsewhere, that " every kind of vested right
which the law recognizes as valuable may be transferred in
trust." Burke v. Burke, 259 Ill. 262, 268; 102 N. E. 293,
295. "It [a trust] may be created in any property, real
or personal, legal or equitable, which is in existence, and
which in the eye of a court of equity, is of value."
Gurnett v. Mutual Life Insurance Co., 356 Ill. 612, 617;
191 N. E. 250, 252. Perry on Trusts, 7th ed., §§ 67, 68.
Nor are the amending instruments open to the objection
that the subject of the trusts was not adequately defined.
Compare Snyder v. Snyder, 280 Ill. 467, 469, 470; 117
N. E. 465; Marble v. Marble's Estate, 304 Ill. 229, 236;
136 N. E. 589. Where there is an intention to create
separate trusts, the fact that " the trusts" are "kept in
one fund" does not necessarily defeat the intention and require the conclusion that there is but a single trust. Matter
of Colegrove, 221 N. Y. 455, 459; 117 N. E. 813. "In
many cases," said the Court of Appeals of New York in
Vanderpoel v. Loew, 112 N. Y. 167, 180; 19 N. E. 481, 484,
where "income and principal were given in equal shares,
although out of one fund kept in solido for convenience of
investment, a severance of the trust into its component
parts has been adjudged. . . . The shares and interests
are several, although the fund remains undivided." See,
also, Rollestone v. National Bank of Commerce, 299 Mo.
57, 71; 252 S. W. 394.
In the instant case, immediately following the first
amendment, the trustee opened separate accounts for the
three trusts and the single account previously k2pt was
closed. Income received and amounts disbursed were n|i-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

296 U.S.

vided and entered in the separate accounts. The property account of the single trust was closed and the items
were transferred equally to separate accounts in the names
of the beneficiaries, showing one-third of the assets of the
old trust as representing the corpus of each of the three
trusts. New principal was divided equally in the same
way. If, at the outset, there had been three trust deeds,
each creating a trust for the benefit of a distinct beneficiary in an undivided one-third of the property involved,
no question would have arisen. We think the same result
was achieved by the use of the power of amendment. We
find no ground for concluding that the purpose of the
parties to create the three trusts was not carried out.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the order of the Board of Tax Appeals is affirmed.

Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. McILVAINE ET AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 566.

Argued December 17, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

Decided upon the authority of United States Trust Co. v. Commissioner, ante, p. 481.
78 F. (2d) 787, affirmed.
CERTIORARI *to

review a judgment affirming a decision

of the Board of Tax Appeals, 27 B. T. A. 304, which overruled an additional tax assessment on a trustee.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for, petitioner.
Mr. Clay Judson forXespohdents.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

