NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK CITY.
Counsel for Parties.

256

re Merrill & Baker, 186 Fed. 312; cf. Maynard v. Elliott,
283 U. S. 273, 278. The method here prescribed is not
governed by any rule or principle written into or derivable from the lease or recognized in law as governing in
such cases as this. Without transgressing the covenant,
he may make, terminate and renew leases covering the
premises without regard to rental value. He is free to
fix or control the amount of lessee's liability, at least
to the extent of the difference between free use and
reasonable rental value of the premises. It is clear that
the specified basis is not a valid one for the proving of
claims under ยง 63.
Affirmed.
NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK CITY.
PETITION FOR CONSTRUCTION OR MODIFICATION OF DECREE.

No. 10, original (October Term, 1934).

Rule to Show Cause issued

October 14, 1935.-Return to Rule presented November 18, 1935.Decided December 9, 1935.
1. The defendant City is granted leave to file a petition for construction or modification of the former decree, 290 U. S. 237.
2. Dumping of sludge at sea, as described and explained in the
petition, does not violate that decree.
3. Plaintiff's return does not put the petition in issue or show a
violation.
4. Plaintiff's motion for appointment of a Special Master denied.
5. This decree is without prejudice to plaintiff's rights under the

former decree.

Messrs. Paul Windels, Paxton Blair, and P. Fearson
Shortridge were on the brief in support of the motion for
leave to file the petition on behalf of defendant.
Mr. David T. Wilentz, Attorney General of New Jersey, and Mr. Duane E. Minard were on the Return to the
Rule to Show Cause on behalf of plaintiff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

260

296 U. S.

Decree.
DECREE,

announced by MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER.

On December 4, 1933, this Court "ordered, adjudged
and decreed:
"1. On and after July 1, 1934, the defendant, The
City of New York, its employees and agents, and all persons assuming to act under its authority, be and they
are hereby enjoined from dumping, or procuring or suffering to be dumped, any garbage or refuse, or other
noxious, offensive or injurious matter, into the ocean, or
waters of the United States, off the coast of New Jersey,
and from otherwise defiling or polluting said waters and
the shores or beaches thereof or procuring them to be
defiled or polluted as aforesaid.
"2. If defendant shall fail to comply with paragraph
1 of this decree by July 1, 1934, it shall pay to plaintiff
$5,000.00 a day until it does so comply; such payments
however are to be without prejudice to any other relief
to which complainant may be found entitled." 290 U. S.
237.
October 7, 1935, defendant applied for leave to file a
petition for construction or modification of the decree.
The purpose of the petition is to obtain a ruling that the
dumping of sludge gathered by sedimentation and free
of any matter capable of floating is not a violation of
the decree. The petition states that the sludge consists
of about 90 per cent. water and about 10 per cent. finely
divided solids that settle to the bottom of the water, and
in substance that no floating matter is included in the
sludge; that defendant takes to sea about 4,000 tons of
sludge per month and dumps it not less than ten miles
from shore, and that the amounts dumped by defendant
have ranged between one-twentieth and one-sixth of
those dumped contemporaneously at the same place by
the plaintiff or its political subdivisions.
The petition prays this Court to direct the State of
New Jersey to show cause why (1) a ruling should not
be made to the effect that the dumping of sludge, free

CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA.
259

261

Syllabus.

from any matter capable of floating, at places not less
than 10 miles from any shore, is not a violation of the
decree, or (2) in the alternative, why this Court should
not modify the decree so as to permit defendafit to dump
non-floating sewage sludge as aforesaid.
The Court ordered that a rule issue requiring plaintiff
to show cause why leave to file the petition should not
be granted. November 15, 1935, plaintiff by its return
consented to the filing of defendant's petition. And at
the same time plaintiff filed its motion for the appointment of a special master with power to summon witnesses, to take testimony, "to make findings of fact and
conclusions of law, respecting the allegations of the petition, and to submit the same to the Court with his recommendations, in respect to defendant's prayer therein."
Upon consideration of the premises, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
Defendant's motion for leave to file its petition is
granted. The facts alleged therein do not constitute a
violation of the decree of December 4, 1933. Plaintiff's
return and motion are not sufficient to put in issue the
allegations of defendant's petition or to show that defendant has failed to comply with the decree. Plaintiff's motion for the appointment of a special master is denied.
This decree is without prejudice to any application that
plaintiff may make under, in accordance with, or for the
enforcement of, the decree of December 4, 1933.
CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA EX REL.
STATE DOCKS COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 43.

Argued November 15, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. Article i, ยง 10, cl. 3, of the Constitution, providing that no State

shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage,

