OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S.

BECKER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. ST. LOUIS UNION TRUST CO. ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 262. Argued October 25, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.
1. Qome years before his death, decedent, by, declarations of trust,
transferred property irrevocably to himself as trustee for the
benefit of his children. The instruments provided in each case
that if the beneficiary should die before the settlor, the trust
estate should revert to the settlor absolutely, but if the settlor
should die first, the property should thereupon become the beneficiary's absolutely. In either of such cases, the trust was to
cease. Held, that the transfers were not intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment after the grantor's death, within the
meaning of ยง 302 (c), Revenue Act of 1926. Helvering v. St. Louis
Union Trust Co., ante, p. 39. P. 50.
2. The legal title, possession and control of property may by declaration of trust be passed irrevocably from the grantor to himself
as, trustee, with the same effect as if the trustee receiving the
conveyance had been another person. P. 50.
3. Decedent, 76 years of age and in excellent health, attending
regularly to business and apparently not looking forward in any
way to his death, set up trusts for his children, who were all past
21 years of age. So far as, appeared, his objects were to make
them allowances so that he might be relieved of care in their
regard, and to reduce his personal surtaxes. Held, that the evidence was insufficient to show that the transfers were made in
contemplation of death. Revenue Act, 1926, ยง 302 (c). P. 51.
4. The record in this case does not -show that the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue rested his assessment upon a finding that the
transfers in question were made in contemplation of death. P. 52.
76 F. (2d) 851, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review the reversal of a judgment of

the District Court in favor of the Collector in a suit to
recover money exacted as an additional estate tax.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

BECKER v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
48

49

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Maurice J. Mahoney were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Crawford Johnson, with whom Mr. Thomas S. McPheeters was on the brief, for respondents.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The decedent in 1921 executed separate declarations of
trust in favor of each of his four children, conveying to
himself as trustee certain securities. He died in 1928, at
which time the entire trust estate conveyed by the four
trusts amounted to nearly a million dollars, which amount
was included by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
as a part of the gross estate of the decedent and an additional estate tax assessed accordingly. The executors,
having paid the additional tax, brought this action in a
federal district court sitting in Missouri to recover the
amount. The district court denied recovery upon the
grounds that the transfer effected. by each declaration of
trust was made in contemplation of death and that it was
intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after decedent's death.
The Court of Appeals, after a very full review of the
facts and authorities, reversed the judgment. 76 F. (2d)
851. The case is here on certiorari.
The declarations of trust were in identical terms. By
each.,the grantor declared that he held in trust for the
person named certain property which was described. A
copy of pne of them is set forth in the opinion of the court
below. The trust instrument gave the trustee usual discretionary power with respect to sale of the trust property,
reinvestment of proceeds, collection of rents, income and
profits, payment of taxes and expenses incident to the
3(62'

-

:6-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

care, preservation and management of the property; and
provided that he should pay to the beneficiary an allowance of $300 a month, which might be increased or decreased from time to time in his discretion. Income not
distributed was to be added to the principal. The final
clause of the declaration provided:
"6. (a) If the said beneficiary should die before my
death, then this trust estate shall thereupon revert to me
and become mine immediately and absolutely, or (b) if
I should die before her death, then this property shall
thereupon become hers immediately and absolutely and
be turned over to her and in either case this trust shall
cease."
The government presents for our determination
two
(c),
ยง
302
of
questions-whether, under the provisions
Revenue Act of 1926, a transfer of the propei'ty tinder
each of the instruments here involved, (1) was intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after the
death of the grantor; (2) was made in contemplation of
death.
First. The first of these questions is settled by our decision just rendered in the case of Helvering v. St. Louis
Union Trust Co., ante, p. 39. By the declaration of trust
here under review, the legal title, possession and control
of the trust estate passed irrevocably from the grantor as
an individual to himself as trustee. The effect is no
different than if the trustee had been anothier person.
Cf. Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 346.
By the final paragraph of the declaration, quoted'above,
the grantor does not retain any interest in the property,
but, recognizing the completeness of the transfer, he provides that the property shall revert to him in case the
beneficiary shall predecease him. The provision that
the trust estate. shall "revert" in case of the predecease
of the beneficiary removes any doubt as to the completeness of the transfer, if otherwise there would be any. The

BECKER v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
48

Opinion of the Court.

question, therefore, is whether the mere possibility of a
reverter stamps the transfer as one intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after the death of the
grantor. The decision just rendered answers this question in the negative.
Second. The transfer to the trustee was complete and
became effective when made, seven years before the death
of the decedent. The factor which brings a gift inter
vivos within the teach of ยง 302 (c) with respect to transfers made in contemplation of death "is to be found in
the transferor's motive." United States v. Wells, 283
U. S. 102, 117. "Death must be 'contemplated,' that is,
the motive which induces the transfer must be of the sort
which leads to testamentary disposition. . . . The question, necessarily, is as to the state of mind of the 'donor.
. . . If it is the thought of death, as a controlling motive
prompting the disposition of property, that affords the
test, it follows that the statute does not embrace gifts
inter vivos which spring from a different motive." p. 118.
The opinion proceeds to give illustrations of those motives
which, have reference to life rather than to death-as,
for example, the desire to be relieved of responsibility;
to have children independently established with competencies of their own. In each case the circumstances are
to be scrutinized in order to discover the dominant motive
of the donor in the light of his bodily and mental condition. p. 119.
In the present case the district court found that the
motive of decedent was to decrease his income tax by
distributing a portion of his property among the four
trusts and, at the same time, to make provision for the
,distribution of the property to his children at decedent's
death, and concluded therefrom that the. transfer was
made in contemplation of death. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reached the opposite conclusion. It found on the
evidence that the decedent, in making the trusts, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

actuated by two motives-(1) to make his children independent; (2) to avoid high surtaxes on his income; and
that both of these motives were associated with life.
Evidence that the decedent was in any way influenced in
what he did by the thought of death, that court said, was
entirely lacking.
It is true that the decedent at the time of making the
trusts was 76 years of age. But the evidence shows clearly
that he was in excellent health, attending regularly to
business, apparently was not looking forward in any way
to his death, .came of a very long-lived family, expected
to live well beyond the age of 90, and in fact lived seven
years after making the trusts. The beneficiaries were all
past 21 years of age, and the record shows only that the
grantor's objects were to make them allowances in order
to get rid of the nuisance of treating them as children,
make them independent so they would know what they
were to get each year, and, as he had-ample income of his
own, to avoid the high surtax and make each of his
children pay a tax on the independent income received.
We are unable to find anything in the record which
conflicts with the statement of the court below that evidence that decedent was in any way influenced by the
thought of death was wholly lacking. The government
argues that the finding of the trial court in'respect of
the matter is the same as that of the commissioner, and
that this circumstance gives additional weight to that
court's finding. Our attention has not been called to
anything, in the record which shows that the commissioner's determination rested upon such a finding. The
petition alleges that the reason which brought about the
comnimissioner's determination was that the transfer was
one which "did not take effect :in possession or enjoyment until at or after the death of the decedent," and
that he so advised the respondents by letters.XThe answer affirmatively alleges that the commissioner's rea-

CHANDLER CO. V. BRANDTJEN, INC.
48

53

Syllabus.

sons were "that there had been no transfer of such property during the lifetime of the decedent; that such
property was transferred at and as a result of the death
of the decedent; and that such transfer was intended to
take effect at or after the death of the decedent," and
that the commissioner advised respondents accordingly.
We are unable to find anything in the record which justifies the conclusion that the commissioner specifically determined that the transfers were made in contemplation
of death, or, indeed, that there was any evidence before
him on that subject.
In this state of the record it cannot be said that the
finding of the trial court in this regard obtains any support from the determination of the commissioner. The
situation simply is that the findings of the lower courts
upon the matter are in conflict; and a careful examination of the evidence contained in the record convinces
us that the finding of the trial court was erroneous, and
we so hold.
Judgment affirmed.
The

CHIEF

JUSTICE,

MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

MR.

JUSTICE STbNE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO dissent for reasons stated in their dissent in Helvering v. St. Louis Union
Trust Co., ante, p. 46.
CHANDLER & PRICE CO. v. BRANDTJEN &
KLUGE, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued October 16, 17, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. On application to intervene in equity, it is the better'practice to
present the applicant's proposed answer. P. 56.
2. In a patent infringement suit brought against the user of a machine, the manufacturer of the accused article was permitted to in-

