HELVERING v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
33

39

Syllabus.

filed in 1923 in the Valuation Proceeding, and also the
evidence as to the cost of reproduction, and said:
"Clearly, the only pertinent value is that for purposes of
sale or exchange. Cost of reproduction is to be given
little, if any, weight in determining such value, in the
absence of evidence thaf a reasonably prudent man would
purchase or undertake the construction of the properties
at such a figure." (201 I. C. C. 670.)
_Affirmed.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAI 4
REVENUE, v. ST. LOUIS UNION TRUST CO.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 25.

Argued October 24, 25, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. Some years before his death, decedent conveyed property in trust
to pay' the income to his daughter during her life, with remainder over to persons named. The indenture also provided (1)
that'if the trustee should exercise a discretionary power given him
to terminate the trust, or (2) the daughter should die before the
grantor did, the property should be.transferred, to the grantor, to
be his absolutely. Neither of the contingencies had taken place
when "the grantor died. Held that the transfer was not "intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death,"'
within the meaning of § 302 (c), Revenue Act of 1924. P. 40.
2. That wbich gives rise to the estate tax. laid by § 301 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1924, is the death of the decedent, with the resulting transfer of his estate, either by will or the law relating to intestacy. When, therefore, § 302 (c) includes within the purview of § 301 (a) a transfer inter vivos "intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after his death," it does so upon
the thebry that such a transfer in effect is testamentary-that is
to say, a substitute for either a disposition by will or a passing in
virtue of intestacy. P. 41.
3. In this case the grantor had retained no right in the trust estate
which was the subject of testamentary disposition; and his death

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

passed no interest to any of the beneficiaries of the trust; it did
not enlarge the interests conveyed by the indenture, but simply

extinguished a mere poss-bility of reverter. Klein v. United States,
283 U. S. 231, distinguished. P. 43.
75 F. (2d) 416, affirmed.
CERTiORARI,

295 U. S. 727, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining an order, 28 B. T. A.
107, disapproving a deficiency tax assessment.
Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Maurice J. Mahoney were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Daniel N. Kirby for respondents.
By leave of Court, Mr. Garret W. McEnerney filed a
brief as amicus curiae, supporting the contentions of
respondents.
M R. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The decedent, several years prior to his death, transferred to a trustee certain securities in trust, to be held,
managed and disposed of as an active trust, the net income thereof' to be paid to the decedent's daughter during her life, with remainder over to the persons named.
The trustee was given discretionary power to terminate
the trust whenever the trustee might deem it wise to do
so, whereupon the estate was to revert to the grantor.
The :ndenture contained a further provision that if the
daughter predecease the grantor, the trust shall terminate
and the trust estate be transferred, paid over and delivered to the grantor, to be his absolutely. It is this latter
provision which gives rise to the question we are called
upon to consider. By the terms of the indenture, the
grantor recited that it was his intention to make for the

HELVERING v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
39

Opinion of the Court.

benefit of his daughter "an absolute and irrevocable gift
and settlement of the property . . . so tat the grantor
shall during the life of his said daughtex baM-V no furthr
individual or beneficial interest therein." The grant was
final and absolute in terms, and beyond the power of the
grantor to revoke or alter.: At the death of the grantor,
neither of the contingencies upon which the trust estate
would revert to the grantor had taken place.
The commissioner assessed a deficiency tax against the
estate upon the view that the grantor, having reserved the
right to a revestment in him of the trust property, title
to which he had conveyed, upon the happening of either
of the contingencies mentioned, the transfer to the trustee
was one "intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death" within the meaning of § 302
(c), Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 304.*
The Board of Tax Appeals decided against the commissioner's view, 28 B. T. A. 107, and its holding was upheld
by the court below. 75 F. (2d) 416.
The substantive provision of the act which imposes the
tax is § 301 (a); and by that provision the tax is laid
"upon the transfer of the net estate of every decedent
dying after the enactment of. this act." The event which
gives rise to the tax is the death of the decedent, with the
resulting transfer of his estate either by will or the law
relating to intestacy. When, therefore, § 302 (c) includes within the purview of § 301 (a) a transfer inter
vivos "intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death," it does so upon the theory
that such a transfer in effect is testamentary-that is to
* Sec. 302 provides that there shall be included in the gross egtate
the value of all property-"(c) To the extent of any interest 'therein of which the decedent
has at any time made a transfer, or with respect to which h6 has at
any time created a trust, in contemplation of or intended to take
effect in posbcssion or enjoyment at or after his death, .. . "

42

OCTOBER TERM, 19 5.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

say, a substitute for either a disposition by will or a passiig in virtue of intestacy.
"But such a transfer, not so made, embodies a transaction begun and completed wholly by and between the
living, taxable as a gift (Bromley v. McCaughn, 280
U. S. 124), but obviously not subject to any form of death
duty, since it bears no. relation whatever to death. The
generating s6urce' of such a gift is to be found in the
facts of life and not in the -circumstance of death. And
the deathafterward'of the donor in no way changes the
situation; that is to say, the death does not result in a
shifting, or in the conpletion of a shifting, to the donee
of any economic benefit of property, which is the subject
of a death tax, Chase Nat. Bank .v. United States, 278
U. S. 327, 338; Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S.
339, 346; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260, 271';
nor does the death in such case bring into'being, or ripen
for the donee or anyone else, so far as the gift is concerned, any property right or interest which can be the
subject of any form of death tax. Compare Tyler v.
United States, 281 U. S- 497, 503. Complete ownership
of the gift, together with all its incidents, has passed during the life of both donor and donee, and no interest of
any kind remains to pass to one or cease in the other
in consequence of the death which happens afterward."
(Ital. added.) Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S.312, 322-323.
- The property brought into the estate by subdivision
302 (c) for the purpose of the tax is, as said by this court
in Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 348,
... either property transferred in contemplation of
death or propeity passing out of the control, possession
or enjoyment of the decedent at his death, . . . In the
light of the' general purpose of the statute and the
language of [§ 301 (a)] explicitly imposing the tax
on net estates of decedents, we think it at least doubtful
whether the trusts or interests in a trust intended to be

HELVERING v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
39

43

Opinion of the Court.

reached by the phrase in [§ 302 (c)] 'to take effect in
possession or enjoyment at or after his death,' include any
others than those passing from the possession, enjoyment
or control of the donor at his death and so taxable as transfers at death under [§ 301 (a)]. That doubt must be
resolved in favor of the taxpayer." (Ital. added).
If, therefore, no interest in the property involved in a
given case pass "from the possession, enjoyment or control of the donor at his death," there is no interest with
respect to which the decedent has created a trust intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his
'death. The grantor here, by the trust instrument, left in
himself no power to resume ownership, possession or enjoyment except upon a contingency in the nature of a
condition subsequent, the occurrence of which was entirely fortuitous so far as any control, design or volition
on his part was concerned. After the execution of the
trust he held no right in the trust estate which in any
sense was the subject of testamentary disposition. His
death passed no interest to any of the beneficiaries of the
trust, and enlarged none beyond what was conveyed by
the indenture. His death simply put an end to what, at
best, was a mere possibility of a reverter by extinguishing
it-that is to say, by conv rting wh'at was merely possible into an utter impossibility. This is well stated by the
court below (75 F. (2d) at page 418):
"It was only in the case of the happening of certain
contingencies over which he had no control that the property would revert to him. One of these contingencies was
the death of his daughter prior to his death, while the
trust still continued; and the second was a termination
by the trustee of the trust during the lifetime of the
grantor. Neither of these contingencies occurred, and
there was, during the decedent's. lifetime, nothing more
than a possibility that either would occur.. In no proper
sense was there an enlargement of the interests of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

beneficiaries of the trust resulting from the death of the
'decedent. That event merely changed the possibility
that the property would revert into an impossibility."
It is not, in reason, possible to find in'the circumstances '
anything which suggests that the death of the grantor,
whenever it might happen, would effect any change, or
was intended to effect any change, in the extent or quality
of the estates conveyed in trust. The only death which
could have had any such effect was that of the daughter,
the grantee; and that event did not take place.
In that connection see Matter of Barstow, 230 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 371, 372-3, 244 N. Y. S. 588; aff'd 256 N. Y.
647; 177 N. E. 177. There the donor transferred irrevocably certain property to a trustee to be held in trust
for the benefit of two daughters, with the condition that
upon the death of both, the fund then in the hands of the
trustee was to be transferred back to the donor if then
living. The donor died leaving her daughters still living. The court held that the transfer took place when
the deed of trust was executed and not when the donor
died.
"Mrs. Barstow could do nothing to change the effect
of the deed. The corpus was beyond her control, except
for the happening of the contingency that she might survive the two life tenants, and then she would have been
revested with the corpus. The rights of the beneficiaries
did not depend upon the death of the donor. The term
of the trust was not measured by the life of the donor, but
by the lives of her two daughters.' They had an interest
in principal and income, provided one or both survived
the donor. They took a vested estate subject to being divested if the donor survived both daughters. If we 'are
to view the sequence of events in the order of the actual
rather than the possible' (Matter of Schmidlapp, 236
N. Y. 278, 286), then we have not only a right, but are
bound to conclude that because Mrs. Barstow' died before

HELVERING v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
39

Opinion of the Court.

the termination of the trust which she created, the transfer took place when the deed was executed, and not when
she died. There was the contingency that she might survive her daughters, but that did not depend upon any
affirmative or volitional act of the donor."
We think it unnecessary further to review the decisions
which support our conclusion. In addition to those already cited, the following are in point: May v. Heiner,
281 U. S. 238, 243; Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582; McCormick v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 784, reversing the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (43 F. (2d)
277), and in effect affirming the Board of Tax Appeals,
13 B. T. A. 423, 437; Duke v. Helvering, 23 B. T. A. 1104,
1113, aff'd 62 F. (2d) 1057, and affirmed by an equally
divided court in 290 U. S. 591; Wallace v. Helvering, 27
B. T. A. 902, 910, 913, aff'd 71 F. (2d) 1002, certiorari
denied 293 U. S. 600; St. Louis Union Trust Co. v. Becker,
716 F. (2d) 851.
The case of Klein v. United States, 283 U. S. 231, which
is strongly relied upon by the Government, does not support its position. There the grantor, 15 months prior to
his wife's death, conveyed to his wife by deed a life estate
in certain lands. But in the event that she survived the
grantor "and in that case only" she was to take the lands
in fee simple. The effect of this deed, we held, waa-that
only a life estate was vested, the remainder being, retained by the grantqr; and whether that should ever become vested in the grantee depdnded upon the condition
precedent that the grantor die during the life of the
grantee. The grantor having died first, his death clearly
effected a transmission of the larger estate to the grantee.
But here the grantor parted with the' title and all beneficial interest in the property, retaining no right with respect to it which would pass to anyone as a result of his
death. Unlike the Klein case, where the death was, the
generating source of the title, here, as the court below

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

said, the trust instrument and not the death was the generating source. The death did not transmit the possi'bility, but destroyed it.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.

Decedent, in making disposition of his property by his
trust deed, retained a valuable interest in the property
by Which he postponed final disposition of it until his
death. I think that the value of that interest was rightly
subjected to the tax imposed by § 302 (c). This conclusion is strengthened and not avoided by construing the
section as imposing a tax on the value of the interest
which is shifted from donor to donee on the former's
death. Although the tax is a death tax, § 302 (c) nevertheless applies to any interest in gifts inter vivos which,
by their provisions, are "intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after death," and such gifts
are subjected to the tax as a death tax if they are not
complete until the donor's death. Reinecke v. Northern
Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 345; Klein v. United States,
283 U. S. 231. The decedent's death, operating upon his
gift inter vivos not complete until his death, is the event
which calls the statute into operation. Klein v. United
States, supra, 234.
The section, in its scope and purpose, is thus similar
to § 302 (d) which includes in the decedent's taxable
estate the value of his interest held as joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety, althougl{ created by deed inter
vivos. Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497; Phillips v.
Dime Trust & S. D. Co., 284 U. S. 160. Both provisions
prevent tax evasion by subjecting to the death tax, forms
of gifts inter vivos which may be resorted to, as a substitute for a will, in making dispositions of property operative at death. See Tyler v. United States, supra, 505.

HELVERING v. ST. LOUIS TRUST CO.
39

SroNE, J.,

47

dissenting.

Compare No. 10, Helvering v. City Bank Farmers Trust
Co., decided this day, post, p. 85.
It seems plain that the gift here was not complete until
decedent's death. He did not desire to make a complete
gift. He wished to keep the property :for himself in case
he survived his daughter. He kept this hold upon it by
reserving from his gift an interest, terminable only at his
death, by which full ownership would be restored to him
if he survived his daughter. If he had reserved a power
to revoke the trust, if he survived her, Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., supra, would have made the gift taxable,
as would Klein v. United States, supra, if he had reserved
a remainder in himself with gift over, if he did not survive his daughter. Instead, by using a different form of
words, he attained the same end and has escaped the tax.
Having in mind the purpose of the statute and the
breadth of its language it would seem to be of no consequence what particular conveyancers' device-what particular string-the decedent selected to hold in suspense
the ultimate disposition of his property until the moment
of his death. In determining whether a taxable transfer
becomes complete only at death we look to substance, not
to form. Klein v. United States, supra, 234; Chase National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327, 335; Reinecke
v. Northern Trust Co., supra, 345; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260, 271. However we label the device it
is but a means by which the gift is rendered incomplete
until the donor's death.. The extent to which it is incomplete marks the.extent of the "interest" passing at death,
which the statute taxes.
The judgment should be reversed.
The CHIEF
JUSTICE

JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

CARDOZO join in this opinion.

and MR.

