OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S.

and the same shift of the beneficiaries of it is effected
simultaneously in a single document. No convincing
reason is suggested why the Act should be thought to tax
the one and not the other.
The statute is thus not restricted in its application to
rights to demand delivery of the stock such as the agreement vested in the stockholders of the two corporations.
It embraces the more general one, inseparable from the
transaction by which the obligation to issue the stock was
created and -which inhered in the two corporations by
operation -of lav. Income is not any the less taxable income of the taxpayer because by his command it is paid
directly to another in performance of the. taxpayer's obligation to that other. See Douplas v. Willcuts, decided
this day, ante, p. 1; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716; United States v. Boston & Maine
R. R., 279 U. S. 732. Here the power to command the
disposition of the shares included the right to receive
them and the exercise of the power which transferred the
right is subject to the tax.
Affirmed.
DI GIOVANNI

v. CAMDEN FIRE INSURANCE ASSN.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOi THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28.

Argued October 23, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

A fire insurance company sued two defendants in the federal district
court for the cancellation of two policies, one issued to both
defehdants, insuring a building, the other issued to one of them
insuring personal property in the building. The bill alleged that
defendants procured the policies by misrepresentations; caused the
property to be over-insured by the plaintiff and other insurers;
and then caused it to be destroyed by fire, all in execution of a.

DI GIOVANNI v. CAMDEN INS. ASSN.
64

.65

Syllabus.

conspiracy. It alleged also that defendants were about to begin
actions at law against plaintiff to recover the amounts of the policies,
but did not show that by agreement or by local law and procedure
both actions could not be disposed of by a single trial in a state
court. It was conceded that no action at law could be maintained
on either or both of the policies in the federal court, because each
was for less than the jurisdictional amount. Held:
1. The alleged fraud and destruction of property are available
as defenses to actions at law upon the policies. P. 68.
2. The bill cannot stand as a bill quia timet, there, being no
danger that the defense at law may be lost or prejudiced. P. 68.
3. Whether a suitor is entitled to equitable relief in the federal
courts, other jurisdictional requirements being satisfied, is strictly
not a question of jurisdiction in the sense of the power of a
federal court to act. It is a question only of the merits; whether
the case is one for the peculiar type of relief which a court of
equity is competent to give. P. 69.
4. If a plaintiff is entitled to be heard in the federal courts, he
may resort to equity when the remedy at law there is inadequate,
regardless of the adequacy of the legal remedy which the state
courts may afford. P. 69.
5. Want of the jurisdictional amount in controversy, which deprives a federal court of its authority to act at law, is not ground
for invoking its equity powers. P. 69.
6. Avoidance of the burden of numerous suits at law between
the same or different parties, where the issues are substantially
the same, is a recognized ground for equitable relief in the federal
courts; but this remedy rests in sound discretion, and a theoretical
inadequacy of legal remedy may be outweighed by other considerations. P. 70.
7. Equity not infrequently withholds relief which it is accustomed to give, where it would be burdensome to the defendant and
of little advantage to the plaintiff. P. 71.
8. The grounds for equitable relief to a single plaintiff which will
deprive two or more defendants of their right to a jury trial must
be real and substantial and its necessity must affirmatively appear.
P. 72.
9. The policy of Congress to leave original jurisdiction over cases
involving less than the jurisdictional amount exclusively to the state
courts should be recognized by the federal courts in cases within,
their discretionary powers. P. 73.
33682 -36------5

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

29P U. S.

10. The threatened injury to the plaintiff of having to defend
two suits at law in this case is of too slight moment to justify an
exercise of its discretion by the federal court, granting an equitable
remedy which would entail denial of a jury'trial to the defendants
and withdraw from the jurisdiction of the state courts suits which
could not otherwise be brought into the federal courts. P. 74.
75 F. (2d) 808, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 728, to review the reversal of a
decree of the District Court dismissing a bill to cancel
policies of fire ,insurance.

Mr. Harry L. Jacobs, with whom Mr. James-Daleo was
on the brief, i )r petitioners.
Mr. Walter A. Raymond, with whom Mr. Fenton
Hume was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a-suit in pquity, brought in the District Court for
Western Mi~souri by respondent, a New Jersey fire insurance company, against petitioners, citizens of Missouri, to
cancel two insurance policies. One, for $3,000, was issued
to petitioners, who. are husband and-wife, to insure them
against loss by fire of a building which they held as tenants by the entirety. The other, for $1,500, was issued to'
the husband to insure his personal property located in the
building. On motion to dismiss the bill of complaint for
want of equity and want of jurisdiction" the district court
dismissed the suit on the ground that the amount in controversy did not exceed $3,000. Its decree was reversed
by the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, 75 F. (2d)
808. This Court granted certiorari to settle an important
question of federalllaw affecting the jurisdiction of federal
courts.
. The bill of complaint alleges that the petitioners procured the two policies from respondent by representing

DI GIOVANNI v. CAMDEN INS. ASSN.
64

67

Opinion of the Court.

that they would not effect insurance on the property in
excess of a stated amount; that thereafter they did effect insurance with respondent and other companies in
excess of that amount, and in excess of the value of the
insured property, and then caused the property to be destroyed by fire, all in execution of a conspiraqy between
them. It avers that petitioners have filed proofs of loss
with respondent, and that they threaten to and are about
-to begin suits at law against respondent to recover the full
amounts of its policies.
A's the two policies are separate contracts, with different beneficiaries, insuring different properties, it is conceded that no suit at law could be maintained upon them
in the federal courts since neither exceeds $3,000, the
amount requisite for the jurisdiction of the federal courts,
and the two independent causes of action upon them
could not be joined in a single suit at law. The Court of
Appeals held that the jurisdictional requirement was satisfied by the expedient of seeking cancellation of the two
policies in a single suit in equity, wherein their amounts
might be united. It recognized that jurisdiction cannot
ordinarily be conferred on. a federal court by joining in
a single suit separate causes of action in none of which
is the amount involved more than $3,000 although their
aggregate exceeds that sum. Walter v. Northeastern R.
Co., 147 U. S. 370; Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164 U. S.
319. But it applied the doctrine sanctioned by this Court
in Woodmen of the World v. O'Neill, 266 U. S. 292; and
-McDanielv. Traylor, 212 U. S. 428, that in a bill to restrain the maintenance of vexatious suits by numerous
parties pursuant to a conspiracy among them, the allegations of, conspiracy are sufficient to tie together" the
amounts involved in the several suits so "that their aggregate is deemed to be the amount in controversy. The
Court of, Appeals thought that the equity .powers of the
district court were rightly invoked by the -allegations that

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

the two policies were obtained by fraud, and by the
prayer for their cancellation; and that the right to this
relief was not defeated by the existence of an adequate
remedy at law, since it would be necessary, to establish
the defense to the policies in two suits at law instead of
in one in equity, and more especially because the adequate remedy at law which will prevent resort to equity
in the federal courts is that available in the federal courts
at law, where the suits could not be heard for want of the
jurisdictional amount.
We address ourselves only to the question whether the
equitable relief is warranted, leaving aside doubts
whether the present case, by the allegation that the insurance was effected and the loss caused pursuant to a
conspiracy, is brought within the peculiar doctrine of
Woodmen of the World v. O'Neill, supra, where the conspiracy was to abuse the processes of the courts by the
prosecution of groundless suits.
1. This Court has recently pointed out that equity will
not compel the cancellation and surrender of an insurance policy procured by fraud where the loss has occurred and a suit at law to recover the amount of the
loss is pending or threatened. Enelow v. New York. Life
.Insurance Co., 293 U. S. 379. The alleged'fraud of petitioners, as well as their alleged destruction of the property insured are defenses available in suits at law upon
the policies. While equity may afford relief quia timet
by way of cancellation of a document if there is a danger that the defense to an action at law upon it may be
lost or prejudiced, no such danger is apparent where, as
respondent's bill affirmatively shows, the loss has occurred
and suits at law on the policies are imminent, and there
is no showing that the defenses cannot be set up and
litigated as readily in a suit at law as in equity. See
Enelow v. New York Life Insurance Co., supra, 384, 385

DI GIOVANNI v. CAMDEN INS. ASSN.
64

69

Opinion of the Court.

2. Section 24 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. ยง 41, restricts the jurisdiction of the district courts *hether at
law or in equity to controversies in which the amount
involved exceeds $3,000. Section 267 of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. ยง 384, forbids the maintenance of suits in
equity in the courts of the United States "in any case
where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had
at law." It is true, as this Court has often pointed out,
that the inadequacy prerequisite to relief in a federal
court of equity is measured by the character of remedy
afforded in federal rather than in state courts of law. See
Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford County, 281 U. S. 121;
Smfth v. Ames, 169 U. S.466; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. &
P. Ry. Co., 270 U. S.378. This follows from the nature of
"equity jurisdiction " of the federal courts. Whether a
suitor is entitled to equitable relief in the federal courts,
other jurisdictional requirements being satisfied, is strictly
not a question of jurisdiction in the sense of the power ok
a federal court to act. It is a question only of the merits;
whether the case is one for the peculiar type of relief
which a court of equity is competent to give. See Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 181, 182. If a plaintiff is entitled to be heard in the federal courts he may
resort to equity when the remedy at-law there is inadequate, regardless of the adequacy of the legal remedy
which the state courts may afford. Otherwise the suitor
in the federal courts might be entitled to a remedy in
equity which the federal courts of law are competent to
give, or, on the other hand, be obliged to, forego his right
to be heard in the federal courts in order to secure an
equitable remedy which state courts. of law do but the
federal courts of law do not give. See Stratton v, St.
Louis Southwestern Ry.,, 284 U. S. 530, 533, 534;
Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S.521, 529. But want. of
the jurisdictional amount in controversy which deprives

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

a federal court of its authority to act at law is not ground
for invoking its equity powers. The statute forbids resort to equity in the federal courts when they afford adequate legal relief. It does not purport to command that
equitable relief shall be given in every case in which they
fail to do so. Plainly it does not so command when the
want of legal remedy is due to the express prohibition of
Congress, applicable alike to suits at law and in equity.
See Healy v. Ratta, 292 U.'S. 263.
3. As the nature of the relief sought, cancellation of the
insurance policies, and the inability of the federal courts
to hear the suits at law for want of the jurisdictional
amount, do not warrant equitable relief, it is evident that
the remedy which respondent seeks depends on the
slender thread of its right to ask the federal court of
equity to save it the possible inconvenience of trying two
law suits instead of one. Avoidance of the burden of
numerous suits at law between the same or different
parties, where the issues are substantially the same, is a
recognized ground for equitable relief in the federal
courts. See Ogden Cit v. Armstrong, 168 U. S. 224;
Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56. But the award of this
remedy, as of other forms of equitable relief, is-not con:
trolled by rigid rules rigidly adhered to regardless of the
end to be attained and the consequences of granting the
relief sought. It rests in the'sound discretion of a court
of equity and a theoretical inadequacy of the legal remedy
may be outweighed by other considerations. In Hale v.
Allinson, supra, where this Court denied relief to a single
plaintiff who sought to unite in a suit in equity claims
founded upon the statutory liability of numerous stockholders of a corporation, it was careful' to -point out,
72-78:
".In any case where the facts bring it within the possible jurisdiction -of the court,
the decision must depend largely. upon the question .of the reasonable con.

DI GIOVANNI v. CAMDEN INS. ASSN.
64

71

Opinion of the Court.

venience of the remedy, its effectiveness and the inadequacy of the remedy at law....

Each case, if not

brought directly within the principle of some preceding
case, must, as we think, be .decided upon its own merits
and upon a survey of the real and substantial convenience
of all parties, the adequacy of the legal remedy, the situations of the different parties, the points to be contested
and the result which would follow if jurisdiction should
be assumed or denied; . . . The single fact that a multi-

plicity of suits may be prevented by this assumption of
jurisdiction is not in all cases enough to sustain it. It
might be that the exercise of equitable jurisdiction on this
ground, while preventing a formal multiplicity of suits,
would nevertheless be attended with more and deeper inconvenience to the defendants than would be cornpensated for by the-convenience of a single plaintiff, and
where the case is not covered.by any controlling precedent
the inconvenience might constitute good ground for denying jurisdiction."
Lord Hardwick, in laying down the. principles which
should guide the award of a bill of peace, the progenitor
of the modern bill to avoid multiplicity of suits, thought
that there was no occasion for the relief where the asserted
right could be established by "one or two actions at.law."
Lord Tenham v. Herbert, 2 Atk. 483. While it need not
be said that under no circumstances could the maintenance of two suits with common issues be so burdensome or inconvenient as to justify equitable relief, see
McHenry v. Hazard, 45 N. Y. 580; compare Empire Engineering Corp. v. Mack; 21.7 N. Y. 85, 95; 111 N. E. 475,
it is nevertheless true that the necessity of maintaining
two suits involving the -same issue seems rarely to.have
been burdensome enough to impel a plaintiff, to seek equitable relief. Equity not infrequently withholds relief
which it is accustomed to give .where it would be burdensome to-the defendant and of little advantage to the plain.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

tiff. See Harrisonville v. Dickey Clay Co., 289 U. S. 334,
338, and cases cited; cf. Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557;
Hennessy v. Woolworth, 128 U. S. 438; McCabe v. Matthews, 155 U. S. 550, 553. The present case is different
from Woodmen of the World v. O'Neill, supra, where
twenty-five groundless suits were being prosecuted against
the complainant, and relief of the respondent from the not
very certain risk that it may have to try two suits at law
upon its two contracts would, without more, hardly compensate for depriving the petitioners of their right to a
trial by jury.
The bare fact that a plaintiff is threatened with two
suits on the same document and having common issues
has been held not to be enough to call for their trial in a
single suit in equity. Druon v. Sullivan, 66 Vt. 609; 30
Atl. 98. There appears to be no case in this court where
the relief has been granted in such a case and there are
numerous cases where equitable considerations were
thought to require denial of the relief even though more
than two suits were involved. See Matthews v. Rodgers,
supra, 529, 530, and cases cited.
The grounds for relief to a single plaintiff which will
deprive two or more defendants of their right to a jury
trial must be real and substantial and its necessity must
affirmatively appear. See Boise Artesian Hot & Cold
Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276, 285, 286; Dalton
Adding Machine Co. v. State Corporation Comm'n, 236
U. S.699, 700, 701. Respondent's bill of complaint does
not show that petitioners are unwilling to abide the result
of a trial of one suit as controlling both; or unwilling to
try first the suit in which they would be joint plaintiffs,
or that in that case the judgment would not be res adjudicata in a subsequent suit, or in any case would not suffice
to dispose of both; or that upon appropriate application,
the state court would not direct the trial of the controlling
case first. Where the burden of which the plaintiff com-

DI GIOVANNI v. CAMDEN INS. ASSN.
64

73

Opinion of the Court.

plains is so slight he should make a more persuasive showing that it can be avoided only by resort to equity. See
Galion Iron Works v. Ohio Corrugated Culvert Co., 244
Fed. 427.
Finally it is to be noted that this tenuous ground for
the exercise of equity powers is put forward as the sole
medium by which suits may be withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the state courts which could not have been removed to or otherwise brought into the federal courts.
While the consequences of the court's grant of equitable
relief cannot affect its power, they nevertheless have an
important bearing on the exercise of the judicial discretion which must guide a court of equity in determining
whether it should grant or withhold a remedy which it is
within its power to give. Its discretion may properly be
influenced by considerations of the public interests involved. See United States ex rel. Greathouse v. Dern,
289 U. S. 352, and cases cited. The power reserved to the
states under the Constitution to provide for the determination of controversies in their courts may be restricted
only by the action of Congress in conformity to the judicial sections of the Constitution. Congress, by its legislation, has declared its policy that cases involving less than
the jurisdictional amount be left exclusively to the state
courts, except that a judgment of the highest court of the
State adjudicating a federal right may be reviewed by this
Court. See Healy v. Ratta, supra, 269, 270. Courts of
equity, in the exercise of their discretionary powers, should
recognize this policy by scrupulous regard for the rightful
independence of the state governments; and a remedy infringing that independence, which might otherwise be
given, should be withheld if sought on slight or inconsequential grounds. See Williams v. Pennsylvania, 294
U. S. 176, 185; Matthews v. Rodgers, supra, 575; cf: Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission of
Kentucky, 290 U. S. 264, 271-273; Kennedy v. Tyler, 269
U. S. 13.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S

We think the threatened injury to respondent is of too
slight moment to justify a federal court of equity, in the
exercise of its discretion, in according a remedy which
would entail denial of a jury trial, to the petitioners and
withdraw from the jurisdiction of the state courts suits
which could not otherwise be brought into the federal
courts.
Reversed.
BECKER STEEL COMPANY OF AMERICA v. CUMMINGS, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 13.

Argued October 17, 1935.--Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A suit in the District Court by a non-enemy claimant against the
Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer of the United States
to recover the proceeds of property which was seized and disposed
of under the Trading with the Enemy Act, is in substance a suit
against the United States, authorized by ยง 9 (a) of that statute.
P. 78.
2. The' question whether such a suit may be maintained where the
money demanded had been disbursed before suit begun, held
not a question of the jurisdiction of the District Court, in the
strict sense of its power or authority as a federal court to decide
whether suit would lie, but a question of the proper construction
of the statute, which that court had power to determine. P. 78.
3. Section 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, which provides
the only remedy allowed the non-enemy owner of property seized
by the Alien Property Custodian upon an erroneous determination
of enemy ownership, must be construed to avoid doubts of the
constitutionality which would arise if the remedy were inadequate.
P. 79.
4. The implication that by the appropriation of private property to
public use the United States intends to make just compensation
must enter into the construction of a statute giving to a non-enemy
a remedy for the seizure of his property as a war measure. P. 79.
5. Only compelling language. in a statute will be construed as withdrawing or curtailing' the privilege of suit against the United

