HELVERING v. COMBS.
362

Syllabus.

were to render annual accounts. The trust agreement also
made provision for a written registry of beneficiaries, who
could transfer their interests in a described manner, after
having first offered them to the other beneficiaries.
The renting of apartments, the details of management
and the distribution of net income, were committed to a
firm (of which Joseph E. Swanson was a member) engaged in the business of buying and selling real estate
and managing properties. That firm acted under the
direction of Ralph C. Otis and Joseph E. Swanson and
the "entire affairs of the Lake View Land Association"
were at all times in their hands.
Applying the governing principles, as set forth in our
opinion in Morrissey v. Commissioner, supra, we agree
with the Court of Appeals that the-trust constituted an
association and was taxable as such. The limited number
of actual beneficiaries did not alter the nature and purpose
of the common undertaking. Nor did the fact that the
operations of the association did not extend beyond the
real property first acquired change the quality of that
undertaking.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. COMBS ET AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 238.

Argued November 22, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

A common enterprise, under a trust instrument, for acquisition of
an oil lease, drilling and operation of an oil well, sale of the products, sale of the well, and distribution of income among the beneficiaries, held taxable on income as an "association" under the
Revenue Act of 1926, upon the authority of Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344. P. 368.
76 F. (2d) 682, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

CERTIORaRI * to review a judgment affirming a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals which overruled an assessment of income taxes laid-on a trust as an "association."

Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Dana Latham, with whom Mr. Melvin D. Wilson
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The trustees of E. E. Combs Well No. 2 contested the
ruling of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that the
taxpayer was taxable as an association, and not as a trust,
on its income for the years 1925 and 1926. The Board of
Tax Appeals sustained their contention and the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Board. 76 F.
(2d) 682. A writ of certiorari was issued in view of the
conflict of decisions to which we have referred in Morrissey v. Commissioner,ante, p. 344.
The trust was created "to finance and drill a well for
production and sale of oil and other hydro-carbon substances under Oil and Gas Lease dated July 24, 1924." By
the agreement, the Hub Oil Company, a California corporation and owner of the oil and gas lease, assigned to
E. E. Combs and Edward Everett as Trustees all its rights
under the lease, subject to a reservation of 6.5 percent of
all oil, gas, and other hydro-carbon substances which
might be produced and of a royalty interest in favor of
one Smithson of 2 percent. The agreement described as
beneficiaries "All persons who may own or acquire portions of the whole beneficial interest" as defined. The
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this voluine.

HELVERING v. COMBS.
365

Opinion of the Court.

assignor agreed to supply to the trustees certain equipment, and one Bailes had already agreed to furnish other
equipment and materials and to superintend the operation
of drilling the well in consideration of 12 percent of the
production. The trust was to pay all labor claims and for
materials not otherwise provided.
The "whole beneficial interest" in the trust was defined as .71333 percent of gross production, and the
beneficiaries were to be paid their pro rata shares, after
deduction for the payment of lawful trust obligations, as
follows: (a) 25 percent of gross production to the beneficiaries who provided money for the trust purposes, (b)
.44333 percent to E. E. Combs, and (c) 2 percent to
Edward Everett. Certificates of beneficial interest were
to be issued in approved legal form and were to be held
in escrow until a, producing well was brought in. Thirteen persons were named as beneficiaries, with the
amounts contributed and the percentages owned by each,
these amounts aggregating $25,000 and the percentage
of ownership amounting to 25 percent. The "certificate
of beneficial interest" recited that the party named was
the holder of a beneficial interest under the trust agreement in the amount stated and that the same was transferable only upon the books of the trustees, upon endorsement and surrender of the certificate. The trustees were
authorized to hold all property and property rights, the
legal title to which might vest in them under the trust,
to use the moneys deposited by beneficiaries to pay for
labor, casing and other materials incident to drilling and
production, to manage and protect the trust property, to
pay "trust debts," to sell all products of the well, to borrow money upoi the credit of the trust, and to sell any
" unsold beneficial interests" as they might deem best for
trust purposes. The trustees were not to be individually
liable except for willful misconduct. E. E. Combs was
to act as production manager at a stated salary after the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

well was in production. All proceeds "of sale of well
products" were to be paid into a designated bank to be
distributed as agreed.
The provisions of the agreement were carried out. The
thirteen described beneficiaries contributed the amount
above stated. A well was drilled in 1925 and produced
oil through the remainder of that year and for a portion
of the year 1926. In the latter year the Trustees sold the
lease. In both years they currently distributed to the
beneficiaries the net proceeds from the sale of oil and
from the sale of the lease and, after the latter sale and
distribution of the moneys received, the trust was terminated.
The beneficiaries did not hola a meeting and the trust
had no office or place of business, no seal, by-laws or
official name, and the operations of the trustees were confined to the one lease they acquired.
In considering whether an association was created, the
fact that the beneficiaries did not exercise control is not
determinative. Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144; Morrissey v. Commissioner,supra. The parties joined in a common enterprise for the transaction of business, and the
beneficiaries who contributed money for that purpose became associated in the enterprise according to the terms
of the arrangement. The essential features of the enterprise were not affected by the fact that the parties confined their operations to one oil well. See Swanson v.
Commissioner, ante, p. 362. Parties may form an association for a small business as well as for a large one.
Here, through the medium of a trust the parties secured
centralized management of their enterprise, and its continuity during the trust term without termination or interruption by death or changes in the ownership of interests, and with limited liability and transferable beneficial interests evidenced by certificates. Entering into a
joint undertaking they avoided the characteristic re-

HELVERING v. COLEMAN-GILBERT.

369

Counsel for Parties.

365

sponsibilities of partners and secured advantages analogous to those which pertain to corporate organization.
The fact that meetings were not held or that particular
forms of corporate procedure were absent is not controlling. Morrissey v. Commissioner, supra.
We think that the taxpayer was taxable as an association. The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. COLEMAN-GILBERT ASSOCIATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 78 and 79.

Argued November 21, 1935.-Decided
December 16, 1935.

1. A common enterprise, under a trust agreement, for the owning,
operating, leasing, and selling of particular property conveyed
to the trustees by its co-owners, and of such other, similar property as it might acquire, and for distribution of net income among
the trust beneficiaries, held taxable on income as an "association"
under the Revenue Acts of 1926 and 1928. Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344. P. 372.
2. The parties are not at liberty to disclaim the purpose of the
trust organization as revealed by the trust instrument. P. 373.
76 F. (2d) 191, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 30 B. T. A. 1463,
which sustained assessments of income taxes laid on a
trust as an "association."

Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and
Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for petitioner.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
33682 o-36--24

