CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

DOUGLAS v. WILLCUTS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued October 14, 1935.-Decided' November 11, -1935.
1. Payments to a divorced wife under a decree for alimony are
not regarded as income of the wife but as paid in discharge of the
general obligation to support, which is made specific by the decree. P. 8.
2. In a decree of divorce and for alimony, a Minnesota court adopted
a provision agreed to by the parties on the eve of the action,
whereby securities were conveyed by the husband to a trustee from*
the income of which the wife, during her lifetime, was to receive
annual payments "in lieu of, and in full settlement of alimony, and
of any and all dower rights or statutory interests in the estate" of
her husband, and "in lieu of any and all claims for separate maintenance and allowance for her support." The decree adjudged that
the husband provide and create the trust fund as set out in the
agreement, and that the wife have the provision made in the
agreement "in lieu of all other alimony or interest in the property
or estate " of her husband. Held:
(1) .That, by the law of Minnesota, the State court was not
bound by the trust agreement but had full authority to make the
allowance to the wife out of the husband's property and to set up
a trust to give effect to the allowance; and, by adopting the terms
of the trust agreement, t made them its own. P. 6.
33682'-36-

1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

296 U. S.

(2) That the provision for annual payments adopted in the decree became an award of alimony, imposing upon the husband, in
fulfilment of his statutory duty, the obligation of devoting the in-.
come, through the medium of the trust, to the use of the divorced
wife. P. 8.
(3) That the income from the trust was not income of the wife
but income taxable to the husband under RevenuE Acts 1926,
§ 213, and 1928, § 22, defining gross income. P. 9.
3. Section 213, Revenue Act 1926, and § 22, Revenue Act 1928,
defining gross income, are to be construed in the light of the evident
intent of Congress to make full use of its power to tax incomP. 9.
4. The provisions of § 219, Revenue Act 1926, and §§ 161, 162,
Revenue Act 1928, as to taxation of trusts, fiduciaries and
beneficiaries, refer to cases where the income of the trust is no
longer to be regarded as that of the settlor, and were not intended
t6 apply to cases where such income would otherwise remain,
by virtue of the nature and purpose of the trust, attributable to
the creator of the trust and accordingly taxable to him. P. 9.
5. Section 219 (h), Revenue Act 1926, and § 167, Revenue Act
1928, define instances in which the grantor remains taxable, as
in case of certain reservations for his benefit or provisions for
the payment of premiums upon policies of insurance on his life,
but are not to be regarded as excluding instances, not specified,
where in contemplation of law the income remains in substance
that of the grantor. P. 10.
73 F. (2d) 130, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 722, to review a judgment reversing one for the present petitioner in the District Court in
a suit to recover moneys paid under protest as income
tax..
Mr. Leland W. Scott, with whom Mr. Clark R. Fletcher
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Sewall Key, Norman D.
Keller, and Arnold Raum were on the brief, for respond-

DOUGLAS v. WILLCUTS.
Opinion of the Court.

MI. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
On September 12, 1923, petitioner, Edward B. Douglas,
entered into an agreement with his wife and the Minneapolis Trust Company, by which he transferred securities
in trust for his wife's benefit. Out of the income of the
trust estate 'the trustee was to pay Mrs. Douglas annually the sum of $15,000, up to November 6, 1927, and
thereafter $21,000. Deficiencies were to be made up in
a prescribed manner. Excess income (in case the principal was not impaired) was to be paid to petitioner. On
the death of his wife, he was to receive the property free
of the trust. Petitioner reserved the right to designate
securities for -investment, subject, however, to the approval of the trustee acting in that respect on behalf
of Mrs. Douglas.
The parties stipulated that the provisions for Mrs.
Douglas were "in lieu of, and in full settlement of alimony, and of any and all dower rights or statutory interests in the estate" of her husband, and "in lieu of any
and all claims for separate maintenance and allowance
for her support."
Three days later, Mrs. Douglas obtained a decree of
absolute divorce in a district court of the State of Minnesota. The decree provided:
"It Is Further Adjudged and Decreed that the defendant provide and create the trust fund as set out in that
certain agreement between said parties and the Minneapolis Trust Company as trustee now on file with said trus.
tee, and that the plaintiff have the provision therein
made in lieu of all other alimony or interest in the property or estate of the defendant and that neither party
have any costs or disbursements herein."
The, question in this case relates to the net income of
the trust which 'Was distributed to Mrs. Douglas in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

years 1927 and 1928. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue determined that :these amounts were income to
the petitioner. Taxes assessed accordingly were paid by
petitioner under protest, claim for refund was disallowed,
and this suit was brought to recover the amount paid.
Judgment for petitioner was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals.' 73 F. (2d) 130. We granted certiorari
(April 8, 1935) in view of an asserted conflict with the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh
Circuit in the case of Schweitzer v. Commissioner, 75 F.
(2d) 702,. 705, 706.
Petitioner contends that the agreement created an irrevocable trust; that under the Revenue Acts petitioner
and Mrs. Douglas were separate taxpayers, and that,
having accepted the benefits of the trust, she was taxable upon the income she received as beneficiary. Revenue Acts, 1926, § 219; 1928, §§ 161, 162, 167; Helvering
v. Butterworth,290U. S. 365,369,370. The Circuit Court
of Appeals decided that the income was taxable to the
petitioner, since it went to the discharge of' his legal
obligation; :that is, the income was devoted to payments
which petitioner was bound to make under the decree of
the Minnesota court. 73 F. (2d)rp, 133.
The authority of the district court is defined by statute.
Mason's Minnesota Statutes, 1927, §§ 8601-8604. The
court is empowered upon divorce for any cause, except
that of the wife's adultery, to decree to the wife "such
part of the personal and real estate of the husband, not
exceeding in value one-third 'thereof, as it deems j iist and
reasonable, having regard to the ability of the husband,
the character. and situation of the parties, and all other
circumstances of the case." The court may also decree
"such alimony out of the estate, earnings and income
of the husband as it may deem just and reasonable," but
"the aggregate award and allowance made to the wife
from the estate of the husband" is not "to exceed in

DOUGLAS v. WILLCUTS.
Opinion of the Court.

present value one-third of the personal estate, earnings,
and income of the husband, and one-third in value of his
real estate." Id., § 8602. The court "may appoint trustees, whenever it is, deemed expedient, to receive any
money ordered to be paid to the wife, upon trust to invest the same, and pay over the income for the support of
the wife, or of the wife and minor children of the parties,
or any of them, in such manner as the court shall direct,.
or to pay over to the wife the principal sum in such proportions and at such times as the court shall order." Id.,
§ 8601. After a decree "for alimony, or other allowance
for the wife and children," or "for the appointment of
trustees to receive and hold any property for the use of
the wife or children," the court may from time to time
"revise and alter" the decree, with respect to the amount
"of such alimony or allowance" and also with respect to
"the appropriation and payment of the principal and income of the property so held in trust, and may make any
order respecting any of the said matters which it might
have made in the original action." Id. § 8603.1
1 The text of these provisions is as follows:

"Sec. 8601. Trustee of alimony.-The court may appoint trustees,
whenever it 'is deemed expedient, to receive any money ordered to
be paid to tlhe wife, upon trust to invest the same, and pay over
the income for the support of the wife, or of the wife and minor
children of the parties, or any of them, in such manner as the court
shall direct, or to pay over to the wife the principal sum in such
proportions and at such times as the court shall order, regard being
had in all such cases to the situation and circumstances of. such
wife, and the children if there are any, provided for in the order';
and such trustees shall give such bond, as the court shall require,
for the faithful performance of their trust.
"Sec. 8602. Property of husband-Permanent alimony.-Upon a
divorce for any cause except that of adultery coipmitted by the
wife, if the estate and property restored or awarded to her is insufficient for the suitable support of herself and such children of the
marriage as shall be committed to her care and custody, or if there
is no such estate and property, the court may further order and

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

The Supreme Court of the State has decided that the
district court in exercising this authority is not precluded
by stipulations and ,agreements of the parties, entered
into pending the action (but not void by reason of having
been made to facilitate the decree of divorce), from making such provision for the wife as the court may deem
appropriate. Such stipulations or agreements do not control the court. The court may adopt or reject them as it
deems best in the light of the situation of the parties.
When such agreements are approved, and in effect are
embodied in the decree, they do not detract from the authority of the court to alter or revise its decree and the
provisions made for the wife's benefit. In Warren v.
decree to her such part of the personal and real estate of the husband, not exceeding in value one-third thereof, as it deems just and
reasonable, having regard to the ability of the husband, the character and situation of the parties, and all other circumstances of the
case. The court may also, in the cases provided for in this section,
decree to the wife such alimony out of the estate, earnings, and income of the husband as it may deem just. and reasonable, having
regard to the ability of the husband, the character and situation
of the parties, and other circumstances of the case, and may by its
decree make the same a specific lien upon any specified parcels of
his real estate, or authorize its enforcemeut by execution against his
property, real and personal; but the aggregate award and allowance
made to the wife from the estate of the husband under this section
shall not in any case exceed in present value one-third of the personal estate, earnings, and income of the husband, and one-third in
value of his real estate.
"Sec. 8603. Order for alimony, etc., revised.-After an order or decree for alimony, or other allowance for the wife and children, or
either of them, or for the appointment of trustees to receive and hold
any property for the use of the wife or children, the court, from time
to time, on petition of either of the parties, may revise and alter such
order or decree respecting the amount of such alimony or allowance,
and the payment thereof, and also respecting the appropriation and
payment of the principal and income of the property :so held in
trust, and may make any order respecting any of the said matters
which it might have made in the original action."

DOUGLAS v. WILLCUTS.
1

Opinion of the Court.

Warren, 116 Minn. 458; 133 N. W. 1009, the Court said
(pp. 459, 460):
"It appears that the original judgment for alimony
was based upon a stipulation of thc parties, entered into
pending the action, but-not to facilitate the granting of
the divorce, and plaintiff contends that the judgment so
founded and entered became a contract between the parties, and is not subject to change by the court, except
upon-restoration of plaintiff to her position and rights
before its entry. In this we are unable to concur.
"Stipulations and agreements of the kind, where not
void by reason of having been entered into to facilitate
a decree of divorce, become merged in the judgment when
entered, and are not, in the absence of statute upon the
subject, so far of a contractual nature as to preclude the
court subsequently from changing and modifying the
judgment, upon application of one of the parties. The
court is not controlled by the stipulation, and may adopt
or reject it as seems consistent and proper from the situation of the parties, as disclosed by the evidence on the
trial. The fact that such stipulations are usually adopted
by the court does not change. the situation."
See, also, Haskell v. Haskell, 116 Minn. 10; 132 N. W.
1129; Martinson v. Martinson.;116Minn. 128; 133 N. W.
460; Sessions v. Sessions, 178 Minn. 75; 226 N. W. 211;
Randall v. Randall, 181 Minn. 18; 231 N. W. 413; Erickson v. Erickson, 181 Minn.421.; 232 N. W. 793.
AS we have noted; this control over proisions for the
benefit of the wife in connection with divorce applies by
the express terms of the' statute not only to "alimony"
but also to "other allowance for the wifeand children, or
either of them," and to "the appointment of trustees, to
receive and hold any property for the use of the wife or
children." See§ 8603.
In -the instant case, the trust agreement was made on
the day that the suit for divorce was brought. The agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

ment was manifestly made in contemplation of that suit.
When the district court was shortly called upon to determine what provision should be made for the wife, the
court was not bound by the trust agreement. Within the
limits prescribed by the statute (and there is no suggestion that the provision here went beyond those limits) the
court had full authority to make an allowance to the wife
out of her husband's property and to set up a trust to give
efect to that allowance. Being satisfied with the provision made by the trust agreement, the court incorporated
that provision in its decree. The court did not approve
the trust agreement as one deriving efficacy from the action of the parties. The court made its own requirement.
The decree required the petitioner to "provide and create
the trust fund." While the terms of the trust as set up in
the trust agreement were approved, the court made those
terms its own. It was from this action of the court that
the trust derived its force.
'Amounts paid to a divorced wife under a decree for alimony are not regarded as income of the wife but as paid
in discharge of the general obligation to support, which is
made specific by the decree. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S.
151, 153; Audubon v. Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 575, 577. Petitioner's contention that the district court did not award
alimony is not supported by t1he terms of the decree. It
described the provi'sion as made "in lieu of all other alimony or interest in the property or estate of the defendant." However designated, it was a provision for annual
payments to serve the purpose of alimony, that is, to assure to the wife suitable support. The fact that the provision was to be in lieu of any other interest in the husband's property did not affect the essential quality of
these payments. Upon the prexisting duty of the husband the -decree placed a particular and adequate sanction,
and imposed upon petitioner the obligation to devote the

DOUGLAS v. WILLCUTS.
Opinion of the Court.

income in question, .through the medium of the trust, to

the use of his divorced wife.
No question is raised as to the constitutional power of
the Congress to attribute to petitioner the income thus
segregated and paid in -discharge of his obligation, and
that authority could not be challenged successfully. Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 677, 682, 684. The question is
one of statutory construction. We think that the definitions of gross income (Revenue Acts, 1926, § 213; 1928,
§ 22) are broad enough to cover income of that description. They are to be considered-in the light of the evident
intent of the Congress "to use its power to the full extent." Irwin v. Gavit., 268 U. S. 161; Helvering v. Stockholms Bank, 293 U. S. 84, 89. We have held that income
was received by a taxpayer, when, pursuant 'to a contract,
a debt or other obligation was discharged by another for
his benefit. The transaction was regarded as being the
sane in substance as if the money had been paid to the
axpayer and he had transmitted it to his creditor. Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716; United
States v. Boston & Maine Railroad, 279 U. S. 732. See,
also, United States v. Mahoning Coal R. Co., 51 F. (2d)
208. The creation of a trust by the taxpayer as the channel for the application of the income to the discharge of
his obligation leaves the nature of the transaction unaltered. Burnet v. Wells, supra. In the present case, the
net income of the trust fund, which was paid to the wife
under the decree, stands substantially on the same footing
as though he had received the income personally and had
been required by the decree to make the payment directly.
We do not regard the provisions of the statutes as to the
taxation of trusts, fiduciaries and beneficiaries, (Revenue
Acts, 1926, §§ 2, 219; 1928,§§ 161, 162) as intended to apply to cases where the income of the trust would otherwise remain, by virtue of the nature and purpose of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S.

trust, attributable to the creator of the trust and accordingly taxable to him. These provisions have appropriate reference to cases where the income of the trust is
no longer to be regarded as that of the settlor, and we
find no warrant for a construction which would preclude
the laying of the tax against the one who through the
discharge of his obligation enjoys the benefit of the income as though he had personally received it.
I The decision in Helvering v. Butterworth, 290 U. S. 365,
is not opposed. There the trust was testamentary and
the only question was with respect to the liability for the
tax as between the trustee and the beneficiary. The
Court observed that "the evident general purpose of the
statute was to tax in some way the whole income of all
trust estates." The decision has no application to a case
where the income is still taxable to the grantor. Nor are
the provisions of the statutes (Revenue Acts, 1926, § 219
(h); 1928, § 167) defining instances in which the grantor
remains taxable, as in case of certain reservations for his
benefit or provisions for the payment of premiums upon
policies of insurance on his life, to be regarded as excluding instances not specified, where in contemplation of
law the income remains in substance that of the grantor.
No such exclusion is expressed and we see no ground for
implying it.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.
BORAX CONSOLIDATED, LTD.

ET AL. V.

LOS

ANGELES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34. Argued October 23, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.
1. Tide lands in California, which had not been granted by Mexico
or subjected to trusts requiring a different disposition, passed to
the State upon her admission to the Union. P. 15.

