OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

280

296 U.S.

Syllabus.

2% for delinquency in payment, bui the record does not
disclose that the nominal penalty arose under a penal
law or is of such a nature as to preclude suit to recover it
outside the state of Wisconsin. See Huntingtonv. Attrill,
146 U. S. 657, 667, et seq. The certificate and question
are framed on the assumption that it is not. The judgment is stated to be for taxes.
The question is answered "yes."
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

think that the question should be answered "no."

DEL VECCHIO

ET AL.

v. BOWERS.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 37. Argued November 13, 14, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.
1. A decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia construing the Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers' Compensation Act-the Act being national in scope and
not confined in its operation to the District of Columbia, where
it applies as a workmen's compensation law-may present a question of general importance which this Court will review on certiorari. P. 285.
2. Section 3 (b) of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act provides that "No compensation shall be payable
if the injury was occasioned solely . . . by the willful intention of the employee to injure or kill himself . . ." Section

20 provides that in any proceeding to enforce a claim for compensation under the Act, "it shall be presumed, in the absence of
substantial evidence to the contrary-

.

.

.

(d) That the in-

jury was not occasioned by the willful intention of the injured
-employee

to

injure

or kill

himself..."

In a proceeding

upon a claim for compensation based on the death of an employee
from a self-inflicted injury, the evidence was equally consistent
with accident and suicide. The deputy commissioner made a finding of suicide and denied an award. Held:

DEL VECCHIO v. BOWERS.
Opinion of th4 Court.

280

(1) The requirement that evidence to overcome the presumption
created by § 20 (d) must be substantial adds nothing to the
general principle that a finding must be supported by evidence.
P. 286.
(2) The presumption does not have the force of evidence in the
claimant's favor, and vanishes from the case upon introduction
by the employer of evidence sufficient to justify a finding of
suicide. P. 286.
(3) Where the evidence in the case permits an inference either
way on the question of suicide, the decision of the deputy commissioner as to the weight of it is conclusive and not'subject to
judicial reiew. P. 287.
(4) The deputy commissioner's finding of suicide in this case
was supported by evidence and his order refusing an award should
not have been set aside. P. 287.
64 App. D. C. 226; 76 F. (2d) 996, reversed.

295 U. S. 728, to review a judgment of the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, which reversed a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District sustaining an order of a deputy commissioner
refusing an award of compensation under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
CERTIORARI,.

Mr. James E. McCabe for petitioners.
Mr. John H. Burnett, with whom Mr. Chapin B. Bau-

man was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This case involves the application of §§ 3 (b) and 20
(d)

of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Com-

pensation Act,' to the respondent's claim of compensation for the death of her husband, Jeff Bowers, who died
'March 4, 1927, c. 509, 44 Stat. 1424, 1426, 1436; U. S. C., Tit. 33,
§§ 903 (b), 920 (d).

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

from a bullet wound inflicted while he was on duty in
Del Vecchio's store in the District of Columbia.2
Evidence adduced at the hearing before a Deputy Compensation Commissioner tended to establish the following
facts. On the morning of September 10, 1931, Bowers
discovered a broken fastening on a door leading into an
alley in the rear of the premises and engaged a carpenter
to make repairs. The latter, while so occupied, hearing
a sound like the bursting of an electric light bulb, followed by groans, entered the store and found Bowers
lying on the floor. Death ensued without recovery of
consciousness. An automatic pistol, owned by the decedent, which he kept in a drawer under a counter, was
found in the partly closed drawer. There was blood in
the drawer and on the counter near it. The bullet had
entered the chest about three and one-half inches to the
left of the median line and one inch above the nipple,
emerged from the back of the body approximately in line
with the point of entrance, and lodged in a paint can
on a shelf behind the drawer about five feet above the
floor. The ejected shell lay some twelve feet to the left
of the drawer where it would naturally fall if the decedent had stood in front of the drawer, between the counter and the shelf, and held the pistol in his right hand
pointing at his chest. Ballistic tests traced shell and bullet to the pistol. There were no identifiable fingerprints
upon the weapon, but an indistinct print of the side of a
finger was discernible. The front of Bowers' shirt bore
grains of unburned powder which, with the condition of
the material about the hole in the garment, indicated
that the muzzle of the weapon had been held within two
or three inches of the body. No rags or other material
were discovered such as would suggest that Bowers was
'The statute is made a workmen's compensation law for the District of Columbia by the Act of May 17, 1928, c. 612, 45 Stat. 600.

DEL VECCHIO V. BOWERS.
280

Opinion of the Court.

cleaning the pistol. The victim of such a wound could
have taken the few steps from the place where the gun
wAs found to that where his body lay.
The parties agree the injury was self-inflicted, but are
in controversy as to whether it was accidental or intentional. According to the respondent's evidence, Bowers
was in good health, of a happy disposition, and in good
financial condition; his aclounts were in order; on the
evening before his death he 1had written to his mother a
cheerful letter in which he stated he would soon write her
again; and the same evening he had promised a friend to
bring him from the store some goods which the frierid desired to purchase. The petitioners adduced evidence that
Bowers had suffered from an infection of the ear and undergone a mastoid operation; about ten days before his
death he visited a specialist to whom he complained of
pain in the ear and headaches which seemed to be increasing. He was advised another mastoid operation might be
necessary and was sent to a hospital for an X-ray examination. He submitted to the examination, which disclosed the presence of pus in the middle ear, but did not
thereafter return to the physician whom he had consulted.
The Deputy Commissioner denied an award of compensation, holding claimant had failed to establish that
Bowers' duties required the use of a weapon and there
was therefore no showing that his injury arose out of his
employment. Upon a bill filed 3 the Supreme Court of
the District set aside the order, holding the keeping of
the pistol in the store, although unknown to the employer, was in furtherance of the latter's interest, the find'As provided by § 21 (b); U. S. C., Tit. 33, § 921 (b): "If not in
accordance with law, a compensation order may be suspended or set
aside, in whole or in part, through injunction proceedings, mandatory
or otherwise, brought by any party in interest against the deputy

commissioner making the order

.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

ing to the contrary was wholly unsupported, and the evidence tended to prove the death was due to accident.
The Court of Appeals concurred in the view that an
award should not have been refused on the ground that
the injury did not arise out of the employment; but as
the case was tried on the theory of suicide, and the Deputy Commissioner had made no finding upon this issue,
remanded the cause for further findings.4
The Deputy Commissioner reconsidered the case upon
the record as originally made before him and, finding the
death suicidal, again refused an award. The respondent

then instituted the present proceeding to have this action
set aiide. The Supreme Court denied relief, but the
Court of Appeals reversed,5 declaring the finding of suicide not to be in accordance with law because, though the
act withholds compensation where an employee willfully
kills himself,' § 20 (a) creates a presumption, in the absence of substantial evidence to the contrary, that the
injury was not willfully inflicted.7 The court found the

evidence as consistent with accident as with suicide, and
said that in such circumstances the presumption required
a finding in favor of the claimant; adding that whatever
measure of proof may generally suffice to support other

findings of a deputy commissioner, a finding of suicide,
in the absence of substantial evidence, is not in accord'Del Vecchio v. Bowers, 62 App. D. C. 327; 67 F. (2d) 751.
'Bowers v. Hoage, 64 App. D. C. 226; 76 F. (2d) 996.

'Section 3 (b); U. S. C., Tit. 33, § 903 (b): "No compensation
shall be payable if the injury was occasioned solely by the intoxication of the employee or by the willful intention of the employee to
injure or kill himself or another."
Section 20 (d); U. S. C., Tit. 33, §,920 (d): " In any proceedings
for the enforcement of a claim for compensation . . .it shall be presumed, in the absence of substantial evidence to the contrary-(d)
That the injury was not occasioned by the willful intention of the
injured employee to injure or kill himself or another."

DEL VECCHIO v. BOWERS.
280

Opinion of the Court.

ance with law. Substantial evidence, said the court, must
be such as to induce conviction; and the evidence upon
which the officer here acted did not reach that standard.
In the view that the case does not fall within Rule 38,
the respondent opposed the issuance of a writ of certiorari.
The objection might be valid if the statute were confined
in its operation to the District of Columbia. We will not
ordinarily review decisions of the United States Court of
Appeals, which are based upon statutes so limited or
which declare the common law of the District. The
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act,
however, is national in scope, and a decision with respect
to its enforcement constitutes a precedent of general application. We therefore granted the writ because of the
important question as to the effect of § 20 (d).
We hold that the decision of the Deputy Commissioner
should not have been annulled. The relevant substantive
section of the act directs that no compensation shall be
paya~le if the injury was occasioned by the willful intention of the employee to injure or kill himself; the
adjective'section creates a presumption that the injury
was nq so occasioned, in the absence of substantial evidence to the contrary. The question is whether, as the
court below thought, the presumption has the quality
of affirmative evidence. The answer must be that it
has not.
When a trier of facts is to be persuaded of the truth
of a disputed proposition, one or the other of the parties,-the proponent or the opponent,-has the burden of
going forward with evidence. In the present instance,
the fact that the wound was self-inflicted permits but
one of two conclusions: either the decedent accidentally
killed himself, or he committed suicide. Considerations
of fairness and experience in human affairs induce factfinding bodies, where there is a balance of probability,, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

adopt a working assumption as the basis of a conclusion,
unless and until the facts are developed by evidence.'
The natural love of life, the comparative infrequency of
suicide as contrasted with accident, and the likelihood
that testimony as to the cause of death would be more
readily available to the employer than to the claimant,
.iustify a presumption, which the law indulges in such a
case, that the death was accidental.' The act under consideration, however, does not leave the matter to be determined by the general principles of law, but announces
its own rule, to the effect that the claimant, in the absence of substantial evidence to the contrary, shall have
the benefit of the presumption of accidental death. The
employer must rebut this prima facies. The statement in
the act that the evidence to overcome the effect of the
presumption must be substantial adds nothing to the well
understood principle that a finding must be supported by
evidence. ° Once the employer has carried his burden by
offering testimony sufficient to justify a finding of suicide,
the presumption falls out of the case. It never had and
cannot acquire the attribute of evidence in the claimant's
favor." Its only office is to control the result where there
is an entire lack of competent evidence. If the employer
alone adduces evidence which tends to support the theory
of suicide, the case must be decided upon that evidence.
Where the claimant offers substantial evidence in opposiThayer, A Preliminary Treatise on Evidence at the Common Law,
pp. 314, 336; Wigmore on Evidence (2d ed.) Vol. 5, §§ 2487-2498,

and Chapter 88.
"Jones, Commentaries on Evidence, (2d ed.), § 256; Von Ette's
Case, 223 Mass. 56; 111 N. E. 696; Manziano v. Public Service Gas
Co., 92 N. J. L. 322; 105 Atl. 484; Humphrey v. Industrial Commission, 285 Ill.
372; 120 N. E. 816; Westman's Case, 118 Me. 133; 106
Atl. 532.
Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 46, 49.
Thayer, ubi supra, pp. 337, 339; Wigmore, ubi supra,
§ 2487 (d).

UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
Syllabus.

280

tion, as was the case here, the issue must be resolved upon
the whole body of proof pro and con; 12 and if it permits
an inference either way upon the question of suicide, the
Deputy Commissioner and he alone is empowered to draw
the inference; his decision as to the weight of the evidence
may not be disturbed by the court. 3
For these reasons we are of opinion the Court of Appeals erred in holding that as the evidence on the issue
of accident or suicide was, in its judgment, evenly balanced, the presumption must tip the scales in favor of
accident. The only matter for decision was whether the
affirmative finding of suicide was supported by evidence.
It is clear that it was so supported and that the court
should therefore not have set aside the Deputy Commissioner's order.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 40., Argued November 14, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. An otherwise valid federal excise tax on the business of selling
liquor is not rendered invalid in the particular case by the fact
that the business is being conducted in violation of the state
law. P. 293.
2. A provision of the Revenue Act of 1926 imposes in addition to
the $25 excise tax laid on retail liquor dealers by R. S., § 3244,
as amended, a "special excise tax" of $1000 on such dealers
when they carry on the business contrary to local state or muni~ipal law, and provides fine and imprisonment for failure to patt
Held:
Tha

C,

13

- ubi supra, p. 346.
sell v. Benson, supra, 46; Voehl v. Indemnity Insurance Co.

288 U. S. 162, 166.

