74

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S

We think the threatened injury to respondent is of too
slight moment to justify a federal court of equity, in the
exercise of its discretion, in according a remedy which
would entail denial of a jury trial, to the petitioners and
withdraw from the jurisdiction of the state courts suits
which could not otherwise be brought into the federal
courts.
Reversed.
BECKER STEEL COMPANY OF AMERICA v. CUMMINGS, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 13.

Argued October 17, 1935.--Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A suit in the District Court by a non-enemy claimant against the
Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer of the United States
to recover the proceeds of property which was seized and disposed
of under the Trading with the Enemy Act, is in substance a suit
against the United States, authorized by § 9 (a) of that statute.
P. 78.
2. The' question whether such a suit may be maintained where the
money demanded had been disbursed before suit begun, held
not a question of the jurisdiction of the District Court, in the
strict sense of its power or authority as a federal court to decide
whether suit would lie, but a question of the proper construction
of the statute, which that court had power to determine. P. 78.
3. Section 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, which provides
the only remedy allowed the non-enemy owner of property seized
by the Alien Property Custodian upon an erroneous determination
of enemy ownership, must be construed to avoid doubts of the
constitutionality which would arise if the remedy were inadequate.
P. 79.
4. The implication that by the appropriation of private property to
public use the United States intends to make just compensation
must enter into the construction of a statute giving to a non-enemy
a remedy for the seizure of his property as a war measure. P. 79.
5. Only compelling language. in a statute will be construed as withdrawing or curtailing' the privilege of suit against the United

BECKER CO. v. CUMMINGS.
74

Opinion of the Court.

States in recognition of an obligation imposed by the Constitution.
P. 80.
6. In a suit in the District Court under § 9 (a). of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, a non-enemy, upon establishing his claim
/ to property that was erroneously seized and sold by the Alien
Property Custodian, is entitled to judgment upon the claim even
though the proceeds are no longer "held" by the Custodian or
Treasurer. Escher v. Woods, 281 U. S. 379. P. 80.
7. Section 7 (c) of the Act provides that, in the event of sale of
the property by the Custodian, the claimant's remedy shall be
limited to and enforced against the "net proceeds" received and
"held" by the Custodian or the Treasurer. Held that "net proceeds" means no more than gross proceeds of the sale less charges
which may rightly be deducted; and the limitation of the remedy
to the net proceeds "held" by the Custodian or Treasurer refers,
not to the net proceeds so held at the moment of entry of the
decree, but to the proceeds so held at any time and not lawfully
disbursed. P. 81.
75 F. (2d) 1005, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of
a decree of the District Court (10 F. Supp. 343)- dis-

missing a 'suit against the Attorney General, as, Alien
Property Custodian, and the Treasurer of the
States.

Jnited

Mr. E. Crosby Kindlebergerfor petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom Solicitor General'Reed, Assistant Attorney General Mac-

Lean, and Messrs. Wendell Berge and Paul A. Sweeney
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit against the Attorney General, as Alien
Property Custodian, and the Treasurer of the United
States, brought in the District Court for Southern New
York under § 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act,

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

40 Stat. 411, as amended, 41 Stat. 977, 42 Stat. 1511,1 to
recover a balance of the proceeds of sale of certain shares
of stock seized and- sold by the Alien Property Custodian.
An earlier suit brought for the same purpose was dismissed
on the ground that the attempted revivor against the then
Alien Property Custodian and Treasurer was too late.
66 F. (2d) 497; cf. Fix v. Philadelphia Barge Co., 290
U. S. 530.
The complaint alleges, among other things not now
material, that the petitioner, owner of the shares seized,
1

Relevant portions of the Trading with the Enemy Act are:

"See. 7 (c) . . . The sole relief and remedy of any person having
any claim to any money or other property heretofore or hereafter
conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to the Alien
Property Custodian, or required so to be, or seized by him shall be
that provided by the terms of this Act, and in the event of sale or
other disposition of such property by the Alien Property Custodian,
shall be limited to and enforced against the net proceeds received
therefrom and held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the
Treasurer of the United States." [40 Stat. 1020.]
"Sec. 9 (a). That any person not an enemy or ally of enemy
claiming any interest, right, or title in any money or other property which may have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered,
or paid to the Alien Property Ctistodian or seized by him hereunder
and held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States, or to
whom any debt may be owing from an enemy or ally of enemy whose
property or any part thereof shall have been conveyed, transferred,
assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized
by him hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of the United
States may file with the said Custodian a notice of his claim under
oath and in such form and containing such particulars as the said
custodian shall require; and the President, if application is made
therefor by the claimant, may order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery to said claimant of the money or other
property so held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United States,, or of the interest therein to which the
President shall determine said claimant is entitled: Provided, That
no such order by the President shall bar any person from the prosecution of any suit at law or in equity against the claimant to establish any right, title, or interest which he may have in such money or

BECKER CO. v. CUMMINGS.
74

Opinion of the Court.

was not an enemy alien; that the Alien Property Custodian, predecessor in office of the Attorney General now
acting in that capacity, sold the stock for $20,000, the balance of which, after paying expenses of the sale amounting to $3,887.84, he turned over to the petitioner. Judgment is demanded for the amount paid out as expenses.
The district court granted a motion to dismiss the bill
of complaint for want of jurisdiction. 10 F. Supp. 343.
Its order was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit on the opinion of the district court. 75
F. (2d) 1005. This Court granted certiorari because of
the nature and importance of the question involved and
to resolve an alleged conflict of the decision below with
that of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in
Vowinckel v. Sutherland, 24 F. (2d) 196.
other property. If the President shall not so order within sixty days
after the filing of such application or if the claimant shall have filed
the notice as above required and shall have made no application to
the President, said claimant may institute a suit in equity in the

Supreme Court of the District of Columbia or in the district court of
the United States for the district in which such claimant resides, or,
if a corporation, where it has its principal place of business (to which

suit the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the United
States, as the case may be, shall be made a party defendant), to
establish the interest, right, title, or debt so claimed, and if so established the court shall order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery to said claimant of the money or other property so held by the Alien Property Custodianor by the Treasurer
of the United States or the interest therein to which the court shall
determine said claimant is entitled. If suit shall be so instituted,
then such money or property shall be retained in the custody of
the Alien Property Custodian, or in the Treasury of the United States,
as provided in this Act, and until any final judgment or decree which
shall be entered in favor of the claimant shall be fully satisfied by
payment or conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery by the defendant, or, by the Alien Property Custodian, or Treasurer of the
United States on order of the court, or until final judgment or decree
shall be entered against the claimant or suit otherwise terminated."
[42 Stat. 1511.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

The trial court held, as is conceded here, that the suit
brought against officers of the government in their official
capacities is in substance a suit again st the United States
authorized, if at all, by § 9 (a) of the Trading with the
Enemy Act. See Banco Mexicano v. Deutsche Bank, 263
U. S. 591; Henkels v. Sutherland, 271 U. S.298. That
section provides that the non-enemy claimant "may institute a suit in equity . . . in the district court . . . to

establish the interest, right, title . . . so claimed," and
that "if so established the court shall order the payment,
conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery to said
claimant of the money or other property so held by the
Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the
United States." These provisions the district court construed as granting the privilege of suit to a non-enemy
only when the money or property demanded is "held"
by the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the
United States at the time of suit, and concluded that it
lacked jurisdiction to entertain the suit since the money.
demanded had been disbursed before suit.
The Government urges that these clauses must be read
with the requirement of § 9 (a) that after suit instituted
the money or property claimed shall be retained in the
custody of the Alien Property Custodian or of the Treasurer of the United States until final judgment, and also
with the provision in § .7. (c) that the remedy.given by the
act "in the event of sale or other disposition of such
property by the Alien Property Custodian shall be limited
to and enforced against the net proceeds received therefrom and held by the Alien Property Custodian or by
the Treasurer."
The question thus presented is not one of jurisdiction
of the district court in the strict sense of its power or
authority as a federal court to decide whether the suit
would lie. Cf. Sperry Gyroscope Co. v. Arma Engineering
Co., 271 U. S. 232; Smyth v. Asphalt Belt Ry. Co., 267

BECKER CO. v. CUMMINGb.
74

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 326; Timken Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 274 U. S.
181, 185; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291,
305. It had power to determine whether the suit was
one permitted by the statute and the only question presented now is whether its decision is erroneous.
Section 7 of the Trading with the Enemy Act conferred
on the Alien Property Custodian authority summarily to
seize property upon his determination that it was enemy
owned, and such a seizure was lawful even though the
determination were erroneous. Central Union Trust Co.
v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554; Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S.
239; Commercial Trust Co. v. Miller, 262 U. S. 51. But
in thus authorizing the seizure of property as a war measure Congress did not attempt the confiscation of the
property of citizens or alien friends. See Henkels v. Sutherland, supra, 301. Instead by § 9 (a) it gave to the nonenemy owner the right to maintain a suit for the recovery
of the seized property or its proceeds, and at the same
time, by the all-inclusive language of § 7 (c) it denied
to him any other remedy.
The seizure and detention which the statute commands
and the denial of any remedy except that afforded by § 9
(a) would be of. doubtful constitutionality if the remedy
given were inadequate to secure to the non-enemy owner
either the return of his property or compensation for it.
See Henkels v. Sutherland, supra; Central *Union Trust
Co. v. Garvan, supra, 566, 569; Stoehr v. Wallace, supra,
246. Plainly inadequate would be a remedy which could
be availed of only while the Custodian or Treasurer continued to retain possession of the seized property or its
proceeds, and which would be lost whenever he disposed
of the property and proceeds, whether lawfully or not.
In determining whether the remedy given is thus restricted it must be presumed that Congress intended that
it should be constitutionally sufficient. The implication
that by the appropriation of private p'operty to public

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

use the United States undertakes to make just compensation for it, see United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 471;
Jacobs v. United States, 290 U. S. 13; Perry v. United
States, 294 U. S. 330; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United
States, 265 U. S. 106, must likewise enter into the construction of a statute giving to a non-enemy a remedy for
the seizure of his property as a war measure. Only compelling language in the congressional enactment will be
construed as withdrawing or curtailing the privilege of
suit against the government granted in recognition of an
obligation imposed by the Constitution. See Lynch v.
United States, 292 U. S. 571, 586, 587; Russian Volunteer
Fleet v. United States, 282 U. S. 481, 489. Hence § 9 (a)
must be broadly construed to give effect to its remedial
purpose, see Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243, 248;
Behn, Meyer & Co. v. Miller, 266 U. S. 457, 471, 472.
In the present state of the record it is unnecessary to
inquire whether the effect of the act is to sanction in every
case the sale of the property of a non-enemy giving him
recourse only to the proceeds of sale. See SielckenSchwarz v. American Factors, 60 F. (2d) 43, 44. That
question was not raised or considered below. The issue
now presented is much narrower, whether the failure of
the Custodian to retain possession of the seized property
or its proceeds precludes all inquiry as to the propriety
of the disposition which he has made of them. Such, we
think, is not the effect of the provisions in §§ 7 and 9,
construed in the light of constitutional obligations which
we must assume Congress did not intend to ignore. Section 9 (a) is specific in permitting the non-enemy claimant to institute a suit to establish the interest, right or
title claimed. "If so established" the court in terms is directed to order the satisfaction of the claim from property "held" by the Custodian or Treasurer. But these
words do not deny the right to establish the claim or to

BECKER CO. v. CUMMINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

74

enter judgment upon it when established, even though
the property is no longer held by the Custodian. Directions that the money or property be retained and used for
satisfying the decree in a pending suit are not the equivalent of a command that the suit be dismissed if the property is not so retained. If they were we should be forced
to the conclusion, although the court below did not go so
far, that -the claim could be defeated by the waste or
dissipation of the seized property by the Custodian at
any time before judgment, after suit brought, as well
as before.
Nor does the provision in § 7 that the remedy in the
event of sale is to be limited to the net proceeds of sale
"received therefrom and held" by the Custodian preclude inquiry whether amounts expended were lawfully
charged against the gross proceeds. Escher v. Woods, 281
U. S.379. "Net proceeds of sale" thus means no more
than gross proceeds less charges which may be rightly
deducted and we think that the direction that the remedy
is to be limited to net proceeds "held" by the Custodian
must be taken, not in the narrow and restricted sense as
indicating only the proceeds retained by him at the precise "moment of entering the decree, but as signifying
proceeds held by him at any time and not lawfully disbursed. Such a construction does no violence to the language of the act and conforms to and, is supported by its
dominant purpose, often recognized by this Court,, to give
to citizens and alien friends an adequate remedy for invasions of their property rights in the exercise of the war
powers of the Government. Any other construction by
denying such a remedy would raise grave doubts of.
the constitutionality of the statute as applied to
non-enemies.
In Escher v. Woods, supra, the Custodian had paid the
proceeds of sale of non-enemy property into the treasury
33682'-36-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

of the United States after deducting 2% which he had
paid into a fund to be used for paying the expenses of
his office during the period of administration; expenses
not shown to be rightly chargeable against the proceeds
of sale. In allowing recovery of the amount improperly
deducted the right to recover was not thought to turn on
whether the expenses had or had not been in fact paid out
by 4he Custodian. This Court placed its decision on the
broad ground that under the statute the unlawfulness of
the charges made by the custodian against the proceeds
of sale of non-enemy owned property is open to judicialinquiry and that the limitation of recovery to net proceeds
did not permit an unauthorized outlay to be deducted
from the proceeds of sale.
We intimate no opinion as to the lawfulness of the deducted expenditures. We decide only that the right to
challenge them is not lost because they have been made.
We do not pass upon the validity of the defense of the
Statute of Limitations and others, the possibility of which
is suggested by the allegations of the bill of complaint.
Even if raised by the government's motion to dismiss for
want of "jurisdiction of the persons of the defendants or
of the subject matter of the action" they were not considered below or urged here. Whether, in a suit brought
under the Trading with the Enemy Act against the Alien
Property Custodian, these defenses go to the jurisdiction,
as has been held in the case of the defense of the Statute
of Limitations in a suit against the United States under
the Tucker Act, see Compagnie Generale v. United States,
51 F. (2d) 1053, 1056; cf. Finn v. United States, 123 U. S.
-227, or whether they go only to the merits, are questions
which have never been decided. They have not been
argued here. We think we should not undertake to decide
them in the present posture of the case. Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499, 512, 513.
Reversed.

BECKER CO. v. CUMMINGS.
74

1RoEnr, J., dissenting.

Myt. JusTIcE ROBERTS, dissenting.
Although I do not disagree with the opinion of the
Court respecting the meaning of the word "held" as
found in § 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, I
think we should not decide the point in this case. The
order of the District Judge dismissing the action for want
of jurisdiction was right notwithstanding he may have.
been in error as to the necessity of actual possession of
the property or its proceeds by the Government's representatives at the date of suit.
The action. is clearly one against the United States 1 and
consent to be sued evidenced by Act of Congress is essential to jurisdiction. The question is whether such consent has been given. Whatever view may be taken of the
nature of the action as disclosed by petitioner's pleading
the answer must be in the negative.
The Government has consented to be sued as is evidenced by § 9 (a). It appears by petitioner's own declaration, however, that it availed itself of the privilege of
suit thus granted and recovered a judgment for the full
amount of the proceeds of the stock which had been seized
by the Alien Property Custodian. The present action is a
second suit to recover another judgment for a portion of
the same money embraced in the former judgment. I
fail to find any indication in the Act that Congress intended to afford a claimant two suits and two judgments
for the same moneys.
Entirely apart from the provisions of the Tradiig with
the Enemy Act, however, the District Court is without
jurisdiction to permit a second action for a sum admittedly embraced in a judgment which is of record in that
court.
'Banco Mexicano v. Deutsche Bank, 263 U. S. 591, 602; Von
Bruning v. Sutherland, 58 App. D. C. 258; 29 F. (2d) 631; Henkes
v. Sutberland 271 U. S. 298, 30'..

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
' ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

296 U. S.

Suit cannot be maintained under the Tucker Act as
amended.2 The six year limitation on suits against the
Government is not merely a defence to be pleaded or
waived but is jurisdictional.' The sale of the property by
the Custodian and the recovery of the first judgment for
the proceeds of the sale both occurred more than six years
prior to the institution of this action. Moreover, the express provision of § 7 of the Trading with the Enemy Act,
that the sole relief and remedy of any person having a
claim under the Act shall be that afforded by the Act, precludes a suit for the property or the proceeds of it under
the Tucker Act.'
The complaint asserts that the judgment recovered for
the entire proceeds of the sale of plaintiff's stock has been
formally released and satisfied. The satisfaction is said
to have been obtained by duress. If the present proceeding be viewed as an action on the judgment the satisfaction is a bar to its maintenance; if treated as an appeal to
the equity powers of the Court to set aside the release
and satisfaction the Tucker Act is not a consent to the
prosecution of such an action in the District Court.5
I think it idle to remand the case to the District Court
merely because of an erroneous reason assigned in support
of the order of dismissal, since the suit will again have to
be dismissed for the lack of jurisdiction. I should, therefore, affirm the order of the District Court.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
2

U. S. Code, Tit. 28,

concurs in this opinion.

§ 41 (20).

1Ford v. United States, 116 U. S. 213; Finn v. United States, 123
U. S. 227; United States v. Wardwell, 172 U. S. 48; Campagnie
Generale v. United States, 51 F. (2d) 1053, 1056.
4Compare
Johnson v. United States Shipping Board, 280 U. S.
320; Mara v. United States, 54 F. (2d) 397.
5 United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1; compare Holmes v. United
States, 78 Fed. 513; New England Furniture & Carpet Co. v. United
States, 2 F. Supp. 650.

