98

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
296 U. S.

Syllabus.

ation. The transfer was complete at the time of the creation of the trust. There remained no interest in the
grantor. She reservedno power in herself alone to revoke,
to alter or to amend. Under the revenue act then in force
the transfer was not taxable as intended to take effect in
possession or in enjoyment at her death. Reinecke v.
Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339. If § 302 (d) of the
Act of 1926 could fairly be considered as intended to
apply in-the instant case its operation would violate the
Fifth Aiendment. Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR.
JUSTICE CARDOZO concur in the result on the ground last
stated in the opinion.

WHITE, FORMER

COLLECTOR

REVENUE, v. POOR

ET AL.,

OF INTERNAL

EXECUTORS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 36. Argued Ocober 16, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.
Decedent, in her lifetime, conveyed property to herself and two others
as trustees upoi a trust which was terminable by joint action of
the three trustees but which she, herself, reserved no power to
modify. She resigned as trustee; but later, upon the resignation
of her successor, was reappointed under a clause of the trust
instrunent providing that such vacancies could be filled by the
other trustees with the approval of the beneficiaries. Held:
1. That the power thus acquired to participate in terminating
the trust, not being in any sense a power reserved by her in the
trust -instrument, was not a power "to alter, amend or revoke,"
within the meaning of § 302 (d), Revenue Act, 1926. P. 101.
2. If that section, enacted after the date of the transfer, were
deemed applicable, it would violate the Fifth Amendment. Helvering v. Helmholz, ante, p. 93. P. 102.
75 F. (2d)- 35, affirmed.

WHITE v. POOR.
98

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIOR.RI, 295 U. S. 726; to review a judgment affirming a judgment against the Collector in a suit to recover money exacted as part of an estate tax.
Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry LeBaron Sampson, with whom Messrs.
Alexander Wheeler and Edwin A. Howes were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents questions similar to those in Helvering v. Helmholz, ante, p. 93.
In 1919 Adelaide J. Sargent conveyed property to three
trustees, who were herself, Arthur H. Sargent (her son),
and a third person not connected with the family. Contemporaneously the trustees executed a declaration: of
trust by the terms of which they were to pay one-half
the net income to Mrs. Sargent during her life and the
other half, until her death, and after that event the whole
in equal shares, to such of her three children as should
be living at the time of each payment, and to the appointees of any deceased child, and in default of appointment, to the living 'ssue of a deceased child. The trust
was to terminate upon the death of the last survivor of the
settlor and her three children, and thereupon the corpus
was to be divided in specified shares amongst the issue,
next of kin, or appointees of the children. Each child
was given a general power of appointment by will over
one-third of the principal. -Mrs. Sargent died January
22, 1931, leaving her three children to survive her. Her
will was probated and the respondents are her executors.
The'declaration of trust contains a power to terminate, in
these- words:

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

"This trust may be terminated at any time either as to
the whole or as to any part of the property held in trust
hereunder, by the person or persons who shall then be
trustees hereunder, such termination to be eyidenced by
a written declaration signed, sealed and acknowledged by
them and duly recorded in the Registry of Deeds for the
County of Suffolk, setting forth specifically the property
as to which such termination is to take effect, and in that
event the trusts declared hereunder shall as to such property be at an end and such property. shall be paid over
and conveyed, free and discharged of all trusts, to the said
Adelaide J. Sargent, if she be then living, and if she be not
then living one share shall be paid over and conveyed to
each of her children who shall then be living, and a like
share shall be paid over and conveyed to the appointees
by will of each of her children who shall then have died
making such appointment, or failing such appointment,
to the issue of such deceased child then living, such issue
taking by right of representation."
No power was reserved by Mrs. Sargent to modify the
terms of the trust, and the recited power was never
exercised.
The agreement directed that if any trustee should die,
resign or be unable to act, a successor should be appointed
by the surviving trustees by a written instrument approved by the then living children of Mrs. Sargent. In
1920 the settlor, resigned as trustee and a daughter was
appointed to fill the vacancy. After serving for one year
she resigned 'and Mrs. Sargent was appointed to fill the
vacancy thus occasioned and continued as a trustee until
her death. The decedent's son, who was a trustee, had a
vested interest in an undivided share of the income and
a power to appoint by will his share of the income and
one-third of the corpus.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled that, the
value of the trust principal should be included in the gross

WHITE v. POOR.
98

Opinion of the Court.

estate. The respondents paid the tax under protest and
filed a claim for refund, which the Commissioner rejected.
They brought suit in the District Court, -which held the
transfer did not come within § 302 (c) of the Revenue
Act of 1926, as one made in contemplation of death, and
was not taxable under § 302 (d). 1 The court also ruled
that to impose an excise tax on the transfer by a statute
enacted after the transfer was complete would constitute
a taking of property without due process in violation of
the Fifth Amendment.
The petitioner appealed from a judgment in favor of
the respondents, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that the power in question was not a
power to alter, amend or revoke within the meaning of
2
§ 302 (d).
As in Helvering v. Helmholz, supra, the declaration of
trust in this case, technically speaking, contained no power
to revoke, amend or alter the trust. What the instrument
did was to make it possible for the trustees acting jointly
to terminate the trust at any time. The petitioner insists
that as Mrs. Sargent was one of the trustees named in the
declaration the power to terminate, which he views as the
equivalent of a power to alter, amend or revoke, was,
strictly speaking, lodged in the settlor and two other persons. He says, therefore, that these facts make the transaction taxable under § 302 (d). The respondents reply
that if the section be strictly construed it applies only to a
transfer where the enjoymentthereof is subject to a power
to "alter, amend or revokes" and that the instant transfer
was subject to no such power, but to a power to terminate.
The circumstances about to be mentioned render it unnecessary to consider either contention.
. Mrs. Sargent resigned as a trustee in 1920-and was succeeded by her daughter, one of the beneficiaries. .When,
*'8F. Supp. 995.
275 F. (2d) 35.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S.

a year later, the daughter resigned a new trustee could be
appointed only by the written nomination of the two remaining trustees with the approval of all the beneficiaries
of the trust. By such concerted action Mrs. Sargent was
again-appointed a trustee. She then acquired any power
for the future to participate.in a termination of the trust,
solely by virtue of the action of the other trustees and the
beneficiaries and not in any sense by virtue of any power
reserved to herself as settlor in the original declaration of
trust. We think, therefore, that neither technically nor
in substance does the power to terminate as it existed from
1921 to the date of Mrs. Sargent's death fall within
. 302 (d).
What has been said in the Helmholz case requires, a ruling that the section, if held to apply to this transfer,
offends the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE
JUSTICE CARIDoZo concur in the result.

and MR.

McFEELY v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 24, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.
1. The meaning of the term Capital Assets detned in the Revenue
Act of 1921, § 206 -(a) (6), as property "acquired and held" by
it6' taxpayer for more than two years, was not changed by omisTogether with -No. 110,. United States v. First National Bank of
Boston et al., and No. 111, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Lee, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit; No. 439, Rand v. Helvering, Commissidner of Internal Revenue, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit;
*

