OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

The foregoing facts bring the case clearly within our
decision just announced in Bingham v. United States,
ante, p. 211; and the judgment of the court below is
.accordingly
Reversed.
,ALEXANDER

ET

AL.,

RECEIVERS, v. HILLMAN
ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO T-HE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 15 and 16.

Argued October 17, 18, 1935.-Decided December
9, 1935.

In a suit in the District Court in which receivers were appointed
to collect and distribute the assets of a corporation, claims were
filed by individuals who as directors and officers had controlled
and dominated the corporation's affairs, and by other companies,
also controlled and used by them. In response to the claims, the
receivers filed in the same court an ancillary bill, separately numbered but not praying process, in which they set up counterclaims
for the value of assets of the corporation which they averred the
individual claimants fraudulently and in violation of their duties
as officers and directors had, through complicated transactions,
converted to the use of themselves and the two corporate claimants. Upon being served by mail with copies of the ancillary bill
and an order directing them to plead to it, the -claimants appeared
specially and moved to quash upon the ground that they were
inhabitants of another State, within the purview of § 51, Jud.
Code. Held:
1. The court had jurisdiction of the subject matter-the claims and
counterclaims. P. 237.
2. The ancillary bill, while in form not inappropriate for the commencement of a suit, served as a pleading in the main suit, to put
the claimants to proof of their claims and to assert the right of
the receivers to affirmative relief- P. 239.
*The

respondents in this case were: J. II. Hillman, Jr., A. B.

Sheets, Thomas Watson, Hillman Coal & Coke Co., and Hecla Coal
and Coke Co.

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Statement of the Case.

3. Causes of action arising from the derelictions of officers and directors of corporations, such as those alleged, are cognizable in
equity for the reason that the receivers have no adequate remedy
at layw and also because property was obtained fraudulently and
therefore cannot in equity and good conscience be retained. P. 240.
4. Both the individual claimants and the corporate claimants, alleged to have been their tools, are to be dealt with just as if they
were technically trustees for creditors and stockholders. P. 240.
5. Judicial Code, § 51, in the provision that "no civil suit shall be
brought in any district court against any person by any original
process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he
is an inhabitant . . ." is inapplicable, since the claimants were
not summoned, but by presenting their claims waived the privilege conferred by that provision and subjected themselves to all
the consequences that attach to an appearance. P. 240.
0. The provision of Equity Rule 30 with respect to counterclaims in
answers does not cover counterclaims to claims filed against receivers; but the omission so to extend the rule gives rise to no
implication that receivers may not assert and enforce, against those
who appear and demand part of the res, counterclaims for portions of the receivership estate that they wrongfully took and still
withhold. The right of the receivers to have affirmative relief in
the receivership court is supported by the same, or at least similar
and equally strong, reasons as those that constitute the foundation of the rule. P. 241.
7. As a general rule, equity, having jurisdiction of parties to a controversy, will decide all matters in dispute between them and decree complete relief. P. 242.
8. Nothing is more clearly a part of the main suit in this case than
recovery of all that belongs to the res; the matters in controversy
may be tried and determined more conveniently in the receivership court than elsewhere. Pp. 242, 243.
75 F. (2d) 451, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 725, to review a decree modifying
a decree of the District Court which dismissed for want

of jurisdiction over the persons of the respondents an
ancillary bill brought by receivers of a corporation setting
up counterclaims against three individuals and two corporations who had presented claims.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

296 U.S.

Mr. David A. Reed, with whom Messrs. Edwin W.
Smith, Win. M. Robinson, E. C. Higbee, and Arthur S;
Dayton were on the brief, for petitioners.
A: District Court administering a receivership estate has
authority to adjudicate all claims respecting the res.
White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36; Peck v. Elliott, 79 Fed. 10;
Pope v. L. N. A. & C. Ry. Co., 173 U. S. 573.
Respondents, by appearing before the special master
and proving their claims to participate in the receivership
res, became actors in the cause and thereby submitted to
the jurisdiction of the court. Wabash Western Ry. Co.
v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271, 278; Merchants Heat & Light Co.
v. Clow & Sons, 204 U. S. 286, 290; Fisher v. Shropshire,
147 U. S. 133, 145; Commercial E. S. Co. v.-Curtis, 288
Fed. 657; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47; Stewart v' Dunham, 115 U. S. 61, 64; Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co.
v. Concrete Steel Bridge Co., 37 F. (2d) 695, 701; Dailey
Motor Co. v. Reaves, 184 N. C. 260; Fulton v. Ramsey,
67 W. Va. 321; Arnold & Ruffner v. Casner, 22 W. Va.
444; Bilmyer v. Sherman, 23 W. Va. 656; Wyatt v. Smith,
25 W. Va. 813; Bent v. Read, 82 W. Va. 680; Newman v.
Moore, 4 Ky. 147, 148.
"Where a court of equity has obtained jurisdiction over
some portion ofi .a controversy, it may and will in general
proceed to decide the whole issues and award complete
relief even where the rights of parties are strictly legal
and the final remedy granted is of the kind which might
Hartford Accident &
-be conferred by a court of law."
Indemnity Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273 U. S. 207, 217.
It is the spirit and intendment of Equity Rule 30 that
,when affirmative relief is sought in an equity proceeding,
whether by bill or other appropriate pleading, the claimant submits'himself to the jurisdiction of the court for
•the adjudication of equitable counterclaims, irrespective
-of the transactions out of which such counterclaims arose,
to te end that the whole of the controversy may be de-

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Argument for Respondents.

termined in a single proceeding. American Mills Co. v.
American Surety Co., 260 U. S. 360, 364; Buffalo Specialty Co. v. Van Cleef, 217 Fed. 91, 93; Young v. McNealEdwards Co., 283 U. S. 398; Chicago & N. W. R. Co. v.
Lindell, 281 U. S. 14, 17; Partridgev. Phoenix Mutual
Life Ins. Co., 15 Wall. 573.
The counterclaims against respondents are cognizable in
equity and their adjudication by a court in equity does
not deprive respondents of any right to trial by jury.
Hornorv. Henning, 93 U. S. 228, 231; Jackson v. Ludeling,
21 Wall. 616, 625; Wardell v. Union Pacific R. Co., 103
U. S. 651; Clews v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461; Jones v.
Missouri-Edison Electric Co., 144 Fed. 765; Wheeler v.
Abilene Nat. Bank Bldg. Co., 159 Fed. 391; Davis v.
Pearce, 30 F. (2d) 85; Moon Motor Car Co. v. Moon, 58
F. (2d) 90; Wile v. Burns Bros., 2 F. Supp. 950; Bosworth
v. Allen, 168 N. Y. 157.
Mr. Alexander J. Barron, with whom Messrs. Edward
W. Knight, George E. Alter, and Thomas B. Jackson were
on the brief, for respondents.
The fundamental issue in this case is not one of the
general powers and jurisdiction of a federal court in a receivership in equity. The issue is one of venue in a civil
suit brought by the receivers of such a court. The aim is
to secure personal decrees for the payment of money
against non-resident defendants who. appear specially
to raise the question of jurisdiction, asserting their right
under§ 51 of the Judicial Code to be sued in the district whereof they are inhabitants. Barfield v. Zenith
Tire & Rubber Co., 9 F. (2d) 204; Schmitt v. Lamb, 43
F. (2d) 770, 772.
Petitioners call the suit an ancillary one, but the issues
and parties are not the same as the issues and parties
in the primary cause. Respondents were not parties to
that cause, and the claims asserted against them here are
33682*-86--15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

new and independent claims. A contested claim is not
a part of the receivership res, but the subject of a ple-"
nary action, which the court has no inherent power to adjudicate without first obtaining jurisdiction over the person. Hence the bill of complaint here is an original bill as
against the respondents, requiring original process. Merriam Co. v. Saalfield, 241 U. S. 22; Smith v. Woolfolk,
115 U. S. 143, 148; Bowen v. Christian, 16 Fed. 729.
Other authorities in point are: Shainwald v. Davis, 69
Fed. 701; Gregory v. Pike, 79 Fed. 520; Manning v. Berdan, 132 Fed. 382; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 807;
Hart v. Wiltsee, 19 F. (2d) 903; Wood v. New York &
N. E. R. Co., 61 Fed. 236; Railroad Credit Corp. v. Fruit
Growers Express Co., 71 F. (2d) 218, 219; Simkins Federal Practice, Rev. ed., 756.
The causes of igetion now alleged are not only the acts
of fraud and mismanagement averred in the former bill,
but are based on other actions not theretofore complained
of. The suits were brought by different parties complainant against different parties defendant, and no party in
either suit was made a party to the other.
The proving of claims before the special master does
not make the claimant a party to the original cause. International Banking Corp. v. Lynch, 269 Fed. 242, 246;
Lucey Mfg. Corp. v. Morlan, 14 F. (2d) 920; Elkins v.
First National Bank, 43 F. (2d) 777; Clark, Receivers,
Vol. 1, c. 18, §§ 532 (c), 533 (c); Continental Trust Co.
v. Toledo, St. L. & K. C. R. Co., 82 Fed. 642.
The question at bar is whether respondents being required, at the risk of forfeiting their rights, to comply with
the invitation and order of court and present their claims
in the receivership proceeding, by so doing became parties
to the original cause and thereby gave the court jurisdiction over them to adjudicate the causes of action thereafter brought against them by the so-called ancillary bill.
The cases cited are pertinent because they define in law

ALEXANDER v. HILLMfAN.
222

Argument for Respondents.

the status of one who files a claim with a receiver or
special master in a federal equity receivership and hold
that by so doing he does not become a party generally to
the cause but merely a party pro hac vice.
The same rule holds in bankruptcy. Fitch v. Richardson, 147 Fed. 197; Tate v. Brinser, 226 Fed. 878.
Respondents by filing their proofs of claim in the receivership proceedings have not waived their personal
privilege under § 51 of the Judicial Code. This Court has
repeatedly held that the right of a defendant to be sued
in his own district in any civil suit is absolute. Munter v.
Weil Corset Co., 271 U. S. 279; Pacific Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Tompkins, 101 Fed. 539, cert. den., 179 U. S. 683.
Waiver must arise out of some act or thing done by him
which evidences his clear intention to submit himself to
the jurisdiction of the court wherein the suit is brought,
such as a general appearance, a plea to the merits, or
some other unequivocal act by which he consents to an
adjudication by the court of the merits of the suit wherein
he is named defendant. Citizens S. & T. Co. v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 205 U. S. 46; Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read,
229 U. S. 31; Butterworth v. Hill, 114 U. S. 128; Camp v.
Gress, 250 U. S. 308; Grable v. Killits, 282 Fed. 185, 195;
Dahlgren v. Pierce, 263 Fed. 841, 846; Stonega C. & C.
Co. v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 139 Fed. 271; Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co. v' Tompkins, 101 Fed. 539.
Respondents presented their claims on "the invitation"
of the court and for its "information" and guidance in the
proper distribution of the proceeds of the assets in its custody; in compliance with an order which warned them that
if they failed to present their claims before the master,
they would be barred from thereafter asserting the same.
The privilege exercised in this instance was not one asserted by claimants but one which the court 'itself had
extended to them and which this Coar . in most impressive language, has declared shall not be taken advantage

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

of for the purpose of oppressing or harassing the one to
whom it is extended. Stewart v. Ramsey, 242 U. S. 128,
129 et seq.; Parker v. Hotchkiss, Fed. Cas. No. 10739;
Read v. Neff, 207 Fed. 890, 891.
Unless a person, by filing a claim with a receiver, makes
himself a party to the original cause, and enters a general appearance not only in that cause but in any and all
other suits which the receivers may thereafter see fit to
institute against him in that court, we submit that Equity
Rule 30 has no application to the cases at bar. For in
any other event the sole purpose of invoking the Rule
would be to defeat the express provisions of § 51 of the
Judicial Code and the rights asserted thereunder by the
non-resident respondents. "Rule 30 is without force as
against conflicting statutory provisions." General Electric Co. v. Marvel Rare Metals Co., 287 U. S. 430, 434.
Washington Southern Navigation Co. v. Baltimore &
PhiladelphiaSteamboat Co., 263 U. S. 629, 635.
A reference to a master for the purpose of determining
the application of the proceeds realized upon the winding up of a corporation is merely a part and only a part
of the process of execution of the final decree in the original suit, and the filing of claims which must be filed to
preserve the claimant's rights, whether his claims are
legal or equitable, presents no analogy to the bringing of
a suit in equity by the suitor in the forum of his choice.
Rule 30 must be read in connection with Rule 25 and
succeeding rules. Rule 30 confines itself to prescribing
the nature of the answer to the bill, the form of which
is prescribed in Rule 25.
Rule 30 is confined to prescribing the form and contents
of an answer and counterclaim filed to an original bill in
equity where the bill and answer form part of one and
the same suit.
The application of Rule 30 contended for by petitioners,
rather than tending to simplification would result in con-

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Argument for Respondents.

fusion. In the cases at bar, five separate and independent
claims have been presented by respondents. The bill of
complaint which petitioners would treat as an answer and
counterclaim joins all the respondents as defendants.
It presents four separate causes of action, none of which
are common to all of the defendants named.
To hold that said proofs of claim are bills in equity and
permit, the bill of complaint to be treated as an answer
and counterclaim thereto, would seem to be in direct
violation of Equity Rule 26.
The prompt and orderly administration of an equity
receivership is not impeded by the necessity of resorting
to a court of competent jurisdiction for prosecuting claims
of the receivers against others.
A decision of the question whether the alleged causes
of actioni contained in the bill, or any of them, constitute
grounds of actions at law or are cognizable in equity, is
not necessary to the decision of the fundamental question
involved, which is one of venue.
In the case of each of the corporate respondents, the
cause of action, if an equitable one, must be sustained on
other grounds than breach of trust by a fiduciary.
The claim against Hecla is exclusively one at law to
recover money damages.
The claim against Hillman Company is nothing but an
action at law to recover the difference between the
amounts charged Tower Hill for expenses and a reasonable sum.
No decision of this Court has been found which spe-cifically holds that equity jurisdiction attaches where the
plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law in the form of
money damages for alleged wrong committed by a fiduciary and the bill contains no other averments which
show necessity for equitable relief.
On the other hand, this Court, in a long line of authorities, has held that under the Seventh Amendment

.230

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

and § 267 of the Judicial Code, suits in equity are prohibited in any court of the United States where a plain,
adequate and complete remedy may be had at law.
In cases of alleged fraud, a federal court will not sustain a bill in equity to obtain only a decree for the payment of money by way of damages when a like amount
can be recovered at law in an action sounding in tort, or
for money had and received. Buzard v. Houston, 119
U. S. 352.
Where the relief sought against the trustee is one for
the payment of moneys generally, and the bill discloses
no facts which require an accounting or any other recognized equitable relief, equitable jurisdiction h-s been denied. See: Godfrey v. McConnell, 151 Fed. 783; Corsicana Nat. Bank v. Johnson, 218 Fed. 822; Adams v.
Clark, 22 F. (2d) 956; Cockrill v. Cooper, 86 Fed. 7;
Stephens v. Overstoltz, 43 Fed. 771; Kelley v. Dolan, 233
Fed. 635; Parkerson v. Borst, 251 Fed. 242; Adams v.
Jones, 11 F. (2d) 759; Schoenthal v. Irving Trust Co.,
287 U. S.92; Clews v. Jamieson, 182 U. S.461.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The controversies here involved arise in a suit in equity
brouglit November 3, 1924, in the federal court for the
southern district of West Virginia by the Piedmont Coal
Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, and three persons,
inhabitants of Pennsylvania, against the Tower Hill Connellsville Coke Company of West Virginia, a corporation
organized under the laws of that State. The plaintiffs
own 4,000 common and 10,850 preferred shares of its
stock. August 25, 1932, the court entered a decree that
defendant's business be wound up and its properties converted into money and distributed to its creditors and
shareholders, appointed petitioners receivers, and directed
a special master to state an account and to report to the
court all claims against defendant. Respondents have

ALIEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

1, Opinion of the Court.

presented claims. Petitioners oppose their demands and
by counterclaims ask affirmative relief.
The qupstions, as put by them, are:
"
W(1)
en a claimant appears before a master in a
federal receivership proceeding and proves a claim to
share in th~e distribution of the receivership res, does he
submit hii:aself to the jurisdiction of the receivership
court for the adjudication of his liability to the res, when
the counterclaim asserted against him by the receiver is
of a nature cognizable in equity and its adjudication is
essential to a final disposition of the receivership proceeding?
"(2) Is not the adjudication *ofthe counterclaim against
the claimant and the determination of the whole controversy within the purpose and intendment of Equity Rule
30?"
The Tower Hill Connellsville Coke Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, operated coal mines and coke
plants.* The West Virginia Tower Hill, by issue of its
stock to the stockholders of the Pennsylvania Tower Hill,
acquired all the share capital of the latter and until January 8, 1930, was merely a holding company owning only
that stock. In April, 1920, Thompson Connellsville Coke
Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, purchased a majority, about 28,000 shares, of the common stock of the
West Virginia Tower Hill. Respondent Hillman, an inhabitant of Pennsylvania, was president of and controlled
the purchasing company. Respondents Sheets and Watson of that State were also its officers. Hillman became
president and Sheets and Watson became officers of both
Tower Hill companies. In June, 1920, the Eastern Coke
* The facts prior to the appointment of the special master are de-

rived from the records of earlier litigation in this suit that were filed
in this court with petitions for certiorari. 280 U. S. 607. 290 U. S.
675. We take judicial notice of them. National Fire Ins. Co. v.
Thompson, 281 U. S. 331, 336, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

Company was organized under Pennsylvania law; Hillman became its president and Sheets and Watson were
given other offices. They caused the Pennsylvania Tower
Hill to subscribe for 51% of the common shares, and
later it acquired the rest. The three individual respondents were also directors of the Tower Hill companies, the
Eastern Company and the two corporate respondents, the
Hillman Coal & Coke Company and the Hecla Coal &
Coke Company. Hillman, with the other two acting
under his direction, dominated these five corporations.
The corporations maintained joint general offices and
joint sales, operating and engineering departments.
The preferred stock of the West Virginia Tower Hill
was, in preference to the common, entitled to cumulative
dividends at the annual rate of $6 per share and, upon
distribution of assets, par plus unpaid dividends. In 1924
the company paid $9, leaving then accumulated $97.50
per share. No other dividend has been paid. The stockholders' bill alleged that, ever since Hillman took control, the Pennsylvania Tower Hill had sufficient resources
to pay a dividend out of which the West Virginia Tower
Hill could make a payment on account of its own preferred stock but that the directors of the former fraludu'cntly refused to declare any dividend, and that it was
,itendcd to exhaust the resources of both companies without paying anything to stockholders of the latter. It
prayed the anpointment of receivers empowered to take
the share2 4,f Pennsylvania Tower Hill and vote them
at meetings of the company's stockholders and to demand that it declare dividends, to procure appointment
of ancillary receivers in Pennsylvania and, if found necessary, to bring suits there.
Defendant's answer denied the fraud charged. The
court found plaintiffs entitled to relief and that the Pennsylvania Tower Hill had sufficient funds to pay $20 per
share on defendant's preferred stock. It declared that,

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Opinion of the Court.

if the companies failed within 30 days to take steps to
do this, receivers would be appointed and given appropriate authority. Then, defendant moved to dismiss the
suit for want of indispensable parties asserted to be: -its
common stockholders including the Thompson company,
the Pennsylvania Tower Hill, and defendant's directors,
all citizens of Pennsylvania. In support of the motion,
defendant alleged that the directors were the actors in all
the transactions of which the bill complained. Making
any inhabitant of Pennsylvania a party would destroy
diversity of citizenship and oust jurisdiction. Salem
Trust Co. v. Manufacturers' Finance Co., 264 U. S. 182,
189. The court refused to entertain the motion and, since
no steps were taken to pay the dividend, appointed receivers and authorized them substantially as prayed.
. Defendant appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals,
July 8, 1929,.found that the holders of defendant's preferred stock had been subjected to treatment that
amounted to fraud in law and that enough had been
shown to require the appointment of receivers with power
to bring in the courts in Pennsylvania all actions necessary to protect plaintiffs' rights. It held that for the appointment of receivers, with power so limited, the West
Virginia Tower Hill was the only necessary party. 33 F.
(2d) 703. This court having denied defendant's petition
for certiorari (280 U. S. 607) the district court made its
decree conform to the mandate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals. The district court for western Pennsylvania
appointed ancillary receivers with authority to sue the
Pennsylvania Tower Hill, its officers and directors to
obtain transfer by that company of property and money
to the defendant. But, after the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and while its mandate was siayed pending decision by this court upon petition for certiorari, the
individual respondents caused several transfers to be
made: Pennsylvania Tower Hill traded coal lands for a

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

mine of Redstone Coal & Coke Company. Eastern Coke
Company conveyed all its assets to Pennsylvania Tower
Hill. And the latter transferred all its property to
defendant.
Then plaintiffs by an amended and supplemental bill
prayed that defendant be dissolved and that receivers be
appointed to distribute its assets to creditors and stockholders. The relief was sought upon the ground that the
purpose of the transfers had been to prevent inquiry into
the management of the Tower Hill companies; great
losses were endangering security for preferred stock liability, and the purposes for which the defendant was organized had failed. Almost immediately after knowledge
of plaintiffs' purpose to file that bill, defendant paid
$1,184,000 for 11,840 shares of the Emerald Coal & Coke
Company. Plaintiffs then filed a second amended and
supplemental bill. After answer and trial, the district
court, in accordance with the plaintiffs' allegations and
proofs, found: The purpose of the transfer of assets from
Pennsylvania Tower Hill to defendant was to prevent
the receivers from securing any relief. Defendant's assets
had so decreased as to imperil its preferred shares and
their value might disappear in the near future. And,
August 25, 1932, it entered a decree substantially as
prayed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 64 F. (2d) 817.
It held:
None of the transactions occurring since its first decision has been to the advantage of the Tower Hill companies. The purchase of the Emerald stock was definitely
harmful. Assets are hardly more than enough to pay
preferred stockholders. To continue the business would
allow those in control, who have shown utter disregard of
rights of preferred stockholders, to speculate further at
their risk alone. Transfer of assets by the Penneylvania
Tower Hill to defendant rendered futile and useless any-

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Opinion of the Court.

thing the receivers might do in Pennsylvania and was
made for that purpose. There was no lack of indispensable parties. This court denied certiorari. 290 U. S.
675.
Respondents' claims were verified and presented at a
hearing before the master January 30, 1934. Hillman and
Sheets claim the value of $105,000 in government bonds
furnished by them to obtain supersedeas on defendant's
appeal from the decree of August 25, 1932. Watson claims
$33,750. This is for salary as defendant's secretary, and
for services as counsel for defendant in the main suit and
for the Pennsylvania Tower Hill in tax matters. The
Hecla company claims as owner of preferred and common
shares of defendant.
The Hillman company claims
$2,720.03, alleged to have been paid for account of defendant in adjustment of expenses of the companies having joint offices.
February 19, 1934, the receivers filed an ancillary bill.
It asserts four counterclaims. The first is for large sums
that under the guise of salaries the individual respondents
took from the Tower Hill and Eastern companies. The
amounts so withdrawn were wholly disproportionate to
the value of services rendered. The second is for $1,184,000 that, for the advantage and benefit of Hillman personally, they caused defendant to pay for the shares of
Emerald company. The third is for money that they,
through and for the Hillman company, caused to be taken
from the Tower Hill and Eastern companies under pretense of apportionment of joint expenses. The fourth is
for $356,000, the value of land of the Pennsylvania Tower
Hill that they, for the benefit of the Hecla company,
caused to be transferred to the Redstone company in exchange for the coal mine, and claim is made for additional
sums paid for taxes and improvements upon the latter.
The facts alleged amount to charges that the disbursement of moneys and transfer of property complained of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

were directed to be made by the individual respondents
in bad faith and in violation of duties that as officers and
directors they owed to the three companies and their
stockholders and were misappropriations of the assets of
these corporations.
The bill alleges that the claims presented by respondents cannot be adjudicated without consideration of the
claims that the receivers assert against them and that the
adjudication of both groups of claims in one proceeding is
necessary for the effectual enforcement of the principal
decree. It prays: that Hillmdn, Sheets and Watson be
required to pay the amounts that they took under the
guise of salaries and, upon return to them of the shares
of the Emerald company, the amount they caused defendant to pay therefor; that they and the Hillman company pay the money taken on the pretended division of
expenses; and that they and the Hecla company, upon
return of the property received in exchange, pay the
value of the coal lands handed over by Pennsylvania
Tower Hill to the Redstone company, together with the
net amounts expended by the Tower Hill companies upon
the first mentioned property.
The court's order granting leave to file the ancillary
bill directed that it be given a separate number and that
it be ancillary to the main suit, required defendants to
move to dismiss or to answer within a specified time, directed receivers to mail to respondents at Pittsburgh, and
to deliver at the office in West Virginia of defendant's
counsel in the main suit, a copy of the order and of the
ancillary bill. This having been done, respondents appeared specially and moved to vacate the order and to
quash the service on the ground that none of them was
within the jurisdiction but that each was an inhabitant
of Pennsylvania within the purview of § 51, Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C., § 112.

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Opinion of the Court.

The court dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction
over the persons of respondents. By a memorandum filed
with the order, the district judge indicated that he was
of opinion that the respondents, by presenting their
claims and appearing before the master, had become parties for all purposes but that, if he were to so hold, the
suit would have to be tried before the question of jurisdiction could be finally decided, and that therefore he
would grant the motion to dismiss so that the receivers
might appeal and have the question settled in advance
of trial. The Circuit Court of Appeals, one of the judges
dissenting, held that the district court was without jurisdiction of respondents to adjudicate the counterclaims or
to grant any affirmative relief. It did have jurisdiction
to pass on any defense, legal or equitable, which might
be asserted against respondents' claims, and to stay action thereon until the counterclaims could be elsewhere
adjudicated "so that they could be set off against the
claims, or the amounts payable thereunder, as might be
proper." The district court should have retained the
ancillary bill, "treating it as a petition to stay action on
the claims . . . and as setting up defenses . . . where
the matters alleged could be considered as purely matters
of defense as distinguished from counterclaims." The
court modified the decree and remanded the case for proceedings in accordance with the opinion. 75 F. (2d) 451.
This court granted certiorari. 295 U. S. 725.
The subject matter of the main suit is the right of
plaintilffs, being stockholders of defendant, to have its
business wound up, and its assets collected and distributed
among its creditors and stockholders. That the district
court had jurisdiction to enter that decree has been finally
adjudged. 64 F. (2d) 817. The receivers are the court's
representatives and are entitled to have all the property
belonging to defendant, and upon leave, may sue to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

cover any part of the res. The controversies before us
arise between respondents who come to share therein and
the receivers who not only put in issue the validity of
respondents' claims but allege that they have and refuse
to account for a portion of the assets. Undoubtedly the
court has jurisdiction of the subject matter, i. e., the
claims and counterclaims. White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36.
Pope v. Louisville, N. A. & C. Ry. Co., 173 U. S. 573, 577,
Peck v. Elliott, 79 Fed. 10.
We come to the question whether the court has jurisdiction of the persons of respondents in respect of the
counterclaims.
.They were not parties to the controversy resulting in
the decree winding up defendant's affairs. The court has
issued no process against them. The delivery of copies of
the order and bill in accordance with the court's direction
did not make them parties. But petitioners insist that by
presenting their claims respondents submitted themselves
to the jurisdiction of the court to grant affirmative relief
on the causes of action alleged against them. Respondents contend that in the last analysis the issue is one of
venue. They say: The ancillary bill is an original one
commencing a suit to which thel', being inhabitants of
Pennsylvania, cannot be made parties by the service of
process. The proving of claims before the special master
did not make ther,3 parties to the original cause and they
have not thereby waived the privilege conferred by § 51
of the Judicial Code.
Respondents appropriately presented their claims and
became entitled to adjudication without petition for intervention, any formal pleading or commencement of suit.
Unquestionably, they submitted themselve$ to the court's
jurisdiction in respect of all defenses that might be made
by the receivers and of all objections that other claimants
might interpose to the validity, amounts or priorities of

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Opinion of the Court.

their claims. And they put themselves in position, should
their interest warrant, to challenge the receivers' acts and
the demands of others claiming as creditors. Stewart v.
Dunham, 115 U. S. 61, 64. Elkins v. First Nat. Bank,
43 F. (2d) 777, 779. Continental Trust Co. v. Toledo,
St. L. & K. C. R. Co., 82 Fed. 642, 647. Jones & Laughlins
v. Sands, 79 Fed. 913. Gasquet v. Fidelity Trust & Safety
Vault Co., 57 Fed. 80, 83. Acme White Lead & Color
Works v. Republic Motor Truck Co., 285 Fed. 88, 90.
And see Youtsey v. Hoffman, 108 Fed. 693, 695.
The ancillary bill is not an original bill for the commencement of a suit. That it was not so intended is
shown by the fact that process was not prayed or issued.
While in form not inappropriate for commencement of
suit, it was in fact formulated and filed to serve as a pleading in the main suit to put respondents to proof of their
claims and to assert the right to affirmative relief. Treating their established forms as flexible, courts of equity
may suit proceedings and remedies to the circumstances
of cases and formulate them appropriately to safeguard,
conveniently to adjudge and promptly to enforce substantial rights of all the parties before them. See Stork,
Equity Jurisprudence, 14th ed., § 28.
All trusts, tose implied as well as those expressly
created, are within the jurisdiction of courts of equity.
The doctrine of trusts is deemed to be "the most efficient
instrument in the hands of,, a chancellor for maintaining
justice, good faith, and good conscience; and it has been
extended so as to embrace not only lands, but chattels,
funds of every kind, things in action, and moneys."
Clews v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461, 479. Pomeroy, Equity
Jurisprudence, 4th ed., § 151. It is to be understood from
the allegations of the ancillary bill that the individual
respondents as officers and directors so dominated the corporate owners that they had and exerted full power over

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

all the corporate property and transactions. Causes of
action arising from transgressions of officers and directors
of corporations such as those on which the receivers rest
their counterclaims are cognizable in equity for the reason that the receivers have no adequate remedy at law
and also because respondents, as it is alleged, fraudulently
obtained defendant's property and therefore cannot in
equity and good conscience retain it. See Pomeroy,
§§ 155, 157. Cockrill v. Cooper, 86 Fed. 7, 13, et seq.
And, so far as concerns the matters in controversy here,
the individual respondents are to be dealt with just as if
they were technically trustees for creditors and stockholders. Koehler v. Black River Falls Iron Co., 2 Black
715, 720-721. Jackson v. Ludeling, 21. Wall. 616, 624, 631.
Wardell v. RailroadCo., 103 U. S. 651, 658-659. Briggs v.
Spaulding, 141 U. S. 132, 147. Geddes v. Anaconda Mining Co., 254 U. S. 590, 599. The allegations of the ancillary bill make it appear that the corporate respondents
were so under control of the individual respondents as to
be merely their tools for carrying out the transactions
culminating in the misappropriations charged. It results therefore that all the claims asserted against respondents may be dealt with in equity.
The rule contained in § 51, Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.,
§ 112, that is invoked by respondents here declares:
... no civil suit shall be brought in any district court
against any person by any original process or proceeding
in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant . . ." The section applies only where a suit is
"brought . . . by any original process or proceeding . . ." No attempt was made to summon respondents
into court. That provision does not affect the general
jurisdiction of district courts but merely confers a personal privilege that may be waived. General Investment
Co. v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry., 260 U. S. 261, 272. Lee

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Opinion of the Court.

v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry., 260 U. S. 653, 655. By presenting their claims respondents subjected themselves to
all the consequences that attach to an appearance, § 51
to the contrary notwithstanding. See General Electric
Co. v. Marvel Co., 287 U. S. 430, 435.
Petitioners invoke a provision of our Equity Rule 30:
"The defendant by his answer shall set out . . . his defense to each claim asserted in the bill . . . The answer
must state . . . any counterclaim arising out of the transaction which is the subject-matter of the suit, and
may . . . set up any set-off or counterclaim against the
plaintiff which might be the subject of an independent
suit in equity against him . . ." It may not be said
that, by presenting their claims, respondents commenced
a suit and so brought that provision into play. The rule
does not purport to cover, and was not prescribed for,
situations such as that here presented. Chandler& Price
Co. v. Brandtjen d Kluge, Inc., ante, p. 53. But the
omission so to extend the rule gives rise to no implication that receivers may not assert and enforce, against
those who appear and demand part of the res, counterclaims for portions of the receivership estate that they
wrongfully took and still withhold. The right of the receivers to have 'affirmative relief in the receivership court
is supported by the same, or at least similar and equally
strong, reasons as those that constitute the foundation
of the rule. Cf. American Mills Co. v. American Surety
Co., 260 U. S. 360, 365. Moore v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange,
270 U. S. 593, 609.
Respondents' contention means that, while invoking
the court's jurisdiction to establish their right to participate in the distribution, they may deny its power to require them to account for what they misappropriated. In
behalf of creditors and stockholders, the receivers reasonably may insist that, before taking aught, respondents
33682°-36----16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

may by the receivership court be required to make restitution. That requirement is in harmony with the rule
generally followed by courts of equity that having jurisdiction of the parties to controversies brought before
them, they will decide all matters in dispute and decree
complete relief. Pomeroy, §§ 181, 231. United States v.
Union Pacific Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 1, 52. Camp v. Boyd,
229 U. S. 530, 551-552. McGowan v. Parish, 237 U. S.
285, 296. Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. Co., 244
U. S. 499, 520. Cf. Hartford Accident Co. v. Southern
Pacific, 273 U. S. 207, 217-218. Distribution may not be
made without decision upon the counterclaims. Nothing
is more clearly a part of the subject matter of the main
suit than recovery of all that to the res belongs. Gasquet
v. Fidelity Trust & Safety Vault Co., supra, 83-84. Peck
v. Elliott, supra. Hollander v. Heaslip, 222 Fed. 808, 811.
The Circuit Court of Appeals rightly held that the district court has jurisdiction to pass on all defenses against
respondents' claims, but erred in holding it to be without
jurisdiction to grant affirmative relief. The decision permits the court to pass upon the receivers' rights of recoupment and set-off up to the amount of respondents'
claims but, without regard to what they are entitled to
have, prevents that court from giving them judgment
against respondents. That limitation may be assumed to
be in harmony with the rule governing recoupment and
set-off that formerly was strictly applied. Cf. VirginiaCarolina Chemical Co. v. Kirven, 215 U. S. 252, 258.
Merchants Heat & L. Co. v. Clow & Sons, 204 U. S. 286,
289-290. But, contrary to the rule that equity will decree
complete relief, the prescribed restrictions prevent appropriate adaptation of equity to the circumstances of cases.
It requires the receivers to split their causes of action.
While permitted to seek enforcement of so much of their
claims as are "purely defensive," they would be com-

ALEXANDER v. HILLMAN.
222

Opinion of the Court.

pelled to go to another court to recover the rest. The
splitting required extends even to separate items that go
to make up a single cause of action; e. g., the items constituting the claim based upon respondents' apportionment of expenses. And if the receivership court has jurisdiction of respondents in respect of only so much of the
receivers' counterclaims as are strictly defensive, then its
determinations as to those parts would not be binding as
to the rest. Portland Wood Pipe Co. v. Slick Bros. Construction Co., 222 Fed. 528. The decision may be construed to direct the receivership court to stay all proceedings on respondents' claims until final judgment may be
obtained in suits brought elsewhere upon the causes of
action asserted by the receivers. That would introduce
additional elements of uncertainty and would involve unnecessary delay, work and expense. As the individual
respondents dominated the defendant and the other corporations used to effect the alleged misappropriations and
also directed defendant's part in this litigation, it would
seem that necessarily most of the issues in respect of the
counterclaims will be quite similar to those litigated in
the main suit. Unquestionably, all matters in the controversies between the parties may be tried and determined more conveniently and promptly in the receivership court than elsewhere.
It is 'clear that, under the circumstances disclosed, the
restrictions laid by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the
receivership court are not consistent with that freedom
as to procedure that necessarily belongs to courts of
equity administering receiverships. See Portland Wood
Pipe Co. v. Slick Bros. Construction Co., supra. Its
decree will be reversed and the case remanded to the district court with directions to proceed in accordance with
this opinion.
Reversed.

