FOX FILM CORP. v. MULLER.
200

Statement of the Case.

in conflict with the stipulation of the parties and the
findings, for which we think the record affords no support
whatever. To remand the cause for further findings
would be futile. The Board could not properly find anything which would assist the Commissioner's cause.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
The action of the Board of Tax Appeals is approved.
Reversed.
FOX FILM CORP. v. MULLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 47.

Argued November 15, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. Where the judgment of a state court rests upon two grounds, one
of which is federal and the other non-federal in character, the
jurisdiction of this Court fails if the non-federal ground is independent of the federal ground and adequate to support the judgment. P. 210.
2. Whether the provisions of a contract are non-severable, so that
if one be held invalid the others must fall with it, is a question
of general and not of federal law. P. 210.
3. A ruling by a state supreme court that a concededly invalid arbitration clause in a contract between a motion picture distributor
and an exhibitor (the same clause that was held invalid as a violation of the Sherman Act in Paramount Famous Corp. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 30) was inseparable from the other provisions
and rendered the entire contract unenforceable, held a non-federal
ground adequate to support the judgment, without regard to
whether the court decide4 a federal question in determining the
contract invalid also on another ground. P. 210.
4. Enterprise Irrigation Disbrict v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, distinguished. P. 210.
Writ of certiorari to 194 Minn. 654; 260 N. W. 320, dismissed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 730, to review a judgment affirming a judgment denying recovery in an action for damages
for breach of contract. A writ of certiorari previously
granted in this case, 293 U. S. 550, to. review an earlier

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

judgment of the state court, 192 Minn. 212; 255 N. W.
845, was dismissed as improvidently granted, it appearing
that no final judgment had been entered, 294 U. S. 696.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Jr., with whom Messrs. James
D. Shearer and Percy Heiliger were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Abram F. Myers, with whom Mr. Samuel P. Halpern was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLANfD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought in a Minnesota state court
of first instance by the Film Corporation against Muller,
to recover damages for an alleged breach of two contracts
by which Muller was licensed to exhibit certain movingpicture films belonging to the corporation. Muller answered, setting up the invalidity of the contracts under
the Sherman Anti-trust Act. It was and is agreed that
these contracts are substantially the same as the one involved in United States v. Paramount Famous Lasky
Corp., 34 F. (2d) 984, aff'd 282 U. S. 30; that petitioner
was one of the defendants in that action; and that the
"arbitration clause," paragraph 18 of each of the contracts sued upon, is the same as that held in that case to
be invalid. In view of the disposition which we are to
make of this writ, it is not necessary to set forth the terms
of the arbitration clause or the other provisions of the
contract.
The court of first instance held that each contract sued
upon violated the Sherman Anti-trust Act, and dismissed
the action. In a supplemental opinion that court put its
decision upon the grounds, first, that the arbitration plan
is so connected with the remainder of the contract that
the entire contract is tainted, and, second, that the con.-

FOX FILM CORP. v. MULLER.
Opinion of the Coult.

207

tract violates the Sherman Anti-trust law. The state
supreme court affirmed. 192 Minn. 212; 255 N. W. 845.
We granted certiorari, 293 U. S. 550; but, when the case
was called for argument, it appeared that no final judgment had been entered and the writ was dismissed as
improvidently granted. 294 U. S. 696. The case was then
remanded to the state supreme court; and, the judgment
having been made final, and again affirmed by the state
supreme court on the authority of its previous opinion,
194 Minn. 654; 260 N. W. 320, we allowed the present
writ. 295 U. S. 730.
In its opinion, the state supreme court, after a statement of the case, said (192 Minn. at p. 214):
"The question presented on this appeal is whether the
arbitration clause is severable from the contract, leaving
the remainder of the contract enforceable, or not severable, permeating and tainting the whole contract with
illegality and making it void."
That court then proceeded to refer to and discuss a number of decisions of state and federal courts, some of which
took the view that the arbitration clause was severable,
and others that it was not severable, from the remainder
of the contract. After reviewing the opinion and decree
of the federal district court in the Paramount case, the
lower court reached the conclusion that the holding of the
federal court was that the entire contract was illegal; and
upon that view and upon what it conceived to be the
weight of authority, held the arbitration plan was inseparable from the other provisions of the contract. Whether
this conclusion was right or wrong we need not determine.
It is enough that it is, at least, not without fair support.
Respondent contends that the question of severability
was alone decided and that no federal question was determined by the lower court. This contention petitioner
challenges, and asserts that a federal question was involved and decided. We do not attempt to settle the dis33682o-36----14

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

pute; but, assuming for present purposes only that petitioner's view is the correct one, the case is controlled by
the settled rule that where the judgment of a state court
rests upon two grounds, one of which is federal and the
other non-federal in character, our jurisdiction fails if the
non-federal ground is independent of the federal ground
and adequate to support the judgment. This rule had
become firmly fixed at least as early as Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257, 263, and has been reiterated in a long
line of cases since that time. It is enough to cite, in addition to the Klinger case, the following: Enterprise Irrigation District v. Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 163-165;
Petrie v. Nampa Irrigation District, 248 U. S. 154, 157;
McCoy v. Shaw, 277 U. S. 302; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S.
361.
Whether the provisions of a contract are non-severable,
so that if one be held invalid the others must fall with it,
is clearly a question of general and not of federal law.
The invalidity of the arbitration clause which the present contracts embody is conceded. It was held invalid
by the federal district court in the Paramount case, and
its judgment was affirmed here. The question, therefore,
was foreclosed; and was not the subject of controversy in
the state courts. In that situation, the primary question to be determined by the court below was whether
the concededly invalid clause was separable from the other
provisions of the contract. The ruling of the state supreme court that it was not, is sufficient to conclude the
case without regard to the determination, if, in fact, any
was made, in respect of the federal question. It follows
that the non-federal ground is adequate to sustain the
judgment.
The rule announced in EnterpriseIrrigation District v.
Canal Co., supra, and other cases, to the effect that our
jurisdiction attaches where the non-federal ground is so
interwoven with the other as not to be an independent

BINGHAM v. UNITED STATES.
207

Syllabus.

matter, does not apply. The construction put upon the
contracts did not constitute a preliminary step which
simply had the effect of bringing forward for determination the federal question, but was a decision which
automatically took the federal question out of the case if
otherwise it would be there. The non-federal question
in respect of the construction of the contracts, and the
federal question in respect of their validity under the
Anti-trust Act, were clearly independent of one another.
See Allen v. Southern Pacific R. Co., 173 U. S. 479, 489492. The case, in effect, was disposed of before the federal question said to be involved was reached. Chouteau
v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S.
540, 548. A decision of that question then became unnecessary; and whether it was decided or not, our want
of jurisdiction is clear.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

BINGHAM ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 83.

Argued November 22, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. Acts of Congress are to be construed, if possible, so as to avoid
grave doubts of their constitutionality. P. 218.
2. Section 402 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1918, which declares that
amounts in excess of $40,000 receivable by all beneficiaries, other
than the executor, as insurance under policies taken out by a
decedent upon his own life, shall be included in his gross estate
in determining the estate transfer tax, is not to be construed as
applicable to a policy taken out and made payable, directly or by
assignment, to such a beneficiary long before the Act was passed,
where no power was reservedl in the decedent to change the bene-

