OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting.
The opinion of Judge Sibley in the court below, 75
F. (2d) 380, seems to me conclusive upon the propositions
that neither the common law, the contract with the Government, nor the bond furnished by the contractor, give
materialmen or laborers any right of lien upon the fund
or preference in distribution thereof. I also agree with
his view that the indemnity contract between the contractor and the surety company (even if an assignment of
a claim for retained percentages against the United States
were valid, in view of R. S. § 3477), is too vague to
amount to an assignment of the retained percentages;
and that the surety is not entitled to subrogation either to
the rights of the United States or of the materialmen and
contractors. I think it clear that, in the circumstances,
the amount paid by the United States into the fund in
the hands of the trustee in bankruptcy is general assets of
the estate and that the surety company, as respects its
claim for the amount paid under its bond, and the furnishers of material and labor, are general creditors entitled to no preference or priority over each other. I
think the judgment should, therefore, be reversed.
McCANDLESS, RECEIVER, v. FURLAUD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 26.

Argued October 21, 22, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. Promoters of a corporation, who deal with it for their profit oppressively or in violation of statute, are chargeable as trustees.
P. 156.
2. The extent to which approval of all the shareholders will relieve
promoters of this liability depends upon the nature of the wrong
and the interests affected. P. 157.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Syllabus.

3. Promoters formed in Pennsylvania a corporation of low capitalization and bought all of its shares. Having full control, and
acting with other agencies of their own, they greatly increased
the capital stock, subscribed for part of it, and made two contracts with the corporation. By one of these the company was
to buy land upon which the promoters had acquired options, and
to pay for it partly in cash and partly in bonds, with a block
of the new stock thrown in as a bonus. The bonds were to be
part of a very large issue of bonds and notes, to be secured by
mortgage of the land when the corporation got title. By the
other contract, the corporation agreed to sell. to the promoters
the rest of the bonds and all of the notes at prices stated. They
caused the bond and note issues to be offered to the public upon
false representations grossly exaggerating the value of the land and
calculated to mislead buyers to believe that the proceeds of the
issues would all be used to buy the land for the company and to
supply it with working capital. The agreements with the corpora-

tion were consummated, in effect, with moneys derived from subscriptions thus obtained for the bonds, the difficulty of taking up
the options, vesting title in the corporation and making and recording its mortgage before cashing in the subscriptions being
solved by one-day credits obtained from bankers, which were
strictly limited and guarded to this one purpose, and which were
promptly satisfied from part of the bond proceeds. The rest of
the bonds, all of the notes, and the two blocks of new shares the
promoters sold to the public. The result of the scheme was that
the corporation owned, besides a comparatively small amount of
working capital, only the land, worth less than the option price
and saddled with liens securing the bonds and notes greatly exceeding its value; and much of its stock had been issued with nothing back of it; so that, at the inception of its career, the corporation was actually or virtually insolvent; whereas the promoters, by
their sales of the securities as their own, had reaped large profits.
.Soon afterwards, the company was in the hands of a receiver.Held:
(1) That the effect of these dealings with the corporation was,
at the time of the conveyance, to put in jeopardy the interests
of bondholders and noteholders by a diversion of the proceeds that
would make their mortgage worthless;, it was not within the
power of the shareholders, who were also the promoters, to legalize this waste to the detriment of others. Pp. 158-160.

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

(2) The acts of the promoters also' violated Art. 16, § 7, of the
Pennsylvania Constitution and Purdon's Pennsylvania Statutes,
Title 15, § 131, forbidding corporations to issue stocks or bonds
except for money, labor or property actually received, and declaring all fictitious increases void. This prohibition may not be set
aside by shareholders to the prejudice of creditors or other shareholders, present or prospective. P. 161.
(3) Assuming that the corporation itself, at the instance of
ne v shareholders, could not disaffirm the fraud and seek equitable
relief, its receiver is not so limited. He holds the assets to administer as a trust and may require the promoters to account for the
moneys fraudulently diverted to the prejudice of creditors. P. 160.
(4) Old Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206,
distinguished. P. 157.
(5) The liability of the promoters as trustees would exist even
if their wrongful acts had not rendered the corporation literally
insolvent at the beginning. P. 163.
(6) The promoters are liable to the receiver for the proceeds
of the stock sales as well as the proceeds of the sales of bonds
and notes. P. 164.
(7) In view of the initial fraud of the promoters and of evidence tending to prove that other parties to the suit to whom the
promoters sold stock had guilty knowledge, the burden of proving
bona fide purchase rested upon those parties as well as upon the
promoters. P. 165.
(8) The promoters are liable 'personally for the wrongs committed through their corporate agencies. P. 165.
(9) The defendants may be -credited with any legitimate expenses. P; 165.
(10) That defendants may be liable to purchasers of the securities in actions for deceit, is not a reason for denying to the
receiver a recovery of the illicit profits. P. 166.
4. Cost, in and of itself, is evidence of value, especially where there
is no market value. P. 158.
5. In a suit to hold promoters of a corporation as trustees of funds
realized by them from securities of the corporation taken in exchange for land upon which they were secured by mortgage,
there was evidence that the land was worth no more than its
cost to the promoters and that the securities had been sold to the
public upon fraudulent appraisals of the land and upon fraudulent representations that the proceeds would be used to purchase
it for the corporation and for working capital; whereas two-fifths

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140.

Argument for Petitioner.

of such proceeds went to the promoters. Held that, the burden
being on the promoters to exculpate their conduct, the evidence,
in the absence of contradiction or explanation, required the conclusion that the property and money acquired by the corporation
was of much less value than the amount of the secured debts
and that the corporation was insolvent from the beginning.
P. 158.
.75 F. (2d) 977, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 726, to review a decree which reversed a decree of the District Court granting part of the
relief sought by the receiver of an insolvent corporation
in a suit to compel individuals, who had promoted it,
and three of their corporate agencies, to account for
profits made by selling it land and marketing its securities.
The decree of the District Court is here affirmed with a
modification. For an earlier phase, see 68 F. (2d) 925;
293 U. S. 67.

Mr. Ralph Royall for petitioner.
Presumptively the trial court's findings were correct.
The defendant Furlaud as the promoter of the corporation stood in a fiduciary relation to it so as to be accountable for the whole proceeds of the securities of the corporation which were diverted and misappropriated.
Yeiser. v. U. S. Board & Paper Co., 107 Fed. 340, 344;
New Sombrero Phosphate Co. v. Erlanger, L. R. 5 Ch.
Div. 73; 46 L. J.:Ch. N. S. 425; 36-L., T. N. S. 222; 25
Week. Rep. 436 (1877); Davis v. Las Ovas Co., 227 U. S.
80, 87; Gluckstein v., Barnes (1900), App. Cas. 230. Old
Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206, and
Allenhurst Park Estates v. Smith, 101 N. J. Eq. 581, distinguished. Citing: Johnson v. Louisville Trust Co., 293
Fed. 857, 861; Coleman v. Tepel, 230 Fed. 63, 71.
The statements contained in the bond .and note prospectuses were, such as to impress a trust upon the proceeds of the -issue -of the bonds and notes for the benefit
of the corporation. Downey v. Finucane, 205 N. Y. 251,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioner.

296 U.S.

264. See also: Gates v. Megargel, 266 Fed. 811; Ryan
v. Ohmer, 244 Fed. 31, 34; Moran v. Standard Oil Co.,
211 N. Y. 187, 196.
Where one delivers money to another with the intention that that other shall pay the money to a third person, a trust arises which may be enforced by that third
person. McKee v. Lamon, 159 U. S. 317, 322; Sayer v.
Wynkoop, 248 N. Y. 54, 59.
From a broader view of it, the relationship of the defendants to the whole subject was such as to bring about an
implied trust. 2 Story Eq., 12th ed., § 1255.
Since the moneys which Furlaud's banking house received from the subscribers to the bonds and notes were
held subject to a trust for the benefit of the corporation,
it is difficult to see how anything which the promoters
could contrive to have this insolvent corporation do could
-destroy its property rights as the beneficiary of this trust
fund.
The accepted doctrine is that a receiver may disaffirm
acts of the corporation or its officers which were in fraud
of creditors even though there might be a good defense to
the suit as against the corporation itself. Casey v. Cavaroc, 96 U. S. 467, 488; Leach v. Grant,54 F. (2d) 731.
The rule has become firmly established that the receiver
stands in the rights of the creditors and may undo all corporate transactions which were in fraud of the creditors'
rights even though the corporation itself might not be able
to doso. [Citing many cases.]
The corporation was powerless to render itself insolvent
by surrendering to the defendants its right to hold them
accountable to it for the proceeds which came into the
hands of the defendants from the issuance of the securities
of the corporation.
In the hands of the defendants all the securities were
void under the Pennsylvania Constitution. The defendants at no time were in the position of stockholders, bondholders or noteholders of the corporation.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140 .

Argument for Respondents.

The defendant Furlaud is personally accountable for
the fraudulent misappropriations. Anderson v. Daley,
38 App. Div. 505; appeal dismissed, 159 N. Y. 146; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co., 225 U. S. 111, 132;
Chandler v. Bacon, 30 Fed. 538, 540.
The District Court properly held that the defendants
as defaulting trustees were not entitled to be credited for
services and disbursements in the course of defrauding
the beneficiary. Commonwealth Finance Corp. v. McHarg, 282 Fed. 560; Davis v. Las Ovas Co., 227 U. S. 80;
Dunlap v. Twin City Power Co., 226 Fed. 161.
Mr. Louis B. Eppstein, with whom Messrs. Ira W.
Hirshfield and Louis J. Altkrug were on the brief, for
respondents.
At the time of the sale of these properties by Kingston
Corporation to Duquesne Gas Corporation, Furlaud &
Company owned all of the stock of Duquesne Gas Corporation. As the result of the sale of this property by
Kingston Corporation and the payment by Furlaud &
Company of a sum of money, Furlaud & Company and its
wholly owned-subsidiary, Kingston Corporation, acquired
every share of stock, every note and every bond ever
issued by Duquesne Gas Corporation.
Old Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206,
212, should have disposed of this case. Gates V. Megargel,
266 Fed. 811, distinguished.
Yeiser v. U. S. Board & Paper Co., 107 Fed. 340, 344,
and New Sombrero Phosphate Co. v. Erlanger, L. R. 5
Ch. Div. 73; 46 L. J. Ch. N. S. 425; 36 L. T. N. W. 222;
25 Week. Rep. 436 (1877), do not limit the doctrine of
the Lewisohn case. Both were urged upon this Court in
the Lewisohn case, and were disposed of on the ground
that in those cases, at the very time when the promoters
carried through their transactions, there were in existence
innocent non-assenting stockholders to whom no disclosure of the true situation had been made. Davis v. Las
33682°--36--10

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

Ovas Co., 227 U. S: 80, was similar. Such cases are irrelevant where the corporation dealt -only with its organizers.
Ball v. Breed, 294 Fed. 227; cert. den. 264 U. S.584. See
Blum v. Whitney, 185 N. Y 232, 244.
Even in Massachusetts, where the rule on this general
subject is not in complete harmony with the federal rule,
it is now well settled that a corporation cannot recover
profits made by promoters in selling to it their own property, provided such promoters are or become the original
subscribers of all of the shares of capital stock contemplated as a part of the scheme of promotion, as is admittedly true in this case. Hays v. The Georgian, 280 Mass.
10. See also: Mile Wide Copper Co. v. Piper, 29 Ariz.
129; Allenhurst Park Estates v. Smith, 101 N. J. Eq. 581;
Hoffman Motor Truck Co. v. Erickson, 124 Minn. 279;
Higgins v. Lansingh, 154 Ill. 301; Tompkins v. Sperry,
Jones & Co., 96 Md. 560; Hamilton v. Hamilton Mammoth Mines, 110 Ore. 546; Turner v. Markham, 155 Cal.
562; Seymour v. Spring Forest Cemetery Assn., 144 N. )r.
333; Wells v. Northern Trust Co., 195 Ill. 288.
In McKee v. Lamon, 159 U. S.317, and Sayer v. Wynkoop, 248 N. Y. 54, money admittedly due to the, plaintiff, was by his debtor turned over to a third party to. be
paid to that plaintiff.
I In order that a trust in favor of a third person may
come into existence, such third person must have or be..
come entitled to an interest or a property right in thEa'
trust fund. No person delivered any property or moneyto Furlaud & Company with instructions to pay or deliver
it to Duquesne Gas Corporation. What happened was
that Furlaud & Company purchased certain securities
from Duquesne Gas Corporation and paid that corpora,
tion for them. Furlaud & Company in turn sold some
of the securities so purchased by it to third parties and
the third parties paid it for them.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Argument for Respondents.

Just how did the receiver of Duquesne Gas Corporation acquire the right or power to bring suit to vindicate
the personal rights of the individuals who became bondholders or noteholders of. Duquesne Gas Corporation?
The complainant does not contend that he .was appointed receiver of the personal rights of any individual;
nor thatany individual assigned his rights to him. Moreover, it does not even appear that any one had rights to
be vindicated. The jurisdictional facts necessary to establish. a cause of action on behalf of any of -these bondholders or noteholders have neither been alleged nor
proven. The court merely assumes that some one must
have been misled.
Is it :not elementary that in order to establish a cause
of action for fraud, it is necessary to allege and prove
not only (1) that certain representations were made, but
(2). that they were false, and (3) that they were material?
Is it not also essential to show (4) that the purchaser
relied upon such representations and believed them to
be true, and (5) acted upon them, and (6) that but for
such reliance the persons aggrieved would not have
entered into.the engagement complained of?
We insist that insofar as the record in this case discloses
the facts, no person is shown to have had any rights to
be vindicated.
Is it not also true that even if a cause of action did
accrue to some one; the person aggrieved had an election
of remedies? Had he not the right to go before a court
of equity to rescind the contract complained of if he so
elected? Had he not the right to bring an action at law if
he so elected? Does not each person so aggrieved have the
separate right to make such election as in his own unrestricted judgment is in his own best interests? Is not
such cause of action personal to each individual aggrieved?
See Foster v. Seymour, 23 Fed. 65.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

Under the facts of this case the plaintiff in his capacity
of receiver has no greater rights or powers than the corporation itself would have.
Directors of a corporation are trustees for the corporation and as such are trustees for its stockholders and
creditors. Any act of theirs in violation of their obligation as trustees is, of course, actionable. We have shown
that under the facts of this case no such relationship
existed or could have existed as a matter of law. See
Ball v. Breed, 294 Fed. 227; Ball v. Chapman, 1 F. (2d)
895; South Penn Collieries Co. v. Sproul, 52 F. (2d) 557;
Tompkins v. Sperry, Jones & Co., 96 Md. 560.
There is no allegation in the bill that charges that any
wrong was practiced on any one. The contention of the
petitioner that the corporation was powerless to render
itself insolvent by a surrender to the defendants of its
right to hold them accountable is not within the issues presented, and under the facts of this case it is unsound.
Wells v. Northern Trust Co., 195 Ill. 288; Seymour v.
Spring Forest Cemetery Assn., 144 N. Y. 333, 340.
The contention that all the securities were void under
the law of Pennsylvania is not raised by the complaint and
is in direct conflict with the theory upon which the case
was tried.
As a matter of fact, none of the defendants in this case
except Kingston Corporation ever acquired a single share
of stock, a bond or a note from the Duquesne Gas Corporation, so as to them the question if otherwise sound could
not be asserted. One of the leading cases following the
Lewisohn case is South Penn Collieries Co. v. Sproul, 52 F.
(2d) 537, involving a Pennsylvania corporation.
The bill was properly dismissed as to the Byron and
Chaucer Corporations.
Furlaud is not personally liable in this case in any event.
It nowhere appears that he personally received any of the
funds paid to Furlaud & Co.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

149

Opinion of the Court.

The bill shows that complainant had no title to any
cause of action that could have been asserted by Duquesne
Gas Corporation. McCandless v. Furlaud,293 U. S. 67;
Mitchell v. Maurer, 293 U. S. 237.
It affirmatively appears from the pleading in this case
that the appointment of complainant as ancillary receiver
was void.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The suit is by a receiver of an insolvent corporation to
compel its promoters and their confederates to restore
illicit gains.
At the time of the challenged acts Maxime H. Furlaud
was the president and principal shareholder of Furlaud
& Company, Inc., a corporation now dissolved. For convenience the name Furlaud, unless qualified, will be used
to designate the company. Carlos Reuter was an officer
of the same corporation and a holder of a block of shares.
He was named as a defendant, but was not served with
process, and hence is out of the case, except in so far as
his acts affect the liability of others. Kingston Corporation was a subsidiary of Furlaud and was owned and controlled by the same persons. Byron Corporation and
Chaucer Corporation were closely related to Furlaud and
Kingston, the wife of Maxime Furlaud being an important shareholder in Byron and the wife of Carlos Reuter
an important shareholder in Chaucer.
Furlaud was known as an investment banking house,
and was interested in the issue and sale of corporate securities. Particularly it was interested in a project for
the formation of a company that would own and operate
gas fields in Western Pennsylvania. Reuter, representing
Furlaud, took options from the owners of nine separate
tracts. These options, which at first were gratuitous,
were acquired in the name of a subsidiary, Kingston.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

Engineers were then employed to examine the fields and
appraise their value. One of them, Davis, made report
to his employer in February, 1930, that five of the tracts,
which were afterwards acquired for about $1,300,000, had
a value of about $1,700,000 at the time of the appraisal.
The record permits the inference that the report was unsatisfactory to Reuter, who was hoping for a valuation
that would make inrestment in the enterprise more attractive to the public.. Accordingly the business of appraisal for the four remaining tracts was taken out of the
hands of Davis and placed in charge of others. The new
engineers were less conservative than their predecessor.
They fixed the value of the four tracts at about $5,000,000,
nearly five times the purchase price.. Lands to. be conveyed by Nuss for $660,000 figured in the appraisal as
worth the price and a million over. A value of $850,000
was assigned to undeveloped acres .which he agreed to
convey for nothing. The purchase price for the nine
tracts was $2,572,989; $7,000,000, or nearly that, was the
appraisal for the whole. A witness for the complainant
stated at the trial that the fair value of all the tracts
was about $2,700,000, the cost and little more.
With the appraisals thus completed a company was
organized in February, 1930, to take title to the gas fields
covered by the options. This was the Duquesne Gas
Corporation, now in the hands of the complainant as receiver. The options for the lands were still in the name
of Kingston. Furlaud had made a paymer:. ($45,510) to
give them binding force, but title had not passed. The
new company when organized had an authorized capital
of 1,000 shares of no-par common stock. Furlaud subscribed for the whole issue, paying for the shares at. the
rate of 50 cents a share. The nominees and representatives of Furlaud were then the sole stockholders. They
were also the sole directors. Provision was made after-

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

151

Opinion of the Court.

wards for an increase of the capital stock, but of this there
will be more later.
With the options still oustanding Furlaud formed a
syndicate of bankers to market the securities. The syndicate published an advertisement in a newspaper inviting subscriptions by the public to an issue of bonds and
notes. There were to be $4,000,000 6% mortgage bonds
(to be sold at 971/2%), and $1,000,000 61/2% mortgage
notes (to be sold at 98%). Each circular contains the
caption "purpose of issue." In the bonds circular the
statement is "These bonds are issued by the corporation
in connection with the acquisition of properties, and to
provide cash for developments, extensions and other corporate purposes." There is a like statement in the other
circular as to the purpose of the notes. Investors were
informed that the appraisals of the engineers covering
the properties of the corporation, including working capital of $365,000, aggregate $7,038,000, the properties exaniined by Davis being appraised at $1,743,520, and those
examined by his successors at $4,929,787. The circulars
as first drafted lumped the two appraisals as if they had
been the work of the two appraisers j9intly. Davis
objected, with the result that the appraisals becafme
several.
In the meantime Duquesne was preparing the resolutions and agreements that would be necessary to satisfy
the bankers. On March 5, 1930, the directors, 'still dominated by Furlaud, authorized the increase of the capital
stock to 1,250,000 shares. On April 3, Furlaud subscribed
for 139,000 shares at 50 cents a share. On April 7, Duquesne agreed with Kingston to take over the gas fields
covered by the options as soon as Kingston got the title.
The consideration was to be cash in the sum of $3,015,000
(Which was $565,100 more than Kingston was expected
to pay to the grantors); bonds of the par value of $1,300,-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

000, part of the forthcoming issue; and 535,000 shares of
no-par stock. On the same day there was an agreement
between Duquesne and Furlaud whereby Furlaud agreed
to take all the forthcoming mortgage notes ($1,000,000)
at a price of 88%; and $2,700,000 mortgage bonds at a
price of 90%. The whole issue of mortgage bonds was
thus divided up between Furlaud and its subsidiary,
Kingston, $2,700,000 to the one and $1,300,000 to the
other. Furlaud and Kingston being one, the situation
was the same in substance. as if Furlaud had taken them
all.
The public offering of the bonds was a spectacular success. It began on March 25. By the first week of April
subscriptions of the par value of $2,350,000 were on hand,
and other subscriptions were coming in from day to day.
The responses made it clear that an avid and credulous
public would absorb the entire issue. Furlaud could safely
go ahead and exercise the options, for at the pace subscriptions were coming in the proceeds of the bonds would
pay for all the gas lands and leave a handsome margin
over. Even so, there was need of ingenuity to work out
a plan that would synchronize the two transactions, the
cashing of the subscriptions and the payment for the
lands. The cash would not be paid on the subscriptions
till'the bonds with the deed of trust were ready for delivery, and delivery was impossible until' Duquesne, the
mortgagor, had title to the fields. A way had to be found
for providing the money necessary to get possession of
the deeds, which had been placed by the grantors in
escrow with banks in Western Pennsylvania. A way
had to be found also for making the proceeds of the subscriptions available as a fund that could be applied with
a minimum of delay upon account of the purchase price.
To those ends Maxime Furlaud made arrangements with
the Central Hanover Bank & Trust Company of New
York that for one day the Kingston Corporation should

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

have a credit with the trust company of $3,015,000, and
the Furlaud Company for the same time a credit of $3,379,500. The day chosen for that purpose was April 9.
The credits would be used to procure title to the lands

and to supply the new corporation with a fund of working capital. The subscriptions would be used so far as
possible to liquidate the credits. Precautions were taken
to make certain that the credits would be applied to the
expected uses and not otherwise. In the words of a
witness, "the bank always had a string on the money."
The appointed day arrived. Kingston drew against
the credit of $3,015,000 set up in its favor, and delivered
certified checks to banks in New York with which to meet
drafts drawn on those banks by the banks in Western
Pennsylvania. The amount thus withdrawn was $2,449,900. On report by telephone and telegraph that
the checks had been received the Pennsylvania banks
released the deeds from escrow and caused them to be
placed on record. Title being thereby vested in the mortgagor, the mortgage bonds were handed over to the trust
company for transmission to the banking houses that had
collecteq the subscriptions. A long queue of messengers,
employed by these houses, was on hand throughout the
day with checks from the subscribers for delivery against
the bonds. Nearly $2,000,000 (if the defendants' figures
are accepted, $1,886,330) was paid then and there upon
account of the subscriptions with other payments close
at hand. What was paid from these sources was turned
over to Furlaud, who applied it at once toward the
liquidation of the loan.
The loan had been fixed at the precise amount necessary to enable Furlaud to discharge its obligations to Duquesne. Of the credit for account of Furlaud, $2,430,000
was used to pay for $2,700,000 bonds at 90; $880,000 for
$1,000,000 notes at 88; and $69,500 for 139,000 shares of
stock pt'50 cents a share ($3,379,500 in all). But Du-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

quesne was no sooner in receipt kof the money than it paid
the greater part out again. Of the $3,379,500, $3,015,000
was paid back to the Trust Company to be credited to
the.acount of Kingston. This canceled the Kingston
loan, reimbursed the Trust Company for the $2,449,900
withdrawn earlier in the day to obtain title to the lands,
and left $565,100 over. This balance was not kept by
Kingston. It was transferred at once to Furlaud; the
circuit was then complete.
Furlaud had been well assured, when it closed the title,
on April 9, that there would be no difficulty in disposing
of every bond and note. The event justified its faith.
Within a few weeks all the remaining bonds had been converted into cash. Also within a few weeks the notes had
been sold in bulk for $861,097.69 to a firm of investment
bankers. Even the worthless shares of stock were unloaded on the public. The shares that were to go to
Kingston (535,000) and those that were to go to Furlaud (139,000) were taken in the name of Parisette, one
of Furlaud's employees. Of the part belonging to Kingston, 85,000 shares were assigned to the Byron and the
Chaucer companies, which sold them to the public through
Bergen, .astock operator, for $850,000, $425,000 being paid
to Byron and a like amount to Chaucer. What became
of the other shares the record does not show.
Checks and credits have now been traced through
their
bewildering entanglements. None the less when the
process of analysis is over, it is legitimate to forget the
details, and fix our minds on the results. The situation
can be simplified without obscuring its essential features.
Indeed only in that way will the realities of what was
done be manifest.
After all the circuits ha.d been traveled from one company to another and back to the point of origin, what had
.been accomplished for. Duquesne and Furlaud stood out
in clear relief. Duquesne had the ownership of gas fields,

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

worth at cost about $2,500,000, though extravagantly appraised at many millions more. It had also $365,000 for
working capital. -True it had received $3,379,500, but it
had paid out at once $3,015,000. The working capital was
the difference ($364,500) together with $500 received for
the first issue of its shares. These are the credit items
that any balance sheet must show. The liabilities were
the bonds and notes and the no-par shares of stock. The
bonds and notes, when distributed to the public, became
liens for $5,000,000, more than $2,000,000 in excess of the
cost of all the assets with working capital included. The
shares of stock, issued in vast quantities, had nothing of
substance back of them. If cost and value were about the
same, there was thus insolvency at the beginning as well
as at the end, unless the proceeds of the securities were
devoted to the uses of the debtor, as the circulars published in the newspaper in effect stated they would be.
Nothing of the kind was done. The bonds and the notes,
instead of being used by Furlaud and its allies for the
benefit of Duquesne, were disposed of as their own and at
a large profit to themselves. The record supports the inference that some of the shares of stock were used in the
same way. The promoters and their confederates pocketed the spoils. Less than two years later the victimized
company was in the hands of a receiver.
The District Judge held that the appraisal of the Duquesne assets was excessive and fraudulent. "There is
little doubt," he said, "that the circulars which Furlaud
& Company, Inc., issued in connection with the sale and
distribution of the bonds and notes of Duquesne Gas Corporation grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the
value of the property by which they were secured." He
held also that by force of the statements in the circulars
as to "the purpose of the issue," the proceeds of the
subscriptions were chargeable with a trust for the benefit
of Duquesne and the holders of its mortgage debt. Re

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

gave judgment against Furlaud individually (the Furlaud
Company was then dissolved) and also against Kingston
for $1,554,779.73, with interest (a total of $1,834,640.08),•
which was the difference between the moneys realized
by the promoters through the sale of bonds and notes
($4,492,768.73), and the amount paid to Duquesne and devoted to its proper uses ($2,937,989). He refused to give
judgment against any of the defendants for the proceeds
of the shares of stock. There were cross appeals to the
Circuit Court of'Appeals for the Second Circuit, Furlaud
individually and Kingston appealing from the decree in
so far as it held them accountable for the proceeds of the
bonds and notes, and the receiver from so much of the
decree as relieved all the defendants from liability growing out of the disposition of the shares. Upon the first
hearing of the cause, the Court of Appeals declined to
pass upon the merits and dismissed the bill on the ground
that the appointment of the ancillary receiver was void
for want of jurisdiction. 68 F. (2d) 925. This-court reversed, and remanded the cause for a determination of
the merits. 293 U. S. 67. Upon a second hearing in the
Court of Appeals the defendants were again, the victors.
The court took the view that Furlaud and Kingston had
acted with the knowledge and consent of. Duquesne, the
promoters and their agents being then the only shareholders, and that under the doctrine of Old Dominion
Copper Co. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206, the corporation,
its incoming shareholders an the receiver were bound by
that consent, whatever remedies might be available at
the suit of a defrauded creditor. 75 F. (2d) 977. A
second writ of certiorari brings the case to us again.
Promhoters of a corporation stand in a fiduciary relation
to it to this extent at least, that they will be chargeable
as trustees if they deal with it unconscionably or oppressively or in violation of a statute, unless the liability for
such misconduct has been effectually released. Dicker-

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

man v. Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181, 203, 204;
Brewster v. Hatch, 122 N. Y. 349, 362; 25 N. E. 505;
Erlanger v. New Sombrero Phosphate Co., 3 App. Cas.
1218, affirming 5 Ch. Div. 73; Gluckstein. v. Barnes,
[1900] A. C. 240; Yeiser v. United States Boarf & Paper
Co., 107 Fed. 340, 344. To what extent the approval of
all the shareholders will relieve them of that burden is a
question not susceptible of answer without considering
the nature of the wrong and the interests affected. To
some extent their position is akin to that of directors,
though the limits of their duty are less definite and certain. Even for erring directors, however, there may at
times be absolution if all the shareholders are satisfied.
Holmes v. Willard, 125 N. Y. 75; 25 N. E. 1083. The interests affected by approval will shape the power to approve.
Old Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn was a case
where promoters made a sale to a corporation in return
for shares of stock, the par value of the shares being
greatly in excess of the cost to the sellers of the property
conveyed. The existence of this profit was known to the
shareholders, for the shares belonging to the promoters
were all that had then been issued. There was no evidence that the effect of the transaction was to make the
company insolvent or to work a fraud upon its creditors
or to divert the assets to forbidden uses or to violate a
statute. "At the time of the sale to the plaintiff ' . .
there was no wrong done to any one." 210 U. S. at p.
212. The grantors and their syndicate "were on both
sides of the bargain, and they might issue to themselves
as much stock in the corporation as they liked in exchange
for their conveyance of their land." 210 U. S. at p. 212.
Far from planning to defraud, "they believed in the enterprise" and "preferred to take stock at par rather than
cash." 210 U. S. at p. 215. They had paid for the mines
with their own money, and there were no creditors to be

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

affected by anything they did. In such circumstances
the ruling was that incopning shareholders, subscribing for
new shares, were in the plight of those ahead of them and
vavis v. Las Ovas Co., 227
could have no better case.
U. S. 80, declined to extend the ruling to a case where
the approval was by less than all the shareholders and
without disclosure of the facts to others.
Old Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn does not rule the
case at hand. The effect of the promoters' conduct here
was to saddle the company with liens beyond the value
of its assets, mortgaged and unmortgaged. Through the
diversion of the proceeds of the subscriptions to the use
of Furlaud and confederates, the company became crippled and indeed insolvent at the outset of its business
life. True, the findings of the District Court do not state
in so many words that the company in its beginnings was
insolvent as well as crippled. They do state, however,
that the appraisals were grossly and fraudulently and
wantonly excessive. Cost in and of itself, though far from
conclusive, is still evidence of value (Parmenter v. Fitzpatrick, 135 N. Y 190, 199; 31 N. E. 1032), especially
where there is no market value in the strict or proper
sense. SinclairRefining Co. v. Jenkins Petroleum Process
Co., 289 U. S. 689, 697. In this case a witness for the
complainant places a valuation upon the property in substantial correspondence with the cost. There is no opposing evidence in behalf of the defendants, and so the District Judge points out. In that state of the record, the
promoters had the burden of answering and repelling the
inculpatory evidence by proof that they had been true to
their fiduciary duties and that their conduct had been
fair and just. Geddes y. Anaconda Copper Mining Co.,
254 U. S. 590, 599; Matter of Smith, 95 N. Y. 516, 522;
Allen v. La Vaud, 213 N. Y. 322, 326; 107 N. E. 570.
The public had been invited to invest in the securities
on the representation that the proceeds would be used

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

for the purchase of the lands and for cash capital necessary or useful for.the business. In fact about three-fifths
of the money was-applied to the designated uses, the rest
being kept for the use of the promoters. If this could be
done without cutting down the value of the assets below
the mortgage debt, the act would be so near to magic as to
call for explanation from promoters not professing to be
magicians. No word of explanation was offered at the
trial or is now suggested in the briefs. In those conditions, only one legitimate inference was open to the trier
of the facts, and this he must be taken to have drawn.
The appraisals having been shown to be fraudulent, the
one legitimate inference to be drawn from the defendants'
silence was that the value of the lands was not greater
than the cost, at least in any large amount. If that be so,
the company was made insolvent at the outset when the
proceeds of the subscriptions were devoted to the use of
the promoters.
No consent of shareholders could make such conduct
'lawful when challenged by the receiver as the representative of creditors. If the shareholders and the directors
had combined with the promoters to despoil the corporation and defeat the remedies of creditors by a gift of half
the assets, the gift could have been annulled either by
the creditors directly or in their behalf by a receiver.
Casey v. Cavaroc, 96 U. S. 467, 489, 490; Atlantic Trust
Co. v. Chapman, 208 U. S. 360, 371; Hamor v. TaylorRice Engineering Co., 84 Fed. 392, 399; American Can
Co. v. Erie Preserving Co., 171 Fed. 540, 542; Sweet v.
Lang, 14 F. (2d) 758, 760; Gillet v. Moody, 3 N. Y. 479;
Pittsburg Carbon Co. v. McMillin, 119 N. Y. 46, 53; 23
N. E. 530. The distinction between such a situation and
the present is one solely of degree. This is not a case
where at the time of issuing the securities the shareholders
and the promoters were the only ones concerned. Here
at the moment of the conveyance the interests of bond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

holders and noteholders were put in jeopardy by a diversion of the proceeds that would make. their mortgage
worthless. The promoters could not receive for themselves otr deliver to subscribers the bonds and notes of
the company secured by deed of trust until title had been
acquired to the lands covered by the deed. On the other
hand, they could not pay the purchase price and acquire
title to the lands without the proceeds of subscriptions,
the contributions of the public. All this was known to
the shareholders and known to the directors, for the promoters were the shareholders and the directors men of
straw. In its effect upon subscribers the transaction was
the same as if the proceeds of the bonds and notes had
Neen paid into the treasury of the company and then
paid out to the directors for the use of their confederates.
It was not within the power of the shareholders to legalize this waste to the detriment of others. It would not
have been within their power to bring that result to passthough shareholders and promoters had been different
persons, acting at arm's length. Still more clearly it was
not within their power when shareholders and promoters
were in substance the same persons. Cf. California-Cal'averas Mining Co. v. Walls, 170 Cal. 285, 299; 149 Pac.
595; Pittsburg Mining Co. v. Spooner, 74 Wis. 307;'42
N. W. 259. Consent in such conditions, so far as it gives
approval to conduct in fraud of the rights of others, is a
word and nothing more. It is not in concord with realities. There is no occasion to consider whether the corporation itself at the instance of new shareholders would
be permitted to disaffirm the fraud and maintain a suit
in equity fof appropriate relief. We put that question by.
Ehough that the receiver has the requisite capacity. A
court of equity has taken hold of the assets of this company,' intangible assets as well as tangible, for administration as a trust in accordance with equitable principles.
Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S. 371, 380.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

Included in those assets are moneys fraudulently diverted
to the prejudice of creditors. Cf. McClure v. Law, 161
N. Y. 78; 55 N. -E. 388; Bosworth v. Allen, 168 N. Y.
157, 166; 61 N. E. 163. There is power at the instaince of
the receiver to bring them back into the trust.
These considerations without more would separate Old
Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn from the case before
us now. Other aspects of the present case accentuate the
division. What was done by the promoters here was in
the teeth of a prohibition of the Constitution of Pennsylvania, the state where the corporation was formed and
where its business was to be done. The Constitution of
Pennsylvania provides (Art. 16, § .7): "...
no corporation shall issue stocks or bonds except for money, labor
done, or money or property actually received; and all
fictitious increase of stock or indebtedness shall be void."
See also Act of April 17, 1876, P. L. 30, 32, § 4; Purdon's
Penna. Stats., Title 15, § 131. The prohibition is not
escaped through the receipt of some property or money
if the amount or value is inadequate. Big Spring Electric
Co. v. Kitzmiller, 268 Pa. 34, 38; 110 Atl. 783 Commonwealth v. Reading Traction Co., 204 Pa. 151 53 Atl. 755;
In re Wyoming Valley Ice Co., 153 Fed. 787, 793; affirmed
sub nom. Wiegand v. Albert Lewis Lumber & Mfg. Co.,
158 Fed. 608, 610. True, the securities are valid in the
hands of innocent purchasers, whatever the consideration
(Guarantee T. & T. Co. v. Dilworth Coal Co., 235 Pa.
594; 84 Atl. 516), but the liability of the directors or
other fiduciaries who have put them int6 circulation is
not thereby released. There are decisions in Pennsylvania that the Constitution ip not self-executing. Grange
National Bank v. Collman, 306 Pa. 200; 159 Atl. 26.
That holding is irrelevant as to corporations such as this
one, for there exists as to them an "implementing"
statute (Purdon's Pernta. Stats., supra), without restriction as to the
form of remedy. Precedents exist for a
1 1
33682°--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

suit at the instance of incoming shareholders, though the
corporation was solvent and there was no injury to creditors. Spangler Brewing Co. v. McHenry, 242 Pa. 522, at*
p. 530; 89 Atl. 665. Precedents exist in cases of insolvency for a suit by a trustee as the representative of
/creditors, and this though they became such after the
securities were issued. Bingaman v. Commonwealth
Trust Co., 15 F. (2d) 119 (D. C. M. D. Pennsylvania),
and cases there collected; cf. Coleman v. Tepel, 230 Fed.
63, 70 (C. C. A. 3), affirming 229 Fed. 300; In re Wyoming
Valley Ice Co., supra; Krebs v. Oberrender, 274 Pa. 154;
118 Atl. 19; Finletterv. Acetylene Light Co., 215 Pa. 86;
64 Atl. 429. Nowhere is it held that delinquent fiduciaries who have nullified the statute may keep the profits
for themselves when creditors will be injured unless the
profits are returned. At times and for certain purposes
the consent ofshareholders may give validity to acts that
would otherwise be voidable, if the only interests affected
are those of the shareholders consenting. It can never be
operative to the prejudice of others where consent is in
derogation of the public policy of the state or the prohibition of a statute. Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 59, 60; Kent v. Quicksilver
Mining Co., 78 N. Y. 159, 185, 186, 187; Sheldon H. B.
Co. v. Eickemeyer H. B. M. Co., 90 N. Y. 607, 613; Mann
v. Edinburgh Northern Tramways Co. [House of Lords],
68 L. T. (N. S.) 96; Society of Practical Knowledge v.
Abbott, 2 Beav. 559, 568. This case is plainly within the
scope of that exception. There was here a statutory prohibition, rooted in public policy. Gearhart v. Standard
Steel Car Co., 223 Pa. 385, 389; 72 Atl. 699. The shareholders were not at liberty, at all events to the prejudice
of creditors or other shareholders, present or prospective,
to set that policy at naught. If the effect of what they
did was to put illicit profits in the pockets of trustees.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

their consent will not avail to block pursuit and

reclamation.
We have assumed in all this that the corporation was
insolvent at the beginning of its business life. The assumption is well founded for reasons already stated, vet
we do not need to go so far. Even though the company
was not literally insolvent, the result would be the same.
There would be a wrong to bondholders and noteholders
if assets were depleted to the very brink of insolvency
after fraudulent misrepresentations to the effect that there
was an ample margin of security. What was taken out
of the company in such circumstances would be taken
subject to a trust and would so continue until the security thus depleted had paid the debt in full. The defendants do not assert that it is adequate for that today. Confusion of thought is inevitable unless the position of the
wrongdoers as trustees is steadily kept in mind. What is
here is something more than a tort of fraudulent representations to be redressed by the recovery of damages at
the suit of the defrauded creditors. What is here is a
tort growing out of the fraudulent depletion of the assets
by men chargeable as trustees if they have failed to act
with honor. There are important differences, moreover,
between an overissue of stock, which may leave the assets

unimpaired, and a withdrawal of cash, which puts the
enterprise in peril. Cf. Arnold v. Searing, 78 N. J. Eq.
146, 162; 78 Atl. 762; id., 73 N. J. Eq. 262, 265, 266; 67
Atl. 831; Eureka Mining Co. v. Lively, 59 Wash. 550;
110 Pac. 425. The duty of reclaiming assets so diverted
and holding the wrongdoers to their duty as trustees is
one that rests on the receiver. It is not within the power
of wrongdoers and shareholders by any compact between
themselves to make the duty less.
In considering the effect of Old Dominion Copper Co.
v. Lewisohn, we have spoken until now of the bonds and

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

notes only. It is necessary at this point to say something
about the stock. Of the total issue, 535,000 shares went
to Kingston as a bonus. The only pretense of value was
a conveyance of the gas fields covered by the options,
which were worth, as we have seen, no more than Kingston paid for them. In return for the conveyance of these
lands Kingston received $3,015,000 in cash or more than
the actual value of anything conveyed. It also received
bonds of the par value of $1,300,000; and last of all the
stock. Plainly the stock was a bonus and nothing else.
Furlaud and Kingston, having made themselves parties
to a scheme whereby Duquesne was to be despoiled and
its creditors were to be defrauded, became accountable,
we think, for everything that came to them as a result
of the conspiracy in excess of the consideration furnished
on their side. They were not trustees as to the bonds and
notes, and lawful owners of the shares, but trustees as
to all, the transaction being a unit, infected with a common vice. Everything of profit arising out of the abused
relation must now be yielded up. Even after this is done,
reparation will be incomplete. Restitution of the profits
will not make up, without more, for the inadequacy of
the overvalued land to return to the lienors their principal
and interest. In such circumstances the shares like the
bonds and notes must contribute what they can. The
certificates, were they on hand, might be turned into the
treasury of the company for sale, if they still had any
value. The shares having been sold to others and the
certificates being no longer subject to the mandate of the
court, the trust that attached to them has been transferred to the proceeds, which when paid to the receiver
will be used like other assets in reduction of the debts.
We are not unmindful of the contention that the sale
by Kingston was at the rate of 50 cents a share (which for
85,000 shares would amount to $42,500), and that the sale
for $850,000 was made by two other corporations, the

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

Byron and the Chaucer. In view of the initial fraud the
burden was on Kingston and Furlaud to show that Byron
and Chaucer were purchasers in due course, and not agents
and confederates wearing the cloak of purchasers. King
v. Doane, 139 U. S. 166,-173; CanajoharieNational Bank
v. Diefendorf, 123 N. Y. 191, 204, 205; 25 N. E. 402;
Seymour v. McKinstry, 106 N. Y. 230, 240; 12 N. E. 348.
We think that Byron and Chaucer were subject to an
equal burden. Many suspicious circumstances point to
guilty knowledge and justify a holding that the burden
has not been borne.
The respondents make the point that Maxime Furlaud
is not subject to personal liability for wrongs committed
by the Furlaud Company or Kingston. He was the head
and front of the conspiracy. For anything done in fulfilment of the common purpose either by himself or by
any of the corporations dominated by him, he and his
confederates are liable in solido. Mack v. Latta, 178
N. Y. 525, 532; 71 N. E. 97; Anderson v. Daley, 38 App.
Div. 505; 50 N. Y. S. 511; id., 159 N. Y. 146; 53'N. E.
753; Irving Trust Co. v. Deutsch, 73 F. (2d) 121, 123;
Jackson v. Smith, 254 U. S. 586, 589.
The objection is also made that testimony as to the value
of the lands should have been excluded by the court as
not within the pleadings. The complaint was based upon
the theory that the promoters had been guilty of unconscionable conduct. Whether that was so could not be
known without exploring the transaction to the depths and
all the circumstances attending it. To this it may be
added that the trial judge received the testimony provisionally and subject to a motion to strike when all the
evidence was in. The motion was not made. Nor at, any
stage of the trial was there a motion to dismiss on the
ground of a variance between the pleading and the proof.
Another objection is that the defendants should have
been credited with expenses for commissions, attorneys'

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

fees, printing disbursements and the like, expenses incidental, it is claimed, to the acquisition of the lands. A
fund of $300,000 was set aside for that purpose. The
record makes it clear, however, that only a part of this
fund was necessary for expenses of any kind and that only
a small part of the expenses, if any, were of such a nature
as to be permissible deductions for parties to a fraud. It
is likely that some items would be allowable, if properly
identified. Loos v. Wilkinson, 113 N. Y. 485, 499; 21
N. E. 392; Frank v. Von Bayer, 236 N. Y. 473, 477, 478;
141 N. E. 920; Randolph v. Scruggs, 190 U. S. 533, 539.
The difficulty is that we are unable on this record to determine their amount. The judge might have required
the defendants to separate the good from the bad while
the case was still on trial. Instead of doing this he put
the defendants off their guard by saying that matters of
that sort would be reserved for an accounting. Unless
the receiver and the defendants find it possible to agree
as to the allowance for expenses, an accounting will be
necessary to determine what part of the $300,000, the total
amount reserved, is an appropriate deduction.
Other objections put forward in argument at the bar
can be dismissed in a few words.
If and when the defendants shall restore to the receiver
the moneys taken unto themselves, it will be time enough
to consider problems as to the marshalling of assets between creditors who were such at the commission of the
wrong and those of lbter date. No attempt is made to
forecast the answer now. The principles that govern the
distribution of assets conveyed in fraud of creditors, present or prospective, and after such conveyance reclaimed
by a'receiver, are adequate to work out justice; however
great the complications.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

Opinion of the Court.

We find it immaterial that the defendants or some of
them may be liable to creditors in common law actions
to recover damages for false representations as to the
value of the assets. That is not the basis of the suit
before us now. Moreover, the question is not here
whether restitution of illicit profits as the outcome of this
suit may be proved to mitigate the damages in actions
by other plaintiffs, if any such there are. As we have
striven to make clear, the receiver does not claim to
have succeeded to the rights of bondholders- or noteholders to recover damages for deceit. The wrong that
is here redressed is the unlawful depletion of the assets
whereby the company was made insolvent and the creditors were defrauded of their lawful rights and remedies.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing
the decree of the District Court and dismissing the bill
of complaint is reversed.
The decree of the District Court is modified by increasing the recovery against the defendants Maxime H.
Furlaud and the Kingston Corporation in the sum of
$850,000 with interest from June 6, 1930, when the shares
of stock were sold, and by the award of judgment against
the Byron Corporation in the sum of $425,000 with interest from June 6, 1930, and against the Chaucer Corporation for the same amount.
There will be a further modification by the allowance
to the defendants Furlaud and the Kingston Corporation
of so much of the sum of $300,000 as may be found on
an accounting to have been disbursed for expenses that
are chargeable in equity '.) the Duquesne Corporation,
unless the amount of such allowance is fixed by agreement, approved by the court to which the receiver is accountable, in which event the judgment against those defendants shall be reduced accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

The decree of the District Court as thus modified is
affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS, dissenting.
I think that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
should be affirmed. I concur in the view that the promoters of Duquesne Gas Corporation took an unconscionable profit which they reaped at the expense of a
credulous and avid purchasing public. This fact, however much it may invite animadversion, ought not to
induce the courts to disregard settled principles in an
effort to deprive the respondents of the fruits of their
scheme.
An examination of the pleadings and the facts found
leads me to the conclusion that the receiver of the corporation is without standing to recover from the promoters.
The bill recites in somewhat different sequence the
facts which are set out in the opinion of the court. It
does not state that the properties were not worth the
amount in bonds, stocks, and cash which the Duquesne
corporation paid for them. It fails to allege any fraudulent misrepresentation on the part of the respondents to
purchasers of bonds or stock of the corporation. The
allegation is made that Furlaud & Company, Inc. was,
in the sale of the securities, a house of issue, meaning, of
course, that it purchased the securities and resold them for
its own account. Although the facts pleaded demonstrate
that for some time after the organization of the Duquesne Corporation and the issuance of its bonds and
stock Furlaud & Company, Inc., by itself and its subsidiaries, was the owner of every share of stock and every
bond issued and outstanding, the bill asseverates, first,
that the profit obtained on the sales of securities was a
secret profit for which Furlaud and associates are accountable to the receiver and, secondly, that they stood in a
fiduciary relation to Duquesne and "caused all the pro-

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

ceeds of the sale of the bonds and notes in excess of
$2,937,989, plus legitimate expenses, to be diverted from
the Duquesne Corporation for whose use and benefit the
proceeds of the sale of said bonds and notes were intended
and defendants Furlaud and Reuter fraudulently misappropriated said moneys to their own use." The last
assertion is the nearest approach to an allegation of
agency or trust for or on behalf of the corporation. The
prayer is for an accounting by the defendants of the
moneys received by them, apparently on the theory that
such moneys were received as agents for the corporation.
On its face the pleading is self-contradictory. If what
the defendants took constituted promoters' profits the bill
discloses that these were not secret profits taken tf the
disadvantage of innocent stockholders who had been
brought into the corporation. Furlaud & Company and
the other defendants were on both sides of the transaction and cannot be said to have deceived themselves as
stockholders and bondholders and, upon familiar principles, those who took title to stock or bonds through
them cannot assert rights higher than theirs. If, on the
other hand, Furlaud & Company was a house of issue,
dealing on its own account, it cannot have been an agent
of Duquesne for the sale of bonds and stock.
The District Court denied a motion to make the pleading more specific and certain and the cause went to trial
on the bill and answers. The proofs disclosed in detail
the mechanics of the transaction whereby the promoters,
at an expenditure of something in excess of $3,000,000,
acquired $4,000,000 par value of first mortgage bonds,
$1,000,000 of secured notes, and 675,000 shares of no-par
common stock. Evidence was offered to prove that, at
the date of the transfer, the property acquired was worth
not to exceed $2,700,000. The defendants objected to
this evidence on the ground that it was unsupported by
any allegation in the bill. The court, nevertheless, received the proof and relied upon it for certain conclusions.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

There was also evidence that in the bond circulars issued
by the defendants as a house of issue, and by a syndicate
of bankers formed by the defendants to sell the securities
to the public, these statements were made: that the properties had been appraised at something over $7,000,000
and that the bonds and notes were issued by the corporation "in connection with the acquisition of properties and
to provide cash for developments, extensions and other
corporate purposes." The proofs conclusively show, and
it is not disputed, that Furlaud & Company, upon its
individual credit and that of its subsidiary, the Kingston
Corporation, obtained the funds with which to make settlement for the bonds, notes, and stock with the Duquesne Corporation and reimbursed themselves for these
loans out of moneys paid by brokers in the purchase of
the securities.
It is quite true that Furlaud & Company, Inc. had,
prior to receipt of the bonds, notes and stock, arranged
for the sale of the bulk of the bonds to brokerage houses
when, if, and as issued. This, however, is not an uncommon method of dealing and in itself is insignificant so
far as the fairness or unfairness of the transaction goes.
In its final analysis the situation comes, as the District
Court indicated, to this: that Furlaud & Company, Inc.
advanced the purchase money for the gas properties, contributed $364,500 to Duquesne as working capital and in
return received the securities. The court added that if
without the circuity here resorted to Furlaud & Company,
Inc. had thus bought the securities direct at an inordinately low price they could havp done with them as they
pleased. It held that they could not do with them aS they
pleased because of the method of settlement with the
corporation to which they resorted. There is no specific
finding by the District Court of fraud or misrepresentation on the part of Furlaud & Company, Inc., in the sale
of the bonds. What is said is that the circulars misrepre-

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

sented the facts. There is no finding that any present
bondholder relied on any misrepresentation. Although it
is insisted that Duquesne was insolvent from the moment
of the settlement with Furlaud & Company, Inc. there
is no finding to that effect. The District Court held that
the promoters stood in a fiduciary relation to the corporation. It made no finding that the purchasers of bonds
and notes were induced to purchase by inisrepresentation; made no finding of loss or damage to such purchasers; made no finding that the purchasers understood
Furlaud & Company, Inc. were acting as agents for Duquesne in the sale of its securities; but reached the conclusion, without any evidence to support it, that those
who purchased bonds and notes from the promoters
understood that the money which they paid in the purchase of the securities was to go in solido into the treasury
of Duquesne. A moment's reflection will show that this
could not have been the case. The very circulars which
were issued, and on which the bonds were sold, showed
that they were not being sold for par and that commissions were being paid for their sale. It is quite evident
from the circulars that these commissions were not being
paid by Duquesne but by the brokers who were selling
the bonds as principals.
Upon principle, and upon authority, the corporation
had no cause of action in the circumstances against the
promoters and the receiver's rights could rise no higher.
First. The District Court held, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals concurred, that the promoters were not answerable in respect of the no par value common stock
issued to them and thereafter sold by them. This Court
reverses the holding and makes them liable to account for
all they received for the stock. This is in the teeth of Old
Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206. There,
as here, stock was issued for property. The claim was
that the property was worth vastly less than the par of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

the stock issued for it. Additional shares were later subscribed for by the public. This Court, in a unanimous
opinion, speaking by Mr. Justice Holmes, held that any
wrong which had been done to the innocent subscribers
could not be redressed in an action by the corporation.
Here we have a much stronger case, for all the stock was
subscribed for and taken by the promoters. There were
no innocent subscribers. In such a situation the courts
with practical unanimity hold that the corporation has no
right of action.1
Second. On its face the transaction under investigation
amounted to this and nothing more: The promoters paid
themselves an exorbitant price in bonds, notes, stock, and
cash for property which they turned over to the corporation they had promoted. The bonds and notes thus acquired they sold in the open market and as principals. If
in such sale they misrepresented the value of the security
they are liable to those whom they deceived. This is not
denied. It was stated at the bar that numerous actions
had been brought against them on this basis. Although
purporting to be purchasers of securities and sellers of the
same in turn for their own account, they are now converted into trustees for the corporation which corporation they were in essence at the time of the transaction
and which corporation had, therefore, full and complete
knowledge of every factor in the transaction. This again
is in the teeth of Old Dominion Copper Co. v. Lewisohn,
supra.
In support of its holding the court cites Dickerman v.
Northern Trust Co., 176 U. S. 181; Brewster v. Hatch,
122 N. Y. 349; 25 N. E. 505; Erlanger v. New Sombrero
Phosphate Co., 3 App. Cas. 1218; Gluckstein v. Barnes
[1900] A. C. 240; and Yeiser v. United States Board &
1 See

the authorities collected in the annotation to Hays v. The

Georgian,Inc. (280 Mass. 10; 181 N. E. 765) 85 A. L. R. 1263-1265.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

Paper Co., 107 Fed. 340. An examination of the opinion
in the Old Dominion Copper Company case will show that
it was there said the relevant observations in the Dickerman case were obiter and could not control the case in
hand; that the New Sombrero Phosphate case and the
Gluckstein case were distinguishable, as was the Yeiser
case, the latter on the ground that the transaction was
carried through after innocent subscribers had paid for
stock; and that Blum v. Whitney, 185 N. Y. 232; 77 N. E.
1159, (a later case than the New York case relied upon by
the majority) was properly cited in support of this court's
decision. The facts just stated clearly indicate that the
decision now made in effect overrules the Old Dominion
case. The so called fiduciary relation of promoters may be
availed of by the corporation only in virtue of the equity
of innocent stockholders defrauded by the promoters'
scheme. So holds the Old Dominion case, and so hold
many auth6rities which are in accord. It is said that the
right of the corporation to pursue the promoters depends
upon the circumstances under which the stockholders gave
their consent to the transaction involved in the promoters'
scheme. Nothing is disclosed in the opinion of the court
to differentiate this case from the Old Dominion case save
that, as asserted, but not found below, the transaction
caused insolvency to the Duquesne Corporation and the
suit is here brought by a receiver.
Third. It is of course true that a receiver represents
creditors and stockholders; but the proposition is true
only in the sense that what he recovers as assets of his
corporation is dedicated first to the payment of creditors
and afterwards to the liquidation of outstanding shares.
It has never been doubted that his right of action for a
fraud committed upon the corporation by a third person
is no greater than and no different from that available to
the corporation. It is a novel doctrine that, if individual
creditors have at the date of the receivership their own

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

causes of action against third parties for fraud or misrepresentation, upon the appointment of a receiver these
causes of action are assigned in law to the receiver. We
know of no authority for such a proposition and none is
cited in the opinion of the court. Courts which have
considered the question have decided against the right of a
receiver to maintain a suit such as this one.'
The opinion goes further, and holds not only that these
individual causes of action may be grouped in the receiver,
but that he as assignee is not subject to the rules as to
allegation and proof by which the bondholder would be
bound in an action for fraud, misrepresentation or deceit.
This is to confuse separate causes of action fundamentally
differing both in their substance and in their incidents.
Any amount recovered by the receiver in this action will
go into the corporate treasury and be distributed therefrom to the creditors of the corporation. It appears from
the record that the bondholders have brought a foreclosure
suit upon their mortgage. They will in that action first
avail themselves of the security pledged under the mortgage. They will become general creditors as to any
amount by which their security is deficient. The record
does not inform us how many such general creditors,sellers of merchandise, lenders on unsecured paper, or employees and the like,-there are. Certainly these have no
equity and no vestige of claim against the promoters arising out of the promotion of the Duquesne Corporation.
And yet a recovery here will inure to their benefit as well
as to that of the bondholders. If, as is said, the receiver
represents the bondholders, shall the obtaining of a decree
in this action operate as res judicata in the other actions
brought by bondholders and now pending? The opinion
2 Tompkins v. Sperry, Jones & Co., 96 Md. 560; 54 At. 254;
Bostwick v. Young, 118 App. Div. 490, 496; 103 N. Y. S. 607, affirmed 194 N. Y. 516; 87 N. E. 1115; Young v. Stevenson, 180 I1.
608; 54 N. E. 562.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
140

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

does not answer the question. It seems clear that a suit
by the receiver must be in the right of the corporation,
and that the most he can claim is what the corporation
could claim, namely, a derivative right of suit based upon
fraud perpetrated upon innocent shareholders who were
such at the time of the consummation of the scheme.
Upon the facts pleaded and proved there can be no such
derivative right in this case.
Fourth. We are told that the action may be maintained
by the petitioner in virtue of the fact that the transaction
was forbidden by a provision of the Constitution of Pennsylvania, and a statute passed to implement it, voiding
all fictitious increases of capital stock or indebtedness of
corporations and forbidding the issuance of stocks or bonds
except for work and labor done or money or property
actually received. The point was apparently not made
or considered below. It cannot avail the petitioner.
3
The constitutional provision is not self-executing.
There is nothing in the law of Pennsylvania justifying a
suit by a receiver in circumstances such as here disclosed
-to recover for the corporation alleged illicit profits; and
the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth has clearly
indicated that such a bill will not lie by the corporation
to recover for promoters' profits or alleged fraud in issuing stock at an overvaluation for property where, as here,
all the stockholders approved the transaction.4
As we have above pointed out, the receiver's rights can
in no way differ from those of the corporation. This
3

Yetter v. Delaware Valley R. Co., 206 Pa. 485; 56 At. 57; Grange

National Bank v. Collman, 306 Pa. 200; 159 Atl. 26.
4Spangler Brewing Co. v. McHenry, 242 Pa. 522, 529; 89 Atl. 665.
See also Wood v. Corry Water-Works Co., 44 Fed. 146 (U. S. C. C.
W. D. Pa.). In contrast, see McElhenny's Appeal, 61 Pa. 188; Densmore Oil Co. v. Densmore, 64 Pa. 43; Bailey v. Pittsburg & Connellsville Co., 69 Pa. 334, where there were innocent subscribers for shares,
who were ignorant of the profits taken by the promoters.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

Court ought not to create a trusteeship upon an assumption of a State policy which is not recognized by the courts
of the State.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,
and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concur in this opinion.

PACIFIC STATES BOX & BASKET CO. v. WHITE
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 48.

Argued October 25, 1935.-Decided November 18, 1935.

1. A State has power to prescribe the standards for the containers
in which horticultural products are marketed. P. 181.

2. An administrative order pursuant to a statute of Oregon prescribed containers for raspberries and strawberries, of specified
capacity and of a form commonly used in that State, and fixed
the dimensions. Held, against the complaint of a manufacturer
of containers of another type who made them in another State
and sold them in Oregon:
(1) That the regulation could not be considered arbitrary or
capricious in that it prescribed the form and dimensions, since
these bore reasonable relation to protection of buyers and to the
preservation and shipment of the fruit. Pp. 181-182.
(2) Whether it was necessary in Oregon to provide a standard
container for raspberries and strawberries; and, if so, whether
the one adopted should have been made mandatory, involve questions of fact and policy, the determination of which rests in the
legislative branch of the state government-a determination which
may be made, if the constitution of the State permits, by a subordinate administrative body. P. 182.
(3) The regulation is not in conflict with the Standard Baskets
and Containers Acts of May 21, 1928, and August 31, 1916. P. 182.
(4) The regulation did not operate to grant a monopoly to
manufacturers of the type of containers prescribed; and, moreover,
the grant of a monopoly, if otherwise an appropriate exercise of

