-CALLAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
502

515

Syllabus.

The court below was right in refusing a limitation of
liability and in holding that the applicants for employment who had been told to return on the morning in question were entitled to awards in this proceeding; but it
erred in denying awards according to the rules recognized
in admiralty to the surviving employees and personal
representatives of deceased employees of Kellogg & Sons,
and remitting them to their remedy under the New Jersey
Compensation Act. The decree is therefore reversed and
the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in
so much of the opinion as holds that limitation of liability
was rightly refused. They concur also in the conclusion
that Kellogg & Sons are liable in this proceeding, but they
do so upon the ground that the owner having invoked, as
stated, the jurisdiction in admiralty, it cannot be surrendered in favor of. that under the workmen's compensation law of the state.

MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

is of opinion

that the

petition in No. 444 is not well founded and that the decree
should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
CALLAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH4E
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 576.

Argued March 14, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

1. One who aids and abets importation of intoxicating: liquor contrary to § 3 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act, which
prohibits unlicensed importation, violates § 593 (b) of the Tariff

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
285 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Act of 1922, which provides that if any person knowingly assists
in importing into the United States any merchandise contrary to
law, he shall be punished as therein specified. P. 516.
2. Section 29 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act, which
provides that "Any person . ..who .. .violates any of the pro-

visions of this chapter, for which offense a special penalty is not
prescribed, shall be fined . . ." etc., is superseded as to forbidden

importation of liquor (for which the Act does not otherwise
prescribe a penalty) by § 593 (b) of the Tariff Act, a later statute
fixing a special penalty. P. 517.
53 F. (2d) 467, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 614, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a conviction and sentence for violation of the Tariff
Act of 1922 by aiding and abetting importation of intoxicating liquor contrary to law. See United States v. Newton, 36 F. (2d) 425.
Mr. Louis Halle, with whom Mr. Milton R. Kroopf
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Mr. John J. Byrne were on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner was indicted under § 593 (b) of the
Tariff Act of 1922,' for aiding and abetting the importation of intoxicating liquors contrary to law, the specified
illegality being violation of Title II, § 3, of the National
Prohibition Act.i In support of a demurrer he asserted
S. C., Tit. 19, § 497. "If any person fraudulently or knowingly imports or brings into the United States, or assists in so doing,
1U.

any merchandise, contrary to law . ..the offender shall be fined in

any sum not exceeding $5,000 nor less than $50, or be imprisoned for
any time pot exceeding two years, or both ...."
2 U.

S. C., Tit. 27, § 12.

"No person shall ...

import

. . .

any

intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this chapter.... Liquor

CALLAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
515

Opinion of the Court.

the indictment set forth an offense under the prohibition
act and failed to charge one under the cited section of the
tariff act; and was duplicitous as including offenses under
both statutes. The demurrer was overruled, trial and
conviction followed, and petitioner was sentenced under
• 593 (b). The circuit court of appeals affirmed the judgment, and this court granted certiorari.
We are asked to hold that one who violates the prohibition act by importing liquor, may not be indicted, tried'
and sentenced under the tariff act, which makes, the importation of "any merchandise contrary to law" a
criminal offense. The phrase "contrary to law" as used
in the later act is unqualified and taken in its natural
meaning signifies "contrary to any law," and hence contrary to the earlier prohibition act, so that a violation of
ihat act would be an offense within the other.
The petitioner urges that the National Prohibition Act
deals specifically with intoxicating liquor, prohibits its
importation and provides a penalty therefor; whereas the
tariff act is concerned with a wholly separate subject and
the penal section 593 (b) aimed at unlawful importation
should not be construed as repealing the earlier special
statute. (Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 570; Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S. 83, 87-89; Washington
v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, 428.) This argumert overlooks
the fact that the National Prohibition Act prescribes no
special penalty for importation in violation of its provisions. Section 29 of Title II,an omnibus section fixing
penalties for violations for which no special penalty is
forononbeverage purposes . . . may be . . . imported . ..but only
as herein provided, and the commissioner may, upon application,
issue permits therefor. ..."
'Section 401 of the Tariff Act (U. S. C., Tit. 19, § 231) provides:
"The word 'merchandise' means goods, wares, and chattels of every
description and includes merchandise the importation of which is
prohibited."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

prescribed, is the only one under which punishment could
be imposed for illegal importation.' The language used
is sufficiently broad to include specific penalties fixed in
other sections of the statute and also such as might be
imposed by separate legislation. The tariff act, a later
statute, fixes a definite penalty for one of the violations
grouped in the penal section of the earlier act. In this
respect it superseded the general provisions of the prior
statute embracing the same subject. Cook County National Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; Walla Walla
v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 22. The indictment charged an offense under the Tariff Act and the
judgment must be affirmed.'
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. SCHARTON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 621.

Argued March 22, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

Section 1110 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 sets a general limitation of three years upon the prosecution of " any of the various
offenses arising under the internal revenue laws . . . Provided,
That for offenses involving the defrauding or attempting to defraud the United States . . . in any manner, the period of limitation shall be six years. .. ." Held:
1. That the six year limitation is confined to cases in which fraud
is made an ingredient by the statute defining the offense; and
that it does not apply to the offense of wilfully attempting to evade
- U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 46. "Any person . . . who . . . violates any
of the provisions of this chapter, for which offense a special penalty
is not prescribed, shall be fined for a first offense not more than
$500...."
'See Kurczak v. United States, 14 F. (2d) 109; Dickerson v.
United States, 20 F. (2d) 901; Gorsuch v. United States, 34 F. (2d)
279.

