AMER. TRADING CO. v. ItEACOCK CO.

247

Syllabus.

AMERICAN TRADING CO. v. H. E. HEACOCK CO.*
TO THE

CERTIORARI

SUPREME

COURT OF THE

PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 506.

Argued February 26, 1932.-Decided March 21, 1932.

1. Congress has authoritly to legislate upon the substantive law of
trade-marks in the Philippine Islands, or to provide for such legislation. P. 256.
2. Philippine Act No. 666 of 1903, passed by the Philippine Commission under authority of Congress, and providing for the registration
of trade-marks and their protection, was not displaced by the
Federal Trade-Mark Act of 1905, and was continued in force by
the Organic Act of 1916. Pp. 256-258.
3. The Federal Trade-Mark Act of 1905 provides with respect to
trade-marks used in commerce between continental United States
and the Philippine Islands a protection similar to that which was
accorded by the Act to the use of trade-marks in interstate commerce. P. 257.
4. This Act does not attempt to create exclusive substantive rights
in marks, or to afford a refuge for piracy through registration
tinder it, but to provide procedure and give protection to remedies
where property rights exist under local law. P. 258.
5. Registration under the Federal Trade-Mark Act of a mark acquired
in the United States does not enable the owner to do local business
under it in the Philippines' in competition with another who has
acquired the right to the mark there by local use and by registration
under the Philippine Act. Id.
6. The name Rogers was registered in the Philippine Islands as a
trade-mark by one who had built up a local business and good will
in selling silverware stamped with it and who was a pioneer in its
use there in that trade. The name had significance as a symbol
of the ware and not as a family name. The ware sold was made
in the United States by a manufacturer which had a federal registration of the name as its trade-mark, and which consented to the
Philippine registration. Held:
(1) That the Philippine registration was valid to prevent local
selling of similar goods, bearing the name Rogers, which were made
*Together

Heacock Co.

with No. 507, Wim. A. Rogers, Ltd., ct al. v. II. E.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argl

en rot
f 1'etitioners.

285U.S.

in the (United States ty ano her iiifuf:itu1er claimling the limi' as
its trade-mark, also regislered nider the Federal Act. P. 259.
(2) 'lhat the local rights of the Philippine registrant were indcpendeiint of lhe rights biter sese of the two manufacturers, and he
was not estopped because of their relations. P. 261.
7. In the interpretation of the local law of the Philippine Islands,
this Court, while free to exercise its independent judgment, will
not overrule a decision of the insular court, except for cogent
r,,:iSons. Id.
.\Iliiiind. Wilh ioditiat ion.

284 U. S. 613, to review the affirmance of
CERTIlOaii.,
a judgiiient enjoiniing infringement of a trade-mark and
for an accounting, and the affirmance of a judgment dismissing a cross-suit.
Mr. Harry D. Nimhs, with whom Messrs. William
Cattron Rigby, M iturn de S. Verdi, and James J. Kennedy were on the brief, for petitioners.
Philippine Act. No. 666 should not be construed to
interfere with and burden trade relations between the
United States and the Philippine Islands.
The proviso indicates an intention to provide for marks
registered under the Act of 1905, protection auxiliary to
that given by that Act. It seems to differentiate goods
imported from the United States under registered trademarks from all other imported goods; doubtless the reason was that the Islands are not foreign to the United
States. Fourteen Diamond RiSngs v. United States, 183
U. S. 176.
The principle that local law may not be construed so as
to burden interstate or foreign commerce particularly
applies to commerce with the Islands, which in a peculiar
way are under the control and care of the Congress.
The court below holds that the Act of 1905 does not
extend to the Islands. By so doing, it nullifies (so far
as trade relations with the Islands go) registration under
this Act.

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

249

Argument for Petitioners.

The Heacock registration is invalid on its face because
it is a registration of a personal surname. Coty, Iic. v.
Parfuns de Grandc Luxe, 298 Fed. 865, 874; Andrew
Jergens Co. v. Bonded Products Corp., 21 F. (2d) 419,
affirming 13 F. (2d) 417; Andrew Jergens Co. v. Woodbury, 273 Fed. 952, 966; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckofi,
Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 135.
Under Act No. 666, a, trade-mark is a mark which distinguishes goods of one man from those of another (, 1)
and registrants under this Act must be " owners of trademarks or trade-names" (§ 2).
Heacock admits that he owns neither the registration
nor the trade-mark registered, but that both, in reality,
belong to the Silver Company, which concern is equitably
estopped from claiming exclusive rights in this surname.
Ubeda v. Zialcita, 226 U. S. 452. When, in 1918, the
Silver Company connived with Heacock to take out this
registration, it knew of the trade-marks of Wm. A. Rogers,
Ltd., and its use of them. We submit that a court of
equity will not allow the Silver Company and Heacock to
profit now by this situation to the injury of Wm. A.
Rogers, Ltd.
Heacock's registration is invalid because contrary to the
provisions of § 13 of Act No. 666, which forbids registration of a mark "identical with a registered or known
trade-mark owned by another ...
or which so nearly
resembles another person's lawful trade-mark or tradename as to be likely to cause confusion." It is invalid
because he never applied it to merchandise.
One of two concerns using composite trade-marks has
not the right to appropriate and claim exclusive use of one
of the words common to the marks. This is particularly
true when that word is in comiion use, either by the
public or by competitors. Planten v. Canton Pharmacy
Co., 33 App. D. C. 268; Laughran v. Quaker City Chocolate Co., 296 Fed. 822; Van Camp Sea Food Co. v. West-

OCTOBER TER,\1 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

285 U.S.

gage Sea Products Co., 28 F. (2d) 95-; Morrell v. Hauser,
20 F. (2d) 713.
It is no answer to assert that the Silver Company's
goods were sold in the Islands before those of Wm.A.
Rogers, Ltd. The Philippine Islands do not constitute
a State. The Islands are a territory belonging to the
United States under a civil government established by the
Congress. In this sovereignty, in interstate commerce in
the continental United States, the marks of the Silver
Company and of Win. A. Rogers, Ltd., which are involved
here, are admittedly not infringements of each other.
For years they have been used side by side. The question
therefore, is here presented whether one of these parties,
simply because it happened to be the first to occupy the
Philippine Market with its Rogers marks, with full
knowledge of the rights of the other, may make use of the
local Act to prevent the exportation to the Islands of
goods bearing these registered trade-marks of the other.
Mr. Edward S. Rogers, with whom Messrs. John P.
Bartlett and Richard Eyre were on the brief, for respondent.
The word "Rogers" was registrable under the Philippine Act. Independently of the statutory right, this
name had acquired a secondary significance in the Philippines as designating the goods of respondent.
Sale of the goods of one manufacturer or trader as
those of another is the essence of the wrong in both trademark and unfair competition cases. Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S.403, 412.
Unfair competition is a question of fact, to be determined with reference to the particular conditions existing in each case. InternationalNews Service v. Associated
Press, 248 U. S. 215, 236; Reddaway v. Banham, (1S96)
A. C. 199, 204; Birmninghan Vinegar Co. v. Powell, (1897)
A. C. 710; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 137.

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

251

Argument for Respondent.

Petitioners are violating the universally accepted principle of law that nobody has any right to represent his
goods as the goods of somebody else. Reddaway v. Banham, (1896) A. C. 199, 204; American Waltham Watch
Co. v. U. S. Watch Co., 173 Mass. 85, 88.
Since the Philippine Islands are territories of the United
States, Congress, under the Constitution, had complete
legislative authority over them (Dorr v. United States,
195 U. S.138) which was lawfully delegated to the Philippine Commission (Dorr v. United States, supra; United
States v. Heinszeft, 206 U. S.370). This general power
included the authority to fix the substantive law of trademarks and unfair competition in the Islands.
The federal trade-mark statutes are based on the commerce clause. Congress has no authority to legislate upon
the substantive law of trade-marks. Trade-Mark Cases,
100 U. S.82; American Steel Foundries v. Robertson, 269
U. S. 372, 381. The Trade-Mark Act of February 20,
1905 (U. S. C., Title 15) is and can be only procedural.
There is no conflict between that act and the Philippine
Act, as they cover different fields.
Respondent was entitled at common law to be protected
against unfair invasion of its long established local good
will by petitioners' use of deceptive marks. Hanover Star
Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, 422.
Petitioners proceed upon the theory that registration
under the Federal Trade-Mark Act is the grant of a
right to use the registered mark; but the exact contrary
is the case. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; United
Drug Co. v. Rectanus Co., 248 U. S.90.
Petitioners invoke registration under the federal statute
to project an alleged trade-mark in advance of any trade
under it, and thus to dislodge a prior occupant of the
market from an earned good will. Under the decisions
of this Court, this can not be done. United Drug Co. v.
Rectanus Co., 248 U. S. 90; U. S. Printing& Litho. Co. v.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285T.S.

Griggs, Cooper & Co., 279 U. S. 156; Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 420.
Petitioner, Wm. A. Rogers, Ltd., has divested itself
of the rights it claims, by assignment to the Oneida
Community, Ltd.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
In No. 506, H. E. Heacock Co., a corporation of the
Philippine Islands and a dealer in 'flatware,' brought suit
in the Court of First Instance of Manila against the
American Trading Company, also a local corporation, to
enjoin infringement of trade-mark and unfair competition.
The trade-mark was the name "Rogers" which it was
alleged, had been used by plaintiff for upwards of twenty
years on flatware, whether nickel, silver-plated or silver,
imported by plaintiff andsold in the Islands. In the year
1918, this trade-mark was registered under the Philippine
Act No. 666 of March 6, 1903, as amended, in the local
Bureau of Commerce and Industry. The complaint
charged that defendant, about the year 1925, began to
import and sell within the Philippine Islands flatware of
precisely the same designs, as that imported and sold by
plaintiff, with the words "Wm. A. Rogers" stamped on
the ware in the same position as that which plaintiff
utilized, and that through this imitation plaintiff was
being defrauded of its legitimate trade. The answer denied the allegations of unfair dealing, and alleged that
-plaintiff had no legal right to appropriate the name
"Rogers" and that, as against defendant, the registration
of that name was invalid. The answer further averred
-that the defendant was acting in the Philippine Islands
as the local representative of Win. A. Rogers, Ltd., (a
Canadian corporation doing business in Canada and New
York) which was engaged in the manufacture, of flatware
and had duly registered in the United States, and was

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

253

Opinion of the Court.

using in its business, several trade-marks embracing the
name " Win. A. Rogers " and " Rogers" in various forms.
No. 507 is a cross suit instituted by Win. A. Rogers, Ltd.
and the American Trading Company against H. E.
Heacock Co.
The two suits were tried together. Judgment was rendered in favor of H. E. Heacock Co., ordering an accounting of profits and directing that Win. A. Rogers, Ltd.
and the American Trading Company "perpetually abstain from importing and selling in the Philippine Islands
silver-plated wares for use in the table and for other
purposes similar to those imported and sold by the plaintiff, bearing the trade-mark 'Rogers'." The cross suit
was dismissed. The Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands rendered judgments of affirriance, and this Court
granted writs of certiorari. Act of February 13, 1925,
c. 229, § 7, 43 Stat. 936, 940.
The facts as found by the insular courts, and as set
forth in the opinion of the Supreme Court, may be summarized as follows: About seventy years ago, three
brothers by the name of Rogers, composing a firm in Connecticut under the name of "Rogers Bgros.," were the'first
to apply the art of electroplating to the manufacture of
silver-plated ware in the United States. Their ware soon
acquired a high reputation. In 1865, Win. Rogers, one
of the brothers, organized a corporation known as the
Win. Rogers Manufacturing Company which used on its
silver-plated ware the trade-marks " 1865 Win. Rogers
Mfg. Co." and "Win. Rogers & Son." Two other corporations also acquired from one or more of the brothers
the right to the use of the name Rogers, and the wares
of these concerns were known by the public as "Rogers."
In 1898, the International Silver Company was organized
and became the owner of the capital stock or properties
of a number of corporations, including the Win. Rogers
Manufacturing Company, the Meriden Britannia Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

pany, and Rogers & Bro. (which were engaged in making
silver-plated ware) together with their good will and
trade-marks embracing the marks " 1847 Rogers Bros."
and the "(Star) Rogers & Bro."
The plaintiff H. E. Heacock Co. was established in
Manila in 1909 as successor of the firm of Heacock &
Frier, which since 1901 had been importing into the Philippine Islands flatware bearing the mark "Rogers."
The
Heacock Company continued this trade and its goods
bearing that mark became widely known in the Islands.
These wares were manufactured in the United States by
the International Silver Company, and, in 1918, the Heacock Company, with the knowledge and consent of the
International Silver Company, registered the word "Rogers" as a trade-mark in the Philippine Bureau of Commerce and Industry. The only competitor of the Heacock Company in this trade is the defendant American
Trading Company, which began to import its wares into
the Philippine Islands in 1925. These are manufactured
in the United States by Win. A. Rogers, Ltd., which has
its trademarks, as alleged by it, duly registered in the
United States. They were not registered in the Philippine Islands until after the trial of these suits. As to
the similarity of the wares and the effect of the use of
the word 'Rogers', the Supreme Court found that
"when Heacock Company first imported such wares into
the Philippine Islands it was then a virgin country, and
it must be admitted that any business standing or reputation which such wares had up to 1925 were those given
by the advertising and business methods and dealings of that company. The evidence is conclusive that
the wares for which the American Trading Company has
been taking and filling orders are very similar in appearance, design, and material to the wares which have been
advertised and sold in this country by Heacock Company
since 1905. It is true that a dealer in such wares could

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

255

Opinion of the Court.

and would see the distinction between them, but even
so, in the ordinary course of business, the average public
to whom they are sold could not and would not distinguish one from the other." And further, the Supreme
Court said, "stripped of all non-essentials, it must be
conceded that in this line of wares it is the word 'Rogers'
which gives the business its intrinsic value." .
I The Supreme Court in substance confirmed the findings of the
Court of First Instance which stated " that the silver-plated goods
for use in the table and for other purposes manufactured by the
International Silver Corporation and imported into the Islands by
H. E. Heacock Co. were known generally and in the Islands by
their trade-mark ' ROGERS' and this trade-mark used in connection
with said silver-plated goods have been known by the public as
goods sold by H. E. Heacock Co.; that the said silver-plated goods
with the trade-mark 'ROGERS' were notoriously known in the
Philippine Islands due to the extensive propaganda and advertisement made by H. E. Heacock Co. which cost from forty thousand to
fifty thousand pesos; that the silver-plated goods for use in the table
and for other purposes imported into these Islands by H. E. -Icacock Co. and by Wim. A. Rogers, Ltd., and the American Trading Co.,
have the word 'ROGERS' with the addition' of other words, figures
or symbols indicating the different grades or qualities of 'the goods;
that in the local market the word 'ROGERS' is the one generally
known and sought for by the public which desires to buy silver-plated
goods for the table and for other purposes, disregarding and overlooking completely the other words, figures and symbols appearing on the
goods; that some of the dealers in silver-plated goods imported by
Wm.Rogers, Ltd., and the American Trading Co. only make mention
and call attention to the word 'ROGERS' appearing thereon, and in
almost all cases the public entertained the conviction and the belief, at least, that such silver-plated goods were the same as those
which bore the trade-mark 'ROGERS' sold by H. E. Heacock Co.;
that the American Trading Co., through it and as representative of
Wm.A. Rogers, Ltd., has succeeded in making a name in the market
for the silver-plated goods which it imports and sells in the Philippines, thanks to the word 'ROGERS' engraved thereon, and, finally,
that H. E. Heacock Co. was informed of the importation of these
silver-plated goods bearing the word 'ROGERS' by the American
Trading Co. about the end of 1927 only."

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

No ground appears for disturbing these findings of fact.
The petitioners contend that, irrespective of the validity
of respondent's local registration, the petitioner Win. A.
Rogers, Ltd. 'was entitled to send its goods marked with
its federally registered trade-marks to the Islands and sell
them there'; that the respondent's registration in the
Islands was invalid upon- various grounds; and that both
that registration, and the trade-mark registered, in reality
belong to the International Silver Company, which is
equitably estopped from claiming exclusive rights in the
word 'Rogers'. Respondent rests upon the Philippine
statute and its registration thereunder, and upon general
principles of law, insisting that the registration by Win. A.
Rogers, Ltd., of its trade-marks in the United States does
not constitute a defense against infringement and unfair
competition in the local trade in the Islands.
First. While the Congress, by virtue of the commerce
clause, has no power to legislate upon the substantive law
of trade-marks, it does have complete authority so to
legislate, or to provide for such legislation, in the government of the Philippine Islands.3 Under the authority
validly conferred by the Congress,4 the Philippine Commission passed the Philippine Act No. 666, of 1903, which
made comprehensive provision in relation to trade-marks,
trade names and unfair competition in the Philippine
Islands. That Act, with amendments, has been continued.
It provides for the registration of trade-marks and their
protection. The Congress has had authority to amend or
repeal this legislation, relating to local trade within the
Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82; United Drug Co. v. Rectanus
Co., 248 U. S. 90, 98; American Steel Foundries v. Robertson, 269
U. S. 372, 38i.
3 De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 196, 197.
'Act of March 2, 1901, c. 803, 31 Stat. 910; Dorr v. United
States,. 195 U. S, 138, 153; Uvited States v. Heinszen & Co., 206
U. 5. 370, 385.

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

257

Opinion of the Court.

Islands, but it has not done so. The Federal Trade-Mark
Act of 1905," cannot be regarded as intended to displace
the Philippine statute so far as the latter applied to local
commerce. The Act contains no provision to that effect.
It was, however, manifestly intended to apply to valid
trade-marks used in commerce between continental United
States and the Philippine Islands. This is apparent from
.§ 29" which provides'that the word 'States', as used in
the Act 'embraces the District of Columbia, the Territories of the United States, and such other territory as
shall be under the jurisdiction and control of the United
States.' 7 The Tariff Act of 1909,8 relating to the Philippine Islands, provided for jurisdiction in the insular courts
in matters arising under the Federal Trade-Mark Act of
1905. And the Philippine statute as to trade-marks, as
amended in 1915 (Act No. 2460) in prohibiting the importation of merchandise with names or marks simulating
those of domestic manufacturers or traders registered
under the local Act, contained a proviso that "this section" (§ 14) "shall not be construed to affect rights that
any person may have acquired by virtue of having registered a trade-mark under the laws of the United States." 9
Accordingly, we must assume that it was the intention
of the Congress in the Federal Trade-Mark Act of 1905
to provide, with respect to trade-marks used in commerce
between continental United States and the Philippine
Islands, a protection similar to that which was accorded
Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, 33 Stat. 724, U. S. C., Tit.. 15,

§§ 81 et seq.

'33 Stat. 731, U. S. C. Tit. 15,§ 108.

'See U. S. Treasury Department, Rules and Regulations, 1908,
vol. 3, art. 325, p. 159; 27 Op. Atty. Gen. 623, 624.
'Act of August 5, 1909, c. 8, § 20, 36 Stat. 130, 177.
See, also, Customs Administrative Order No. 194, January 13,
1926: "Laws, Rules and Regulations governing the registration of
Trade-Marks and Trade Names in the Philippine Islands" published
by the Philippine Government in 1927.
137818*--2-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

by the Act to the use of trade-marks in interstate commerce. As to the latter, the Federal statute did not attempt to create exclusive substantive rights in marks,
or to afford a refuge for piracy through registration under
the Act, but to provide appropriate procedure and to
give the described protection and remedies where property rights existed, The acquisition of such property
rights in trade-marks rested upon the laws of the several
States. United Drug Co. v. Rectanus Co., 248 U. S. 90,
98; American Steel Foundries v. Robertson, 269 U. S. 372,
381; United States Printing & Lithograph Co., v. Griggs,
Cooper & Co., 279 U. S. 156, 158. And in view of the
object and terms of the statute, and of the assimilation
in this respect of commerce with the Philippines to interstate commerce, the same rule of construction must
be deemed applicable in both cases. There is no ground
for the conclusion that the Congress, in thus according
the protection of the Federal statute to valid registered
trade-marks used in commerce with the Philippine Islands, intended to override the Philippine statute with
respect to the acquisition and protection of rights in
marks and names in local trade within the Islands. The
Philippine Trade-Mark Act in its proper application to
local trade is undoubtedly one of the laws which was continued in force by the Organic Act for the Philippine
Islands, enacted in 1916,10 which provided in § 6" that the
laws now in force in the Philippines shall continue in
force and effect, except as altered, amended, or modified
herein, until altered, amended, or repealed by the legislative authority herein provided or by Act of Congress of
the United States."
The controversy with respect to the trade in the wares
in question is narrowed by the concession of the respondent, in its argument here, that its bill "did not pray for
10 Act of August 29, 1916, c. 416, 39 Stat. 545, 547,

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

259

Opinion of the Court.

an injunction against importation, but against sellingmeaning, of course, local selling within the Philippines."
Respondent states that "the infringing and unfair acts
of petitioners all had to do with local selling after the
imported goods had 'mingled with and become a part of
the general property of the' Islands." Referring to the
provision of the judgment enjoining petitioners from
'importing and selling in the Philippine Islands,' respondent concedes that "if the words 'selling in the
Philippines' should be construed as comprehensive
enough to include selling by Win. A. Rogers, Ltd. directly
to a purchaser in the Philippines," the judgment might
be " open to criticism," and respondent submits that these
words mean "local sales." Insisting that the judgment
as thus construed " in no way interferes with the importation of goods of petitioners or the sale of their goods
in original packages," respondent states that, if the judgment be found ambiguous in this respect, "it would be
enough to reform it to confine its operation to 'selling
in local trade in the Philippine Islands.'"
Second. With respect to the local trade within the
Islands, respondent had acquired rights under the Philippine law. Respondent had long been engaged in selling
its wares and had a valuable good will. These wares had
been known by the name of 'Rogers' for many years.
This name had identified the wares and had made the
respondent's trade distinctive. In employing this designation there had been no simulation of the names of
others in the Islands and there had been no occasion for
confusion. For this trade, as the insular Court has said,
the Islands were 'virgin ' territory. The facts, as found,
thus demonstrate that in this long continued local trade
the word 'Rogers' did not have the significance of a
family name but had acquired a secondary meaning in
particular relation to the wares in which the respondent

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

dealt." The insular Supreme Court held that in these
circumstances the word 'Rogers' was entitled to registration under the Philippine Trade-Mark Act No. 666. We
perceive no ground on which it can be said that legislation
permitting such a registration and affording the remedies
for which the Act provides was not within the competency
of the local legislative authority. Compare, with respect
to the provision of § 5 of the Federal Trade Mark Act of
1905, Thaddeus Davids Co. v. Davids Mfg. Co., 233 U. S.
461, 468, 470; G. & C. Merriam Co. v. Syndicate Publishing Co., 237 U. S.618, 622. The fact that the goods thus
designated were imported goods does not affect the question of the respondent's right to protection in the local
trade it had built up. The fundamental purpose of the
Philippine legislation was to protect the continued enjoyment of reputation acquired in such trade and the good
will flowing from it. See Hanover Milling Co. v. Metcalf,
240 U. S.403, 412, 413. In this aspect it is unnecessary to
consider the respective rights of the International Silver
Company and Wm.A. Rogers, Ltd. in relation to the use
of their marks in the States of the Union. These rights
have been the subject of numerous judicial decisions.-12
Herring-Hall-MarvinSafe Co. v. Hall's Safe Co., 208 U. S;
554, 559; L. E. Waterman Co. v.Modem Pen Co., 235 U. S.88, 94;
American Waltham Watch Co. v. United States Watch Co. 173 Mass.
85, 87; 53 N. E. 141; Westphal v. Westphal's Corp., 216 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 53; 215 N. Y. S. 4; Id., 243 N. Y. 639; 154 N. E.638; Garrett v.Garrett & Co., 78 Fed. 472, 478; Henderson v.Peter Henderson
& Co., 9 F. (2d) 787, 789; Vick Medicine Co. v. Vick Chemical Co.,
11 F. (2d) 33, 35; Montgomery v.Thompson (1891), A. C. 217; 64
L.T.R.748; Matter of Burford & Co., 36 R.P.C.139.
12 William Rogers Mfg. Co. v.Rogers & Spurr Mfg. Co., 11 Fed.
495; William Rogers Mfg. Co. v.R. W. Rogers Co., 66 Fed. 56;
R. W. Rogers Co. v.Win. Rogers Mfg. Co., 70 Fed. 1017; Rogers v.
Win. Rogers Mfg. Co., 70 Fed. 1019; Win. Rogers Mfg. Co. v. Rogers,
84 Fed. 639; Win. Rogers Mfg. Co. v. Rogers, 95 Fed. 1007; Inter1 See

AMER. TRADING CO. v. HEACOCK CO.
247

261

Opinion of the Court.

It is sufficient to say that when petitioners entered the
trade within the Philippine Islands in 1925, they found a
field already occupied and were bound to respect the rights
there established: Nor do we find any ground for holding
that the respondent is estopped from seeking relief by reason of its relation to the International Silver Company.
Respondent manifestly had acquired an interest in the
local trade which was entitled to protection, and it has
sought and obtained that protection in accordance with
the law governing.that trade.
As the questions are those of the interpretation of the
local law, and its application to particular facts, this Court,
while free to exercise its independent judgment, is not disposed except for cogent reasons to overrule the decision
of the insular court. Alzua v. Johnson, 231 U. S.106, 110;
Gauzon v. CompaiiiaGeneral, 245 U. S. 86, 89; Ibanez v.
Hong Kong Banking Corp., 246 U. S. 627, 629; Philippine
Sugar Co. v. Philippine Islands, 247 U. S.385, 390; Yu
Cong Eng v. Trinidad, 271 U. S. 500, 523. We find no
such reasons here.
The judgment of the Court of First Instance of Manila
is modified, in the provision for injunction, by striking
out the words "importing and selling in the Philippine
Islands" and substituting therefor the words " selling
in local trade in the Philippine Islands," and, in the
provision for accounting, by striking out the words "importation and sale in the Philippines" and substituting
therefor the words "sale in local trade in the Philippine
national Silver Co. v. Simeon L. & George H. Rogers Co., 110 Fed.
955; Win. A. Rogers, Ltd. v. InternationalSilver Co., 30 App. D. C.
97; Wm.A. Rogers, Ltd. v. International ,Silver do. (1), 34 App.
D. C. 410; William A. Rogers, Ltd. v. International Silver Co. (2),
34 App. D. C. 413; Wm.A. Rogers, Ltd. v. InternationalSilver Co.
(3), 34 App. D. C. 484; Win. A. Rogers, Ltd v. Rogers Silverware
Redemption Bureau, Inc., 247 Fed. 178; William Rogers Mfg. Co. v.
Rogers Mfg. Co., 16 Phila. Rep. 178.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

285U.S.

Islands "; and, with this modification, the judgments of
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands are affirmed.
Affirmed.
took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

NEW STATE ICE CO. v. LIEBMANN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 463.

Argued February 19, 1932.-Decided March 21, 1932.

1. The business of manufacturing ice and selling it is essentially a
private business and not so affected with a public interest that a
legislature may constitutionally limit the number of .those who may
engage in it, in order to control competition. Pp. 273 et seq.
2. An Oklahoma statute, declaring that the manufacture, sale and
distribution of ice is a public business, forbids anyone to engage in
it without first having procured a license from a state commission;
no license is to issue without proof of necessity for the manufacture,
sale or distribution of ice in the community or place to which the
application relates, and if the facilities already existing and licensed
at such place are sufficient to meet the public needs therein, the
commission may deny the application. Held repugnant to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 278.
3. A state law infringing the liberty guaranteed to individuals by the
Constitution can not be upheld upon the ground that the State is
conducting a legislative experiment. P. 279.
52 F. (2d) 349, affirmed.

the dismissal by the
District Court, 42 F. (2d) 913, of a bill by the appellant,
a licensed ice company, to enjoin the defendant from engaging in the ice business, at a place in Oklahoma, without
having first procured a license.
APPEAL from a decree sustaining

Messrs. John B. Dudley and Guy L. Andrews, with
whom Mr. J. H. Everest was on the brief, for appellant.
If the act is valid, the license is a property right in the
nature of a franchise granted in consideration of the per-

