ITAGNER v. UNITED STATES.
424

.427..

Syllabus.

ters here in question plainly relate to. sexual matters.
We have no occasion to consider whether filthy letters of
a different character fall within the prohibition of the
Act.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICEMCREYNOLDS thinks the judgment should
be affirmed.
MR'. JUSTICE CARDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

HAGNER

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 590.

Argued March 14, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

1. Defendants were convicted in the District of Columbia upon an
indictment under § 215 of the Criminal Code, charging that, having devised there a scheme to defraud a named corporation in
manner and form set forth, they did, for the purpose of executing the scheme, place in a designated post office in Pennsylvania,
to be sent and delivered by the post office establishment to the addressee thereof, certain accounts enclosed in an envelope addressed
to the company at a stated address in the District of Columbia.
The indictment did not allege specifically that they caused the
letter to be delivered by mail according to the,directiofi thereon.
Held that against objection first made by motion in arrest, and
upon a record not containing the evidence or instructions, the
indictment should be sustained as charging an offense committed
within that District, because of the presumption that the letter was
delivered there. Pp. 429-431.
2. Proof that a letter properly directed was placed in a post office,
creates a presumption that it reached its destination in usual time
and was actually received by the person to whom it was addressed.
And the fact that receipt of the letter subjects the person sending
it to a penalty does not alter the rule. P. 430.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

285 U.S.

3. The rigor of old common law rules of criminal pleading has yielded,
in modern practice, to the general principle that formal defects,
not prejudicial, will be disregarded. P. 431.
4. Rev. Stats., § 1025 does not dispense with the rule which requireg
that the essential elements of an offense must be alleged; but it
authorizes the courts to disregard merely loose or inartificial forms
of averment. Upon a proceeding after verdict at least, no prejudice being shown, it is enough that necessary facts appear in any
form, or by fair construction can be found within the terms of the
indictment. P. 433. '
60 App. D. C. 335; 54 F. (2d) 446, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 614, to review the affirmance of a
conviction for use of the post office in pursuance of a
scheme to defraud.

Mr. Win. E. Leahy, with whom Messrs. Lucien H.
Vandoren and Win. J. Hughes, Jr., were on the brief, for
petitioners.
The indictment charges no offense in the District of
Columbia, but an offense in Pennsylvania. Salinger v.
Loisel, 265 U. S. 264; United States v. Sauer, 88 Fed. 249;
Stewart v. United States, 119 Fed. 89; United States v.
Conrad,59 Fed. 458.
Section 44, Title 18, of the Code of the District of Columbia limits the criminal jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court of the District to crimes committed within the
District.
It seems extremely doubtful that the provisions of
Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution and the Sixth Amendment, relative to trial by jury of the State and district
wherein the offense was committed, can be waived. Petitioners did not waive them in the present case.
The decision below is contrary to Patton v. United
States, 281 U. S.276.
Solicitor General Thachcr, with whom Messrs. Whitney
North Seymour, Erwin N. Griswold, and JVn. H.
Riley, Jr., were on the brief, for the United States.

HAGNER v. UNITED STATES.427

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHEiRLAND delivered the opinion of 'the
Court.
Petitioners were indicted in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia under .§215 of the Criminal Code,
U. S. C., Title 18, § 338, which provides:
"Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud, . . . shall, for the purpose
of executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so to
do, place or cause to be placed, any letter, . . . in any
post-office, . , . to be sent or delivered by the post-office
establishment of the United States, • . . or shall knowingly cause to be delivered by mail according to the
directionthereon, . . . any such letter, • . . shall be fined
not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than five
years, or both."
The indictment charges that petitioners devised and
intended to devise a scheme and artifice to defraud the
Merchants' Transfer and Storage Company out of its
money and property in manner and form set forth; and
*that "for the purpose of executing said scheme and artifice, on, to wit, April 19, 1927, did place and cause to be
placed in the Post Office at the City of Scranton, in the
State of Pennsylvania, to be sent and delivered by the
Post Office establishment of the United States of America,
to the addressee thereof, three certain accounts enclosed in
a certain envelope addressed to Merchants' Transfer
and Storage Company, 920 E Street, N. W., Washington, D. C."
Petitioners were arraigned, entered pleas of not guilty,
and went to trial without challenging the sufficiency of
the indictment or the jurisdiction of the court to hear and
determine the case. They were found guilty by a jury,
and thereupon moved in arrest of judgment upon the
ground that the indictment failed to charge any offense
within the jurisdiction of the court. The motion was
overruled, and petitioners sentenced to pay a fine and

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

undergo a term of imprisonment. Upon appeal the
judgment was affirmed by the court below. 60 App. D. C.
335; 54 F. (2d) 446.
The contention is that the indictment charges no offense committed in the District of Columbia, but only an
offense committed in Pennsylvania; and, assuming this
to be true, that the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia was without jurisdiction. Undoubtedly, the indictment is adequate to charge an offense committed in
Pennsylvania; but the question first to be considered is
whether upon this record and upon a motion in arrest of
judgment, the indictment may be sustained as also sufficient to charge an offense committed within the District
of Columbia. The record brought here does not contain
the evidence or any of the trial proceedings. We have
before us only the indictment, the fact that petitioners
were arraigned, entered pleas, were convicted and sentenced, the motion in arrest of judgment and the order of
the court overruling it, together with the formal docket
entries relating thereto.
The defect said to exist is that the indictment fails to
allege specifically that petitioners did "cause [the letter]
to be delivered by mail according to the direction thereon."
Obviously, in this particular, the indictment does not precisely follow the terms of the statute, but it -does allege
that the letter was deposited in a post office so addressed
as to constitute a direction for its delivery to the addressee
at a particular place in the District of Columbia. The
rule is well settled that proof that a letter properly directed was placed in a post office, creates a presumption
that it reached its destination in usual time and was
actually received by the person to whom it was addressed.
Rosenthal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 185, 193. And the fact
that receipt of the letter subjects the person sending it
to a penalty does not alter the rule. Id., p. 194. If the
indictment had alleged actual delivery of the letter in

HAGNER v. UNITED STATES.
427

Opinion of the Court.

question, the case for the government in this particular
would have been made out by proof that the letter thus
directed had been placed in the post office for transmission.
The burden then would have been cast upon petitioners
to show the contrary.
While, therefore, the indictment does not in set terms
allege delivery of the letter, a, presumption to that effect
results from the facts which are alleged. In Ball v. United
States, 140 U. S. 118, 133, 136, it was held that an indictment for murder which fails to allege the time of the
death is fatally defective, since. to constitute murder it is
necessary that death shall occur within a year and a day
from the time of the fatal stroke.. But it appearing that
the indictment then under consideration had been returned
less than a year from the day of the assault, the court did
not consider the objection fatal to the indictment in this
particular, notwithstanding the absence of an allegation
of the time of death.
The rigor of old common law rules of criminal pleading
has yielded, in modern practice, to the general principle
that formal defects, not prejudicial, will be disregarded.
The true test of the sufficiency of an indictment is not
whether it could have been made more definite and certain, but whether it contains the elements of the offense
intended to be charged, "and sufficiently apprises the
defendant of what he must be prepared to meet, and,
in case any other proceedings are taken against him for
a similar offence, whether the record shows with accuracy
to what extent he may plead a former acquittal or conviction." Cochran and Sayre v. United States, 157 U. S.
286, 290; Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S.29, 34.
Section 1025 Revised Statutes (U. S. C. Title 18, § 556)
provides:
"No indictment found and presented by a grand jury
in any district or other court of the United States shall
be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

other proceeding thereon be affected by reason of any
defect or imperfection in matter of form only, which
shall not tend to the prejudice of the defendant."
This section was enacted to the end that, while the
accused must be afforded full protection, the guilty shall
not escape through mere imperfections of pleading. We
refer to a few of the many cases where the provision has
been applied.
In Grandi v. United States, 262 Fed. 123, 124, the indictment charged the defendant with the receipt and possession of goods knowing they had been stolen from part
of a shipment in interstate commerce, but failed to charge
that the goods were in fact so stolen. A motion to quash
had been denied, on the ground that the defendant could
not have been misled to his prejudice. The court sa-.d"The charge that defendant knew the goods to have been
stolen naturally implies that the goods had been in fact
stolen. The verdict should not be reversed on account of
a defect so obviously technical and unsubstantial." An
indictment under the Espionage Act, which denounces
certain acts when the United States is at war, has been
upheld notwithstanding a failure to allege that when the
acts were committed the United States was at war, on the
ground that the courts would take judicial notice of that
fact. Stephens v. United States, 261 Fed. 590; Bouldin v.
United States, 261 Fed. 674. An indictment for seditious
conspiracy under Section 6 of the Criminal Code must
charge that the conspiracy involved an intent to use force;
but where the overt act was alleged, with the intent of
engaging in armed hostility against the United States by
attacking with force and arms, the original intent was
necessarily implied and the indictment was sustained notwithstanding the lack of the specific allegatioh, since
otherwise effect, fatal to the indictment, would be given to
a mere imperfection in matter of form, not tending to the
prejudice of the defendant. Phipps v. United States, 251

HAGNER v. UNITED STATES.
427

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. 879, 880. Omission from an indictment, drawn under the section of the Criminal Code now under consideration, of a specific allegation that the letter was "to be
sent or delivered by the post office establishment" was
not considered prejudicial where the indictment sufficiently alleged that the letter was placed in the post office
properly addressed. Olsen v. United States, 287 Fed. 85,
90. See also Cohen v. United States, 294 Fed. 488, 490;
Gay v. United States, 12 F. (2d) 433, 434; Musey v.
United States, 37 F. (2d) 673, 674.
It, of course, is not the intent of § 1025 to dispense
with the rule which requires that the essential elements
of an offense must be alleged; but it authorizes the courts
to disregard merely loose or inartificial forms of averment. Upon a proczeding after verdict at least, no
prejudice being shown, it is enough that the necessary
facts appear in any form, or by fair construction can
be found within the terms of the indictment.
In the absence of the evidence and the charge of the
court, we are free to assume that every essential element
of the offense was sufficiently proved and that the question as to the delivery of the letter was submitted under
appropriate instructions to the jury. The contrary of
neither of these propositions is asserted. The indictment
in the particular complained of is loosely and inartificially drawn and is not to be commended, but upon the
record before us, and wfthout deciding that the indictment would not have been open to some form of challenge at an earlier stage of the case, we are of opinion
that after verdict it is not vulnerable to the attack here
made upon it. Dunbar v. United States, 156 U. S. 185,
191 et seq. Compare Pierce v. Creecy, 210 U. S. 387,
401-2; Ex parte Pierce, 155 Fed. 663, 665; United States
v. Barber, 157 Fed. 889, 891.
In view of this conclusion, it becomes unnecessary to
consider the further question whether the trial court had
1371'-32--28

434

OCTOBER TERM,- 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

jurisdiction to try the indictment, if construed as charging the commission of an offense only in Pennsylvania.
Judgment affirmed.
COOMBES v. GETZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 528.

Argued March 21, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

1. Where the contract clause of the Federal Constitution is involved,
this Court wilt determine for itself whether there be a contract
the obligation of which is within the protection of that clause, and
whether that obligation has been impaired, and, likewise, will determine for itself the meaning and application of state constitutional or statutory provisions said to create the contract or by
which it is asserted an impairment has been cffect'd. P. 441.
2. One section of the California constitution provided that directors
of corporations should be liable to the creditors for all moneys
embezzled or misappropriated by corporate officers. Another section reserved power to alter or repeal all existing or future laws
concerning corporations. While creditors who contracted with a
corporation, with these provisions in force, were suing to enforce
their rights against a director for money misappropriated by the
corporatioih's officers, the section making the director liable was
repealed. Held:
(1), The right to enforce the liability was part of the creditors'
contracts, perfected and fully vested before the repeal, and was
protected by the contract clause of the Constitution and by the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 442, 448.
(2) When the contracts were made, the Supreme Court of
California had not decided that the repeal of a law creating such
a contractual liability extinguishes the cause of action. P. 445.
(3) The so-called reserved power of a State over corporations
and their shareholders can not be used to destroy the vested rights
of third persons or to impair the obligations of their contracts.
P. 441.
213 Cal. 164; 1 P. (2d) 992; 4 P. (2d) 157, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 613, to review a decision dismissing an appeal in a suit to enforce a director's liability to
creditors of a corporation.

