OCTOBER TERW,

1931.

Syllabus.

285 U. S.

obvious purpose and definite scheme of the 1924 Act to
return uniformly to taxpayers 25% of the tax on income
of a single year. Undoubtedly Congress might have included the tax on this income of petitioners in its scheme
for refunding taxes. Its failure to do so is doubtless a
consequence of the fact already noted that it did make
provision for reduction of the like tax on the income for
the corresponding months of 1922.
Assuming that petitioners can invoke the protection
of the Fifth Amendment to secure an equable share of a
credit or refund of a tax after its assessment, we can
discern in this statute no want of due process of law.
The petitioners are within a defined class which Congress
clearly had power to select for purposes of a tax refund.
See La Belle Iron Works v. United States, 256 U. S. 377,
392; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261, 282; Barclay & Co. v. Edwards, 267 U. S. 442, 450. They cannot
complain of the possibly unequal operation of the statute
on others less favorably situated. Heald v. District of
Columbia, 259 U. S. 114, 123.
Affirmed.
BOSTON & MAINE RAILROAD v. ARMBURG.
CERTIORARI TO THE MUNICIPAL COURT OF BOSTON, COUNTY
OF SUFFOLK,

No. 477.

MASSACHUSETTS.

Argued February 24, 25, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. Under the Massachusetts Workmen's Compensation Act, an employer not electing to comply with the Act by effecting the prescribed insurance for the benefit of his employees, is deprived, in
an action brought by an employee to recover for personal injuries
sustained in the course of his employment, of the defenses of
negligence of a fellow servant and assumption of risk. The state
court construed the Act to be applicable to a carrier engaged in
both intrastate and interstate commerce, but not to such of its employees as at the time of injury were engaged in interstate corn-

BOSTON & MAINE R . CO. v. ARMBURG.
234

235

Counsel for Parties.

merce. Hcld, as thus construed tlhe A,\ does not on its face iml)ose
:inv burden on interstate commerce. Pp. 237-238.
2. The Federal Employers' Liability Act does not exclude the exertion of state power over employees of interstate carriers while
engaged in services not invoivinlg interstate commerce. P. 23S.
3. The objection that the Massachusetts Act invades the field already
occupied by federal legislation, in that it applies to all employees
engaged in intrastate commerce, although at the same time and in
the same service some may be engaged in interstate commerce, is
not open to a carrier (who did not elect to comply with the Act)
in an action for personal injuries brought by an employee who at
the time of the accident was not engaged in interstate commerce
Pp. 238-239.
4. As construed by the state court, the Act does not extend to employees engaged at the time of injury in interstate commerce, even
though at the same time their service is also in intrastate commerce. P. 239.
5. The insurance provisions of the Act, in their application to an interstate carrier, and as construed by the state court, require the
premiums to be based on so much of the carrier's payroll as may
be allocated to the hours of employment in intrastate commerce.
Held:
(1) It is not self-evident that the Act is unworkable; and there
was nothing in the record enabling the Court to say that such allocation was either impossible or so difficult as necessarily to impose
a burden on interstate commerce. Pp. 239-240.
(2) The burden was on the carrier, who assailed the statute, to
establish its unconstitutionality. P. 240.
276 Mass. 418; 177 N. E. 665, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 609, to review

a judgment of the

Municipal Court of Boston, entered on rescript from the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in an action
against a railroad company by an employee to recover
damages for personal injuries sustained in the course of
his employment.
Mr. Philip N. Jones, with whom Mr. FrancisP. Garland
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Clarence W. Rowley for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

Messrs. John M. Gibbons, Eugene J. Phillips, and
Henry Lawlor, by leave of Court, filed a brief as amici
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of. the Court.

This case is here on certiorari to review a judgment of
the Muncipal Court of Boston, entered on rescript of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, holding that
the Massachusetts Workmen's Compensation Act does
not impose an unconstitutional burden on interstate comnerce. 276 Mass. 418; 177 N. E. 665.
The suit was brought by respondent to recover for
personal injuries while in the employ of petitioner, an
interstate rail carrier, engaged in both intrastate and
interstate commerce. At the time of his injury, he was
engaged exclusively in intrastate commerce. The Railroad Company interposed as defenses that the injury
was due solely to the negligence of a fellow servant and
that respondent had assumed the risks of such negligence.
Upon the trial by the court without a jury, respondent
invoked the provisions of the Massachusetts Workmen's
Compensation Act, ยง 66, c. 152, Mass. General Laws, providing that an employer not electing to comply with that
Act by effecting the prescribed insurance for the benefit
of his employees, as petitioner had failed to do, may not
interpose these defenses in an action brought by an employee to recover for injuries sustained in the course of
his employment. Rulings requested by the petitioner
that the Act did not apply to petitioner, and if it did,
that the provisions invoked, constituted an unconstitutional burden on commerce, wefe denied. The correctness of these rulings was reviewed and upheld by the
Supreme Judicial Court, after which, following the Massachusetts practice, judgment was entered accordingly
by the Municipal Court.

BOSTON & M kINV R. O.,v. AI0IBURG.
234

237

Opinion of the Court.

It is the contention of the petitioner that the insurance
provisions of the Massachusetts Act, if applied to an interstate carrier, impose an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce, and as ยง 66, denying to employers
certain common law (lefenses. in effect penalizes failure
to comply with the ifmraetce provisions, and is inseparable from them, the constit Ltionality of the section is
conditioned upon that of the insurance requirements and
it must be deemed unconstitutional as -applied to petitioner. See Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1;
Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Commission, 271 U. S.
583.
The Act, in terms, ยง 1 (4), is made broadly applicable
to employees " except masters of aid seamen on vessels
engaged in interstate or foreign comniere," and the state
court held in this case that it is applicable to the employees of interstate carriers engaged in intrastate commerce.
But, construing the Act, it ruled that as by implication
all statutes of the state are intended to operate only upon
a subject within the jurisdiction of the legislature enacting them, this statute is not to be deemed to be applicable
to employees whose rights of recovery for injuries in the
course of their employment in interstate commerce are
governed by the Federal Employers' Liai)ility Act. The
court said (pp. 423, 424):
"... The act does not require . . . that an employer
must insure branches or departmemts or kinds of business which for any reason are not within the jurisdiction of the General Court and thus necessarily
outside the scope of the act. Al employer, conducting
some business within the jurisdiction of the General
Court and other business outside that jurisdiction, may
insure under the act with respect to his employees in the
part of his business within that j'risdiction and secure

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

with respect to them all the benefits of the act unaffected
by the circumstance that he continues to conduct the part
of his business outside that jurisdiction without such insurance; and he may continue to conduct this latter part
of his business under the principles of legal obligation
governing it, free from any effect flowing from insurance
under the act as to the other part of his business conducted within the jurisdiction of the General Court."
Thus construed the Act does not on its face impose any
burden on interstate commerce.
The enactment of workmen's compensation acts is
within the legislative power of the state, Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 238, 239; Madera
Sugar Pine Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 262
U. S. 499, 501, 502, which includes the power to do away
with the fellow servant and assumption of risk rules.
New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 200;
Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 213; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Minnesota Iron Co. v.
Kline, 199 U. S. 593. The interstate commerce clause
did not withdraw from the states the power to legislate
with respect to their local concerns, even though such
legislation may indirectly and incidentally affect interstate commerce and persons engaged in it. Sherlock v.
Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 103; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 26; Interstate Busses Corp. v. Holyoke St. Ry. Co., 273 U. S. 45, 52; Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, 137, 138.
Although by the Federal Employers' Liability Act the
regulatory power of the national government over interstate commerce has been extended to the employees of
interstate rail carriers, it has not excluded the exertion
of state power over their employees, while engaged in a
service not involving interstate commerce. See Shanks
v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. Co., 239 U. S.
556, 558. The liability of the carrier to its employees

BOSTON & MAINE R. CO. v. ARIMBUlG.
234

239

Opinion of the Court.

when so engaged is controlled by state law, see Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473; Wabash R. Co.
v. Hayes, 234 U. S. 86, 89, 90; and thus remains within
the scope of state legislative power to regulate the relations of master and servant. Chicago & Eastern Illinois
R. Co. v. Industrial Commission, 284 U. S. 96.
But the petitioner insists that the Massachusetts
statute does invade the field already occupied by the federal legislation. It is said that the statute, as construed
by the state court, applies to all employees in intrastate
commerce, while the federal act does extend to and include some employees engaged in intrastate commerce if,
at the same moment and in the same service, they are
also engaged in interstate commerce. See Pedersen v.
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. Co., 229 U. S. 146;
Erie R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 170; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 251 U. S.259.
But there are two answers to this suggestion. First, as
was conceded at the trial, the respondent was not engaged
in interstate commerce at the time of the accident, and
the petitioner cannot object, on the ground advanced, to
the application of the Act to his employment. Second,
we do not read the opinion of the state court as placing
any such construction on the Act. By the language
which we have quoted and elsewhere in the opinion, the
court states with emphasis that the Act is not to be construed as reaching into any part of the field occupied by
federal legislation. Thus construed, it does not purport
to extend to employees who, because they are engaged in
interstate commerce, are within the federal act, even
though at the same, time their service is also in intrastate
commerce.
Petitioner also urges that as the insurance provisions
-of the Act, as interpreted by the state court, require the
premiums to be based on so much of its payroll as may
be allocated to the hours of employment in intrastate

OCTO
,I,7:R

TER\M. 1931.
Syl1:ibus.

2S5 U. S.

commerce, a burden is imposed on interstate commerce
by the difficulty, if not impossibility, of making the allocation.

So far as this argument is based on an interpre-

tati(,n of the statute which the state court has rejected,
it may be disregarded. The allocation required is only
to employment exclusively in intrastate service not embraced in the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The
state court thought that possible difficulties in making it
could be dealt with administratively by rules framed by
the State Insurance Commissioner, acting under authority
of the Act. In any case, it is not self-evident that the Act
is unworkable, and there is nothing on the record which
would enable us to say that such allocation is either impossible or so difficult as necessarily to impose any burden
on interstate commerce. See Interstate Busses Corporation v. Holyoke St. Ry. Co., supra, p. 52.
There are no findings andi the petitioner asked no ruling
with' respect to the point. There is no evidence from
which it could be inferred that the allocation could not
be made or that insurance could not -be effected at a cost
bearing a fair relation to the intrastate service to which
the Act applies. The burden was onl petitioner, who assailed the statute, to establish its unconstitutionality.
O'Gorman & Youwn, Inc. v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282
U. S. 251; Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v.
Glidden Co., 2S4 U. S. 151, 158. For the same reasons we
need not diseiss like objections based on the Federal
Safety Appliances Act.
Affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 339.

Argued February 15, 1932.-Decided March 1-1,
1932.

Enginer officers of the War Department, assigned to duty in connection with the improvement of rivers and harbors or the work of
the California Debris Commission, are not within the meaning of

