AETNA CASUALTY CO. v. PHOENIX CO.

209

Syllabus.

204

Cousins, 6 Rand. 188, 191, 18 Am. Dec. 715; Gibert v.
Colt, 1 Hopk. Ch. 496, 14 Am. Dec. 557, and note."
The writ is a restraint upon the common right of movement from place to place within the United States and
upon emigration. It has been abolished in some States
and its use is largely regulated and restricted by statute
in others.* And § 261 of the Judicial Code strictly governs the granting of the writ in federal courts.
Section 9 (b) provides a substitute for and so excludes
the use of the writ against bankrupts. As respondent is
not a bankrupt, that subdivision does not authorize his
arrest or afford him protection. There is no reason for
stricter measures to compel others to submit to examination. General authority to compel attendance and the
giving of testimony is conferred by § 21a and §2 (13)
and (16). And, in the absence of language specifically
disclosing that purpose, Congress will not be deemed to
have intended to subject officers of bankrupt corporations or other witnesses to arrests and detentions, by writ
of ne exeat or otherwise, against which § 9a and b protects bankrupt persons. We conclude that the court had
no authority under § 2 (15) or otherwise to make the
order of arrest and ne exeat under consideration.
Judgment affirmed.
AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO. v. PHOENIX
NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 413.

Argued January 25, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. A surety company's undertaking to indemnify and hold harmless
a bank from any loss through payment of falsely raised checks or
• See authorities cited in note, 14 Am. Dec. 560.
137818°-32-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

285U.S.

forged endorsements implies a right of subrogation to claims which
the bank might assert against depositors upon whose accounts such
checks are drawn, based on their alleged negligence in drawing
them or in not notifying the bank of the forgeries. P. 214.
2. Under such a contract the liability of the surety which accrues
when a forged check is paid, is discharged when the bank relinquishes its right against the depositor. Id.
3. In a suit for indemnity in which the defense is relinquishment of
a claim of right to which the indemnitor should have been subrogated, tile burden rests upon the indemnitee to show that the
claim was unsubstantial. P. 216.
4. Under a contract to indemnify a bank from loss through payment
of forged checks, the indemnitor is liable and may be sued when
such check has been paid. The bank is not called upon first to
defend against claims of the depositor or prosecute its own claims
against endorsers. Id.
44 F. (2d) 511, reversed.
CERTIoRARI, 284 U. S. 608, to review the reversal of a
judgment in favor of the above-named petitioner in an
action by the bank on a contract of indemnity.

Mr. Samuel M. Wilson, with whom Messrs. Charles
Kerr, Clinton M. Harbison, and A. K. Shipe were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James Park, with whom Messrs. Richard C. Stoll

and Wallace Muir were on the brief, for respondent.
The loss covered by the bond was the loss of the bank's
own money. It was sustained when the checks were-paid,
irrespective of any possible right of recoupment in spe-

cial cases by future implied ratification by a depositor,
estoppel of a depositor to assert the forgery, or recourse

upon responsible endorsers. Fitchburg Savings Bank v.
Massachusetts B. & I. Co., 174 N. E. 324; Sprague v.
West Hudson County Trust Co., 92 N. J. Eq. 639; First
Nat. Bank v. Merchants Trust Co., 140 Atl. 582; Royal
Indemnity Co. v. American Vitrified Products Co., 158
N. E. 827; Kimbell Trust "&S. Bank y. Hartford Accident

AETNA CASUALTY CO. v. PHOENIX CO.
209

211

Opinion of the Court.

& Ind. Co., 333 Ill. 318; Royal Indemnity Co. v. North
Texas Nat. Bank, 25 S. W. (2d) 822.
The bank was not required to attempt recoupment of
its loss sustained at the time of payment before proceeding against the insurer. Champion Ice Mfg. Co. v. Amnerican Bonding Co., 115 Ky. 863; First Nat. Bank v. U. S.
Fidelity & G. Co., 137 N. W. 744; National Surety Co. v.
Sheridan County, 33 F. (2d) 473.
Even if the loss was sustained by the bank upon the
recredit to the depositor's account, this does not defeat
recovery in this action, as a legal adjudication of the
bank's liability is not required. Ocean Accident & G.
Corp. v. Old Nat. Bank, 4 F. (2d) 753; Globe Indemnity
Co. v. 'Union & Planters Trust Co., 27 F. (2d) 496.
The petitioner has not shown that the recredit to the
depositor's account was voluntary,-that is that the bank
was not legally liable to make such a recredit-because (a)
a depositor is under no duty to examine endorsements on
cancelled checks for forgery; he has a right to assume that
the bank has ascertained their genuineness; (b) knowledge of the depositor's agent, and officer, committing the
fraud, is not attributable to the depositor; (c) though the
depositor be negligent in the examination of the cancelled
checks, the bank must be free of negligence in paying
them to defeat liability to the depositor; (d) the burden
is upon one asserting non-liability of the bank to the depositor to show that the bank was not negligent in the
payment of the checks; and (e) the delay of the depositor
in discovering the forgery must be shown to have prejudiced the bank.
The bank would have incurred a hazard not covered by
the bond if it had refused to make the recredit demanded
by the depositor.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought by respondent, a national bank,
in the Circuit Court of Fayette County, Kentucky, to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

cover on a bond of indemnity issued by the petitioner.
The cause was removed to the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky, which, after
a trial by the court upon an agreed statement of facts,
gave judgment for petitioner. Judgment of reversal by
the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, 44 F. (2d) 511,
is here for review on certiorari.
The indemnity bond, issued upon payment of a stipulated premium, undertook to indemnify the respondent
for "any loss through the payment . .
of forged
or raised checks or (genuine) checks bearing forged endorsements. .
."
On different dates between May
12, 1924, and June 23, 1925, while the bond was in force,
a corporation depositor of respondent drew thirty-nine
checks upon its deposit account in favor of third persons.
The endorsements of the payee on thirty-five of the
checks were forged, and the amounts payable on the other
four and on eighteen others were raised by one Fulton,
who was the vice president and treasurer of the depositor,
having charge of its checkbooks and books of account.
Authority to sign the checks was vested in the president
and one other, who was not an officer of the depositor. All
the checks bore genuine endorsements made subsequent
to the forgeries, two of them by Fulton alone. All were
paid by respondent on presentation, and the amounts
paid were charged to the depositor's account. Monthly
statements were rendered to the depositor, accompanied
by the cancelled checks. No agents or representatives of
the depositor other than Fulton, the forger, examined the
depositor's accounts, cancelled checks, or books of account. The checks were prepared for signature by Fulton. The representatives of the depositor who signed
them relied wholly on him for their accuracy and for the
names of the payees. All of the raised checks "were
completed in writing by Fulton, except that the line for
the application of the protectograph was left blank, and

AETNA CASUATY CO. v. PHOENIX CO.
209

213

Opinion of thc Court.

were signed, before the application of the protectogroph
to them. And Fulton was trusted to fill in the line stating
the amount of the cheque, with the proteetograph, and
was charged with the duty of delivering the cheques,
whether by mail or in person."
About August 7th, a month after the payment of the
last check, the depositor gave notice of the forgeries to
the respondent and demanded that the sum of $5,512.72,
representing so much of the payments as were induced by
the forgeries, be recredited to its account. The respondent in turn asked payment of that amount of petitioner
in satisfaction of its liability on the indemnity bond. Petioner, while admitting liability if respondent was not
authorized to charge the depositor with the loss, insisted
that the depositor was so chargeable because of its negligence and delay in notifying respondent of the forgeries
and its negligence in drawing the checks. It offered to
defend any suit brought against the respondent by the
depositor with respect to the loss, and asked respondent
to give notice of the forgeries to prior endorsers and to
demand reimbursement from them. Respondent failed
to comply with any of these requests and later credited
its depositor with the disputed amount.
The petitioner, by way of defense, set up specifically
the bank's assumption of the loss by crediting the depositor in the face of the latter's alleged negligence and
omissions. The court below thought that the question
presented was merely one of the time of the loss indemnified against, and as that had occurred when the checks
were paid by respondent, later events determining the
ultimate incidence of the loss as between the bank and
its depositor or endorsers, were immaterial. Hence it
concluded that the subsequent credit to the depositor of
the amount of the loss and the consequent relinquishment
of any claim against the depositor or others, had no bearing on the liability of the indemnitor. The court said:

OCTOlBER TElPM\[, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

in the present case, the loss was suffered and
the liability arose from time to time as the checks were
paid; and, when finally the bank cancelled the charges
and recredited the total, it was not then suffering a loss;
it was abandoning a claim for recoupment of its earlier
loss-a claim which at first it did not have. We think,
therefore, that the policy should be read as indemnity
against the original loss, and not as holding the liability
in the air until it can finally be determined whether the
bank had a right to make the charge back." 44 F. (2d)
511, 512.
We think that the respondent could not relinquish any
claims it might have had against the depositor and preserve unimpaired its right to the indemnity. Petitioner's
undertaking "to indemnify . . . and hold harmless" the respondent from any loss sustained by reason
of the specified payments, contained no words indicating
an intention to destroy the indemnitor's usual privilege
of subrogation to the indemnitee's right to recover from
any who are liable to it for the loss. That privilege was
a necessary incident to petitioner's contract, for only by
resort to it could the character of the contract as indemnity be preserved. It is both the object and the justification of subrogation that it makes exact indemnity the
measure of the liability. See Standard Marine Insurance
Co., Ltd. v. Scottish Metropolitan Assurance Co., Ltd.,
283 U. S. 284; United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
166 U. S. 468; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry.
Co. v. Commercial Union Ins. Co., 139 U. S. 223, 235;
Hall & Long v. The Railroad Companies, 13 Wall. 367;
Jones v. Bacon, 145 N. Y. 446, 450; 40 N. E. 216.
Even though we assume, as the court below held, that
petitioner's liability attached on payment of the checks,
and that respondent had none the less suffered a loss even
though it might be able to recoup it from others, see

AETNA CASUALTY CO. v. PHOENIX CO.
209

215

Opinion of the Court.

Champion Ice Mfg. & Cold Storage Co. v. American
Bonding & Trust Co., 115 Ky. 863; 75 S. W. 197, respondent was still under a duty not to impair the rights
which petitioner, upon payment of its obligation, might
The failure to observe
enforce against third persons.
that duty, by stating an account which relinquished all
claims against its depositor, see Greenhalgh Co. v. Farmers' National Bank, 226 Pa.. 184, 188; 75 Atl. 260, released the petitioner from the liability which had already
accrued. See Sims v. Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 101 Wis. 586;
77 N. W. 908; Illinois Automobile Ins. Exchange v.
Braun, 280 Pa. 550; 124 Atl. 691; American Surety Co.
v. Balman, 104 Fed. 634; Jones v. Bacon, supra. To
hold that respondent could, without affecting its indemnity, release its rights against those who might be liable
for its loss would be to hold, by a parity of reasoning,
that respondent could enforce them with a similar lack
of effect upon its right to recover from petitioner. In
either case petitioner's contract would be converted from
one of indemnity, as stipulated, into an unqualified obligation to repay to the bank the amounts which it was
induced to pay by the forgeries.
It is unnecessary to decide with finality what might
have been the rights of the bank against other parties. It
is enough to say that neither the decisions in the federal
courts nor the statutes and decisions of Kentucky, which
are controlling, preclude a successful defense to assertion
of a claim by the depositor.1 If the indemnitee assumes
I Carroll's Ky. Stat. (1930) §§ 3720b-124, 125, provide that material
alterations avoid a negotiable instrument "except as against a party
who has himself made, authorized or assented to the alteration and
subsequent endorsers." These sections have been interpreted as permitting a holder to enforce the instrument where the maker has
negligently left blank spaces which have been filled out in violation of
the maker's authority. See Hackett v. First National Bank, 114 Ky.
193; 70 S. W. 664; Woolfolk v. Bank of America, 73 Ky. 504; Blakey

OCTOBlER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

to relinquish its rights without the consent of its indemnitor, the burden rests on it to establish that they are nonexistent or unsubstantial. See J11ilsoL v. Hite's Executor,
154 Ky. 61, 69; 157 . W. 41; Wheeler v. Sweet, 137 N. Y.
435, 443; 33 N. E. 483.
The court below thought that it was not reasonable to
suppose that the bank had intended to buy a kind of indemnity which would involve it in litigation with its depositors, since the purpose of the bank was to keep its
depositors and not to alienate them. As the liability had
already attached on payment of the checks, the bank
might have sued its indemnitor at once, and was not
called on to defend itself against claims of its depositor
or to prosecute its own claims against the endorsers. Insurance Co. v. Stinson, 103 U. S. 25. But it could not, as
it has sought to do, retain its indemnity and withhold
from its indemnitor the privilege of contesting or making
such claims. See American Surety Co. v. Greek Catholic
Union, 284 U. S. 563. If such was respondent's object,
it should have taken from petitioner not a contract of
indemnity, as it did here, but one to pay to it all amounts
disbursed on forged checks.
Reversed.
v. Johnson, 76 Ky. 197, 204; Cason v. Grant County Deposit Bank,

97 Ky. 487; 31 S. W. 40; Diamond Distilleries Co. v. Gott, 137 Ky.
585; 126 S. W. 131. Compare Commercial Bank v. Arden & Fraley,
177 Ky. 520; 197 S. W. 951; Maryland Casualty Co. v. Dickerson,
213 Ky. 305; 280 S. W. 1106; Rice & Givens v. Citizens National
Bank, 51 S. W. 454; 21 Ky. L. R. 346. And see Champion Ice Mfg.
& Cold Storage Co. v. American Bonding & Trust Co., 115 Ky. 863,
874-875; 75 S. W. 197; London Joint Stock Bank, Ltd. v. MacMillan
& Arthur, [1918] A. C. 777.
As to the possibility that the depositor may have been estopped to
assert a claim against the bank, because of negligence in examining its
statements and accounts, see Leather Manufacturers'Bank v. Morgan,
117 U. S. 96; Empire Trust Co. v. Cahan, 274 U. S. 473, 479-480;
Critten v. Chemical National Bank, 171 N. Y. 219; 63 N. E. 969.

