OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

in the realm of conjecture. The evidence is consistent
with an hypothesis that the tug was not negligent and
with one that it was, and therefore has no tendency to
establish either. Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 94, and
cases cited.
We find that respondent caused unnecessary parts of the
record to be printed amounting in all to 186 pages. This
is admitted in a statement filed by counsel for respondent. The cost of such printing will be charged to
respondent. Rule 13, par. 9.
Decree affirmed.
D. GINSBERG & SONS, INC. v. POPKIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 429.

Argued February 16, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

A court of bankruptcy has no authority under § 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act or § 261 of the Judicial Code to issue a writ of ne exeat
against an absconding officer of a bankrupt corporation to the end
that he may be examined in the bankruptcy proceedings. P. 206.
50 F. (2d) 693, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

284 U. S. 609, to review the reversal of an

order sustaining the issuance of a writ of ne exeat in
bankruptcy proceedings. Dist. Ct., 47 F. (2d) 276.
Mr. Leo J. Linder, with whom Mr. Raymond J.
Mawhinney was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis Jersawit for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The district court in the eastern district of New York
adjudged the Foster Construction Corporation a bankrupt, and in June, 1930, a trustee was appointed. Respondent was president and petitioner was a creditor of

GINSBERG & SONS v. POPKIN.
Opinion of the Court.

204

the corporation. Decenber 4, 1930. petitioner presented
to one of the judges in the southern (list rict of New York
a petition, the brief substance of which follows:

In 1929, about the time the petition in bankruptcy was
filed, respondent withdrew, and has failed to account for,
a large amount of cash belongiig to the corporation. He
fled to Canada in order to avoid examination and did not
return until January. 1030. About that time the court
in the eastern district issued an order of iccxcat against
him, but he fled again and later returned to the borough
of Manhattan, where he was then concealing himself
with the intention of immediately leaving the United
States to avoid examination. The petition stated that
respondent's lestimovy would be in aid of creditors and
that, had lie been requested so to do, the trustee would
have refused to apply for his arrest, and that therefore
the petitioner made the application for an ancillary order
of examination and arrest in aid of itself and other creditors. It was shown that a julge in the eastern district
authorized petitioner to apply for this order in the southern district.
On these representations the judge made ,an order of
examination and arrest. And on the same (lay he signed
another order, under the caption "Writ Ne Exeat," coiinanding the marshal to apprehend respondent, take him
into custody and bring him befbre the judge for examination " or, at his option, cause him to give sufficient bail or
security in the sum of $10,000
that he the said
Joseph Popkin will not depart from or go
beyond the territorial jurisdiction of this court without

its leave, and will at all times and in all manner, respect
and things, obey and comply with the lawful orders and
decrees of the court herein for his examination, in default
of which he is to be lodged in New York County Jail
.

.

"

In obedience to that command the marshal

arrested respondent.

He gave the prescribed bail and

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

206

285U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the clerk released him from custody. Then respondent
applied to a judge in the southern district to have the
order vacated on the ground that it was made without
jurisdiction. The motion was denied. 47 F. (2d) 276.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 50 F. (2d) 693.
The petitioner contends that clause (15) of § 2 empowers district judges in bankruptcy cases, upon the application of a creditor, to issue orders directing the arrest
of officers of bankrupt corporations.
The words of § 2 relied on are: "The courts of bankruptcy

.

are hereby invested

.

.

.

.

with such

jurisdiction at law and in equity as will enable them
to exercise original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings

.

.

.

to

(15)

make such orders, issue

such process, and enter such judgments in addition
to those specifically provided for as may be necessary for
the enforcement of the provisions of this Act."
Clause (15) is to be construed having regard to the
other parts of , 2, to the provisions of the Act in respect
of examinations concerning the business and property of
bankrupts, and to § 261 of the Judicial Code relating to
writs of ne exeat.
Section 2 creates courts of bankruptcy and in general
terms, by twenty separately numbered clauses, confers
upon them authority in respect of at least as many matters relating to bankruptcies. By clause (13) bankruptcy
courts are empowered by means of fine or imprisonment
to enforce obedience by bankrupts and others to all lawful
orders, and by clause (16) to punish persons for contempts committed before referees. Section 7a (9) makes
it the duty of the bankrupt, when present at the first
meeting of creditors and at such other times as the court
shall order, to submit to examination concerning his business, acts and property. Section 21a empowers the court
upon the application of a creditor to require any desigi.ated person, including the bankrupt, to appear for simi-

GINSBERG & SONS v. POPKIN.
204

Opinion of the Court.

lar examination. Section 9a exempts the bankrupt from
arrest upon civil proccss issued from a court of bankruptcy except for contempt or disobedience of its lawful
orders. And § 9b specifically governs arrests a nd detention of bankrupts about to leave the district iin order to
avoid examination. It is as follows:
"The judge may, at any time after the filing of a
petition by, or against a person, and before the expiration
of one month after the qualification of the trustee, upon
satisfactory proof by the affidavits of at least two persons
that such bankrupt is about to leave the district in which
he resides or has his principal place of business to avoid
examination, and that his departure will defeat the proceedings in bankruptcy, issue a warrant to the marshal,
directing him to bring such bankrupt forthwith before
the court for examination. If upon hearing the evidence
of the parties it shall appealr to the court or a judge
thereof that the allegations are true and that it is necessary, he shall order such marshal to keep such bankrupt in custody not exceeding ten days, but not imprison
him, until he shall be examined and released or give bail
conditioned for his appearance for examination, from time
to time, not exceeding in all ten days, as required by the
court, and for his obedience to all lawful orders made in
reference thereto."
Section 261 of the Judicial Code provides that writs of
ne exeat may be granted by any district judge in cases
where they might be granted by the district court of which
he is a judge, and declares: "But no writ of ne excat
shall be granted unless a suit in equity is commenced,
and satisfactory proof is made to the court or judge
granting the same that the defendant designs quickly
to depart from the United States."
In view of the general exemption of bankrupts from
arrest under § 9a and the carefully guarded exception
made by § 9b as to those about to leave the district to

208 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

avoid examination, there is no support for petitioner's
contention that the general language of § 2 (15) is a
limitation upon § 9 (b) or grants additional authority in
respect of arrests of bankrupts. General language of a
statutory provision, although broad enough to include it,
will not be held to apply to a matter specifically dealt
with in another part of the same enactment. United
States v. Chase, 135 U. S. 255, 260. Specific terms prevail over the general in the same or another statute which
otherwise might be controlling. Kepner v. United States,
195 U. S. 100, 125. In re Hassenbusch, 108 Fed. 38.
United States v. Peters, 166 Fed. 613, 615. The construction contended for would violate the cardinal rule that, if
possible, effect shall be given to every clause and part of a
statute. Market Co. v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112, 115. Ex
parte Public National Batk, 278 U. S.101, 104.
Assuming that under § 2 (15) bankruptcy courts are
empowered to allow writs of ve exeat, that granted in
this case was without warrant, for conditions made essential by the conunon law and as well by the Judicial Code
were lacking.
Speaking for the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in
Davidor v. Rosenberg, 130 Wis. 22; 109 N. W. 925, Mr.
Justice Winslow described the writ of ne exeat as follows
(p. 24): "At common law it was simply a writ to obtain
equitable bail. It was issued by a court of equity on
application of the complainant against the defendant
when it appeared that there was a debt positively due,
certain in amount or capable of being made certain, on
an equitable demand not suable at law (except in cases
of account and possibly some other cases of concurrent
jurisdiction), and that the defendant was about to leave
the jurisdiction, having conveyed away his property, or
under other circumstances which would render any decree
ineffectual. Dean v. Smith, 23 Wis. 483. Rhodes v.

AETNA CASUALTY CO. v. PHOENIX CO.

209

Syllabus.

204

Cousins, 6 Rand. 188, 191, 18 Am. Dec. 715; Gibert v.
Colt, 1 Hopk. Ch. 496, 14 Am. Dec. 557, and note."
The writ is a restraint upon the common right of movement from place to place within the United States and
upon emigration. It has been abolished in some States
and its use is largely regulated and restricted by statute
in others.* And § 261 of the Judicial Code strictly governs the granting of the writ in federal courts.
Section 9 (b) provides a substitute for and so excludes
the use of the writ against bankrupts. As respondent is
not a bankrupt, that subdivision does not authorize his
arrest or afford him protection. There is no reason for
stricter measures to compel others to submit to examination. General authority to compel attendance and the
giving of testimony is conferred by § 21a and §2 (13)
and (16). And, in the absence of language specifically
disclosing that purpose, Congress will not be deemed to
have intended to subject officers of bankrupt corporations or other witnesses to arrests and detentions, by writ
of ne exeat or otherwise, against which § 9a and b protects bankrupt persons. We conclude that the court had
no authority under § 2 (15) or otherwise to make the
order of arrest and ne exeat under consideration.
Judgment affirmed.
AETNA CASUALTY & SURETY CO. v. PHOENIX
NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 413.

Argued January 25, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. A surety company's undertaking to indemnify and hold harmless
a bank from any loss through payment of falsely raised checks or
• See authorities cited in note, 14 Am. Dec. 560.
137818°-32-14

