452

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

amendment of. corporate charters, and sustains the repeal
upon the ground that the liability by the law of its creation was defeasible in its origin.
MR..J.USTICE

BRANDEIS

and MR.

JUSTICE

STONE join in

this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 466.

Argued February 19, 23 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

1. A 'complaint charged that the defendants conspired to sell, possess, transport, furnish, deliver and take orders for intoxicating
liquors, contrary to the National Prohibition Act; and that as
part of the conspiracy, they were to use a designated room in
soliciting orders for the liquor, having it delivered by express companies or other carriers, collecting for it and sharing 'in the proceeds. Under a warrant of arrest issued upon the complaint, the
defendants were arrested in the room designated, which was used
as an office and was not alleged to be a place where liquor was,
or ever had been, manufactured, sold, kept or bartered, or which
contained fixtures or other things essential or intended to be used
for the sale of liquors to be consumed on the premises or otherwise. Upon making the arrests, the officers explored all desks,
cabinets, waste baskets, etc., for evidence of. guilt and found
various books, papers and other things intended. to be used in
soliciting orders for liqucr, which they took away. Held:
(1) The mere soliciting of orders from the room, in connection
with the other uses, alleged in the complaint, was not sufficient to
constitute maintenance of a nuisance therein. P. 462.
(2) There was no ground for saying that the accused were arrested while committing the crime of conspiracy or nuisance.
P. 463.
(3) The search was not justifiable as an incident of the arrests.
P. 463;
2. The Fourth Amendment forbids every search that is unreasonable
and is, construed liberally to safeguard the right of privacy. P. 464.

. UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ.
452

Argument for the United States.

3. A search for and seizure of an individual's papers, solely'that
they may be used as evidence to convict him of crime, is unconstitutional, even when done under a search warrant issued upon
ample evidence and. precisely describing the things to be taken and
their whereabouts. P. 464.
4. The decisions of this Court distinguish searches of one's house,
office, papers or effects merely to get evidence to convict him of
crime, from searches such as those made to find stolen goods for
return to the owner, to take property that has been forfeited to the
Government, to discover property concealed to avoid payment of
duties for which it is liable, and from searches such as those made"
for the seizure of counterfeit coins, burglars' tools, gambling paraphernalia and illicit liquor in order to prevent the commission of
crime. P. 465.
5. The Constitution is to be construed with regard to the principles
upon which it was established. The direct operation or literal
meaning of the words used do not measure the purpose or scope
of its provisions. P. 467.
52 F. (2d) 52, affirmed.
CERTIORARi, 284 U. S.. 612, to review a reversal of an
order of the District Court, 47 F. (2d) 921, which denied a
motion for the suppression, as evidence,, of papers, etc.,
seized at the time of serving a warrant of arrest.

Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and Messrs. John J. Byrne and
Wilbur H. Friedman were on the brief, for the United
States.
Since the arrests were lawful, search of the premises
where they were made was lawful; and the search made
was not unreasonable.
Until Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616 it was
settled that the admissibility of evidence was not affected
by the illegality of -the means by which it was obtained.
State v. Reynolds, 101 Conn. 224, 237; Adams v. New
York, 192 U. S. 585; Wigmore, Ev., 2d. ed., § 2183. Hence
the question of the extent of the right of arresting officers
to make search arose, typically, in actions against them

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

285 U.S.

for damages. Banks v. Farwell, 21 Pick. 156; Spalding v.
Preston, 21 Vt. 9; Houghton v. Bachman, 47 Barb. 388;
Closson v. Morrison, 47 N. H. 482; O'Connor v. Bucklin,
59 N. H. 589; Dillon v. O'Brien, 16 Cox C. C. 245 (Ex.
Div. Ire. 1887); Thatcher v. Weeks, 79 Me. 547; Carmichael v. McCowen, (1897-1903) Newfoundland 597;
Getchell v. Page, 103 Me. 387; cf. Kneeland v. Connally,
70 Ga. 424; State v. Robbins, 124 Ind. 308; North v.
People, 139 Ill. 81; Newman v. People, 23 Colo. 300. The
case of Entick v. Carrington,19 How. St. Tr. 1029, was
an action of trespass against officers who had, under a
general warrant, entered the plaintiff's premises, arrested
him, and searched for and seized his books and papers.
The general rule was early stated to be that upon making a valid arrest the arresting officer was privileged to
search for and seize articles connected with the crime
either as its fruits, or as the means by which it was committed, or as evidence which would aid in securing a conviction. Such articles might be taken if on the person of
tihe prisoner or otherwise in his possession. Bishop, Crim.
Pro., (1st ed. 1866), § 668; cases cited supra.
While the doctrine of the Boyd case is too firmly established in federal law to be questioned now, its historically questionable basis (see Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.
43, 71-73; Adams v. New York, 192 U., S. 58 5, 597-598;
Wiginore, Ev. (2d ed.), §§ 2184, 2250, 2264; cf. Wilson v.
United States, 221 U. S. 361), and its rejection by the
great majority of the state courts (see People v. Defore,
242 N. Y. 13, 21; State v. Reynolds, 101 Conn. 224),
should not be forgotten when the attempt is made, as it is
in the present case, to extend the effect of the Fourth
Amendment far beyond its express language and original
intent.
Early approach to the present problem is illustrated by
the leading case of Dillon v. O'Brien, 16 Cox C. C. (Ex.'
Div. Ire.) 245, approved in Weeks v. United States, 232

UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ.
452

Argument for the United States.

U. S. 383, 392; Carrollv. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 158.
See also Carmichael v. McCowen, (1897-1903) Newfoundland 597; Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20;
United States v. Lee, 274 U. S. 559, 563; Marron v.
United States, 275 U. S. 192.
Thus there is a substantial body of authority in this
Court upholding the privilege of an arresting officer to
search for and seize evidence of the crime for which the
arrest is made, as indicated in the Weeks and Carroll
cases, supra, and the means or instrumentalities used in
its commission, as held in the Agnello and Marron cases,
supra; and the privilege extends "to all parts of the
premises used for the unlawful purpose." In the Marron
case the premises searched consisted of an entire second
floor of six or seven rooms; in the present case, a business
office room, about ten by twenty feet, divided by a partition, which "constituted but single premises." The books
and papers, here seized as an incident of a lawful arrest,
were properly taken, in so far as they were means used
in furthering the conspiracy for which the arrest was
made.
The case is lacking in those factors, the sum of which
was regarded by this Court in the Go-Bart case, 282 U. S.
344, as rendering the search there involved unreasonable.
The court in Entick v. Carringtonwas not dealing with
a search incidental to a lawful arrest. Such a search is
totally different from the type of search aimed at by the
Fourth Amendment. Cf. Banks v. Farwell, 21 Pick. 156,
159; North v. People, 139 Ill. 81, 107.
It was the duty of the officers to make a thorough search
of the premises under the control of the accused for the
instrumentalities of the crime. See Getchell v. Page, 103
Me. 387; Smith v. Jerome, 47 Misc. (N. Y.) 22; Commonwealth v. Stubler, 84 Pa. Super. Ct. 32; State v. Magnano, 97 Conn. 543; Banks v. Fa'rwell, 21 Pick. 156;
State v. Robbins, 124 Ind. 308.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respon(dCnts.

285 U.S.

As held by. this Court in the Marron case, supra, nothing:can be searched for and seized under a search warrant
except that which is specifically described in it; whereas,
upon a lawful arrest, the arresting officers have the right
to search for and seize any articles used in the commission
of the offense for which the arrest is made. A search of
the latter sort is necessarily general in the sense that it
is for things the existence of which can not be known until
they are found.
Searches " general'! in this sense as well as in their
scope have been upheld by the state courts as incidents of
lawful arrests. Argetakis v. State, 24 Ariz. 599; Pickett
v. Marcucci's Liquors, 112 Conn. 169; Commonwealth v.
Phillips, 224 Ky. 117; Smith v. Jerome, 47 Misc. (N. Y.)
22; Commonwealth v. Stubler, 84 Pa. Super. Ct. 32. See
also Dillon v. O'Brien, 16. Cox C. C. 245; Carmichael v.
McCowen, (1897-1903) Newfoundland 587.
Mr. David P. Siegel, with whom Mr. Milton B. Seasonwein was on the brief, for respondents.
The arrests, though lawful, did not justify a ransackiwg
and exploratory search of the premises. Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S.383; Silverthorne v. United States, 251
U. S.385; Boyd t.United States, 116 U. S.616; Gouled
.v.United States, 255 U. S.295; Marron v. Urnited States,
275 U. S. 192; Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United States,
282 U. S.344; Federal Trade Comm. v. American Tobacco
Co., 264 U. S. 298; Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20.
These principles have been vigorously enforced in the
Circuit Courts of Appeals and in the District Courts.
Flagg v. United States, 233 Fed. 481; In re 191 Front Street,
5 F. (2d) 282;, United States v. Kirschenblatt, 16 F. (2d)
202; United States v. 1013 Crates, 52 F. (2d) 49; United
States v. Mills, 185 Fed. 318; United States v. Mounday,
208 Fed. 186; United States v. Epstein, 33 F. (2d) 982;
United States v. Kraus, 270 Fed. 578; United States v.
Rembert, 284 Fed. 996; Haywood v. United States, 268
Fed. 795.

UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ.

•457
4

Opinion of the Court.

452

Two separate and distinct prohibitions are contained
in-the Fourth Amendment. It prohibits unreasonable
searches and seizures of any kind, however made. It interdicts, secondly, the issuance of search warrants except
where probable cause exists and where the warrant is
upon oath or affirmation and contains a particular description of the place to be searched and the persons or
things to be seized. To limit the constitutional protection against unreasonable searches and seizures to those
nfade under the guise of a search warrant, as is contended
for by theSolicitor General, is to emasculate the Amendment. So interpreted it would be reduced to a form of
words and it could be evaded as the occasion arose.
Wherever possible, a search warrant and a warrant of
arrest should be employed by the arresting officers. See
Carrollv. United States, 267 U. S. 132. This was not done
here because the officers knew that they could not obtain
a search warrant for the evidentiary material which they
sought. See Kirvin v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 282; and
States v. Kirschenblatt, 16 F. (2d) 202.
United
General exploratory searches for evidence are
within the
proscription. of the Fourth Amendment even wher'e. there
is not an actual physical rummaging of the premises.
Section 33 of Title 27, U. S. Code, is limited to cases
where intoxicating liquor is sold or stored on the premises.
At the time when the respondents were arrested the
alleged conspiracy had been consummated; the agents did
not, nor could they, see conspiracy being committed.
In Dillon v. O'Brien, 16 Cox C.' C. (Ex. Div. Ire.) 245,
the papers seized were actually being used when the arrest
was made. This Court cited that decision in the Weeks
case only for the proposition that the person of the accused might be searched upon his arrest.
MR.

JUSTicn

BUTLER delivered the opinion'of the Court.

The question is whether searches and seizures claimed
by the Government to have been made as lawfully inci-

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

dent to the arrest of respondents on a warrant for conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act transgressed their rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
January 12, 1931, a prohibition agent complained to a
United States commissioner in the southern district of
New York that commencing June 21, 1930, and continuing to the time of making the complaint Henry Miller
(meaning respondent Lefkowitz), Jane Doe (meaning respondent Paris), and another person called Richard Doe
did conspire to sell, possess, transport, furnish, deliver and
take orders for intoxicating liquor contrary to the National Prohibition Act. The complaint alleged it was a
part of the conspiracy that from room 604 at 1547 Broadway defendants should solicit orders for liquor, have it
delivered by express companies or other carriers, collect
for it and share the proceeds. It alleged certain overt
acts but they have no significance upon the question
under consideration. The allegations of the complaint
show that the complaining witness had knowledge and
information of facts amply sufficient to justify the
accusation.
The commissioner issued his warrant, to which was
attached a copy of the complaint,, commanding the marshal and his deputies to arrest defendants. It was given
to a deputy marshal for execution and he, the complaining
witness and three other prohibition agents, went to room
604. The room was about ten feet wide and twenty feet
long and was divided by a partition. In its outer portion,
there were a stenographer's desk used by respondent Paris,
a towel cabinet and a waste basket; and in the inner part
another desk and basket. When the deputy marshaLand
agents entered, Lefkowitz was in the room. The deputy
marshal arrested him, and thereupon one of the prohibisearched and took from his person various
tion
paPersagents
and other
things all of which were given to the
deputy marshal and later turned over to the assistant
United States attorney. The agents opened all the

UNITED STATES. v. LEFKOWITZ.
452

Opinion of the Court.

drawers of both deiks, examined their contents, took
and carried away books, papers and other artitherefrom
cles. 1 They
also searched the towel cabinet and took
'From the outer desk were taken:'
1. Black leather covered loose-leaf note book, containing alphabetical list of names and addresses.
2. An envelope marked room 604, 1547 Broadway, New York City,
containing a 1929 New York State motor vehicle registration certificate 5 Y-2555, issued to Milton Hordish, 635 Kelly Street, Bronx,
N. Y., for a 1929 Nash sedan.
3. A bill or statement amounting to $25 addressed to Herman Bernstein, c/o Bernstein & Lefkowitz, 1547 Broadway, New York City,
apparently sent by doctors whose names appear on the statement.
4. Business card bearing the name of Dave Scherl, giving his address
and telephone number and residence telephone number.
5. A number of business cards reading as follows:
Herman Bernstein
Dan Lefkowitz
LEFKOWITZ

& BERNSTEIN

1547 Broadway
New York City
Room 604
Chickering'4-8928
.6. About 25 sheets of typewriter paper with the heading thereon
of "William Salmon, 1547 Broadway; room 604."
7. About 75 envelopes addressed to. various persons throughout the
United States, some of which contained undated letters bearing the
typewritten signature "William Salmon" to the effect that he had
made his yearly change of name from "Henry Miller" to "William
Salmon" and that he had received a new stock of merchandise that
was for sale.
8. A cardboard covered loose-leaf binder, containing an alphabetical
typewritten list of names and addresses.
9. A stenographer's note book and text book.
10. Three raffle books.
From the inner desk were taken:
1. Bottle partly full of alcohol (not shown to be intended or fit for
beverage).
2. Telephone address book containing names of persons and telephone numbers.
3. Business card.
4. Blank order book with some of the slips torn out.
5. Several business cards of Bernstein & Lefkowitz.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

papers from it.2 There was no breaking, as the desks and
cabinet were not locked. They also took the contents of
the baskets and later pasted together pieces of papers found
therein.' Respondent Paris came in while the room was
being searched, and the deputy marshal arrested her. All
the searches and seizures were made without a search
warrant. The prohibition agents delivered to the special
agent in charge all the things taken from the desks, cabinet
and baskets. And, ,until delivered to the assistant United
States attorney after Lefkowitz: applied to the court for
their suppression and return, they were held by the agent
in charge for use in making: further investigations concerning the conspiracy referred to in the complaint.
January 21, 1931, the district court on the application
of Lefkowitz issued an order to show cause, why the court
'Several typeWritten loose leaf sheets unbound bearing names and
addresses of numerous people throughout the United States.
'The writings made by pasting together pieces of paper taken from
the baskets were:'
Edison Company electric light bill from October 31 to December 3,
1930, for room.604 at 1547 Broadway, reading No. 6223, bill addressed
to Herman Bernstein at 1547 Broadway.
Edison Company electric light bill from December 3, 1930, to January 5, 1931, for room 604 at 1547 Broadway, reading No. 6248, bill
addressed'to Herman Bernstein at 1547 Broadway.
Unsigned letter from Lefkowitz & Bernstein, 1547 Broadway, to
L. Lieberman, 34 E. 12th Street, New York City, for merchandise
delivered, $80.
Some 32-odd salesmen's order slips for intoxicating liquor with;customers' names and addresses.
N. Y. Telephone Co, receipt No. 6225 dated January 8, 1931, acknowledging having received from Daniel Lefkowitz sum of $14.26 for
telephone service, Chic. 4-8928.
A pencil memorandum containing names with amounts set after the
respective names, some of these names being Myers, Gordon, French,
and K.
A pencil memorandum containing names with amounts set after the
names, one of them being Dan, $537, the total amount of the memorandum being $1,497.95.

UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ.
452

461

Opinion of the Court.

should not make an order for the suppression of evidence
obtained by reason of the search of the room and for the
return of all the books, papers and other things belonging
to Lefkowitz. With the exception of some things that the
prosecuting attorney did not wish to retain as evidence
and which he had returned to Lefkowitz before the hearing, all the papers and articles seized were produced and
submitted to the. court' The Government submitted, in
,opposition to respondents' motions, affidavits of its attorney, thedeputy marshal and three of the four prohibition
agentS.
The district court denied respondents' motions. It construed the complaint to charge felony under § 37 of the
Criminal Code defining conspiracy and § 21 _of. the NaL
tional Prohibition Act defining nuisance; held that each
of the papers seized was within the meaning of §§ 21 and.
22, kept and.used to maintain a nuisance; said that "it is
enough if the conspiracy was ther- or the petitioners or
their associates. had any of them gathered in the room to
conduct the conspiracy or do any act to effect its object";
that "it might well follow that, in the sense of the word
.as used in the Carrollcase, [267 U. S. 132] the seized papers were' contraband ',.; and that "it is not necessary,
however, to determine that, for the reason that, at least
within the Matron case [275 U. S. 192] all the papers were
but usual and ordinary means of carrying on a business of
the character presented here." 47 F. (2d) 921.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 52 F. (2d) 52.
It found that the search of the person of Lefkowitz was
lawful and that the things taken might be used as evidence
against him; held that the, things seized when the office
and furnitdire we'e explored did not belong to the same
class; referred to " the firmly rooted proposition that what
are called general exploratory searches throughout premises and personal property are forbidden," and sa*id that it
did not matter" whether the articles of personal property

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

opened and the contents examined are numerous or few,
the right of personal security, liberty, and private property is violated if the search is general, for nothing specific,
but for whatever the containers may hide from view, and
is based only on the eagerness of officers to get hold of
whatever evidence they may be able to bring to light ...
Such a search and seizure as these officers indulged themselves in is not like that in Marron v. United States . . .
where things openly displayed to view were picked up by
the officers and taken away at the time an arrest was made.
The decision that does control is Go-Bart Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 344. Indeed, this case differs in its essential facts from that one so slightly that what is said in
that opinion in characterizing the search made will apply
with equal force to this one, which must accordingly be
held unreasonable."
The Government maintains that the facts and circumstances set forth in the affidavits submitted by it constitute a sufficient showing not only that the arrests were
lawfully made on a valid warrant for the offense charged
in the complaint but also that, without regard to the
warrant, the arrests were justified as having been made
for a felony by officers believing upon probable cause
that respondents committed it and that when arrested
they were actually engaged in the commission of crime.
And it argues that, since the arrests were lawful, the
search of the place where they were made was lawful, and
that, having the right to search the premises, the officers
were bound to do it thoroughly.
It is clear that respondents were arrested in the proper
execution of the warrant, and not by officers acting without a warrant merely upon probable cause to believe that
respondents Were guilty of a felonious conspiracy. The
offense charged involved the use of the room only to
solicit orders for liquor, .to cause it to .be delivered, to
collect for it and divide proceeds. There is nothing in

UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ.
452

Opinion of the Court.

the record to support the claim that, at the time of the
arrest, the offense for which the warrant issued or any
other crime was being committed in the presence of the
officers. It cannot be claimed that they saw conspiracy
being committed or that any understanding, agreement
or combination was being had, made or formed in their
presence. Go-Bart Co. v. United States, supra, 357.
The maintenance of a nuisance or conspiracy to maintain one is not involved. The complaint did not attempt
or purport to charge either. It did not allege that the
room was a place where liquor was or ever had been
manufactured, sold, kept or bartered or that it contained
fixtures or other things essential or intended to be used for
the sale of liquor to be consumed on the premises or
otherwise. The mere soliciting of orders from the room
in connection with the other uses alleged in the complaint
is not sufficient to constitute the maintenance of nuisance
therein. See §§ 18, 21 and 22, National Prohibition Act,
27 U. S. C., §§ 30, 33 and 34. Miller v. United States,
300 Fed. 529, 535. Schechter v. United States, 7 F. (2d)
881. Cf. Todd v. United States, 48 F. (2d) 530, 532.
The facts and circumstances stated in the affidavits of the
prohibition agents do not support but are inconsistent
with and negative the assertions therein contained to the
effect that respondents were arrested while committing
the crime of conspiracy or nuisance.
The only question presented is whether the searches of
the desks, cabinet and baskets and the seizures of the
things taken from them were reasonable as an incident
of the arrests. And that must be decided on the basis
of valid arrests under the warrant. Save as given by
that warrant and as lawfully incident to its execution,
the officers had no authority over respondents or anything in the room. The disclosed circumstances clearly
show that the prohibition agents assumed the right contemporaneously with the-arrest to search out and scru-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion. of the Court.

.285 U.S.

tinize everything in the room in order to asceitain whether
the books, papers or other things contained or constituted evidence of respondents' guilt of crime, whether
that specified in the warrant or some other offense against
the Act. Their conduct was unrestrained. The lists
printed in the margin show how numerous and varied
were the things found and taken.
The Fourth Amendment forbids every search that is
unreasonable and is construed liberally to safeguard the
right of privacy., Byars v. United States, 273 U. S. 28, 32.
Its protection extends to offenders as well as to the law
abiding. Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383. Agnello
v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, 32. The authority of
officers to search -one's' house or place of business. contemporaneously with his lawful arrest therein upon a
valid warrant of arrest certainly is not greater than'that
conferred by a search warrant issued upon adequate proof
and sufficiently describing the, premises and the things
sought to be obtained. Indeed, the informed and deliberate determinations of magistrates empowered to issue
warrants as to what searches and seizures are permissible
under the Constitution are to be preferred over the
hurried action of officers and others who may happen to
make arrests. Security against unlawful searches is more
likely to be attained by resort to search warrants than
by reliance upon the caution' and sagacity of petty officers while acting under the excitement that attends the
capture of persons accused of crime. United States v.
Kirschenblatt, 16 F. (2d) 202, 203. Go-Bart Co. v.
United States, supra, 358.
Respondents' papers were wanted by the officers solely
for use as evidence of crime of which respondents were
accused or suspected. They could not lawfully be
searched for and taken even under a search warrant issued
upon ample evidence and precisely describing such things

UNITED STATES v. LEFKOWITZ.
452

Opinion of the Court.

and disclosing exactly where they were. Gouled v.
United States, 255 U. S. 298, 310.
These searches and seizures are to be distinguished from
the seizure of a ledger and some bills that was sustained in
the Marron case. There, prohibition officers lawfully on
the premises searching for liquor described in a search
warrant, arrested the bartender for crime openly being
committed in their .presence. He was maintaining a
nuisance in violation of the Act. The offense involved
the element of continuity, the purchase of liquor from
time to time, its sale as a regular thing for consumption
upon the premises and other transactions including the
keeping of accounts.. The ledger and bills being in plain
view were picked up by the officers as an incident of the
arrest. No search for them was made. The ledger was
held to be part of the.outfit actually used to commit the
offense.. The bills were deemed so closely related to the
business that it was not unreasonable to consider them .as
employed .to carry it on. While no use was being ma'de
of the book or papers at the moment ,of-the arrest, theylike containers, chairs and tables for customers, the cash
register, glasses and supplies-were kept to be utilized
when needed. The facts disclosed in the opinion were
held to justify the inference that when the arrest was made
the ledger and bills were in use to carry on the criminal
enterprise.
Here, the searches were exploratory and general :and
made solely to find evidence, of respondents' guilt of the
alleged conspiracy or some other crime. Though intended
to be used to solicit orders fcr liquor in violation of the
Act, the papers and other articles found and taken were
in themselves unoffending. The- decisions of this court
distinguish searches of one's house, office, papers or effects
merely to get evidence to convict him of crime, from
searches such as those made to find stolen goods for return
1378_8°-32--30

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

to the owner, to take property that has been forfeited to
the Government, to discover property concealed to avoid
payment of duties for which it is liable, and from searches
such as those made for the seizure of counterfeit coins,
burglars' tools, gambling paraphernalia and illicit liquor
in order to prevent the, commission of crime. Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, et seq. Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S. 383, 395. Gou'led v. United States,
supra, 306. Carrollv. United States, supra.
In Entick v. Carrington, 19 How. St. Tr. 1029, Lord
Camden declared that one's papers are his dearest property, showed that the law of England did not authorize a
search of private papers to help forward conviction even
in cases of most atrocious crime, and said (p. 1073):
"Whether this proceedeth from the gentleness of the law
towards criminals, or from a consideration that such a
power would be more pernicious to the innocent than useful to the public, I will not say. It is very certain, that
the law obligeth no man to accuse himself; because the
necessary means of compelling self-accusation, falling
upon the innocent as well as the guilty, would be both
cruel and unjust; and it should seem, that search for evidence is disallowed upon the same principle. There too
the innocent would be confounded with the guilty."
The teachings of that great case were cherished by our
statesmen when the Constitution was adopted. In Boyd
v. United States, supra, 630, this Court said: " The principles laid down in this opinion [Entick v. Carrington]
affect the very essence of constitutional liberty and security. . . .They apply to all invasions on the part of
the Government and its employees of the sanctity of a
man's home and the privacies of life. . . . A forcible and
compulsory extraction of a man's own testimony or of his
private papers to be used as evidence to convict him of
crime or to forfeit his goods is with.in the condemnation
of that judgment. In this regard the Fourth and Fifth

SHRIVER v. WOODBINE BANK.
Syllabus.

452

Amendments run almost into each other." And this
Court has always construed provisions of the Constitution
having regard to the principles upon which it was established. The direct operation or literal meaning of the
words used do not measure the purpose or scope of its
provisions. M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 406,
407, 421. Boyd v. United States, supra. Byars v. United
States, ubi supra.
This case does not differ materially from the Go-Bart
case and is ruled by it. An arrest may not be used as a
pretext to search for evidence. The searches and seizures
here challenged must be held violative of respondents'
rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDoZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
SHRIVER V. WOODBINE SAVINGS BANK.
APPEAL

No. 158.

FROM

THE SUPREME

COURT OF IOWA.

Submitted December 3, 1931.-Argued March 14, 15,
1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

1. An objection to a state statute upon the ground that it places on
a stockholder an obligation to pay assessments not imposed by the
statutes in force when he acquired his stock invokes the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment rather than the contract
clause of the Constitution. P. 474.
2. A party making this objection based on the Fourteenth Amendment must show that the statutes existing when his contract was
made did not impose the obligation laid by the later statute;
and if this is doubtful upon the face of the statutes and for want
of an authoritative construction by the state court, the objection
will not be entertained. P. 475.
3. When the statutes in force when a stockholder of a bank acquired
his stock make him liable to pay assessments to restore impairments of the bank's capital, the obligation may be enforced, in the
absence of an exclusive statutory remedy, by a common-law action
of debt, or its modern equivalent. P. 476.

