COMMONWEALTH CO. v. BRADFORD.

613

Argument for Petitioners.

COMMONWEALTH TRUST COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH ET AL. v. BRADFORD, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 273.

Argued February 5, 6, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.

1. Tile District Court has jurisdiction over suits by receivers of
national banks. 28 U. S. C., ยง 41 (1) and (16). P. 617.
2. A suit by a receiver of 'a national bank to determine his right of
participation as cestui que trust in a trust originally set up and
administered by the bank but turned over, with the receiver's
consent, to a successor trustee appointed by a state court, is a
suit within the equity jurisdiction of the federal court. P. 618.
3. Its jurisdiction having been invoked in such a suit, it is the duty
of the federal court to determine the issues involved. Id.
4. Such a suit is not in rem; the decree sought determines the right
of the receiver against the trustee, but does not interfere with the
trustee's possession or with the power of the state court to order
distribution of assets, and its prosecution is not opposed to rules
of comity. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176; and Penn
General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 189, distinguished.
P. 619.
5. Property in the possession of a trustee is not in custodia legis, as
is property in the possession of a receiver. P. 619.
78 F. (2d) 92, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 564, to review the question of

jurisdiction and its appropriate exercise in a suit by the
receiver of a national bank against a trustee appointed
by a state court, to establish the rights of the plaintiff
in the trust fund. The court below affirmed with modifications the decree of the district court in favor of the
receiver.
Mr. William A. Wilson, with whom Mr. W. Denning
Stewart was on the brief, for petitioners.
Inasmuch as the subject matter of the suit was a trust

fund, without an accounting no adjudication of the rights
of the receiver of the bank against the fund being ad-

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

ministered by the trustee of the state court is possible.
Furthermore, the proceeding in the District Court constituted an interference with the possession and control
of the res in the custody of the Orphans' Court. Kline v.
Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226; Lion Bonding &
Surety Co. v. Karatz,.262 U. S. 77.
As the trust res was in the prior custody of the state
court, the District Court was without jurisdiction to order
an accounting. Waterman v. Canal LouisianaBank, 215
U. S. 33; Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608.
When the state court took jurisdiction of the res and
the actual possession of it had passed into the hands of
its officer, the state court thereby acquired the power
to determine all controversies relating to the collection,
distribution and status of *claims against the property.
Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 609, 611.
What the bank did was voluntarily to pay interest to
the participants in the pool, which it is not entitled to
recover back. Trust Co. v. Ricketts, 75 F. (2d) 309.
The bank was not a creditor of the mortgage pool fund,
because that fund is not a legal entity. An estate or a
fund has no legal status. Hess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73.
A trust relationship does not create the relationship of
debtor and creditor. Bryan v. Welch, 74 F. (2d) 964,
970. The remedy of a cestui que trust is in equity.
If the decree in the case at bar is res judicata, then the
liquidation of the mortgage pool and the plan of distribution thereof by the Orphans' Court, which has possession of it, has been, in part at least, interfered with by the
decree of the federal court. Riehle v. Margolies, 279
U. S. 218, 222.
If the respondent was aggrieved by the orders of the
state court he was bound to seek his redress in the state
court. Grant v. Buckner, 172 U. S. 232, 238.
The necessity of an accounting was inherent in the case
as presented by the bill. As there was nothing in the

COMMONWEALTH CO. v. BRADFORD.
613

615

Opinion of the Court.

bill, except matters of accounting arising out of a trust
res, which the state court had within its custody, the
District Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the bill.
Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608, distinguished.
Comity required a dismissal of the suit. Pennsylvania
v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176; Penn General Casualty Co. v.
Penvylvania, 294 U. S. 189.
The proceeding was fatally defective for want of indispensable parties.
The four individual defendants are not representatives
of a class, and they do not represent the four hundred
trust participants in the mortgage pool, nor can the interests of all the trust estate participants be presumed
to be the same.
Messrs. John G. Frazer and George P. Barse, with
whom Mr. Robert L. Kirkpatrick was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUsTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The order granting this certiorari limited our consideration "to the question of jurisdiction aAd its appropriate
exercise."
The facts, not in serious dispute, were fully set out
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. It will suffice now to
restate those bearing particularly on the points for
decision.
The Trust Department of The Bank of Pittsburgh
National Association-The Bank-acquired real estate
mortgages and held them in a pool apart from other
assets. It sold participation shares therein to sundry
customers and issued appropriate certificates. Interest
on the mortgages, when collected, was distributed to
these, as agreed. Difficulties arose; many debtors de-

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

faulted; and, to meet the demands of certificate holders,
The Bank advanced $40,000.
In September, 1931 The Bank failed; the Comptroller
of the Currency appointed first Thomas, then Atwood,
and finally respondent Bradford, as Receiver to wind up
its affairs. Desiring to relinquish control of the mortgage pool, the Receiver consented to the appointment
by the Orphans' Court of petitioner, Commonwealth
Trust Co., as successor trustee for the pool assets, and delivered all of them to it. The face value of mortgages
so delivered exceeded the total outstanding certificates
by $291,000.
The Orphans' Court authorized the trustee to distribute among certificate holders funds collected from mortgage debtors, but nothing went to the Receiver of The
Bank," "the Court directing that payments to him be
suspended pending a judicial determination of" his rights
"to participate in such distribution."
Thereupon, the Receiver instituted these equity proceedings in the United States District Court. The Commonwealth Trust Co., as trustee, and four certificate
holders were made defendants. The prayer of the bill
asked an adjudication of the Receiver's right to be paid
the excess of the mortgage debts over outstanding certificates ($291,000) from assets of the pool; also his privilege to receive therefrom the amount advanced by The
Bank ($40,000) on account of agreed interest upon the
certificates; and for general relief.
The District Court granted relief as prayed. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the bill stated a cause in
equity within the jurisdiction of the trial court and, with
certain modifications, affirmed its decree. As so modified
and finally approved, this provides:1. That there is due and payable to the plaintiff, Avery
J. Bradford, Receiver of The Bank of Pittsburgh National Association, out of interest moneys collected and
to be collected by the Commonwealth Trust Company

COMMONWEALTH CO. v. BRADFORD.
613

617

Opinion of the Court.

as Trustee of the mortgage pool formerly held by The
Bank of Pittsburgh National Association from mortgages
in said mortgage pool, the sum of $40,213.58 advanced
to the mortgage pool by The Bank of Pittsburgh National
Association.
2. That the plaintiff, Avery J. Bradford, Receiver of
The Bank of Pittsburgh National Association, is a participant and cestui que trust to the amount of $291,020.45 in the mortgage pool formerly administered by
The Bank of Pittsburgh National Association and now
being administered by the defendant, Commonwealth
Trust Company as Trustee.
3. That there is now due and payable from the defendant, Commonwealth Trust Company, Trustee as aforesaid, to Avery J. Bradford, Receiver of The Bank of
Pittsburgh National Association, the sum of $26,191.84,
being the amount withheld from said Receiver under
previous distributions to participants other than said Receiver on account of principal, and the sum of $29,225.26,
being the amount withheld from said Receiver under previous distributions to participants other than said Receiver on account of income and the sum of $1,254.84,
being the interest earned and collected by the Commonwealth Trust Company, Trustee as aforesaid, on the
amounts withheld from said Receiver.
4. That this court retain jurisdiction of this cause for
the purpose of making such other orders and decrees, if
any, as may become necessary.
5. The claims established in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall
have priority of payment over any future distribution of
assets to participants in the pool.
Petitioners do not deny that ordinarily District Courts
of the United States have original jurisdiction of suits by
Receivers of National Banks; Title 28, U. S. C. 41 (1 and
16) ; Gibson v. Peters, 150 U. S. 342, 344; In re Chetwood,
165 U. S. 443, 458; United States v. Weitzel, 246 U. S.
533, 541; and that the parties were before the trial court.

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

But they maintain the cause stated by the bill was not
one cognizable in equity, since the subject matter was a
fund held by a trustee under appointment of the state
court against whi-h no adjudication was possible in the
absence of an accounting-the necessity of this was inherent in the cause as presented. Also, that to enforce
the remedy sought would necessarily interfere with
possession and control of the res in the custody of the
Orphans' Court. And further, that under the rule of
comity approved in Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S.
176 and Penn General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania,294
U. S. 189, the trial court should have dismissed the proceedings.
The original bill revealed that the Receiver had been
denied participation as a cestui que trust in the assets
held by petitioner Trust Company, and asked an adjudication of his rights therein. He did not seek direct interference with possession or control of the assets; he prayed
that his right to partake thereof be determined. The
claim was an equitable one, within the ordinary jurisdiction of the chancellor. "In all cases in which an action
of account would be the proper remedy at law, and in all
cases where a trustee is a party, the jurisdiction of a court
of equity is undoubted; it is the appropriate tribunal."
Fowle v. Lawrason's Executor, 5 Peters 495, 503; Clews
v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461, 479-480; Alexander v. Hillman, 296 U. S. 222.
Jurisdiction having been properly irivok-d it became
the duty of the trial court to determine the issues, unless
required by rules based on comity to relegate the complainant to the state court. This may not be done except
in special and peculiar circumstances not revealed, we
think, by the present record. McClellan v. Carland,217
U. S. 268, 281, held"It, therefore, appeared upon the record presented to
the Circuit Court of Appeals that the Circuit Court had

COMMONWEALTH CO. v. BRADFORD.
613

619

Opinion of the Court.

practically abandoned its jurisdiction over a case of which
it had cognizance, and turned the matter over for adjudication to the state court. This, it has been steadily held,
a federAl court may not do. Chicot C6unty v. Sherwood,
148 U. S. 529, 534."
See also Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226,
234.
The trust here involved was created by The Bank's
voluntary action, not by the Orphans' Court. Whatever
control the latter possessed resulted solely from appointment of the successor trustee and, for present purposes,
did not materially differ from that exercised by probate
courts over such fiduciaries as guardians, administrators,
executors, etc. The jurisdiction of federal courts to entertain suits against the latter is clear, when instituted in
order to determine the validity of claims against the estate or claimants' interests therein. Such proceedings
are not in rem.; they seek only to establish rights; judgments therein do not deal with the property and order
distribution; they adjudicate questions which precede
distribution. Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 608, 620; Security Trust Co. v. Black River National Bank, 187 U. S.
211, 227; Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank & Trust
Co., 215 U. S.33, 43; Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U. S.218,
223; Harrisonv. Moncravie, 264 Fed. 776, 779. Property
in its (the trustee's) posession is not in custodia legis as
in case of receivers. Hinkley v. Art Students' League, 37
F. (2d) 225, 226; Appeal of Hall, 112 Pa. 42, 54; 3 Atl.
783; Strouse v. Lawrence, 160 Pa. 421, 425; 28 Atl. 930;
Goodwin v. Colwell, 213 Pa. 614, 616; 63 Atl. 363; Nevitt
v. Woodburn, 190 Ill. 283, 289; 60 N. E. 500.
The trial court properly exercised the jurisdiction which
it acquired. The doctrine approved in Pennsylvania v.
Williams, and Penn General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, is not applicable. In each of those cases we
found conflict between the federal court and authorities

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U S.

of the State concerning liquidation of the business and
assets of an insolvent local corporation. The question
was whether, under the peculiar circumstances disclosed,
the federal court should retain jurisdiction; its power
generally to render judgment in personam against fiduciaries appointed by state courts was expressly recognized. Here there are no extraordinary circumstances.
As contemplated by Congress the Receiver sought an adjudication of his rights. The final decree produced no interference with the trustee's possession, nor with the
power of the Orphans' Court to order distribution of
assets. The Receiver's privilege to participate has been
declared; only a judgment in personam was rendered.
Congress has empowered Receivers of National Banks
to sue in federal courts; the obvious importance of permitting them freely to do so cannot be disregarded.
All necessary parties were brought before the trial
court. The claim to the contrary is without merit.
The challenged decree 13
Affirmed.

GEORGIA RAILWAY & ELECTRIC CO.

ET AL.

V.

DECATUR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 625. Argued March 9, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.
1. This Court reversed the judgment of a state court, at- a former
hearing, upon the ground that a statute of the State, as apparently
construed by that court, deprived the complaining party of property without due process of law; and by its mandate remanded
the cause to the state court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this Court's opinion. Held that the state court was not inhibited by the mandate from restating its construction of the
statute so as to avoid the constitutional objection, and from enforcing the statute as thus explained. P. 628.

