278

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 US.

be division and subdivision unless separation can be
found to be so void of rationality as to be the expression
of a whim rather than an exercise of judgment. "We have
no right," it is now said, "to conjure up possible situations which might justify the discrimination." The court
has taught a different doctrine in its-arlier decisions.
"A statutory discrimination will not be set aside as the
denial of equal protection of the laws if any state of facts
reasonably may be conceived to justify it." Metropolitan
Casualty Insurance Co. v. Brownell, 294 U. S. 580, 584;
Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 357;
O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 282
U. S. 251, 257; Williams v. Mayor, 289 U. S. 36, 42. On
this occasion, happily, the facts are not obscure. Big
dealers and little ones, newcomers in the trade and veterans, were clamorously asserting to the legislature their
title to its favor. I have not seen the judicial scales so
delicately poised and so accurately graduated as to balance and record the subtleties of all these rival equities,
and make them ponderable and legible beyond i reasonable doubt.
To say that the statute is not void beyond a reasonable
doubt is to say that it is valid.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE join

in this opinion.
BROWN ET AL. v. MISSISSIPPI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 301. Argued January 10, 1936.-Decided February 17, 1936.
Convictions of murder, which rest solely upon confessions shown to
have been- extorted by officers of the State by torture of the
accused, are void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 279, 285. " 173 Miss; 542; 158 So. 339; 161 So. 465, reversed.

BROWN v. MISSISSIPPI.
278
CERTIORARI,

Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S. 559, to review a judgment affirm-

ing convictions of murder.
Mr. Earl Brewer, with whom Mr. J. Morgan Stevens
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. William D. Conn, Jr., and William H. Maynard, Assistant Attorneys General of Mississippi, with
whom Mr. Greek L. Ribe, Attorney General, was on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question in this case is whether convictions, which
rest solely upon confessions shown to have been extorted
by officers of the State by brutality and violence, are
consistent with the due process of law required by the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
Petitioners were indicted for the murder of one Raymond Stewart, whose death occurred on March 30, 1934.
They were indicted on April 4, 1934, and were then arraigned and pleaded not guilty. Counsel were appointed
by the court to defend them. Trial was begun the next
morning and was concluded on the following dakr, when
they were found guilty and sentenced to death.
Aside from the confessions, there was no evidence sufficient to warrant the submission of the case to the jury.
After a preliminary inquiry, testimony as to the confessions was received over the objection of defendants'
counsel. Defendants then testified that the confessions
were false and had been procured by physical torture.
The case went to the jury with instructions, upon the
request of defendants' counsel, that if the jury had reasonable doubt as to the confessions having resulted from
coercion, and that they were not true, they were not to
be considered as evidence. On their appeal to the Su-

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

preme Court of the State, defendants assigned as error
the inadmissibility of the confessions. The judgment was
affirmed. 158 So. 339.
Defendants then moved in the Supreme Court of the
State to arrest the judgment and for a new trial on the
ground that all the evidence against them was obtained
by coercion and brutality known to the court and to the
district attorney, and that defendants had been denied
the benefit of counsel or opportunity to confer with counsel in a reasonable manner. The motion was supported
by affidavits. At about the same time, defendants filed in
the Supreme Court a "suggestion of error" explicitly challenging the proceedings of the trial, in the use of the
confessions and with respect to the alleged denial of representition by counsel, as violating the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States. The state court entertained the suggestion
of error, considered the federal question, and decided it
against defendants' contentions. 161 So. 465. Two
judges dissented. Id., p. 470. We granted a writ of
certiorari.
The grounds of the decision were (1) that immunity
from self-incrimination is not essential to due process of
law, and (2) that the failure of the trial court to exclude
the confessions after the introduction of evidence showing
their incompetency, in the absence of a request for such
exclusion, did not deprive the defendants of life or liberty
without due process of law; and that even if the 'trial
court had erroneously overruled a motion to exclude the
confessions, the ruling would have been mere error reversible on appeal, but not a violation of constitutional right.
Id., p. 468.
The opinion of the state court did not set forth the
evidence as to the circumstances in which the confessions
were procured. That the evidence established that they
were procured by coercion was not questioned. The state

BROWN v. MISSISSIPPI.
278

Opinion of the Court.

court said: "After the state closed its case on the merits,
the appellants, for the first time, introduced evidence
from which it appears that the confessions were not made
voluntarily but were coerced." Id., p. 466. There is no
dispute as to the facts upon this point and as they are
clearly and adequately stated in the dissenting opinion of
Judge Griffith (with whom Judge Anderson concurred)showing both the extreme brutality of the measures to
-extort the confessions and the participation of the state
authorities--we quote this parb of his opinion in full, as
follows (Id., pp. 470, 471):
"The crime with which these defendants, all ignorant
negroes, are charged, was discovered about one o'clock
p. m. on Friday, March 30, 1934. On that night one Dial,
a deputy sheriff, accompanied by others, came to the home
of Ellington, one of the defendants, and requested him to
accompany them to the house of the deceased, and there
a number of white men were gathered, who began to
accuse the defendant of the crime. Upon his denial they
seized him, and with the participation of the deputy they
hanged him by a rope to the limb of a tree, and having
let him down, they hung him again, and when he was let
down the second time, and he still protested his innocence,
he was tied to a tree and whipped, and still declining to
accede to the demands that he confess, he was finally
released and he returned with some difficulty to his home,
suffering intense pain and agony. The record of the testimony shows that the signs of the rope on his neck were
plainly visible during the so-called trial. A day or two
thereafter the said deputy, accompanied by another, returned to the home of the said defendant and arrested
him, and departed with the prisoner towards the jail in
an adjoining county, but went by a route which led into
the State of Alabama; and while on the way, in that State,
the deputy stopped and again severely whipped the defendant, declaring that he would continue the whipping

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

until he confessed, and the defendant then agreed to confess to such a statement as the deputy would dictate, and
he did so, after which he was delivered to jail.
"The other two .defendants, Ed Brown and Henry
Shields, were also arrested and taken to the same jail.
On Sunday night, April 1, 1934, the same deputy, accompanied by a number of white men, one of whom was also
an officer, and by the jailer, came to the jail, and the two
last named defendants were made to strip and they were
laid over chairs and their backs were cut to pieces with a
leather strap with buckles on it, and they were likewise
made by the said deputy definitely to understand that the
whipping would be continued unless and until they confessed, and not only confessed, but confessed in every
matter of detail as demanded by those present; and in
this manner the defendants confessed the crime, and as
the whippings progressed and were repeated, they
changed or adjusted their confession in all particulars of
detail so as to conform to the demands of their torturers.
When the confessions had been obtained in the exact form
and contents as desired by the mob, they left with the
parting admonition and warning that, if the defendants
changed their story at any time in any respect from that
last stated, the perpetrators of the outrage would administer the same or equally effective treatment.
"Further details of the brutal treatment to which these
helpless prisoners were subjected need not be pursued.
It is sufficient to say that in pertinent respects the transcript reads more like pages torn from some medieval
account, than a record made within the confines of a modern civilization which aspires to an enlightened constitutional government.
"All this having been accomplished, on the next day,
that is, on Monday, April 2, when the defendants had
been given time to recuperate somewhat from the tortures
to which they had been subjected, the two sheriffs, one

BROWN v. MISSISSIPPI.
278

Opinion of the Court.

of the county where the crime was committed, and the
other of the county of the jail in which the prisoners were
confined, came to the jail, accompanied by eight other
persons, some of them deputies, there to hear the free and
voluntary confession of these miserable and abject defendants. The sheriff of the county of the crime admitted
that he had heard of the whipping, but averred that he
had no personal knowledge of it. He admitted that one
of the defendants, when brought before him to confess,
was limping and did not sit down, and that this particular
defendant then and there stated that he had been
strapped so severely that he could not sit down, and as
already stated, the signs of the rope on the neck of another of the defendants were plainly visible to all. Nevertheless the solemn farce of hearing the free and voluntary
confessions was gone through with, and these two sheriffs
and one other person then present were the three witnesses used in court to establish the so-called confessions,
which were received by the court and admitted in evidence over the objections of the defendants duly entered
of record as each of the said three witnesses delivered
their alleged testimony. There was thus enough before
the court when these confessions were first offered to
make known to the court that they were not, beyond all
reasonable doubt, free and voluntary; and the failure of
the court then to exclude the confessions is sufficient to
reverse the judgment, under every rule of procedure that
has heretofore been prescribed, and hence it was not necessary subsequently to renew the objections by motion or
otherwise.
"The spurious confessions having been obtained-and
the farce last mentioned having been gone through with
on Monday, April 2d-the court, then in session, on the
following day, Tuesday, April 3, 1934, ordered the grand
jury to reassemble on the succeeding day, April 4, 1934,
at nine o'clock, and on the morning of the day last men-

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

tioned the grand jury returned an indictment against the
defendants for murder. Late that afternoon the defendants were brought from the jail in the adjoining county
and arraigned, when one or more of them offered to plead
guilty, which the court declined to accept, and, upon
inquiry whether they had or desired counsel, they stated
that they had none, and did not suppose that counsel
could be of any assistance to them. The court thereupon
appointed counsel, and set the case for trial for the following morning at nine o'clock, and the defendants were
returned to the jail in the adjoining county about thirty
miles away.
"The defendants were brought to the courthouse of the
county on the following morning, April 5th, and the socalled trial was opened, and was concluded on the next
day, April 6, 1934, and resulted in a pretended conviction
with death sentences. *Theevidence upon which the conviction was obtained was the so-called confessions. Without this evidence a peremptory instruction to find for the
defendants-would have been inescapable. The defendants
were put on the stand, and by their testimony the facts
and the details thereof as to the manner by which the
confessions were extorted from them were fully developed,
and it is further disclosed by the record that the same
deputy, Dial, under whose guiding hand and active participation the tortures to coerce the confessions were administered, was actively in the performance of the supposed duties of a court deputy in the courthouse and in
the presence of the prisoners during what is denominated,
in complimentary terms, the trial of these defendants.
This deputy was put on the stand by the state in rebuttal,
and admitted the whippings. It is interesting to note
that in his testimony with reference to the whipping of
the defendant Ellington, and in response to the inquiry as
to how severely he was whipped, the deputy stated, 'Not
too much for a negro; not as much as I would have done
were. left to me.' Two others who had -nart.ninat ri
if it.

BROWN v. MISSISSIPPI.
278

Opinion of the Court.

in these whippings were introduced and admitted it-not
a single witness was introduced who denied it. The facts
are not only undisputed, they are admitted, and admitted
to have-been done by officers of the state, in conjunction
with other participants, and all this was definitely well
known to everybody connected with the trial, and during
the trial, including the state's prosecuting attorney and
the trial judge presiding."
1. The State stresses the statement in Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 114, that "exemption from compul,
sory self-incrimination in the courts of the States is not
secured by any part of the Federal Constitution," and the
statement in Snyder v. Massachusetts, 291 U. S.97, 105,
that ."the privilege against self-incrimination may be
withdrawn and the accused put upon the stand as a witness for the State." But the question of the right of the
State to withdraw the privilege against self-incrimination
is not here involved. The compulsion to which the quoted
statements refer is that of the processes of justice by
which the accused may be called as a witness and required
to testify. Compulsion by torture to extort. a confession
is a different matter.
The State is free to regulate the procedure of its courts
iIh accordance with its own conceptions of policy, unless
in so doing it "offends some principle of justice so rooted
in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be
ranked as fundamental."
Snyder v. Massachusetts,
supra; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425, 434. The State
may abolish trial by jury. It may dispense with indictment by a grand jury and substitute complaint or information. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Hurtado v.
California,110 U. S.516; Snyder v. Massachusetts, supra.
But the freedom of the State in establishing its policy is
the freedom of constitutional government and is limited
by the requirement of due process of law. Because a
State may dispense with a jury trial, it does not follow
that it may substitute trial by ordeal. The rack and tor-

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court

297 U.S.

ture chamber may not be substituted for the witness stand.
The State may not permit an accused to be hurried to
conviction under mob domination-where the whole proceeding is but a mask-without supplying corrective process. Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S. 86, 91. The State may
not deny to the accused the aid of counsel. Powell v.
Alabama, 287 U. S. 45. Nor may a State, through the
action of its officers, contrive a conviction through th6
pretense of a trial which in truth is "but used as a means
of depriving a defendant of liberty through a deliberate
deception of court and jury by the presentation of testimony known to be perjured." Mooney v. Holohan, 294
U. S. 103, 112. And the trial equally is a mere pretense
where the state authorities have contrived a conviction
resting solely upon confessions obtained by violence. The
due process clause requires "that state action, whether
through one agency or another, shall be consistent with
the fundamental principles of liberty and justice which
lie at the base of all our civil and political institutions."
Hebert v. Louisiana,272 U. S. 312, 316. It would be difficult to conceive of methods more revolting to the sense
of justice than those taken to procure the confessions of
these petitioners, and the use of the confessions thus obtained as the basis for conviction and sentence was a clear
denial of due process.
2. It is in this view that the further contention of the
State must be considered. That contention rests upon
the failure of counsel for the accused, who had objected
to the admissibility of the confessions, to move for their
exclusion after they had been introduced and the fact of
coercion had been proved. It is a contention which proceeds upon a misconception of the nature of petitioners'
complaint. That complaint is not of the commission of
mere error, but of a wrong so fundamental that it made
the whole proceeding a mere pretense of a trial and rendered the conviction and sentence wholly void. Moore
v. Dempsey, supra. We are not concerned with a mere

-BROWN v. MISSISSIPPI.
278

Opinion of the Court.

question of state practice, or whether counsel assigned
to petitioners were competent or mistakenly assumed that
their first objections were sufficient. In an earlier case
the Supreme Court of the State had recognized the duty of
the court to supply corrective process where due process
of law had been denied. In Fisher v. State, 145 Miss.
116, 134; 110 So. 361, 365, the court said: "Coercing the
supposed state's criminals into confessions and using such
confessions so coerced from them against them in trials
has been the curse of all countries. It was the chief inequity, the crowning infamy of the Star Chamber, and the
Inquisition, and other similar institutions. The constitution recognized the evils that lay behind these practices
and prohibited them in this country. .

.

. The duty of

maintaining constitutional rights of a person on trial for
his life rises above mere rules of procedure and wherever
the court is clearly satisfied that such violations exist, it
will refuse to sanction such violations and will apply the
corrective."
In the instant case, the trial court was fully advised by
the undisputed evidence of the way in which the confessions had been procured. The trial court knew that there
was no other evidence upon which conviction and sentence
could be based. Yet it proceeded to permit conviction
and to pronounce sentence. The conviction and sentence
were void for want of the essential elements of due process, and the proceeding thus vitiated could be challenged
in any appropriate manner. Mooney v. Holohan, supra.
It was challenged before the Supreme Court of the State
by the express invocation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
That court entertained the challenge, considered the federal question thus presented, but declined to enforce petitioners' constitutional right. The court thus denied a
federal right fully established and specially set up and
claimed and the judgment must be
Reversed.

