WHITFIELD v. OHIO.
Syllabus.

WHITFIELD v. OHIO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 377.

Argued February 7, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

1. In order that federal questions decided by a state appellate court
may be reviewable here, it is not necessary that they should have
been raised in the state trial court. P. 436.
2. As applied to a citizen of another State, or to a citizen of the
United States residing in another State, a state law forbidding
sale of convict-made goods does not violate the privileges and immunities clauses of Art. IV, § 2 and the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Federal Constitution, if it applies also and equally to the
citizens of the State that enacted it. P. 437.
3. A judgment upon an indictment containing several counts, with a
verdict of guilty upon each, will be sustained if any count is good,
and sufficient in itself to support the judgment. P. 438.
4. A State may classify as an evil the sale of convict-made goods in
competition with goods made by free labor and forbid such sales
on the open market. P. 439.
5. In view of the Act of Congress of June 19, 1929, 49 U. S. C.,
§ 60, commonly called the Hawes-Cooper Act, the power of a State
to forbid sales on the open market of convict-made goods extends
to sales in the original packages of goods shipped in from other
States. Pp. 438-440.
6. Where goods are shipped from one State to another, fundamentally
the interstate transaction ends with delivery; the rule that the
consignee may sell, free from state interference, in the original
packages is but incidental and is an impediment to state regulation
which, in the case of convict-made goods, may be removed by Act
of Congress. P. 440.
7. In providing by the Hawes-Cooper Act that convict-made goods
transported into any State shall upon arrival be subject to the
operation and effect of the laws of such State to the same extent
and in the same manner as though such goods had been manufactured in such State and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason
of being introduced in the original package, Congress did not
delegate power to the States. P. 441.
49 Ohio App. 530, 197 N. E. 605; 129 Oh. St. 543, 196 N. E. 164,
affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioner.

CERTIORARI,

297 U. S.

296 U. S. 561, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a conviction and sentence on two counts for violation of an Ohio law against sales of convict-made goods.
The affirmance in the first instance was by the Ohio
Court of Appeals. The Supreme Court of Ohio dismissed
a petition in error.
Mr. Win. Logan Martin, with whom Messrs. Perry W.
Turner and Thomas E. Knight, Jr., were on the brief,
for petitioner.
In forbidding the sale of prison products in Ohio, the
law of Ohio is in conflict with the interstate commerce
clause in that it imposes a burden on an article of commerce which cannot be denominated an "outlaw of commerce." It is in conflict with the Tenth Amendment in
that, not being a police regulation, the law is an attempt
on the part of Ohio to impose its own regulations on the
Government of Alabama and 16n the petitioner, the employee and agent of Alabama. Being without constitutional basis, this law is in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment in that (1) it discriminates against petitioner, who is engaged in the sale of cotton shirts, and
in favor of inhabitants of Ohio engaged in a like calling,
and (2) deprives him of the right to follow the business
of selling the articles forbidden by such law.
The Hawes-Cooper Act of Congress is not a valid exercise of the powers of Congress to regulate interstate commerce. The goods, the movement of which Congress seeks
in this instance to regulate, have no harmful quality.
The owners of the goods have a right to use the channels
of interstate commerce to transport them from Alabama
to Ohio, for such use is not a mere privilege to be extended or withdrawn by Congress. The framers of the
Constitution and the people adopting it intended that
commerce aanong the States should be free and that

WHITFIELD v. OHIO.
431

433

Argument for Petitioner.

neither Congress nor the States should have the power to
impose an embargo among the States; the principal purpose of reposing in Congress the power to regulate commerce was to terminate the conflicting laws then existing
among the colonies. The right of transportation includes
the right of sale.
The purposes of the Hawes-Cooper'Act are set out in
the report of the Senate Committee which considered the
bill. These purposes are two: (a) to terminate the competition between prison labor and free labor, and the competition between the products manufactured in prisons
and those manufactured outside prisons, and (b) to reform state prisons in the Nation by terminating the contract method of using the labor of prisoners.
It is fundamental that the police powers of a State cannot be used to secure commercial advantages; that as to
commerce the people of the United States are oie people;
that any commercial regulation attempted by Congress
must bear a real or substantial relation to some part of
interstate commerce.
It is, therefore, the contention of the petitioner that the
combined asserted power of Congress and of the State of
Ohio undertakes to achieve an -end which is not authorized under the Constitution.
Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, and
Mr. Alfred Clum, with whom Messrs. Bon Geaslin,
Stephen Gobozy, William S. Evatt, Harry B. Hawes, and
Raymond A. Walsh were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curae were filed by
Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General, and Mr.
Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, on behalf of the State
of New York; and by Mr. Harry H. Petersdn, Attorney
General, on behalf of the State of Minnesota, both urging
affirmance of the decision of the court below.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

297 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner was charged in the Municipal Court of
Cleveland with a violation of § 2228-1 of the Ohio General Code, adopted March 23, 1933, which provides:
"After January 19, 1934, no goods, wares or merchandise, manufactured or mined wholly or in part in any other
state by convicts or prisoners, except convicts or prisoners
on parole or probation, shall be sold on the open market
in this state."
By § 2228-2, a violation of this provision subjects the offender to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $50
for the first offense. An Act of Congress passed January
19, 1929 (effective five years later), c. 79, §§ 1-2, 45 Stat.
1084, Title 49, U. S. C., § 60, commonly called the HawesCooper Act, provides:
"... All goods, wares, and merchandise manufactured,
produced, or mined, wholly or in part, by convicts or
prisoners, except convicts or prisoners on parole or probation, or in any penal and/or reformatory institutions,
except commodities manufactured in Federal penal and
correctional institutions for use by the Federal Government transported into any State or Territory of the
United States and remaining therein for use, consumption,
sale, or storage, shall upon arrival and delivery in such
State or Territory be subject to the operation and effect
of the laws of such State or Territory to the same extent
and in the same manner as though such goods, wares, and
merchandise had been manufactured, produced, or mined
in such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced in the original package
or otherwise."
The ififormation contains two counts. The first count
charges that petitioner, upon a day named, and within
the City of Cleveland, Ohio, "did unlawfully sell on the

WHITFIELD v. OHIO.
431

Opinion of the Court.

open market certain goods, wares or merchandise, to-wit:
one dozen Chambray men's work shirts, which said merchandise was manufactured in whole or in part by convicts or prisoners at Wetumpka Prison in the State of
Alabama; said prisoners so .manufacturing said articles
at the time of manufacturing same not being on parole
or probation." By the second count it is charged that
petitioner "did unlawfully sell for shipment to R. C. Kissack, via railway express from Wetumpka Prison in the
State of -Alabama to R. C. Kissack in the City of Lakewood, Ohio, . . . six dozen Chambray men's work shirts,"
manufactured by convicts or prisoners at the same prison
in Alabama. The case was tried before the court upon
a stipulation of facts substantially the same as those set
forth in the information, with the addition, in respect of
the first count, that the goods were sold in tho original
package as shipped by interstate commerce into the State
of Ohio, and that there is nothing harmful, injurious, or
deleterious about the goods sold; that the six dozen shirts
mentioned in the second count were not delivered to
Kissack at the time of sale, but were to be shipped to his
residence in Lakewood, Ohio, by railway express from the
prison in Alabama.
The case was tried without a jury. The court found
petitioner guilty upon both counts, and sentenced him to
pay a fine of $25 and costs.
An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals of Ohio,
Eighth District, Cuyahoga County, where the judgment
was affirmed. 49 Ohio App. 530; 197 N. E. 605. A petition in error to the Supreme Court of Ohio was dismissed
by that court on the ground that no debatable constitutional question was involved. 129 Ohio St. 543; 196
N. E. 164. This court granted certiorari.
Petitioner assails the constitutional validity of the
Ohio statute and also of the Hawes-Cooper Act. The
record fails to show that the points made by petitioner

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

in this court were properly raised in the. trial court. But
it sufficiently appears from the opinion of the appellate
court that that court considered and passed upon the
following contentions: that the Ohio statute abridged
the privileges and immunities of petitioner as a citizen
of the United States in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, by depriving him of the privilege of selling
'goods, manufactured in Alabama by prison labor, in
competition with citizens of Ohio engaged in selling like
goods; that the Ohio statute constituted an unauthorized regulation of and a burden upon interstate corn-merce; and that the Hawes-Cooper Act constituted an
unlawful delegation of the power of Congress to the
States. These questions, therefore, are properly here
for consideration. Home Insurance Co. v. Dick, 281
U. S.397, 405-407; Erie R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S. 148,
153.
The policy of the state of Ohio for many years, as
evidenced by its constitution and laws, has been to protect the products of free labor against competition from
similar products brought into existence by prison labor.
A section of the state constitution (Art. II, § 41),
adopted in 1918, provides:
"Laws shall be passed providing for the occupation and
employment of prisoners sentenced to the several penal
institutions and reformatories in the state; . . and goods
made by persons under sentence to any penal institution
or reformatory without the State of Ohio, and such goods
made within the State of Ohio, excepting those disposed
oftto the state or any political sub-division thereof or
to any public institution owned, managed or controlled
by the state or any political sub-division thereof, shall
not be sold within this state unless the same are conspicuously marked 'prison made.' Nothing herein containjd shall be cojstrued to prevent the passage of laws
providing that convicts may work for, and that the prod-

WHITFIELD v. OHIO.
431

Opinion of the Court.

ucts of their labor may be disposed of to, the state or any
political sub-division thereof, or for or to any public
institution owned or managed and controlled by the state
or any political sub-division thereof."
1. The court below proceeded upon the assumption
that petitioner was a citizen of the United States; and
his status in that regard is not questioned. The effect of
the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, as applied to the facts of the present case,
is to deny the power of Ohio to impose restraints upon
citizens of the United States resident in Alabama in respect of the disposition of goods within Ohio, if like
restraints are not imposed upon citizens resident in Ohio.
The effect of the similar clause found in the Fourth Article of the Constitution, as applied to these facts, would
be the same, since that clause is directed against discrimination by a state in favor of its own citizens and against
the citizens of other states. Slaughter-House Case, 1
Woods 21, 28; Bradwell v. State, 16 Wall. 130, 138.
As interpreted by the court below, the laws of Ohio passed
in pursuance of the state constitution prohibit the sale
in the open market of goods made in Ohio by convict
labor. .The statutory provision here challenged enforces,
without discrimination, -the same rule as to the convictmade goods of other states when they are brought into
Ohio; and the contention in respect of the privileges and
immunities clause must be rejected as without substance.
Compare Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58, 100; Colgate v.
Harvey, 296 U. S. 404.
2. A serious question as to the infringement of the
commerce clause of the Constitution is presented by the
second count of the information. That count alleges that
the prison-made goods described were sold to a purchaser
in Ohio for shipment via railway express from a prison
in Alabama. Whether the court below intended to sustain this count is not clear; but the state confines its

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

argument here to a defense of its asserted power to prohibit and penalize the sale of such goods upon the open
market and the statute apparently goes no further than
this. In any event, for present purposes, we lay that
count out of the case, and limit our consideration to the
first count. True, the petitioner was found guilty upon
both counts, but the penalty imposed upon him does not
exceed that which might have been exacted under the first
count if it had stood alone. The case, therefore, falls
within the rule, frequently stated by this court, that a
judgment upon an indictment containing several counts,
with a verdict of guilty upon each, will be sustained if
any count is good, and sufficient in itself to support the
judgment. Claassen v. United States, 142 U. S. 140, 146;
Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584, 595; Abrams v.
United States, 250 U. S. 616, 619; Brooks v. United States,
267 U. S. 432, 441.
The first count simply charges, in the terms of the
statute, that petifioner unlawfully sold on the open market in Ohio certain goods made by prison labor in Alabama! These goods, according to the stipulation of facts,
were sold in original packages as they were shipped in
interstate commerce into Ohio. When the goods were
sold, their transportation had come to an end; and the
regulative power of the state had attached, except so far
as that power might be affected by the fact that the packages were still unbroken. But any restrictive influence
which that fact otherwise might have had upon the state'
power was completely removed by Congress, if the HawesCooper Act be valid. That act is in, substance the same
as the Wilson Act with respect to intoxicating liquors,
passed August 8, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, as construed
and upheld by this court. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412,
421-423, 426; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 559-560, 562,
564. In effect, both acts provide (the one as construed
and the other in terms) that the subject matter of the in-

WHITFIELD v. OHIO.
431

Opinion of the Court.

terstate shipment shall, upon arrival and delivery in any
state or territory, become subject to the operation of the
local laws as though produced in such state or territory;
and shall not be exempt therefrom because introduced in
original packages. Each statute simply permits the jurisdiction of the state to attach immediately upon delivery,
whether the importation remain in the original package or
not.
In other words, -the importation is relieved from
the operation of any rule which recognizes a right of sale
in the unbroken package without state interference-a
right the exercise of which never has been regarded as a
fundamental part of the interstate transaction, but only
as an incident resulting therefrom. Rhodes v. Iowa,
supra,pp. 420, 423-424. The interstate transaction in its
fundamental aspect ends upon delivery to the consignee.
The view of the State of Ohio that the sale of convictmade goods in competition with the products of free labor
is an evil, finds ample support in fact and in the similar
legislation of a preponderant number of the other states.
Acts of Congress relating to the subject also recognize the
evil. In addition to the Hawes-Cooper Act, the importation of the products of convict labor has been denied the
right of entry at the ports of the United States and the
importation prohibited.. C. 497, § 307, 46 'Stat. 689;
Title 19 U. S. C. (1934 ed.), § 1307. And the sale to the
public in competition with private enterprise of goods
made by convicts imprisoned under federal law is forbidden. C. 340, § 5, 46 Stat. 391; Title 18 U. S. C. (1934
ed.), § 744c.
All such legislation, state and federal, proceeds upon
the view that free labor, properly compensated, cannot
compete successfully with the enforced and unpaid or
underpaid convict labor of the prison. A state basing
its legislation upon that conception has the right and
power, so far as the federal Constitution is concerned,
by non-discriminating legislation, to preserve its policy

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 US.

from impairment or defeat, by any means appropriate to
the end and not inconsistent with that instrument.! The
proposition is not contested that the Ohio statute would
be unassailable if made to take effect after a sale in the
original package. And the statute as it now reads is
equally unassailable, since Congress has provided that
the particular subjects of interstate commerce here involved "shall be governed by a rule which divests them
of that character at an earlier period of time than would
otherwise be the case," In re Rahrer, supra, p. 562, namely,
upon arrival and delivery.
If the power of Congress to remove the impediment to
state control presented by the unbroken-package doetrine be limited in any way (a question which we do not
now find it necessary to consider), it is clear that the
removal of that impediment in the case of prison-made
goods must be upheld for reasons akin to those which
moved this court to sustain the validity of the Wilson
Act. Even without such action by Congress the unbroken-package doctrine, as applied to interstate commerce, has come to be regarded, generally at least, as more
artificial than sound. Indeed, in its relation to that
commerce, it was definitely rejected in Sonneborn Bros.
v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506, 508-509, as affording no
immunity from state taxation. "The interstate transportation," this court there concluded, "was at an end,
and whether in the original, package or not, a state tax
upon the oil as property or upon its 'sale in the State, if
the state law levied the same tax on all oil or all sales
of it, without regard to origin, would be neither a regulation nor a burden of the interstate commerce of which
this oil had been the subject."
Whether that view of the doctrine as applied to state
taxation should now be given a more general application,
the Hawes-Cooper Act, being determinative of the case
now under review, makes it unnecessary for us to decide.

MATSON NAV. CO. v. STATE BOARD.
431

441

Syllabus.

3. That the Hawes-Cooper Act does not constitute a
delegation of Congressional power to the states is made
clear by In re Rahrer, supra, pp. 560-561, and by what
we have already said under subdivision 2.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREYand MR. JusTIc7 STONE concur in the result.

NOLDS,

MATSON NAVIGATION CO. ET AL. v. STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION OF CALIFQRNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 346.

Argued January 17, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

1. The commerce clause does not prevent a State from imposing
upon her corporations, for the privilege of exercising their corporate franchises within the State, a tax measured on the net
income justly attributable to their business done within the State,
though part of the income so attributable be from interstate and
foreign commerce. P. 443.
2. A tax thus laid held consistent with due process. Hans Rees'
Sons v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123, distinguished. P. 444.
3. A state tax on the privilege of exercising corporate franchises
within the State, measured at a uniform rate on net income attributable to business within the State, does not discriminate unconstitutionally against corporations deriving such income from
interstate and foreign as well as from intrastate business because
other corporations, having no interstate business, are taxed only
on intrastate income, or because foreign corporations engaged in
interstate and foreign business exclusively are exempt from the
tax. P; 445.
4. A foreign corporation whose sole business in a State is interstate
and foreign commerce, cannot be subjected to a privilege tax.
P. 446.
5. A discrimination i state taxation required by the commerce
clause cannot be held to violate the equal protection clause of the
Fourteent h Amendment. P. 446.
3 Cal. (2d) 1; 43 P. (2d) 805, affirmed.

