APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
Argument for Petitioner.

383

We granted certiorari limited to the question of the
right of respondent to bring this suit without prior demand upon, or refusal by, the Comptroller of the Currency or the receiver, or both.
As the case turns on its exceptional facts and suit has
been brought by the receiver, and the course of procedure
in the interest of economical and efficient administration is
left to be determined by the trial court in the exercise of
a sound discretion, the decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
WINE RAILWAY APPLIANCE CO. v. ENTERPRISE
RAILWAY EQUIPMENT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 356. Argued January 16, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
Section 4900 R. S., does not mean that a patentee who has not made
the patented article may not recover for infringements committed
before he gave actual notice of his patent to the infringer. Pp. 392,
397.

77 F. (2d) 159, reversed.

296 U. S. 560, to review a decree reducing
an accounting for infringement of a paton
recovery
the
ent. See also 25 F. (2d) 236.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Gilbert P. Ritter for petitioner.
It is especially to be observed that § 4900 R. S., provides
for the giving of two notices, one to the public and the
other to an infringer. The notice to the public, since it
is required to be given by marking a tangible patented
article, can only be given by a manufacturing patentee.
The notice to an infringer is required to be given only in
the event of a failure to rirk the patented article. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioner.

297 U. S.

two notices are related; the necessity of giving the actual
notice to an infringer is dependent upon the failure to
mark an article which has been made, that is to say, the
necessity of giving it arises only upon a failure to notify
the public that a patented article which has been made or
vended is patented. This failure, therefore, is not a failure to manufacture but a failure, in case of manufacture,
to give notice to the public by marking the article
"patented," that is, a failure "to mark."
The statute does not require a non-manufacturing
patentee to give any notice whatsoever to the public as
to the existence of his patent, and as the giving of notice
to an infringer is only required of him who fails to comply
with the provisions of the statute respecting notice to the
public, the statute does not require a non-manufacturing
patentee to give notice to an infringer.
The purpose is to prevent an unwitting infringement
by a member of the public who, seeing an article bearing
no mark indicating that it is patented, proceeds to make
other specimens of it. Robinson on Patents, Vol. III,
§ 902.
Letters patent recorded under R. S., § 4883, in the
Patent Office, are "a record which is notice to all the
world"; Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 50; "all persons are bound to take notice of their contents." Boyden
v. Burke, 14 How. 575, 582.
The policy of Congress in dealing with patents has
been not to require the manufacture of patented articles.
Section 4900 R. S., should be interpreted in harmony with
that policy. ContinentalPaperBag Co. v. EasternPaper
Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405, 429.
The right to recover damages for infringement is given
by §§ 4919 and 4921, R. S. Being in derogation of that
right, § 4900 R. S., should be strictly construed; and the
phrase "failing to mark," appearing in the penalty clause,

APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
387

389

Argument for Petitioner.

should not be interpreted as if it read "failing so to manufacture and mark."
Many patentees cannot lawfully manufacture articles
patented to them without first obtaining a license under
some patent owned by another.
Section 4900 R. S. and § 13 of the Patent Act of 1861,
are identical in purpose and meaning.
The legislative history of § 4900 R. S., shows that Congress intended the existing law to iemain unchanged in
substance.
The decision of the court below is in apparent conflict with the interpretation placed on § 4900 R. S. by
this Court; there is a diversity of opinion respecting the
interpretation. Dunlap v. Schofield, 152 U. S. 244, 247248; Campbell v. Mayor, 81 Fed. 182; Ewart v. Baldwin
Co., 91 Fed. 262; Wagner v. Corn Products Refining Co.,
28 F. (2d) 617; Van Meter v. United States, 37 F. (2d)
111, 113; Olsson v. United States, 72 Ct. Cls. 72, 103.
It has been decided in the following cases that § 4900
R. S. does not apply to a process patent, since the process
is not susceptible of marking: Carnegie Steel Co. v. U. S.
Mitis Co., 90 Fed. 829, affirming 89 Fed. 206; U. S. Mitis
Co. v. Midvale Steel Co., 135 Fed. 103; Wagner v. Corn
Products Refining Co., 28 F. (2d) 617. Cf. Parker Rust
Proof Co. v. Ford Motor Co., 23 F. (2d) 502, and Churchward InternationalSteel Co. v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 262
Fed. 438, which did not involve process claims.
The following cases have been found holding that the
Section applies to all patentees regardless of whether the
patented articles have ever been made or sold under the
parent: Churchward International Steel Co. v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 262 Fed. 438; Son v. Pressed Steel Car
Co., 21 F. (2d) 528; Van Meter v. United States, 47 F.
(2d) 192; Flat Slab Patents Co. v. Northwestern Glass
Co., 281 Fed. 51.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

297 U. S,

Mr. M. K. Hobbs, with whom Mr. George I. Haight was
on the brief, for respondent.
The interpretation of the petitioner would mean that
one who makes, sells, and gives to the public the benefit
of his invention before the expiration of the seventeen
years, is placed at a disadvantage in protecting his patent
over one who maintains merely a paper patent. Congress
did not intend any such fantastic result. See Flat Slab
Patents Co. v. Northwestern Glass Co., 281 Fed. 51.
Every patent owner or licensee can give individual notice of infringement, one of the alternative methods provided, without trouble or expense.
If an article is marked, the accused infringer has notice
as a member of the public. If an article is not or cannot be marked because not in existence, then special
notice is required to the defendant.
Copying an article marked patented is of itself such
notice. But mere knowledge of the existence of a patent
is not notice of infringement.
The alternative method of notice provided in the statute and recognized by this Court in Dunl v. Schofield,
152 U. S. 244, makes an entirely consonant and harmonious policy of the law.
The purpose of the statute is not that notice may be
given of the issuance and existence of a patent, but to
prevent innocent infringement; and this is accomplished
in two ways,-by marking the article if made, for all to
see; or by the sending of an accusing notice.
The legislative history of the section shows that Congress changed prior statutes respecting marking and
notice, and intended to make the change it wrought. See
Churchward International Steel Co. v. Bethlehem Steel
Co., 262 Fed. 438; Flat Slab Patents Co. v. Northwestern
Glass Co., 281 Fed. 51.
If the present edition of the statute meant that giving
notice is imposed only on those who make or sell, there

APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
387

391

Opinion of the Court.

would have been no necessity for changing the earlier
enactments of the statute.
The Act of August 29, 1842, required all patentees
who made and vended to mark the patented articles
and carried a penalty for not so doing. That provision
made no reference to notice of infringement. This Act
was followed by the Act of March 2, 1861, which contained the same requirement in respect to the marking of
articles made or vended by any person. The 1861 Act
made the first important change by denying the right to
damages unless notice was given; but the Act was still
limited to the patentees who made and vended. Then
came the Act of July 8, 1870, now § 4900 R. S., which
extended the provision requiring marking and notice to
all patentees, as well as to persons who made and vended,
thus making the second important change over the original enactment of 1842.
The decision below is in harmony with Dunlap v. Schofield, 152 U. S. 244, and with the decision of each Circuit
Court of Appeals which has passed upon the question.
Flat Slab Patents Co. v. Northwestern Glass Co., 281
Fed. 51; Flat Slab Patents Co. v. Turner, 285 Fed. 257;
American Caramel Co. v. Mills, 162 Fed. 147; Van Meter
v. United States, 47 F. (2d) 192; Enterprise Railway
Equipment Co. v. Wine Railway Appliance Co., 77 F.
(2d) 159; Son v. Pressed Steel Car Co., 21 F. (2d) 528;
Churchward International Steel Co. v. Bethlehem Steel
Co., 262 Fed. 438.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1922, respondent, Equipment Company, sued the petitioner for infringing certain patents. April 25, 1923,
petitioner, Appliance Company, by counterclaim, charged
that respondent had infringed its patents and asked for
damages. The District Court dismissed both bill and
counterclaim. The Circuit Couit of Appeals held one of

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

petitioner's patents valid and infringed and remanded the
cause for an accounting.
The master reported (June 17, 1932) that profits
amounting to $18,002.83 had been realized on the infringing device and recommended judgment for that sum. Of
this total he attributed $5,490.77 to the period preceding
the filing of the counterclaim and $12,512.06 to the subsequent one. The District Court approved; but the Circuit
Court of Appeals, after citing many conflicting opinions by
other Federal Courts, held no recovery could be had for
anything done prior to the counterclaim. This ruling is
challenged. To determine the issue, we must construe
§ 4900 R. S.; U. S. C., Title 35, § 49, which provides"It shall be the duty of all patentees, and their assigns
and legal representatives, and of all persons making or
vending any patented article for or under them, to give
sufficient notice to the public that the same is patented;
either by fixing thereon the word 'patented,' together with
the day and year the patent was granted; or when, from
the character of the article, this can not be done, by fixing
to it, or to the package wherein one or more of them is
inclosed, a label containing the like notice; and in any suit
for infringement, by the party failing so to mark, no damages shall be recovered by the plaintiff, except on proof
that the defendant was duly notified of the infringement,
and continued, after such notice, to make, use, or vend
the article so patented."
This section derives verbatim from § 38 of "An Act to
revise, consolidate, and amend the Statutes relating to
Patents and Copyrights," approved July 8, 1870, c. 230,
16 Stat. 198, 203, and has remained in force without
change, presently important.'
1

The Act of February 7, 1927, c. 67, 44 Stat. 1058, amended 4900

R. S. by inserting "Provided, however, That with respect to any
patent issued prior to April 1, 1927, it shall be sufficient to give such
notice in the form following, viz: 'Patented,' together with the day
and year the patent was granted" immediately after the words "like
notice" and before "and in any suit."

APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
387

Opinion of the Court.

Section 4901, R. S.; U. S. C., Title 35, § 50,2 penalizes
the use of unauthorized marks upon manufactured articles "for the purpose of deceiving the public." Sections
4919 and 4921, R. S.; U. S. C., Title 35, §§ 67 and 70,
permit recovery of damages for infringement of any
patent.
The parties agree that issuance of a patent and recordation in the Patent Office constitute notice to the world
of its existence. Boyden v. Burke, 14 How. 575, 582;
Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 50.
Neither petitioner nor another with its consent has
ever manufactured or vended an article under the infringed patent. No actual notice of infringement was
given respondent prior to the counterclaim.
Counsel for petitioner affirm that under § 4900, whenever a patented article is made or vended by one of those
therein specified it becomes his duty to give sufficient
notice to the public "that the same is patented" either by
placing thereon or upon the label the word "Patented."
Also, that, as penalty for failure therein, the defaulter is
'Section 4901, R. S.; U. S. C., Title 35, § 50. "Every person who,
in any manner, marks upon anything made, used, or sold by him for
which he has not obtained a patent, the name or any imitation of the

name of any person who has obtained a patent therefor without the
consent of such patentee, or his assigns or legal representative; or
"Who, in any manner, marks upon or affixes to any such patented
article the word 'patent' or 'patentee,' or the words 'letters-patent,'
or any word of like import, with intent to imitate or counterfeit the
mark or device of the patentee, without having the license or consent

of such patentee or his assigns or legal representatives; or
"Who, in any manner, marks upon or affixes to any unpatented
article the word 'patent,' or any word importing that the same is
patented, for rae purpose of deceiving the public, shall be liable,
for every such offense, to a penalty of not less than one hundred
dollars with costs; one-half of said penalty to the person who shall
sue for the same, and the other to the use of the United States, to
be recovered by suit in any district court of the United States within
whose jurisdictiQn such offense may have been committed."

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

deprived of the right to.recover damages for infringement,
except upon proof that after notice, the defendant continued to make, use or vend. This construction, it is said,
correctly we think, gives effect to every word in the
section and carries out the legislative purpose.
Counsel for respondent submitSection 4900 requires a patentee or patent owner,
whether or not he makes or vends, to give notice in one
of the two alternative methods, (marking the article,
or giving actual notice to the defendant) as therein
specified. By plain language, the duty to give notice of
infringement is imposed without limitation upon "all
patentees and their assigns and legal representatives."
Then the statute proceeds and imposes this upon "all
persons making or vending any patented article for or
under them." The duty to give notice is required not
only of patentejes and their assigns and legal representatives, but also the duty is imposed upon all persons
making or vending under them. The purpose is not that
notice may be given of the issuance and existence of a
patent, but to prevent innocent infringement; and this
is accomplished in two ways-by marking the article,
if made, for all to see; or by sending an accusing notice.
The section clearly does say that the three classes of
persons named therein, (1) patentees, (2) assigns and
legal representatives, and (3) all persons making or
vending patented articles for or under them, must either
mark the article of the patent in accordance with the
statute or give notice to the accused infringer. Alternative methods of giving notice are provided by the statute;
so no hardship is worked upon him who does not mike
and sell and no lack -of harmony with other provisions
of the patent laws exists. If the present edition of the
statute means that giving notice is imposed only on those
who make or sell, there would have been no necessity for
changing the earlier enactments of the statute. The

APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
387

395

Opinion of the Court.

whole matter could have been disposed of by saying "all
persons who make or vend patented articles."
Obviously, but for § 4900, a patentee might recover for
all damages suffered through infringement without giving
prior acttial notice to the infringer. That section subtracts something and creates an exception.
If respondent's position is correct, process patents and
patents under which nothing has been manufactured
may be secretly infringed with impunity, notwithstanding injury to owners guilty of no neglect. Only plain
language could convince us of such an intent.
The idea of a tangible article proclaiming its own character runs through this and related provisions. Two
kinds of notice are specified-one to the public by a
visible mark, another by actual advice to the infringer.
The second becomes necessary only when the first has
not been given; and the first can only be given in connection with some fabricated article. Penalty for failure
implies opportunity to perform.
If the word "patentees" is not qualified by "making or
vending any patented article," the section would seem
to impose on such persons a duty to the public impossible of performance when no article is made or vended
by them. Also, if these words do not qualify patentees,
then the words "same" and "thereon," are not easily
understood.
Section 5, Act of August 29th, 1842, c. 263, 5 Stat. 544,
declared, that it shall be an offense to place the word
"patent" o; "letters-patent" on any unpatented article
with intent to deceive the public and prescribes a penalty
recoverable by action.
"Sec. 6 ....

That all patentees and assignees of pat-

ents hereafter granted, are hereby required to stamp, engrave, or cause to be stamped or engraved, on each article
vended, or offered for sale, the date of the patent; and
if any person or persons, patentees or assignees, shall

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court,

297 U.S.

neglect to do so, he, she, or they, shall be liable to the
same penalty, to be recovered and disposed of in the
manner specified in the foregoing fifth section of this
act."

The Act of March 2, 1861, c. 88, 12 Stat. 249, provided"Sec. 13. . . That in all cases where an article is made
or vended by any person under the protection of letterspatent, it shall be the duty of such person to give sufficient notice to the public that said article is so patented,
either by fixing thereon the word patented, together
with the day and year the patent was granted; or when,
fromh the character of the article- patented, that may be
impracticable, by -enveloping one or more of the said
articles, and affixing a label to the package or otherwise
attaching thereto a label on which the notice, with the
date, is printed; on failure of which, in any suit for the
infringement of letters-patent by the party failing so
to mark the article the right to which is infringed upon,
no damage shall be recovered by the plaintiff, except on
proof that the defendant was duly notified of the infringement, and continued after such notice to make or
vend the article patented."
Section 38 of the Act of July 8, 1870, supra, became
§ 4900, R. S. Section 39-now § 4901, R. S.-is in the
margin, ante, p. 393.
By the Act of 1842 (the earliest here important) "all
patentees and assignees of patents" were required to mark
"each article vended or offered for sale" and-defaulters
were subjected to a money penalty. The Act of 1861
directed that "in all cases where an article is made or
vended by any person under the protection of letterspatent, it shall be the duty of such person to give sufficient
notice to the public that said article is so patented, etc."
It penalized default by iaking away the right to recover
damages, except, etc. The Act of 1870, prepared by the

APPLIANCE CO. v. EQUIPMENT CO.
387

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioners to Revise the Statutes (Act June 27, 1866,
14 Stat. 74)3 made it the duty of "all patentees, and their
assigns and legal representatives,and of all persons making
or vending any patented article for or under them, to give
sufficient notice to the public that the same is patented,"
etc. and penalized default as did the Act of 1861.
All these acts reveal the purpose to require that marks
be put on patented articles for the information of the
public. They undertook to specify those charged with
the duty to attach such marks. In this regard, the meaning of the Act of 1861 is not open to question. The different language found in the Act of 1870 was intended,
we think, to delimit the term "a person under the protection of letters 15aten.Wt_'-to describe the members of tlhe
class more" definitel,. and -iot-to imlose a new and different burden upon non-producing patentees. We find
nothing adequate to support the notion that such patentees were deprived of the right theretofore existing to
claim damages from an infringer unless anc until- he
could be run down and served with actual notice.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously sustainedthe respondent's position, because of the different language found in the Act of 1870. It said:
"The earlier statute provided 'that in all cases where
an article is made or vended by any person under the
protection of letters-patent, it shall be the duty of such
person to give sufficient notice to the public that said
article is patented, . . .' (12 Stat. 249.) That statute
required any person making or vending an article under
the protection of letters-patent to give the notice,
whereas the present one requires that notice be given by
all patentees and their assigns and legal representatives,
and also, by all persons making or vending the patented
"Congressional Globe, Vol. 43, Part 5, pp. 2679--2684
Congressional Globe, Vol. 43, Part 5, pp. 2679-2680.
Congressional Globe, Vol. 43, Part 5, p. 2680.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

article. Thus under the earlier statute a patentee who
did not make or vend the article was not required to
give the notice, but under the present statute the patentee,-his assigns and legal representatives must give it,
whether they do or do not make or vend the article.
This is the only difference between the two statutes, and
in our opinion the amendment to the old statute as
embodied in the new requires the patentee or his assignee
who does not make or vend the article to give notice of
the patent and limits the recovery for infringement thereof to damages sustained thereafter."
Under the interpretation which we accept, § 4900, R. S.,
provides protection against deception by unmarked patented articles, and requires nothing unreasonable of patentees. By admission, the Act of 1861 did not require
a patentee who did not produce to give actual notice to
an infringer before damages could be recovered; andthere is nothing in the language or history of the Act of
1870 sufficient to indicate an intent to alter his position
in this regard. This conclusion is in harmony with the
language of Dunlap v. Schofield, 152 U. S. 244, 247.
The challenged judgment must be reversed. . The
judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. LUNSFORD,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF GEORGIA.

No. 399.

Submitted February 10, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

The absolute duty laid on carriers by the Boiler Inspection Act to keep
"all parts and appurtenances" of their locomotives in proper condition does not extend to safety devices which do not increase the
peril and which are placed on locomotives by the carrier for experimental purposes. P. 401.
50 Ga. App. 829; 179 S. R_ 571, reversed.

