WASHINGTON v. OREGON.

517

Syllabus.

500

there was evidence of a conspiracy in restraint of trade
and commerce, and the complaint having been framed
on that theory and no other, the suit should have been
dismissed as to each of the defendants.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals reversing the
judgment of the District Court is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
No. 11, original.

Argued February 10, 11, 1936.-Decided March 2,
1936.

1. This Court will not exercise its jurisdiction to control the conduct
of one State at the suit of another, unless the invasion of right
complained of be of serious magnitude and proved by clear and
convincing evidence. P. 522.
2. The mere fact that a dam diverting water for irrigation from a
non-navigable stream takes the entire surface flow in times of
scarcity gives to an adjacent State lower on' the stream no equity
to an injunction against the State in which the dam is operated,
where water rights in both States are based on appropriation for
beneficial uses and where an injunction would wreak great injury
upon farmers in the tpper State who are dependent upon the
diversion and would probably not increase the flow in the lower
State because of physical condition of the stream-bed. P. 522.
3. The evidence fails to prove the contention that water diverted
from the Walla Walla River and used for irrigation in Oregon, is
used wastefully, to the injury of irrigators in Washington; or the
clontention that the pumping of water in Oregon and its use in
irrigating the lands from which it is pumped, materially lessens the
quantity of water otherwise available for use in Washington.
P. 523.
4. The right of land owners to make reasonable use of percolating
water by pumping from wells and applying it to the surface, considered and upheld. P. 525.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

5. Oregon and Washington are entitled to their equitable proportions of the water of the Walla Walla, on the basis of priority of
appropriations. P. 526.
6. A water priority once acquired, or put in course of acquisition by
the posting of a notice, may be lost by abandonment. P. 527.
7. In determining equitable apportionment between States of the
waters of a common stream, a priority allotted in one of the
States by an adjudication to which the other State and its appropriators were not parties, is not binding on them and will not be
counted if, as to them, the claimant of such priority has forfeited
his right, by laches, abandonment or other inequitable conduct.
P. 528.

Bill Dismissed.

The object of this original suit was to obtain an apportionment between the two States of the waters of the
Walla Walla River and tributaries, supported by an injunction. The case was heard on exceptions to the report
of the Special Master, William W. Ray, Esquire, of Utah,
to whom it had been referred.
Mr. George G. Hannan, Assistant Attorney General of
Washington, with whom Mr. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney
General, and Mr. Fred J. Cunningham were on the brief,
for complainant.
Messrs. Charles Z. Randall and George T. Cochran,
with whom Mr. L H. Van Winkle, Attorney General of
Oregon, and Messrs. James A. Fee and Colon R. Eberhard were on the brief, for defendant.
MR. JUsTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
With leave of court (283 U. S. 801), the Stats of Washington filed a bill of complaint on July 22, 1931, in which
it charged that the State of Oregon was wrongfully diverting the waters of the Walla Walla River to the prejudice of inhabitants of Washington, and prayed an
adjudication apportioning the interests of the two states
in the river and in tributary streams and restraining any

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
517

Opinion of the Court.

use ot diversion of the waters found to be unlawful. To
this complaint Oregon filed an answer containing denials
and defenses, to which Washington replied. On February
20, 1933, this court appointed a Special Master with authority to take evidence and with directions to make
findings of fact and conclusions of law to be submitted
288
to the court with recommendations for a decree.
U. S. 592. The case is now here upon exceptions filed
by Washington to the Master's report, which finds the
facts fully and advises the dismissal of the bill.
The Walla Walla River, a non-navigable stream, rises
in the Blue Mountains of northeastern Oregon. For
about four miles above the City of Milton it flows through
a narrow canyon, the waters for that reach being inaccessible for purposes of irrigation. At Milton the river
broadens out in a delta formation. The first division in
this formation is at Red Bridge, near the city, where the
river breaks into two branches. One, the Tum-a-lum, as
it is known in Oregon, or the main Walla Walla, as it is
known in Washington, flows through cobble rocks over
great depths of gravel till it reaches the McCoy Bridge.
There, at the margin of an alluvial fan, springs rise from
below the surface, and feed the flow anew. .Thus reinforced, the stream moves northwesterly to the line between the two states, and again northwesterly for about
thirty miles in Washington to its confluence with the
Columbia River. A second branch of the river, starting
at the Red Bridge, is known as the Little Walla Walla,
which divides after a mile into the Crocket and the
Ford. Prongs of the Crockdt which contribute little, if
any, water during the irrigation season, Combine with another stream after crossing the state line, a.nd discharge
into the main river above the intake of the canal of the
Gardena project. Another prong of the Crocket comes
together with the Ford and joins the main river in Washington below the intake of the canal. Still another tribu-

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

tary, known as the Mill Creek, rises in the Blue Mountains, and flows far to the east of the courses just
described. After breaking up into other creeks (the,
Yellowhawk, the Garrison and others), it joins the main
stream of the Walla Walla within the state of Washington. No claimais made by the complainant that the
waters of Mill Creek have been illegally diverted. Indeed, the fact appears to be that the inhabitants of Washington use the waters of that creek to the exclusion of
any use thereof by the inhabitants of Oregon. The claim
of wrongdoing has its centre in the use of the waters of
the Walla Walla arising above the Red Bridge.
The Walla Walla Basin has a semi-arid climate with
warm dry summers and cold wet winters. The streams
contributing to the river are supplied in the main from
the snows of the Blue Mountains. Upon the coming of
spring, these snows are melted, and the river at that
season attains its highest flow. Even then there are
variations, not only from month to month, but from
day to day. With the advance of summer, the flow diminishes greatly, particularly in the latter part of July
and August. In such a climate agriculture cannot go
on successfully without the aid of irrigation. A sporadic
supply of water will not meet the farmer's needs. "To
be available in a practical sense the supply must be fairly
continuous and dependable." Wyoming v. Colorado, 259
U. S. 419, 471. A fair division of the water is thus vital
to the prosperity of this agricultural community, and
even to its life, for agricultural in the main it is. True,
there are cities also within the limits of the watershed,
Walla Walla in Washington with a population of 15,976;
Milton and Freewater in Oregon with a combined population of 2,308. Even so, the Welfare of the cities is
closely bound up with that of the area about them.
Indeed, there has been a unity of growth in the development of the whole community, a development quite inde-

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
517

Opinion of the Court.

pendent of the dividing line between the states. As
already pointed out, farmers in Washington have had the
benefit of Mill Creek, which takes its rise in Oregon.
Complainant and .defendant have stipulated that - for
the purposes of this case the individual rights of the

respective land owners and water owners concerned in
both.states are governed by the doctrine of prior appropriation. Wyoming v. Colorado, supra. The Washington court made a decree in September, 1928, adjudging
the priorities of appropriators in Washington. The Oregon court made one in August, 1912, adjudging the
priorities of appropriators in Oregon. Neither state was
a party to the judicial proceedings in the other. The
stream supply has been sufficient through the aid of the
Mill Creek to satisfy rights with priorities up to 1891
under each of the decrees. What Washingtion complains
of chiefly is the deficiency in the supply available for
the satisfaction of alleged priorities up to 1892. Particularly it complains of the deficiency of the supply for the
Gardena Farms District. By the decree of September,
1928, the District was adjudged the holder of a water
right with an 1892 priority for the irrigation of 7,000
acres upon specified conditions. This priority, though
recognized in Washington, is contbsted by Oregon. The
project affected by that award was started in 1892 by
the Walla Walla Irrigation Company. A canal to connect with the Walla Walla River was to carry water
for -irrigation to a tract known as the Gardena District,
twelve miles or more away. Work on the canal was slow
and intermittent, chiefly for lack of funds. About 1903
the engineers discovered that the best land in the District
could not be irrigated at all unless the plans were greatly
changed. Thereupon a new system of construction was
adopted following a different route. Not till 1904 or
later was water in the canal applied beneficially to any
acreage in Washington except in trifling quantities. Long

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

before that time, beginning in 1880 or earlier and continuously thereafter, irrigators in Oregon had been appropriating to themselves the waters of the river above
the Red Bridge.
We turn at this point to a consideration of the acts of
appropriation, their nature and effect, in an endeavor to
ascertain whether they were legitimate or wrongful. For
more than fifty years before the filing of this suit irrigators in Oregon at seasons of shortage maintained crude
or temporary dams across the Walla Walla River close
to the Red Bridge. During the low water period the effect of the dam was to turn the waters of the river away
from the channel of the Tum-a-lum into the channel of
the Little Walla Walla, where they were used for agricultural, domestic and kindred purposes. A small quantity of water necessary to supply the right of the East
Side Dlitch has been "permitted to go by the dam without
interference. With that exception, which is negligible, all
the waters have been diverted without. interruption and
without protest for more than fifty years. Was this a
wrong to Washington?
"Before this court can be moved to exercise its extraordinary power under the Constitution to control the
conduct of one State at the suit of another, the threatened
invasion of rights must be of serious magnitude and it
must be established by clear and convincing evidence."
New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 309; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365, 374; Connecticut v.
Massachusetts, 282 U. S. 660, 669; Missouri v. Illinois,
200 U. S. 496, 521. The Master has found: "There is
no satisfactory proof that to turn down water past the
Red Bridge in Oregon during the period of water shortage
would be materially more advantageous to Washington
users than to permit such water to be applied to surface
irrigation in Oregon." This is so because of the nature
of the channel of the Tum-a-lum River. During the pe-

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
517

Opinion of the Court.

riod of water shortage, only a small quantity of water
would go by if the dams should be removed. There is
evidence that this quantity, small at the beginning, would
be quickly absorbed and lost in the deep gravel beneath
the channel. Experiments have proved that it would
not reach the McCoy Bridge, only a few miles down the
stream. As to this the Master finds: "The channel of
the Tum-a-lum River between the Nursery Bridge
[which is close to the Red Bridge] and the McCoy
Bridge [farther down] is an extremely wasteful channel.
Water turned past the Red Bridge sinks and becomes
part of the underground waters." "To limit the long
established use in Oregon would materially injure Oregon
users without a compensating benefit to Washington
users." These findings are well supported by the evidence. Complainant has brought forward no adequate
reason for disturbing them. Connecticut v. Massachusetts, supra, at p. 669. Accepting them, as we do, we accept also the conclusion to which they point with inescapable directness. To restrain the diversion at the bridge
would bring distress and even ruin to a long established
settlement of tillers of the soil for no other or better purpose than to vindicate a barren right. This is not the
high equity that moves the conscience of the court in
giving judgment between states. North Dakota v. Minnesota, supra; Connecticut v. Massachusetts, supra;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 109. Far from being
that, it is rather "the summum jus of power." Mutual
Life Insurance Co. v. Johnson, 293 U. S. 335, 339. In
default of reasons for removal more urgent and compelling, the tillers of the soil will be left where they have
settled. Cf. Hough v. Porter, 51 Ore. 318, 415; 95 Pac.
732; 98 Pac. 1083; 102 Pac. 728; Matheson v. Ward, 24
Wash. 407, 411; 64 Pac. 520.
The question must still be met whether the waters
when diverted are misapplied or wasted with ensuing loss

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

to the complainant. As to this the findings are explicit,
and they are supported by the evidence. "The use of
water by the irrigators within the State of Oregon is not
unduly wasteful but is, under the circumstances, a reasonable, beneficial and necessary use." Nor does the evidence sustain the allegation of the bill that through the
diversion of the stream and the application of the water
to new irrigated lands the underground water supply has
been so shifted to the west that it does not return to the
river at such a point as to be usable by the inhabitants of
Washington. As to this and other charges of damage or
wrongdoing, the burden of proof falls heavily on complainant, more heavily, we have held, than in a suit for
an injunction where states are not involved. North Dakota v. Minnesota,.supra; Connecticut v. Massachusetts,
supra. The burden has not been borne. On the contrary, the Master finds on the basis of supporting evidence
that "a substantial part of the water applied to irrigatioi in Oregon . . . goes into the underground water supply," and r.eturns to the river. Indeed, he goes farther
and concludes that "the use of water for irrigation within
the State of Oregon is beneficial to irrigators within the
State of Washington," by feeding the many springs that
supply the main river later in its course. Whether this
is so or not, certain at least it is that the iijury, if there
is any, does not appear "by clear and convincing evid6nce" to be one "of serious magnitude." Connecticut v.
Massachusetts, supra; New York v. New Jersey, supra.
Between the high contending parties whose interests are
involved, nothing less will set in motion the restraining
power of the court.
Next to be considered is the practice of the defendant's
farmers in sinking wells upon their farms. This is stated
in the findings. "In addition to the surface water available for use within the State of Oregon, the farmers have
tapped the subsurface water* supply by sinking about

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
517

Opinion of the Court.

three hundred wells, from which wells they pump each
year approximately 9,000 acre feet of water. The water
so pumped is used upon the lands where the several
wells are located." A different question would be here
'if I the water when extracted had been sold or otherwise
employed for use on distant lands. Such use is unlawful according to the rule in many courts (Snake Creek
Mining & Tunnel Co. v. Midway IrrigationCo., 260 U. S.
596, aff'g 271 Fed. 157; Forbell v. New York City,
164 N. Y. 522; 58 N. E. 644; People v. New York Carbonic Acid Gas Co., 196 N. Y. 421; 90 N. E. 441; Bassett
v. Salisbury Mfg. Co., 43 N.-H. 569; Patrick v. Smith, 75
Wash. 407; 134 Pac. 1076), though the decisions are not
uniform. Acton v. Blundell, 12 M. & W. 324.1 Again,
a different question would be here if the waters, though
subterranean, followed a defined channel, instead of percolating vagrantly through rocks and sand and gravel.
Snake Creek Mining & Tunnel Co. v. Midway Irrigation
Co., supra; Boyce v. Cupper, 37 Ore. 256, 260; 61 Pac.
642; Hayes v. Adams, 109 Ore. 51, 57, 58; 218 Pac. 933;
Meyer v. Tacoma Light & Water Co., 8 Wash. 144; 35
Pac. 601; Home-v. Utah Oil Refining Co., 59 Utah 279;
202 Pac. 815; Clinchfield Coal Corp. v. Compton, 148 Va.
437; 139 S. E. 308. Here the water level is on such a
slope that, without any pumping, gravity would take the
water away from the channel of any stream, either above
the surface or below it. In such circumstances the right
to pump in reasonable quantities for the beneficial enjoyment of the overlying land is allowed even by those
courts that have placed the narrowest restrictions on
the use of percolating waters. Maricopa County District
v. Southwest Cotton Co., 39 Ariz. 65, 86, 90, 97, 100;
4 P. (2d) 369; Los Angeles v. Pomeroy, 124 Cal. 597; 57
Pac. 585; McClintock v. Hudson, 141 Cal. 275; 74 Pac.
' For a full collection of the cases see 55 A. L. R. 1390.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

849; Los Angeles v. Hunter, 156 Cal. 603; 105 Pac. 755.2
Cf. Ide v. United States, 263 U. S. 497, 506. In saying
this we do not intimate, either one way or the other, that
our conclusion would be different if the geological formation were other than it is. To all this we add that
once more as at other stages of the case complainant has
been unsuccessful in supplying evidence of damage. As
to that the Master finds: "There is no satisfactory proof
that the use of the water from these wells materially
lessens the quantity of water available for use within
the State of Washington." If any wrong has been done,
it is unsubstantial and uncertain.
What has been said avails without more to repel the
claim of the complainant that by the dams at the Red
Bridge or by, the use of wells or pumps, the Oregon irrigators are wrongfully diverting or depleting the waters of
the river to the prejudice of irrigators resident in Washington. To repel this claim of wrong, however, does not
dispose of the whole case. The question remains whether
the Oregon irrigators as a result of all their acts are taking
to themselves more than their equitable proportion of the
waters of the river, priority of appropriation being the
basis of division.- As to this too the Master has reported
in their favor. For the understanding of his ruling and its
satisfactory appraisal there is need to recur briefly to the
claim of the Gardena Farms.
Washington does not challenge the priorities adjudged
in the Oregon decree. Oregon does not challenge those
adjudged in the Washington, decree, except only the priority iallotted to the Gardena Farms. If that priority is
excluded, the Oregon irrigators have not exceeded their
equitable quota, at all events in any measure so substan'Many cases are collected in Kinney, Irrigation and Water Rights,
2d ed., vol. 2, pp. 2162-2167; Wiel, Water Rights in the Western
States, .3d ed., vol. 2, §§ 1042 et seq.

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
517

Opinion of the Court.

tial as to call for an injunction in a contest between states.
A notice posted in 1892 fixed the locus of the intake of the
canal for the Gardena project. This intake was far above
the point where the branches of the Little Walla Walla
unite with the main stream, if we except a few prongs of
insignificant extent. The projectors of the canal were thus
informed from the beginning that none of the waters of
the Tum-a-lum above the Red Bridge would be available
for the canal during the season of summer irrigation as
long as the Oregon farmers were permitted to maintain
the dams that diverted the waters of the Tum-a-lum
into the Little Walla Walla. The physical conditions
were notorious and were known to the canal company and,
in particular, to its president, the leader of the elnterprise.
What was done or omitted in keeping the appropriation
alive against the Oregon farmers in the vicinity of Milton
must be read and interpreted in the light of that knowledge and its resulting obligations.
A priority once acquired or put in course of acquisition
by the posting of a notice may be lost to the claimant by
abandonment or laches. There must be no waste in arid
lands of the "treasure" of a river. New Jersey v. New
York, 283 U. S. 336, 342. The essence of the doctrine
of prior appropriation is beneficial use, not a stale or
barren claim. Only diligence and good faith will keep
the privilege alive. Seaweardv. Pacific Livestock Co., 49
Ore. 157, 161; 88 Pac. 963; Re Rights of Waters of
Silvies River, 115 Ore. 27, 61; 237 Pac. 322; Re Water
Rights of Hood River, 114 Ore. 112, 131; 22 Pac. 1065;
State ex rel. Ham v. Supreme Court, 70 Wash. 442, 463;
126 Pac. 945.- When these are shown to be lacking, the
water right will fail, or fail to the extent that equity re'See Kinney Irrigation and Water Rights, 2d ed., vol. 2, pp. 1978,
1988, 2004, and Wiel, Water Rights in the Western States, 3d ed.,
vol. I, §§ 371, 567 et seq., collecting the decisions.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

quires. Such according to the Master has been the fate
of the Gardena filing. True a court in Washington determined in 1928 that the priority was to be recognized
as of 1892. The decree was of no force against Oregon
or Oregon appropriators not parties to the suit. UnitedStates v. Oregon, 295 U. S. 1, 12; Priest v. Las Vegas, 232
U. S. 604. As to them priority had lapsed, if the claimant
had forfeited it by inequitable conduct. The label of the
acts is unimportant, whether laches or estoppel or abandonment. What matters is their quality. Persistence in
such conduct may extinguish the equitable right. It may
bar an equitable remedy. Irrigators in another state, unaffected by the, decree, are at liberty to show the facts,
and upon the basis of that showing to fix their user of
the stream.
Laches and abandonment, chargeable to the Gardena
users, are found in the report. Not till 1930 was there
a claim in their behalf to the beneficial use of the waters
of the river arising above the bridge. Not till then was
such a claim advanced by Washington itself or by any of
its residents. Without a sign of challenge the Oregon
users were allowed to develop their little settlement in the
faith that their enjoyment of the waters was uncontested
by any one. During these many years of growth Gardena
Farms in particular evinced by many acts its recognition
and acceptance of the existing situation. These acts are
narrated carefully in the findings of the Master. There
is no need to repeat them here. Viewing them collectively he concludes that the Gardena Farms District has
never put the waters of the river arising above Red
Bridge to a beneficial use during the irrigation season;
that the intention to apply them to such a use was abandoned, if it ever existed, before the commencement of this
suit; and that for a period of nearly forty years there has
been recognition of the superior right of the Oregon appropriators. Here surely is not the diligence that equity

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
517

Opinion of the Court.

exacts of the suitor who invokes its distinctive jurisdiction.
We have dwelt upon the question of abandonment,
for it has been much considered in the report and in the
arguments of counsel. In so doing we have not meant
to hold that in the absence of abandonment there would
be an inequitable apportionment calling for relief by
injunction, unless indeed the flow of the stream should
unexpectedly increase. We are to bear in mind steadily
that the controversy is between states, and not between
private litigants, the burden and quantum of the proof
being governed accordingly. North Dakota v. Minnesota, supra. At present there would be no benefit to
Gardena, or none that has been proved, if the waters of
the Tum-a-lum were not obstructed by the dam. In all
likelihood they would be lost in the deep gravel of the
channel and would not reappear beyond until the shortage season had gone by. So also, there would be no benefit, or none that has been proved, if the use of the Little
Walla Walla were less than it has been. The chief points
of junction with the main river are below the intake of
the canal where Gardena is privileged to tap the waters
of the stream. No evidence brought to our notice by
either of the parties carries with it a suggestion that other
Oregon priorities would be cut down or displaced if the
Gardena priority were established to the full. We need
not go into the question more fully at this time.
The case comes down to this: the court is asked upon
uncertain evidence of prior right and still more uncertain
evidence of damage to destroy possessory interests enjoyed without challenge for over half a century. In such
circumstances an injunction would not issue if the contest
were between private parties, at odds about a boundary.
Still less will it issue here in a contest between states, a
contest to be dealt with in the large and ample way that
hlone becomes the dignity of thle litigants concerned.

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

2d7 U. S.

A decree will be entered confirming the report of the
Master, and dismissing the complaint upon the merits,
the costs and expenses of the suit to be divided between
the parties in accordance with the usual practice' Michigan v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 295, 319, 320; North Dakota
v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 583.
It is so ordered.
UNITED STATES v. RIZZO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 272. Argued January 9, 1936.-Decided March 9, 1936.
1. In a suit in admiralty to forfeit a cargo of alcohol for breach of
the customs and navigation laws, a claim of the United States for
internal revenue taxes on the alcohol, being a non-maritime claim,
cannot be set up in the libel; and to defer the presentation of such
claim until after the final decree adjudicating the right to the
property, is therefore not dilatory conduct. P. 533.
2. The basic tax imposed upon distilled spirits is not a penalty; it
is imposed irrespective of the legality of their origin; the lien
attaches when the spirits as such come into existence, continues
until the tax is paid, and is valid against all transferees, without
assessment, distraint, or other administrative proceedings. P. 533.
3. One who claims that alcohol, admittedly not imported, is not sub-ject to tax, must prove payment of the tax. P. 533.
4. The United States, by seeking a forfeiture of distilled Epirits for
violation of the customs and navigation laws, is not estopped,
through election of. remedies, from claiming the tax imposed upon
the spirits by the internal revenue laws. P. 534.
5. An agreement by the United States, in a proceeding by libel to
forfeit distilled spirits, for a judicial sale of the spirits "free and
clear of all claims of any kind or character," and transfer of all
existing liens from property to pr9ceeds, does not waive a lien
on the proceeds for internal revenue taxes. P. 534.
6. The Circuit Court of Appeals, sitting in admiralty in a proceeding to forfeit distilled spirits under the customs and navigation
laws, having sbld the spirits free of liens and transferred existing

