LINCOLN v. RICKETTS.
/,EOpinion of the Court.

CITY OF LINCOLN

v. RICKETTS, TRUSTEE
IN BANKRUPTCY.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

ErGHTH CIRCUIT.

N~o. 348.

Argued February 5, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

Section 64 (b) (7) of the Bankruptcy Act gives priority to "debts
owing to any person who by the laws of the States or the United
States is entitled to priority: Provided, That the term 'person'
as used in this sectioi shall include corporations, the United States
and the several States and Territories of the United States."
Held that a municipality is a "corporation" and hence a "person"
within the meaning of this provision if entitled to priority by the
law of its State. Pp. 374, 377.
77 F. (2d) 425, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 566, to review a judgment denying the City's claim of preference in a bankruptcy case.

Mr. Don W. Stewart, with whom Mr. Karl W. Kindleberger was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. R. A. Boehmer, with whom Mr. A. W. Field was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The City of Lincoln, Nebraska, a municipal corporation, sought priority in the payment of its claim against
the Lincoln Trust Company, bankrupt. The claim was
for $45,000, with interest. The City based its contention
on § 64b of the Bankruptcy Act, and also claimed that the
amounts in question had been placed in the custody of
the Trust Company as a trust fund. The District Court
held that the City was not within § 64b, and that the trust
had not been established except as to the sum of $628.63.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

The court directed that the remainder should be allowed
as a general claim. The Circuit Court of Appeals modified the judgment by disallowing altogether the claim of
priority, and, as modified, the judgment was affirmed.
77 F. (2d) 425. We granted certiorari, limited to the
question of the application of § 64b.
Section 64b is as follows:
"The debts to have priority, in advance of the payment
of dividends to creditors, and to be paid in full out of
bankrupt estates, and the order of payment shall be ...
(7) debts owing to any person who by the laws of the
States or the United States is entitled to priority: Provided, That the term 'pers6li' as used in this section shall
include corporations, the United States and the several
States and Territories of the United States."
The question is presented whether a municipal corporation is a "person" within the meaning of this section.
The word "person" is expressly stated to include corporations. A municipal corporation is a corporation in the
usual sensa of the term. Does the Bankruptcy Adt use
the term in a more limited sense?
Section la (6) provides that
"'corporations' shall mean all-bodies having any of
the powers and privileges of private corporations not
possessed by individuals or partnerships, and shall include
limited or other partnership associations organized under
laws making the capital subscribed alone responsible for
the debts of the association, joint stock companies, unincorporated companies and associations, and any business
conducted by a trustee, or trustees, wherein beneficial
interest or ownership is evidenced by certificate or other
written instrument."
We.find nothing in this definition which can be taken
to exclude municipal corporations. The words "having
any of the powers and privileges of private corporations
not possessed by individuals or partnerships" do not mean,

LINCOLN v. RICKETTS.
373

Opinion of the Court.

as the context plainly shows, that those described must
be "private corporations," but that the term embraces
those which have powers and privileges analogous to
those of private corporations and not possessed by individuals or partnerships. Municipal corporations have
such powers and privileges and thus fall within the definition of the term "corporations" as used in the Bankruptcy Act. The range of the definition shows the intention of the Congress to widen rather than to restrict the
term.
Other provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, by expressly
excluding municipal corporations in certain relations, indicate that they were intended to be included when, in
the absence of exception, the reference is to "corporations" generally, or to "persons,"-a term which, in the
section containing the general definition, is stated to
"include corporations, except where otherwise specified."
§ la (19). Thus § 4 provides:
"(a) Any person, except a municipal, railroad, insurance, banking corporation or a building and loan association, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Act as a
voluntary bankrupt.
"(b). Any natural person, except a wage earner or a
person engaged chiefly in farming or the tillage of the
soil, any unincorporated company, and any moneyed,
business, or commercial corporation, (except a municipal, railroad, insurance or banking corporation, or a
building and loan association) owing debts to the amount
of one thousand dollars or over, may be adjudged 'an
involuntary bankrupt upon default or an impartial trial,
and shall be subject to the provisions and entitled to the
benefits of this Act."
It is urged that in the provision of § 64a specifying
the priority of taxes owing by the bankrupt, a "municipality" is specifically named. The United States and the
States are also specifically named in that provision and

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

again in § 64b (7). But we think that the failure to
repeat the word "municipality" in § 64b (7) cannot be
regarded as controlling in view of the express inclusion
of "corporations" in that subdivision.
In construing the words of an act of Congress, we seek
the legislative intent. We give to the words their natural
significance unless that leads to an unreasonable result
plainly at variance with the evident purpose of the legislation. Ozawa v. United States, 260 U. S. 178, 194; Ohio
v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370. Counsel at the bar
could suggest no reason for allowing to corporations generally, or to the associations comprehended within the
term "corporations" as used in the Bankruptcy Act, the
priority given'by § 64b (7), when the state law provides
for it, and denying that priority in accordance with state
law to a municipal corporation. We can conceive of no
reasonable basis for such a 'discrimination. 'And while
we may assume that it would be within the power of the
Congress to make it, we-find ioisupport in the provisioiT8
of the Act for the view that such a discrimination was
intended.
Respondent strongly relies upon our decision in Davis
v. Pringle, 68 U. S. 315. That decision was rendered in
1925, before the amendment of § 64b (7) which defined
the term "person" as there used. From an examination
of the context, the Court reached the conclusion that the
word "person" in the original provision was not intended
to include the United States. The Court noted that "Elsewhere in cases of possible doubt when the Act means the
United States it says the United States." Id., p. 318.
The Congress then amended § 64b (7) by expressly providing that the term "person" should include the United
States. Act of May 27, 1926, 44 Stat. 662, 667. But that
amendment also provided that the term "person" should
include "corporations." At the same time, by the amend-

LINCOLN v. RICKETTS.
373

Opinion of the Court.

ment of § la (6) the scope of the term "corporations"
was extended so as to include "joint stock companies, unincorporated companies and associations." Id. In view
of the explicit inclusion of "corporations" in the amendment of § 64b (7), and the evident intention shown by the
context not to restrict the meaning of the term "corporations," the reasoning of the opinion in Davis v. Pringle
cannot be regarded as apposite to the present case.
We conclude that a municipal corporation is a "corporation" and hence a "person" entitled to the priority
accorded by § 64b (7).
There is a further question, which is one of state law.
The preference under § 64b (7) is only in the case of
"debts owing to any person who by the laws of th6 States
or the United States is entitled to priority."' The further
question then is whether the City of Lincoln is entitled
to priority under the law of Nebraska. The Circuit
Court of Appeals did not determine that question. The
court cited its decision as to the status of the City and
County of Denver under the laws of Colorado (Denver
v. Stenger, 295 Fed. 809; compare U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. McFerson, 78 Colo. 338; 241 Pac. 728), and
apparently assuming, without deciding, that the law of
Nebraska accorded priority to the City of Lincoln, the
court proceeded to base its decision in the instant case
upon the inapplicability of § 64b (7) to a municipal corporation. The law of Nebraska was not discussed.
As we hold that the construction placed upon the Bankruptcy Act was erroneous, the cause will be returned to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the determination of the
remaining issue as to local law.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

