PALMER CLAY CO. v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

PALMER CLAY PRODUCTS CO. v. BROWN,
TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE MUNICIPAL COURT OF BOSTON,
MASSACHUSET'S.

No. 125.

Argued December 13, 1935.-Decided February 10, 1936.

Whether a payment to a creditor by an insolvent debtor on an overdue debt, within four months of the debtor's bankruptcy, operates
as a preference, voidable by the trustee, under § 60 (a), (b), of
the Bankruptcy Act, depends not upon what would have been its
effect on creditors if the debtor's assets had been liquidated and
distributed at the time of the payment but upon its actual effect
determined in the ensuing bankruptcy. P. 228.
290 Mass. 108; 195 N. E. 122, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 556, to review a judgment recovered by Brown as trustee in bankruptcy. The judgment
was entered in the court below pursuant to a rescript from
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts.

Mr. Edward F. Smith, with whom Messrs. Frank H.
Pardee and F. Paul Welsch were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Matthew Brown, with whom Mr. Harrison J.
Barrett was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In the Municipal Court of Boston, Matthew Brown,
trustee in bankruptcy of Metropolitan Builders' Supply
Company, brought this action against Palmer Clay Products Company, to recover as preferences amounts received
on account of an overdue debt. The court found as facts
that the defendant had received several such payments
within the four months preceding the filing of the petition

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

in bankruptcy; and that at the time of each payment
it had reasonable cause to believe that the debtor was
insolvent, and also that such payment would effect a
preference over other creditors of the same class. It refused to rule that the burden rested on the plaintiff-to
prove further that each payment had the effect of enabling the defendant to receive a greater percentage of
its debt. than other creditors of the same class could have
received at the time of such payment if the assets had
then been liquidated. Judgment for $1,843 was entered
pursuant to the rescript of the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts, 290 Mass. 108; 195 N. E. 122, which,
in approving the action of the trial court, followed
Rubenstein v. Lottow, 223 Mass. 227; 111 N. E. 973.
We granted certiorari because the decision, while in accord with Bronx Brass Foundry,Inc. v. Irving Trust Co.,
76 F. (2d) 935, in the Second Circuit, and CommerceGuardian Trust & Savings Bank v. Devlin, 6 F. (2d) 518,
in the Sixth Circuit, conflicts with W. S. Peck & Co. v.
Whitmer, 231 Fed. 893, and other cases in the Eighth
Circuit.1
The question for our determination is the construction
to be given to §§ 60 (a) and (b) of the Bank uptey Act.2
1See Mansfield Lumber Co. v. Sternberg, 38 F. (2d) 614; Haas v.
Sachs, 68 F. (2d) 623. Also, Eyges v. Boylston Nat. Bank, 294 Fed.
286 (D. Mass.); Jentzer v. Viscose Co. (S. D. N. Y.), 13 F. Supp.
540.
2 The applicable provisions are:
"See. 60 (a) A person shall be deemed to have given a preference
if, being insolvent, he has, within four months before the filing of
the petition . . .made a transfer of any of his property, and the
effect of the enforcement of such . . .transfer will be to enable any
one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than
any other of such creditors of the same class.
"See. 60 (b) If a bankrupt shall have . . .made a transfer of
any of his property, and if, at the time of the transfer . . .the

PALMER CLAY CO. v. BROWN.
227

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner contends that a creditor who receives a
part payment of his claim does not receive a preference,
although he has reason to believe that the debtor is insolvent, provided the debtor's assets at the time of the
payment would, if then liquidated and distributed, be
sufficient to pay all the creditors of the same class an
equal proportion of their claims.
Whether a creditor has received a preference is to be
determined, not by what the situation would have been
if the debtor's assets had been liquidated and distributed
among his creditors at the time the alleged preferential
payment was made, but by the actual effect of the payment as determined when bankruptcy results. The payment on account of say 10% within the four months will
necessarily result in such creditor receiving a greater
percentage than other creditors, if the distribution in
bankruptcy is less than 100%. For where the creditor's
claim is $10,000, the payment on account $1000, and the
distribution in bankruptcy 50%, the creditor to whom the
payment on account is made receives $5500, while another
creditor to whom the same amount was owing and no payment on account was made will receive only $5000. A
payment which enables the creditor "to obtain a greater
percentage of his debt than any other of such creditors
of the same class" is a preference.
We may not assume that Congress intended to disregard the actual result, and to introduce the impractical
rule of requiring the determination, as of the date of'each
payment, of the hypothetical question: What would have
been the financial result if the assets had then been liquidated and the proceeds distributed among the then
creditors?
Affirmed.
bankrupt be insolvent and the . ..transfer then operate- as a preference, . . .it shall be voidable by the trustee and he may recover
the property or its value, from such person."

