CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS

OF HOOSAC MILLS CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 401.

Argued December 9, 10, 1935.-Decided 'January 6, 1936.

1. Processors of farm products have a standing to question the constitutionality of the "processing and floor-stock taxes" sought to
be laid upon them by the Agricultural Adjustment Act of May
12, 1933, 48 Stat. 31. Massachusett&v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447,
distinguished. P. 57.
2. A tax, in the general understanding and in the strict constitutional sense, is an exaction for the support of Government; the
term does not connote the expropriation of money from one
group to be expended for another, as a necessary means in a plan
of regulation, such as the plan for regulating agricultural production set up in the Agricultural Adjustment Act. P. 61.
3. In testing the validity of the "processing tax," it is impossible to
wrest it from its setting and treat it apart as a mere excise for
raising revenue. P. 58.
4. From the conclusion that the exaction is not a true tax it does
not necessarily follow that the statute is void and the exaction
uncollectible, if the regulation, of which the exaction is a part,
is within any of the powers granted to Congress. P. 61.
5. The Constitution is the supreme law of the land, ordained and
established by the people, and all legislation- must conform to the
principles it lays down. P. 62.
6. It is a misconception to say that, in declaring an Act of Congress
unconstitutional, the Court assumes a power to overrule or control
the action of the people's representatives. P. 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
,Syllabus.

297 U.S.

7. When an Act of Congress is appropriately challenged in a court,
it is the duty of the court to compare it with the article of the
Constitution which is invoked and decide whether it conforms to
that article. P. 62.
8. All that the court does or can do in such cases is to announce its
considered judgment upon the question; it can neither approve nor
condemn any legislative policy; it can merely ascertain and declare
whether the legislation is in accordance with, or in contravention
of, the provisions of the Constitution. P. 62.
9. The question in such cases is not what powers the Federal Government ought to have, but what powers have in fact been given
it by the people. P. 63.
10. Ours is a dual form of government; in every State there are
two Governments-the State and the United States; each State
has all governmental powers, save such as the people, by the
Constitution, have conferred upon the United States, denied to the
States, or reserved to themselves. P. 63.
11. The Government of the United States ii a Government of delegated powers; it has only such powers as are expressly conferred
upon it by the Constitution and such as are reasonably to be
implied from those expressly granted. P. 63.
12. The Agricultural Adjustment Act does not purport to regulate
transactions in interstate or foreign commerce; and the Government in this case does not attempt to sustain it under the commerce clause of the Constitution. P. 63.
13. In Article I, § 8, cl. 1 of the Constitution, which provides that
Congress shall have power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts
and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States," the phrase "to provide
for the general welfare" is not an independent provision empowering Congress generally to provide for the general welfare, but
is a qualification defining and limiting the power "to lay and
collect taxes," etc. P. 64.
14. The power to appropriate money from the Treasury (Constitution, Art. I, § 9, cl. 7) is as broad as the power to tax; and the
power to lay taxes to provide for the general welfare of the
United States implies the power to appropriate public funds for
that purpose. P. 65.
15. The power to tax and spend is a separate and distinct powcr;
its exercise is not confined to the fields committed to Congress by
the other enumerated grants of power; but it is limited by the
requirement that it shall be exercised to provide for the general
welfare of the United States. P. 65.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Syllabus.
16. The Court is not required in this case to ascertain the scope
of the phrase "general welfare of the United States," or to determin- whether an appropriation in aid of agriculture falls within
it. P. 68.
17. The plan of the Agricultural Adjustment Act is to increase the
prices of certain farm products for the farmer by' decreasing the
quantities produced; the decrease is to be attained by making
payments of money to farmers who, under agreements with the
Secretary of Agriculture, reduce their acreage and crops; and the
money for this purpose is exacted, as a tax, from those who first
process the commodities. Held:
(1) The Act invades the reserved powers of the States. P. 68.
(2) Regulation and control of agricultural production are
beyond the powers delegated to the Federal Government. P. 68.
(3) The tax, the appropriation of the funds raised, and the
direction for their disbursement, are but parts of the plan-the
means to an unconstitutional end. P. 68.
(4) The power of taxation, which is expressly granted to Congress, may be adopted as a means to carry into operation another
power also expressly granted; but not to effectuate an end which
is not within the scope of the Constitution. P. 69.
(5) The regulation of the farmer's activities under the statute,
though in form subject to his own will, is in fact coercion through
economic pressure; his right of choice is illusory. P. 70.
(6) Even if the farmer's consent were purely voluntary, the
Act would stand no better. At best it is a -scheme for purchasing
with federal funds submission to federal regulation of a subject
reserved to the States. P. 72.
(7) The right to appropriate and spend money under contracts
for proper governmental purposes cannot justify contracts that
are not within federal power. P. 72.
(8) Congress cannot invade state jurisdiction by purchasing the
action of individuals any more than by compelling it. P. 73.
(9) There is an obvious difference between a statute stating the
conditions upon which moneys shall be expended and one effective
only upon the assumption of a contractual obligation to submit
to a regulation which otherwise could not be enforced. P. 73.
(10) Owing to the supremacy of the United States, if the contracts with farmers contemplated by the Agricultural Adjustment
Act were within the federal power to make, the States could not
declare them void or prevent compliance with their terms. P. 74.
(11) Existence of a situation of national concern resulting
from similar and widespread local conditions cannot enable Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

297 U.S.

gress to ignore the constitutional limitations upon its own powers
and usurp those reserved to the-States. P. 74.
(12) If the novel view of the General Welfare -Clause now
advanced in support of the tax -were accepted, that clause would
not only enable Congress to supplant the States in the regulation
of agriculture and of all other industries as well, but *would furnish the means whereby all qf'the other provisions of the Constitution, sedulously framed t define and limit the powers of
the United States and preserve the powers of the States, could
be broken down, the independence of the individual States obliterated, and the United States converted into a central government
exercising uncontrolled police power throughout the Union superseding all local control overJocal concerns. P. 75.
(13) Congress, being without powei to impose the contested
exaction, could not lawfully ratify the acts of an executive officer
in assessing it. P. 78.
78 F. (2d) 1, affirmed.

CammoRAiRi 296 U. S. 561, to review a decree which
reversed an order of the District Court (FranklinProcess
Co. v. Hoosac Mills Corp., 8 F. 8upp: 552), directing the
receivers of Hoosac Mills, a cotton milling corporation, to
pay claims of the United States for processing and floor
taxes on cotton, levied under §§ 9 and 16 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of May 12, 1933. The opinion of
this Court begins on p.-5 3 ,. post; the dissenting opinion
on p. 78.
Solicitor General Reed, orally, after stating the case:
The conditions to which power is addressed are always
to be considered -when the exercise of power is challenged,--extraordinary conditions may call for extraordinary remedies; but, as the Court has said, "the argument
necessarily stops short of an attempt to justify action
which lies outside the sphere of constitutional authority.
Extraordinary conditions do not create or enlarge constitutional power." Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaidell, 290 U. S. 398; Schechter Case, 295 U. S. 495.
In the effort to meet the emergencies arising during
this depression, we have proceeded under that view of the

UNITED STIATES v. BUTLER.
I

Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

law; and we do not now contend that the extraordinary
conditions give rise to anything more than an opportunity
to use extraordinary remedies; but, of course, such remedies as flow from the language of the Constitution as it
has been interpreted by this Court.
The -Government, in legislating in regard to the depression, was quick to ratify actions-that had been taken
without clear, specific Congressional authority. The
Court will recall that the first ratification by the Congress
was as to the closing, of the banks, which had been done
under a statute conferring that authority, but in terms
making ratification advisable. Further, there was an
abrogation of the gold clause. There were Acts directed
to the relief of distress. Others authorized lending to
the home-owner, through the Home Owners Loan
Corporation; to the farmer, through the Farm Credit
Corporation; and to banks and industry, through the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
As a part of this concerted effort to bring about recovery, the Agricultural Adjustment Act was passed. It
should not, however, be approached as an emergency
measure, nor as a measure that came into consideration
because of the present emergency. Rather should we
bear in mind that since the 68th Congress at least, the
House and the Senate and the Executive have been giving
careful attention to the problem of agricultural surpluses.
Eight times have acts been .reported by the Agricultural
Committee of the House, and ten times by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Senate. The House
haq rejected two and passed five. The Senate has rejected
two and passed four. It is recalled, of course, that the
McNary-Haugen Act was twice vetoed by President Coolidge, that the Federal Farm Board Act was approved by
President Hoover, and the Agricultural Adjustment Act
by President Roosevelt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

297 U.S.

We have a long history of Legislative and Executive
consideration of the problem of agricultural surplus.
There were innumerable acts that dealt with other agricultural difficulties, rather than the surplus as such. But
it was the mounting supply of the great staple, nonperishable, agricultural commodities that demanded the
attention of the Legislature and of the Executive, and
that has received the attention of the courts throughout
those years.
I need refer only to the Coperative Marketing Acts
passed by States, complemented by acts of Congress,
which had for an end not only an orderly marketing of
commodities but an endeavor to bring about an adjustment of supply and demand and a hoped-for diminution
of a burdensome surplus. They did not achieve that
result.
The Federal Farm Board Act, 46 Stat. 11, 12 U. S. C.
§ 1141, while providing for loans to coiperatives that complied-with the Capper-Volstead Act, 42 Stat. 388, 7 U. S.
C. §§ 291, 292, also contemplated a control of production
of cotton and wheat through stabilization corporations.
I mean the handling of the surplus, as distinct from a
control of the actual growth of the commodity....
The present Act is comprehensive. The title probably
gives as accurate a reflection of its purposes as any statement of mine could do.
1 might say parenthetically that this act in separate
titles dealt with the Farm Credit Administration and the
establishment of the Farm Loan Bank Corporation,
through which two billion dollars was loaned to
agriculture.
The Act opens with a declaration of emergency, and
passes on to a declaration of policy. A cursory reading
will. show that this declaration of policy, while it follows
in form and in location in the Act declarations of policy
that this Court considered in Panama Rfg. Co. v. Ryan,

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

293 U. S. 388, and in Schechter v. United States,
is entirely distinct. It is a great deal more than a hope
of what may happen, and will become important as an
actual standard of what Congress sought from the passage
of this legislation, and of what discretion it gave to its
chosen ingtruments for carrying that out.
The essence of the declaration is that Congress hopes
to re-establish prices to farmers at a level that will give
agricultural commodities a purchasing power, with respect to articles that farmers buy, equivalent to the purchasing power of agricultural commodities in the base
period. For the purpose of this .commodity and of all
othersj I believe, except tobacco, the base period was
fixed as August, 1909, to July, 1914 ...
After this declaration of policy, the Act points out what
is to be done to effectuate it. Part 2 relates to the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to achieve this standard which Congress has laid down. Section 8 gives to the
Secretary of Agriculture the power to pro-vide for reduction in the acreage or reduction in the production for market, or both, of any basic agricultural commodity through
agreements with producers or by other voluntary methods,
and to provide for rental or benefit payments in connection therewith ...
This case involves the floor-stock tax, together with the
processing tax. The processing tax is covered by § 9 of
the Act. Section 9(a) provides the action that puts the
tax into effect, and § 9(b) declares what that tax shall be:
"The processing tax shall be at such rate as equals the
difference between the current average farm price for
the commodity and the fair exchange value of the
commodity," .
The current farm price for the commodity is a figure
determined by the Department of Agriculture. The determination involves many different commodities, but
includes all of those which are basic agricultural com-

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

297 U.S.

modities under this Act. Prices of farm commodities
have been determined and published by the Secretary of
Agriculture for at least twenty years.
The exchange value of the commodity is defined in
§ 9 (c) of the Act, and is--"the price therefor that will give the commodity the same
purchasing power, with respect to articles farmers buy,
as such comodity had during the base period specified
in § 2."
That means that the value or farm price would need to
be increased according to the rising scale of prices for
articles that farmers bought. Both of those factors had
been used. by the Department of Agriculture for many
years ...
The collection of the tax is left to the Collector of Internal Revenue in the usual form, and an appropriation is
made to carry out the purposes of the Act. The appropriation, I am sure, will be found important because it
clearly answers the contention that this tax was wholly
for the purpose of rental and benefit payments.
By § 12 one hundred million dollars are appropriated
"For administrative expenses under this title and for
.rental and benefit payments made with respect to reduction in acreage." It also appropriated "The proceeds derived from all taxes imposed under this title .. . to be
available to the Secretary of Agriculture for expansion
of markets and removal of surplus agricultural products
and the following purposes under Part 2 of this title:
Administrative expenses, rental and benefit payments, and
refunds on taxes."
There has been no adjustment of the tax rates in respect to cotton. No question is here as to refunds of the
tax, nor of amendments to the Agricultural Adjustment
Act. We do not conceive that the amendments (passed
in August, 1935, 49 Stat. 750) have any effect upon the
present case, unless the Court should determine that the

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

old Act, the first Act, does not properly delegate to the
officers of the Government discretion to handle the duties
imposed upon them, and in that case there has been a
ratification of the action of the officers, so that the tax
is now authorized not only by the discretion of the administrative officers, but by the amendatory legislation.
The license taxes are in and of themselves a revenue
measure; they are levied as an excise on the processing of
the commodity, and for that reason are to be. collected
without regard to the purposes for which they are to be
spent, inasmuch as they go into the Treasury of the
United States, together with other funds that were appropriated by the same section, and become there a part
of the revenue of the Government.
It is true that by the very Act which imposed the tax
and provided for its collection, the proceeds were appropriated to other purposes. But § 12 shows that if not
a dollar had been collected in the way of processing laxes,
the Government, nevertheless, made provision for the
payment of rental and benefit contracts out of the hundred million dollars which Congress directly appropriated
and out of the authority which they gave to the Secretary
of the Treasury to furnish funds for carrying on this activity of the Government. As a matter of fact, something
less than a billion dollars has already been collected in
these taxes.
The question of the validity of the Agricultural Adjustment Act as a tax or revenue statute alone is dependent upon a consideration of the cases which this
Court has decided, namely, the Child Labor Tax case, 259
U. S. 20, and the case of Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44,
upon the one side, and United States v. Doremus, 249
U. S. 86, Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, and Magnano Company v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, upon the other.
We distinguish the Child Labor Thx case. That case
involved a tax of ten per cent. upon the profits which

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

297 U. S.

might be earned by a manufacturer who employed child
labor, to be imposed immediately upon a violation of the
law. It was not a tax in the. sense that it was levied
upon an operation by the manufacturer,* but was held
by this Court to be a penalty which affected the income
from the operation of a manufacturer who employed children, and that penalty applied at the very instant when
he employed the first child contrary to that Act, and employed that child knowingly. The doctrine of scienter
entered into that case. In Hill v. Wallace the tax was
upon the selling of futures upon the Grain Exchange,
and was levied at a rate of 20 cents a bushel, when the
commission of the broker was only a fraction of a cent a
bushel, so that it was prohibitive.
This Court said in the case of Veazie Bank v. Fenno
that "the judicial cannot prescribe to the legislative department of the government limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged powers. The power to tax may
be exercised oppressively upon persons, but the responsibility of the legislature is not to the courts but to the
people, by whom its members are elected."
The case of Hampton & Company v. United States,
276 U. S. 394, involved an Act which declared in its very
title that it was for the protection -of industries and
for the raising of revenue.
In the present case there is a plain statement in the
Act that the tax is to be used for something other than
the general support of the Government. The contract
which the Secretary of Agriculture makes with the individual producer is to be for the purpose of inducing the
producer to reduce his production.
In United States v. Doremus, which involved licenses

and taxes to control the dealing in drugs, there was a tax,
in the earlier acts, of only one dollar a year, and a license
for the purpose of handlihg; and upon that tax Congress
built an entire system for information in regard to dealing
in morphine and other narcotics. ' That was upheld. . ..

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

In the case of McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27,
there was a clear intention on the part of Congress, which
was not, however, expressed in the Act itself, to use the
power of taxation for purposes other than the raising of
revenue.
I think it may be said that the Doremus case and the
McCray case on one side, and the case of Hill v. Wallace
and the Child Labor case on the other, lead to the -conclusion that the motives of Congress in levying a tax are
not to be considered by this Court. Even if the Act
shows that the motive is ulterior to the tax in the mind
of Congress, that is immaterial to the validity of the tax,
so long as it is based upon an authority which occurs in
the Constitution.
In both the Child Labor Tax case and in the case of
Hill v. Wallace, you had clear evidence of prohibitions
against constitutional rights which people had and exercised. In the Child Labor T6x case there had been, up to
that time, and of course now is, the right to use child
labor in manufacture if there was no State prohibition;
and of course the brokers who deal upon the Exchange at
Chicago, on the Grain Exchanges wherever they may be,
have the right to deal upon those exchanges. So you had
a tax which in effect prohibited the exercise of a right
by the taxpayer. You had, in the Child Labor case, in
addition to the excessive tax, an imposition of that tax
for a violation of a rule laid down. That, we think, distinguishes those cases from this one. Here is a tax which
is to be used, let us say, in rental and benefit payments,
together with other things,.but there is nothing in the
use for a rental or benefit payment which deprives the
person who contracts with the Government of any constitutional right which he had at that time. He may be
induced to give up a right which he had, which of course
every employee of the Government gives up when he
gives up his liberty to do other things and agrees to do
certain things for the Government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
-Oral Argument of the Solicitor General.

2971. S.

In so far as the excise is concerned, our briefs, I think,
cover that thoroughly. We have the question of uniformity, we have the question of floor-stocks, and I pass to the
problem of delegation.
[Here followed an interesting discussion (interrupted
by many questions from the Bench) of the method of fixing the tax and of the question whether the functions
sought to be delegated to the Secretary of Agriculture in
that regard were constitutionally delegated, with proper
legislative standards. The speaker also contended that,
in any event, the acts of the Secretary in fixing the taxes
were ratified by § 21 (b) of the Amendatory Act of
August 24, 1935.3
As to whether or not this is a violation of -the Fifth
Amendment, we contend that there is no power in the
taxpayer to question the expenditures that are made.
Citing Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447 ...
If the Court should think it proper to go beyond the
tax itself, and consider the purpose for which this money
is expended, then we contend that the general welfare
clause gave Congress power to expend it for rental and
benefit payments.
We distinguish, of course, between the use of Federal
money to coerce some action by an individual, and the
inducement to the individual. We say that the general
welfare clause is a clause that is construed not as a general power, but as a special power in Congress to expend
this money; and we rely particularly upon the case of
United States v. Realty Company, 163 U. S. 427, where
it was held that Congress had authority to appropriate
for the payment of a. claim for sugar bounty which was
a moral claim upon the Government, even if the earlier
act granting the bounty were unconstitutional. .

..

We also take up a discussion of the purpose of this
money-as to whether this tax has been levied for a
public purpose. We do not think that that can be ap-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Brief for the Government.

proached except from the standpoint of the general rules
in regard to the use of tax money. We know how hesitant
the Court is to interfere with the appropriation by Congress of money for purposes deemed by Congress to be
within the public welfare.
We accept the decision in the case of Loan Association
v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, where this Court held that a
State act was not for a public purpose, where it had authorized the payment to a local manufacturer of funds to
operate his business. Upon the other side, the theory of
public purpose upon which we rely is that enunciated in
the case of Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.104. In
that case money was taken from the various banks that
were operating in the State of Oklahoma and paid into a
fund which was to be used to make whole the depositors
in banks that failed. That is .an illustration of the use of
public money for a public purpose. It seems to us
similar to the use that is made here of a tax levied on
processors in the form of an excise passed on to the general consuming public, the purpose of which is to raise
money to be used by the Government in contracts with
farmers, for the reduction of surplus production that was
pressing on the price and pressing on the supply in the
hands of the American handlers of commodities ...
Extracts from the printed argument for the Government, signed by Attorney General bummings, Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, Assistant Attorney GeneralMorris, and Messrs. Sewall Key,
Andrew D. Sharpe, Robert N. Anderson, Alger Hiss,
Mastin G. White, and Prew Savoy.
The sole purpose of the processing and floor-stock taxes
is to raise revenue.
The processing and floor-stock taxes are excises; not
direct taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for the Government.

297 U.S.

The floor-stocks adjustment may be separately justified
as a necessary adjunct to the processing taxes.
Powers were not unlawfully delegated.
If in the original Act Congress exceeded its power to
delegate, that is now immaterial because Congress has expressly ratified the assessment and collection of the taxes.
Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended Aug. 24, 1935,
§ 30, subsec. 21 (b); Rafferty v. Smith, Bell & Co., 257
U. S. 226; The Peggy, 1 Cranch 103, 110; Dinsmore v.
Southern Express Co., 183 U. S. 115; Dorchy v. Kansas,
264 U. S. 286; Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450.
This Court has recognized that Congress may ratify
taxes, illegal when assessed but assessed under claim and
color of authority, if it could have imposed such taxes in
the first instance and if its power to do so remained unimpaired to the date of ratification. United States v.
Heinszen & Co.,.206 U. S.370; Rafferty v. Smith, Bell &
Co., 257 U. S.226. See also Mascot Oil Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 434; Charlotte Harbor Ry. v. Welles,
260 U. S. 8, 10, 11; Seattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S.351, 359360; Hamilton v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73; Hodges v. Snyder,
261 U. S.600, 602-603; Stockdale v.Insurance Companies,
20 Wall. 323, 332; Wagner v. Baltimore,.239 U. S. 207,
216, 217; Mattingly v. Districtof Columbia, 97 U. S.687;
Kansas City Ry. Co.-v. Road District, 266 U.S. 379; Tiaco
v. Forbes, 228 U. S.549. Cf. Matter of People (Title &
Mortgage Guaranty Co.), 264 N. Y. 69; Fisk v. Kenosha,
26 Wis. 23; Miller v. Dunn, 72 Cal. 462.
A tax is not necessarily invalid because retroactively applied. Taxing acts having retroactive features have been
upheld in view of the particular circumstances disclosed.
The processing and floor-stocks taxes do not contravene
the Fifth Amendment. Helvering v. City Bank Farmers
Trust Co., 296 U. S.85; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S.
502, 525; RailroadRetirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295
U. S. 330, 347 (footnote 5); Magnano Co. v. Hamilton,
292 U' S.40, 44; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27;

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Brief for the Government.

Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 521; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107.
The contention that these taxes are not for a public
purpose is simply another way of challenging their character as revenue measures. The mone r collected goes
into the Treasury of the United States. One must
presume that it will be used for a purpose within the
powers of Congress. If so used, no objection could be
made on the ground that the taxes are not levied for a
public purpose. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington,
243 U. S. 219; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. i04;
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533.
Respondents should not be allowed to question the appropriation as a defense to the payment of their, taxes.
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 487. Cf. Knights
v. Jackson, 260 U. S. 12, 15; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S.
608, 620; United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427.
Public policy requires that taxpayers shall not avoid
payment of otherwise valid taxes by questioning the purpose of the levy or of an appropriation contained in.the
taxing statute. The appropriateness of such a rule is
particularly apparent where, as here, it is not possible to
ascertain the exact use to which the taxpayers' money will
be put. It is true that the Act in its original form contained in itself an appropriation. § 12 (b). But this
fact would not have made the money, if collected at that
time, any the less a part of the public funds. See Knights
v. Jackson, 260 U. S. 12. Furthermore, money collected
under the Act could be used to defray any of the Government's expenses should Congress see fit to change the
appropriation before the money was actually transferred
from the general fund of the Treasury as a set-off against
advances made out of that fund. Cf. Head Money Cases,
112 U. S. 580.
In the case of respondents' taxes, the use is made
even more uncertain by the terms of the appropriation
provisions found in the Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for the Government.

297 U.S.

Under the Act of August 24, 1935, the appropriation is
out of the general funds of the Treasury in an amount
equivalent to the taxes collected under the original Act.
Also, under the appropriation the Secretary of Agriculture may now use any part of the money for additional
kids of payments and for the acquisition of agricultural
commodities pledged as security for certain loans made by
federal agencies. Thus, additional objects of expenditure
and additional elements of uncertainty have been
introduced.
The general welfare clause should be construed broadly
to include anything conducive to the national welfare; it
is not limited by the subsequently enumerated powers.
Congress may tax (and appropriate) in order to promote
the national welfare by means which may not be within
the scope of the other Congressional powers. That this,
commonly known as the Hamiltonian theory, is correct, is
show'n by the plain language of the clause; by the circumstances surrounding its adoption; by the opinion of most
of those who participated in the early execution of the
Constitution; by the opinion of later authorities; and by
long-continued practical construction.
The question was elaborately discussed in the briefs
filed in Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; United States v.
Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427; Smith v. Kansas City Title Co.,
255 U. S. 180; and Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.
The Madisonian theory, rejecting the natural meaning,
and treating the clause as an introduction to the subsequent enumeration of Congressional powers (1 Richardson's Messages, etc., 585), violates the basic principle of
constitutional construction. Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet.
540, 570-571. See Story, Const., §§ 912-913. This would
transform a great independent power into a mere incident
of other powers.
The circumstances surrounding the adoption of the
clause and the opinions of most of those who participated

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Brief for the Government.

in the adoption and early execution of the Constitution
support the Hamiltonian view. Arts. of Confed. § 8; 9
Writings of James Madison (Hunt ed.), pp. 411-424,
370-375; 4 Madison, Letters and Writings, 126; Elliott's
Debates.
The clause was adopted along with that relating to
payment of the debts, after a prolonged discussion, not
only of the Revolutionary debts, but also of the power
of Congress, as against that of the States, in regard to
matters of general interest. See Elliott's Debates, V, I;
cf. 4 Madison, Letters and Writings, pp. 121 et seq.
Discussion in the ratifying conventions indicates clearly
an almost unanimous view that the clause was not
limited by the enumerated powers. Elliott's Debates;
Hamilton's Rep. on Manufactures, 3 Hamilton's Works,
pp. 192, 250; President Monroe, 2 Richardson's Messages,
etc., pp. 165, 173.
There would seem no doubt that President Washington
agreed with Hamilton and Monroe (Story, Const., § 978,
note). And it is clear that John Quincy Adams was of the
same 6pinion (Letter to Stevenson, July 11, 1832, reprinted in Cong. Rec., 49th Cong., 1st Sess., vol. 17, Part
8, Appendix, pp. 226 to 229), as was likewise Calhoun (30
Annals of Congress, 14th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 855). Henry
St. George Tucker, of Virginia, representing a special committee of the House of Representatives in 1817, expressed
the same opinion (II American State Papers (Misc.), 443,
446, 447), as did also Daniel Webster (Webster's Great
Speeches, 243). Apparently, Jefferson likewise shared
this view, although his opinion on the Bank of the United
States has been quoted both as supporting the Hamiltopian and the Madisonian view. IV Elliott's Debates,
2d ed., 610. See Story, Const., § 926 (note); 1 Hare,
American Const. Law, 244; and see President Jackson's
statements in his veto of the Maysville Road Bill. [An
Appendix to the Government's brief in this case contains

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for the Government.

297 U. S.

a valuable collection of the opinions on this question delivered before the ratifying conventions, and other examples of contemporaneous exposition. See also 36 Harv.
L. Rev. 548; 23 Georgetown L. J. 155; 22 id. 207; 8 Va.
L. Rev. 167-180; 42 Yale L. J. 878.] Madison himself in
later years recognized that his view had not been followed
in practice. 4 Madison's Letters and Writings. 146.
Not only was the Hamiltonian -theory adopted by the
"weight of contemporaneous exposition" (See Martin v.
Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 350); it has been accepted by most
of the later great commentators on the Constitution. See
Story, ubi supra; Pomeroy, the Const. (3d ed., 1883), pp.
174-175; Willoughby, Const., pp. 582-593; 1 Hare, Am.
Const. L., pp. 241 et seq.; Mr. Justice Miller's "Lectures
on the Constitution," pp. 229-231, 235; Burdick, Const.,
§ 77. Of even more importance is the practical construction by the earlier Congresses. 30 Annals of Congress,
14th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 855; II American State Papers
(Misc.), 443, 446, 447; Story, op. cit., § 991.
The Hamiltonian view has been so continuously and so
extensively followed by Congress that many of our most
familiar and significant governmental policies and activities are dependent upon its validity. [Under this head
the brief cites a large number of instances of appropriations for various objects, including: relief of distress due
to catastrophes; health; education; science; social welfare; industry; agriculture.]
The relevant judicial authorities support the Hamiltonian theory. United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S.
427; Missouri Utilities Co. v. California City, 8 F. Supp.
454, 462; United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry., 160
U. S. 668, 681; Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 595;
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 197; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220-U. S. 107, 153.
The literal reading of the general welfare clause has
been adopted by most of the lower federal courts. Langer
v. United States, 76 F. (2d) 817; Kansas Gas & Electric

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
I

Brief for the Government.

Co. v. Independence, 79 F. (2d) 32, supplemental opinion
on rehearing, 79 F. (2d) 638; Missouri Utilities Co.
v. California. City, 8 F. Supp. 454; Vogt & Sons v.
Rothensies, 11 F. Supp. 225. Cf. Miles Planting Co. v..
Carlisle,5 App. D. C. 138; Washington Water Power Co.
v. Coeur D'Alene, 9 F. Supp. 263.
It is not suggested that -the public money may be expended by Congress for any other than national purposes, or for any other uses than those of the Nation.
But the question of what is a national purpose, of what
is a national use, is, in the first instance, purely a question
of governmental policy, of which Congress is to judge.
The procedure provided -by the Constitution for the
consideration -by Congress of fiscal measures, and the
accountability to the electorate, were the only checks on
congressional appropriations. McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 428; Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall.
433, 443.
The entire range of discussion in the Convention was
directed to locating the power and little or no attention
was given its extent, which everyone seemed to concede
must, in the nature of things, be discretionary. The same
is, in gieral, true of the ratifying conventions. In the
ealy years following the adoption of thd Constitution, the
view was generally expressed that Congress' determination of what was foi' the general welfare was not subject
to judicial review. Madison, Veto Message of March 4,
1817; Hamilton, Opinion on the National Bank, 3 Hamilton's Works (Lodge ed.), p. 485. See also Hamilton's
Report on Manufactures, III Hamilton's Works (Hamilton ed.), p. 250; Monroe, Veto of the Road Bill, II Richardson, 142, 165, 166; Pomeroy, Const. L. (10th ed.),
§ 275; 1 Hare, American Const. L., 249; Cooley, Taxation
(2d ed.), 109; Story, Const., §§ 924, 944, 991, 1348.
in United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427, it was
said that the determination of what debts or claimed debts

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for the Government.

297 U.S.

should be paid "depends solely upon Congress" (p. 441);
and that the decision of Congress recognizing a claim
founded upon principles of right and justice "can rarely,
if ever, be the subject of review by the judicial branch of
the government" (p. 444). If this be true of the word
"dbt"-so familiar to our courts-Congressional application of the term "general welfare" cannot be more
readily subject to judicial review.
The expenditures authorized by the Agricultural Adjustment Act were soundly designed to promote the general welfare. [Here followed an elaborate explanation
of the agricultural situation and the application of the
statute],
The tax was laid and the proceeds appropriated for a
public purpose.
Rules applicable to municipal taxation are not relevant
to the great power of Congress to raise revenues. 1
Cooley, Taxation, 4th ed,, pp. 388-390.
While in local taxation the courts may, in extreme
cases, review the legislative determination that a particular object is for a public purpose, in federal taxation
Congress should be the final arbiter of what constitutes
a federal public purpose. That which is for the "general welfare" as those words are used in the Constitution,
must of necessity also be for a public purpose.
Yet even viewed by the more narrow and critical rules
applicable to state taxation, the purpose here was clearly
public. Citing and discussing many authorities, including Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 665; Green
v. Frazier, 253 U. S. 233, 240-242; FalIbrook Irrigation
District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; Parkersburgv. Brown,
106 U. S. 487; Cole v. LaGrange, 113 U. S. 1.
It is no objection to the tariff acts that they benefit
manufacturers as well as the country generally. Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 696; Hampton & Co. v. United
States, 276 U. S. 394, 411.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Brief for the Government.

The appropriations contemplated by the Act are a valid
exercise of the fiscal powers of Congress. To stabilize and
preserve the credit structure of the Nation, to protect the
banks and other credit agencies which it had already established or sponsored, and to protect the credit of the
Government itself.
It was inevitable that the sudden and tremendous decrease in farm incomes should have caused a serious
strain on the farm-credit agencies which had already been
weakened by the long price decline and general liquid-ation
which had characterized agriculture since 1920. Only by
increasing the purchasing power of the farmer could the
stability of the financial system be restored and the large
investments which the Federal Government had made in
this field ever be liquidated.
Power of control over or regulation of agriculture has
not been asserted, but, to the contrary, the steps authorized by this Act and taken under it do not go beyond the
appropriation and spending of the money.
The contracts are a matter of negotiation and voluntary agreement and on the part of the United States
amount to no more than a method by which the Secretary of Agriculture sees that the money appropriated
goes to persons in the class specified by Congress. It is,
indeed, probable that the Secretary would be held to have
the right to enter into contracts of this sort even though
he had not been specifically authorized by Congress to
do so. See United States v. Fidelity & Deposit Co.,
80 F. (2d) 24. Similar contracts are entered into by
administrative officials in almost every case where money
is expended for such familiar matters as the construction
of buildings and the delivery of supplies.
It would be most unusual to suppose that a contract
of this nature, entered into freely by both parties, is an
exercise of sovereign regulation and control over one of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for the Government.

297 U.S.

the parties or over the subject matter with which the
contract deals. "The United States, when they contract
with their citizens, are controlled by the same laws that
govern the citizen in that behalf." United States v.
Bostwick, 94 U. S. 53, 66; See also Cooke v. United States,
91 U. 5. 389, 398; Smoot's Case, 15 Wall. 36. No method
of enforcement of these contracts has been provided by
Congress. Under them the rights of the United States
are no greater than would be the rights of a private citizen under similar contracts, and enforcement must be by
ordinary judicial process according to the law of the
forum. The contracts are not derogatory of any sovereign
rights of the States; they are carried out pursuant to and
under the protection of the laws of the States.
I In this Act the Government goes no further than offering benefits to those who comply with certain conditions.
If power over the matters to which those conditions relate is vested in the States, they remain free to pass laws
rendering it impossible for any of their inhabitants to
comply with such conditions. In so doing the States
would not be clashing with any enactment -of Congress,
even though the result wer6 to terminate completely the
administration of the agricultural provisions of the Act
in those States. There is no attempt to require the
States to.take or refrain from action with respect to agricultural land within their borders, a power which this
Court in Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, has declared
does not reside in the Federal Government.
The distinction between an application of the lawmaking power to enforce compliance, and the use of the
spending power to persuade, was pointed out in Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 529, and
illustrated by the case of Federal Compress Co. v. McLean,
291 U. S. 17.
The effect which the Act of Congress will have in a
State is dependent entirely upon the voluntary action of

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

that State and its inhabitants. The situation is much like
that in Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S.447.
Furthbrmore, if the expenditure results in regulation of
matters normally -vithin-state control, that result cannot
qepiiv-e Congress of the -right of taxation for the general
welfare given it by the Constitution. McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S.27.
Similarly, considering this Act as an exercise of the
fiscaf powers of *Congress, it is not invalid even if it invades state fields. First National Bank v. Fellows, 244
U. S.416; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 539.
Oral argument of Mr. George Wharton Pepper, for respondents.
May it please your Honors, this record gives rise, as I
see it, to two entirely distinct questions. One question
is whether the portions of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act which are under discussion would be constitutional in
respect of the taxes levied under their authority, if Congress had itself levied them and settled every detail in
connection with them. The second is the entirely distinct question (assuming that Congress might itself have
done all that the Secretary of Agriculture has here done)
whether' the delegation to him of the authority in virtue
of which he had undertaken to act was such a valid delegation that the acts done by him have the quality of
taxation.
Mr. Hale, my colleague, who represents the receivers,
respondents in this case, has invited me to address myself
to the first of these questions, namely, whether or not this
processing tax is a valid exaction, irrespective of the question of delegation; and he, with your Honors' permission,
will address himself to the question of delegation, a great
and important question in the case, but quite distinct, as
it seems to me, from the one which I am going to discuss.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

I have no disposition to raise an issue with the Solicitor
General respecting the seriousness of the situation with
which Congress undertook to deal; but when I come to
consider whether or not the attempted remedy for the
economic evils is or'is not within the limits of the power
of Congress, I cannot escape the conclusion that in his
argument, able as it was, he has indulged somewhat in
oversimplification. The case presents to him no difficulty.
Congress, in the familiar course of legislation, has done
two things, both of which, as he sees it, are well within
its power. First it has laid a tax. Second it has made An
appropriation. The tax feature is an ordinary exercise of
the taxing power; and, as to the appropriation, even if
it is for any reason questionable, nobody has a standing to
question it. Apart from the question of delegation, he
thus readily convicts the court below of error and asks
confidently for a reversal.
I, on the' other hand, find in this record some constitutional questions of great difficulty and of vast importance.
It seems to me that a reversal of the judgment appealed
from would justify the conclusion that Congress, originating as a federal legislature with limited powers, has
somehow been transformed into a national parliament
subject to no restraint except self-restraint.
I venture to hope that the'judicial power of the United
States does not extend to working any such transformation
and that, to bring it about, w& the people of the United
States must deliberately resort to the process of constitutional amendment.
One of the difficulties necessarily involved in the argument of this case is to identify the relevant portions of
the statute and to isolate the essential facts, and then
make a statement of them that is full enough to be fair
but compact enough to be manageable. Although the
Solicitor General has done this to the extent required by
his argument, I hope the Court will be patient with me
if I attempt a brief restatement.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

In what I am about to say I am referring to the unamended act, inasmuch as the taxes sought to be recovered by the Government in the instant case had accrued
before the amendment. The significance of the amendment will be discussed at the proper point in the argument in connection wiih what we hold to be an ineffective
attempt to ratify taxes theretofore invalid.
Any such statement must, as its first point, make a
reference to the declared policy of the AAA, which is
found in § 2 of Title I. That policy is by an elaborate
mechanism to re-create for the farmer the favorable financial conditions which, under the operation of economic
law, he for a short time enjoyed about a quarter of a
century ago. More specifically, the policy is to raise the
price which the farmer receives for a unit of what he
produces until the sale of that unit shall enable him to
buy as much and as many needed commodities as a unit
sale would have enabled him to buy during the base
period. The base period selected as the golden age of
agriculture is, in the case of all commodities except tobacco and potatoes, the pre-war period from 1909 to
1914. In the case of tobacco and potatoes it is the postwar decade from 1919 to 1929. The golden age value to
be secured for the unit is called its "fair exchange value."
Obviously its determination requires first the ascertainment (at any given moment) of the actual current market
price of the unit; second the actual current market price
of commodities needed by the farmer; third the number
of dollars that a unit fetched in the base period; and,
fourth, the quantity of needed commodities for which a
unit was then exchangeable. When the Secretary of Agriculture has ascertained these factors' he has the material
for a formula which will determine the gap or "spread"
between the actual price and the ideal, or parity, price.
This gap it is the laudable purpose of the act to close.
Accordingly, the Secretary undertook, in the early part

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

of 1933, to determine what had been, in the base period,
the farm price per pound of cotton, and he found that it
was 12.40 cents. He .then ascertained that the price index
of the commodities which farmers buy pointed to a figure
higher than their price in the base period by 3 per cent,
so that the figure was 103 per cent as of the time of his
determination compared with the situation in the base
period.
Applying his 103 per'cent to'his 12.40, he got 12.77.
He then ascertained that the' farm price current for a
pound of cotton was 8.7 cents. Subtracting the 8.7 cents
from 12.77, he got 4.07. Then he made an adjustment,
whicll is explained by the fact that the farm prices have
to do with the lint cotton, in bales, and the price to the
farmer is based upon the unbaled weight, so he finally
determined the gap "to be 4.2 per pound.
It is perfectly true, as the Solicitor Geneial has said,
that we do not dispute that the Secretary of Agriculture
did the best job he could do with the figures at his disposal. He gathered a lot of statistics from all over the
country, and he weighted them and he did all the things
which have been suggested from the bench as the common
practice in the departments; and there did result this
figure of 4.2, and there is no dispute between us respecting the fidelity with which the Secretary acted in an
attempt tQ find the figures upon which to base the tax.
Adjustment of production to consumption by closing
the gap in order to increase the purchasing power of agricultural commodities thus being the ultimate objective,
the second important point is that the adjustment is to
be accomplish&d by a reduction in acreage, or -reduction
.in the production for market, or both, of any basic agricultural commodity. This reduction of production is relied upon to cause a corresponding diminution of marketable units and a consequent approximation of their actual
market price to the golden age price.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

I pause to note that the phrase "adjustment of production o consumption" is really not an accurate statement of the objective. The natural meaning of that
phrase is that you are merely reducing production to the
extent of equalizing it to a consumption which is to remain undisturbed. It is evident, however, that what is
really proposed is such a reduced production as will secure
for the farmer his parity price, irrespective of the effect
produced upon the consumer.
The third point is that the closing of the gap through
reduction of production is to be accomplished principally,
through agreements with producers containing provisions
for rental or benefit payments in such amounts as the
Secretary of Agriculture deems fair and reasonable; the
producer in consideration of the payment agreeing to act
in conformity with the federal policy.
The fourth point is that, in order to raise the money
with which to purchase the promise of the farmer to limit
his production and otherwise submit to regulation, a processing tax is levied upon processors in respect of the first
conversion of raw material into a manufactured product;
and the.proceeds of this tax, while paid into the Treasury,
are appropriated in advance to the Secretary of Agriculture for the specific purposes which I shall presently state.
The rate of tax, per unit processed, is by the act declared
to be the difference between the current average farm
price for the commodity and the fair exchange value
thereof. In other words, the rate of tax corresponds to the
gap or spread between the actual and the ideal. Thus the
rise and fall of the so-called tax is dependent upon factors
wholly unrelated to the business of the processor. From
his point of view the tax might as well have been levied
at a figure per unit processed dependent upon the rise or
fall of the mercury in the Fahrenheit thermometer.
The next point to be noted is that the proceeds of the
tax when received by the Secretary of Agriculture are to

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

be available for specific purposes, to wit, disbursements
which include not merely rental and benefit payments to,
farmers but what is euphemistically described as "expansion of markets" and "removal of surplus agricultural
products." "Expansion of markets" I understand to include those open market operations which, when conducted in financial centers, are described as "rigging the
market." "The removal of surplus agricultural products"
means in the case of hogs (for example) the purchase of
quantities of animals at high prices and their incineration
with a view to limitation of supply. My friend the Solicitor General is quite right when he says that there was
appropriated a hundred million dollars initially out of the
Treasury, before the scheme got to work, which was available for the time being for rental and benefit payments;
but I am sure that the provision of the Act has not escaped
him which is to the effect that as the proceeds of the tax
come in, the amounts advanced by the Treasury are to be
repaid; so that the whole financing of the scheme which
I am outlining is accomplished by a tax paid by the processors in accordance with a measure or yardstick which
has no relation under heaven to their activity or the
business they are to do.
Finally, it may be observed that the original list of
agricultural commodities as contained in § 11 of the act,
has been increased by the subsequent inclusion of many
others, the most recent being potatoes. Naturally it is
impossible to make a definite statement respecting the
scope of that provision of the act which authorizes the
imposition of compensating taxes on articles found to be
in competition with basic commodities. These competing commodities are to be identified only by the Secretary and might include a vast area of production in addition to the area specified in the act.
In making the foregoing statement I have carefully
refrained from stating such features of the act as give rise

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.

I

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

to the question of delegated power. It seems to me to
conduce to clearness to reserve a reference to those features until the argument on delegation is made. I merely
remark in passing that the whole scheme of the act necessarily calls for so many determinations, adjustments and
decisions on points of policy that it might fairly be described as a scheme for the government of agriculture with
the Secretary of Agriculture as Governor General.
That is my basic statement of the significant parts of
the Act and of the facts which it seems to me it is important to bear in mind in approaching the constitutional
questions, which, as I have said, seem to me to be two.
I affirm, first, that the processing exaction is not in its
nature the exercise of the taxing power of the United
States, but is wholly regulatory in character, and is part
of a nation-wide scheme for the Federal regulation of local
agricultural production; and, second, that if that scheme
as a whole is unconstitutional as an invasion of the reserved powers of the States, then the whole scheme falls
and the processing tax falls with it. ...
When the Court rose yesterday I had completed an
introductory statement upon the basis of which I desire
to present two propositions for the consideration of this
Court.
First: That the exactions called processing taxes are not
exercises of the taxing power as such but are integral parts
of a regulatory scheme and are themselves regulatory in
character.
Second: That this regulatory scheme is an invasion of
the field reserved by the Tenth Amendment to the States
and to the people and that therefore the scheme must fall
and carry the processing taxes with it.
If I can sustain these propositions, then without regard
to the question of delegation, the judgment appealed
from must be affirmed. I confidently assert, without

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

arguing the point, that if my propositions are sound, nothing in the amendment of August 24, 1935, in any way
affects them. I do not understand it to be seriously contended that the amendment has changed the nature of
the regulatory scheme. If the original act was invalid for
lack of power the amendment is in no better case.
The outline of the scheme which I have already made
makes it clear that control of production is the objective
of Congress. I now wish to show that the processing tax
is merely a cog, though an essential cog, in the regulatory
machine. That this is its true character appears from the
following considerations:
There is no tax until the Secretary of Agriculture determines that rental or benefit payments are to be made.
See § 9. (a). In other words, the making of rental or
benefit payments is the sole occasion for the tax.
The declared objective being to close the gap between
the farmer's financial condition today and his condition
in a pre-war period, the rate of the tax is declared to be
the extent of such gap. § 9 (b). In other words, (as already explained) there is no relation whatever between
the rate of tax and the activity of the processor, except
that the extent of the gap in the farmer's income is translated into such-and-such a sum per pound of raw material
processed. Congress in so many words has said "We exact
from the processor a sum equal to our estimate of what
the farmer should be receiving in addition to his present
income."
The sum so exacted is to be paid into the treasury but
is by the act itself so appropriated as to be available to the
Secretary of Agriculture for rental and benefit payments
and other features of the reduction program. § 12 (b).
In other words, the tax and its use are so related that,
except for the specified use, there would be no tax, and
except for the tax, the scheme could never go into effect.
The tax terminates at the end of the marketing year
current at the time the Secretary determines to discon-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

tinue rental and benefit payments. § 9(a). In other
words, just as the proposed exercise of control is the occasion of the tax so a determination to abandon control
marks the end of the tax. The provision on that subject
is the reciprocal of the first that I mentioned. The tax
goes into effect when the Secretary declares that rental
and benefit payments are to be made. The tax ceases to
exist at the end of the-market year when he declares that
the rental and benefit payments are to terminate; and,
as I have explained, in the interval the tax, in theory at
least, is modified upward or downward by fluctuations in
the fortunes of the farmer. I say "in theory at least,"
because (referring to the brief filed on behalf of the processors of hogs) you will find that while in the case of cotton it so happens, as so clearly explained by the SolicitorGeneral yesterday, that the tax has been maintained and
still exists at the same figure at which it was originally
placed-namely, 4.2 cents per pound, that being the precise mathematical outcome of the formula in the act, with
some administrative adjustments-in the case of hogs the
authority given to the Secretary to approach compliance
with the formula gradually has been exercised so liberally
that while the tax which the formula would have yielded
at the time the tax was imposed was something over four
dollars and a half per hundred-weight of hogs, the Secretary imposed a tax first of fifty cents, then of a dollar,
then of a dollar and a half, and subsequently, as of March,
1934, a tax of $2.25 the hundred-weight, which has continued in effect and is in effect at the present time, although at the outset that was only about half the figuic
yielded by the formula; and the gap has in fact so far
closed, owing to the successful operation of the scheme,
that there was, I think, one time when the gap disappeared entirely; and'there are judicial findings in a number of cases to the effect that the gap had shrunk to 81
cents at the time of the findings in question, although the
tax was still maintained at $2.25.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

I mention this to show that the tax is regulatory in
character, and does not really follow even the fluctuations
as required by the formula, but that resort must be had
to that provision of the Act which authorizes the Secretary not merely to fix the rate at the outset in accordance
with the formula or a gradual approach to it, but authorizes him to maintain the tax after it has been laid, so that
if the tax equals the formula or is less than the formula
at the time it is laid, and subsequently the gap closes,
even approaching the vanishing point, the power to maintain is invoked for the purpose of keeping the tax at a
figure in excess of the formula, provided in the opinion of
the constituted authority it is necessary to do that thing
in order to regulate local production.
Since the object of the scheme of federal control is to
enable the farmers to get higher prices for their products,
and so idJose the gap, it must follow that if (for example)
the processors of hogs had voluntarily paid to their several vendors such prices as would close the gap there
never would have been any tax whatever.
While the formula for the tax rate is specified in the
act, the Secretary of Agriculture is given discretion to
lower it, § 9(b); he is, by § 15(a), given authority toexempt the processing of any commodity from all tax
whatever, and even to refund what has been paid; and he
is empowered by § 15(d) to impose compensating taxes
of unspecified amounts upon commodities competing with
basic commodities.
In view of the foregoing I submit that what Congress
has done is not to exercise its taxing power except as part
of and solely in aid of a regulatory scheme, the administration of which it has confided to an executive official.
If I am right in my analysis, it is about as clear a case
of an exaction masquerading as a tax, but really regulatory in its character as I think has ever come before
this Court.....

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

Now, may it please your Honors, if I am right in my
contention that this so-called processing tax is merely a
regulatory exaction, and not an exercise of -the taxing
power as such, it remains for me to satisfy your Honors
that it is such an exaction as should fall if the scheme
itself is beyond the power of Congress.
On this point I contend that this Court has decided
that wherever it appears upon the face of the statute that
levies are being imposed not to replenish the public treasury but to control the conduct of the private citizen, the
validity of the levy depends upon whether the exercise of
control is within the powers granted by the people to
Congress.
At this point the Solicitor General advances the objection that there is a difference between this case and the
decisions to which I refer. He is right: there is a difference but it is not a significant difference. It is true-that
in the Child Labor Case and others the tax was laid upon
A in order to control A's conduct. In the instant case
the money is exacted from A in order to be used for the
control of the conduct of B. If, however, the fact be
that control of conduct is the legislative objective and if
such control cannot be accomplished without resort to a
tax, then it must be immaterial whether the control, if
achieved, results from A's desire to escape the tax or
from B's readiness to exchange his freedom for a share
of A's money. ...
But the objection is then advanced in another form.
It is said that in the instant case it is optional with the
farmer whether he will accept the benefit payment and
that, if he subjects himself to control, he does so voluntarily. This, it seems to me, is a factual distinction without a legal difference. The employer of child labor was
not coerced except by economic pressure. The farmer is
not coerced except by economic pressure. Whether the
pressure takes the form of threatened exaction or of prom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

ised bounty, the Court is faced by the same fundamental

proposition, namely that Congress is using the device of
a tax as a means to the exertion of effective pressure upon
the citizen in order to make him conform to congressional
policy. If the control thus sought is within some granted
power, well and good.

If not, the whole scheme fails.

The Court will note that I am not contending that a
federal loan or a federal bounty to farmers is, per se,
invalid. I recognize that for a hundred years there have
been all sorts of unchallenged congressional appropriations to promote agriculture. but these measures merely
offered advice or instruction or extended financial aid to
farmers. -Jnocase, as far as I know, was there an attempt by Congress through the use of money to regulate
local production. The type of regulation here attempted
is the limitation of local agricultural production. Sup-

pose it were the policy of a given State to stimulate such
production through bounties or by more-positive coercion.

I find it hard to believe that the Constitution of the
United States would sanction a public auction in which
the farmer is placed on the auction block, the federal government bidding in order to purchase his promise to linit
production and the State bidding in order to retain his
loyalty to the local law.

That is not at all an extravagant

illustration, because, if, when your Honors come to look
at Mr. Donald's able brief [referring to one of the briefs
filed by amici curiae] you will glance at page 42, you
will find the most interesting collection of constitutional,

and statutory declarations in the several States that seem
to me to be at war with this Federal policy; and if it is
going to be possible for the Federal Government to offer
pecupiary reward to the farmer -under conditions such
that he cannot very well afford to decline, you get a situation in which he sells his freedom for this mess of pottage, and disavows his allegiance to that State which,
under the Tenth Amendmaeat, is entitled tcv control his

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

production, and subjects himself to what is, in that sense,
an alien scheme. I always distrust my capacity to put a
perfect dilemma; but I suggest that in this case one of two
things is true-either that control acquired by purchase
is, if lawful, the supreme law of the land or that a scheme
of local regulation which it is within the power of the
State to nullify is a scheme which Congress lacks the
power to set up.
If you look at the case realistically, it is not a voluntary
matter with the farmer whether he.does pr does not accept the regime. It is no more, voluntary than it was
in the case of the manufacture rof goods made -with child
and,
L still rer a in*in the
labor to continue to pay the t
business of which Congress disapp.pved. It inot possible for the farmer in any neighiborhood whorefuses to
accept the regime to compete successfully with his next
door neighbor who has accepted it. If.yqu think realistically, it is not a voluntary scheme at all; and if you
will glance at pages 32 to 36 in Mr. Donald's brief and
note the intensive sales effort that was put out to capture
the allegiance of the farmers, you will think that I am not
extravagant in saying that that was a method of compulsion that is a good deal more effective than allotting
quotas and threatening criminal penalties for their violation. It is a good deal more effective to purchase control
with the use of Jiberal sums of money than it is to enfbrce
obedience to a complicated scheme b'y means of criminal
sanctions.
-In connection with the emphasis laid by the Government upon the alleged voluntary character of the farmer's
consent to be regulated, I think it significant to note that
there is nothing voluntary in the consequences of his
action as they affect the processor and the consumer.
These people may well be neighbors of the farmer and
citizens of the same .State. The necessary result of the
farmer's agreement with the federal government to limit

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

production is threefold: first, it subjects the processor to
a tax; second, it raises the price which the irocessor'must
pay to the farmer for his raw material; and, third, even
if the processor absorbs the tax, he must reflect the rise
in raw material costs in his price to the retailer-who, in
turn, exacts an increased pried from the ultimate cofn sumer. There is, I -repeat ho hingvoluntary in this.,
scheme as respects the effect upon processor and public.
I mention this merely by 'the way; because I am contending that the criVerion of validity or invalidity is the
control sought by Congress and not the nature of the
economic pressure exerted to secure it.
I have now attempted to establish that these processing
exactibns are an integral part of a scheme to regulate
local production and to affect the price of agricultural
commodities and so must be declared invalid if the
scheme as a whole is invalid. Before passing to my second proposition-namely, that the scheme is invalidI wish to notice a final objection made by the Government against treating the scheme of the act as a unity.
It is said that while A may resist payment of an exaction intended to control his own conduct, he has no standing to resist it if the proceeds are to go into the Treasury
and there become subject to uncontrollable spending
power. There is in this objection what seems to me an
obvious fallacy. The precedent relied upon by the Govermnent-Massachusetts v. Mellon-is merely authority
for the proposition that neither a State nor an individual
taxpayer has a sufficiently direct pecuniary interest to
give him a standing to question the validity of an appropriation of money which is lawfully in the Treasury and
subject to appropriation. The question prese'ted by this
record is wholly different. Here the citizen is resisting an
attempt of the Federal Government to take money out
of his own pocket and is basing his resistance upon the

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

invalidity of the scheme of which both the threatened
collection and proposed disbursement are necessary parts.
I do not overlook the announcement recently carried
by the press that if this act is declared unconstitutional
the next move of Congress will be to levy an excise in one
Act and then appropriate money for benefit payments by
another. If such a course is followed it will be time
enough to discuss the constitutional questions to which
it may give rise. I venture the suggestion, however, that
if the spending power is ever thus deliberately invoked
to enlarge the area of Congressional control, it might not
be impertinent to ask this Court to consider whether, in
a democracy, the individual citizen has not a standing to
call the legislature to account, not because of his pecuniary stake but because of his responsible share in
government.
I come now to my second proposition-which is that
a scheme to regulate farm production and fix farm prices
is an invasion of the field reserved by the Tenth Amendment.
I do not see how there can be much controversy over
the purpose of this Act. The draftsman with commendable frankness has, as we have seen, explicitly stated
it. Whether you call it realistically the philosophy of
scarcity or euphemistically the adjustment of production
to consumption, the plain fact is that the reduction of
local production of crops must at all hazards be achieved
or else the desired increase in farm prices is unattainable.
It seems to me, therefore, that we have, as to agriculture,
the same type of regulation unsuccessfully attempted by
NRA in the case of industry. If the Court will compare
the declarations of emergency in the two Acts it will be
seen that obstruction of the normal currents of commerce
figures largely in what Congress evidently hoped would be
accepted by the Court as jurisdictional facts. In the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

case of both Acts the draftsman had a rosy vision of
nationwide economic recovery achieved through increased
commodity prices and he mistakenly assumed that this
end could be lawfully accomplished through regimentation by a central authority-in one case the President, in
the other the Secretary of Agriculture.
When NRA was submitted for judicial examination an
effort was made to salvage it by seeking authority for the
codes in the power to regulate interstate commerce.
Now, however, when AAA is before the Court, there is a
significant silence on the part of the Government as to
the commerce clause. It seems to be conceded, as indeed
it would have to be in the light of the Schechter decision,
that the federal regulation of production is wholly beyond
the scope of the commerce clause. The whole reliance of
the Government is accordingly placed upon the proposition that we have nothing to consider but an unimpeachable tax and an uncontrollable appropriation.
To support the tax argument, the Government invokes
the general welfare clause. This seems to me to afford
the coldest kind of cold comfort.
As I understand it, when Congress merely imposes a
tax (whether it be a uniform indirect tax or an apportioned direct tax) no question of purpose is involved.
There are plenty of legitima.te governmental needs for
money, and Congress, presimably, is merely undertaking
to meet them. Accordingly no problem arises unless and
until, in the very act of imposing the tax, Congress (as
here) specifies the purpose for which the money is sought
to be raised. The purpose so specified might be one
clearly within some recognized congressional power. In
such case no difficulty would be presented. But suppose
(as here) that the only specific power that might plausibly
be invoked (to wit, the commerce power) falls far short
of what is required. It is then, and then only, that recourse is had to the proposition that it is within the exclu-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

sive power of Congress to determine that a particular
measure will promote the general welfare and that accordingly a tax to be applied for the purposes of that measure
is a valid tax. This proposition, as far as I can see,
means this: that Congress may determine that a certain
nation-wide policy is necessary to the welfare of the
nation; ergo that legislation to effectuate such policy
must be within the power of Congress; and that, if you
cannot find an applicable specific power which covers the
case, you invoke the general welfare clause. The practical result of this argument is the same as that which
would flow from the doctrine of "inherent national
power" upon which this Court put a quietus in Kansas v.
Colorado. Whether Congress invokes "inherent power"
or wallows in the welfare clause-in either event the
powers reserved by the Tenth Amendment disappear and
that against which I solemnly protest ensues-namely the
conversion of a federal legislature into a national parliament-with the consequent destruction of the right of
local self-government.
As I understand it, there are three possible views of the
general welfare clause. It seems to me to be patient of
two interpretations and can be tortured into a third. It
is patient of the Madisonian view; it is patient of the
Hamiltonian view; and it can be tortured, possibly, although I hope not, to answer the needs of the Solicitor
General in the present case.
I understand Madison's view to have been that the welfare for which Congress may appropriate is the welfare
which may be achieved in the exercise of the granted
powers. I understand the Hamiltonian view to have been
that, irrespective of the existence of power in virtue of
specific grants or implications, the power to tax may be
used to raise revenue for the general welfare, and that appropriations may be made out of that fund for such purposes as Congress may think fit. But I did not know,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

until this statute proposed it, of any interpretation which
begins where Hamilton stops, and asserts that because
you may appropriate for anything which Congress thinks
is consonant with the public welfare, you may, through
that appropriation, control the local conduct of the producer in a particular reserved to the States under the
Tenth Amendment. That, it seems to me, is 'the general
welfare clause gone mad. It seems to me it is impossible
to sustain any such view without throwing overboard
once and for all the idea that Congress is a federal legislature with limited powers. It carries you all the way
to the other extreme, which is that of the national parliament subject to no restraint but self-restraint ...
The commerce clause failing to serve his purposeand the general welfare clause being unsafe ground on
which to build, four subsidiary arguments are advanced
by the Solicitor General to which I wish to refer briefly.
The first is based upon the historical fact that spending
is an executive function. No student of English constitutional history will dispute the proposition and no contemporary observer can doubt that even in the United
States the same function is effectively exercised by the
Executive. But the conclusion sought to be drawn is a
non-sequitur. Because the Executive may spend as he
pleases, it is argued that when he pleases to make a certain expenditure his decision puts into operation a tax to
raise the money for him to spend. Whether you call this
a delegation to him of the taxing power or whether he is
attempting to delegate to Congress his executive discretion is largely a matter of words. The practical result
would be to give to the President and to Congress an unlimited power to tax for any purpose which could be
attained by* inflating the general welfare clause to the
utmost. . ..
Next it is said that Congress may organize banks and
other agencies with power to lend money to farmers on

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Qral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

mortgage. This may be conceded. But the conclusion is
remarkable-namely, that therefore Congress may take
over the control of production in order to increase the
farmer's ability to repay the loan. If this argument had
been advanced a year ago it might have saved the NRA;
because, since Congress has authorized the formation of
National Banks with power to lend money to industrialists, it would seem to follow that Congress may take
control of any and all industries to make it more 1lely
that the notes will be paid. Here again the trouble with
the argument is that it proves too much. It frees ihe
legislature from all constitutional restraint.
The third subsidiary argument is based upon the proposition that power to pay the debts of the United States
includes power to discharge a moral obligation. This may
be conceded. Thus, if a farmer had performed his part
of a contract with the Secretary and the latter were to
refuse to pay the consideration on the ground that the
contract was void, and if Congress were then to appropriate for the relief of the farmer, nobody could enjoin the
appropriation. But to argue that Congress may therefore authorize an unconstitutional scheme in order to create an honorary duty, and may then tax the processor to
raise the money to perform it, seems to me to be juggling
with words. If the United States is unjustly enriched by
accepting a farmer's performance, let Congress appropriate funds in the trdasury not otherwise appropriated. If
the honor of all the people is at stake, let all the people
vindicate it. But for goodness sake do not permit the
United States to purge itself of unjust enrichment by unjustlkr impoverishing the processor. The United States
would not be entitled to a thrill of moral satisfaction
merely because it had robbed Processor Peter in order to
pay Producer Paul.
A fourth subsidiary argument is built around the contention that the farmer needs a tariff-and that therefore

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

297 U.S.

he should have it in the exercise of the same power that
justifies the international tariff. The argument overlooks
the fact that the international tariff i primarily an exer-cise of the express power to regulate commerce with foreign nations. It was so decided in Board of Trustees of
State University v. United'States in 289 U. S. Being
free to forbid admission of goods from abroad, Congress
may regulate their admission and use the taxing power
in aid of regulation. There is no corresponding power to
regulate agricultural production-and the argument loses
its force. It has then no other basis than the exploded
doctrine of "inherent national power"-to -which reference has already been made.
There is one aspect of this case which requires a reference to the Fifth Amendment.
The Solicitor General indeed stoutly maintains that the
Amendment has nothing to do with this case. I agree that
if this processing exaction is merely part of a regulatory
scheme that is beyond the power of Congress, then the
reason for the invalidity of the tax is, not the Fifth
Amendment, but the lack of power to control local
production.
On the other hand, if I am wrong in my main contention
and if Congress may lawfully regulate such productionon the general welfare theory or some other equally
vague-it by no means follows thatthe entire cost of the
regulatory process may be taken out of the pockets of the
processors. As the Fifth Amendment applies to the exercise of all the powers of government it must apply to
the regulatory lpower of Congress no niatter whence derived. I concede that an excise tax on all processors to
help raise money for the federal treasury could not be
resisted merely because it was too heavy. If (contrary to
my .earnest contention) it were assumed that regulation
of production by benefit payments and other uses of
money is within some power of Congress, I should also

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Oral Argument of Mr. Pepper.

have to concede that money in the treasury raised by
general taxation is available for such use. I suggest, however, that there is something essentially unjust in compelling the first handler of an agricultural commodity to
contribute whatever is necessary to make up deficiencies
in the income of the man who produces that commodity.
It is all very well to think of the promotion of the agricultural industry as a public purpose; but to integrate the
industry for purposes of regulation by treating the handler and producer as having interlocking interests and
then to compel the stronger group to extend financial aid
to the weaker comes perilously close to taking A's property and giving it to B. Something like this was attempted by Congress in the Railroad Retirement Act,
where strong roads were expected to make up the deficiencies of the weak. This exaction from the processor
might be justified if there were any ascertainable relation
between the rate of tax and the activity in respect of
which the excise is levied. But when it appears that the
tax rate is determined by the width of the gap between
what the farmer's income is and what Congress thinks it
ought to be, it begins to look as if the processor were
brought upon the scene merely in order to have his pocket
picked for the benefit of the farmer. It would be hard
enough on the processor to have to submit t6 assessment
merely to increase the producer's income; but when we
reflect that the increase is accomplished by using the proceeds of the tax to raise the price which the processor has
to pay for his raw material, the question arises whether
this is the due process which the Fifth Amendment guarantees. It seems clear to me that it is not due process to
measure an excise on. processing by a deficiency in
producer's income.
It is not possible for me to extract from the due process
decisions of this Court a formula for determining what
does and what does not come within the condemnation

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for Respondents.

297 U.S.

of ihe Fifth Amendment. Probably the Court has deliberately avoided the formulation of a rule for the same reason that chancellors refuse to specify the limits of fraud.
Each case must be determined in the light of its own facts.
I suggest, however, that the processing exaction is a far
more marked departure from what is usually regarded as
permissible in taxation than was the case in Nichols v.
Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531 (1927), in Hoeper v. Tax Commission of Wisconsin, 284 U. S. 206 (1931) or in Heiner v.
Donnan, 285 U. S. 312 (1932).
My tinle is fleeting and I must not pause to sum up the
arguinent I have made. I have come to the point at which
a consideration of delegation is the next logical step, and
that is to be dealt with effectively b'y my colleague, Mr.
Hale. But I do want to say just one final and somewhat
personal word.
I have tried very hard to argue this case calmly and
dispassionately, and without vehement attack upon
things which I cannot approve, and I have done it thus
because it seems to me that this is the best way in which
an advocate can discharge his duty to this Court.
But I do not want your Honors to think that my feelings are not involved, and that my emotions are not deeply
stirred. Indeed, may it please your Honor,s, I believe I
am standing here today to plead the cause of the America
I have loved; and I pray Almighty God that not in my
time may "the land of the regimented" be accepted as a
-. orthy substitute for "the land of the free."
•
rs. Edward R. Hale and Bennett Sanderson closed
twe a-gument for respondents.
Following .are excerpts from the respondents' brief, on
which were the two gentlemen last named, together with
Messrs. George Wharton Pepper, Humbert B. Powell,

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Brief for Respondents.

James A. Montgomery, Jr., J. Willison Smith, Jr., and

Edmund M. Toland:
Notwithstanding the reservation of the Tenth Amendment, this Act, by purchased control, forces upon agricultural communities within state lines a reduction of
production of agricultural commodities without regard to
the needs, desires or policies of the State affected. It
disregards even the policies against restraints on trade
announced by many of the States in formal enactment.
Indeed, there is a substantial question of the power of
the States themselves either to control agricultural activities and internal prices, or a fortiori, of their ability to
grant any such power to the Federal Government. The
ordinary legitimate pursuits and transactions of citizens
are, except in extraordinary circumstances, traditionally
free from control even of the States. New State Ice Co.
v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262; Tyson Bros. v. Banton, 273
U. S.418; Fairmont Creamery v. Minnesota, 274 U. S.1;
Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S.235; Van Winkle
v. Fred Meyer, Inc., 151 Ore. 455; 49 P. (2d) 1140, If
power to regulate the operation of farms and prices of
farm products is reserved to the people, as distinguished
from the States, it follows that such power may not be
delegated to the Federal Government except by an act of
the people, expressed in a constitutional amendment.
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U.. S.46, 90.
It is argued that there is something voluntary about
the crop reduction program which removes it from the
limitations upon the Federal Government. As a matter
of law we are unable to see any valid distinction arising
from the fact that in this Act the regulation of individual
activities within the States is accomplished by purchase
instead of penalty.
While economic compulsion is invoked in the original
Act to secure compliance from the producer, Congress has
not hesitated to employ legal compulsion where less

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Brief for Respondents.

297 U.S.

drastic methods were too slow. Legal compulsion has
thus been resorted to in the case of cotton (the commodity involved in the instant case), tobacco and potatoes.
The Bankhead-Cotton Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 598; The
Kerr Tobacco Act, 48 Stat. 1275; The Potato Act of
1935 (being Title II of "An Act to Amend the Agricul•tural Adjustment Act; and for other Purposes," -approved
August 24, 1935, Public No. 320, 74th Congress). Similar
power to exert legal compulsion upon the processor or
handler is granted in § 8 (3) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act as originally enacted. Such power has been
extended by the amendments of August 24, 1935. These
related Acts and provisions leave no doubt that the
original and continuing Congressional intention in the
Agricultural Adjustment Act is to impose the federal will
upon production of agricultural commodities. In the
light of such intentions and actS, the argument that control is voluntary becomes mere casuistry.
The regulatory measures of which the tax is an integral part cannot be justified as a regulation of interstate
commerce.
Neither the production of commodities by farmers nor
the manufacture of articles is subject to the control of
Congress. Chassaniolv. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584; Utah
Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Heisler .V.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Oliver Iron Mining
Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v.
Mississippi,257 U. S. 129; Kidd v. Pearson,128 U. S. 1.
Interstate commerce begins' only when articles are
delivered to a carrier to be transported. It comes to an
end when articles are delivered. Schechter Poultry Corp.
v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; Federal Compress Co. v.
McLean, 291 U. S. 17; United Leather Workers v. Herkert & Co., 265 U. S. 457.
Neither agriculture nor manufacturing "affects" or
"burdens" interstate commerce. In order to come within

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Brief for Respondents.

the interstate commerce power, the effect or burden of
activities not commerce must be direct and immediate.
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, supra; Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330;
Levering & Garrigues v. Morrin, 289 U. S. 103; United
Leather Workers v. Herkert & Co., 265 U. S. 457; United
Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344;
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251.
The processing and floor stocks taxes are levied in violation of the Fifth Amendment. The Act takes from one
class without compensation, and gives to members of
another. Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co.,
295 U. S. 330; Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555.
The taxing power is limited to taxes raised for public
as distinguished from private purposes. Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Cole v. LaGrange, 113 U. S.
1; Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; Lowell v. Boston,
111 Mass. 454.
The taxes are arbitrary and unreasonable. The Fifth
Amendment requires that a law (including a tax law) shall
not be unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious. Of tax
laws it requires a reasonable classification of objects of
taxation, a rate determined upon a reasonable basis, not
arbitrary orconfiscatory, and reasonableness in the time
when the tax becomes effective. The Fifth Amendment
also requires that the meafns selected to carry out one of
the granted powers shall have a real and substantial relation to the object sought to be attained. Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330, 347, note
5; Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S.
555, 589, note 19. See also Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502, 525; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312; Nichols
v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Hoeper v. Tax Commission,
284 U. S. 206.
Congress may not, under the guise of the taxing power,
assert a power not delegated to it by the Constitution.

OCIOBER TERM, 1935.
Closing Argument of the Solicitor General.

297 U.S.

Ulterior purposes may be accomplished under this power
only when they are truly incidental and necessary to a
real revenue measure. Cf. Railroad Retirement Board v.
Alton R. Co., supra; Hill v. W.allace, 259 U. S. 44; Child
Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20. United States v. Doremus,
249 U. S. 86 and McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27,
distinguished.
The taxpayer may contest the tax and question the
purpose thereof. Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447,
distinguished.
The floor stocks taxes are direct taxes and are void
because not apportioned.
The Act is invalid in that it delegates legislative power
to the Secretary of Agriculture. Panama Refining Co.
v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388; Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United
States, 295 U. S. 495; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649;
United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Hampton & Co.
v. United States, 276 U. S. 394. Williamsport Wire Rope
Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 551; Blair v. Oesterlein
Machine Co., 275 U. S. 220; Heiner V. Diamond Alkali
Co., 288 U. S. 502, and United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506, distinguished.
Section 21 (b) of the amendments is ineffective to validate taxes assessed prior to its passage. United States v.
Heinszen, 206 U. S. 370; Rafferty v. Smith, Bell & Co.,
257 U. S. 226; Tiaco v. Forbes, 228 U. S. 549; Charlotte
Harbor & N. Ry. Co. v. Welles, 260 U. S. 8; Graham &
Foster v. Goodcell, 282 U. e 409; Nichols v. Coolidge, 274
U. S. 531; Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142; Untermyer
v. Anderson, 276 U. S. 440.
Solicitor General Reed closed the argument:
May it please the Court, in the brief time remaining to
me to close the argument for the Government I should
like particularly to call to your Honors' attention the
problem of the welfare clause, the Tenth Amendment,
and whether or not this tax is for a public purpose.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Closing Argument. of the Solicitor General.

I do not know whether counsel for the respondents
mean to take the position that the welfare clause does give
a power of appropriation and a power to tax that can be
utilized for the purposes of relief and that can be utilized
for the purposes of making loans to agriculture through
the Farm Loan Corporation, and making loans to homeowners through the Home Owners Loan Corporation, or
can be used for making loans to agriculture, railroads,
industry, and banks, through the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation; or whether they take the position that the
welfare clause as such does not give a right to the Government to make loans. If we can snake a loan, can we also
make a grant, or if we can make a grant, can we make a
contract? The vital point of assault and defense upon the
Agricultural Adjustment Act seems to me not to be in the
Tenth Amendment, nor in whether this is for a public
purpose, but as to whether the Government has the power
to appropriate money which it raises by taxation for
the benefit of individuals in the States, or to carry
out contracts which the Government makes with those
individuals.
I The scope of the welfare clause has never been finally
decided by this Court. The Government's position is not
that it may take any action it pleases under the welfare
clause. Our contention is that the welfare clause gives
the right to tax and the right to appropriate, so long as
the appropriations are limited to the general welfare.
This interpretation of the welfare clause has met the
approval of those who participated in the ratifying conventions. It met the approval of George Washington
when he sent his message to Congress that agriculture
should be supported and benefited by Congressionkl appropriations. It met the approval of the early Congresses
when they used the power of giving bounties to the cod
fisheries of Massachusetts. ...
That is the interpretation of. the welfare clause which
has met the approval of commentators from Story to

OCTOBER TERM, -1935.
Closing Argument of the Solicitor General.

297 U.S.

Justice Miller. -With but one exception that I recall, they
have been fully settled in the view that the appropriating
power of Congress gave it the right to give money for
relief, to aid those who were in .distress, to lend where
money" was needed. And surely if it can take those
steps, it can also contract to help, where it is also for
the public welfare.
Is this present Act for the public welfare? I heard the
manifestation of deep emotion with which counsel spoke
of his interest in the preservation of the welfare of this
Government, and I respect his motives and the earnestness with which he presents them to this Court. But
there is another side to the argument, as to what is the
duty of the Government of the United States. Over and
over again counsel have used the words "control" and
"regiment." There is no control or regimentatioh in this
Act. An emergency existed, not of sudden creation, but
grown up over the years; lack of balance between different sections of this country, not geographical sections, but
different interests of the people of the United States.
This very corporation is an excellent example of benefits that have been secured from the taxing powers of this
Government-a textile mill which, with its competitors,
for more than a hundred years has received the bounties
which come and the benefits which flow from the protective tariff system. Surely they should be the last to object to a readjustment of the balance between agriculture
and industry.
The farmers of the United States comprise 30 per cent
of the population, men, women and children, bringing out
of the ground the natural resources which sustain the entire American commonwealth, and bringing from the
ground the very resource which this corporation uses in its
manufacture of textiles. There is no reason to begrudge
it the bounties it has received from the Government,
but on the other hand there is no reason why the Gov-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Closing Argument of the Solicitor General.

ernment of the United States, in the exercise of its power
under the general welfare clause, should not seek to
equalize the interests of agriculture and industry.
The Government sought to do that in the Act under
consideration. The tax which is criticized has relation
to the farmer and relation to thc consumer. It was
sought to equalize the benefits to the farmer, to give him
better prices, and not impose a tax so high that the consumer would pay more than the normal amount the
farmer was to receive. Therefore it is written that the
tax shall not exceed the difference between the selling
price of the commodity at the time the tax is placed
upon it and the normal purchasing power of that commodity in what has been taken as a normal period.
Is there any reason why this country should be denied
a right to help its citizens engaged in agriculture, which
is open to every other country? Of course, it is said
that we must act within the Constitution. Certainly we
must. But the interpretation that is to be gi,-en to the
Constitution must be viewed in the light of what is reasonable in the exercise of the power of Congress under the
general welfare clause. Every nation, from the British
Isles to Bechuanaland-we have cited the reports from
them in the appendix to our brief-has taken steps to
protect its agriculture.
We do not mean to say that that gives us a right so to
legislate in this country if it is contrary to the Constitution, but we do say that it is evidence of the reasonable
exercise of the power, if we have the power to provide
for the general welfare, and the power of appropriation
under that provision of the Constitution.
No one could be more firmly convinced of the necessity of keeping inviolate the separation of powers between
the'National Government andthe States than counsel for
the Government who appear here before this Court.

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Amici Curiae Briefs.

297 U.S.

This Court, however, has laid down the rules by which
we are to judge as to whether we are interfering with the
rights of a State.
The case of Massachusetts v. Mellon has been repeatedly called to your Honors' attention. We have used it
as an argument that the respondent cannot object in this
case to the way in which the money is spent. But that
is not the most important part of the case of Massachusetts v. Mellon at this moment. In that case the Court
said not only that the citizen of a State could not object,
but it said that "Probably, it would be sufficient to
point out that the powers of the State are not invaded,
since the statute imposes no obligation but simply extends an option which the State is free to accept or reject."
It was also said, in the case of Ellis v. United States,
206 U. S. 246, that the United States had the right even
to control, by criminal provision, the actions of employers
who employed people contrary to the laws of the United
States when there was a contract between the employer
and the United States.
We do not need to go so far in this case but we do say
that the right to contract is free from limitation, that
we have no more interfered with the rights of the States
in this case than we would have interfered with the rights
of the State in the case of Massachusetts v. Mellon if
that State had accepted the money which was offered.
With those 'views, we submit that the Agricultural
Adjustment Act, as it has been enacted and amended,
is fully withir the authority of the Constitution.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows:
Mr. Vernon A. Vrooman, on behalf of the League for
Economic Equality; Messrs. Frederic P. Lee arkd Donald
Kirkpatrick,on behalf o( the American Farm Bureau Federation; Mr. Clay R. Apple, on behalf of the National
Beet Growers Assn., and the Mountain States Beet Grow-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

ers Marketing Assn.; Mr. 0. 0. Haga, on behalf of the
Farmers National Grain Corp.; and Mr. Dan Moody, on
behalf of the Texas Agricultural Assn. ;-supporting the
validity of the Act.
Messrs. Nathan L. Miller; John W. Davis, and William
R. Perkins, on behalf of Hygrade Food Products Corp., P.
Lorillard Co., and National Biscuit Co.; Messrs. Malcolm
Donald and Edward E. Elder, on behalf of the National
Association of Cotton Manufacturers; Messrs. Kingman
Brewster, James S. Y. Ivins, Percy W. Phillips,0. R. Folsom-Jones, Richard B. Barker, and John W. Cutler; Mr.
John E. Hughes, on behalf of American Nut Co., Inc.,
et al.; Messrs. Leo P. Harlow and Al. Philip Kane, on
behalf of Farmers' Independence Council of America;
Mr. Wm. B. Bodine, on behalf of Berks Packing Co., Inc.,
et al.; and Messrs. Charles B. Rugg, Frank J. Morley,
Thomas Nelson Perkins, and Warren F. Farr, on behalf
of General Mills, Inc., et al. ;-challenging the validity of
the Act.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case we must determine whether certain provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, 1933,1 conflict
with the Federal Constitution.
Title I of the statute is captioned "Agricultural Adjustment." Section 1 recites that an economic emergency
has arisen, due to disparity between the prices of agricultural and other commodities, with consequent destruction
of farmers' purchasing power and breakdown in orderly
exchange, which, in turn, have affected transactions in
agricultural commodities with a national public interest
and burdened and obstructed the normal currents of commerce, calling for the enactment of legislation.
'May 12, 1933, c. 25, 48 Stat. 31.

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Section 2 declares it to be the policy of Congress:
"To establish and maintain such balance between the
production and consumption of agricultural commodities,
and such marketing conditions therefoi-, as willreestablish
prices to farmers at a level that -will give agricultural
commodities 2 a purchasing power with respect to articles
that farmers buy, equivalent to the purchasing power of
agricultural commodities in the base period."
The base period, in the case of cotton, and all other,
commodities except tobacco, is designated as that between
August, 1909, and July, 1914.
The further policies announced are an approach to the
desired equality by gradual correction of present inequalities "at as rapid a rate as is deemed feasible in view of
the current consumptive demand in domestic and foreign
markets," and the protection of consumers' interest by
readjusting farm production at such level as will not increase the percentage of the consumers' retail expenditures
for agricultural commodities or products derived therefrom, which is returned to the farmer, above the percentage returned to him in the base period.
Section 8 provides, amongst other things, that "In
order to effectuate the declared Policy," the Secretary of
Agriculture shall have power
"(1) To provide for reduction in the acreage or reduction in the production for market, or both, of any basic
agricultural commodity, through agreements with producers or by other voluntary methods, and to provide for
rental or benefit payments in connection therewith or
upon that part of the production of any basic agricultural
commodity required for domestic consumption, in such
amounts as the Secretary deems fair and reasonable, to
'Section 11 denominates wheat, cotton, field corn, hogs, rice, tobacco, and milk and its products, "basic agricultural commodities," to
which the act is to apply. Others have been added by later legislation.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

be paid out of any moneys available for such payments ....
.
"(2) To enter into marketing agreements with processors, associations of producers, and others engaged in the
handling, in the current of intel-state or foreign commerce
of any agricultural commodity or product thereof, after
due. notice and opportunity for hearing to interested
parties ...
"(3) To issue licenses permitting processors, associations of producers, and others to engage in the handling,
in the current of interstate or foreign commerce, of any
agricultural commodity or product thereof, or any competing commOdity or product thereof."
It will be observed that the Secretary is not required,
but is permitted, if, in his uncontrolled judgment, the policy of the act will so be promoted, to make agreements
with individual farmers for a reduction of acreage or production upon such terms as he may think fair and reasonable.
Section 9 (a) enacts:
"To obtain revenue for extraordinary expenses incurred
by reason of the national economic emergency, there shall
be levied processing taxes as hereinafter provided. When
the Secretary of Agriculture determines that rental orbenefit payments are to be made with respect to any basic
agricultural commodity, he shall proclaim such determination, and a processing tax shall be in effect with respect
to such commodity from the beginning of the marketing
year therefor next following the date of such proclamation. The processing tax shall be levied, assessed, and
collected upon the first domestic processing of the commodity, whether of domestic production or imported, and
shall be paid by the processor. ... 1'
The Secretary may from time to time, if he finds it
necessary for the effectuation of the policy of the act, readjust the amount of the exaction to meet the require-

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

ments of subsection (b). The tax is to terminate at the
end of any marketing year if the rental or benefit payments are iscontinued by the Secretary with the expiration of that year.
Section 9 (b) fixes the tax "at such rate as equals the
difference between the current average farm price for the
commodity and the fair exchange value," with power in
the Secretary, after investigation, notice, and hearing, to
readjust the tax so as to prevent the accumulation of surplus stocks and depression of farm prices.
Section 9 (c) directs that the fair exchange value of a
commodity shall be such a price as will give that commodity the same purchasing power with respect to articles
farmers buy as it had during the base period and that the
fair exchange, value and the current average farm price
of a commodity shall be ascertained by the Secretary from
available statistics in his department.
Section 12 (a) appropriates $100,000,000 "to be available to the Secretary of Agriculture for administrative
expenses under this title and for rental and benefit
payments . . ."; and § 12 (b) appropriates the proceeds
derived from all taxes imposed under the act "to be available to the Secretary of Agriculture for expansion of markets and removal of surplus agricultural products . . .
administrative expenses, rental and benefit payments,
and refunds on taxes."
Section 15 (d) permits the Secretary, upon certain conditions, to impose compensating taxes on commodities in
competition' with those subject to the processing tax.
By § 16 a floor tax is imposed upon the sale or other
disposition of any article processed wholly or in chief
value from any commodity with respect to which a processing tax is to be levied in amount equivalent to that of
the processing tax which would be payable with respect
to the commodity from which the article is processed if the
processing had occurred on the date when the processing
tax becomes effective.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

On July 14, 1933, the Secretary of Agriculture, with
the approval of the President, proclaimed that he had
determined rental and benefit payments should be made
with respect to cotton; that the marketing year for that
commodity was to begin August 1, 1933; and calculated
and fixed the rates of processing and floor taxes on cotton
in accordance with the terms of the act.
The United States presented a claim to the respondents
as receivers of the Hoosac Mills Corporation for processing
and floor taxes on cotton levied under §§ 9 and 16 of the
act. The receivers recommended that the claim be disallowed. The District Court found the taxes valid and
ordered them paid.3 Upon appeal the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the order. The judgment under review
was entered prior to the adoption of the amending act of
August 24, 1935,' and we are therefore concerned only
with the original act.
First. At the outset the United States contends that
the respondents have no standing to question the validity
of the tax. The position is that the act is merely a revenue measure levying an excise upon the activity of processing cotton,-a proper subject for the imposition of such
,a tax,-the proceeds of which go into the federal treasury
and thus become available for appropriation for any purpose. It is said that what the respondents are endeavoring to do is to challenge the intended use of the money
pursuant to Congressional appropriation when, by confession, that money will have become the property of the
Government and the taxpayer will no longer have any interest in it. Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, is
claimed to foreclose litigation by the respondents or other
taxpayers, as such, looking to restraint of the expenditure
of government funds. That case might be an authority
'Franklin Process Co. v. Hoosac Mills Corp., 8 F. Supp. 552.
'Butler v. United States, 78 F. (2d) 1.
5 49 Stat. 750, c. 641.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

in the petitioners' favor if we were here concerned merely
with a suit by a taxpayer to restrain the expenditure of
the public moneys. It was there held that a taxpayer
of the United States may not question expenditures from
its treasury on the ground that the alleged unlawful diversion will deplete the public funds and thus increase the
burden of future taxation. Obviously the asserted interest of a taxpayer in the federal government's funds and
the supposed- increase of the future burden of taxation is
minute and indeterminable. But here the respondents
who are called upon to pay moneys as taxes, resist the
exaction'as a step in an unauthorized plan. This circumstance clearly distinguishes the case. The Gqvernment in
substance and effect asks us to separate the Agricultural
Adjustment Act into two statutes, the one levying an excise on processors of certain commodities, the other appropriating the' public moneys independently of the first.
Passing the novel suggestion that two statutes enacted as
parts of a single scheme should be tested as if they were
distinct and unrelated, we think the legislation now before
us is not susceptible of such separation and treatment.
The tax can only be sustained by ignoring th'e avowed
purpose and operation of the act, and holding it a measure
merely laying an excise upon processors to raise revenue
for the support of government. Beyond cavil the sole
to restore the purchasing powerobject of the legislation "is
of agricultural products to a parity with that prevailing
in an earlier day; to take money from the processor and
bestow it upon farmers 6 who will reduce their acreage for
U. S. Department of Agriculture, Achieving A Balanced Agriculture, p. 38: "Farmers should not forget that all the processing tax
money ends up in their own pockets. Even in those cases where
they pay part of the tax, they get it all. back. Every dollar oolldcted
in processing taxes goes to the farmer in benefit payments."
U. S. Dept: of Agriculture, The Processing Tax, p. 1: "Proceeds
of processing taxes are passed to farmers as benefit payments."

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

the accomplishment of the proposed end, and, meanwhile
to aid these farmers during the period required to bring
the prices of their crops to the desired level.
The tax plays an indispensable- part in the plan of regulation. As stated by the Agricultural Adjustment Administrator, it is" the heart of the law "; a means of " accomplishing one or both of two things intended to help
farmers attain parity prices and purchasing power." ' A
tax automatically goes into effect for a commodity when
the Secretary of Agriculture determines that rental or
benefit payments are to be made for reduction of production of that commodity. The tax is to cease when rental
or benefit payments cease. The rate is fixed with the purpose of bringing about crop-reduction and price-raising.
It is to equal the difference between the "current average farm price" and "fair exchange value." It may be
altered to such amount as will prevent accumulation of
surplus stocks. If the Secretary finds the policy of the
act will not be promoted by the levy of the tax for a
given commodity, he may exempt it. (§ 11.) The whole
revenue from the levy is appropriated in aid of crop control; none of it is made available for general governmental
use. The entire agricultural adjustment program embodied in Title I of the act is to become inoperative when, in
the judgment of the President, the national economic
emergency ends; and as to any commodity he may terminate the provisions of the law, if he finds them no longer
requisite to carrying out the declared policy with respect
to such commodity. (§ 13.)
The statute not only avows an aim foreign to the procurement of revenue for the support of government, but
by its operation shows the exaction laid upon processors
to be the necessary means for the intended control of
agricultural production.
'U. S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Adjustment, p. 9

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

In these aspects the tax, so-called, closely resembles
that laid by the Act of August 3, 1882, entitled "An Act
to Regulate Immigration," which came before this court
in the Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580. The statute
directed that there should be levied, collected and paid
a duty of fifty cents for each alien passenger who should
come by vessel from a foreign port to one in the United
States. Payment was to be made to the collector of the
port by the master, owner, consignee or agent of the ship;
the money was to be paid into the Treasury, was to be
called the immigrant fund, and to be used by the Secretary of the Treasury to defray the expense of regulating
immigration, for the care of immigrants and relieving
Lhose in distress, and for the expenses of effectuating the
act.
Various objections to the act were presented. In answering them the court said (p. 595):
"But the true answer to all these objections is that the
power exercised in this instance is not the taxing power.
The burden imposed on the ship owner by this statute is
the mere incident of the regulation of commerce-of that
branch of foreign commerce which is involved in immigration, . . ."
"It is true not much is said about protecting the ship
owner. But he is the man who reaps the profit from the
transaction, . . . The sum demanded of him is not, therefore, strictly speaking, a tax or duty within the meaning
of the Constitution. The money thus raised, though paid
into the Treasury, is appropriated in advance to the uses
of the statute, and does not go to the general support of
the government."
While there the exaction was sustained as an appropriate element in a plan within the power of Congress "to
regulate commerce with foreign nations," no question was
made of the standing of the shipowner to raise the ques-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the validity of the scheme and consequently of
the exaction which was an incident of it.
It is inaccurate and misleading to speak of the exaction
from processors prescribed by the challenged act as a tax,
or to say that as a tax it is subject to no infirmity. A tax,
in the general understanding of the term, and as used in
the Constitution, signifies an exaction for the §upport of
the Government. The word has never been thought to
connote the expropriation of money from one group for
the benefit of another. We may concede that the latter
sort of imposition is constitutional when imposed to effectuate regulation of .a matter in which both groups are
interested and in respect of which there is a power of legislative regulation. But manifestly no justification for it
can be found unless as an integral part of such regulation.
The exaction cannot be wrested out of its setting, denominated an excise for raising revenue and legalized by ignoring its purpose as a mere instrumentality for bringing
about a desired end. To do this would be to shut our
eyes to what all others than we can see and understand.
Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20, 37.
We conclude that the act is one regulating agricultural
production; that the tax is a mere incident of such regulation and that the respondents have standing to challenge
the legality of the exaction.
It does not follow that as the act is not an exertion of the
taxing power and the exaction not a true tax, the statute
is void or the exaction uncollectible. For, to paraphrase
what was said in the Head Money Cases (supra), p. 596,
if this is an expedient regulation by Congress, of a subject
within one of its granted powers, "and the end to be
attained is one falling within that power, the act is not
void, because, within a loose and more extended sense
than was used in the Constitution," the exaction is called
a tax.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Second. The Government asserts that even if the respondents may question the propriety of the appropriation embodied in the statute their attack must fail because
Article I, § 8 of the Constitution authorizes the contemplated expenditure of the funds raised by the tax.
This contention presents the great and the controlling
question in the case.8 We approach its decision with a
sense of our grave responsibility to render judgment in
accordance with the principles established for the governance of all three branches of the Government.
There should be no misunderstanding as to the function of this court in such a case. It is sometimes said that
the c6urt assumes a power to overrule or control the action
of the people's representatives. This is a misconception.
The Constitution is the supreme law of the land ordained
and established by the people. All legislation must conform to the principles it lays down. When an act of Congress is appropriately challenged in the courts as not
conforming to the constitutional mandate the judicial
branch of the Government has only one duty,-to lay the
article of the Constitution which is invoked beside the
statute which is challenged aid to decide whether the
latter squares with the former. All the court does, or can
do, is to announce its considered judgment upon the ques' Other questions were presented and argued by counsel, but we
do not consider or decide them. The respondents insist that the
act in numerous respects delegates legislative power to the executive
contrary to the principles announced in Panama Refining Co. v.
Ryah, 293 U. S. 388, and Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S.
495; that this unlawful delegation is not cured by the amending act
of August 24, 1935; that the exaction is in violation of the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment since the legislation takes their
property for a private use; that the floor tax is a direct tax and
therefore void for lack of apportionment amongst the states, as
required by Article I, § 9; and that the processing tax is wanting
in uniformity and so violates Article I, § 8, clause one, of the

Constitution.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

tion. The only power it has, if such it may be called, is
the power of judgment. This court neither approves nor
condemns any legislative policy. Its delicate and difficult
office is to ascertain and declare whether the legislation is
in accordance with, or in -contravention of, the provisions
of the Constitution; and, having done that, its duty ends.,
The question is not what power. the Federal Government ought to have but what powers in fact have been
given by the people. It hardly seems necessary to reiterate that oursis a dual form of government; that in every
state there are two governments,-the state and the
United States. Each State has all governmental powers
save such as the people, by their Constitution, have conferred upon the United States, denied to the States, or
reserved to themselves. The federal union is a government of delegated powers. It has only such as are expressly conferred upon it and such as are reasonably to be
implied from those granted. In this respect we differ
radically from nations where all legislative power, without
restriction or limitation, is vested in a parliament or other
legislative body subject to no restrictions except the discretion of its members.
Article I, § 8, of the Constitution vests sundry powers
in the Congress. But two of its clauses have any bearing
upon the validity of the statute under review.
The third clause endows the Congress with power "to
regulate Commerce . . . among the several States." Despite a reference in its first section to a burden upon, and
an obstruction of the normal currents of commerce, the
act under review does not purport to regulate transactions in interstate or foreign-"' commerce. Its stated purCompare Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, 544;
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488.
" The enactment of protective tariff laws has its basis in the power
to regulate foreign commerce. See Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois v. United States, 289 U. S. 48, 58.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

pose is the control of agricultural production, a purely
local activity, in an effort to raise the prices paid the
farmer. Indeed, the Government does not attempt to
uphold the validity of the act on the basis of the commerce clause, which, for the purpose of the present case,
may be put aside as irrelevant.
The clause thought to authorize the legislation,--the
first,--confers upon the Congress power "to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States. . . ." It is not contended
that this provision grants power to regulate agricultural
production upon the theory that such legislation would
promote the general welfare. The Government concedes
that the phrase "to provide for the general welfare" qualifies the power "to lay and collect taxes." The view that
the clause grants power to provide for the general welfare, independently of the taxing power, has never been
authoritatively accepted. Mr. Justice Story points out
that if it were adopted "it is obvious that under color of
the generality of the words, to 'provide for the common
defence and general welfare,' the government of the
United States is, in reality, a government of general and
unlimited powers, notwithstanding the subsequent enumeration of specific powers." "" The true construction undoubtedly is that the only thing granted is the power to
tax for the purpose of providing funds for payment of the
nation's debts and making provision for the general welfare.
Nevertheless the Government asserts that warrant is
found in this clause for the adoption of the Agricultural
Adjustment Act. The argument is that Congress may appropriate and authorize the spending of moneys for the
"general welfare"; that the phrase should be liberally
Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States,

oth ed., Vol. I, § 907.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

construed to cover anything conducive to national welfare; that decision as to what will promote such welfare
rests with Congress alone, and the courts may not review
its determination; and finally that the appropriation
under attack was in fact for the general welfare of the
United States.
The Congress is expressly empowered to lay taxes to
provide for the general welfare. Funds in the Treasury
as a result of taxation may be expended only through appropriation. (Art. I, § 9, cl. 7.) They can never accomplish the objects for..which they were collected unless the
power to appropriate is as broad as the power to tax. The
necessary implication from the terms of the grant is that
the public funds may be appropriated "to provide for the
general welfare of the United States." These words cannot be meaningless, else they would not have been used.
The conclusion must be that they were intended to limit
and define the granted power to raise and to expend
money. How shall they be construed to effectuate the
intent of the instrument?
Since the foundation of the Nation sharp differences of
opinion have persisted as to the true interpretation of the
phrase. Madison asserted it amourted to no more than
a reference to the other powers enumerated in the subsequent clauses of the same section; that, as the United
States is a government of limited and enumerated powers,
the grant of power to tax and spend for the general national welfare must be confined to the enumerated legislative fields committed to the Congress. In this view the
phrase is mere tautology, for taxation and appropriation
are or may be necessary incidents of the exercise of any of
the enumerated legislative powers. Hamilton, on the
other hand, maintained the clause confers a power separate and distinct from those later enumerated, is not restricted in meaning by the grant of them, and Congress
consequently has a substantive power to tax and to ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

propriate, liinited only by the requirement that it shall
be exercised to provide for the general welfare of the
United States. Each contention has had the support of
those whose views are entitled to weight. This court has
noticed the question, but has never found it necessary to
decide which is the true construction. Mr. Justice Story,
in his Commentaries, espouses the Hamiltonian position.' 2
We shall not review the writings of public men and commentators or discuss the legislative practice. Study of
all these leads us to conclude that the reading advocated
by Mr. Justice Story is the correct one. While, therefore,
the power to tax is not unlimited, its confines are set in
the clause which confers it, and not in those of § 8
which bestow and define the legislative powers of' the
Congress. It results that the power of Congress to authorize expenditure of public moneys for public purposes
is not limited by the direct grants of legislative power
found in the Constitution.
But the adoption of the broader construction leaves the
power to spend subject to limitations.
As Story says:
"The Constitution was, from its very origin, contemplated to be the frame of a national government, of special and enumerated powers, and not of general and
unlimited powers." 13
Again he says:
"A power to lay taxes for the common defence and general welfare of the United States is not in common sense
a general power. It is limited to those objects. It cannot
constitutionally transcend them." 14
That the qualifying phrase must be given effect all
advocates of broad construction'admit. Hamilton, in his
'Loc. cit. Chapter XIV, passim.

"Loc. cit. § 909.
"Loc. cit § 922.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
I

Opinion of the Court.

well known Report on Manufactures, states that the purpose must be "general, and not local." ", Monroe, an
advocate of Hamilton's doctrine, wrote: "Have Congress
a right to raise and appropriate the money to any and to
every purpose according to their will and pleasure?, They
certainly have not." ", Story says that if the tax be not
proposed for the common defence or general welfare, but
for other objects wholly extraneous, it would be wholly
indefensible upon constitutional principles."
And he
makes it clear that the powers of taxation and appropriation extend only to matters of national, as distinguished
from local welfare.
As elsewhere throughout the Constitution the section in
question lays down principles which control the use of the
power, and does not attempt meticulous or detailed directions. Every presumption is to be indulged in favor of
faithful compliance by Congress with the mandates of the
fundamental law. Courts are reluctant to adjudge any
statute in contravention of them. But, under our frame
of government, no other place is provided where the citizen may be heard to urge that the law fails to conform to
the limits set upon the use of a granted power. When
such a contention comes here we nattrally require a showing that by no reasonable possibility can the challenged
legislation fall within the wide range of discretion permitted to the Congress. How great is the extent of that
range, when the subject is the promotion of the general
welfare of the United States, we hardly need remark. But,
despite the breadth of the legislative discretion, our duty
to hear and to render judgment remains. If the statute
plainly violates the stated principle of the Constitution
we must so declare.
'Works, Vol. III, p. 250.
Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, Vol. II, p. 167.
"Loc. cit. p. 673.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

We are not now required to ascertain the scope of the
phrase "general welfare of the United -States" or to determine whether an appropriation in aid of agriculture
falls within it. Wholly apart from that question, another
principle embedded in our Constitution prohibits the enforcement of the Agricultural Adjustment Act. The act
invades the reserved rights of the states. It is a statutory
plan to regulate and control agricultural production, a
matter beyond the powers delegated to the federal government. The tax, the appropriation of the funds raised,
and the direction for their disbursement, are but parts of
the plan. They are but means to an unconstitutional
end.
From the accepted doctrine that the United States is a
government of delegated powers, it follows that those not
expressly granted, or reasonably to be implied from such
as are conferred, are reserved to the states or to the people.
To forestall any suggestion to the contrary, the Tenth
Amendment was adopted. 8 The same proposition, otherwise stated, is that powers not granted are prohibited.
None to regulate agricultural production is given, and
therefore legislation by Congress for that purpose is forbidden.
It is an established principle that the attainment of a
prohibited end may not be accomplished under the pretext, of the exertion of powers which are granted.
"Should Congress, in the execution of its powers,
adopt measures which are prohibited by the constitution;
or should Congress, under the pretext of executing its
powers, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects not
intrusted to the government; it would become the painful
duty of this tribunal, should a case requiring such a deThe Tenth Amendment declares: "The powers not delegated
to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the
States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the people."

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

cision come before it, to say that such an act was not
the law of the land." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 423.
"Congress cannot, linder the pretext of executing delegated power, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects
not entrusted to the Federal Governiment. And we accept
as established doctrine that any provision of an act of
Congress ostensibly enacted under power granted by the
Constitution, not naturally and reasonably adapted to the
effective exercise of such power but solely to the achievement of something plainly within power reserved to the
States, is invalid and cannot be enforced." Linder v.
United States, 268 U. S. 5, 17.
These principles are as applicable to the power to lay
taxes as to any other federal power. Said the court, in
McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, 421:
"Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope
of the constitution, and all means which are appropriate,
which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the
constitution, are constitutional."
The power of taxation, which is expressly granted, may,
of course, be adopted as a means to carry into operation
another power also expressly granted. But resort to tje
taxing power to effectuate an end which is not legitimate,
not within the scope of the Constitution, is obviously
inadmissible.
"Congress is not empowered to tax for those purposes
which are within the exclusive province of the States."
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 199.
"There are, indeed, certain virtual limitations, arising
from the principles of the Constitution itself. It would
undoubtedly be an abuse of the [taxing] power if so exercised as to impair the separate existence and independent
self-government of the States or if exercised for ends

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

inconsistent with the limited grants of power in the Constitution." Veazie Bank y. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 541.
In the Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20, and in Hill
v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, this court had before it statutes
which purported to be taxing measures. But their purpose was found to be to regulate the conduct of manufacturing and trading, not in interstate commerce, but in
the states,-matters not within any power conferred upon
Congress by the Constitution-and the levy of the tax a
means to force compliance. The court held this was not a
constitutional use, but an unconstitutional abuse of the
power to tax. In Linder v. United States, supra, we held
that the power to tax could not justify the. regulation of
the practice*of a profession, under the -pretext of raising
revenue. In United States v. Constantine, 296 U.. S. 287,
we declared that Congress could not, in the guise of a tax,
impose sanctions for violation of state law respecting the
local sale of liquor. These decisions demonstrate that
Congress could not, under the pretext of raising revenue,
lay ,atax on processors who refuse to pay a certain price
for cotton, and exempt those who agree so to do, with the
purpose of benefiting producers.
Third. If the taxing power may not be used as the instrument to enforce a regulation of matters of state concern with respect to which the Congress has no authority
to interfere, may it, as in the present case, be employed
to raise the money necessary to purchase a compliance
which the Congress is powerless to command? The Government asserts that whatever might be said against the
validity of the plan if compulsory, it is constitutionally
sound because the end is accomplished by voluntary cooperation. There are two sufficient answers to the contention. The regulation is not in fact voluntary. The
farmer, of course, may refuse to comply, but the price of
such refusal is the loss of benefits. The amount offered
is intended to be sufficient to exert pressure on him to

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

agree to the proposed regulation. 9 The power to confer
or withhold unlimited benefits is the power to coerce or
destroy. If the cotton grower elects not to accept the
benefits, he will receive less for his crops; those who receive payments will be able to undersell him. The result
may well be financial ruin. The coercive purpose and intent of the statute is not obscured by the fact that it has
not been perfectly successful. It is pointed out that, because there still remained a minority whom the re ital
and benefit payments were insufficient to induce to surrender their independence of action, the Congress has
gone further and, in the Bankhead Cotton Act, used the
taxing power in a more directly minatory fashion to compel submission. This progression only serves more fully
to expose the coercive purpose of the so-called tax imposed
by the present act. It is clear that the Department of
Agriculture has properly described the plan as one to
keep a non-cobperating minority in line. This is coercion
by economic pressure. The asserted power of choice is
illusory.
In Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 271 U. S.
583, a state act was considered which provided for supervision and regulation of transportation for hire by automobile on the public highways. Certificates of convenience
and necessity were to be obtained by persons desiring
to use the highways for this purpose. The regulatory
"U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Agricultural Adjustment, p. 9. "Experience of cooperative associations and other groups has shown
that without such Government support, the efforts of the farmers
to band together to control the amount of their product sent to
market are nearly always brought to nothing. Almost always, under
such circumstances, there has been a noncooperating minority, which,
refusing to go along with the rest, has stayed on the outside and
tried to benefit from the sacrifices the majority has made. . . . It
is to keep this noncooperating minority in line, or at least prevent
it from doing harm to the majority, that the power of the Government has been marshaled behind the adjustment programs."

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

commission required that a private contract carrier should
secure such a certificate as a condition of its operation.
The effect of the commission's action was to transmute the
private carrier into a public carrier. In other words, the
privilege of using the highways as a private carrier for
compensation was conditioned upon his dedicating his
property to the quasi-public use of public transportation.
While holding that the private carrier was not obliged to
submit- himself to the conditi6n, the commission denied
him the privilege of using the highways if he, did not do
so. The argument was, as here, that the carrier had a
free choice. This court said, in holding the act as construed unconstitutional:
"If so, constitutional guaranties, so carefully safeguarded against direct assault, are open to destruction by
the indirect but no less effective process of requiring a
surrender, which, though, in form voluntary, in fact lacks
none of the elements of compulsion. Having regard to
form alone, the act here is an offer to the private carrier
of a privilege, which the state may grant or deny, upon a
condition, which the carrier is free to accept or reject. In
reality, the carrier is given- no choice, except a choice between the rock and the whirlpool,-an option to forego a
privilege which may be vital to his livelihood or submit
to a requirement which may constitute an intolerable burden." (p. 593.)
But if the plan were one for purely voluntary co-operation it would stand no better so far as federal power is
concerned. At best it is a scheme for purchasing with
federal funds submission to federal regulation of a subject
reserved to the states.
It -is said that Congress has the undoubted right to appropriate money to executive officers for expenditure
under contracts between the government and individuals;
that much of the total expenditures is so made. But appropriations and expenditures under contracts for proper

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

governmental purposes cannot justify contracts which are
not within federal power. And contracts for the reduction of acreage and the control of production are outside
the range of that power. An appropriation to be expended by the United States under contracts calling for
violation of a state law clearly would offend the Constitution. Is a statute less objectionable which authorizes
expenditure of federal moneys to induce action in a field
in which the United States has no power o intermeddle?
The Congress cannot invade state jurisdiction to compel
individual action; no more can it purchase such action.
We are referred to numerous types of federal appropriation which have been made in the past, and it is asserted
no question has been raised as to their validity. We need
not stop to examine or consider them. As was said in
Massachusetts v. Mellon, supra (p. 487):
".... as an examination of the acts of Congress will
disclose, a large number of statutes appropriating or involving the expenditure of moneys for non-federal purposes have been enacted and carried into effect."
As the opinion points out, such expenditures have not
been challenged because no remedy was open for testing
their constitutionality in the courts.
We are not here concerned with a conditional appropriation of money, nor with a provision that if certain conditions are not complied with the appropriation shall no
longer be available. By the Agricultural Adjustment Act
the amount of the tax is appropriated to be expended only
in payment under contracts whereby the parties bind
themselves to regulation by the Federal Government.
There is an obvious difference between a statute stating
the conditions upon which moneys shall be expended and
one effective only upon assumption of a contractual obligation to submit to a regulation Which, otherwise could
not be enforced. Man.y examples pointing the distinction
might be cited. We are referrecLto appropriations in aid

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of education, and it is said that no one has doubted the
power of Congress to stipulate the sort of education for
which money shall be expended. But an appropriation to
an educational institution which by its terms is to become
available only if the beneficiary enters into a contract to
teach doctrines subversive of the Constitution is clearly
bad. An affirmance of the authority of Congress so to
condition the expenditure of an appropriation would tend
to nullify all constitutional limitations upon legislative
power.
But it is said that there is a wide difference in another
respect, between compulsory regulation of the local affairs
of a state's citizens and the mere making of a contract
relating to their conduct; that, if any state objects, it may
declare the contract void and thus prevent those under the
state's jurisdiction from complying with its terms. The
argument is plainly fallacious. The United States can
make the contract only if the federal power to tax and to
appropriate reaches the subject matter of the contract: If
this does reach the subject matter, its exertion cannot be
displaced by state action. To say otherwise is to deny the
supremacy of the laws of the United States; to make them
subordinate to those of a State. This would reverse the
cardinal principle embodied in the Constitution and substitute one which declares that Congress may only effectively legislate as to matters within federal competence
when the States do not dissent.
Congress has no power to enforce its commands on the
farmer to the ends sought by the Agricultural Adjustment
Act. It must follow that it may not indirectly accomplish
those ends by taxing and spending to purchase compliance. The Constitution and the entire plan of our government negative any such use of the power to tax and to
spend as the act undertakes to authorize. It does not
help to declare that local conditions throughout the nation have created A Aituation__of national concern; for this

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

is but to say that whenever there is a widespread similarity of local conditions, Congress may ignore constitutional limitations upon its own powers and usurp those
reserved to the states. If, in lieu of compulsory regulation of subjects within the states' reserved jurisdiction,
which is prohibited, the Congress could invoke the taxing
and spending power as a means to accomplish the same
end, clause 1 of § 8 of Article I would become the
instrument for total subversion of the governmental
powers reserved to the individual states.
If the act before us is a proper exercise of the federal
taxing power, evidently the regulation of all industry
throughout the United States may be accomplished by
similar exercises of the same power. It would be possible
to exact money from one branch of an industry and pay it
to another branch in every field of activity which lies
within the province of the states. The mere threat of
such a procedure might well induce the surrender of
rights and the compliance with federal regulation as the
price of continuance in business. A few instances will
illustrate the thought.
Let us suppose Congress should determine that the
farmer, the miner or some other producer of raw materials is receiving too much for his products, with consequent depression of the processing industry and idleness
of its employes. Though, by confession, there is no
power vested in Congress to compel by statute a lowering
of the prices of the raw material, the same result might be
accomplished, if the questioned act be- valid, by taxing
the producer upon his output and appropriating the proceeds to the processors, either with or without conditions
imposed as the consideration for payment of the subsidy.
We have held in Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United
States, 295 U. S. 495, that Congress has no power to regulate wages and hours of labor in a local business. If the
petitioner is right, this very end may be accomplished by

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

appropriating money to be paid to employers from the
federal treasury under contracts whereby they agree to
comply with certain standards fixed by federal law or by
contract.
Should Congress ascertain that sugar refiners are not
receiving a fair profit, and that this is detrimental to the
entire industry, and in turn has its repefeussions in trade
and commerce generally, it might, in analogy to the present law, impose an excise of two cents a pound on every
sale of the commodity and pass the funds collected to such
refiners, and such only, as will agree to maintain a certain
price.
Assume that too many shoes are being manufactured
throughout the nation; that the market is saturated, the
price depressed, the factories running half-time, the employes suffering. Upon the principle of the statute in
question Congress might'authorize the Secretary of Commerce to enter,,into contracts with shoe manufacturers
providing that each shall reduce his output and that the
United States will pay him a fixed sum proportioned to
such reduction, the money to make the payments to be
raised by a tax on all retail shoe dealers or their customers.
Suppose that there are too many garment workers in
the large cities; that this results in dislocation of the
economic balance. Upon the principle contended for an
excise might be laid on the manufacture of all garments
manufactured and the proceeds paid to those manufacturers who agree to remove their plants to cities having
not more than a hundred thousand population. Thus,
through the asserted power of taxation, the federal government, against the will of individual states, might completely redistribute the industrial population.
A possible result of sustaining the claimed federal power
would be that every business group which thought itself
under-privileged might demand that a tax be laid on its
vendors or vendees, the proceeds to be appropriated to the
redress of its deficiency of income.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

These illustrations are given, not to suggest that any
of the purposes mentioned are unworthy, but to demonstrate the scope of the principle for which the Government contends; to test the principle by its applications;
to point out that, by the exercise of the asserted power,
Congress would, in effect, under the pretext- of exercising
the taxing power, in reality accomplish prohibited ends.
It cannot be said that they envisage improbable legislation. The supposed cases are no more improbable than
would the present act have been deemed a few years
ago.

Until recently no suggestion of the existence of any such
power in the Federal Government has been advanced.
The expressions of the framers of the Constitution, the
decisions of this court interpreting that instrument, and
the writings of great commentators will be searched in
vain for any suggestion that there exists in the clause under discussion or elsewhere in the ConStitution, the
authority whereby every provision and every fair implication from that instrument may be subverted, the independence of the individual states obliterated, and the
United States converted into a central government- exercising uncontrolled police power in every state of the
Union, superseding all local control or regulation of the
affairs or concerns of the states.

Hamilton himself, the leading advocate of broad interpretation of the power to tax and to appropriate for the
general welfare, never suggested that any power granted
by the Constitution could be used for the destruction of
local self-government in the states. Story countenances
no such doctrine. It seems never to have occurred to
them, or to those who have agreed with them, that the general welfare of the United States, (which has aptly been
termed "an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible States,") might be served by obliterating the constituent members of the Union. But to this fatal conclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Stone, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

sion the doctrine contended for would inevitably lead.
And its sole premise is that, though the makers of the
Constitution, in erecting the federal government, intended,
sedulously to limit and define its powers, so as to reserve
to the states and the people sovereign power, to be Wielded
by the states and their citizens and not to be invaded by
the United States, they nevertheless by a single clause
gave power to the Congress to tear down the barriers, to
invade the states' jurisdiction, and to become a parliament
of the whole people, subject to no restrictions save such as
are self-imposed. The argument when seen in its true
character and in the light of its inevitable results must be
rejected.
Since, as we have pointed out, there was no power in
the Congress to impose the contested exaction, it could
not lawfully ratify or confirm what an executive officer
had done in that regard. Consequently the Act of 1935
does not affect the rights of the parties.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the judgment should be reversed.
The present stress of widely held and strongly expressed differences of opinion of the wisdom of the
Agricultural Adjustment Act makes it important, in the
interest of clear thinking and sound result, to emphasize
at the outset certain propositions which should have controlling influence in determining the validity of the Act.
They are:
1. The power of courts to declare a statute unconstitutional is subject to two guiding principles of decision
which ought never to be absent from judicial consciousness. One is that courts are concerned only with the
power to enact statutes, not with their wisdom. The
other is that while unconstitutional exercise of power

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Stone, J., dissenting.

by the executive and legislative branches of the government is subject to judicial restraint, the only check upon
our own exercise of power is our own sense of self-restraint. For the removal of unwise laws from the statute books appeal lies not to the courts but to the ballot
and to the processes of democratic governnient.
2. The constitutional power of Congress to levy an
excise tax upon the processing of agricultural products
is not questioned. The present levy is held invalid, not
for any want of power in Congress to lay such a tax to
defray public expenditures, including those for the general welfare, but because the use to which its proceeds
are put is disapproved.
3. As the present depressed state of agriculture is nation wide in its extent and effects, there is no basis for
saying that the expenditure of public money in aid of
farmers is not within the specifically granted power of
Congress to levy taxes to "provide for the . . . general
welfare." The opinion of the Court does not declare
otherwise.
4. No question of a variable tax fixed from time to time
by fiat of the Secretary of Agriculture, or of unauthorized
delegation of legislative power, is now presented. The
schedule of rates imposed by the Secretary in accordance
with the original command of Congress has since been
specifically adopted and confirmed by Act of Congress,
which has declared that it shall be the lawful tax. Act
of August 24, 1035, 49 Stat. 750. That is the tax which
the government now seeks to collect. Any defects there
may have been in the manner of laying the tax by the
Secretary have now been removed by the exercise of the
power of Congress to pass a curative statute validating an
intended, though defective, tax. United States v. Heinszen & Co., 206 U. S. 370; Graham & Foster v. Goodcell,
282 U. S.409; cf. Mifliken v. United States, 283 U. S.15.
The Agricultural Adjustment Act as thus amended de-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Stone, J., dissenting.

297 U. S.

clares that none of its provisions shall fail because others
are pronounced invalid.
It is with these preliminary and hardly controverted
matters in mind that we should direct our attention to the
pivot on which the decision of the Court is made to turn.
It is that a levy unquestionably within the taxing power
of Congress may be treated as invalid because it is a step
in.a plan to regulate agricultural production and is thus
a forbidden infringement of state power. The levy is not
any the less an exercise of taxing power because it is intended to defray an expenditure for the general welfare
rather thai for some other support of government. Nor
is the levy and collection of the tax pointed to as effecting
the regulation. While all federal taxes inevitably have
some influence on the internal economy of the states, it
is not contended that the levy of a processing tax upon
manufacturers using agricultural products as raw material
has any perceptible regulatory -effect upon either their
production or manufacture. The tax is unlike the penalties which were held invalid in the Child Labor Tax
Case, 259 U. S. 20, in Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, in
Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5, 17, and in United
States v. Constantine, 296 U. S. 287, because they were
themselves the instruments of regulation by virtue of
their coercive effect on matters left to the control of the
states. Here regulation, if any there be, is accomplished
not by the tax but by the method by which its proceeds
are expended, and would equally le accomplished by any
like use of public funds, -regardless of their source.
The method may be simply stated. Out of the available fund payments are made to such farmers as are willing to curtail their productive acreage, who in fact do so
and who in advance'have filed their written undertaking
to do so with the Secretary of Agriculture. In saying that
this method of spending public moneys is an invasion of
the reserved powers of the states, the Court does not assert

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
1

Stone, J., dissenting.

that the expenditure of public funds to promote the general welfare is not a substantive power specifically delegated to the national government, as Hamilton and Story
pronounced it to be. It does not deny that the expenditure of funds for the benefit of farmers and in aid of a
program of curtailment of production of agricultural products, and thus of a supposedly better ordered national
economy, is within the specifically granted power. But
it is declared that state power is nevertheless infringed by
the expenditure of the proceeds of the tax to compensate
farmers for the curtailment of their cotton acreage.
Although the farmer is placed under no legal compulsion
to reduce acreage, it is said that the mere offer of compensation for so doing is a species of economic coercion which
operates with the same legal force and effect as though the
curtailment were made mandatory by Act of Congress.
In any event it is insisted that even though not coercive
the expenditure of public funds to induce the recipients to
curtail production is itself an infrini;ement of state power,
since the federal government cannot invade the domain
of the states by the "purchase" of performance of acts
which it has no power to compel.
Of the assertion that the pdyments to farmers are coercive, it is enough to say that no such contention is pressed
by the taxpayer, and no such consequences were to be
anticipated or appear to have resulted from the administration of the Act. The suggestion of coercion finds no
support in the record or in any data showing the actual
operation of the Act. Threat of loss, not hope of gain, is
the essence of economic coercion. Members of a long
depressed industry have undoubtedly been tempted to
curtail acreage by the hope of.'resulting better prices and
by the proffered opportunity to obtain needed ready
money. But there is nothing to indicate that those who
accepted benefits were impelled by fear of lower prices if
they did not accept, or that at any stage in the operation

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Stone, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

of the plan a farmer could say whether, apart from the
certainty of cash payments at specified times, the advantage would lie with curtailment of production plus compensation, rather than with the same or increased acreage
plus the expected rise in prices which actually occurred.
Although the Agricultural Adjustment Act was put into
operation in June, 1933, the official reports of the Department of Agriculture show that 6,343,000 acres of productive cotton land, 14% of the total, did not participate
in the plan in 1934, and 2,790,000 acres, 6% of the total,
did not participate in 1935. Of the total number of farm's
growing cotton, estimated at 1,500,000, 33% in 1934 and
13% in 1935 did not participate.
It is significant that in the congressional hearings on
the bill that became the Bankhead Act, 48 Stat. 598, as
amended by Act of June 20, 1934, 48 Stat. 1184, which
imposes a tax of 50% on all cotton produced in excess of
limits prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, there
was abundant testimony that the restriction of cotton
production attempted by the Agricultural Adjustment
Act could not be secured without the coercive provisions
of the Bankhead Act. See Hearing before Committee on
Agriculture, U. S. Senate, on S. 1974, 73rd Cong., 2nd
Sess.; Hearing before Committee on Agriculture, U. S.
IVouse of Representatives, on H. R. 8402, 73rd Cong., 2nd
Sess..' The Senate and House Committees so reported,
Senate Report No. 283, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 3; House
Report No. 867, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 3. The Report
of the Department of Agriculture on the administration
of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (February 15, 1934
to December 31, 1934), p. 50, points out that the Bankhead Act was passed in response to a sti~ong sentiment in
favor of mandatory production control "that would prevent noncooperating farmers from increasing their own
plantings in order to qapitalize upon the price advances
that had resulted from the reductions made by contract

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
Stone, J., dissenting.

1

signers." I The presumption of constitutionality of a
statute is not to be overturned by an assertion of its coercive effect which rests on nothing more substantial than
groundless speculation.
It is upon the contention that state power is infringed
by purchased regulation of agricultural production that
chief reliance is placed. It is insisted that, while the Constitution gives to Congress, in specific and unambiguous
terms, the power' to tax and spend, the power is subject to
limitations which do not find their origin in any express
provision of the Constitution and to which other expressly delegated powers are not subject.
The Constitution requires that public funds shall be
spent for a defined purpose, the promotion of the general welfare. Their expenditure usually involves payment on terms which will insure use by the selected recipients within the limits of the constitutional purpose.
Expenditures would fail of their purpose and thus lose
their constitutional sanction-if the terms of payment
were not such that by their influence on the action of
the recipients the permitted end would be attained. The
power of Congress to spend is inseparable from persuasion to action over which Congress has no legislative
control. Congress may not command that the science of
agriculture be taught in state universities. But if it
would aid the teaching of that science by grants to state.
institutions, it is appropriate, if not necessary, that the
grant be on the condition, incorporated in the Morrill
Act, 12 Stat. 503, 26 Stat. .417, that it be used for the
intended purpose. Similarly it would seem to be compliance with the Constitution, not violation of it, for the
government to take and the university to give a contract that the grant would be so used. It makes no difcoercion was the sole or the dominant purpose of the
Bankhead Act, or whether the act was designed also for revenue or
other legitimate ends, there is no occasion to consider now.
1Whether

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Stone, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

ference that there is a promise to do an act which the
condition is calculated to induce. Condition and promise are alike valid since both are in furtherance of the
national purpose for which the money is appropriated.
These effects upon individual action, which are but incidents of the authorized expenditure of government
money, are pronounced to be themselves a limitation
upon the granted power, and so the time-honored principle of constitutional interpretation that the granted
power includes all those which are incident to it is reversed. "Let the end be legitimate," said the great Chief
Justice, "let it be within the scope of the Constitution,
and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are
constitutional." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
421. This cardinal guide to constitutional exposition
must now be re-phrased so far as the spending power of
the federal government is concerned. Let the expenditure be to promote the general welfare, still, if it is needful in order to insure its use for the intended purpose to
influence any action which Congress cannot command
because within the sphere of state government, the expenditure is unconstitutional. And taxes otherwise lawfully levied are likewise unconstitutional if they are appropriated to the expenditure whose incident is condemned.
Congress through the Interstate Commerce Commission
has set aside intrastate railroad rates. It has made and
destroyed intrastate industries by raising or lowering
tariffs. These results are said to be permissible because
they are incidents of the commerce power and the power
to levy duties on imports. See Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352; Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.342; Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois v. United States, 289
U. S. 48. The only conclusion to be drawn is that re-

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
I

Stone, J., dissenting.

sults become lawful when they are incidents of those
powers but unlawful when incident to the similarly
granted power to tax and spend.
Such a limitation is contradictory and destructive of the'
power to appropriate for the public welfare, and is incapable of practical application. The spending power of
Congress is in addition to the legislative power and not
subordinate to it. This independent grant of the power
of the purse, and its very nature, involving in its exercise
the duty to insure expenditure within the granted power,
presuppose freedom of selection among divers ends and
aims, and the capacity to impose such conditions as will
render the choice effective. It is a contradiction in terms
to say that there is power to spend for the national welfare, while rejecting any power to impose conditions reasonably adapted to the attainment of the end which alone
would justify the expenditure.
The limitation now sanctioned must lead to absurd
consequences. The government may give seeds to farmers, but may not condition the gift upon their being
planted in places where they are most needed or even
planted at all. The government may give money to the
unemployed, but may not ask that those who get it shall
give labor in return, or even use it to support their families. It may give money to sufferers from earthquake,
fire, tornado, pestilence or flood, but may not impose conditions-health precautions designed to prevent the
spread of disease, or induce the movement of population
to safer or more sanitary areas. All that, because it is
purchased regulation 'infringing state powers, must be
left for the states, who are unable or unwilling to supply
the necessary relief. The government may spend its
money for vocational rehabilitation, 48 Stat. 389, but it
may not, with the consent of all concerned, supervise the
process which it undertakes to aid. It may spend its
money for the suppression of the boll weevil, but may

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Stone, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

not compensate the farmers for suspending the growth of
in the infected areas. It may aid state reforestation and forest fire prevention agencies, 43 Stat. 653, but
may not be permitted to supervise their conduct. It may
support rural schools, 39 Stat. 929, 45 Stat. l-51, 48 Stat.
792, butmay not condition its grant by the requirement
that certain standards be maintained. It may appropria t6 moneys to be expended by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation "to aid in financing agriculture, commerce and industry," and to facilitate "the exportation
of'agricultural and other products." Do all its activities
collapse because, in order to effect the permissible purpose, in myriad ways the money is paid out upon terms
and conditions which influence action of the recipients
within the states, which Congress cannot command? The
answer would seem plain. If the expenditure is for a national public purpose, that purpose will not be thwarted
because payment is on condition which will advance that
purpose. The action which Congress induces by payments of money to promote the general welfare, but which
it does not command or coerce, is but an incident to a
specifically granted power, but a permissible -means to a
legitimate end. If appropriation in aid of a program of
curtailmefit of agricultural production is constitutional,
and it is not denied that it is, payment to farmers on condition that they reduce their crop acreage is constitutional:
It is not any the less so because the farmer at his own
option.promises to fulfill the condition.
That the governmental power of the purse is a great one
is not now for the first time announced. Every student
of the history ofgovernment and economics is aware of
its magnitude and of its existence in every civilized government. Both were well understood by the framers of
the Constitution when they sanctioned the grant of the
spending power to the federal government, and both were
recognized by Hamilton and Story, whose views of the
-cotton

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER.
I

Stone, J., dissenting.

spending power as standing on a parity with the other
powers specifically granted, have hitherto been generally
accepted.
The suggestion that it must now be curtailed by judicial
fiat because it may be abused by unwise use hardly rises
to the dignity of argument. So may judicial power be
abused. "The power to tax is the power to destroy," but
we do not, for that reason, doubt its existence, or hold that
its efficacy is to be restricted by its incidental or collateral
effects upon the states. See Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; compare
Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40. The power to
tax and spend is not without constitutional restraints.
One restriction is that the purpose must be truly national.
Another is'that it may not be used to coerce action left
to state control. Another is the conscience and patriotism
of Congress and the Executive. "It must be remembered
that legislators are the ultimate guardians of the liberties
and welfare of the people in quite as great a degree as
the courts." Justice Holmes, in Missouri,Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 270.
A tortpred construction of the Constitution is not to be
justified by recourse to extreme examples of reckless congressional spending which might occur if courts could
not prevent - expenditures which, even if they could be
thought to effect any national purpose, would be possible
only by action of a legislature lost to all sense of public
responsibility. Such suppositions are addressed to the
mind accustomed to believe that it is the business of
courts to sit in judgment on the wisdom of legislative
action. Courts are not the only agency of government
that must be assumed to have capacity to govern. Congress and the courts both unhappily may falter or be
mistaken in the performance of their constitutional duty.
But interpretatibn of our great charter of governmept
which proceeds on any assumption that the responsibility
for the preservation of our institutions is the exclusive

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

concern of any one of the three branches of government,
or that it alone can save them from destruction is far
more likely, in the long run, "to obliterate the constituent
members" of "an indestructible union of indestructible
states" than the frank recognition that language, even
of a constitution, may mean what it says: that the power
to tax and spend includes the power to relieve a nationwide economic maladjustment by conditional gifts of
money.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO join

in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. SAFETY CAR HEATING &
LIGHTING CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 75.

Argued December 20, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

A patent-owner began suit in 1912 to restrain infringements and for
damages and profits. The litigation was pending on February 25,
1913, the effective date of the Sixteenth Amendment, and March 1,

1913, the effective date of the first statute enacted under it, and
was continued for many years thereafter during which the patentowner obtained a decree finally sustaining the patent followed by
a decree on accounting, of which a definite part was for profits
'receied by the infringer before March 1, 1913, and the remainder
for profits received thereafter, the claim for .damages having been
waived. Pending an appeal by the infringer involving the extent
of his liability, a compromise occurred (1925) in which the patentowner accepted a smaller amount in satisfaction of the judgment.
Held:
1. The profits thus received accrued to the patent-owner and
became taxable as his income, at the time of the settlement and
liquidation. P. 93.
with No. 76, Rogers, Collector of Internal Revenue, v.
Safety'Car Heating & Lighting Co. Certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
*Together

