BALTIMORE NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N. 209
Statement of the Case.

BALTIMORE NATIONAL BANK v. STATE TAX
COMMISSION OF MARYLAND.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.

No. 283. Argued January 10, 1936.--Decided February 3, 1936.
1. The consent given by R. S., § 5219, to state taxation of "all" shares
of national banks has been heretofore construed to embrace shares
of national banks when owned by another national bank, and by
parity of reasoning embraces preferred shares of a national bank
when owned by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. P. 212.
2. In the legislation authorizing the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to subscribe for preferred shares of national and state banks,
12 U. S. C., § 51 (d), the proviso limiting the authority to shares
of which the holders are exempt from double liability, is significant
of the understanding of the Congress that upon the acceptance of
the shares the corporation would be exposed to the same measure
of liability and would stand in the same position as shareholders
in general. P. 213.
3. This view is corroborated by the fact that the authority of national
banks to issue preferred shares, and the authority of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to subscribe for them, were provided
by the same Act as parts of the banking system, without sdggestion of any distinction in the liabilities of shareholders. P. 213.
4. The general provision in the Act creating the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, 15 U. S. C., § 610, which exempts "the corporation, including its franchise, its capital, reserves, and surplus, and
its income" "from all taxation," (excepting real estate) is to be
construed with the earlier, specific provision of § 5219 R. S. permitting state taxation of "all" shares of national banks, and does
not preclude a state tax laid on national bank shares belonging to
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and collected from the
bank. P. 214.
169 Md. 65; 180 Atl. 260, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 538, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of the Circuit Court of Baltimore City,
which canceled an order of the State Tax Commission
of Marylana upholding a tax on shares of'the Bank,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Messrs. Edwin F. A. Morgan and Gaylord Lee Clark
for petitioner.
Mr. HerbertR. O'Conor,Attorney General of Maryland,
and Mr. William L. Henderson, Assistant Attorney General, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. James B.. Alley, Max O'Rell
Truitt, Hans A. Klagsbrunn, and William Radner, and
Florence A. de Haas filed a brief on behalf of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, as amicus curiae, in support of the proposition that shares of national bank stock
held by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation are not
subject to state taxation.
MR. J sTIcE CARDoZo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents the single question whether shares in
a national bank, subscribed for and owned by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, may be taxed by a
state.
The Baltimore Trust Company closed its doors in February, 1933, and. was unable to reopen. It was reorganized in August of the same year as a national banking
association under the name of the Baltimore National
Bank with a place of business in Baltimore, Maryland.
To set the business going, the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation subscribed for the entire issue of preferred
stock, 10,000 shares of the par value of $1,000,000. Following a provision of the Maryland Code (1935 Supp.,
Article 81, § 15 e*), the State Tax Commission upheld a
tax upon the shares, overruling thereby the protest of the
* "Shares of stock assessable under this section shall be taxed to the
several owners thereof, and the taxes thereon shall be debts of such
owners, but may be collected in each case from the bank or other
corporation, which shall be bound to pay the same for account of its

BALTIMORE NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N. 211
209

Opinion of the Court.

bank, which made a claim of immunity under the Federal
Constitution for the benefit of the shareholder as well
as for itself. The order made by the Commission was
reviewed upon appeal by the Circuit Court of Baltimore
City, which canceled the assessment. In accord is a ruling of a District Court of the United States for the Western District of Kentucky. United States v. Lewis, 10 F.
Supp. 471. Upon an appeal by the Commission to the
Court of Appeals of Maryland, the order of the Circuit
Court was reversed and the assessment reinstated. 169
Md. 65; 180 Atl. 260. To settle an important question
as to the taxing power of a state, a writ of certiorari issued
from this court.
The Reconstruction Finance Corporation was organized
in 1932 to give relief to financial institutions in a national
emergency and for other and kindred ends. Act of January 22, 1932, 47 Stat. 5; Act of July 21, 1932, 47 Stat. 709;
15 U. S. C., c. 14. At the time of its creation and continuously thereafter the United States has been and is
the sole owner of its shares. The purpose that it has
aimed to serve is not profit to the government, though
profit may at times result from one or more of its activities. The purpose to be served is the rehabilitation of
finance and industry and commerce, threatened with prostration as the result of the great depression. We assume,
though without deciding even by indirection, that within
McCulloch-v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, a corporation so
conceived and operated is an instrumentality of government without distinction in that regard between one
activity and another. Even on that assumption taxation
by state or municipality may overpass the usual limits
stockholders whether or not dividends are declared thereon, as if
such corporations were the ultimate taxpayer, but may obtain reimbursement therefor from the respective stockholders, and may
charge the same in reduction of any amounts due to the several
shareholders as dividends or otherwise."

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

if the consent of the United States has removed the
barriers or lowered them.
We think consent has been so given where shares in a
national bank are the property to be taxed, though an
agency of government is the owner of the assets subjected
to. the burden. By § 5219 of the Revised Statutes (12
U. S. C., § 548; cf. Act of June 3, 1864, 13 Stat. 99, 112;
Act of February 10, 1868, 15 Stat. 34) "all" the shares
of a national banking association whose principal place
of business is within the limits of a state are made subject to taxation at the pleasure of the " legislature with
conditions as to form and method not important at this
time. This court has held that Congress in saying "all"
meant exactly what it said, and that shares in a national
bank belonging to another national bank were taxable
to the same extent as if they belonged to any one else.
Bank of Redemption v. Boston, 125 U. S. 60, 69, 70; Bank
of Californiav. Richardson, 248 U. S. 476, 483; Bank of
Californiav. Roberts, 248 U. S. 497; Des Moines National
Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103. "The manifest intention of the law is to permit the State in which a national bank is located to tax, subject to the limitations
prescribed, all the' shares of its capital stock without
regard to their ownership." Bank of Redemption v.
Boston, supra, at p. 70. True, as we have assumed, the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation is a governmental
agency, but so also is a national bank. McCulloch v.
Maryland, supra. The question thus reduces itself to
this, whether there is sufficient reason to believe that
immunity from taxes of this.kind has'been given to the
one agency, though by long accepted decisions it has been
denied to the other.
In such a situation the burden is heavily on the suitor
who would subject the word "all" with its uncompromising generality to an unexpressed exception. The
petitioner reminds us that the ends to be served by the

BALTIMORE NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N. 213
209

Opinion of the Court.

Reconstruction Finance Corporation are even more predominantly public than those of a national bank, since the
bank, while promoting the fiscal needs of the government,
is acting at the same time for the profit of its stockholders.
The suggestion has its force, but force inadequate, we
think, to carry to the goal. Its inadequacy is the more
apparent when the capacity of the corporation to become
a subscriber to the stock is followed to the sources. Until
March, 1933, thebe was no power on the part of national
banks to issue preferred shares. Act of March 9, 1933,
Title III, 48 Stat. 5; amended June 15, 1933, 48 Stat. 147;
12 U. S. C., § 51 (a). Until then there was no power on
the part of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to
subscribe for such shares or indeed for any others. Act
of March 9, 1933, Title I, 48 Stat. 5, 6; amended March
24, 1933, 48 Stat. 20, 21; 12 U. S. C., § 51 (d). By statutes then enacted a national bank was authorized to
issue preferred shares of one or more classes upon the
approval first obtained of the Comptroller of the Currency. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation was
authorized at the same time, witf the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to subscribe for preferred
shares in national banks and also in state banks and trust
companies that were in need of funds for capital purposes, subject to the proviso that no such subscription was
to be permitted unless the holders of the preferred shares
were exempt from double liability. This proviso in and
of itself is highly significant of the understanding of the
Congress that upon the acceptance of the shares the corporation would be exposed to the same measure of liability and would stand in the same position as shareholders in general.
Other signposts of intention seem to point us the same
way, though perhaps with less directness. The newly
created power to issue preferred shares was given by an
act for the governance of banks (48 Stat. 5), now incor-

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

porated in the United States Code as part of title 12,
regulating banks and banking. 12 U. S. C., § 51 (a).
The newly created power to subscribe for preferred shares
was given by the same act. 48 Stat. 5, 6; amended March
24, 1933, 48 Stat. 20, 21; 12 U. S. C., § 51 (d). The two
are incidents and aspects of a unitary scheme.' No one
will deny that shares put out under this act would have
been taxable to the holders in the event that some one
other than this particular corporation had acquired the
new issue through purchase or subscription. If they were
to be exe~ipt in the hands of a particular corporation,
empowered to acquire them by an associated section, then
was the appropriate time for announcing the exception.
Instead there is a clear assumption, brought out into full
relief by the exclusion of shares chargeable with double
liability, that subscriptions when permitted are to stand
on an equality, irrespective of their source. A shareholder in the banking system is a shareholder for every
purpose, accepting the attendant liabilities along with the
attendant powers.
We have reserved to the last an argument strongly
pressed in behalf of the petitioner, but one more easily
appraised in the light of what has gone before. The act
for the formation of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation has its own provisions for exemption, which have
now to be considered. "The corporation, including its
franchise, its capital, reserves, and surplus, and its income
shall be exempt from all taxation . . . except that any
real property of the corporation shall be subject to . . .
taxation to the same extent according to its value as other
real property is taxed." 47 Stat. 5, 9, 10; 15 U. S. C.,
§ 610.' The petitioner insists that the tax now in controversy is forbidden by that section. The contention is
plausible, yet it will not prevail against analysis. For
•1 The real property of national banks is subject to a like exception. R. S. § 5219; 12,U. S. C.. § 548, subdivision 3.

BALTIMORE NAT. BANK v. TAX COMM'N.
209

215

Opinion of the Court.

the tax now in controversy, whatever its indirect effect,
is not laid directly upon, the capital, reserves, or surplus
of the corporation claiming the immunity or accorded the
exemption. It is laid upon the shares in another corporation, a member of the banking system, which must pay
it in the first place (Maryland Code, 1935 Supp., Article
81, § 15 e; Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S.
503, 518), though with a right to be made whole thereafter. "Capital,. reserves and surplus" are not taxable
by a state if they belong to the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation. Neither are they taxable if they belong to
a national bank. First National Bank of Gulfport v.
Adams, 258 U. S. 362;- Des Moines Bank v. Fairweather,
supra, at pp. 106, 107; Domenech v. National City Bank,
294 U. S. 199, 204. This has not been thought to exclude
the taxation of such a bank upon its shares in other banks,
members of the federal system. Bank of Redemption v.
Boston, supra; Bank of Californiav. Richardson, supra;
Bank of California v. Roberts, supra; Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather, supra. With hardly more
reason may words of like extension have a broader meaning here. An earlier act, specific in its coverage, will be
read as an exception to a later one directed to investments
generally. "It is a well-settled principle of construction
that specific terms covering the given subject matter will'
prevail over general language of the same or another statute which might otherwise prove controlling." Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S. 100, 125; cf. Ginsberg & Sons v.
Popkin, 285 U. S. 204, 208; In re East River Co., 266
U. S. 355, 367; Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, 428;
Rosencrans v. United States, 165 U. S. 257, 262; Red
Rock v. Henry, 106 U. S. 596, 603. All shares in national
banks-no matter by whom owned-shall be subject to
taxation. R. S. § 5219. Across the petitioner's path
there still lies the stumbling block of that uncompromising "all."
The judgment is
Affirmed.

