124

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

GOOCH v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAiS FOR THE
TENTH

No. 559.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 13, 14, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.

1. An officer who is unlawfully seized and carried away to prevent
the arrest of his captor is "held for . . reward or otherwise"
within the meaning of the Federal Kidnaping Act as amended;
and transportation in interstate commerce of the officer while thus
restrained constitutes a violation of the Act. Act of June 22,
1932, as amended by Act of May 18, 1934. P. 125.
2. The amending Act added to the words "held for ransom or reward" the words "or otherwise, except, in the case of a minor,
by a parent thereof." The contention that the words "ransom"
and "reward" mean only pecuniary benefits, and that ejusdem
generis similarly restricts the words "or otherwise" notwithstanding the excepting clause, cannot be sustained. P. 126.
3. The rule of ejusdem generis is an aid in ascertaining the correct meaning of words when there is uncertainty. P. 128.
4. Penal statutes are construed in that sense which best harmonizes
with their context and purpose. P. 128.
CERTIFICATE presenting two questions involving the
construction of the Federal Kidnaping Act.

Mr. W. F. Rampendahl, with whom Mr. E. M. Frye
was on the brief, for Gooch.
Mr. Gordon Dean, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Keenan, and Mr. William W.
Barron were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. JUSTICE
Court.

McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

By permission of ยง 346, 28 U. S. C., the Circuit Court
of Appeals, 10th Circuit, has certified two questions and
asked instruction.
". Is holding an officer to avoid arrest within the
meaning of the phrase, 'held for ransom or reward or

GOOCH v. UNITED STATES.
124

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise', in the act of June 22, 1932, as amended May
18, 1934 (48 Stat. 781), 18 U. S. C. A. 408a?
"2. Is it an offense under Section 408a, supra, to kidnap and transport a person in interstate commerce for
the purpose of preventing the arrest of the kidnaper?"
The statement revealing the facts and circumstances
out of which the questions arise follows-"Gooch was convicted and sentenced to be hanged
under an indictment charging that he, with one Nix,
kidnaped two officers at Paris, Texas, 'for the purpose of
preventing his (Gooch's) arrest by the said peace officers
in the State of Texas,' and transported them in interstate
commerce from Paris, Texas, to Pushmataha County,
Oklahoma, and at the time of the kidnaping did bodily
harm and injury to one of the officers from which bodily
harm the officer was suffering at the time of his liberation
by Gooch and Nix in Oklahoma.
"The proof supports the charge. It established these
facts: Gooch and Nix, while heavily armed, were accosted by the officers at Paris, Texas. To avoid arrest,
Gooch and Nix resisted and disarmed the officers, unlawfully seized and kidnaped them and transported them by
automobile from Texas to Oklahoma, and liberated them
in the latter State. During the time Geoch and Nix were
kidnaping the officers they inflicted serious bodily injury
upon one of the officers, from which injury he was suffering at the time of such liberation in the State of
Oklahoma."
The Act of June 22, 1932, c. 271, 47 Stat. 326,
provided"That whoever shall knowingly transport or cause to
be transported, or aid or abet in transporting, in interstate or foreign commerce, any person who shall have
been unlawfully seized, confined, inveigled, decoyed, kidnaped, abducted, or carried away by any means whatsoever and held for ransom or reward shall, upon convic-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

tion, be punished by imprisonment in fhe penitentiary
for such term of years as the court, in its discretion, shall
determine."
The amending Act of May 18, 1934, c. 301, 48 Stat. 781,
18 U. S. C. 408a, declares-"Whoever shall knowingly transport or cause to be
transported, or aid or abet in transporting, in interstate
or foreign commerce, any person who shall have been unlawfully seized, confined, inveigled, decoyed, kidnaped,
abducted, or carried away by any means whatsoever and
held for ransom or reward or otherwise, except, in the
case of a minor, by a parent thereof, shall, upon conviction, be punished (1) by death if the verdict of the jury
shall so recommend, provided that the sentence of death
shall not be imposed by the court if, prior to its imposition, the kidnaped person has been liberated unharmed,
or (2) if the death penalty shall not apply nor be imposed the convicted person shall be punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary for such term of years as the
"
court in its discretion shall determine:
Counsel for Gooch submit that the words "ransom or
reward" import "some pecuniary consideration or payment of something of value"; that as the statute is criminal the familiar rule of ejusdem generis must be strictly
applied; and- finally, it cannot properly be said that a
purpose to prevent arrest and one to obtain money or
somothing of pecuniary value are similar in nature.
The original Act (1932) required that the transported
person should be held "for ransom or reward." It did not
undertake to define the words and nothing indicates an
intent to limit their meaning to benefits of pecuniary
value. Generally, reward implies something given in
return for good or evil done or received.
Informed by experience -during two years, and for reasons satisfactory to itself, Congress undertook by the
1934 Act to enlarge the earlier one and to clarify its pur-

GOOCH v. UNITED STATES.
124

ODinion of the Ccurt.

pose by inserting "or otherwise, except, in the case of a
minor, by a parent thereof," immediately after "held for
ransom or reward." The history of the enactment
emphasized this view.
The Senate Judiciary Committee made a report, copied
in the margin,' recommending passage of the amending
bill and pointing out the broad purpose intended to be
accomplished.
The House Judiciary Committee made a like recommendation and said"The Committee on the Judiciary, having had under consideraticn
the bill (S. 2252) to amend the act forbidding the transportation of
kidnaped persons in interstate commerce, reports the same favorably
to the Senate and recommends that the bill do pass.
"The purpose and need of this legislation are set out in the following memorandum from the Department of Justice:
"S. 2252; H. R. 6918: This is a bill to amend the act forbidding
the transportation of kidnaped persons in interstate commerce-act
of June 22, 1932 (U. S. C., ch. 271, title 18, sec. 408a), commonly
known as the 'Lindbergh Act.' This amendment adds thereto the
word 'otherwise' so that the act as amended reads: 'Whoever shall
knowingly transport . . . any person who shall have been unlawfully seized . . . and held for ransom or reward or otherwise
shall, upon conviction, be punished . . .' The object of the addition
of the word 'otherwise' is to extend the jurisdiction of this act to persons who have been kidnaped and held, nct only for reward, but for
any other reason.
"'In addition, this bill adds a proviso to the Lindbergh Act to the
effect that in the absence of the return of the person kidnaped and
in the absence of the apprehension of the kidnaper during a period
of 3 days, the presumption arises that such person has been transported in interstate or foreign commerce, but such presumption is not
conclusive.
"I believe that this is a sound amendment which will clear up
border-line cases, justifying Federal investigation in most of such
cases and assuring the validity of Federal prosecution in numerous
instances in which such prosecution would be questionable under
the present form of this act." S. Rep. 534, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.,
March 22, 1934.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

"This bill, as amended, proposes three changes in the
act known as the 'Federal Kidnaping Act.' First, it is
proposed to add the words 'or otherwise, except, in the
case of a minor, by a parent thereof.' This will extend
Federal jurisdiction under the act to persons who have
been kidnaped and held, not only for reward, but for any
other reason, except that a kidnaping by a parent of his
child is specifically exempted. . . ." H. Rep. 1457,
73d Cong., 2d Sess., May 3, 1934.
Evidently, Congress intended to prevent transportation
in interstate or foreign commerce of persons who were being unlawfully restrained in order that the captor might
secure some benefit to himself. And this is adequately
expressed by the words of the enactment.
The rule of ejusdem generis, while firmly established,
is only an instrumentality for ascertaining the correct
meaning of words when there is uncertainty. Ordinarily,
it limits general terms which follow specific ones to matters similar to those specified; but it may not be used to
defeat the obvious purpose of legislation. And, while
penal statutes are narrowly construed, this does not require rejection of that sense of the words which best harmonizes with the context and the end in view. United
States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 395; Johnson v. Southern
Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1-17, 18; United States v. Bitty,
208 U. S. 393, 402; United States v. Mescall, 215 U. S.
26-31, 32.
Holding an officer to prevent the captor's arrest is something done with the expectation of benefit to the transgressor. So also is kidnaping with' purpose to secure
money. These benefits, while not the same, are similar
in their general nature and the desire to secure either
of them may lead to kidnaping. If the word reward, as
commonly understood, is not itself broad enough to include benefits expected to follow the prevention of an
arrest, they fall within the broad term, "otherwise."

MANHATTAN CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
124

129

Syllabus.

The words "except, in case of a minor, by a parent
thereof" emphasize the intended result of the enactment.
They indicate legislative understanding that in their absence a parent, who carried his child away because of
affection, might subject himself to condemnation of the
statute. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 438.
Both questions must be answered in the affirmative.
MANHATTAN GENERAL EQUIPMENT CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TEI

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 226.

Argued January 8, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.

1. A loss resulting from the sale in 1926 of securities in respect of
which a distribution pursuant to a plan of reorganization had been
made, held properly determined, for the purpose of computing
income tax under the Revenue Act of 1926, by the method prescribed by Art. 1599 of Treasury Regulations 65, as amended
April 3, 1928, rather than by the original regulation promulgated
August 28, 1926, where the effect of applying the original regulation would be to credit the taxpayer with a loss greatly disproportionate as between the stock in respect of which the distribution
was made and the stock distributed, contrary to the provision of
the statute which requires that the basis shall be "apportioned" between the old and the new stock. P. 132.
2. To apportion is "to divide and assign in just proportion," "to distribute among two or more a just part or share to each." P. 134.
3. The validity of an administrative regulation depends on whether
it is consistent with the statute and reasonable. P. 134.
4. Since the original regulation could not lawfully be applieal in the
circumstances of this case, because inconsistent with the statute
and unreasonable, the amended regulation in effect became the
*Together with No. 227, Collier Service Corp. v. Commissioner of

Internal Revenue. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

