N. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. RY. COMM'N.
464

471

Syllabus.

that established by § 40. If reorganization is abandoned
in favor of liquidation, a referee may be appointed to
whose compensation § 40 is expressly made applicable by
§ 77 B (k). These are persuasive reasons for concluding
that neither § 40 nor § 77 B is to be construed as recognizing that a reorganization is the equivalent of a composition for the purpose of fixing referees' fees under
§ 40 (a).

Section 40 (c) relates only to the allocation of fees
allowed under § 40 (a) in the event that the reference is
revoked or the case is specially referred. But here the
reference has not been revoked nor the case specially re-

ferred, and, for reasons already given, no fees to the referee
in addition to those allowed by the court below are

authorized under § 40 (a).
Affirmed.

NORTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. NEBRASKA STATE RAILWAY COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM, THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 350. Argued February 6, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.
1, The record failing to disclose what, if any, federal questions were
presented to the state supreme court, review here is accordingly
confined to those which are discussed in the opinion of that court.
P. 473.
2. Upon aplreal from a judgment of a state supreme court affirming
an order of the state commission directing a telephone company
doing local and interstate business to use, for purposes of accounting and reporting to the commission, for the year 1934, a composite
depreciation rate of 3 % upon all of its depreciable property
within the State, held:
(1) Assuming, without deciding, that due process requires that
the commission's order be upon notice to the company and opportunity to be heard, the procedure followed by the commission in
this case satisfied that requirement. P. 473.
(2) The Interstate Commerce Commission not having prescribed
rates of depreciation pursuant to § 20 (5) of the Interstate Com-

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

merce Act, it was within the authority of the state commission to
prescribe such rates. P. 477.
(3) The estimated composite rate determined and used by the
company, pursuant to the direction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission that such rate be used until rates prescribed by that
Commission should become effective, cannot be taken as a rate
prescribed under § 20 (5). P. 479.
(4) Section 20 (5) cannot be construed as authorizing the
Interstate Commerce Commission to supplant state power to
regulate depreciation rates of telephone companies otherwise than
by prescribing a rate administratively determined by the Commission itself. P. 480.
3. Statutes should be so construed as to avoid doubts of their constitutionality. P. 480.
128 Neb. 447; 259 N. W. 362, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming an order of the state
commission relating to the accounting of the telephone
company.
Mr. Charles M. Bracelen, with whom Messrs. Frank E.
Randall and Tracy J. Peycke were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edwin Vail, Assistant Attbrney General of Nebraska, and Mr. John E. Benton, with whom Mr. Win. H.
Wright, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Clyde S.. Bailey, John E.
Benton, and Edwin Vail filed a brief on behalf of the National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance of the judgment of the court below.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the-opinion of the Court.
This case comes here on appeal under § 237 of the Judicial Code from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska, 128 Neb. 447; 259 N. W. 362, affirming an order of
the Nebraska State Railway Commission which directs

N. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. RY. COMM'N.
471

473

Opinion of the Court.

appellant Telephone Company to use, for purposes of accounting and reporting to the Commision, for the year
1934, a composite depreciation rate of 31/2% upon all its
depreciable property in Nebraska.
Appellant now assails the order on three grounds: (1)
that it was made without such notice and hearing as due
process requires; (2) that it is invalid because the Interstate Commerce Commission, pursuant to Congressional
legislation, has occupied the field of regulation of telephone company accounting, and has made valid orders
conflicting with that of the State Commission; and (3)
that it infringes due process because it is unsupported by
evidence and deprives appellant of the right to keep
accurate books of account.
The record does not disclose what, if any, federal questions were presented to the state supreme court. Its
opinion discusses only the first two contentions made
here, and we accordingly confine our review to them.
See Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236; Cissna v.
Tennessee, 246 U. S. 289; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276
U. S. 260.
1. Assuming, without deciding, that due process requires that the Commission's order be upon notice to appellant and opportunity to be heard, we think that requirement was satisfied by the procedure followed by the
Commission. The challenged order was made at the conclusion of proceedings initiated by the State Commission
by its General Order No. 59, directing Class A telephone
companies, to which class appellant belongs, to file with
the Commission specified schedules of depreciation rates.
The order was prefaced by an opinion of the Commission.
The opinion, after reciting the authority conferred
upon the Interstate Commerce Commission by § 20 of
the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 493, to fix and prescribe
depreciation charges for telephone companies, refers to

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

the order of that Commission of July 28, 1931, In Depreciation Charges of Telephone Companies, Docket No.
14,700, 177 I. C. C. 351, which, for the assistance of the
Commission in prescribing depreciation charges, required
Class A telephone companies to file with their respective
state commissions by September 1, 1932, their estimates of
composite annual percentage depreciation rates applicable to each class of depreciable property owned or used
by them, with supporting data. The order provided for
the adoption of a depreciation rate by the Commission,
to be effective January 1, 1933. The opinion of the State
Commission poinits out that by later order of the Interstate Commerce Commission the filing date was postponed to August 1, 1934, and the date for the prescribed
rate to January 1, 1935.
The opinion also refers to the Depreciation Section
Service Circular 7, issued by the Interstate Commerce
Commission Bureau of Accounts, which requested that
schedules of depreciation rates and statements of estimated service lives and salvage values of telephone property be submitted not later than March 1, 1934, "in order
that the Commission may be informed as to the rates contemplated for use" by the telephone companies for the
year 1934. The opinion states that it is the view of the
State Commission that it has not been deprived of jurisdiction to fix rates for intrastate telephone service, and
that, while Congress has given the Interstate Commerce
Commission authority to prescribe a uniform system of
accounting and rates of depreciation for purposes of accounting to it, the state commissions are not deprived of
their authority to fix rates of depreciation so far as their
own accounting and reporting system is concerned.
The Commission accordingly ordered that Class A telephone companies file with it, not later than March 1,
1934, a schedule of depreciation rates by primary accounts
which they proposed to apply for the calendar year 1934,

N. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. RY. COMM'N.
471

475

Opinion of the Court.

with such supporting data as is required by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and to file not later than August
1, 1934, their composite annual percentage depreciation
rates to be effective January 1, 1935, in accordance with
the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission in
Docket No. 14,700, and its supplemental orders. The
order of the State Commission concludes with the statement that it approves the procedure adopted by the Interstate Commerce Commission for prescribing depreciation rates, except that "It reserves the right to review
the findings and conclusions of the Interstate Commerce
Commission and enter a final order thereon as to the depreciation rate for accounting purposes to this commission."
In compliance with this order appellant, on March 1,
1934, filed schedules classifying its depreciable property
in twelve accounts, with estimated rates of depreciation
of each class for 1934, and showing a composite estimated
rate of depreciation on all accounts of 4.48%.
Upon examination of these schedules the Commission
made a further order, on March 6, 1934, reciting that depreciation rates for 1934 had been filed and that it was not
"fully satisfied with the rates proposed," and directing
that the case be set "for hearing for oral examination of
the members of respondent's staff, who had prepared said
schedules, and for the introduction of such evidence as
the Commission may desire to submit with opportunity
of objections and cross-examination by respondent."
Appellant argues that throughout these proceedings it
was not advised that the Commission proposed to make
any order with respect to depreciation rates for 1934, or
to do more than make recommendations as to the proper
depreciation rates to be adopted by the Interstate Commerce Commission for 1935. But it was evident from the
opinion and orders of the Commission mentioned that it
proposed to deal with two aspects of appellant's depre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

ciation accounting. One was the gathering of data with
respect to the proposed rates of depreciation for 1935,
which the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
had directed should be filed with the state commissions,
and as to which the latter had been requested to submit
their recommendations. The other related to the State
Commission's asserted authority to fix depreciation rates,
its rejection of the proposed rates for 1934 as unsatisfactory, and its direction that hearings be had on them.
That the primary purpose of the hearing was to aid
the Commission in its rate-making rather than its advisory function seems apparent, the more so as the order
for the hearing refers only to the 1934 rates and as the
date set for it was in March, four months before August
1, 1934, the date fixed for filing data for the 1935 rate,
with respect to which alone the Commission had been
asked to exercise its advisory function. Because of subsequent postponements the date for submitting the data
for 1935 never arrived.
Possibility of doubt as to the purpose of the hearing
was removed in its course before the Commission. At
the outset the presiding commissioner announced that the
purpose was to fix the 1934 rate, a statement which he
repeated later in the course of the hearing on the same
day. To this appellant made no objection. The hearing occupied two days. Appellant was represented by
counsel. It produced witnesses, including its own engineer and others who had prepared the filed depreciation
schedules for 1934, who were examined and cross-examined at length. No evidence tendered by it was rejected.
So much of the testimony as is included in the bill of
exceptions occupies 151 pages of the printed record. It
discloses that both the Commission and the appellant
were seeking to establish the proper rate of depreciation
to be applied to appellant's property for 1934. The
state court rightly concluded that appellant was afforded

N. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. RY. COMM'N.
471

477

Opinion of the Court.

a full hearing upon adequate notice that the Commission
proposed to fix a depreciation rate for 1934, and that
the requirements of due process were satisfied.
2. The remaining question is whether the jurisdiction
conferred by Congress upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission over accounts and depreciation rates of telephone companies, and the exercise of that jurisdiction by
the Commission, have operated to curtail state authority
over depreciation rates for 1934.
The Interstate Commerce Commission was given no
jurisdiction over telephone service rates, but §§ 1 (1),
20 (1) (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
by Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 595, see 36 Stat. 555,
556, conferred on the Commission authority, in its discretion, to prescribe a uniform system of accounts for
telephone companies, and made it unlawful for them to
keep any accounts other than those prescribed or approved by the Commission. Such a system of accounts
was required by the Commission February 1, 1913. Effective January 1, 1933, it prescribed a Revised System
of Accounts for Class A and Class B Telephone Companies and directed that they keep all accounts in conformity to it.
The Commission never undertook to prescribe rates of
depreciation for telephone companies under the Act of
1906. But the Transportation Act of February 28, 1920,
again amending § 20 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act,
directed the Commission, "as soon as practicable," to
prescribe the classes of property of carriers, including
telephone companies, "for which depreciation charges
may properly be included under operating expenses and
the percentages of depreciation which shall be charged
with respect to each of such classes of property." Carriers were forbidden to charge depreciation rates other
than those prescribed by the Commission. Since 1920
the Interstate Commerce Commission has taken steps

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

preparatory to the establishment of rates of depreciation for telephone companies, some of which we have
mentioned. The adoption of rates has been postponed
from time to time and has now been indefinitely postponed by Order of the Communications Commission of
May 1, 1935, to which the authority of the Interstate
Commerce Commission over telephone 'companies was
transferred by Act of Congress of June 19. 1934, 48 Stat.
1064.
We leave aside the argument of respondent that the
federal government is powerless to deny to the states
authority to prescribe accounts and depreciation rates to
assist them in fixing rates for intrastate telephone service,
see Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit
Co., 224 U. S. 194; compare Pollock v. Farmers Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 586; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall.
113, 124; ,Ambrosini v. United States, 187 U. S. 1, 7, and
pass to the question, decisive of the present case, whether
there has yet been any exercise of such power. Both the
language of the statute already quoted, and the nature of
its subject matter indicate that it contemplated no restriction of state control over depreciation rates until the
Interstate Commerce Commission had prescribed its own
rates. State commissions were not deprived of power to
fix rates for intrastate telephone service, in determining
which rates of depreciation chargeable to operating expenses play an important part. See Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 292 U. S. 151. The statute did
not envisage an immediate adoption of depreciation
rates by the Interstate Commerce Commission. A long
period might elapse, as the event has shown, before the
Commission would be prepared to act. It cannot be supposed that Congress intended by the amendment to § 20
(5) to preclude all regulation, state and national, of depreciation rates for telephone companies, for an indefinite time, until the Interstate Commerce Commission

N. W. BELL TEL. CO. v. RY. COMM'N.
471

479

Opinion of the Court.

could act administratively to prescribe rates. See Illinois Central R. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 245 U. S.
493, 510; RailroadCommissioners v. Great Northern Ry.
Co., 281 U. S. 412, 430. In Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133, 139, this Court pointed out that
until the Interstate Commerce Commission has prescribed
depreciation rates the prerogative of the state to regulate such rates cannot be gainsaid. See also Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Flour Mills Co.,.211 U. S. 612,
623.
When respondent fixed the composite rate of depreciation applicable to all classes of appellant's property for
1934, the Interstate Commerce Commission had precribed
no rate. It had given directions for filing data withstate
commissions preparatory to establishing a rate for the
year 1935, and by the Revised Uniform System of Accounts for Telephone Companies, effective in 1933, 't had
prescribed, Instruction 81 (A) (C), the method by which
depreciation accounts should be kept, directing that there
be a composite annual percentage rate of depreciation for
each account covering depreciable property, and that until
rates "prescribed by this Commission become effective"
the company's estimated composite rate be used.
-It is said that the company rate, use of which was thus
authorized for accounting purposes, must be taken as the
prescribed rate until the Commission has fixed its own
rate, and that in consequence state commissions are
powerless to disturb it. But the order shows on its face
that the Commission did not regard the company rates
as rates prescribed by the Commission as required by
§ 20 (5) and we think the purpose of the order, made plain
by its language, was to establish a method of accounting,
not to prescribe depreciation rates within the meaning of
§ 20 (5). It thus, without purporting to restrict the
power of state commissions over depreciation rates, left
the telephone companies free, so far as the Interstate

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Commerce Commission was concerned, to use their own
depreciation rates for purposes of the required accounting, until the Commission performed the duty to establish
rates, imposed upon it by Congress.
In any event, we think that § 20 (5) cannot be read
as authorizing the Interstate Commerce Commission to
supplant state power to regulate depreciation rates of
telephone companies except by prescribing a rate administratively determined by the Commission itself. A direction that the Commission, as soon as practicable, prescribe depreciation rates, is hardly to be read as authority
to permit the telephone companies to fix the-rates for
themselves in defiance of state power. The doubtful constitutionality of the statute if so construed precludes our
acceptance of such a construction.
The Commission has thas prescribed no depreciation
rates as required by § 20 (5). No exertion of federal
authority, through the Interstate Commerce Act, § 20
(5), (6), (7), the orders of the Commission, or otherwise,
forbids the making of entries in appellant's accounts or
the doing of anything that is by the state commission's
order directed to be done. Pending action by the Communications Commission establishing depreciation rates
for telephone companies, state control over -such rates
rema'ns unimpaired. We are not called upon now to
consider the effect upon state power of such rates when
adopted, or, in view of the state of the record, to consider
other objections to the order of the State Commission
fixing for appellant a composite depreciation rate of

3

.

Affirmed.

