682

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U. S.

to deal with the contract as if broken altogether. A loose
practice has been growing up whereby the breach on such
occasions is spoken of as anticipatory, whereas in truth
it is strictly present, though with consequences effective
upon performance in the future. The declaration in the
case at hand makes a showing of a present breach. It
does not make a showing of a breach so wilful and material as to make acceleration of future benefits essential
to the attainment of present reparation. HelgarCorporation v. Warner's Features,Inc., supra.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY CO. v. NORTH
CAROLINA EX EEL. MAXWELL, COMMISSIONER
OF REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 610. Argued March 6, 1936.-Decided March 30. 1936.
1. For ascertaining the net income of an interstate railway taxable
within a particular State, a formula allocating operating revenues
and operating expenses to the lines within that State by applying
the average mileage prorate of the entire railway system, is generally speaking valid, though it may produce unconstitutional
results in particular instances. P. 684.
2. A railway claiming that the use of such a formula operated
arbitrarily to attribute net income to its lines within the State
out of proportion to the income earned by them and thus in effect
to tax income derived from its business outside of the State, was
under the burden of proving this clearly; and the burden was not
satisfied by proof that the lines in question were exceptionally
expensive to operate unaccompanied by evidence to combat the
possibility that they produced revenue correspondingly above the
system average. P. 686.
208 N. C. 397; 181 S. E. 248, affirmed.

N. & W. RY. CO. v. NO. CAROLINA.
682

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a judgment in favor of the State in a suit

by the Railway Company to recover money exacted as
income taxes.
Mr. F. M. Rivinus, with whom Messrs. Theodore W.
Reath, W. W. Coze, Murray Allen, and Burton Craige
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. A. A. F. Seawell, Attorney General of North Carolina, with whom Mr. Harry McMullan, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr. I. M. Bailey were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether a statute of North Carolina
laying a tax upon the net income of interstate railway
companies has been so applied to the appellant as to violate the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United
States.
The Norfolk & Western Railway Company, a Virginia
corporation, has lines of railway in North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky and Ohio. Its
lines in North Carolina are branches, connecting with the
main line at Roanoke, Lynchburg and Abingdon, and running from those points of junction to Winston-Salem,
Durham and Elkland. For the years 1927, 1928, and 1929,
it made return to the Commissioner of Revenue of North
Carolina that it had no taxable income. The Commissioner notified the company that the returns were erroneous, and made reassessments as follows: for 1927,
$29,727.04; for 1928, $27,481.57; and for 1929, $29,213.10,
in all $86,421.71. The amount so fixed was paid, and
this suit was brought in accordance with an applicable
statute to recover back the payment. The Superior
Court of Wake County, refusing to confirm the report of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

a referee in favor of the taxpayer, gave judgment for the
state. The Supreme Court of North Carolina affirmed,
208 N. C. 397; 181 S. E. 248, and the case is here upon
appeal. Judicial Code, ยง 237, 28 U. S. C., ยง 344.
The net income of interstate railways doing business i4
North Carolina is taxed in accordance with the following
formula (Public Laws of 1927, chapter 80, ยง 312; Public Laws of 1929, chapter 345, ยง 312): "And when their
business is in part within and in part without the State,
their net income within this State shall be ascertained by
taking their gross 'operating revenues' within the State,
including in their gross 'operating revenues' within this
State the equal mileage proportion within this State of
their interstate business, and deducting from their gross
'operating revenues' the proportionate average of 'operating expenses' or 'operating ratio' for their whole business, as shown by the Interstate Commerce Commission
standard classification of accounts." The formula, thus
adopted is not void upon its face. Pittsburgh,C., C. &
St. Louis R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 430, 431; State
Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 608, 611; Louisville
Board of Trade v. Indianapolis, C. & S. Traction Co., 34
I. C. C. 640, 642; Low Moor Iron Co. v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 42 I. C. C. 221, 227; cf. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co. v. Doughton, 262 U. S. 413. A division of revenues and costs in accordance with state lines can never
be made for a unitary business with more than approximate correctness. There is a tendency, none the less, for
rates to be so adjusted to expenses over different portions
of a system as to produce, when averages are considered,
a uniformity of net return, or a fair approach thereto.1
'See Huang, State Taxation of Railways in the United States,
Columbia University Press, 1928, pp. 97, 98, 100, 188, 189; cf. Seligman, Essays in Taxation, 9th ed., p. 283; Census Bureau Bulletin 21,
Commercial Valuation of Railway Operating Property in the U. S.:
1904, pp. 45, 50.

N. & W. RY. CO. v. NO. CAROLINA.
682

Opinion of the Court.

Thus mileage may have at times a relation to a tax upon
net income which it may not bear to a property tax or
even to one upon the value of a franchise. Cf. Rowley
v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 293 U. S. 102, 111; Wallace
v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66, 69. Taxpayer and state would
be swamped with administrative difficulties if left to
struggle through every case without the aid of a formula
of ready application. In the perplexities besetting the
process of assessment the statute is the outcome of a
reasonable endeavor to arrive at a. proportion of general
validity. Pittsburgh,C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Backus,
supra. No contention to the contrary is made by the
appellant.2
This is not to say that the tax is valid as imposed. A
formula not arbitrary on its face or in its general operation may be unworkable or unfair when applied to a
particular railway in particular conditions. Cf. Hans
Rees' Sons v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123, 129, 132;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, 274 U. S. 76, 83, 88. A
segment of the line may operate under handicaps resulting from the nature of the traffic, the topography of the
country, the maladjustment or inadequacy of passenger
or freight tariffs in one district or another. As applied
to such a segment the average mileage prorate of the entire railway system may be an arbitrary test of the relation between revenue and expenses. Cf. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Department of Public Works, 268 U. S. 39,
44; Low Moor Iron Co. v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.,
supra. If this is made to appear with an ensuing burden on the taxpayer grossly in excess of the results of a
more accurate apportionment, the statute to that extent
cases of the class examined, including the present case, the
statutory formula is not invalid on its face without regard to the
particular circumstances of the taxpayer." Appellant's brief, p. 40.
"Clearly enough the Railway case must be proved specifically."
p. 41.
2"In

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

is an unconstitutional endeavor to tax the income of a
business in another jurisdiction. Hans Rees' Sons v.
North Carolina,supra.
Appellant now insists, as it insisted in the courts below, that the operating expenses for its North Carlina
branches were far in excess of those allowed by the Commissioner, who refused to depart from the statutory formula. There is evidence in the record giving support to
that position, though its weight is contested by counsel
for the state. If the evidence be accepted, the higher
cost may be attributed to the mountainous terrain and
the low density of traffic as well 'as to other causes which
it is needless to develop. Up to that point the Railway
took upon itself the burden of making out a case for the
rejection of the formula. There, however, it stopped, declining to go farther. From the testimony of its witnesses we learn that actual expenses were greater in North
Carolina than the average expenses apportioned to that
state on the basis of the ratio between state and system
mileage. We learn nothing from these witnesses as to
the ratio between revenues, average and actual. For all
that appears in the case developed by the Railway, actual
gross revenues in North Carolina may have been so far in
excess of average gross revenues computed under the statute as to neutralize the discrepancy between actual and
average costs of operation. If such a counterbalance
exists, appellant has not been injured through the application of the formula.
The state took up the case where the railway put it
down. Witnesses for the state maintain that through
the application of the formula the gross revenues of operation are underestimated to a greater extent than operating costs. They tell us that the effect of the rejection
of the formula will be to allocate to the state 159% of the
revenues produced by applying it. In support of that
conclusion they make elaborate studies and analyses,

N. & W. RY. CO. v. NO. CAROLINA.
682

Opinion of the Court.

which are exhibits in the case. From their testimony it
appears that the general level of rates in territory classified as Southern is higher than that in territory classified
as Northern or "Official." Cf. Sloss-Sheffield Steel &
Iron Co. v. Louisville & N. R. 'Co., 35 I. C. C. 460, 467;
Corporation Commission v. Norfolk & Western R. Co., 19
I. C. C. 303, 311; Southern Class Rate Investigation, 100
I. C. C. 513, 520, 645, 671; 109 I. C. C. 300, 324; 113
I. C. C. 200; 128 I. C. C. 567, 580. There is emphasis
besides on a concession by the railway that the average
system revenue per mile of line is only five times greater
than that for the North Carolina branches, though the
traffic density for the system is seven and a half times
greater. Accountants for the railway criticize the studies
and analyses with the accompanying computations as
defective and misleading. They also take the position
that there is no method of allocating revenues with any
greater approach to certainty than by means of a mileage
prorate. Whether for that reason or some other, they
have not made an attempt to ascertain receipts, no mattes
how approximately, by any other method, as assuredly
they would have tried to do if the statutory formula had
been abolished altogether. By implication, if not expressly, the trial judge refused to yield assent to their
position. Without findirig the exact figures either for
revenue or for expenses, he approved, at least in its main
outline, the position of the state. "The evidence seems
persuasive that if the actual gross operating revenues
should be determined, the amount returned by the defendant [i. e., the railway] would be increased by a much
greater proportion than the operating expenses in North
Carolina are increased over the operating expenses determined by the use of -the statutory formula." Upon
appeal to the Supreme Court of the state, this finding
was approved.

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

We are unable to accept the argument for the appellant that its burden was discharged when it gave evidence
of the ratio between actual and average expenses while
keeping silent as to the ratio between actual and average
receipts. The statutory formula is not framed on an
assumption that gross operating revenues are uniform
actually for every mile throughout the system. It is not'
framed on an assumption that for every mile of the system there is uniformity of expense. Such assumptions,
if made, would be contrary to notorious facts. What the
formula does assume is this, that barring exceptional conditions there will be throughout the system such an .average relation between revenues and expenses as will cause
the net income of a part to vary, in proportion to the
mileage, with the net income of the whole. The implications of the formula being what they are, a taxpayer does
not escape the application of the statute by evidence
directed to only one of the related terms. Its evidence
to be effective must be directed to each of them alike, for
only thus can the assumed relation between them be
proved to be unreal. This taxpayer disclaims the duty
and even the endeavor to respond to such a test. It
varies the numerator of the fraction while accepting the
denominator.
A finding that the statute, though fair upon its face, is
oppressive toward the railway in its practical operation
cannot rest upon so fragmentary and partial a showing
of facts. We must bear in mind steadily that the burden is on the taxpayer to make oppression manifest by
clear and cogent evidence. Underwood Typewriter Co.
v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113, 121; Maxwell v. KentCoffey. Mfg. Co., 204 N. C. 365, 372, 374, 168 S.E. 397;
291 U. S.642; Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton,Ltd. v. State Tax
Comm'n, 266 U. S. 271, 280, 283. For 1927, it has had
to pay a certain tax, for 1928 another, for 1929, another,
a total of $86,421.71. Would it have had to pay less if

N. & W. RY. CO. v. NO. CAROLINA.
682

Opinion of the Court.

net income had been ascertained without reference to
mileage? Would the difference have been so great as to
overpass the bounds of reason? In the evidence for the
railway, there is no answer to those questions. On the
other hand, the judge, who was the appointed trier of
the facts, found the evidence for the state persuasive that
the tax would have been as heavy and even heavier if the
test of a mileage prorate had been excluded from the
reckoning. The railway does not help its case greatly by
its criticism of this evidence in one feature or another.
The computations for the state may have been charged
here and there with errors and omissions. They were
not shattered so completely that the trier of the facts
could not build on them at all. The criticisms too were
not invulnerable, but were subject to the possibility of
explanation or rejoinder. Indeed, apart from the computations, there was significance, if not compulsion, in
facts admitted by the railway, though with the addition
of many a gloss supposed to minimize their force. What
weight should be ascribed to the whole composite mass
was thus an inference of fact for the judge appointed to
the task, and may not be disposed of here as an inference
of law. All this becomes the plainer when we recall that
the state in presenting computations did not lift the burden from the railway of satisfying the court, after all the
evidence was in, that it was a victim of oppression. If
different or supplementary computations were needful to
that end, the railway, not the state, was under a duty to
submit them.
In what has been written we have assumed that revenue can be apportioned between one state and another
by a method more accurate than by that of a mileage
prorate, however useful such r formula may be in expressing a relation between revenue and expenses. The
appellant denies, though, it seems, rather guardedly, that
the possibility exists. Even so, the trier of the facts was

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.&

at liberty to discredit the denial. There was impeachment of the denial in the evidence for the state. There
was impeachment as effective in the failure of appellant
to lay before the court such studies as its accountants
could supply, figuring out a fair apportionment to the
best of its ability and then appraising the results. Something more was to be expected in the way of genuine endeavor before a sweeping non possumus could be accepted as conclusive. We do not now determine how incapacity, if made out, would affect the application of the
statutory formula. For present purposes it suffices that
there is no such showing now.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

