OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

ASHWANDER ET AL. v. TENNESSEE VALLEY
AUTHORITY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 403 and 404. Argued December 19, 20, 1935-Decided February 17, 1936.
1. Owners of a minority of the preferred shares, with voting power,
in a corporation have standing to sue in its right to prevent the
carrying out of a contract executed in its name by the directors
with an agency of the United States, upon the grounds that the
contract is unconstitutional and that its performance will cause
irreparable injury to the interests of the corporation. P. 318.
In order to establish the stockholders' right of suit, it is not
necessary to show that, in executing the contract, the directors
acted with fraudulent intent or under legal duress or ultra vires
of the corporation. In the absence of an adequate legal remedy,
it is enough to show the breach of duty involved in the injurious,
illegal action. Th;-may consist in yielding to illegal government
demands. The fa.:, that the directors, in the exercise of their
judgment, resolved to comply with such demands, is not an adequate ground for denying to the stockholders an opportunity to
contest their validity.
2. The opportunity to resort to equity, in the absence of an adequate legal remedy, in order to prevent illegal transactions by
those in control of corporate properties, should not be curtailed
because of reluctance to decide constitutional questions. P. 321.
3. Estoppel in equity must rest on substantial grounds of prejudice
or change of position-not on technicalities. P. 322.
4. Where a contract between an electric power corporation and the
Tennessee Valley Authority, a federal agency, for the sale by the
former to the latter of transmission lines leading from a government dam where electricity was generated, was attacked in behalf
of the corporation upon the ground that legislation by Congress
purporting to empower the federal agency was unconstitutional,held that the corporation was not estopped by having bought
electricity of the Government at the dam before and after the
passage of the legislation; or by having applied to a state public
service commission for approval of the contract; or by a delay
of some months in the bringing of a stockholders' suit to set the
contract aside. P. 323.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

289

Syllabus.

The principle that one who accepts the benefit of a statute may
not question its constitutionality, held inapplicable.
5. The 'judicial power does not extend to the determination of
abstract questions. P. 324.
6. The Act providing for declaratory judgments does not attempt
to change the essential requisites for the exercise of judicial
power. By its terms, it applies to "cases of actual controversy,"
meaning a controversy, of a justiciable nature, thus excluding
advisory decrees upon hypothetical states of fact. P. 325.
7. The dam across the Tennessee River at Muscle Shoals, known as
the Wilson Dam, was constructed pursuant to the National Defense
Act of June 3, 1916, in the exercise of constitutional functions
of the Federal Government, (a) as a means of assuring abundant
electric energy for the manufacture of munitions in the event of
war; (b) to improve the navigability of the river. P. 326.
8. Judicial notice is taken of the international situation existing
when the Act of 1916 was passed. Indisputably, the Wilson Dam
and its auxiliary plants, including a hydro-electric power plant,
are, and were intended to be, adapted to the purposes of national
defense. P. 327.
9. The power to regulate interstate commerce includes the power
to remove obstructions to navigation from the navigable rivers
of the United States. P. 328.
10. In the execution of the Wilson Dam project for.the constitutional
purposes above stated, the United States acquired full title to the
dam site, with all riparian rights. Water power, an inevitable
incident of the construction of the dam, came into the exclusive
control of the Federal Government, and was convertible into
electric energy. Held:
(1) That the water power, the right to convert it into electric
energy, and the electric energy thus produced, constitute property
belonging to the United States. P. 330.
(2) That this electric energy, so produced at the Wilson Dam,
is property of which Congress may dispose pursuant to the
authority expressly granted by § 3, Art. IV, of the Constitution.
P. 330.
(3) The Ninth and Tenth Amendments do not apply to rights
which are expressly granted by the Constitution to the Federal
Government. P. 330.
(4) The authority of Congress to aispose of electric energy
generated at the Wilson Dam, is not limited to a surplus necessarily created in the course of making munitions of War or operat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

ing the works for navigation purposes, but extends to the remainder of the available energy, which would otherwise be lost or
wasted. P. 335.
(5) The method of disposing of government property under the
constitutional provision (§ 3, Art. IV) must be appropriate to the
nature of the property, and be adopted in the public interest as
distinguished from private or personal ends; and, the Court
assumes, it must be consistent with the foundation principles of
our dual system of Government and must not be contrived to
govern the concerns reserved to the States. P. 338.
11. The Government, acting through its agency, the Tennessee Valley
Authority, undertook to dispose of electric energy generated at the
Wilson Dam by sale to a power company, by interchange of
energy with the company, and by purchase from the company
of certain transmission lines leading from the dam and providing
the means of distributing such energy to a large population within
fifty miles. The power company had theretofore been buying
energy from the Government at the dam and was apparently the
only customer to whom it could be sold there. The purchase of
the lines was to enable the Government to seek a wider market.
Held:
(1) That there was no basis for concluding that the contract
exceeded the federal power to dispose of property, and invaded
rights reserved to the State or to the people. P. 338.
(2) The power company had no constitutional right to insist
that the energy should be sold to it at the dam or go to waste.
P. 339.
The decision on the constitutional question is strictly limited
to the right of the Government to dispose of the energy itself,-which is simply the mechanical energy, incidental to falling water
at this dam, converted into electric energy, susceptible of transmission,--and the right to acquire these transmission lines as a
facility for disposing of that energy. The Government rightly conceded at the bar that it was without constitutional authority to
acquire or dispose of electric energy except as it comes into being
in the operation of works constructed in the exercise of some power
delegated to the United States. The question whether it might constitutionally use the energy generated at Wilson Dam in carrying on
manufacturing or commercial 'enterprises not related to the purposes for which the Government was established, is not involved
in this case; nor is the question whether, for disposing of the
energy, the Government could acquire or operate local or urban

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

291

Argument for Petitioners.

distribution systems. The Court expresses no opinion as to such
questions, nor as to the status of any other dam or power development in the Tennessee Valley, whether connected with or apart
from the Wilson Dam, nor as to the validity of the Tennessee
Valley Authority Act or of the claims made in the pronouncements and program of that Authority, apart from the questions
discussed in relation to the particular provisions of the contract
above mentioned affecting the Power Company. P. 339.

78 F. (2d) 578, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 562, to review a decree reversing
a decree of the District Court, by which that court, at the
suit of preferred stockholders of the Alabama Power Company, set aside a contract that had been entered into by
the Company and the Tennessee Valley Authority involving the sale and exchange of electric power generated at
a government dam, and the acquisition by the Authority
of certain transmission lines from the Power Company.
Messrs. Forney Johnston and James M. Beck, with
whom Mr. Joseph F. Johnston was on the brief, for petitioners.
This proceeding presents for review the constitutional
validity of an effort through a corporate agency of the
Federal Government to bring about a coup d'etat that
would commit the Government permanently to the manufacture and distribution of electricity throughout an initial region comprising approximately one-fifth of the
population of the United States.
The effort of the agency is to commit the Government
to this commercial program by actionable contracts, to
endure, without reserved right of cancellation, for a
generation.
The agency has admitted on this record that its proposed additions to the power supply present an economic
problem of the first magnitude.
The program, if established as a precedent by this coup,
or by custom of the Constitution, or by decision on this
record, would open every essential industry and service

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

to direct and permanent governmental competition, by
means of preparedness plants, operated commercially
while awaiting governmental use.
It would also, in a proceeding to which the States are
not parties, establish the pretended right of the Government to extract by a commercial manufacturing business,
from every navigable stream and headwater tributary,
the entire energy of the flowing waters, an asset in the
stream, heretofore regarded as vested inalienably in the
States and their citizens, subject only to regulation in
the interest of navigation.
The Government has sought no compact among the
Valley States; it has silenced the state administrations
with a revocable stipend. The basis of the case asserted
by the Government is that by improving navigation the
Government acquires a connodity or proprietary right in
the use of the surplus waters not even in a discretionary
sense necessary for navigation, and may compel their
passage through commercial generating units owned by
the Government, which has no physical or functional
relation to navigation.
The record shows that the program is being pressed in
the region by this corporate agency by arbitrary and oppressive methods of competition and by action and commitment wholly inconsistent with federal function; for
the admitted purpose of accomplishing primary objectives which have no relation to any governmental use or
function.
The service proposed will result in a monopoly &felectric service by the Federal Government in any area to be
taken on. by this Board. The establishment of the program means the displacement of any practical regulation
of utility functions in the service area thus to be taken
over or controlled by the Government. It would displace the existing processes of regulation by substituting
a corporate anomaly of the Federal Government, sub-

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

293

Argument for Petitioners.

jected to no standard or restraint, with unlimited discretion highly legislative in character.
Petitioners challenge its validity in every aspect, in its
entirety, and in detail, asserting that the program and
all of its essentials, the means employed to promote it, its
dominant objectives, and its arbitrary methods, do not
consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution.
Powers not expressly granted to the Federal Government cannot be implied or regarded as incidental where
their, exercise would be inconsistent with affirmative
powers granted by the Constitution or with its letter and
spirit. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421;
Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5, 17; Bailey v. Drexel
FurnitureCo., 259 U. S. 20; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247
U. S. 251; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495.
Under the test formulated by Chief Justice Marshall,
the means employed by Congress must consist with the
letter and the spirit of the Constitution. It is, after all,
not solely a question whether the legislative intent was to
regulate affairs reserved to the State. There is the further question whether, regardless of intent, the statute
is in fact consistent with the theory of the dual system, or
plainly and palpably crosses the line. Wisconsin v.
Illinois,278 U. S. 367, 415; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533, 541.
The express powers delegated to Congress must be
exercised subject to the restrictions implicit in the other
provisions of the Constitution. Thus, legislation under
the commerce clause must be consistent with the Fifth
and Tenth Amendments. Monongahela Navigation Co.
v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v.
Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505, 571-572; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161, 180; United States v.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry., 282 U. S. 311, 327; Keller v.
United States, 213 U. S. 138, 148.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

The war power must give heed to the Fifth Amendment. United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81,
88. Even the power of federal taxation must respect
these Amendments. Collector v. Day, 11 'Wall. 113, 124;
Indian Motocycde Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570.
The means and instrumentalities challenged on this
record do not rest upon the Constitution. They rest in
part upon an Act of Congress, the prototype of which was
vetoed by two Presidents, was rejected by successive previous Congresses, was adopted over the most earnest protest during a period of national disaster and tension, and
which constitutes a departure from a tradition unbroken
for a century and a half. They rest in part upon the discretion of a board of three men with practically unlimited
power.
Between them, this board and a majority in Congress
are undertaking to commit the Federal Government to a
course from which, in fact, there can be no retreat; to a
commercial venture within state domain in a field which,
over the 150 years of our history, has been recognized as
the constitutional domain of the States.
The negation of the delegation of legislative power is a
necessary implication attaching to the legislative power.
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 164;
Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388; Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; Jackson v.
Jackson, 90 Fla. 563; People v. Brown, 203 N. Y. 136, 142.
A commercial program undertaken by an agency of
Congress based upon a series of long term contracts devised by a federal board, which irrevocably commit the
Government to a course of action intended by the Constitution to remain subject to continuing legislative duty and
discretion, does not "consist with the Constitution" and is
illegal. Louisville & Nashville Ry. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467; Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 294 U. S. 240.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

295

Argument for Petitioners.

Commitment of the Government by fixed contracts to
the permanent business of commercial manufacture of
electricity and rendition of regional utility service within
state domain is intrinsically alien to federal function.
South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 457; Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 8 F. Supp. 893;
9 F. $upp. 965; Tennessee PublicService Co. v. Knoxville,
Chancery Court, Knox County, Tenn., July 17, 1935;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; License Tax Cases, 5
Wall. 462; Kidd v. Pearson,128 U. S. 1, 24.
Congress may not invade the field of action reserved
to the States and the people under the guise of exercising
substantive federal powers. Employers Liability Cases,
207 U. S. 463; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251;
Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hilt v. Wallace, 259
U. S. 44; Trusler v. Crooks, 269 U. S. 475; Linder v.
United States, 268 U. S. 5.
This invasion under claim of implied power is comparable to the futile effort to take property desired for
public convenience under the guise of regulation (Pennsylvania Mining Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393) or under
the commerce clause or performance of international obligations (InternationalPaper Co. v. United States, 282
U. S. 399).
The National Defense Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 166, 215
(the debates at the inception of this matter may be found
in Cong. Rec., vol. 53, pt. 5, pp. 5146-9, 5687, 5706, 5956,
5957, 5962, 6031, 6032, 6120, etc.; they are also reported
in compact form in Powell, Cong. Debates, pp. 752 et
seq.) was the initial step in American history toward
establishing the principle of federal commercial operation
of "surplus capacity" resulting from intentional construction of plants for commercial operation, or from construction for an actual, or supposed, or miscalculated,
government requirement which has become spent or suspended. All such capacity so used is in fact commercial
capacity, however acquired.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

The Convention declined to permit the inclusion in the
Constitution of a clause authorizing Congress to grant
corporate charters, lest it be assumed that the power to
incorporate carried general jurisdiction to authorize charters not confined to the powers expressly granted. Madison's Journal, Aug. 18; Farrand, Record, vol. II, p. 325.
It deliberately declined to include an express power to the
Federal Government to grant any charter whatever for
a proprietary purpose. The contention now is that the
Federal Government may discharge all proprietary purposes through the device of creating a corporation to "dispose of" government property.
It is not possible to reconcile this extraordinary conception with the known attitude of the Convention and of
the ratifying States. It cannot be reconciled with the
established reason for the adoption of the Tenth Amendment. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 90.
The indispensable essence of the Constitution is that
the meaning and intent of its provisions, as they are interpreted by this Court as of the time of its adoption, shall
not be changed except by amendment. South Carolina
v. United States, supra, dissent, p. 472; Dred Scott v.
Sandford, 19 How. 393, 426; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.
244, 290-291.
The Tenth Amendment was ratified in 1790-91, and
was to all intents and purposes a part of the original document. It expressed then, and expresses now, the conception that the States must not be subordinated in their
internal affairs to federal control as to matters not expressly delegated. Smith v. Turner, 7 How. '283, 428.
The disciplining and regulation of local utilities, by
competition or monopoly, the promotion of public ownership of utilities to function under control of the Government, the desire to supplement regulation by state authorities and state processes, the general desire to promote the industrial, social and economic welfare of the

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

297

Argument for Petitioners.

public in state domain in matters reserved to the States,
are not functions of the Federal Government, however
exigent they may be deemed by Congress. Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S.495; Railroad
Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330; Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416; License Tax Cases, 5
Wall, 462, 470.
It is difficult to conceive of any function which is by
nature and tradition more completely local and internal
to the States than the function of regulating and operating local utility service. Public Utility Comm'n v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83; Utah Power
& Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Public Utilities
Comm'n v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236; East Ohio Gas Co. v.
Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465; South Carolina Power
Co. v. Tax Commission, 52 F. (2d) 515, 524, aff'd 286
U. S.525.
The desire for revenue does not authorize the Federal
Government to commit itself to engage in a permanent
commercial business to earn it.
The property clause of the Constitution (Art. IV, §
3, cl. 2), does not authorize permanent operation of a
commercial business by the Federal Government.
The property clause is found in the Constitution, not
among the legislative powers, but among the clauses
dealing with the relations between the state and federal
governments.
"Clearly it does not grant to Congress any legislative
control over the States; and must, so far as they are concerned, be limited to authority over the property belonging to the United States within their limits." Kansas v.
Colorado,206 U. S., at p. 89.
The only power of exclusive legislation conferred upon
Congress by the Constitution is Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, relating
to the District of Columbia and places purchased by the
consent of the legislature of the State in which the same

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U. S.

shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals,
dock-yards and other needful buildings.
Not even in the public domain can Congress regulate
the public lands as a territorial legislature in such 'wise as
to impair the rights of the citizens and the States in
their traditional functions, as contemplated at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution. Kansas v. Colorado,
supra; Dred Scott v. Sandford, supra.
The genesis of the property clause and, notably, the rejection of a general welfare amendment by the Convention, make clear that wide commercial operations in state
domain were not contemplated. Charles Warren, The
Making of the Constitution, pp. 599-600; Dred Scott v.
Sandford, 19 How. 393, 436, 514.
It is absurd to say that this clause was intended to
open up the States to the destructive possibility of federal
commercial operations, carrying by necessary implication
the power of monopoly.
To assume that the Constitution meant any such result, would be to condemn the personnel of the Convention to universal derision' This is not a case where the
principles of the Constitution are to be applied to new
conditions. The Federal Government could, by direct
operation of the public lands, have taken every domestic
and foreign market in every commodity from the people
of the States, if ownership of land in trust for national
purposes carried authority to operate commercially.
That action would have dried up the tax resources of the
States. Its possibility could not have been contemplated
or authorized.
The proposal is to convert the power in the stream into
transportable form, thereby exhausting it from the stream,
transport the converted product 250 miles and sell it
commercially. When that is done throughout the river,
every ounce of water power has been wrung from it by the
Federal Government and taken away from the State and

ASHWANDER v.. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

299

Argument for Petitioners.

the people who own it, in as real and final a sense as was
proposed on behalf of the Government, and denied by
this Court, in Kansas v: Colorado, supra.
Engaging in the business of operating the steam plant
for manufacture of electricity for commercial sale to the
public, at any place or for any term, is not a function of
"disposal" of the steam plant within the meaning of the
property clause.
Engaging in the business of manufacturing electricity
at the commercial units installed in the dams is not a
function of disposal either of the plants or of the "water
power," even if the Government had any proprietary
right to exhaust the power in the water as a commodity,
by concentrating the surplus waters of the stream.
The steam plants and the hydro-electric plants are all
that the Government owns or can dispose of. It cannot
sell or otherwise dispose of the duty of regulating navigation. It can lease emplacements in the dam. Subject to
limitations, it can lease hydro-generators and charge a
rental for the use, permitting the lessee, if also licensed
by the State, to get the benefit of the water flow, as
dispatched by the Government in the regulation of navigation and unfettered by any illegal commitment to antagonistic utility service.
The Government has no more authority to sell the
water or the right to the flow of the water than it has to
sell the right to coin money, or to guarantee that the
Bankruptcy Act will not be amended.
Not having the right to sell the transit of the water, it
cannot dispose of any such right as property. The Government, presumably, can free navigation flumes in the
Columbia River of salmon by trapping them out, but the
conception that it could go into the permanent business of
taking and packing and merchandizing throughout state
domain the salmon thus impounded, as a yardstick to
regulate the price of salmon in state domain, would be

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

regarded as preposterous. McCready v. United States,
94 U. S. 391, 394.
Even if running water could be regarded as property of
the Government, as tangible as coal or oil, it could not be
disposed of under the property clause of the Constitution
by regarding it as a base raw material to be transformed
by commercial manufacture into a diff rent product for
commercial sale to the public, any mor, than the Government can manufacture coal taken from the public domain
into coke and by-products, or into power, for commercial competitive sale in state domain,-if either the State
or its citizens who are injured object. It results from
even a superficial analysis that the Government owns no
"water power." It owns merely a plant, which it may
lease, and a sovereign duty which it may not.
A commitment of the Government, by long term contracts, to operate a permanent utility business would involve the Government in non-federal functions not-fairly
related to property. The commitment would involve
credit, executive and administrative personnel, and the
funds of the Government, in a permanent service nongovernmental in character. These permanent and extraordinary business services are not functions of the
ownership of property.
There is no right (except use for governmental purpose,
sale or disposal outright) in property in the Federal Government; nor any right to engage in proprietary business
under any power except where the business itself is in
direct furtherance of a substantive power.
"The United States cannot hold property as a monarch
may for private or personal purposes." Van Brocklin
v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 157, 158. Cf. 'United States v.
Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S.160, 170.
Power conferred upon a trustee to sell or to convey or
dispose of a trust estate carries no authority to engage
in business by means of the property. In re Corbin's

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

301

Argument for Petitioners.

Will, 91 N. Y. S. 797; Pearce v. Pearce, 199 Ala. 491;
Rifling v. Burnet, 47 F. (2d) 859.
This Court asserted in United States v. Gratiot, 14 Pet.
526, that the power to dispose of government property
includes the right to lease mineral properties for a rental, payable in smelted ore (lead) desired by the War Department. It said: "There can be no apprehension of
any encroachments upon state rights by the creation of a
numerous tenantry within their borders, as has been so
strenuously urged in the argument." (p. 538) It is significant also that the Court noted that the-statutory authority under which the lease was made was 'qimited to
a short period, so as not to interfere with the power of
Congress to make other disposition of the mines should
they think proper so to do."
Here Congress has not made a lease for a long or short
period. Actually the commitment of the properties by
TVA to a permanent and continuing service under actionable, non-assignable contracts is an interference with disposal. It is therefore not a use or disposition of property under any definition of the term which "consists
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution."
The conduct of a permanent utility business is not a
function of conservation of government property.
So far as the property clause is concerned, there is no
basis whatever for stating that a steam-electric plant
or a hydro-electric plant are being "disposed of" or regulated by committing them permanently to the business
of manufacture in order to create a commodity, in
order, in turn, to "dispose of" that commodity, in order,
in turn, to regulate local utility service, finance and promote public ownership, or like non-federal functions.
Possible war uses for a product do not justify its commercial manufacture and sale by the Federal Government.
The so-called critical and strategic war materials reasonably necessary for military purposes in time of war

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

or for the sustenance or war psychology of the civilian
population, are innumerable. Every essential industrial
plant is a potential war requirement, within the discretion of Congress. Plants for the processing of these materials are plainly within reach of military preparedness,
so far as review by the courts is concerned, in the absence of a palpable abuse of the war power. Highland v.
Russell Car Co., 279 U. S. 253.
Orderly and bona fide liquidation of war investments is
clearly distinguishable. Clallam County v. U. S. Spruce
Corp., 263 U. S. 341.
There are fundamental distinctions between acts of
ownership, or the disposal or lease of property, and the
function of engaging in business by means of the property. The corporate income tax cases sufficiently illustrate the point to require no further documentation. The
constitutional cleavage is clear.
The commerce clause does not authorize the Federal
Government to engage in a commercial business. Detroit
InternationalBridge Co. v. Tax Appeal Board, 294 U. S.
83; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165;
South CarolinaPower Co. v. Tax Commission, 52 F. (2d)
515, 524, affirmed, 286 U. S. 525.
Protection of commerce of the States from interferences within the Nation was a basic motive underlying the
draft of the Constitution. Charles Warren, The Making
of the Constitution, pp. 461, 462, 567-589; id., p. 580;
III Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, p. 463;
id., p. 478; MonongahelaNavigation Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 312; United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171
U. S., at p. 571.
Production is exclusively within the domain of the
States and the people. Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S.
251, 276; Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5; Panama
Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388; Schechter Poultry
Corp. .v. United States, 295 U. S. 495; Utah Power &
Light Co. v. Plost, 286 U. S. 165.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

303

Argument for Petitioners.

The question whether the Government, in impounding
more water in a navigable stream than is necessary to be
manipulated for navigation, can thereupon appropriate
such water and make it the basis of a general manufacturing and marketing business, is not a question of navigation or of the commerce power. It does not warrant serious discussion under the commerce clause. Wisconsin
v. Illinois, 278 U. S. 367, 396. Distinguishing Missouri
v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416; United States v. McCullagh,
221 Fed. 288; and United States v. Shauver, 214 Fed. 154.
The power to regulate commerce is not the power to
engage in and monopolize the business or function regulated. Cf. South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S.
437; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360; Helvering v.
Powers, 293 U. S. 214; and Osborne v. Bank, 9 Wheat.
738.
Any pretense that commercial production, transmission
or sale of electricity is necessary to the functioning of the
locks or the regulation of navigation is not only totally
insubstantial, but it is repudiated by the terms of the Act
and the organization of the Tennessee Valley Authority
itself.
The contentions of the Valley Authority, and the basis
of the decision below, cannot be reconciled with the decisions of ttis Court as to the rights of the State and its
grantees in the waters of navigable streams. Pollard's
Lessee v. Hagan,3 How. 212; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.
1, 43; Portof Seattle v. Oregon-WashingtonRy., 255 U. S.
56; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; United States v.
Arizona, 295 U. S. 174; United States v. West Virginia,
295 U. S. 463. Distinguishing Arizona v. California,283
U. S. 423.
It was settled in Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, that the
States, in their capacity as proprietors in trust for their
citizens, cannot by grant, treaty, or waiver, divest themselves of this sovereign duty and responsibility, even to

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

the Federal Government. Mobile TransportationCo. v.
Mobile, 153 Ala. 409. That which cannot be accomplished directly cannot be accomplished by transitory acceptance by a State of the anomalous and terminable
stipend prescribed by § 13 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act. United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Water
Power Co., 229 U. S. 53, distinguished. See Wisconsin v.
Illinois, 278 U. S. 367.
The decisions of this Court have settled beyond argument that the Government has no proprietary or commodity right in the waters; that it has only a right of
regulation that must be related to navigation and not
arbitrary, Wisconsin v. Illinois, supra; within bounds that
respect the Fifth Amendment, Monongahela Navigation
Co. v. United States, supra; and the Tenth, Kansas v.
Colorado, supra. Distinguishing Kaukauna Water Co. v.
Green Bay Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254 and Green Bay Canal
Co. v. Patten PaperCo., 172 U. S. 58; 173 U. S. 179.
Active participation by the Government in the control
of the proposed defendant municipal systems, and its
proven objective in financing these systems, renders the
proposed investments dynamic and illegal, without reference to their intrinsic invalidity as appropriations for nonfederal purposes.
The Federal Government cannot make appropriations
and investments for purposes which are beyond its
power of affirmative action. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.,
at p. 199.
Even as res integra and without the inexorable history
of the clause in the Convention to force the same conclusion, the phrase "common defense and general welfare"
appearing in the tax power at the head of a section enumerating the limited functions of the Federal Government, could not be regarded as other than comprehensive
terms. to extend the taxing power to the range of expressly delegated functions, which alone the Convention

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORIT Y.
288

305

Argument for Petitioners.

had undertaken to entrust to the general Government.
The familiar history of the phraseology, lifted out of the
old Articles and plainly referable to the debts "contracted
in the common defense," leaves Madison's account of the
evolution of the clause documented beyond reasonable
dispute. No one could have supposed in that day that
taxation and spending were substantive ends of government. The theory of redistribution through taxation has
only recently been evolved. Loan Association v. Topeka,
20 .Wall. 655; Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; Cole
v. La Grange, 113 U. S. 1, 9; Green v. Frazier, 253 U. S.
233; Dodge v. Mission Township, 107 Fed. 821; Lowell
v. Boston, 111 Mass. 454.
The delegates to the Convention were men of the most
finished discrimination in the use of words. It is not
credible that they would have included, in a clause relating solely to the raising of revenue for all functions of
government, a power provision so broad as to make the
subsequent enumeration of powers useless and to undermine the. organic theory of federal limitation.
Whatever be the conclusion as to the scope of the
general welfare provision in the tax clause, there is no
opinion deserving consideration which supports the contention that the spending power authorizes Congress to
follow the appropriation and engage or participate in
nondelegated functions by means of the instrumentality
created by the appropriation. 2 Stry, Commentaries
on the Constitution, 153-154; Kansas Gas & Electric Co.
v. Independenc , 79 F. (2d) 638; 1 Willoughby, Const.
L., 2d ed., § 61, pp. 97-98; Burdick, Amer. Const. L., 181.
Where the dominant objective of an Act of Congress,
or of an administrative program undertaken by the Federal Government, is to regulate or control matters reserved by the Ninth and Tenth Amendments, the Act or
transaction is illegal. "Congress cannot, under the pretext of executing delegated power, pass laws for the ac-

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

297 U.S.

complishment of objects not intrusted to the Federal Government." Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 541;
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423; Linder v.
United States, 268 U. S. 5; Bailey v. Drexel Furniture
Co., 259 U. S. 20; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251;
Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 366; Trusler v. Crooks, 269 U. S.
475; Chastleton Corp. v. Sinclair,264 U. S. 543; Magnano
Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40; United States v. One Ford
Coupe, 272 U. S. 32; Pollock v. Farmers Loan c: Trust
Co., 157 U. S. 429.
The contract is not only for the primary purpose of
acquiring going utility properties, with attached customers, for continued operation and enlargement by TVA,
as part of its commercial utility net work. Its express
and necessary purpose and effect are to set up a monopoly
of electric service within its territorial area, by an agency
not subject to regulation by and withih the State of
Alabama; an agency to control rates and dominate
service.
There is a vital distinction between the commercial
powers, including competitive functions, which may be
granted to a private business corporation created or
adoptedas a federal agency, and exercise of such powers
by the Government. Even in the case of federal agency
corporations, privately owned and operating for profit,
Chief Justice Marshall asserted that the corporate powers
granted must have relation to the federal objective.
Osborne v. Bank, 9 Wheat., at p. 860.
So-called precedents where no remedy existed are not
judicial precedents. Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S.
447; Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 170-171;
United States v. Boyer, 85 Fed. 425; Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, 691; Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 190, 204;
Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 306-311; Miles
PlantingCo. v. Carlisle,5 App. D. C. 138, 161.
The action of the Valley Authority in furtherance of
its program is characterized by arbitrary administration

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

307

Argument for Respondent.

of the power and resources of the Government and constitutes illegal action and competition.
The Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933, as
amended, is unconstitutional because of the delegation
of legislative power.
This stockholders' suit was properly entertained.
Mr. John Lord O'Brian and Solicitor General Reed,
with whom Attorney General Cummings, Mr. James Lawrence Fly, General Solicitor, Tennessee Valley Authority,
and Messrs. Paul A. Freund and Allan D. Jones, and
Miss Bessie Margolin were on the brief, for the Tennessee
Valley Authority, respondent.
The petitioners as minority stockholders have no standing to maintain this suit. In the first place, they are
estopped to assert a cause of action on behalf of their corporation, the Alabama Power Company. That Company
has purchased Wilson Dam electric energy from the
United States since 1926, continuing its purchases after
the enactment of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act
in May 1933, and later pursuant to the contract of January 4, 1934. These purchases were wholly voluntary.
One who thus accepts the benefits of a statute is estopped
to assert that it is invalid. Great Falls Manufacturing
Co. v. Attorney General, 124 U. S. 581; Wall v. Parrot
Silver & Copper Co., 244 U. S. 407; St. Louis Co. v.
PrendergastCo., 260 U. S. 469; Buck v. Kuykendall, 267
U. S. 307, 316-317. The Act makes available to others
the benefits long enjoyed by the Alabama Power Company. No stockholder made protest until seven months
after the execution of the contract in suit. Meanwhile,
the Authority had undertaken substantial operations and
obligations in reliance on the contract.
Secondly, the petitioners have established no basis for
the maintenance of this suit upon the refusal of the management to sue. The District Court ruled that the con-

, 308

3OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respqndent.

297 U.S.

tract. was not assailable for fraud, negligence, or duress;
and that ,ruling was plainly correct. Nor were the corporate directors guiltj'.of abandonment of discretion; they
acted for the best "interests of the corporation and disclaimed any opinion that the Act was unconstitutional.
The contract was not ultra vires of the corporation. The
theory of the District Court that equity may enjoin a
contract for the sold reason that it is in furtherance of an
illegal Purpose, irrespective of damage, can have no application where a statute is attacked on constitutional
grounds. Nor can the suit be maintained to enjoin competition, since the contract limited the activities of the
Authority during the life of the agreement to that area
served by the lines purchased, and the activities within
that area are consensual and not competitive. The claim
for declaratory relief from possible future competition
upon the expiration of the contract does not give petitioners standing to maintain this suit.
None of the cases of stockholders' suits relied on by
the petitioners lends support to their position. Cf. Hawes
v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450; Corbus v. Gold Mining Co., 187
U. S. 455; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331; Hill v. Wallace,
259 U. S. 44; Pollock v. Farmers Loan & -Trust Co., 157
U. S. 429; Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co., 255
U. S. 180. In each of those cases, there was a showing
of ultra vires conduct, or duress, or abandonment of discretion, or irreparable injury to the corporation resulting
from the application of a taxing or regulatory statute.
If it may be assumed that petitioners are properly be-fore the Court, we maintain that the narrw issue involved
in-this case is the validity of the contract of January 4,
,1934, which depends upon the right of the Authority to
dispose of the Wilson Dam power alone. Wilson Dam is
a dam sui generis. It was constructed to serve two constitutional purposes, navigation and national defense.
The generating equipment was installed particularly for
national defense purposes. Since the construction of the

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

309

Argument for Respondent.

dam and thie power plant those facilities have been maintained and are still being maintained in aid of both constitutional functions.
The legislative background of the Act indicates that
it was designed to serve recognized federal functions. The
Act provides for operation of the Muscle Shoals properties, a vexatious legislative problem for many years, and
authorizes development of the entire Tennessee River
in the interest of navigation and flood control, a matter
of national concern for a century.
The navigation and flood control project embodied in
the Act includes dams now being constructed by the Authority, with which, we submit, this case is not concerned. It may be noted, however, that these dams are
essential parts of a project embodied in the Act, based
upon long considered and exhaustive studies for development of the river to secure the maximum improvement to navigation on the Tennessee River and the control of flood waters on the lower Tennessee River and
the Mississippi River.
The most difficult phase of the historic effort to improve the Tennessee has been the improvement of the
thirty-seven 'mile stretch known as Muscle Shoals, which
presented the most serious obstruction to navigation on
the river. The War interrupted consideration of various
private proposals and precipitated the construction of
Wilson Dam at Muscle Shoals,, together with Nitrate
Plant No. 2, pursuant to the National Defense Act of
1916. The dam was intended to provide hydroelectric
energy for the manufacture of synthetic nitrate- to meet
a recognized need for a permanent domestic supply of this
indispensable ingredient of explosives. Completed in
1925, after careful consideration- of its importance for
navigation, the dam provides a slack-water pool extending
fifteen miles upstream, thus eliminating the most serious
obstruction to navigation on the river.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

297 U.S.

The disposal of the faciJities at the dam, their continued
maintenance in aid of national defense and navigation,
and, in particular, the disposal of the power created at the
dam in such manner as to earn a revenue, to avoid the
monopolistic position of the Alabama Power Company,
and to diffuse the benefits to numerous small purchasers,
were basic factors in the ever-recurring problem. Transmission lines were essential.
Under the Commerce Clause, the Federal Government
may dispose of the water power created by navigation
dams constructed, owned, and, maintained by it. This
proposition has been settled by an unbroken line of decisions of this Court, culminating in Arizona v. California,
283 U. S. 423. (See Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green
Bay Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254; Green Bay Canal Co. v.
Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58, rehearing denied, 173
U. S.179; United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater Co.,
229 U. S. 53). No misapprehension as to the meaning of
these decisions has existed in the lower federal courts,
and the principle which they establish has been a recognized basis of congressional action for half a century.
Generation of electric energy and acquisition of transmission lines are reasonable means of facilitating the disposal of the water power inevitably created by Wilson
Dam. The various means chosen by Congress to dispose of surplus power at federal navigation dams have
paralleled scientific development. The National Defense
Act of 1916, the Boulder Canyon Project Act of 1928,
and the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933 are an
ouigrowth of the old leasing statutes and reflect the fact
that generation and sale of electric energy constitute usually related incidents of the maintenance of a large
navigation dam.
The constitutional issue of the choice of means is a
narrow one. It cannot seriously be contended that while
it is wholly reasonable for Congress to employ independ-

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

311

Argument for Respondent.

ent contractors to generate and deliver energy to purchasers from the Government, it is wholly capricious for
Congress to employ its own officers for the same purpose.
At Wilson Dam the means chosen by Congress are peculiarly appropriate in view of the maintenance of the gen- erating plant for national defense purposes, the construction of the plant for unitary operation, and the long
experience of the United States in attempting to dispose
of the power in the public interest.
The Muscle Shoals properties, including the dam and
generating plant, constitute a valuable national defense
asset, as found by the trial court after extensive testimony by responsible officers of the War Department.
The Act requires that the properties be maintained for
war purposes, and authorizes the manufacture of explosives and the making of experiments in aid of the
national defense.
Unlike ordinary surplus army supplies, the energy
available at the dam must be utilized or it is irretrievably
lost. In these circumstances, generation and sale of the
surplus power by the United States are appropriate means
of disposing of the surplus energy under the war powers.
The -water power created by Wilson Dam belongs to
the United States as.owner of the dam. Like other property of the United States, it is held in trust for the people
and may be disposed of in the public interest pursuant to
the Property Clause of the Constitution. Cf. United
States v. Gratiot,14 Pet. 526; United States v. Beebe, 127
U. S. 338; Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518; Light
v. United States, 220 U. S. 523; Ruddy v. Rossi, 248
U. S. 104.
In disposing of the surplus power at Wilson Dam, Congress. has adopted the long established policy of assuring
wide-spread distribution of the benefits of governmentowned property. That policy has governed the disposal
of public lands from the beginning of our Government,

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

297 U.S.

and also is responsible for the undertaking by the Government of extensive reclamation projects in preference
to reliance upon private enterprise, which would require
large grants to a few individuals. Cf. United States v.
Hanson,167 Fed. 181; Burley v. United States, 179 Fed. 1.
In the circumstances existing at Wilson Dam, the transmission and sale of the surplus electric energy by the
United States was particularly appropriate. Sales solely
to the Alabama Power Company and its affiliates, the
only available purchasers of power at the dam, would not
avoid waste or monopoly of the power or effect a widespread distribution of its benefits.
These principles are reflected in the established practice
of the Government. For almost fifty years provision has
een made by Congress for the disposition of power incilentally created by the construction and maintenance of
federal water developments. For almost thirty years provision has been made for the conversion of the incidental
water power into electric energy and the sale of that
energy. The Bureau of Reclamation has constructed
twenty-two power plants at federal reclamation projects,
nine of which were operated by the Government in 1932.
The Bureau sells power to towns, villages, rural customers, and power companies, and has built aud operated
transmission lines for commercial purposes. A similar
practice has been followed with respect to the power produced as a by-product of navigation developments. The
general dam act of 1912 authorized the Secretary of War
to make provision for future generation of electricity in
the construction of all navigation dams. The Boulder
Canyon Project Act of 1928 provided for the sale of electric energy by the Secretary of the Interior to various
classes of purchasers, preference being given to states and
municipalities.
The ablest legal advisers of the Roosevelt, Taft, and
Wilson administrations were agreed that where the Gov-

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

313

Argument for Respondent.

ernment has constructed a dam for the lawful purpose of
improving navigation, it may dispose of the power produced as a by-product.
There is no merit in the contention of petitioners that
the activities of the Authority are "intrinsically alien to
Federal function" and constitute an invasion of state
sovereignty. The fact that the activities of the Authority
may be described as commercial or proprietary is of no
constitutional significance. Cf. Puget Sound Power &
Light Co. v. Seattle, 291 U. S. 619, 625; Emergency Fleet
Corp. v. Western Union, 275 U. S. 415, 424; Julliard v.
Greenman, 110 U. S. 421,448.
There is no purpose in the Act to regulate matters reserved to the States by the Ninth and Tenth Amendments. The contracts with the municipalities are subservient to the law of Alabama no less than if the municipalities had made contracts with a private wholesaler.
The State of Alabama has exercised its regulatory powers
in the instant case by authorizing the municipalities to
enter into contracts with the Authority under certain
stated conditions. The Supreme Court of Alabama has
sustained that legislation. Oppenheim v. City of Florence, 229 Ala. 50, 155 So. 859.
The "'yardstick" is not a law and imposes no regulation or duty. Its function is educational, and, at most,
advisory. Cf. Standard Scale Co. v. Farrell, 249 -!. S.
571.
Both courts below properly exercised their discretion in
refusing to grant a declaratory decree on the validity c"
"proposed extensions of the competition" by the Authority. In No. 404, no justiciable controversy is presented, since the complaint is based upon potential or
contingent acts and upon assumed potential invasions.
(See New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328, 339; Arizona
v. California,283 U. S. 423, 462.)
Aside from the prematurity and hypothetical character of the complaints, the restrictive nature of a stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

297 U.S.

holder's suit is inconsistent with a right to secure declaratory relief in advance of immediately threatened injury.
In any event, the granting of a declaratory decree is a
discretionary matter. In view of the hypothetical and
speculative nature of the complaint, and the complicated
and uncertain facts, the refusal to grant a declaratory
judgment was a proper exercise of discretion.
If the Court should nevertheless deem it appropriate to
inquire into activities of the Authority involving new
dams, the Record shows that operations thus far undertaken by the Authority are in furtherance of the project
"to improve navigation in the Tennessee River and to
control the destructive flood waters in the Tennessee
River and Mississippi River Basins," authorized by the
Tennessee Valley Authority Act following the exhaustive
survey of the Army Engineers in House Document No.
328, adopted by the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1930,
46 Stat. 918. The District Court found that all of the
dams now under construction by the Authority are of
the type which are indispensable in carrying out these
purposes.
Mr. W. H. Mitchell submitted for the City of Florence,
respondent.
Messrs. Thomas W. Martin, Perry W. Turner, and
Wm. Logan Martin submitted for the Alabama Power
Co., respondent.
Messrs. Courtland Palmer and Jehu T. Stokely submitted for The Chemical Bank & Trust Co., respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Mr. Sam W. Oliver, County Attorney, on behalf of
Tallapoosa County, Alabama; Mr. J. M. Holley, County
Attorney, on behalf of Elmore County, Alabama; and
Mr. Lawrence C. Jones, Attorney General, on behalf of

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

315

Opinion of the Court.

the State of Vermont, all attacking the validity of the
Tennessee Valley Authority Act.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
On January 4, 1934, the Tennessee Valley Authority,
an agency of the Federal Government,' entered into a
contract with the Alabama Power Company, providing
(1) for the purchase by the Authority fr m the Power
Company of certain transmission lines, sub-stations, and
auxiliary properties for $1,000,000, (2) for the purchase
by the Authority from the Power Company of certain
real property for $150,000, (3) for an interchange of
hydro-electric energy, and in addition for the sale by the
Authority to the Power Company of its "surplus power,"
on stated terms, and (4) for mutual restrictions as to the
areas to be served in the sale of power. The contract
was amended and supplemented in minor particulars on
February 13 and May 24, 1934.2
The Alabama Power Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Alabama and is engaged in the
generation of electric energy and its distribution generally throughout that State, its lines reaching 66 counties.
The transmission lines to be purchased by the Authority
extend from Wilson Dam, at the Muscle Shoals plant
owned by the United States on the Tennessee River in

I The Tennessee Valley Authority is a body corporate crqated by
the Act of Congress of May 18, 1933, amended by the Act of Congress of August 31, 1935. 48 Stat. 58; 49 Stat. 1075.
2The
Commonwealth & Southern Corporation, organized under
the laws of Delaware, and the owner of the common stock of the
Alabama Power Company, was a party to the contract, which also
contained agreements with other subsidiaries of the Commonwealth
& Southern Corporation, viz: Tennessee Electric Power Company,
Georgia Power Company, and Mississippi Power Company. The
agreements with these companies are not involved in this suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

northern Alabama, into seven counties in that State,
within a radius of about 50 miles. These lines serve a
population of approximately 190,000, including about
10,000 individual customers, or about one-tenth of the
total number served directly by the Power Company.
The real property to be acquired by the Authority (apart
from the transmission lines above mentioned and related
properties) is adjacent to the area known as the "Joe
Wheeler dam site," upon which the Authority is constructing the Wheeler Dam.
The contract of January 4, 1934, also provided for cooperation between the Alabama Power Company and
the Electric Home and Farm Authority, Inc., a subsidiary
of the Tennessee Valley Authority, to promote the sale
of electrical appliances, and to that end the Power Company, on May 21, 1934, entered into an agency contract
with the Electric Home and Farm Authority, Inc. It is
not necessary to detail or discuss the proceedings in relation to that transaction, as it is understood that the
latter corporation has been dissolved.
There was a further agreement on August 9, 1934, by
which the Alabama Power Company gave an option to
the Tennessee Valley Authority to acquire urban distribution systems which had been retained by the Power
Company in municipalities within the area served by the
transmission lines above mentioned. It appears that this
option has not been exercised and that the agreement has
been terminated.
Plaintiffs are holders of preferred stock of the Alabama
Power Company. Conceiving the contract with the
Tennessee Valley Authority to be injurious to the corporate interests and also invalid, because beyond the constitutional power of the Federal Government, they submitted their protest to the board of directors of the Power
Company and demanded that steps should be taken to
have the contract annulled. The board refused, and the

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

317

Opinion of the Court.

Commonwealth & Southern Corporation, the holder of all
the common stock of the Power Company, declined to
call a meeting of the stcckholders to take action. As the
protest was unavailing, plaintiffs brought this suit to have
the invalidity of the contract determined and its performance enjoined. Going beyond that particular challenge, and setting forth the pronouncements, policies and
programs of the Authority, plaintiffs sought a decree retraining these activities as repugnant to the Constitution, and also asked a general declaratory decree with
respect to the rights of the Authority in various
relations.
The defendants, including the Authority and its directors, the Power Company and its mortgage trustee, and
the municipalities within the described area, filed answers
and the case was heard upon evidence. The District
Court made elaborate findings and entered a final decree
annulling the contract of January 4, 1934, and enjoining
the transfer of the transmission lines and auxiliary properties. The court also enjoined the defendant municipalities from making or performing any contracts with
the Authority for the purchase of power, and from
accepting or expending any funds received from the Authority or the Public Works Administration for the purpose of constructing a public distribution system to. distribute power which the Authority supplied. The court
gave no consideration to plaintiffs' request for a general
declaratory decree.
The Authority, its directors, and the city of Florence
appealed from the decree and the case was severed as to
the other defendants. Plaintiffs took a cross appeal.
The Circuit Court of Appeals limited its discussion to
the precise issue with respect to the effect and validity
of the contract of January 4, 1934. The District Court
had found that the electric energy required for the territory served by the transmission lines to be purchased

.318

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

under that contract is available at Wilson Dam without
the necessity for any interconnection with any other dam
or power plant. The Circuit Court of Appeals accordingly considered the constitutional authority for the construction of Wilson Dam and for the disposition of the
electric energy there created. In the view that the Wilson Dam had been constructed in the exercise of the war
and commerce powers of the Congress and that the electric energy there available was the property of the United
States and subject to its disposition, the Circuit Court
of Appeals decided that the decree of the District Court
was erroneous and should be reversed. The court also
held that plaintiffs should take nothing by their cross
appeal. 78 F. (2d) 578. On plaintiffs' application we
granted writs of certiorari.
First. The right of plaintiffs to bring this suit. Plaintiffs sue in the right of the Alabama Power Company.
They sought unsuccessfully to have that right asserted
by the Power Company itself, and upon showing their
demand and its refusal they complied with the applicable
rule.3 While their stock holdings are small, they have a
real interest and there is no question that the suit was
brought in good faith.4 If otherwise entitled, they
should not be denied the relief which would be accorded
to one who owned more shares.
Plaintiffs did not simply challenge the contract of January 4, 1934, as improvidently made,-as an unwise exercise of the discretion vested in the board of directors.
They 'challenged the contract both as injurious to the
3

Equity Rule 27.
District Court found that "Approximately 1900 preferred
stockholders of the Alabama Company, holding over 40,000 shares
of the preferred stock thereof, have associated themselves with a
preferred stockholders' protective committee and authorized their
names to be joined with the plaintiffs of record in this case as parties
4The

plaintiff."

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

319

Opinion of the Court.

interests of the corporation and as an illegal transaction,-violating the fundamental law. In seeking to prevent the carrying out of the contract, the suit was directed not only against the Power Company but against
the Authority and its directors upon the ground that the
latter, under color of the statute, were acting beyond the
powers which the Congress could validly confer. In such
a case it is not necessary for stockholders--when their
corporation refuses to take suitable measures for its protection-to show that the managing board or trustees
have acted with fraudulent intent or under legal duress.
To entitle the complainants to equitable relief, in the
absence of an adequate legal remedy, it is enough for
them to show the breach of trust or duty involved in the
injurious and illegal action. Nor is it necessary to show
that the transaction was ultra vires of the corporation.
The illegality may be found in the lack of lawful authority on the part of those with whom the corporation is attempting to deal. Thus, the breach of duty may consist
in yielding, without appropriate resistance, to governmental demands which are without warrant of law or
are in violation of constitutional restrictions. The right
of stockholders to seek equitable relief has been recognized when the managing board or trustees of the corporation have refused to take legal measures to resist the
collection of taxes or other exactions alleged to be unconstitutional (Dodge v. Woolsey,. 18 How. 331, 339, 340,
345; Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429,
433, 553, 554; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240
U. S. 1, 10); or because of the failure to assert the rights
and franchises of the corporation against an unwarranted
interference through legislative or administrative action
(Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, 15, 16; Cotting
v. Kansas City Stockyards Co., 183 U. S. 79, 114). The
remedy has been accorded to stockholders of public service corporations with respect to. rates alleged to be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

fiscatory (Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 469, 517; Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 129, 130, 143). The fact
that the directors in the exercise of their judgment, either
because they were disinclined to undertake a burdensome
litigation or for other reasons which they regarded as
substantial, resolved to comply with the legislative or
administrative demands, has not been deemed an adequate ground for denying to the stockholders an opportunity to contest the validity of the governmental requirements to which the directors were submitting. See
Dodge v. Woolsey, supra, at pp. 340, 345; Greenwood v.
Freight Co., supra, at p. 15; Pollock v. Farmers'Loan &
Trust Co., supra, at pp. 433, 553, 554; Brushaberv. Union
Pacific R. Co., supra, at p. 10.
In Smith v. Kansas City Title Co., 255 U. S. 180, a
shareholder of the Title Company sought to enjoin the
directors from inviesting its funds in the bonds of Federal
Land Banks and Joint Stock Land Banks upon the ground
that the Act of Congress authorizing the creation of these
banks and the issue of bonds was unconstitutional, and
hence that the bonds were not legal securities in which
the corporate funds could lawfully be invested. The proposed investment was not large,--only- $10,000 in each
of the classes of bonds described. Id., pp. 195, 196. And
it appeared that the directors of the Title Company maintained that the Federal Farm Loan Act was constitutional
and that the bonds were "valid and desirable investments." Id., p. 201. 'But neither the conceded fact as to
the judgment of the directors nor the small amount to be
invested,--shown by the averments of the complaintavailed to defeat the jurisdiction of the court to decide
the question as to the validity of the Act and of the bonds
which it authorized. The Court held that the validity
of the Act was directly drawn in question and that the
shareholder was entitled to maintain the suit. The Court
said: "The general allegations as to the interest of the

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

321

Opinion of the Court.

shareholder, and his right to have an injunction to prevent the purchase of the alleged unconstitutional securities by misapplication of the funds of the corporation,
give jurisdiction under the principles settled in Pollock v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. and Brushaber v. Union
Pacific R. Co., supra." Id., pp. 201, 202. The Court
then proceeded to examine the constitutional question
and sustained the legislation under attack. A similar
result was reached in Brushaberv. Union Pacific R. Co.,
supra. A close examination of these decisions leads inevitably to the conclusion that they should either be
followed or be frankly overruled. We think that they
should be followed, and that the opportunity to resort
to equity, in the absence of an adequate legal remedy, in
order to prevent illegal transactions by those in control
of corporate properties, should not be curtailed because of
reluctance to decide constitutional questions.
We find no distinctions which would justify us in refusing to entertain the present controversy. It is urged
that plaintiffs hold preferred shares and that, for the
present purpose, they are virtually in the position of
bondholders. The rights of bondholders, in case of injury
to their interests through unconstitutional demands upon,
or transactions with, their corporate debtor, are not before
us. Compare Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154
U. S. 362, 367, 368. Plaintiffs are not creditors but shareholders (with equal voting power share for share with
the common stockholders, according to the findings) and
thus they have a proprietary interest in the corporate
enterprise which is subject to injury through breaches of
trust or duty on the part of the directors who are not
less the representatives of the plaintiffs because their
shares have certain preferences. See Ball v. Rutland R.
Co., 93 Fed. 513, 514, 515. It may be, as in this case,
that the owner of all the common stock has participated
in the.transaction in question, and the owners of preferred

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

stock may be the only persons having a proprietary interest in the corporation who are in a position to protect
its interests against what is asserted to be an illegal disposition of its property.' A court of equity should not
shut its door against them.
It is said that here, instead of parting with money, as
in the case of illegal or unconstitutional taxes or exactions,
the Power Company is to receive a substantial consideration under the contract in suit. But the Power Company
is to part with transmission lines which supply a large
area, and plaintiffs allege that the consideration is inadequate and that the transaction entails a disruption of
services and a loss of business and franchises. If, as
plaintiffs contend, those purporting to act as a governmental agency had no constitutional authority to make
the agreement, its execution would leave the Power Company with doubtful remedy, either against the governmental agency which might not be able, or against the
Government which might not be willing, to respond to
a demand for the restoration of conditions as they now
exist. In what circumstances and with what result such
an effort at restoration might be made is unpredictable.
If, as was decided in Smith v. Kansas City Title Co.,
supra, stockholders had the right to sue to test the validity of a proposed investment in the bonds of land banks,
we can see no reason for denying to these plaintiffs a similar resort to equity in order to challenge, on the ground
of unconstitutionality, a contract involving such a dislocation and misapplication of corporate property as are
charged in the instant case.
The Government urges that the Power Company is
estopped to question the validity of the Act creating the
Tennessee- Valley Authority and hence that the stockholders, suing in the right of the corporation, cannot
See rote 2,

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

323

Opinion of the Court.

maintain this suit. It is said that the Power Company,
in 1925, installed its own transformers and connections
at Wilson Dam and has ever since purchased large quantities of electric energy there generated, and that the
Power Company continued its purchases after the passage
of the Act of 1933 constituting the Authority. The principle. is invoked that one who accepts the benefit of a
statute cannot be heard to question its constitutionality.
Great Falls Manufacturing Co. v. Attorney General, 124
U. S. 581; Wall v. ParrotSilver & Copper Co., 244 U. S.
407; St. Louis Casting Co. v. Prendergast Construction
Co., 260 U. S. 469. We think that the principle is not
applicable here. The prior purchase of power in the
circumstances disclosed may have a bearing upon the
question before us, but it is by no means controlling.
The contract in suit manifestly has a broader range and
we find nothing in the earlier transactions which preclude
the contention that this contract goes beyond the constitutional power of the Authority. Reference is also
made to a proceeding instituted by the Power Company
to obtain the approval of the contract by the Alabama
Public Service Commission and to the delay in .the bringing of this suit. It was brought on October 8, 1934, following plaintiffs' demand upon the board of directors in
the preceding August. Estoppel in equity must rest on
substantial grounds of prejudice or change of position, not
on technicalities. We see no reason for concluding that
the delay or the proceeding before the Commission caused
any prejudice to either the Power Company or the Authority, so far as the subject matter of the contract between them is concerned, or that there is any basis for the
claim of estoppel.
We think that plaintiffs have made a sufficient showing
to entitle them to bring suit and that a constitutional
question is properly presented and should be decided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

Second. The scope of the issue. We agree with the
Circuit Court of Appeals that the question to be determined is limited to the validity of the contract of January 4, 1934. The pronouncements, policies and program
of the Tennessee Valley Authority and its directors, their
motives and desires, did not give rise to a justiciable controversy save as they had fruition in action of a definite
and concrete character constituting an actual or threatened interference with the rights of the persofhs complaining. The judicial power does not extend to the determination of abstract questions. Muskrat v. United States,
219 U. S. 346, 361; Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis,
273 U. S. 70, 74; Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Assn.,
277 U.. S. 274, 289; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 262, 264. It was for this reason that
the Court dismissed the bill of the State of New Jersey
which sought to obtain a judicial declaration that in certain features the Federal Water Power Act 6 exceeded the
authority of the Congress and encroached upon that of
the State. New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328. For
the same reason, the State of New York, in her suit against
the State of Illinois, failed in her effort to obtain a decision
of abstract questions as to the possible effect of the diversion of water from Lake Michigan upon hypothetical
water power developments in the indefinite future. New
York v. Illinois, 274 U. S. 488. At the last term the
Court held, in dismissing the bill of the United States
against the State of West Virginia, that general allegations that the State challenged the claim of the United
States that the rivers in question were navigable, and asserted a right superior to that of the United States to
license their use for power production, raised an issue "too
vague and ill-defined to admit of judicial determination."
United States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463, 474.
Claims based merely upon "assumed potential invasions"
6 41 Stat. 1063.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

325

Opinion of the Court.

of rights are not enough to warrant judicial intervention.
Arizona v. California,283 U. S. 423, 462.
The Act of June 14, 1934,' providing for declaratory
judgments, does not attempt to change the essential
requisites for the exercise of judicial power. By its terms,
it applies to "cases of actual controversy," a phrase which
must be taken to connote a controvery of a justiciable
nature, thus excluding an advisory decree upon a hypothetical state of facts. See Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v. Wallace, supra. While plaintiffs, as stockholders,
might insist that the board of directors should take appropriate legal measures to extricate the corporation from
particular transactions and agreements alleged to be invalid, plaintiffs had no right to demand that the directors
should start a litigation to obtain a general declaration
of the unconstitutionality of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act in all its bearings or a decision of abstract
questions as to the right of the Authority and of the
Alabama Power Company in possible contingencies.
Examining the present record, we find no ground for a
demand by plaintiffs except as it related to the contracts
between the Authority and the Alabam4 Power Company.
And as the contract of May 21, 1934, with the Electric
Home and Farm Authority, Inc., and that of August 9,
1934, for an option to the Authority to acquire urban
distribution systems, are understood to be inoperative
(ante, p. 316), the only remaining questions that plaintiffs are entitled to raise concern the contract of January 4, 1934, providing for the purchase of transmission
lines and the disposition of power.
There is a further limitation upon our inquiry. As it
appears that the transmission lines in question run from
the Wilson Dam and that the electric energy generated at
that dam is more than sufficient to supply all the re,48 Stat. 955.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

quirements of the contract, the questions that are properly before us relate to the constitutional authority for
the construction of theWilson Dam and for the disposition, as provided in the contract, of the electric energy
there generated.
Third. The constitutional authority for the construction of the Wilson Dam. The Congress may not, "under
the pretext of executing its powers, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects not entrusted to the government." Chief Justice Marshall, in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423; Linder v. United States, 268
U. S. 5, 17. The Government's argument recognizes this
essential limitation. The Government's contention is
that the Wilson Dam was constructed, and the power
plant connected with it was installed, in the exercise by
the Congress of its war and commerce powers, that is,
for the purposes of national defense and the improvement
of navigation.
Wilson Dam is described as a concrete monolith one hundred feet high and almost a mile long, containing two locks
for navigation and eight installed generators. Construction was begun in 1917 and completed in 1926. Authority for its construction is found in § 124 of the National
Defense Act of June 3,1916.8 It authorized the President to
rcause an investigation to be made in order to determine
"the best, cheapest, and most available means for the production of nitrates and other products for munitions of
war"; to designate for the exclusive use of the United
States "such site or sites upon any navigable or nonnavigable river or rivers or upon the public lands, as in his
opinion will be necessaiy for carrying out the purposes of
this Act"; and "to construct, maintain and operate" on
any such site "dams, locks, improvements to navigation,
power houses, and other plants and equipment or other
8 39 Stat. 166, 215.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

327

Opinion of the Court.

means -than water power as in his judgment is the best
and cheapest, necessary or convenient for the generation
of electrical or other power and for the production of
nitrates or other products needed for munitions of war and
useful in the manufacture of fertilizers and other usefur
products." The President was authorized to lease, or acquire by condemnation or otherwise such lands as might
be necessary and there was further provision that "The
products of such plants shall be used by the President for
military and naval purposes to the extent that he may
deem necessary, and any surplus which he shall determine
is not required shall be sold and disposed of by him under
such regulations as he may prescribe." Id.
We may take judicial notice of the international situation at the time the Act of 1916 was passed, and it cannot be successfully disputed that the Wilson Dam and its
auxiliary plants, including the hydro-electric power plant,
are, and were intended to be, adapted to the purposes of
national defense.9 While the District Court found that
there is no intention to use the nitrate plants or the hydroelectric units installed at Wilson Dam for the production
9

Among the findings of the District Court on this point are the
following:
"38. The Muscle Shoals plants, including the Sheffield steam plant
and the 8 hydro-electric units installed at Wilson Dam, were authorized for war purposes by Section 124 of the National Defense
Act of 1916 in anticipation of participation in the great war. The
original conception was for the use of Nitrate Plant No. 1 employing the Haber process and Plant No. 2 employing the cyanamide
process for the fixation or manufacture of nitrogen and its subsequent conversion into ammonium nitrate for explosives. Plant No. 1
was completed but was never practicable, due to the lack of knowledge of the Haber process. Plant No. 2 successfully developed calcium cyanamide from a manufacturing standpoint but due to the
availability of ammonium nitrate as a result of commercial development of by-product or synthetic processes, the commercial or peacetime manufacture of calcium cyanamide at Nitrate Plant No. 2 is

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of war materials in time of peace, "the maintenance of
said properties in operating condition and the assurance
of an abundant supply of electric bnergy in the event of
war, constitute national defense assets." This finding has
ample support.
The Act of 1916 also had in.view "improvements to
"All
Commerce includes navigation.
navigation."
America understands, and has uniformly understood,"
said Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 190, "the word 'commerce,' to comprehend navigation."
The power to regulate interstate commerce embraces the
power to keep the navigable rivers of the United States
free from obstructions to navigation and to remove such
obstructions when they exist. "For these purposes," said
the Court in Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 725,
"Congress possesses all the powers which existed in the
States before the adoption of the national Constitution,
and which have always existed in the Parliament in
England." See, also, Philadelphia Company v. Stimson,
223 U. S. 605, 634.
The Tennessee River is a navigable stream, although
there are obstructions at various points because of shoals,
reefs and rapids. The improvement of navigation on
this river has been a matter of national concern for over
a century. Recommendation that provision be made for
considered uneconomical and undesirable and is not proposed or
suggested by either the War Department or the TVA. The Court
further finds, however, that the plant with the aid of electric power
furnished by Wilson Dam and the Sheffield steam plant can be
operated to produce annually 110,000 tons of ammonium nitrate by
the cyanamide process and that the present plans of the War Department count upon that plant to supply that amount annually in
the event of a major war. . ..
"40. The existence of these facilities which make available large
quantities of nitrogenous war materials by use of either the nitrogen
fixing process or the oxidation of synthetic ammonia is a valuable
national defense asset."

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

329

Opinion of the Court.

navigation around Muscle Shoals was made by the Secretary of War, John C. Calhoun, in his report transmitted
to the Congress by President Monroe in 1824,1° and, from
1852, the Congress has repeatedly authorized projects to
develop navigation on that and other portions of the
river, both by open channel improvements and by canalizatiQn. 11 The Wilson Dam project, adopted in 1918,
gave a nine foot slack water development, for fifteen miles
above Florence, over the Muscle Shoals rapids and, as
the District Court found, "flooded out the then existing
canal and locks which were inadequate." The District
Court also found that a "high dam of this type was the
only feasible means of eliminating this most serious obstruction to navigation." By the Act of 1930, after a
protracted study by the Corps of Engineers of the United
States Army, the Congress adopted a project for a permanent improvement of the main stream "for a navigable
depth of nine feet." 12
While, in its present condition, the Tennessee River
is not adequately improved for commercial navigation,
and traffic is small, we are not at liberty to conclude either
that the river is not susceptible of development as an important waterway, or that Congress has not undertaken
'"Sen. Doc. No. 1, 18th Cong., 2d sess.; H. R. Doc. No. 119, 69th
Cong., 1st sess., 11, 12.
11 See Rivers and Harbors Acts of August 30, 1852, c. 104, 10
Stat. 56, 60; July 25, 1868, c. 233, 15 Stat. 171, 174; March 3,
1871, c. 118, 16 Stat. 538, 542; June 10, 1872, c. 416, 17 Stat. 370, 372;
September 19, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 426, 445, 446; August 18, 1894,
c. 299, 28 Stat. 338, 354; April 26, 1904, c. 1605, 33 Stat. 309; March
2, 1907, c. 2509, 34 Stat. 1073, 1093; June 25, 1910, c. 382, 36 Stat.
630, 652; July 25, 1912, c. 253, 37 Stat. 201, 215; July 27, 1916, c.
260, 39 Stat. 391, 399; March 3, 1925, c. 467, 43 Stat. 1186, 1188;
July 3, 1930, c. 847, 46 Stat. 918, 927, 928. See, also, H. R. Does. No.
319, 67th Cong., 2d sess.; No. 463, 69th Cong.,.1st sess.; No. 185, 70th
Cong., 1st sess.; No. 328, 71st Cong., 2d sess.
"Act of July 3, 1930, c. 847, 46 Stat. 918, 927, 928.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

that development, or that the construction of the Wilson
Dam was not an appropriate means to accomplish a
legitimate end.
The Wilson Dam and its power-plant must be taken
to have been constructed in the exercise of the constitutional functions of the Federal Government.
Fourth. The constitutionalauthority to dispose of electric energy generated at the Wilson Dam. The Government acquired full title to the dam site, with all riparian
rights. The power of falling water was an inevitable incident of the construction of the dam. That water power
came into the exclusive control of the Federal Government. The mechanical energy was convertible into electric energy, and the water power, the right to convert it
into electric energy, and the electric energy thus produced, constitute property belonging to the United States.
See Green Bay Canal Co. v. Patten PaperCo., 172 U. S.
58, 80; United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.
53, 72, 73; Utah Power & Light Co. v. PJost, 286 U. S.
165, 170.
Authority to dispose of property constitutionally acquired by the United States is expressly granted to the
Congress by § 3 of Article IV of the Constitution. This
section provides:
"The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make
all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States;
and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as
to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State."
To the extent that the power of disposition is thus
expressly conferred, it is manifest that the Tenth Amendment is not applicable. And the Ninth Amendment
(which petitioners also, invoke) in insuring the maintenance of the rights retained by the people does not
withdraw the rights which are expressly granted to the

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

331

Opinion of the Court.

Federal Government. The question is as to the scope of
the grant and whether there are inherent limitations
which render invalid the disposition of property with
which we are now concerned.
The occasion for the grant was the obvious necessity of
making provision for the government of the vast territory acquired by the United States. The power to govern
and to dispose of that territory was deemed to be indispensable to the purposes of the cessions made by the
States. And yet it was a matter of grave concern because of the fear that "the sale and disposal" might become "a source of such immense revenue to the national
government, as to make it independent of and formidable
to the people." Story on the Constitution, §§ 1325, 1326.
The grant was made in broad terms, and the power of
regulation and disposition was not confined to territory,
but extended to "other property belonging to the United
States," so that the power may be applied, as Story says,
"to the due regulation of all other personal and real property rightfully belonging to the United Skates." And so,
he adds, "it has been constantly understood and acted
upon." Id.
This power of disposal was early construed to embrace
leases, thus enabling the Government to derive profit
through royalties. The question arose with respect to a
government lease of lead mines on public lands, under
the Act of March 3, 1807. The contention was advanced
that "disposal is not letting or leasing"; that Congress had
no power "to give or authorize leases" and "to obtain profits from the working of the mines." The Court overruled the contention, saying: "The disposal must be left
to the discretion of Congress. And there can be no apprehensions of any encroachments upon state rights, by the
creation of a numerous tenantry within their borders, as
has been so strenuously urged in the argument." United
States v. Gratiot, 14 Pet. 526, 533, 538. The policy, early

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

adopted and steadily pursued, of segregating mineral lands
from other public lands and providing for leases, pointed
to the recognition both of the full power of disposal and of
the necessity of suitably adapting the methods of disposal
to different sorts of property. The policy received particular emphasis following the discovery of gold in California
in 1848." For example, an Act of 1866, dealing with
grants to Nevada, declared that "in all cases lands valuable
for mines of gold, silver, quicksilver, or copper shall be
reserved from sale." "' And Congress from the outset
adopted a similar practice in reserving salt springs. Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660, 667; Montello Salt Co. v.
Utah, 221 U. S. 452. It was in the light of this historic
policy that the Court held that the school grant to Utah
by the Enabling Act of 1894 was not intended to embrace land known to be valuable for coal. United States
v. Siveet, 245 U. S. 563, 572. See, also, as to the reservation and leases of oil lands, Pan American Petroleum Co.
v. United States, 273 U. S. 456, 487.
But when Congress thus reserved mineral lands for special disposal, can it be dotibted that Congress could have
provided for mining directly by its own agents, instead of
giving that right to lessees on the payment of royalties? 16
Upon what ground could it be said that the Government
could not mine its own gold, silver, coal, lead, or phosphates ih the public domain, and dispose of them as property belonging to the United States? That it could dis13 See citations of numerous statutes in United States v. Sweet,
245 U. S. 563, 568, 569.
14 Act of July 4, 1866, c. 166, § 5, 14 Stat. 85, 86.
15 Act of July 16, 1894, c. 138, 28 Stat. 107.
.16 See, as to royalties under leases "to promote the mining of coal,
phosphate, oil, oil shale, gas, and sodium on the public domain," the
Act of February 25, 1920, c. 85,. 41 Stat. 437. Also, as to leases of
public lands containing potassium deposits, the Act of October 2,
1917, c: 62, 40 Stat. 297.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

333

Opinion of the Court.

pose of its land but not of what the land contained? It
would seem to be clear that under the same power of disposition which enabled the Government to lease and
obtain profit from sales by its lessees, it could mine and
obtain profit from its own sales.
The question is whether a more limited power of disposal should be applied to the water power, convertible
into electric energy, and to the electric energy thus produced at the Wilson Dam constructed by the Government
in the exercise of its constitutional functions. If so, it
must be by reason either of (1) the nature of the particular property, or (2) the character of the "surplus" disposed of, or (3) the manner of disposition.
(1) That the water power and the electric energy generated at the dam are susceptible of disposition as property belonging to the United States is well established.
In the case of Green Bay Canal Co. v. Patten Paper Co.,
supra, the question was "whether the water power, incidentally created by the erection and maintenance of the
dam and canal for the purpose of navigation in Fox River"
was "subject to control and appropriation by the United
States, owning and operating those public works, or by
the State of Wisconsin, within whose limits Fox River
lies." Id., pp. 68, 69. It appeared that, under the authority of the Congress, the United States had acquired,
by purchase from a Canal Company, title to its improvement works, lands and water powers, on the Fox River,
and that the United States had consented to the retention
by the Canal Company of the water powers with appurtenances. We held that the "substantial meaning of the
transaction was, that the United States granted to the
Canal Company the right to continue in the possession
and enjoyment of the water powers and the lots appurtenant thereto, subject to the rights and control of the
United States as owning and operating the public works";
and that the method by which the arrangement was

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

2!7 U.S.

effected was "as efficacious as if the entire property had
been conveyed to the United States by one deed, and the
reserved properties had been reconveyed to the Canal
Company by another." Id., p. 80. We thought it clear
that the Canal Company was "possessed of whatever
rights to the use of this incidental water power that could
be validly granted by the United States." Id., p. 69.
And in this view it was decided that so far as the "water
powers and appurtenant lots are regarded as property,"
the title of the Canal Company could not be controverted,
and that it was "equally plain that the mode and extent
of the use and enjoyment of such property by the Canal
Company" fell within the sole control of the United
States. See Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay
Canal Co., 142 U. S.254; Green Bay Canal Co. v. Patten
Paper Co., 173 U. S. 179.
In United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.53,
the United States had condemned land in Michigan, lying
between the St. Marys River and the ship canal 'strip of
the Government, in order to improve navigation. The
riparian owner, under revocable permits from the Secretary of War, had placed in the rapids "the necessary dams,
dykes and forebays for the purpose of controlling the
current and using its power for commerical purposes."
Id., p. 68. The Act of March 3, 1909,17 authorizing the
improvement, had revoked the permit. We said that the
Government "had dominion over the water power of the
rapids and falls" and could not be required to pay "any
hypothetical additional value to a riparian owner who
had no right to appropriate the current to his own commercial use." Id., p. 76. The Act of 1909 also authorized
the Secretary of War to lease "any excess of water power
which results from the conservation of the flow of the
river, and the works which the Government may con'

35Sta. c. 264, 815, 820, 821.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

335

Opinion of the Court.

struct." "If the primary purpose is legitimate," said the
Court, "we can see no sound objection to leasing any
excess of power over the needs of the Government. The
practice is not unusual in respect to similar public works
constructed by state governments." Id., p. 73. Reference
was made to the case of Kaukauna Water Power Co. v.
Green Bay Canal Co., supra, where the Court had observed in relation to a Wisconsin statute of 1848, which
had reserved to the State the water power created by the
dam over the Fox River :--"As there is no need of the
surplus running to waste, there was nothing objectionable
in permitting the State to let out the use of it to private
parties, and thus reimburse itself for the expenses of the
improvement." In International Paper Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 399, the Government made a war-time
requisition of electrical power and Was held bound to
make compensation to a lessee who thereby had lost the
use of the water to which he was entitled. The Court
brushed aside attempted "distinctions between the taking
of power and the taking of water rights," saying that the
Government intended "to take and did take the use of
all the water power" and had exercised its power of eminent domain to that end. Id., pp. 407, 408.
(2) The argument is stressed that, assuming that electric energy generated at the dam belongs to the United
States, the Congress has authority to dispose of this
energy only to the extent that it is a surplus necessarily
created in the course of making munitions of war or operating the works for navigation purposes; that is, that
the remainder of the available energy must be lost or go
to waste. We find nothing in the Constitution which
imposes such a limitation. It is not to be deduced from
the mere fact that the electric energy is only potentially
available until the generators are operated. The Government has no less right to the energy thus available by
letting the water course over its turbines than it has

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

to use the appropriate processes to reduce to possession
other property within its control, as, for example, oil
which it may recover from a pool beneath its lands, and
which is reduced to possession by boring oil wells and
ctherwise might escape its grasp. See Ohio Oil Co. v.
Indiana., 177 U. S. 190, 208. And it would hardly be
contended that, when the Government reserves coal on
its lands, it can mine the coal and dispose of it only for
the purpose of heating public buildings or for other governmental operations. Or, if the Government owns a silver mine, that it can obtain the silver only for the purpose
of storage or coinage. Or that when the Government extracts the oil it has-reserved, it has no constitutional power
to sell it. Our decisions recognize no such restriction.
United States v. Grati6t, 14 Pet. 526; Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46, 88, 89; Light v. United States, 220 U. S.
523, 536, 537; Ruddy v. Rossi, 248 U. S. 104, 106. The
United States owns the coal, or the silver, or the lead,
or the oil, it obtains from its lands, and it lies in the
discretion of the Congress, acting in the public interest,
to determine of how much of the property it shall dispose.
We think that the same principle is applicable to electric energy. The argument pressed upon us leads to absurd consequences in the denial, despite the broad terms
of the constitutional provision, of a power of disposal
which the public interest may imperatiYely require. Suppose, for example, that in the erection of a dam for the
improvement of navigation, it became necessary to destroy a dam and power plant which had previously been
erected by a private corporation engaged in the generation and distribution of energy which supplied the needs
of neighboring communities and business enterprises.
Would anyone say that, because the United States had
built its own dam and plant in the exercise of its constitutional functions, and had complete ownership and dominion over both, no power could be supplied to the communities and enterprises dependent on it, not because of

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

337

Opinion of the Court.

any unwillingness of the Congress to supply it, or of any
overriding governmental need, but because there was no
constitutional authority to furnish the supply? Or that,
with abundant power available, which must otherwise be
wasted, the supply to the communities and enterprises
whose very life may be at stake must be limited to the
slender amount of surplus unavoidably involved in the
operation, of the navigation works, because the Constitution does not permit any more energy to be generated and
distributed? In the case of the Green Bay Canal Co.,
above cited, where the government works supplanted
those of the Canal Company, the Court found no difficulty
in sustaining the Government's authority to grant to the
Canal Company the water powers which it had previously
enjoyed, subject, of course, to the dominant control of the
Government. And in the case of United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., supra,the statutory provision, to which
the Court referred, was "that any excess of water in the
St. Marys River at Sault Sainte Marie over and above
the amount now or hereafter required for the uses of navigation shall be leased for power purposes by the Secretary
of War upon such terms and conditions as shall be best
calculated in his judgment to insure the development
thereof." It was to the leasing, under this provision, "of
any excess of power over the needs of the Government"
that the Court saw no valid objection. Id., p. 73.
The decisions which petitioners cite give no support
to their contention. Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212,
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, and Port of Seattle v.
Oregon-Washington R. Co., 255 U. S. 56, dealt with the
title of the States to tidelands and the soil under navigable waters within their borders. See Borax Consolidated v. Los Angeles, 296 U. S. 10, 15. Those cases did
not concern the dominant authority of the Federal Government in the interest of navigation to erect dams and
avail itself of the incidental water power. We emphasized
the dominant character of that authority in the case of

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

the Green Bay Canal Co., supra, by this statement, at p.
80: "At what points in the dam and canal the water for
power may be withdrawn, and the quantity which can
be treated as surplus with due regard to navigation, must
be determined by the authority which owns and controls
that naviation. In such matters there can be no divided empire." The case of Wisconsin v. Illinois, 278 U. S.
367, related to the diversion by the State of Illinois of
water from Lake Michigan through the drainage canal
at Chicago, and the questions now before us with respect
to the disposition of surplus energy created at a dam
erected by the Federal Government in the performance of
its constitutional functions were in no way involved.
(3) We come then to the question as to the validity
of the method which has been adopted: in disposing of
the surplus energy generated at the Wilson Dam. The
constitutional provision is silent as t o the method of disposing of property belonging to the United States. That
method, of course, must be an appropriate means of disposition according to the nature of the property, it must
be one adopted in the public interest as distinguished
from private or personal ends, and we may assume that
it must be consistent with the foundation principles of
our dual system of goveriiment and must not be contrived
to govern the concerns reserved to the States. See Kansas
v. Colorado, supra. In this instance, the method of disposal embracesthe sale of surplus energy by the Tennessee Valley Authority to the Alabama Power Company,
the interchange of energy between the Authority and the
Power Company, and the purchase by the Authority from
the Power Company of certain transmission lines.
As to the mere sale of surplus energy, nothing need be
added to what we have said as to the constitutional
authority to dispose. The Government could lease or sell
and fix the terms. Sales of surplus energy to the Power
Company by the Authority continued a practice begun by
the Government several years before. The contemplated

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

339

Opinion of the Court.

interchange of energy is a form of disposition and presents no questions which are essentially different from
those that are pertinent to sales.
The transmission lines which the Authority undertakes
to purchase from the Power Company lead from the Wilson Dam to a large area within about fifty miles of the
dam. These. lines provide the means of distributing the
electric energy, generatdd at the dam, to a large population. They furnish a method of reaching a market. The
alternative method is to sell the surplus energy at the
dam, and the market there appears to be limited to one
purchaser, the Alabama Power Company, and its affiliated interests. We know of no constitutional ground
upon which the Federal Government can be denied the
right to seek a wider market. We suppose that in the
early days of mining in the West, if the Government had
undertaken to operate a silver mine on its domain, it
could have acquired the mules or horses and equipment
to carry its silver to market. And the transmission lines
for electric energy are but a facility for conveying to market that particular sort of property, and the acquisition
of these lines raises no different constitutional question,
unless in some way there is an invasion of the rights reserved to the State or to the people. We find no basis for
concluding that the limited undertaking with the Alabama Power Company amounts to such an invasion.
Certainly, the Alabama Power .Company has no constitutional right to insist that it shall be the sole purchaser of
the energy generated at the Wilson Dam; that the energy
shall be sold to it or go to waste.
We limit our decision to the case before us, as we have
defined it. The argument is earnestly presented that the
Government by virtue of its ownership of the dam and
power plant could not establish a steel mill and make and
sell steel products, or a factory to manufacture clothing
or shoes for the public, and thus attempt to make its

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 1.S.

ownership of energy, generated at its dam, a means of
carrying on competitive commercial enterprises and thus
drawing to the Federal Government the conduct and management of business having no relation to the purposes
for which the Federal Government was established. The
picture is eloquently drawn but we deem it to be irrelevant to the issue here. The Government is not using the
water power at the Wilson Dam to establish any industry
or business. It is not using the energy generated at the
dam to manufacture commodities of any sort for the public. The Government is disposing of the energy itself
wrhidb simply is the mechanical energy, incidental to falling water at the dam, converted into the electric energy
which is susceptible of transmission. The question here
is simply as to the acquisition of the transmission lines
as asfacility for the disposal of that energy. And the
Goverment rightly conceded at the bar, in substance,
that i was without constitutional authority to acquire
or di ose of such energy except as it comes into being in
the 'operation of works constructed in the exercise of some
power' delegated to the United States. As we have said,
these transmission lines lead directly from the dam, which
has been lawfully constructed, and the question of the
constitutional right of the Government to acquire or operate, Jopal or urban distribution systems is not involved.
WQ 'express no opinion as to the validity of such an effort,
as to the status of any other dam or power development
in he Tennessee Valley, whether connected with or apart
fr6m ,the.Wilson Dam, or as to the validity of the Tenn( ssee Valley Authority Act or of the claims made in the
pronouncements and program of the Authority apart from
the questions we have discussed in relation to the particular provisions of the contract of January 4, 1934, affecting the Alabama Power Company.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

BRANDEIS, J.,

341

concurring.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, concurring.

"Considerations of propriety, as well as long-established
practice, demand that we refrain from passing upon the
constitutionality of an act of Congress unless obliged to
do so in the proper performance of our judicial function,
when the question is raised by a party whose interests
entitle him to raise it." Blair v. United States, 250 U. S.
273, 279.
I do not disagree with the conclusion on the constitutional question announced by the Chief Justice; but,
in my opinion, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be affirmed without passing upon it. The
Government has insisted throughout the litigation that
the plaintiffs have no standing to challenge the validity
of the legislation. This objection to the maintenance of
the silit is not overcome by presenting the claim in the
foirm of a bill in equity and complying with formal prerequisites required by Equity Rule 27. The obstacle is
not procedural. It inheres in the substantive law, in
well settled rules of equity, and in the practice in cases
involving the constitutionality of legislation. Upon the
findings made by the District Court, it should have dismissed *thebill.
From these it appears: The Alabama Power Company,
a corporation of that State with transmission lines located
there, has outstanding large issues of bonds, preferred
stock, and common stock. Its officers agreed, with the
approval of the board of directors, to sell to the Tennessee
Valley Authority a part of these lines and incidental property. The management thought that the transaction was
in the interest of the company. It acted in the exercise
of its business judgment with the utmost good faith.'
'The management explained that it was in the best interest of
the Company to accept the offer of the Authority for the purchase
of the transmission lines in a limited area coupled with an agreement

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

297 U. S.

There was no showing of fraud, oppression, or gross negligence. There was no showing of legal duress. There
was no showing that the management believed that to sell
to the Tennessee Valley Authority was in excess of the
Company's corporate powers, or that it was illegal because
entered into for a forbidden purpose.
Nor is there any basis in law for the assertion that the
contract was ultra vires of the Company3. Under the law
of Alabama, a public utility corporation may ordinarily
sell a part of its transmission lines and incidental property
to another such corporation if the approval of the Public
Sefvice Commission is- obtained. The contract provided
for securing such approval. Moreover, before the motion
to dissolve the restraining order was denied, and before
the hearing on the merits was concluded, the Legislature,
by Act No. 1, approved January 24, 1935, and effective
immediately, provided that a utility of the State may sell
ali or any of its property to the Tennessee Valley Authority without the approval of the Public Service Commission or of any other state agency.
First. The substantive law. The plaintiffs who object
own about one-three hundred and fortieth of the preferred stock. They claimed at the hearing to represent
about one-ninth of the preferred stock; that is, less than
one-forty-fifth in amount of all the securities outstanding.
Their rights are not enlarged because the Tennessee Valley Authority entered into the transaction pursuant to
on the part of the Authority not to sell outside of that area during
the life of the contract. It protected the Company against possible
entrance of the Authority into the territory in-which were located
nine-tenths of the Company's customers, including the largest; and it
assured the Company that so long as the latter retained its urban
distribution systems-within the territory served by the transmission
lines, those systems would be serviced by power from Wilson Dam.
Upon dlivery of the transmission lines, the Authority agreed to pay
the Company $1,150,000.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

343

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

an act of Congress. The fact that the bill calls for an
enquiry into the legality of the transaction does not overcome the obstacle that ordinarily stockholders have no
standing to interfere with the management. Mere belief
that corporate action, taken or contemplated, is illegal
gives the stockholder no greater right to interfere than
is possessed by any other citizen. Stockholders are not
guardians of the public. The function of guarding the
public against acts deemed illegal rests with the public
officials.
Within recognized limits, stockholders may invoke the
judicial remedy to enjoin acts of the management which
threaten their property interest. But they cannot secure
the aid of a court to correct what appear to them to be
mistakes of judgment on the part of the officers. Courts
may not interfere with the management of the corporation, unless there is bad faith, disregard of the relative
rights of its members, or other action seriously threatening their property rights. This rule applies whether the
mistake is due to error of fact or of law, or merely to bad
business judgment. It applies, among other things,
where the mistake alleged is the refusal to assert a seemingly clear cause of action, or the compromise of it.
United Copper Securities Co. v. Amalgamated Copper Co.,
244 U. S. 261, 263-264. If a stockholder could compel
the officers to enforce every legal right, courts, instead of
chosen officers, would be the arbiters of the corporation's
fate.
In Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, 462, a common
stockholder sought to enjoin the Contra Costa Waterworks Company from permitting the City of Oakland to
take without compensation water in excess of that to
which it was legally entitled. This Court, in affirming
dismissal of the bill, said: "Itmay be the exercise of the
highest wisdom to let the city use the water in the manner complained of. The directors are better able to act

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

297 U.S.

understandingly on this subject than a stockholder residing in New York. The great body of the stockholders
residing in Oakland or other places in California may take
this view of it, and be content to abide by the action of
their directors. If this be so, is a bitter litigation with
the city to be conducted by one stockholder for the corporation and all other stockholders, because the amount
of his dividends is diminished?"
In Corbus v. Alaska Treadwell Gold Mining Co., 187
Ui. S. 455, 463, a suit by a common stockholder to enjoin
payment of an Alaska license tax alleged to be illegal, the
Court said: "The directors represent all the stockholders
and are presumed to act honestly and according to their
best judgment for the interests of all. Their judgment
as to any matter lawfully confided to their discretion may
not lightly be challenged by any stockholder or at his instance submitted for review to a court of equity. The
directors may sometimes properly waive a legal right
vested in the corporation in the belief that its best interests will be promoted by not insisting on such right. They
may regard the expense of enforcing the right or the furtherance of the general business of the corporation in
determining whether to waive or insist upon the right.
And a court of equity may not be called upon at the appeal of any single stockholder to compel the directors or
the corporation to enforce every right which it may possess, irrespective of other considerations. It is not a trifling thing for a stockholder to attempt to coerce the
directors of a corporation to an act which their judgment
does not approve, or to substitute his judgment. for
theirs."
Second. The equity practice. Even where property
rights of stockholders are alleged to be violated by the
management, stockholders seeking an injunction must
- 2 See also Samuel v. Holladay, 21 Fed. Cas. No. 12,288, pp. 306,
311-312.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

BRANDEIS, J.,

345

concurring.

bear the burden of showing danger of irreparable injury,
as do others who seek that equitable relief. In the case
at bar the burden of making such proof was a peculiarly
heavy one. The plaintiffs, being preferred stockholders,
have but a limited interest in the enterprise, resembling,
in this respect, that of a bondholder in contradistinction
to that of a common stockholder. Acts may be innocuous
to the preferred which conceivably might injure common
stockholders. There was no finding that the property
interests of the plaintiffs were imperiled by the transaction in question; and the record is barren of evidence on
which any such finding could have been made.
Third. The practice in constitutional cases. The fact
that it would be convenient for- the parties and the public
to have promptly decided whether the legislation assailed
is valid, cannot justify a departure from these settled
rules of corporate law and established principles of equity
practice. On the contrary, the fact that such is the nature
of the enquiry proposed should deepen the reluctance of
courts to entertain the stockholder's suit. "It must be
evident to any one that the power to declare a legislative
enactment void is one which the judge, conscious of the
fallibility of the human judgment, will shrink from exercising in any case where he can conscientiously and with
due regard to duty and oficial oath decline the responsibility."-I Cooley, Constitutional Limitations (8th
ed.), p. 332.
The Court has frequently called attention to the "great
gravity and delicacy" of its function in passing upon the
validity of an act of Congress; 3 and has restricted exercise
of this function by rigid insistence that the jurisdiction
of federal courts is limited to actual cases and controversies; and that they have no power to give advisory
'E. g., Miller, J., in Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333, 382; Hepburn
v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603, 610; Adkins v. Children's Hospital,261 U. S.
525, 544; Holmes, J., in Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, 147-148.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

297 U.S.

opinions.' On this ground it has in recent years ordered
the dismissal of several suits challenging the constitutionality of important acts of Congress. In Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 258 U. S. 158, .162, the validity of Titles III and IV of the Transportation Act of
1920. In New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328, the validity of parts of the Federal Water Power Act. In
Arizona v. California, 283 U. S. 423, the validity of the
Boulder Canyon Project Act. Compare United States v.
West Virginia,295 U. S. 463, involving the Federal Water
Power Act, and Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273
U. S. 70, Where this Court affirmed the dismiksal of a
suit to test the validity of a Kentucky statute concerning
the sale of tobacco; also Massachusetts State Grange v.
Benton, 272 U. S. 525.
The Court developed, for its own governance in the
cases confessedly within its jurisdiction, a series of rules
under which it has avoided passing upon a large part of
all the constitutional questions pressed upon it fQr decision. They are:
1. The Court will not pass-upon the constitutionality
of legislation in a friendly, non-adversary, proceeding,
declining because to decide such questions "is legitimate
only in the last resort, and as a necessity in the determination of real, earnest and vital controversy between individuals. It never was the thought that, by mearns of a
friendly suit, a party beaten in the legislature could transfer to the courts an inquiry as to the constitutionality of
the legislative act." Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345. Compare Lord v. Veazie, 8 How.
251; Atherton Mills v. Johnston, 259 U. S. 13, 15.
2. The Court will not "anticipate a question of constitutional law in advance of the necessity of deciding it."
4E. g., Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409; United States v. Ferreira,13
How. 40; Gordon v. United States, 2 Wall. 561, 117 U?*S. 697; Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346; Willing v. Chicago Auditorium
Assn., 277 U. S. 274.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

347

BRANDEis, J., concurring.

Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. Emigration Commissioners, 113 U. S. 33, 39; ' Abrams v. Van Schaick, 293
U. S. 188; Wilshire Oil Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 100.
"It is not the habit of the Court to decide questions of a
constitutional nature unless absolutely necessary to a
decision.of the case." Burton v. United States, 196 U. S.
283, 295.
3. The Court will not "formulate a rule of constitutional law broader than is required by the precise facts to
which it is to be applied." Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co.
v. Emigration Commissioners, supra. Compare Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 275 U. S. 164, 169-172.
4. The Court will not pass upon a constitutional question although properly presented by the record, if there
is also present some other ground upon which the case
may be disposed of. This rule has found most varied application. Thus, if a case can be decided on either of two
grounds, one involving a constitutional question, the other
a question of statutory construction or general law, the
Court will decide only the latter. Siler v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 213 U. S. 175, 191; Light v. United
States, 220 U. S. 523, 538. Appeals from the highest court
of a state challenging its decision of a question under the
Federal Constitution are frequently dismissed because the
judgment can be sustained bn an independent state
ground. Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S. 45, 53.
5. The Court will not pass upon the validity of a statute upon complaint of one who fails to show that he is
injured by its operation.6 Tyler v. The Judges, 179 U.
'E. g., Ex parte Randolph, 20 Fed. Cas. No. 11,558, pp. 242, 254;
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 553; TradeMark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 96; Arizona v. California, 283 U. S. 423,

462-464.
1 E. g., Hatch. v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160-161; Corporation
Commission v. Lowe, 281 U. S. 431, 438; Heald v. District of Columbia, 259 U. S. 114, 123; Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163,
167; Concordia Fire Insurance Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S. 535, 547.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEis, J., concurring.-

297 U. S.

S. 405; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 621. Among

the many applications of this rule, none is more striking
than the denial of the right of challenge to one-who lacks
a personal or property right. Thus, the challenge by a
public official interested only in the performance of his
official duty will not be entertained. Columbus & Greenville Ry. v. Miller, 283 U. S. 96, 99-400. In Fairchildv.
Hughes, 258 U. S. 126, the Court affirmed the dismissal
6f a suit brought by a citizen who sought to have the
Nineteenth Amendment declared unconstitutional. In
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, the challenge of
the federal Maternity Act was not entertained although
made by the Commonwealth on behalf of all its
citizens.

6. The Court will not pass upon the constitutionality
of a statute at the instance of one who has availed himself of its benefits.7 Great Falls Mfg. Co. v. Attorney
General, 124 U. S. 581; Wall v. Parrot Silver & Copper
Co., 244 U. S. 407, 411-412; St. Louis Malleable Casting
Co. v. PrendergastConstruction Co., 260 U. S. 469.
7. "When the validity of an act of the Congress is drawn
in question, and even if a serious doubt of constitutionality is raised, it is a cardinal principle that this Court will
first ascertain whether a construction of the statute is
fairly possible by which the -question may be avoided."
Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 62.8
7Compare Electric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S. 489; Pierce v. Somerset
Ry., 171 U. S. 641, 648; Leonard v. Vicksburg, S. & P. R. Co., 198
U. S.416, 422.
'E. g., United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S.366,
407-408; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401;
Baender v. Barnett, 255 U. S.224; Texas v. Eastern Texas R. Co.,
258 U. S. 204, 217; Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S.375, 390;
Linder v. United States, 268 U. S.5, 17-18; Missouri Pacific R. Co.
v. Boone, 270 U. S.466, 471-472; Richmond Screw Anchor Co. v.
United States, 275 U. S.331, 346; Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S.142,
148; Lucas v. Alexander, 279 U. S.573, 577; Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Oregon-WashingtonR. & N. Co., 288 U. S. 14, 40.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

349

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

Fourth. I am aware that, on several occasions, this
Court passed upon important constitutional questions
which were presented in stockholders' suits bearing a superficial resemblance to that now before us. But in none
of those cases was the question presented under circumstances similar to those at bar. In none, were the plaintiffs preferred stockholders. In some, the Court dealt
largely with questions of federal jurisdiction and collusion. In most, the propriety of considering the constitutional question was not challenged by any party. In
most, the statute challenged imposed a burden upon the
corporation and penalties for failure to discharge it;
whereas the Tennessee Valley Authority Act imposed no
obligation upon the Alabama Power Company, and under
the contract it received a valuable consideration. Among
other things, the Authority agreed not to sell outside the
area covered by the contract, and thus preserved the corporation against possible serious competition. The effect
of this agreement was equivalent to a compromise of a
doubtful cause of action. Certainly, the alleged invalidity of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act was not a matter so clear as to make compromise illegitimate. These
circumstances present feature;, differentiating the case at
bar from all the cases in which stockholders have been
held entitled to have this Court pass upon the constitutionality of a statute which the directors had refused to
challenge. The cases commonly cited are these: I
Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 341-346, was a suit
brought by a common stockholder to enjoin a breach of
trust by the directors which, if submitted to, would seriously injure the plaintiff. The Court drew clearly the
distinction between "an error of judgment" and a breach
"Others are Memphis v. Dean, 8 Wall. 64, 73; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 515-518; Corbus v. Alaska Treadwell Gold Mining
Co., 187 U. S. 455; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 143; Delaware
& Hudson Co. v. Albany & Susquehanna R. Co., 213 U. S. 435;
Wathen v. Jackson Oil & Refining Co., 235 U. S. 635.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

297 U.S.

of duty; declared that it could not interfere if there was
only an error of judgment; held that on the facts the
threatened action of the directors would be a breach of
trust; and pointed to the serious injury necessarily resulting therefrom to the 'plainfiff.10
Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, 15-16, was a

suit brought by a common stockholder to enjoin the enforcement of a statute alleged to be unconstitutional as
repealing the corporation's charter. The Court said: "It
is sufficient to say that this bill presents so strong a case
of the total destruction of the corporate existence .. .
that we think the complainant as a stockholder comes
within the rule . . . which authorizes a shareholder to

maintain a suit to prevent such a disaster, where the
corporation peremptorily refuses to mov'in the matter."
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429,

553-554, was a suit brought by a common stockholder
to enjoin a breach of trust by paying voluntarily a tax
which was said to be illegal. The stockholder's substantive right to object was not challenged. The question
raised was that of equity jurisdiction. The allegation of
threatened irreparable damage to the corporation and
10'The resolution of the directors (p. 340) was this: "Resolved
that we fully concur in the views expressed in said letter as to the
illegality of the tax therein named, and believe it to be in no way
binding upon the bank; but, in consideration of the many obstacles
in the way of testing the law in the courts of the State, we cannot
ionsent to take the action which we are called upon to take, but
must leave the said Kleman to pursue such measures as he may deem
best in the premises." Referring to Dodge v. Woolsey, the Court
pointed out in Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, 459: "As the law
then stood there was no means by which the bank, being a citizen of
the same State with Dodge, the tax-collector, could bring into a
court of the United States the right which it asserted under the
Constitution, to be relieved of the tax in question, except by writ
of error to a State court from the Supreme Court of the United
States."

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

351

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

to the plaintiff was admitted. The Court said: "The objection of adequate remedy at law was not raised below,
nor is it now raised by appellees, if it could be entertained at all at this stage of the proceedings; and, so far
as it was within the power of the government to do so,
the question of jurisdiction, for the purposes of the case,
was explicitly waived on the argument. . . . Under these
circumstances, we should not be justified in declining to
proceed to judgment upon the merits." The jurisdictional issue discussed in the dissent (157 U. S. at 608-612)
was the' effect of R. S. § 3224.
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79,
113, was a suit brought by a common stockholder to enjoin enforcement of a rate statute alleged to be unconstitutional against which the directors refused to protect
the corporation. It was alleged and found that its enforcement would subject the company to great and irreparable loss. The serious contention concerning jurisdiction was, as stated by Mr. Justice Brewer, whether a
suit lay against the Attorney General of the State. Of
the jurisdiction of the suit "as one involving a controversy
between the stockholders and the corporation and its
officers, no serious question is made."
Chicago v. Mills, 204 U. S. 321, was a suit brought by
a common stockholder of the People's Gas, Light and
Coke Company to enjoin enforcement of an ordinance
alleged to be illegal. The sole question before this .Court
was whether the federal court had jurisdiction. That
question raised an issue of fact. This Court in affirming
the judgment below said (p. 331): "Upon the whole record we agree with the Circuit Court that the testimony
does not disclose that the jurisdiction of the Federal court
was collusively and fraudulently invoked ..
Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 9-10,
was a suit brought by a common stockholder to restrain
the corporation from voluntarily paying a tax alleged to

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

297 U.S.

be invalid. As stated by plaintiff's counsel: "The contention is-and this is the only objection that is made to
the suit-that it seeks to do indirectly what the Revised
Statutes [ § 3224] have said shall not be done; namely, enjoin the collection of a tax." The Court, assuming that
the averments were identical with those in the Pollock
case, declared that the right of the stockholder to sue
was clear..
Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S. 180,
199-202, was a suit brought by a common stockholder to
enjoin investment by the company in bonds issued under
the Federal Farm Loan Act. Neither the parties, nor the
government which filed briefs as amicus, made any objection to the jurisdiction. But as both parties were citizens of Missouri, the Court raised, and considered fully,
the question whether there was federal jurisdiction under
§ 24 of the Judicial Code. It was on this question that
Mr. Justice Holmes and Mr. Justice McReynolds dissented. The Court held that there was federal jurisdiction; and upon averments of the bill, assumed to be adequate, sustained the right of the stockholder to invoke
the equitable remedy on the authority of the Brushaber
and Pollock cases.
Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 60-63, was a suit by members of the Board of Trade of Chicago to restrain enforcement of the Future Trading .Act, alleged to be unconstitutional. The Court held that the averments of the
bill, which included allegations of irreparable injury,
stated "sufficient equitable grounds to justify granting the
relief" on the cases above cited.
If, or in so far as, any of the cases discussed may be
deemed authority for sustaining this bill, they should now
be disapproved. This Court, while recognizing the soundness of the rule of stare decisis where appropriate, has not
hesitated to overrule earlier decisions shown, upon fuller

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

353

BRANDEIS, J., concurring.

consideration, to be erroneous. 1 Our present keener
appreciation of the wisdom of limiting our decisions rigidly to questions essential to the disposition of the case
before the court is evidenced by United States v. Hastings,
296 U. S. 188, decided at this term. There, we overruled
United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 195, long a controlling authority on the Criminal Appeals Act.
Fifth. If the Company ever had a right to challenge
the transaction with the Tennessee Valley Authority, its
right had been lost by estoppel before this suit was begun;
and as it is the Company's right which plaintiffs seek to
enforce, they also are necessarily estopped. The Tennessee Valley Authority Act became a law on May 18,
1933. Between that date and January, 1934, the Company and its associates purchased approximately 230,000,000 kwh electric energy at Wilson Dam. Under the contract of January 4, 1934, which is here assailed, continued
purchase of Wilson Dam power was provided for and
made; and the Authority has acted in other matters in
reliance on the contract. In May, 1934, the Company
applied to the Alabama Public Service Commission for
approval of the transfers provided for in the contract;
and on June 1, 1934, the Commission made in general
terms its finding that the proposed sale of the properties
was consistent with the public interest. Moreover, the
plaintiffs in their own right are estopped by their long
inaction. Although widespread publicity was given to
the negotiations for the contract and to these later pro"A notable recent example is Humphrey's Executor v. United
States, 295 U. S. 602, which limited (p. 626 et seq.) Myers v. United
States, 272 U. S. 52, disapproving important statements in the opinion. For lists of decisions of this Court later overruled, see Burnet v.
Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 406-409; Malcolm Sharp,
Movement in Supreme Court Adjudication-A Study of Modified and
Overruled Decisions, 46 Harv. L. Rev. 361, 593, 795.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
BRANDEIS,

J., concurring.

297 U.S.

c6edings, the plaintiffs made no protest until August 7,
1934; and did not begin this suit until more than eight
months after the execution of the contract. Others-certain ice and coal companies who thought they would
suffer as competitors-appeared before the Commission
in opposition to the action of the Authority; and apparently they are now contributing to the expenses of this
litigation.
Sixth: Even where by the substantive law stockholders
have a standing to challenge the validity of legislation
under which the management of a corporation is acting,
courts should, in the exercise of their discretion, refuse an
injunction unless the alleged invalidity is clear. This
would seem to follow as a corollary of the long established
presumption in favor of the constitutionality of a statute.
Mr. Justice Iredell said, as early as 1798, in Calder v.
Bull., 3 Dall. 386, 399: "If any act of Congress, or of the
Legislature of a state, violates those constitutional provisions, it is unquestionably void; though, I admit, that as
the authority to declare it void is of a delicate and awful
nature, the Court will never resort to that authority, but
in a clear and urgent case."
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said, in Dartmouth College
v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 625: "On more than one occasion, this Court has expressed the cautious circumspection
with which it approaches the consideration of such questions; and has declafed, that, in no doubtful case, would
it pronounce a legislative act to be contrary to the constitution."' 2
12

1n 1811, Chief Justice Tilghman of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, while asserting the power of the court to hold laws unconstitutional, but declining to exercise it in a particular case, stated
the practice as follows: "For weighty reasons, it has been assumed as
a principle in constitutional constructiol. v the Supreme Court of
the United States, by this court, and every other court of reputation in the United States, that an Act of the legislature is not to be

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

BRANDEIS, J.,

355

concurring.

Mr. Justice Washington said, in Ogden v. Saunders, 12
Wheat. 213, 270: "But if I could rest my opinion in
favor of the constitutionality of the law on which the
question arises, on no other ground than this doubt so
felt and acknowledged, that alone would, in my estimation, be a satisfactory vindication of it. It is but a decent
respect due to the wisdom, the integrity, and the patriotism of the legislative body, by which any law is passed,
to presume in favor of its validity, until itg violation of
the constitution is proved beyond all reasonable doubt.
This has always been the language of this Court, when
that subject has called for its decision; and I know that
it expresses the honest sentiments of each and every
member of this bench."
Mr. Chief Justice Waite said in the Sinking-Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700, 718: "This declaration [that an act of Congress is unconstitutional] should never be made except in
a clear case. Every possible presumption is in favor of
the validity of a statute, and this continues until the
contrary is shown beyond a rational doubt. One branch
of the government cannot encroach on the domain of another without danger. The safety of our institutions
depends in no small degree on a strict observance of this
salutary rule."
The challenge of the power of the Tennessee Valley
Authority rests wholly upon the claim that the act of
declared void, unless the violation of the constitution is so manifest as
to leave no room for reasonable doubt." James B. Thayer, after
quoting the passage in The Origin and Scope of the American'Doctrine
of Constitutional Law, 7 Harv. Law Review 129, 140, called attention (p. 144) to "a remark of Judge Cooley, to the effect that one
who is a member of a legislature may vote against a measure as
being, in his judgment, unconstitutional; and, being subsequently
placed on the bench, when this measure having keen passed by the
legislature in spite of his opposition, omes before him judicially, may
there find it his duty, although he has in no degree changed his
opinion, to declare it constitutional."

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

Congress which authorized the contract is unconstitutional. As the opinions of this Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeals show, that claim was not a matter "beyond peradventure clear." The challenge of the validity
of the Act is made on an application for an injunctiona proceeding in which the court is required to exercise
its judicial discretion. In proceedings for a mandamus,
where, also, the remedy is granted not as a matter of
right but in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion,
Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308, 311-312,
courts decline to enter upon the enquiry when there is a
serious doubt as to the existence of the right or duty
sought to be enforced. As was said in United States v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 294 U. S. 50, 63: "Where
the matter is not beyond peradventure clear we have
invariably refused the writ [of mandamus], even though
the question were one of law as to the extent of the statutory power of an administrative officer or body." A
fortiori this rule should have been applied here where the
power challenged is that of Congress under the Constitution.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS, and MR.
JusTIcE CARDOzO join in this opinion.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTicE MCREYNOIDS.
Considering the consistent rulings of this court through
many years, it is not difficult for me to conclude that
petitioners have presented a justiciable controversy which
we must decide. In Smith v. Kansas City Vitle Co., 255
U. S. 180, the grounds for jurisdiction were far less substantial than those here disclosed. We may not with propriety avoid disagreeable duties by lightly forsaking long
respected precedents and established practice.
Nor do I find serious difficulty with the notion that the
United States, by proper means and for legitimate ends,

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

357

McREyNoLDs, J., dissenting.

may dispose of water power or electricity honestly developed in connection with permissible improvement of
navigable waters. But the means employed to that end
must be reasonably appropriate in the circumstances.
Under pretense of exercising granted power, they may not
in fact undertake something not intrusted to them.
Their mere ownership, e. g., of an iron mine would hardly
permit the construction of smelting works followed by
entry into the business of manufacturing and selling hardware, albeit the ore could thus be disposed of, private
dealers discomfited and artificial prices publicized. Here,
therefore, we should consider the truth of petitioners'
charge that, while pretending to act within their powers
to improve navigation, the United States, through corporate agencies, are really seeking to accomplish what they
have no right to undertake-the business of developing,
distributing and selling electric power. If the record sustains this charge, we ought so to declare and decree

accordingly.
The Circuit Court of Appeals took too narrow a view
of the purpose and effect of the contract of January 4,
1934. That went far beyond the mere acquisition of
transmission lines for proper use in disposing of power
legitimately developed. Like all contracts, it must be
considered as a whole, illumined by surrounding circumstances. Especial attention should be given to the deliberately announced purpose of Directors, clothed with extraordinary discretion and supplied with enormous sums
of money. With $50,000,000 at their command they
started out to gain control of the electrical business in
large areas and to dictate sale prices. The power at Wilson Dam was the instrumentality seized upon for carrying
the plan into effect.
While our primary concern is with this contract, it
cannot be regarded as a mere isolated effort to dispose of
property. And certainly to consider only those provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

which directly relate to Alabama Power Company is not
permissible. We must give attention to the whole transaction-its antecedents, purpose and effect-as well as
the terms employed.
No abstract question is before us; on the contrary, the
matter is of enormous practical importance to petitioners-their whole investment is at stake. Properly understood, the pronouncements, policies and program of the
Authority illuminate the action taken. They help to reveal the serious interference with the petitioners' rights.
Their property was in danger of complete destruction
under a considered program commenced by an agency of
the National Government with vast resources subject to
its discretion and backed by other agencies likewise intrusted with discretionary use of huge sums. The threat
of competition by such an opponent was appalling. The
will to prevail was evident. No private concern could
reasonably hope to withstand such force.
The Tennessee River, with headwaters in West Virginia
and North Carolina, crosses Tennessee on a southwesterly
course, enters Alabama near Chattanooga, and flows westerly across the northern part of that State to the northeast corner of Mississippi. There it turns northward,
passes through Tennessee and Kentucky, and empties into
the Ohio forty miles above Cairo. The total length is
nine hundred miles; the drainage basin approximates
forty thousand square miles. The volume of water is
extrenely variable; commercial navigation is of moderate
importance.
At Muscle Shoals, near Florence, Alabama (twenty
miles east of the Mississippi line and fifteen south of
Tennessee), a succession of falls constitutes serious interference with navigation; also presents possibilities for development of power on a large scale. During and immediately after the World War, a great dam was constructed
there by the United States, intended primarily for genera-

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

MCREYNOLDS,

359

J., dissenting.

tion of power. Production of electricity soon commenced.
Some of this was devoted to governmental purposes;
much was sold, delivery being made at or near the dam.
During the last thirty years, several corporations have
been engagedj in the growing business of developing electric energy and distributing this to customers over a
network of interconnected lines extending throughout
Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi. At great
expense they gradually built up extensive businesses and
acquired properties of very large value. All operated
under state supervision. Through stock ownership or
otherwise, they came under general control of the Commonwealth & Southern Corporation. Among the asso,
ciates were the Alabama Power Company which serviced
Alabama; the Mississippi Company which serviced Mississippi; and the Tennessee Company which operated
in eastern Tennessee. Huge sums were invested in these
enterprises by thousands of persons in many states. Apparently, the companies were diligently developing their
several systems and responding to the demands of the
territories which they covered.
In 1933, operations began under an mposing program
for somewhat improving Tennessee River navigation and
especially for developing the water power along its whole
course at public expense. This plan involved conver
sion of water power into electricity for wide distribution
throughout the valley and adjacent territory. Its development was intrusted to the Tennessee Valley Authority,
a federal corporation wholly controlled by the United
States. This promptly took over the Wilson Dam and
began work upon the Wbeeler Dam, twenty miles up the
River, and the Pickwick Dam, some forty miles lower
down. Also it commenced construction of Norris Dam
across Clinch River, a branch of the Tennessee, two hundred miles above the Wilson Dam. All these, with probable additions, were to be connected by transmission wires,

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McRnMoLDs,

J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

and electric energy distributed from them to millions of
people in many states. Public service corporations were
to be brought to terms or put out of business. At least
$75,000,000 of public funds was early appropriated for
expenditure by the Directors; and other governmental
agencies in control of vast sums were ready to lend aid.
Readily to understand the issues now before us, one
must be mindful of these circumstances.
The trial court made findings of fact which fill more
than sixty printed pages. They are not controverted and
for present purposes are accepted; upon them the cause
stands for decision. They are much quoted below.
Plainly they indicate, and that court, in effect, declared,
the contract of January 4th was a deliberate step into a
forbidden field, taken with definite purpose to continue
the trespass.
Nothing suggests either necessity or desirability of entering into this agreement solely to obtain solvent customers willing to pay full value for all surplus power generated at Wilson Dam. Apparently, there was ample
opportunity for such sales, deliveries to be made at or
near the dam. No attempt was made to show otherwise.
The definite end in view was something other than
orderly disposition.
The Authority's Answer to the Complaint is little more
than a series of denials. It does not even allege that the
contract of January 4th was-necessary for ready disposal
of power; or that thereby better prices could be obtained;
or that no buyer was ready, able and willing to take at the
dam for full value; or that the Board expected to derive
adequate return from the business to be acquired. No
sort of explanation of the contract is presented-why it
was entered into or whether profitable use probably could
be made of the property. And I find in the Authority's
brief no serious attempt to justify the purchases because
necessary or in fact an advantageous method for dispos-

ASHWANDER .v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

361

McREmxoims, J., dissenting.

ing of property. Nothing in the findings lends support
to any such view.
The record leaves no room for reasonable doubt that
the primary purpose was to put the Federal Government
into the business of distributing and selling electric power
throughout certain large districts, to expel the power companies which had long serviced them, and to control the
market therein. A government instrumentality had entered upon a pretentious scheme to provide a "yardstick"
of the fairness of rates charged by private owners, and to
attain "no less a goal than the electrification of America."
"When we carry this program into every town and city
and village, and every farm throughout the country, we
will have written the greatest chapter in the economic,
industrial and social development of America." Any reasonable doubt concerning the purpose and result of the
Contract of January 4th or of the design of the Authority
should be dispelled by examination of its Reports for
1934 and 1935.*
* From the Annual Report, T. V. A. Board for 1934, pp. 23, 24,
25, 26, 27, and 28.
To provide a workable and economic basis of operations, the Authority plans initially to serve certain definite regions and to develop
its program in those areas before going outside.
The initial areas selected by the Authority may be roughly described as (a) the region immediately proximate to the route of the
transmission line soon to be constructed by the Authority between
Muscle Shoals and the site of Norris Dam; (b) the region in proximity
to Muscle Shoals, including northern Alabama and northeastern
Mississippi; and (c) the region in the proximity of Norris Dam
(the new source of power to be constructed by the Authority on the
Clinch River in northeast Tennessee).
At a later stage in the development it is contemplated to include,
roughly, the drainage area of the Tennessee River in Kentucky, Alabama, Georgia, and North Carolina, and that part of Tennessee which
lies east of the west margin of the Tennessee drainage area.
To make the area a workable one and a fair measure of public
ownership, it should include several cities of substantial size (such as
Chattanooga and Knoxville) and, ultimately, at least one city of more

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

"The conception was to establish an independent network cowparable in all respects with the electric utility
system serving the area, with which TVA sought to establish interchange arrangements, both as outlets for its
than a quarter million, within transmission distance, such as Birmingham, Memphis, Atlanta, or Louisville.
While it is the Authority's present intention to develop its power
program in the above-described territory before considering going outside, the Authority may go outside the area if there are substantial
changes in general conditions, facts, or governmental policy, which
would necessarily require a change in this policy of regional development, or if the privately owned utilities in the area do not cobperate in the working out of the program.
The Authority entered into a 5-year contract on January 4, 1934,
with the Commonwealth & Southern Corporation and its Alabama,
Tennessee, Georgia, and Mississippi subsidiaries. The contract
covered options to purchase electric properties in certain counties of
Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee, the sale of distribution systems
to municipalities in these counties , restrictions on territorial expansion by the contracting parties, the interchange of power, and other
matters.
Alabama properties.-Al of the low-tension (44,000 volts or lower)
transmission lines, substations, rural lines, and rural distribution systems of the Alabama Power Co., in the counties of Lauderdale, Colbert, Lawrence, Limestone, and Morgan (except the Hulaco area),
were included in the contract; also those in the north half of Franklin
County, including the town of Red Bay, and the territory in the
northern part of Cullman County served by a line of the Alabama
Power Co. extending south from Decatur. The price of these properties was set at $1,101,256. The purchase had not been completed at
the end of the fiscal year.
The power company agreed to attempt to sell the local distribution
systems in the above counties to the respective municipalities, the
Authority reserving the right to serve them if sales were not donsummated within 3 months of bona fide negotiation and effort. Because of the failure of aniy [many] of the municipalities in northern
Alabama to consummate negotiations for the purchase of the distribution systems serving them, the Authority entered into negotiations for the direct purchase of these distribution systems, but a
purchase contract had not been completed on June 30.
Mississippi properties.-The contract covered all of the properties
of the Mississippi Power Co. in the counties of Pontotoc, Lee, Ita-

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

363

McRNoLDs, J., dissenting.

own power and to use existing systems as a stand-by or
back-up service."
"The TVA plan as conceived and in process of execu-

tion contemplates complete and exclusive control and
jurisdiction over all power sites on the Tennessee River
wamba, Union, Benton, Tippah, Prentiss, Tishomingo, and Alcorn,
except a dam site on the Tennessee River in Tishomingo County. The
purchase price was $850,000. The purchase was completed and delivery was accepted on June 1, 1934.
The transmission and generation facilities acquired in Mississippi
and to be retained as part of the Authority's system include the
following:
44,000-volt transmission lines ..........................
miles
63
44,000-volt substations ....................................
6
22,000-volt transmission lines .........................
miles
45
22,000-volt substations ....................................
4
Tupelo steam stand-by generating plant .... Kilovolt-amperes 4,374
Corinth steam stand-by generating plant .....
do
2,225
Blue Mountain Diesel generating plant ....
do
150
Myrtle Diesel generating plant ..............
do
75
Part of the local distribution facilities acquired in Mississippi were
sold prior to the end of the fiscal year and it is expected thai all
will be sold evbntually, as noted hereafter.
Tennessee properties.-The contract covered all of the properties
of the Tennessee Electric Power Co. in the counties of Anderson,
Campbell, Morgan (except the lines extending into Morgan County
from Harriman), and Scott; also those in the west portion of Claiborne County, and the 66,000-volt transmission line from Anderson
County to Knoxville. The price of these properties was set at
$900,000. The purchase had not been completed at the end of the
fiscal year.
Negotiations were carried on diligently for several months with the
National Power & Light Co., an affiliate of the Electric Bond &
Share Co., in an endeavor to acquire the eastern Tennessee electric
properties of the Tennessee Public Service Co., a subsidiary of the
National Power & Light Co. The electric distribution system in the
city of Knoxville is included in these properties. The negotiations
resulted in a contract after the end of the fiscal year.
Construction of -rural electric lines in northern Alabama and northeastern Mississippi was commenced in the latter part of 1933 with
relief labor, the Authority furnishing supervision and materials.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNOLDS,

297 U.S.

J., dissenting.

and tributaries." "The TVA policy contemplates full
corporate discretion by TVA in developing, executing and
extending its electric system and service within transmission limits." "This policy contemplated service utility
in type and covered not only generation but transmission
and distribution (preferably through public or non-profit
agencies, if available) both wholesale and retail. That is,
Relief labor was withdrawn on February 15, 1934, after which date
the work was continued by the Authority with its own forces. Approximately 93.5 miles of rural electric lines were under construction
in Lauderdale and Colbert Counties, Ala., on June 30,, and approximately 127 miles in Lee, Pontotoc, Alcorn, Itawamba, Prentiss, Monroe, and Tishomingo Counties, Miss.
A standard form of 20-year contract was devised to govern the
sale of power at wholesale to municipal distribution systems, and was
first used in a contract with the city of Tupelo, Miss. The Tupelo
contract has been published by the Authority and is available for

distribution.
Annual Report, T. V. A. 1935, pp. 29, 30The Authority has devoted special attention during the year to the
problems of rural electrification, as required by section 10 of the act.
By the close of the fiscal year 200 miles of rural electric line had been
built, and 181 additional miles Were in process of construction. These

lines are divided among the various counties as follows:
Alabama:

Colbert ....................................
Lauderdale ...............................
Mississippi:
Alcorn ...................................
Lee and Itawamba .......................
Pontotoc .................................
Prentiss .................................
Tennessee:
Lincoln ...................................

Miles
completed

Miles In
progress

19
72

15

41
41
27
..

29
26
7
104

181
Total ........................... ...... 200
In addition to the above, a number of the rural lines purchased
from the Mississippi Power Co. were rehabilitated in order to improve
operatirig and safety conditions, and to provide for increases in load.
Also, additional customers were connected to all existing rural lines.

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

MCREYNOLDS,

365

J., dissenting.

moreover, implicit in both the January 4 contract and the
now terminated August 9th contract."
The challenged contract is defended upon the theory
that the "Federal Government may dispose of the surplus
water power necessarily created by Wilson Dam and may
authorize generation of electric energy and acquisition
of transmission lines as means of facilitating this disposal." But to facilitat.'disposal was not the real purpose; obviously the thing to be facilitated was carrying on
business by use of. the purchased property. Under the
guise of disposition something wholly different was to
be accomplished-devotion of electric power to purposes
beyond the sphere of proper federal action, an unlawful
goal. There is no plausible claim that such a contract
was either necessary or desirable merely to bring about
the sale of property. This Court has often affirmed that
facts, not artifice, control its conclusions. The Agency
has stated quite clearly the end in view: "This public
operation is to serve as a yardstick by which to measure
the fairness of electric rates." "The TVA power policy
was not designed or limited with a view to the marketing
of the power produced and available .at Muscle Shoals."
"In formulating and going forward with the power policy
the Board was considering that policy as a permanent
and independent commercial function."
For present purposes a complete survey of relevant
circumstances preceding the contract of January 4th and
all its consequences is not essential. The pleadings and
findings. fairly outline the situation. What follows is
mainly quoted or derived from them.
The Act of May 18, 1933, created the Tennessee Valley
Authority as a body corporate "for the purpose of maintaining and operating the properties now owned by the
United States in the vicinity of Muscle Shoals-, Alabama,
in the interest of the national defense and for agricultural

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

and industrial development, and to improve navigation in
the Tennessee River and to control the destructive flood
waters in tJae Tennessee River and Mississippi River
Basins." It provided, a board of three directors "shall
direct the exercise of all the powers of the Corporation,"
and "is authorized to make alterations, modifications or
improvements in existing plants and facilities, and to
construct new plants"; and to "produce, distribute, and
sell electric power as herein particularly specified." The
Corporation "shall have such powers as may be necessary
or appropriate for the exercise of the powers herein specifically conferred upon the Corporation"; "to acquire
real estate for the construction of dams, reservoirs, transmission lines, power houses, and other structures, and
navigation projects at any point along the Tennessee
River, or any of its tributaries.
Also, the Board is "hereby empowered and authorized
to sell the surplus power not used in its operations, and
for operation of locks and other works generated by it, to
States, counties, municipalities, corporations, partnerships, or individuals, according to the policies hereinafter
set forth; and to carry out said authority, the board is
authorized to enter into contracts for such sale for a term
not exceeding twenty years." "In order to promote and
encourage the fullest possible use of electric light and
power on farms within reasonable distance of any of its
transmission lines the board in its discretion shall have
power to construct transmission lines to farms and small
villages that are not otherwise supplied with electricity
at reasonable rates, and to make such rules and regulations governing such sale and distribution of such electric power as in its judgment may be just and equitable."
"One of the first corporate acts of TVA after its organization was to formulate and announce a power policy to
govern the commercial distribution of electric power by
TVA, The evidence establishes the fact that the Board

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

McREYNOLDS,

367

J., dissenting.

from the outset has considered that it has general corporate discretion as to the establishment and extension of its
electric power policy. In establishing a power policy the
Board was not primarily considering merely the question
of disposal of power produced at Muscle Shoals no longer
required for governmental purposes as a result of overbuilding, obsolescence of plants, or termination -of war
purpose. Nor was it considering disposal of prospective
increases in electric power to be unavoidably created in
excess of some governmental requirement. It was considering the matter from the standpoint of the successful
establishment and permanent operation of an independent and well rounded government-owned electric distribution system and the general civic, social, and industrial
planning and development of the Tennessee Valley region
as a whole."
"Under date of August 25, 1933, TVA announced its
power policy, indicating both the initial stage of its development and certain later steps originally determined
This power policy had not been rescinded or
upon ....
abandoned or modified at the time of submission of this
cause."
"In September, 1933, the Authority announced its
wholesale and retail rate schedules, which are shown by the
evidence to be materially lower than corresponding schedules of the existing utilities in the area. Following this
action numerous municipalities in the area began to make
efforts to construct municipal systems with which to distribute TVA current, and Public Works Administration
(called PWA) gave assurances of favorable consideration
of applications for loans to that end."
Under such circumstances, Commonwealth & Southern
Corporation negotiated the January 4th contract for its
operating subsidiaries-Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and
Tennessee Electric Power Company.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
MCR YNOLDS, J., dissenting.

297 U. S.

This recited that the Alabama Company, the Mississippi Company and the Tennessee Company desired to
sell, and the Authority desired to purchase, certain land,
buildings and physical properties devoted to the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, together
with certain franchises, contracts and going business.
The Alabama Company agreed to sell for $1,000,000
all of its low tension (44 KV or lower) transmission lines,
substations (including the high tension station at Decatur
and the Sheffield Steam Plant Station) and all rural lines
and rural distribution systems in five Alabama counties
and parts of two others. [These counties are northwestern Alabama and lie on both sides of the Tennessee River
for eighty miles or more.]
The Mississippi Company, in consideration of $850,000,
agreed to transfer all of its transmission and distribution
lines, substations, generating plants and other property
in Pontotoc, Lee, Itawamba, Union, Benton, Tippah,
Prentiss, Tishomingo and Alcorn counties (except one
dam site in Tishomingo County) State of Mississippi,
used in connection with the generation, transmission, distribution or sale of electrical energy. [These counties
are the northeastern section of the state, a territory sixty
miles square.]
For $900,000, the Tennessee Company agreed to convey
its transmission and distribution lines, substations, distribution systems and other properties used in connection
with the transmission, distribution and sale of electrical
energy in Anderson, Campbell, Morgan and Scott counties, East Tennessee, and "all of the 66 KV transmission
line from Cove Creek to Knoxville." [These counties are
in the mountains northward from Knoxville within a
radius of about sixty miles. They lie northeast of Muscle
Shoals and some .pgints therein are much more than a
hundred miles from Wilson Dam. They have a population of 86,000.]

ASHWANDER -v.
VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

McREYNoLDS,

369

J., dissenting.

The power companies agreed, that "any conveyance of
property shall include not only the physical property,
easements and rights-of-way, but shall also include all
machinery, equipment, tools and working supplies set
forth in the respective exhibits, and all franchises, contracts and going business relating to the use of any of.
said properties." Also, "to transfer or secure the transfer
of said franchises, contracts and going business, and to
transfer said properties with all present customers attached, so far as they are able." Also, "that during the
period of this contract none of said companies will sell
electric energy to any municipality, corporation, partnership, association or individual in any portion of the abovedescribed counties or parts thereof in Alabama, Tennessee
and Mississippi," etc. The Authority agreed not to sell
electric energy outside of the specified counties to the
customers of non-utilities supplied by the power companies.
Other covenants provided for interchange of electric
energy between the contracting parties and for co~peration in the sale of electric appliances throughout the
entire territory served by the power companies.
"Power Companies covenant and agree that after the
expiration of this agreement the interchange arrangement then in effect will be maintained by Power Companies for an additional period (not exceeding eighteen
months) sufficient to permit Authority to construct its
own transmission facilities for serving all of the territory
which it is then serving in whole or in part with power
obtained at such interchange points."
"Power Companies agree to have available at all times
for exchange, at each point of exchange, energy and capacity to supply the entire demands of the customers
served by Authority from such points of exchange, subject to the limitations as to transmission capacity set
forth in Section 10 (h) hereof; Provided, that the maxi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
M REYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

mum amount which Authority shall be entitled to demand at all points of exchange shall be 70,000 k.v."
Prior to the agreement for sale The Alabama Company
had derived $750,000 gross annual revenue from its properties located within the "ceded area." This district had
a population of 190,000; and the Company had therein
10,000 individual customers-approximately 1/10 of all
those directly served by it. The lines transferred by the
Mississippi Power Company served directly 4,000
customers in 9 counties, having total population of
184,000. When this cause began, the Mississippi properties were being operated by TVA and rural lines were
in process of extension by it in both Mississippi and
Alabama.
"All of the electric properties and facilities covered by
the contract of January 4, 1934, ... were contracted for
by TVA for the purpose of continuing and enlarging
the utility -service for which they were used by the
respective power companies."
"The operation of a commercial utility service by TVA
and the wholesaling and retailing by TVA of electricity in
the area served by the Alabama Power Company is not
and will, not be in aid of the regulation of navigation or
national defense or other governmental functioi-in so far
as any plan, purpose or activity of the TVA or of the,
United States disclosed on this record would indicate."
Answering the Petitioners' Complaint, Alabama Company admitted "that the public statements of TVA indicated the program therein alleged; and the directors of
respondent company considered that to vest such an
agency as therein alleged with unlimited power and access to public funds, in a program of business competition
and public ownership promotion in the area served by
respondent company would in effect destroy this respondent's property; and such conclusion on its part was the

ASHWANDER v. VALLEY AUTHORITY.
288

371

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

principal inducement for it to enter into the contracts of
January 4 and August 9, 1934; and respondent company
thereby was and will be enabled to salvage a larger
amount of its property than it could have done by competition." Also, "that . under the circumstances of
threatened competition, directed or controlled by TVA as
averred therein, this respondent agreed to the sale of certain of its transmission- lines and property, and entered
into the contract dated January 4, 1934. . . Respondent
company admits that at and before the execution of the
contract, the threat was made to use federal funds to
duplicate the facilities of respondent which would result
in competition with rates not attainable by or permissible
to this respondent, and such rates would be stipulated,
controlled and regulated by TVA."
As matter of law the trial court found"The function intended by TVA under the evidence
in relation to service, utility in type, in the area ceded by
the contract of January 4, 1934, transcends the function
of conservation or disposition of government property,
involves continuing service and commercial functions by
the government to fill contracts not governmental in
origin or character."
"Performance of the contract of January 4th, 1934,
would involve substantial loss and injury to the Alabama
Power Company, including, inter alia, the loss or abandonment of franchises, licenses, going business and service area supporting its general system and power facilities
and unless resisted would tend to invite a progressive
encroachment on its service area by the Tennessee Valley
Authority."
"Congress has no constitutional authority to authorize
Tennessee Valley Authority or any other federal agency
to undertake the operation, essentially permanent in
character, of a utility system, for profit, involving the

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
McREYNoLDS, J., dissenting.

297 U.S.

generation, transmission and commercial distribution of
electricity within State domain, having no reasonable
relation to a lawful governmental use."
"The contract of January 4, 1934, expressly provided
for the transfer of all or substantially all of the lines and
properties of the Alabama Power Company for the service of the ceded area, included transmission lines, rural
distribution systems -and certain urban distribution systems, and contemplated the eventual transfer of fourteen
urban distribution systems. This contract, expressly contemplating service of the ceded area by the Tennessee
Valley Authority with electricity to be generated or purchased by the Tennessee Valley Authority for that purpose, was in furtherance of illegal proprietary operations
by the Tennessee Valley Authority in violation of the
Federal Constitution and void. The contract was accordingly ultra vires and void as to the Alabama Power
Company."
. Having made exhaustive findings of fact and law, the
trial court entered a decree annulling the January 4th
contract and enjoining, the Alabama Power Company
from performing it. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, upon the theory that the Authority was making
proper arrangements for sale of surplus power from the
Wilson dam. The injunction was continued.
I think the trial court reached the correct conclusion
and that its decree should be approved. If under the thin
mask of disposing of property the United States can enter
the business of generating, transmitting and selling power
as, when and wherever some board may specify, with
the definite design to accomplish ends wholly beyond the
sphere marked out for them by the Constitution, an easy
way has been found for breaking down the limitations
heretofore supposed .to guarantee protection against
aggression.

