TREIGLE v. ACME HOMESTEAD ASSN.

189

Syllabus.

175

volved in a trial in a district court is not persuasive when
weighed against the complete appropriateness of the court
and venue selected for the trial of issues growing out of
the particular activity in which the state has chosen to
engage.
Reversed.

TREIGLE v. ACME HOMESTEAD ASSOCIATION.*
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 287.

Argued January 9, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.

Prior to the adoption of Act No. 140 of 1932 by the legislature of
Louisiana, building and loan associations in that State were required, whenever the income ordinarily applicable to the demands
of withdrawing members was insufficient to pay all such demands
within sixty days from date of notice, to set apart fifty per cent.
of the receipts of the association to pay such withdrawing members,
and payments were to be made in the order of i.resentation of
notices of withdrawal. Act No. 140 abolished this requirement,
and the amount to be allocated to payment of withdrawing members
was by that Act left to the sole discretion of the directors, who
were authorized to apply the association's receipts to the making of
loans, to payment of old or new debts, to dividends to continuing
members, or to the creation of a cash reserve for future dividends.
A stockholder who, prior to the adoption of the Act, gave notice of
withdrawal, but whose demand had not been paid, although similar applications had been paid, challenged the validity of the Act
under the Federal Constitution. Held:
1. The Act impairs the obligation of the stockholder's contract
and destroys his vested rights in violation of § 10 of Article I, and
§ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal Constitution.
P. 194.
* Together with No. 288, Treigle v. Thrift Homestead Assn.; No.

289, Treigle Sash Factory, Inc. v. Conservative Homestead Assn
No. 290, Treigle Sash Factory, Inc. v. Union Homestead Assn.; and
No. 316, Mitchell v. Conservative Homestead Assn. Appeals from the
Supreme Court of Louisiana.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

297 U.S.

2. The Act is not justifiable control or regulation in the public
interest of the operations of building and loan associations and is
not a valid exercise of the police power. P. 196.
3. As the Act does not purport to deal-with any existing emergency and the provisions respecting the rights of withdrawing
members are neither temporary nor conditional, it cannot 'be
treated as an emergency measure. P. 195.
4. The challenged sections of the Act are neither intended nor
adapted to conserve the assets of building and loan associations,
but affect, merely the rights of members inter sese, and in this
respect are unreasonable and arbitrary interferences with vested
contract rights. P. 195.
5. The Act cannot be sustained as within the power of the
State to amend the corporation's charter. P. 196.
6. While building and loan associations, like banks and public
service companies, are peculiarly subject to the regulatory power
of the State, yet legislation affecting them must be confined to
purposes reasonably connected with the public interest as distinguished from purely private rights. P. 197.
7. Though the obligations of contracts must yield to a proper
exercise of the police power, and vested rights cannot inhibit
the proper exertion of the power, it must be exercised for an end
which is in fact public and the means adopted must be reasonably adapted to that end and must not be arbitrary or oppressive.
P. 197.
181 La. 941, 971, 972, 973, 974; 160 So. 637, 646, 647, 648, reversed.

APPEALS from judgments of the state supreme court
reversing in five cases judgments of the civil district court
holding certain provisions of Act 140 of 1932 unconstitutional and enjoining'building and loan associations from
compliance therewith.
Mr. Alex W. Swords, with whom Mr. A. Giffen Levy
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Delvaille H. Theard, with whom Messrs. Louis H.
Yarrut, Harry Emmet McEnerny, Azzo J.Plough, Percival H. Stern, Elias Goldstein, Joseph W. Carroll, and
William John Waguespack, Jr., were on the brief, for
appellees.

TREIGLE v. ACME HOMESTEAD ASSN.
189

191

Opinion of the Court.

By leave of Court, Mr. C. Clinton James filed a brief
on behalf of the United States Building & Loan League,
as amicus curiae, supporting the position of appellees.
MR. JUSTICm ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is one of five appeals 1 from a decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,2 presenting the question
whether certain provisions of Act No. 140, adopted by
the legislature of that State on July 12, 1932,' are consistent with Article I, § 10, and § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment, of the Constitution of the United States.
Prior to the adoption of Act No. 140 the laws of Louisiana provided that every -stockholder of a domestic
building and loan association should have the right to
withdraw as a member upon filing a written notice of intention so to do; and thereupon to receive the amount
of his investment and a share of the profits. Every association was required to keep a register, in which notices
of withdrawal were to be entered in the order of presentation; and to pay withdrawals in that order. If the proportion of the association's income ordinarily made applicable to the demands of withdrawing members was insufficient to pay all such demands within sixty days from
date of notice, one-half of the association's receipts was
to be set apart to liquidate such members' claims, until
all deferred claims were paid.'
'The companion cases are: No. 288, Treigle v. Thri4t Honestead
Association; No. 289, Treigle Sash Factory, Inc. v. Conservative
Homestead Association; No. 290, Treigle Sash Factory, In. v. Unio
Homestead Association; No. 316, Joseph Mitchell v. Conservative
Homestead Association.
2 181 La. 941; 160 So. 637.
The other cases are reported in 181
La. pp. 971 to 973, inclusive; 160 So. 646, 647, 648.
3
Louisiana Laws, 1932, p. 454.
'Act 120 of 1902, Louisiana Laws, 1902, p. 195, as amended by Act
280 of 1916, Louisiana Laws, 1916, p. 568.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

On May 19, 1932, appellant, as owner of fifty shares of
full paid stock of appellee, a building and loan association
incorporated and domiciled in Louisiana, gave a written
withdrawal notice. Thereafter the Legislature adopted
Act No. 140 of 1932. By § 53 the directors of any association are authorized, before making any appropriation of
receipts which may be applied to the liquidation of claims
of withdrawing members, to use its receipts and funds for
operating expenses, maintenance and improvement of repossessed property, payment of obligations and creation
of cash reserves for future dividends. Section 54 provides
that whenever, subsequent to the passage of the act, the
proportion of receipts ordinarily made applicable to the
demands of withdrawing members is insufficient to pay
all such demands within sixty days from date of application for withdrawal, the applicant first on the list shall
receive twenty-five per cent of the amount due him, not
less, however, than $500. As to any balance his claim
is to be transferred to the end of the list and, except as
hereafter noted, he is to receive no further payments until
his name shall have reached the head of the list. Each
pending application is to be similarly treated. New applications are to be placed at the foot of the list. The
association may, however, in its discretion, pay in full any
demand which amounts to less than $100 and may also
pay not more than $100 per month to any applicant if
the directors find his necessities call for such payment.
Section 55 gives the directors discretionary power to
authorize an allowance on the amount of unpaid withdrawals under such terms and conditions as to the amount
of individual withdrawals in view of the time the application has been. on the list, or otherwise, as the board
may decide; but the amount of such allowance is not to
exceed sixty per cent of the rate of dividend currently paid
in cash on continuing members' shares. The allowance
may be withdrawn at any tim- without affecting the

TREIGLE v. ACME HOMESTEAD ASSN.
189

193

Opinion of-the Court.

association's right to continue to pay dividends on the
shares of continuing members.
Section 56 empowers the directors to allocate, from
receipts or other assets,, sums to be paid withdrawing
members; and supersedes the earlier provision for setting
aside fifty per cent of all feceipts for this purpose. The
section further provides that twenty-five per cent of the
gross receipts may be used for making loans notwithstanding the existence of a withdrawal list and that all, or any
part, of the funds and current receipts may be expended
for payment of debts, operating expenses, or dividends to
continuing members.
The appellant brought suit in the civil district court
for the Parish of Orleans to restrain the appellee from
complying with the foregoing provisions of Act 140. In
his petition he recited his ownership of full-paid shares;
his rights under the association's charter and by-laws and
the statutes in force prior to the adoption of that act; his
application on May 19, 1932, for withdrawal of his shares.
He alleged that, subsequent to the date of his notice,
other similar applications had been paid in full but
that his had not been reached for payment; that,
in violation of the contract clause and the Fourteenth
Amendufient of the Federal Constitution, Act 140 purports to destroy and materially change his vested rights
as a withdrawing shareholder. A rule nisi issued, the
appellee answered, and also excepted to the petition and
demand for failure to state a right of action or a cause
of action. Judgment awarding an injunction was reversed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana and the suit
was dismissed.
The statute, in § 76, provides:
"Any person holding shares in an association . .. who
attacks the constitutionality . . . of any . . .provision
of this statute, must file suit to that effect against the
association within ninety days from the time when the

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

present Statute goes into effect; and said period of ninety
days is now fixed as the term of prescription within which
any remedy in that behalf must be instituted in the
courts by any member or other person; and the failure
to file such suit within that delay shall be deemed and held
by all courts at all times thereafter as an acquiescence in
. . . any . . . provision of the present statute, and after
such ninety-day period no further attack on the constitutionality of ... any .. . provision of the present
statute can be presented; . . ."
The appellant instituted his suit within the ninety-day
period. In his petition he alleged that he had no adequate remedy at law, and that he would suffer irreparable
injury if the appellee's officers acted as permitted or required by the statute. The Supreme Court said:
"There is no doubt, however, that the Act of 1932 did
prevent some of the many withdrawing shareholders in
building and loan associations throughout the state from
collecting the amount of their shares in full at the time
wheA payment would have been made if this statute
had not been adopted. We shall rest this decision, therefore, upon the proposition that the Act of 1932 did deprive the plaintiff of an advantage, and of a valuable
right, which he enjoyed by virtue of having his name
on the withdrawal list more than sixty days before the
statute was adopted. The question, therefore, is whether
the Legislature could deprive the plaintiff of the advantage and right which he enjoyed, without violating the
constitutional limitation forbidding the passing of a law
impairing the obligation of contracts, or divesting vested
rights." [954, 955.]
The statute impairs the obligation of the appellant's
contract and destroys his vested rights in contravention
of Article I, § 10, and Amendment XIV, § 1, of the
Constitution.
The court below held the challenged sections of the
act proper exertions of the state's police power, upon

TREIGLE v. ACME HOMESTEAD ASSN.
189

195

Opinion of the Court.

the view that state legislation to promote health, safety,
morals or welfare cannot be defeated by private contracts
between citizens, or nullified because it interferes with
vested rights; and, since building and loan associations
are creatures of the state, the- power to alter and amend
their charters inheres in the sovereign. The appellant,
conceding the correctness of these- propositions, insists
that the statute is not in fact a valid exercise of the police
power and cannot be sustained as an amendment of the
association's charter.
The appellee asserts the act was adopted to meet the
existing economic emergency; members of, and borrowers
from, building and loan associations found themselves
unable to keep up their dues and interest payments;
those whose savings were invested in the shares of such
associations were compelled by their necessities to seek
withdrawal of the investment; these conditions imperiled
the usefulness, if not the existence, of many building and
loan associations; the state had a vital interest in their
preservation and the equitable administration of their
assets in the interest of all concerned. The appellant replies that the sections under attack are neither intended
nor adapted to conserve the assets of building associations, but, on the contrary, affect merely the rights of
members inter sese, and are unreasonable and arbitrary
interferences with vested contract rights.
The act is a revision and codification of the statutory
law governing building and loan associations, including
their incorporation, management, supervision by state administrative authority, winding up and dissolution. It
does not purport to deal with any existing emergency and
the provisions respecting the rights of withdrawing members are neither temporary nor conditional. Compare
W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S. 426, 433-434.
The sections in ",,,tion do not contemplate the liquidation of associations, tAz' conservation of their assets or

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

the distribution thereof amongst creditors and members.
Other sections deal with these matters.' Section 54
merely changes the order of payment of those entitled to
withdraw their investments. The section effects no reduction in the amount of the debt, no postponement of
payment of the total, but a'redistribution of the proportions to be paid to individuals. The provision is comparable to a statute declaring that whereas preferred
stockholders heretofore have enjoyed a priority in the
distribution of assets, in that respect they shall hereafter
stand pari passu with common stockholders. Such an
interference with the right of contract cannot be justified
by saying that in the public interest the operations of
building associations may be controlled and regulated, or
that in the same interest their charters may be amended.
The statute merely attempts, for no disernible public
purpose, the abrogation of contracts between members
and the association lawful when made. This cannot be
done under the guise of amending the charter powers of
the corporation. Compare Bedford v. Eastern Building
& Loan Assn., 181 U. S. 227,
Under existing law, and the appellant's contract, fifty
per cent of the receipts of the association had to be set
apart to pay withdrawing members. By the new legislation this requirement is abolished and the amount to be
set aside is left to the sole discretion of the directors.
They are authorized to apply the association's receipts
to the making of loans, to payment of old or new debts,
to dividends to continuing members, or to the creation of
a cash reserve for future dividends. The sections permitting such use of the amounts collected do .not tend
to conserve the assets of the association, to render it more
solvent, or to insure that its affairs will be administered
so as to protect the investments of the continuing and
See §§ 66 and 67. See also Act No. 44, Second Extraordinary
Session of 1934, Louisiana Laws, 1934, p. 156.

TREIGLE v. ACME HOMESTEAD ASSN.
189

197

Opinion of the Court.

withdrawing members. They do alter the rights of the
withdrawing members as between themselves and" as
against continuing members.
The appellee bases its entire argument in support of
the challenged enactment upon the proposition that, as
building and loan associations are incorporated for a
quasi-public purpose, the state has a peculiar interest
and a concomitant power of supervision and regulation
to prevent injury and loss to their members; and it is
said that this court affirmed the principle in Hopkins
Federal Savings c Loan Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315.
We have no disposition to qualify what was there said.
We recognize that these associations, like banks and public service companies, are subject to a degree of regulation
which would be unnecessary and unreasonable in the case
of a purely private corporation. But laws touching building and loan associations, like those affecting banks or
utility companies, must be confined to purposes reasonably connected with the public interest as distinguished
from purely private rights. The legislature has no
greater power to interfere with the private contracts of
such corporations, or the vested rights pf their stockholders as such, under the pretext of public necessity, than it
would have to attempt the same ends in the case of a
private corporation. Though the obligations of contracts
must yield to a proper exercise of the police power,' and
vested rights cannot inhibit the proper exertion of the
power," it must be exercised for an end which is in fact
public and the means adopted must be reasonably
adapted to the accomplishment of that end and must not
be arbitrary or oppressive.
As we have pointed out, the questioned sections deal
only with private rights, and are riot adapted to the legitimate end of conserving or equitably administering the
Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398.
7 Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502.
6

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U. S.

assets in the interest of-all members. They deprive withdrawing members of a solvent association of existing contract rights, for the benefit of those who remain. We
hold the challenged provisions impair the obligation of
the appellant's contract and arbitrarily deprive him of
vested property rights without due process of law.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana must
be reversed. As numbers 288, 289, 290 and 316 involve
the same question as the instant case, a like judgment
will be entered in each.
Reversed.

THE PRUDENCE CO., INC. v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARY-LAND ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS- FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 270. Argued January 8, 9, 1936.-Decided February 3, 1936.
1. In an action by the maker of a building loan, secured by a mortgage on the building, to recover on a bond indemnifying him from
loss due to the failure of the borrower to complete the building in
time and manner as specified in the loan contract, the measure of
damages should be such as will place the lender in the same position
.as if the building had been completed as stipulated. P. 205.
2. Where the lender, in such a case, was obliged by the borrower's
defaults in construction of an apartment building, to foreclose his
mortgage, buy in the unfinished structure for less than the loan
and take a deficiency judgment, it was error to limit recovery on
the indemnity bond to the cost of completing the building in accordance with the contract; in the estimation of damages there
should be considered also the rents that might have been impounded in the foreclosure proceedings had the building been ready
for use, and the reduced value of the building at the foreclosure sale
because of its unfinished state. P. 206.
3. The difference between the value of the unfinished building, at the
foreclosure sale, and the value it would have had if completed as per
contract, may be considered as made up of two elements, the cost
of completion and the carrying charges meanwhile. These may

