500

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

the amount received by the respondent frorn a sle incIudes and is the result of increase in value of the property in the period prior to March 1, 1913. But the gain
accruing in that period did not accrue to property owned
by the lessee. .Neither the land nor the gain so accruing
before March 1 1913, became the lessee's property until
.1916 when it took up the option.
An alternative contention is that the exercise of the
option and the conveyance on November 30, 1916, constituted merely an exchange of capital assets,-a closed
transaction,--and the basis for calculation of gain was
the value of the land and improvements- at that date.
The capital asset, sale of which resulted in taxable gain,
was the land. This. was not an asset of the taxpayer
prior to the exercise of the option. We think it clear that
there was no combination of two capital assets,--the
optipn and $200,000 of cash, to form a new capital asset,
the land, Which was subsequently sold at a profit. The
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Reversed.
TERMINAL WAREHOUSE CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD CO.ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 351.

Argued January 15, 16, 1936.-Decided March 2, 1936.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission adjudging a
preference illegal upon complaint of a shipper but refusing to require reparation from the carrier upon the ground that no damage
was proved, is not conclusive against the right of the complainant
to recover damages from another shipper who enjoyed the preference and who had intervened in the proceedings but against whom
no damages were there prayed. P. 511.

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

501

Argument for Petitioner.

2. The remedy of a shipper for impairment of profits in his business
alleged to have resulted from illegal privileges and payments
granted a competitor by a railroad in interstate commerce, no
element of monopoly being involved and no conspiracy beyond the
mere agreement between the railroad and the favored shipper for
the forbidden preferences, is not by action for treble damages
under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act but is confined to proceedings
against the railroad and the favored shipper under the Interstate
Commerce Act. P. 511. .
So held in an action by a warehouse company against a competitor in the same city and a railroad, in which it was claimed
that damage to the plaintiff was caused by an arrangement between
the defendants, published in the railroad's tariffs and for a time
upheld by the Interstate Commerce Commission but later declared unlawful by the Commission and by this Court (Merchants
Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501), whereby the defendant warehouse company received certain concessions and
allowances upon the mistaken assumption that its facilities were
part of the railroad's station facilities and that it acted as the
railroad's agent in the handling of freight.
78 F. (2d) 591, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 560, to review the reversal of a
judgment for treble damages in an action under the AntiTrust Act.
Messrs. Thomas Raeburn White and John J. Hickey,

with whom Messrs. Walter W. Ahrens and Win. A.
Schnader were on the brief, for petitioner.
The denial of reparation by the Interstate Commerce
Commission was not a bar to the subsequent suit under
the Sherman Act against both respondents for injuries
resulting from their violations of that Act. The Commission had no statutory authority to award the damages
claimed even against the Railroad Company, because, as
the Commission found, they were- not "attributable directly" to the unlawful violations of the Interstate Commerce Act of which complaint was made. The action in
the case at bar is for damages-resulting fffom the conspir-

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioner.

297 U. S.

acy to violate the Sherman Act, and the injuries were
directly attributable to that cause.
The evidence sustains the verdict of the jury that a contract, combination or conspiracy existed to violate the
Sherman Act.
The evidence showed that the two respondents had
made an agreement whereby the Railroad Company
granted certain favors to the Merchants Company and
not to other warehouses on its dines, including allowances ostensibly for handling freight, the furnishing of
free siding connections and facilities, active assistance
in the solicitation of warehouse freight, and permission
to' allow inbound loaded cars to remain indefinitely upon
its tracks without demurrage charges, and whereby the
Merchants Company agreedto give to the Railroad Company all the shipments it could control, to accord preferential treatment to traffic moving, over the Railroad
Companys lines, and not to extend the use of its facilities to traffic of other railroads. The principal part of
warehouse freight moving in and out of the warehouses
of the Merchant Company was interstate in character.
The agreement was carried out by both parties, and
Merchants Company made full use of the advantages and
favors granted it by establishing unfair rates and practices which diverted business from other warehouses and
from other carriers, and tended to create a monopoly.
Citing: Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283
U. S. 501, 505; United States v. Standard Oil Co., 47 F.
(2d) 288, 298; United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1, 16; United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 543;
Anderson v. Shipowners Association, 272 U. S. 359, 363;
Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 115 Fed. 27, 30, aff'd 193 U. S.
38; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. I. C. C., 200 U. $,
361, 393; Swift & Co. v. United States,.196 U. S. 375, 402;
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Assn., 166 U. S.
290; United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 1"71. U. S. 505;

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

503

Opinion of the Court.

Ramsay Co. v. Associated B. P. of U. S. and C., 271 Fed.
140, reversed on other grounds, 260 U. S. 501; Sullivan v.
Associated B. & D. of U. S., 272 Fed. 323, reversed on
other grounds, 6 F. (2d) 100; U. S. Copper Securities Co.
v. Amalgamated Copper Co., 232 Fed. 574; Binderup v.
Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291; Chattanooga F. & P.
Works v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390; Hood Rubber Co. v. U. S.
Rubber Co., 229 Fed. 583; Local 167 v. United States,
291 U. S. 293.
The evidence supports the verdict 6f the jury as to the
damage suffered.
The evidence clearly showed that in carrying out the
conspiracy, the Merchants Company established grossly
unfair warehouse rates and practices, and that in consequence thereof the petitioner suffered heavy loss in the
actual handling of business which passed through its
warehouses during the period in suit. No claim was made
for business which petitioner lost in consequence of unfair
competition, but only actual pecuniary loss sustained by
reason of the necessity of giving free service or lowering
its rates to meet the unfair competition aforesaid. The
verdict was very moderate in amount and no complaint is
made of the judge's charge.
Messrs. John Hampton Barnes and Robert T. McCracken, with whom Messrs. George G. Chandler, Frederic D. McKenney, and Henry Wolfe Biklg were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of 'the
Court.
In this action under the Anti-Trust Laws (15 U. S. C.,
§§ 1, 15) for the recovery of treble damages, the Terminal Warehouse Company, petitioner in this court, accuses
a competitor, the Merchants Warehouse Company, and
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, an interstate corn-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

mon carrier, of an unlawful combination in restraint of
trade and commerce.
The business of Merchants Warehouse Company, which
for brevity will be spoken of as Merchants, began in January, 1887. Its site was the City of Philadelphia. At the
beginning there were two warehouses, both in convenient
proximity to the Pennsylvania's tracks and terminals.
Other buildings were added from time to time by purchase or by lease to serve other sections of the city. From
the outset Merchants had contracts with Pennsylvania
for privileges and payments special to itself. These are
the contracts of which Terminal complains. They were
renewed as they ran out from 1887 to 1931, a separate
contract being made with reference to each building. For
present purposes a summary of one contract will serve as
a summary of all, though they differ in particulars. For
illustration we choose the contract of January 25, 1917,
which has to do with the warehouse at Water and Chestnist .Streets. By this contract Pennsylvania agrees to
maintain tracks adjacent to the warehouse and to make
payments at stipulated rates for services rendered by the
warehouse in the receipt and delivery of freight. While
the contract is in force, there is to be no allowance for
such services to any other warehouse company in the
City of Philadelphia. In return Merchants agrees to give
a-preference to Pennsylvania over other lines in the use
of its facilities; to load and unload freight promptly and
efficiently; to collect charges due for incoming freight,
and to be responsible to the railroad company therefor.
No secret was made of the existence of this contract
or of any of the others. On the contrary, the substance
of the whole arrangement was set forth in the tariffs of
the railroad filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and open to the public. Pennsylvania there showed
that it had designated the warehouses of Merchants as
stations for the receipt and delivery of freight. It also

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

505

Opinion of the Court.

showed the amount of the payments and allowances to
be made to Merchants for services in handling freight
at the stations so designated. For many years the practice went unchallenged by any agency of government.
The assumption was that the warehouses, though not
owned by Pennsylvania, were, none the less, public freight
stations supplied by a contractor (United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 231 U. S. 274, 288), and that the
railroad in making payments or allowances for the handling of the freight was paying for transportation services
rendered by an agent. Decisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission bring this out in clear relief. Keystone Warehouse Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 53 I. C. C.
335; Keystone Elevator & Warehouse Co. v. Director
General, 73 I. C. C. 273, 274; McCormick Warehouse Co.
v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 95 I. C. C. 301. Those cases stood
unquestioned until 1928, when one of them (McCormick
Warehouse Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra) was reheard and overruled (148 I. C. C. 299), earlier decisions
to the same effect falling along with it. The conclusion
was then annolnced that a warehouse company doing
business under such a contract was a consignor or consignee, .acting on its own behalf and not as agent for the
carrier. With this change in its relation discriminatory
payments or allowances became forbidden and urilawful..
49 U.S. C., § 3 (1).
Terminal, a rival warehouse, organized in 1904, was
quick to occupy the vantage-ground left open by that
ruling. It laid before the Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint charging Pennsylvania with unjust discrimination in the practices described. It asked that a
restraining order protect it for the future, and that there
be an award of reparation for losses suffered in the past.
There were separate complaints as to the acts of other
railroads (The Baltimore & Ohio and the Reading), which
had terminal arrangements with wariehouses of their own,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

selection. Neither of these other roads had given a preference to Merchants, and none of the three was acting in
concert with any other. The Commission, adhering to its
ruling in the McCormick Warehouse case, held that. the
designated warehouses were in truth not public freight
stations, however the carriers might style them. From
this it followed that allowances and special privileges accorded on the footing of an agency relation would have
to be abandoned. Gallagher v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 160
I. C. C. 563. The railroads were required to cancel any
tariff provisions whereby "the facilities of the contract
warehouses" were made "a part of the respective station
facilities" of the lines affected by the order. They were
required to "cease and desist" from publishing or making
the discriminatory privileges and allowances growing out
of the attempt to treat the warehouse companies as agents.
On the other hand, the Commission refused an award of
reparation. "The evidence is far too vague and indefinite
to warrant the conclusion that complainants have suffered
actual pecuniary loss attributable directly to the alleged
unlawful practices."
The carriers, together with Merchants and other warehouse companies interveners in the proceeding, brought
suit in a federal court (three judges sitting) to vacate the
order of the Commission. The bills of complaint were
dismissed, one judge dissenting. 44 F. (2d) 379. Upon
appeal to this court the decree was affirmed. Merchants
Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501. The
opinion there rendered is so exact in its description of
the nature and effect of the unlawful practices as to make
elaboration useless now. In particular the court points
out that a warehouse designated as a station was in a
position to receive package freight in less than carload
lots, and ship it at carload rates without charge to the
customer for assembling the packages and loading them,
this by reason of the fact that the warehouse had been

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

507

Opinion of the Court.

paid by the railroad for doing that very work. To that
extent it could afford to underbid competitors. For the
same reason it had a position of superiority -over against
its rivals in unloading carload lots, for it could distribute
and re-ship in packages at the expense of the carrier.
This advantage as to package freight, if permitted to continue, would have taken the life out of rules designed to
limit the character of transportation services. By rule 23
of the Consolidated Freight Classification a carrier may
not distribute carloads of freight in less than carload lots,
nor assemble smaller lots into carloads. 283 U. S. at
p. 510. Thus the opinion makes it clear that the whole
system of warehouse stations, with its payments and
allowances, including the incidental saving of demurrage,
had been built upon a false foundation. Adherence to
the statute called for its suppression.
We have seen that Terminal asked for reparation as
well as for a restraining order at the hands of the Commission. There is no doubt that the Commission had
jurisdiction in response to that request to make an award
against the railroad for damages suffered by the complainant as a result of the unlawful practices. 49 U. S. C.,
§§ 8, 9, 16 (1) J(2); Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
United States, 289 U. S. 385; Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Ohio Valley Tie Co., 242 U. S. 288; Pennsylvania
R. Co. v. Jacoby & Co., 242 U. S. 89; Meeker v. Lehigh
Valley R. Co., 236 U. S. 412; Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
InternationalCoal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184. The Commission found, however, that nQ damages had been
proved, and its ruling as to that was final, not subject to
review by this court or any other. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. United States, supra, at p. 388; Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. Brady, 288 U. S. 448; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 235; Alton R. Co. v. United
States, 287 U. S. 229; Procter & Gamble Co. v. United
States, 225 U. S. 282. True, the complainant might have

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

confined itself to a request for a restraining order, and
after thus invalidating the preference have asked a court
for reparation. 49 U. S. C., § 9. It had a choice, in other
words, between a remedy at the hands of the Commission and a remedy by suit, but by express provision of
the statute it could not have them both. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. Brady, supra. Reparation under the
Commerce Act was thus permanently barred by the ruling of the Commission as against the offending carrier.
The situation was altogether different, however, iivrespect
of the liability of Merchants and other aiders and abettors. As to wrongdoers other than the carrier the complainant had not asked the Commission to fix the
quantum of the damages, thus relieving us of the duty
to inquire whether jurisdiction would have existed if
such relief had been demanded. 49 U. S. C., §§ 9, 16 (1),
and compare 49 U. S. C., § 42. Merchants would not
have been affected by an award of reparation if the Commission had found the evidence sufficient for that relief,
and it gains nothing from the fact that reparation was
refused. In saying this we are not unmindful that it
intervened in the proceeding. It was interested in the
event, for it would be harmed by a restraining order. 49
U. S. C., § 42. Intervention, though permitted, did not
broaden the complaint, nor add to the range of enumerated powers. Accordingly the framers of the statute
were careful to provide that aiders and abettors should
not go unwhipped of justice. In a suit under the Commerce Act, all persons soliciting or. procuring the allowance of a forbidden preference were to be liable, jointly
or severally, to make good the damage suffered. 49
U. S. C., § 10 (4).* Cf. 49 U. S. C., § 41 (3). Here was
* "Inducing unjust discrimination; penalty; liability for damages.
If any such person, or any officer or agent of any such corporation
or company, shall, by payment of money or other thing of value,
solicitation, or otherwise, induce or attempt to induce any common

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

509

Opinion of the Court.

an ample remedy to reach a guilty participant in an
unlawful discrimination, whether reparation against the
carrier had been granted or refused.
Petitioner, not satisfied to proceed under the Commerce
Act, put that remedy aside and brought suit under the
Sherman and Clayton Acts, hoping by that manoeuvreto charge both carrier and warehouse, and to charge them
with treble damages. Every act of wrongdoing proved in
the new suit to have been committed by the defendants
was proved against them also (with unsubstantial exceptions) in the case before the Commission. Now as before, the head and front of their offending is the use of
the warehouses as stations for the carrier with the allowances and privileges, such as exemption from demurrage, growing out of that relation. What is true of the
offense is true also of its consequences. There has been
no proof of any loss that would not be provable in equal
measure in proceedings under the Commerce Act upon
a claim for reparation. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
United States, supra; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.
Ohio Valley Tie Co., supra. Terminal does not show
that there was a conspiracy to establish a monopoly either
carrier subject to the provisions of this chapter, or any of its officers
or agents, to discriminate unjustly in his, its, or their favor as against'
any other consignor or consignee in the transportation of property,

or shall aid or abet any common carrier in any such unjust discrimination, such person or such officer or agent of such corporation or
company shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon
conviction thereof in any court of the United States of competent
jurisdiction within the district in which such offense was committed,
be subject to a fine of not exceeding $5,000, or imprisonment in the
penitentiary for a term of not exceeding two years, or both, in the
discretion of the court, for each offense; and such person, corporation,
or company shall also, together with said common carrier, be liable,
jointly or severally, in an action to be brought by any consignor or
consignee discriminated against in any court of the United States of
competent jurisdiction for all damages caused by or resulting there-

from."

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of transportation by Pennsylvania or of storage by Merchants, much less that a monopoly was actually attained.
There was no monopoly of transportation, for the statistics make it plain that the competing lines in Philadelphia had a large percentage of the business of carrying
storage freight. Moreover, Terminal is not here as the
representative of the railroads, and may not vindicate
their grievances, if grievances there are. More important
is the consideration whether there has been a monopoly
of storage. There are many warehouses'in Philadelphia
for the storage., of railroad freight. Neither Merchants
nor any other company has been able to engross the
business or has even attempted to engross it. During
the years of the unlawful practices, Merchants' business
declined proportionately to the whole, and Terminal's
increased, as did also that of other warehouses, so far
as the record supplies us with the relevant statistics.
Indeed, petitioner does not even claim that by reason of
the defendants' acts, it failed to get business that would
otherwise have come to it. If there was any claim for
such damages at the beginning it was explicitly renounced. What petitioner contends and has contended
for is this and nothing more, that to hold and attract customers it had to keep its charges down below the normal
rate, diminishing its profit to the extent of the reduction.
In a. word, its only damages are those resulting, in its
view, from the allowances for loading and unloading
or like discriminatory acts, and not from any conspiracy transcending these particulars, a conspiracy of
which allowances and privileges are a symptom or
an incident.
Upon the basis of that evidence the trial judge left it
to the jury to say whether Terminal was a sufferer from
an unlawful combination in restraint 'of trade and commerce. The jury found a verdict for $136,125 against
both defendants. This verdict was trebled by the court,
I

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

511

Opinion of the Court.

with the addition of a counsel fee ($27,000), the whole
judgment thus amounting to $437,338.81. There was an
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit where the judgment was reversed. The ground
of the, reversal was that the decision of the Commission
refusing reparation was a bar to any claim for damages
against either of the defendants in a suit under the AntiTrust laws as well as under the Commerce Act. 78 F.
(2d) 591. This court granted a writ of certiorari to determine the scope and operation of important acts of
Congress.
The order of the Commission denying reparation,
though it be assumed to be conclusive evidence in favor
of the carrier, is plainly not such evidence for the carrier's
confederate. We think it better to rest our judgment on
grounds applicable to both defendants. Whether .such
grounds exist is the question next in order.
First. Discriminatory privileges and payments given by
a carrier to a consignor or consignee are unavailing without more to make out a combination in restraint of trade
or commerce within the meaning of the Anti-Trust Laws.
To lead to that result the privileges or payments must be
the symptoms or incidents of an enveloping conspiracy
with its own illegal ends. In the absence of such a showing a sufferer from discriminatory charges and allowances has his remedy under the Commerce Act for any
damage to his business, and that remedy is exclusive
against all the parties to the wrong.
Two cases in this court, though not indeed decisive, are
apposite and helpful. The first, Keogh v. Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 156, was a suit under the
Anti-Trust Laws against railway companies and others
who were charged to have c6mbin d in establishing uniform rates and thus destroying competition, all to the
plaintiff's damage. True the rates had been approved
after complaint to the Commission, but this was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

enough, or Keogh so contended. He was entitled in his
view to the benefit of competitive rates, quite apart from
any finding that the rates established by concerted action
were reasonable in amount and without discriminatory
effect. In upholding a dismissal of the suit, the court
called attention to the provisions of the Commerce Act
whereby a remedy in damages was given for rates illegally
exacted. "If the conspiracy here complained of had resulted in rates which the Commission found to be illegal
because unreasonably high or discriminatory, the full
amount of the damages sustained, whatever their nature,
would have been recoverable in such proceedings. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Qhio Valley Tie Co., 242 U. S.
288. Can it be that Congress intended to provide the
shipper, from whom illegal rates have been exacted, with
an additional remedy under the Anti-Trust Act? See
Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 162 Fed. 354. And if
no remedy under the Anti-Trust Law is given where the
injury results from the fixing of rates which are illegal
because too high or discriminatory, may it be assumed
that Congress intended to give such a remedy where, as
here, the rates complained of have been found by the
Commission to be legal and while in force had to be
collected by the carrier?" 260 U. S. at p. 162. These
queries were coupled with a warning of the practical inconvenience attendant on any answer different from the
one that they suggest. "If a shipper could recover under
§ 7 of the Anti-Trust Act for damages resulting from the
exaction of a rate higher than that which would otherwise
have prevailed, the amount recovered might, like a rebate,
operate to give him a preference over his trade competitors." Id. at 163.
A second case pointing the same way is United States
Navigation Co. v. Cunard Steamship Co., 284 U. S. 474.
The suit was for an injunction under the Sherman AntiTrust Act and the Clayton Act to restrain a group of

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.,
500

513

Opinion of the Court.

steamship companies from continuing a conspiracy in
restraint of trade and commerce. The acts charged to be
illegal fell within the express prohibitions of the Shipping
Act of 1916 as amended, or were in effect, -evenif not in
terms, a component part thereof. 284 U. S. at p. 485; 46
U. S. C., §§ 801, 812, 815, 816, 876. The decision was
that the plaintiff must seek redress by application to the
Shipping Board. True, the Anti-Trust Laws, since the
enactment of the Clayton Act, have been explicit in'
providing that any one injured by an unlawful combination might have relief by injunction against threatened
damage to his business. 15 U. S. C., § 26; Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; Bedford Cut
Stone Co. v. Journeymen Stone Cutters' Assn., 274 U. S.
37. To this there is an exception where the subject matter of the complaint is a wrong within the jurisdiction
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in which case
an injunction, if granted, must be at the instance of the
government. 15 U. S. C., § 26; Central Transfer Co. v.
Terminal RailroadAssn., 288 U. S.469, 474. The exception does not apply, at all events in terms, to wrongs
within the jurisdiction of any other board. Even so,
the right to sue, however explicit on its face, was held
to have been partially superseded in respect of -private
suitors by the adoption of the Shipping Act, which as
to transactions within its range gave the only remedy
available. The conclusion was reinforced by a reference
to Keogh's case and to the need for a uniformity difficult
of attainment when jurisdiction is divided.
What was said in these opinions is precisely applicable
here. If a sufferer from the discriminatory acts of carriers by rail or by water may sue for an injunction under
the Clayton Act without resort in the first instance to the
regulatory commission, the unity of the system of regulation breaks down beyond repair. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Interstate

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

Commerce Comm'n v. Illinois Central R. Co. 215 U. S.
452; Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477, 483;
Great Northern Ry. Co.v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259
U. S. 285, 291; and see 15 U. S. C., § 26, construed in
Central Transfer Co. v. Terminal Railroad Assn., supra.
On the other hand, if the regulatory commission has issued
a "cease and desist" order, an injunction under the Clayton Act is inappropriate and needless. 49 U. S. C., § 16
(7), (8), (12). The same consideratiohs are applicable,
and with undiminished force, where the suit under the
Clayton Act is not for an injunction but for damages.
There too a finding of undue discrimination by the regulatory board is a necessary preliminary to a suit against
the carrier. See cases supra. Certain then it is that the
Anti-Trust Laws are inapplicable in all their apparent
breadth to carriers by rail or water. A consignor or consignee aggrieved by such a wrong must resort to the appropriate administrative agency, at least for many purposes. If he is remitted to the Commerce Act or the
Shipping Act to cancel the illegal preference, may he
pass over those acts and revert to the Clayton or the Sherman Act for the purpose of recovering damages? The
Commerce Act like the Shipping Act embodies a remedial
system that is complete and self-contained. It provides
the means for ascertaining the existence of a preference,
but it does not stop at that point. As already shown in
this opinion, it gives a cause of action for damages not
only against the carrier, but also against shippers and
consignees who have incited or abetted. For the wrongs
that it denounces it prescribes a-fitting remedy which, we
think, was meant to be exclusive. If another remedy is
sought unde cover of another statute, there must be a
showing of another wrong, not canceled or redressed by
the recovery of damages for the wrong explicitly denounced. The opinions of this court in their fair and

TERMINAL WAREHOUSE v. PENN. R. CO.
500

515

Opinion of the Court.

natural extension point to that conclusion. Keogh v.
Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., supra; United States
Navigation Co. v. Cunard Steamship Co., supra. The
opinions of other federal courts point the same way with
equal, if not greater certainty. United States Navigation
Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 50 F. (2d) 83, 86, 89, reviewing
the decisions; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 162 Fed.
354, 363; United States v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
142 Fed. 176, 184, 185; Glenn Coal Co. v. Dickinson Fuel
Co., 72 F. (2d) 885, 888. We follow these signposts to the
goal they seem to mark.
In thus holding we do not intimate that never in any
circumstances can a carrier become a party to a conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce with liability
for treble damages. This has been made plain already.
We enlarge on it for greater certainty. Wherein the case
is now deficient will be made clearer by example. One
may suppose a business of a manufacturer which has
assumed the form and size of a monopoly, or if not already at that stage, is well upon the road thereto. Cf.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 51, 61;
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106;
United States v. United States Steel Corp, 251 U. S. 417;
United States v. Swift & Co., 286 U. S. 106, 116. One
may add a, situation in which a carrier has knowingly
confederated with the owner to preserve such a business
or foster it. Whatever liability grows out of that alliamcce
is untouched by this decision. For present purposes we
may assume that if such a situation should develop, the
carrier would make itself a participant in the monopoly
which it had conspired to produce, though its only overt
act was a discriminatory rate of carriage. Again, a group
of manufacturers, whose business in combination would
not amount to a monopoly, might unite among themselves
to lay a burden upon commerce by concerted action as to
prices. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375;

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

United States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371;
Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600. If a carrier were to give a preference in furtherance of that conspiracy, it would become
a participant therein, or so we may assume, the damages
being measured not merely by the consequences flowing
from the preference, but by those flowing from the conspiracy in all its comprehensive unity.
None of these assumptions affects the case at hand.
For reasons already stated there was no conspirAcy to
monopolize the storage business to the destruction of
Terminal or of others similarly situated. There was no
conspiracy to impose upon that business a burden of any
kind; except to the extent that the enjoyment of a preference might increase the opportunities for profit of the
warehouse so preferred. Of any combination more farreaching, more inclusive in its aims, there is silence in the
record after every reasonable inference has been drawn
from. its pages. On the contrary, the history of the relation between Pennsylvania and Merchants indicates
strongly that the illegal discrimination, far from being a
symptom of a larger combination, was the product of a
mistake of law, which was shared for many years by the
regulatory commission till the decision in McCormick's
case laid down another rule. The mistake does not relieve the carrier from liability for the concession of a
privilege which has turned out to be .forbidden. It
serves, however, as a reminder that the liability must be
kept within reasonable limits, and that a preference innocent in purpose should not be magnified into a token of
a circumambient conspiracy.
We conclude that for Merchants as well as for Pennsylvania whatever liability was incurred through the forbidden discrimination was under the act to regulate
commerce and not for treble damages.
Second. The case having been submitted to the jury
on the theory that apart from the unlawful preference

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.

517

Syllabus.

500

there was evidence of a conspiracy in restraint of trade
and commerce, and the complaint having been framed
on that theory and no other, the suit should have been
dismissed as to each of the defendants.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals reversing the
judgment of the District Court is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

WASHINGTON v. OREGON.
No. 11, original.

Argued February 10, 11, 1936.-Decided March 2,
1936.

1. This Court will not exercise its jurisdiction to control the conduct
of one State at the suit of another, unless the invasion of right
complained of be of serious magnitude and proved by clear and
convincing evidence. P. 522.
2. The mere fact that a dam diverting water for irrigation from a
non-navigable stream takes the entire surface flow in times of
scarcity gives to an adjacent State lower on' the stream no equity
to an injunction against the State in which the dam is operated,
where water rights in both States are based on appropriation for
beneficial uses and where an injunction would wreak great injury
upon farmers in the tpper State who are dependent upon the
diversion and would probably not increase the flow in the lower
State because of physical condition of the stream-bed. P. 522.
3. The evidence fails to prove the contention that water diverted
from the Walla Walla River and used for irrigation in Oregon, is
used wastefully, to the injury of irrigators in Washington; or the
clontention that the pumping of water in Oregon and its use in
irrigating the lands from which it is pumped, materially lessens the
quantity of water otherwise available for use in Washington.
P. 523.
4. The right of land owners to make reasonable use of percolating
water by pumping from wells and applying it to the surface, considered and upheld. P. 525.

