OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U S.

of the State concerning liquidation of the business and
assets of an insolvent local corporation. The question
was whether, under the peculiar circumstances disclosed,
the federal court should retain jurisdiction; its power
generally to render judgment in personam against fiduciaries appointed by state courts was expressly recognized. Here there are no extraordinary circumstances.
As contemplated by Congress the Receiver sought an adjudication of his rights. The final decree produced no interference with the trustee's possession, nor with the
power of the Orphans' Court to order distribution of
assets. The Receiver's privilege to participate has been
declared; only a judgment in personam was rendered.
Congress has empowered Receivers of National Banks
to sue in federal courts; the obvious importance of permitting them freely to do so cannot be disregarded.
All necessary parties were brought before the trial
court. The claim to the contrary is without merit.
The challenged decree 13
Affirmed.

GEORGIA RAILWAY & ELECTRIC CO.

ET AL.

V.

DECATUR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 625. Argued March 9, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.
1. This Court reversed the judgment of a state court, at- a former
hearing, upon the ground that a statute of the State, as apparently
construed by that court, deprived the complaining party of property without due process of law; and by its mandate remanded
the cause to the state court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this Court's opinion. Held that the state court was not inhibited by the mandate from restating its construction of the
statute so as to avoid the constitutional objection, and from enforcing the statute as thus explained. P. 628.

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
620

621

Argument for Appellants.

2. A State may assess paving costs without regard to benefits,
against street railroads occupying the streets paved, while others
are assessed only on the basis of benefits. P. 624.
3. Constitutional objections must be properly presented to the state
court as a basis for their review in this Court. P. 625.
181 Ga. 187; 182 S. E. 32, affirmed.

from a decree sustaining a special paving assessment against a street railway company. The case
was here on a former appeal, 295 U. S. 165.
APPEAL

Mr. Walter T. Colquitt for appellants.
This Court has jurisdiction only over final decisions
of the highest state court. Therefore, whatever was before this Court for decision and was considered, passed
upon and decided, is final and conclusive, and becomes
the law of the case.
No question, once considered and decided by this
Court, can be reexamined at any subsequent stage of the
same case.
A praecipe which directs the state court to proceed
consistently with the opinion of this Court has the effect of making the opinion a part of the mandate, as
though it had been therein set out at length.
A decision rendered by a majority of this Court is as
effective as if all the Justices had concurred therein. A
dissenting opinion merely shows that the questions
therein discussed were before the Court and were considered and determined by the Court in the decision rendered in the case.
The mandate of this Court directed "that the decree
of the said Supreme Court [of Georgia] in this cause
be, and the same is hereby reversed." When, on the
same record, the Supreme Court of Georgia rendered a
judgment of affirmance, it did not comply with the
mandate.
The opinion of this Court was that the Georgia assessment statutes in question contemplate "the existence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

benefits to the railway company as the basis for the assessment." This Court's cohstruction of said statutes
is final and will not be altered, changed or reversed, in
the same case, by this Court after the term in which its
decision has been rendered.
When this Court adjudicates that a state statute has
been construed by thehighest court of the State in a certain way, the determination of such question is final and
conclusive and the law of the case.
Police power is subject to constitutional limitations,
and a party is entitled to a judicial hearing to determine
whether or not it has been arbitrarily or unreasonably
exercised.
In the previous litigation no claim was made by the
municipality that appellants were estopped from contesting their liability therefor. No issue or claim of
estoppel was raised or made by the municipality in the
present litigation.
The municipality is judicially estopped from claiming
an estoppel.
Appellants were given no hearing and no opportunity
to be heard on the question of estoppel. The issue of
estoppel -was not raised by the pleadings. Under the
due process clause of the Federal Constitution, appellants
are entitled to a notice and a hearing on material issues.
Mr. James A. Branch, with whom Messrs. William
Schley Howard and Scott Candler were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYwODS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
April 29, 1935 (295 U. S. 165), we reversed the decree
pronounced by the Supreme Court of Georgia in this
cause, September 18, 1934 (179 Ga. 471; 176 S. E. 494),
and sent it back for further proceedings not inconsistent

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
620

623

Opinion of the Court.

with the accompanying opinion. That opinion discloses
the circumstances of the litigation and our reasons for
reversal.
After notice to the parties, the Supreme Court, with
felicithus recognition of obligation to do nothing in conflict with the ruling here, again considered the original
record. September 30, 1935, after disclaiming any purpose theretofore to construe the pertinent state statutes
as unhappily chosen words had led us to conclude, it
announced their meaning and once more affirmed the decree of the trial court. A second appeal gives us
jurisdiction.
Appellants insist, first, that the decree presently challenged is not consistent with our opinion and mandate;
and, second, that, if the Georgia statutes be construed
and applied as finally ruled by her Supreme Court, they
will be deprived of equal protection and due process of
law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
As appears from our opinion of April 29, 1935, following long established doctrine, we accepted the construction of the statutes placed upon them by the Supreme
Court and decreed accordingly. Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10
Wheat. 152, 159; Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co. v. Risty,
276 U. S. 567, 570. So regarded, they empowered the
municipality to assess paving costs against the 'utility
only upon the basis of benefits received. And, as appellants had been deprived of opportunity to show the
absence of advantage, we held due process of law had
been denied.
After the first decree was reversed and set aside, the
cause went back for disposition by the Supreme Court.
Our mandate restricted its powers in that regard so far
as necessary to prevent conflict with rulings here, but
not otherwise. Only federal questions were open for our
determination. We accepted the construction placed
upon the statutes by the Supreme Court and held that so

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

to apply them would deprive appellants of a federal right.
We suggested no interpretation of our own, and did not
affirmatively indicate the further action to be taken.
Schneider Granite Co. v. Gast Realty Co., 245 U. S. 288,
291. The decree now under consideration is not in conflict with anything -said or done by us. Appellants'
claim to the contrary is not well founded. Without exceeding the limitations prescribed, the Supreme Court
reconsidered the cause, put its own construction upon the
statutes, and adjudged accordingly.
In the circumstances disclosed by the record, will appellants be deprived of the equal protection or due process
of law if the state statutes, as finally interpreted, are
applied to them?
Upon this point, counsel subxit:-Under the statutes
as construed, other parties would be subject to assessment
by the municipality for the cost of paving only upon the
basis of benefits; appellants would be liable without regard thereto. Street railways are entitled to the same
constitutional protection accorded to others, Also, that if
the special assessment was product of the police or taxing
power, the utility was entitled to a judicial hearing in
respect of its unreasonable or arbitrary exercise.
Considering our declarations in Durham Public Service
Co. v. Durham,261 U. S. 149, 154, that "There are obvious
reasons for imposing peculiar obligations upon a railway
in respect of streets occupied by its tracks," we cannot
say the Supreme Court erred in concluding there was no
violation of the equal protection clause. Fort Smith
Light Co. V. Paving District,274 U. S. 387.
The power of the municipality to require a street railway to pave streets used by it, without regard to benefits,
is clear enough. Durham Public Service Co. v. Durham,
supra;Southern Wisconsin Ry. Co. v. Madison, 240 U. S.
457, 461. The court below recognized the general right

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
620

625

Opinion of the Court.

to demand inquiry concerning arbitrary exercise of the
taxing or police power, when adequately alleged. But it
found that appellants had not set up that defense, except
as implied in the claim that any assessment not based
on benefits was arbitrary and unreasonable. The court,
we think, correctly said"There is no question as to the regularity of the assessment under the general law of the State, and the charter
of the city as amended, and the ordinances duly enacted
thereunder. It has already been determined that the
paving was done and that the assessment therefor was
made in conformity to the law. Payment therefor is
undertaken to be avoided by the power company on
the ground that the pavement was of no benefit to the
company. It has been held by this court, in construing
the law of the State in reference to street paving and cost
thereof, that a street railway could not defend against
the payment on the ground of no benefit."
Appellants Rave failed to show deprivation of any
federal right through denial of opportunity to rely upon
an adequate defense, properly advanced. We need not,
therefore, consider the conclusions of the Supreme Court
concerning an estoppel.
The questioned decree must be
Affirmed.

