SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.

553

Syllabus.

SUGAR INSTITUTE, INC.

ET AL.

v. UNITED

STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 268.

Argued February 3, 4, 1936.-Decided March 30, 1936.

1. The restrictions of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act are aimed against
such restraints of interstate commerce as are unreasonable. P. 597.
2. The Act does not forbid coiperative adoption by competitors of
reasonable means to protect their trade from injurious practices and
to promote competition on a sound basis; and such legitimate co~peration is not limited to the removal of evils which are in themselves infractions of positive law. P. 598.
3. The mere fact that correction of abuses in a business by co~perative action of those competing in it may tend to stabilize the business, or to produce fairer price levels, does not stamp their action
as unreasonable restraint of trade. P. 598.
4. But, concerted action which produces unreasonable restraint can
not be justified by polting to evils affecting the industry or to a
laudable purpose to remove them. P. 599.
5. While the collection and dissemination of trade statistics are in
themselves permissible and may be a useful adjunct of fair commerce, a combination to gather and supply information as part of a
plan to impose unwarrantable restrictions on competition, as for
example to curtail production and raise prices, is unlawful. P. 599.
6. In applying the Sherman Act, each case demands a close scrutiny
of its own facts, and questions of reasonableness are necessarily
questions of relation and degree. P. 600.
7. Fifteen companies, which refined nearly all of the imported raw
cane sugar processed in this country and supplied from 70 to 80%
of the refined sugar consumed in it, formed a trade association,
called The Sugar Institute, ostensibly for the purpose of doing
away with unfair merchandizing practices, especially the granting
of secret concessions and rebates to customers, which had grown up
in the trade. They agreed that all discriminations between customers should be abolished and, to that end, that each company
should publicly announce in advance its prices, terms and conditions
of sale and adhere to them strictly until it publicly changed them.
They also agreed upon a number of supplementary restrictions
(which are considered in detail in this opinion), among which were

554

OCTOBER TERM 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S.

(a) restrictions on the employment of brokers and warehousemen
(infra, 587); (b) restrictions concerning transportation, absorption of freight charges, etc. (infra, 589); (c) limitation of the
number of consignment points at which sugar was placed for distribution to surrounding areas and limitation of portP of entry to
be used (infra, 591); (d) prohibition of long-term contracts and
restriction of quantity discounts on sales to customers (infra,
593); (e) withholding from the purchasing trade of part of the
statistical information collected by the Institute for its members
and not otherwise available (infra, 596). Owing to the position
of these refiners in the sugar industry, maintenance of competition
between them was a matter of serious public concern; and, since
refined sugar is a highly standardized product, that competition
must relate mainly to prices, terms and conditions of sales. The
strong tendency toward uniformity of price resulting from the
uniformity of the commodity, made it the more important that
such opportunities as existed for fair competition should not be
impaired. Held:
(1) The agreement and supporting requirements went beyond
the removal of admitted abuses and imposed unreasonable restraints. P. 601.
(2) The vice of the agreement was not in the mere open announcement in advance of prices and terms-a custom previously
existing which had grown out of the special character of the
industry and did not restrain competition-nor in the relaying of
such announcements, but in the steps taken to secure undeviating
adherence to the prices and terms announced, whereby opportunities for variation in the course of competition, however fair and
appropriate, were cut off. P. 601.
(3) In ending the restraint, the beneficial and curative agency of
publicity should not be unnecessarily hampered; 'publicity of prices
and terms should not be confined to closed transactions; if the
requirement that there must be adherence to prices and terms
openly announced in advance be abrogated and the restraints which
followed that requirement be removed, the just interests of competition will be safeguarded and the trade will still be left with
whatever advantage may be incidental to its established practice.
P. 601.
(4) The refiners should be enjoined from gathering and disseminating among themselves exclusively statistical information which
is not readily, fully and fairly available to the purchasing and
distributing trade, and in which that trade has a legitimate inter-

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

555

Argument for Appellants.

business; but the command should not be so broad as to include
information in relation to the affairs of refiners which may rightly
be treated as having a confidential character and in which distributors and purchasers have no proper interest. P.-.
15 F. Supp. 817, modified and affirmed.

APPFAL from a decree of injunction in a suit by the
Government under the Anti-Trust Act. The bill named
as defendants an incorporated trade association called
The Sugar Institute, the fifteen sugar refining corporations composing it, and various individuals. The decree
below did not dissolve the Institute, as was prayed, but
permanently enjoined the defendants from engaging in
forty-five stated activities found to be in restraint of
competition in the sugar trade.
Mr. John C. Higgins, with whom Mr. Edward J. McGratty, Jr., was on the brief, for appellants.
The practice of selling only upon open prices and terms
without secret discriminations among customers is essential to the functioning of that type of competition which
is beneficial to the public interest. It has uniformly been
approved by the courts. United States v. U. S. Steel
Corp., 223 Fed. 55; 251 U. S. 417; Chicago Board of
Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231.
American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 377, and United States v. American Linseed Oil Co.,
262 U. S. 371, distinguished.
The Linseed Oil Company case did not involve a condemnation of an open competition plan in the real sense
of the term. It represented a flagrant example of a
scheme of unfair competition masquerading under the
name of open competition.
In the case at bar, the Sugar Institute was organized
to abolish the system of arbitrary and secret rebates and
concessions under which part of the buyers had been
given unfair and discriminatory advantages over their

OCTOBER TERM, 1935..
Argument for Appellants.

297 U. S.

competitors. And the abolition of these discriminations
was accomplished by making all prices and terms open
and public. There was no secret consultation or exchange of information among the sellers about the prices
or offers to buyers. There was complete and immediate
publicity of all prices and terms and other important
trade information to all buyers as well as to sellers. There
was no campaign or propaganda for decrease of production or increase of prices. There was no discussion of
prices or production at all. The Sugar Institute is the
complete antithesis of the Hardwood and Linseed associations in every essential particular, and the case at bar
presents none of the elements upon which the Hardwood
and Linseed decisions were based.
The decisions of this Court in Maple Flooring Assn. v.
United States, 268 U. S. 563, and Cement Manufacturers
Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, recognize both the
economic desirability and the legality of concerted measures to protect and promote the type of open competition
sought to be achieved by the appellants in the case at bar.
All of. the practices of the Sugar Institute in connection with the gathering and dissemination of price and
trade information are well within the limits of lawful
activities as laid down in the Maple Flooring,case. In
fact, they stop far short of the activities there approved.
Each member of the Institute has at all times determined
his own selling price in free and open competition with
every other member, without any Institute calculation or
discussion to guide or influence his action.
The relaying by the Institute of the price change
announcements of the members, after they have already
been made public by the members in the same way in
which they had always been made public before the Institute was organized, is clearly in line with the principle
of publicity of market information approved in the
Maple Flooring case. It merely gives wider and more

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

557

Argument for Appellants.

accurate publicity to what has already been publicly announced. It has none of the qualities of private propaganda for increase of prices, or secret consultation about
special offers to favored customers, which were condemned in the Hardwood and Linseed cases. It is the
exact opposite of those furtive practices, and is the closest
parallel which can be realized in an industry of this character to the competition of the Stock and Produce Exchanges, which is held up by economists and courts alike
as the ideal of free and open competition. In the Cement Manufacturers case, this Court definitely upheld
the right of competitors to co~perate for their own protection against imposition, misrepresentation and fraud,
even though they thereby concertedly restrict a type of
competition which they had long practiced and which
was not shown to be in any way harmful to the public. This specific application of the sound policy of upholding restraints of competition which have a reasonable basi' was also exemplified in the Chicago Board of
Trade case, supra, where this Court sustained an express
agreement of all the competitors in the market to eliminate completely a long-established type of competition,
not because it involved imposition or fraud upon themselves or others, and not because it was shown to be
harmful or destructive competition, but because it was
shown not to be as wholesome and beneficial as the type
of competition which was substituted for it by agreement
of the competitors.
The principles declared by this Court in those cases
were reaffirmed in Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United
States, 288 U. S. 344.
Section 2 of the Clayton Act condemns the type of
secret discriminations that were practiced in the sugar
industry before the Institute was formed; and the concert of action involved in the adoption and- observance
of this fundamental code provision represents the only

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellants.

297 U.S.

effective way of giving practical effect to the express
mandate and the underlying policy of that section. Van
Camp & Sons Co. v. American Can Co., 278 U. S. 245,
254; American Can Co. v. Ladoga Canning Co., 44 F.
(2d) 763, cert. den., 282 U. S. 899; StandardFashion Co.
v. Magrane-Houston Co., 258 U. S. 346, 356-7.
The practice of selling only on publicly announced
prices and terms, without secret discriminations in favor
of particular purchasers, is the only practical means of
protecting both sellers and buyers from widespread deception and fraud, which are an inevitable part of the
practice of secret price discriminations.
The steps taken by appellantg to give effect to the
basic agreement that sugar should be sold only upon
open prices and terms, without discrimination among
customers, did not constitute an undue or unreasonable
restraint of trade.
As for the price reporting system, the price reported
to the Institute is a price which has already been publicly announced to the trade by the reporting member;
the function of the institute is merely to relay and give
further publicity to the price announcement; the Institute relays the announcement not merely to the competitors of the refiner making the announcement, but to
the entire trade, including buyers as well as sellers,
through the most widely used public channels of trade
information; and no comment accompanied these relays
and no price or production propaganda of any character
was ever indulged in by the Institute, its officers or
members.
It is submitted that no case ever decided by this Court
affords any basis whatsoever for a contention .that the
mere reporting of already public price announcements to
a central agency in the industry for the purpose of giving
them wider publicity is in any respect unlawful.

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

559

Argument for Appellants.

The findings leave for consideration the naked question whether there is, in the concerted practice of announcing prices before sales, any such inherent tendency
to restrain or suppress competition as to require that it
be held unlawful under the Sherman Act. We submit
that this practice, as carried on in the case at bar, in a
trade like the sugar trade, promotes free and wholesome
and economic competition, instead of sippressing or restraining it; and it is therefore clearly lawful.
It may be that, in some other industries, selling products which are not standardized, so that price competition cannot immediately express itself with full force
when a competitor has announced his prices before sales,
it might be argued that announcing the prices after sales
would be preferable; but we can see no soundness in such
an argument even then. In the Steel Company case,
supra, where the company's practice was to "publicly
announce its prices, adhere to them with all buyers alike,
and to give timely notice of its purpose to change them,"
this Court approved the practice as a sound and wholesome one.
It may be also that when competitors agree that they
will not reduce their prices without announcing the decline some considerable time before it becomes effective,
there is present some element of restraint upon competition. But in the case at bar, as to price declines, no
waiting time at all was called for by any rule, or observed in practice. Price declines were not only instantly effective, but it was the practice to make such
declines effective on all business entered on the day of
the decline, even when the decline had not been announced until late in the .day, and this practice was
approved by an Institute Code Interpretation. Furthermore, the refiners sometimes repriced all business
entered for weeks before a price decline.

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellants.

297 U.S.

As to price advances, it is true that it was the practice of the refiners, approved by a recommendation of
the Institute, to announce such advances by 3 o'clock
of the day before the advance. But the prior announcement of price advances was not due to the Sugar Institute. It was a part of the sugar move system and had
always been the practice in the industry.
It is obvious, of course, that the prior announcement
of price advances is an advantage to the buyers, especially when it is practiced as in the sugar industry for
the specific purpose of giving customers a reasonable
time within which to place their orders for as large a
supply of sugar as they want to buy at a present lower
price before the advance becomes effective. This practice was no part of any scheme to restrain competition.
On the contrary, as the trial court found, there was no
consultation among the appellants, and frequently an
announcement by one refiner of an advance would result in a series of announcements by others, ultimately
leading to a decline. Often, too, the advance would be
withdrawn, because one refiner would refrain from following the announcement. Except in a few instances, a
decline announcement was followed by all.
This, we submit, is open competition at its best, and
upon the state of facts here presented, there can be no
reason whatsoever for holding such a price announcement practice unlawful.
The justification for the adoption and observance by
the refiners of ยง 2 of the Code of Ethics, relating to quantity discounts, is based upon the special facts of the
sugar refining industry, and upon the ground that in such
an industry, subject to the special conditions and surrounding circumstances, quantity discounts inevitably
amount to, and can only amount to, discriminatory and
arbitrary price concessions. Their abolition by the action
of the competitors is therefore a proper and necessary

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

561

Argument for Appellants.

means of eliminating a destructive and uneconomic
competitive method, and is justified as a method of giving effect to the Code condemnation of price discrimination between customers.
As found by the trial court, the discounts and rebates
given before the formation of the Institute were given
to some large customers but not to all; they bore no
definite relation to the quantities purchased, and they
were not openly available so that, in the language of the
court in the American Can case, 44 F. (2d) 763, cert.
den., 282 U. S. 899, "all customers could learn the amount
of purchases necessary to secure the best prices." They
were purely arbitrary in the sense that they resulted
from secret bargaining in each transaction, and in no
sense did they meet the requirement that all purchasers
"were entitled to know the amount of purchases necessary to obtain the saving." It must always be remembered in construing the provisions of the Code of Ethics
of the Institute that they were directed to practices prevailing in the sugar refining industry and not to a purely
abstract situation. The condemnation of quantity discounts was aimed at the kind of discounts which had
made their appearance in the sugar industry, and not
at an orderly system of graded. discounts corresponding
to reductions in cost, which might fall within the proviso
of ยง 2 of the Clayton Act.
As for the regulations affecting brokers and warehousemen, in view of the functions performed by the broker
and the warehouseman in the marketing of refined sugar,
it is clear that the prevention of price discriminations
and departures from the policy of open prices publicly
announced would be utterly impossible if the refiners were
unable to rely upon the observance of that policy by
the brokers and warehousemen employed by them and
their competitors.
The action taken by the refiners (1) in refusing to deal
with carriers by water who refused to announce openly

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellants.

297 U.S.

their rates and terms or who violated their openly announced rates and terms by the granting of rebates or
concessions, (2) in guarding against participation by
buyers, brokers or warehousemen in rates paid by refiners
on shipments of their own sugar by private charter, and
(3) in refusing to deal with trucking concerns affiliated
with buyers, brokers or warehousemen or trucking concerns unwilling to sign non-rebating agreements, was, it
is submitted, clearly justified under the same principles
as those justifying regulations affecting brokers and warehousemen. The measures taken were both appropriate
and necessary to prevent violation by the refiners' own
agents of the basic principle of open prices and terms
without discrimination among customers.
Transiting and diversion, for the purpose and with the
effect of defeating the refiners' openly announced freight
applications, obviously involve a fraud upon the refiner
if done without his consent; and, if consented to by the
refiner, involve quite as clearly a violation of the basic
principle of open prices and terms, without discrimination among customers.
Similarly, the recommendations made by the Institute
and the action taken by the refiners with respect to such
subjects as tolling contracts, used bags, private brands,
long-term contracts, pool cars and cargoes, and the like,
were, it is submitted, entirely proper and lawful as reasonably necessary and appropriate to give effect to the
basic principle. In connection with each of these subjects, there existed opportunities for discriminatory
practices, which, unless guarded against, would have
nullified in. large part the carrying out of the basic principle adopted by the refiners.
The activities of defendants designed to effect more
economic methods of production- and distribution did not
constitute an undue or unreasonable restraint of trade.

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

563

Argument for the United States.

That the statistical information which the Institute
failed to make generally available to the purchasing
trade was of no interest or value whatsoever to buyers,
and that buyers were in no way prejudiced by their
failure to receive such information, is clearly established
by the evidence.
The elimination of unnecessary consignment points
throughout the country constituted, in. a sense, a "restraint" of competition. The type of competition thus
restrained, however, was, as shown by a discussion of
the facts, wasteful and uneconomic-productive of no
real benefit to the purchasing trade.
-The unnecessary multiplication of consignment points
at a tremendous cost to the industry-a cost ultimately
borne by the buying public-is not, we submit, the type
of competition, beneficial to the public interest, which
the Anti-Trust Laws were designed to foster and protect.
Messrs. Walter L. Rice and Angus D. MacLean, with
whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Charles H.
Weston and Hammond E. Chaffetz were on the brief, for
the United States.
The Institute's "open price" plan is an unreasonable
restraint of trade.
In a free competitive market a seller may know what
his competitors have charged in the past, but he does
not know in advance what prices or terms they will grant
in the future. He must anticipate that they may offer
more liberal terms as well as lower prices, and he will
therefore be alert to initiate better bargains himself. Under the "open price" plan, on the other hand, a seller
may confidently wait until his competitors announce better bargains, because he knows that they will not "scoop
in" a large volume of orders by being first to initiate
attractive offers. They have in effect promised him that
they will not grant new prices or terms without advance

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

297 U.S.

notice to him. The assurance to each refiner that no
competitor would vary his prices without advance notice
was sufficient to defer declines and increase prices without justification.
Advance announcement of harsher terms or increased
prices, posted with the Institute and relayed by it to
members, constituted in effect an invitation to follow the
advance. Since the advance became effective at a future
time, the refiner first making announcement would lose
nothirg if other refiners failed to follow. Of the 48 attempted "moves" during the Institute period, 38 resulted
in price advances.
The Institute's "open price" plan entailed many col lateral restraints upon fair competition. As concluded
by the District Court, the requirement of open announcement in advance of sales "necessarily in and of itself
ended any possibility of special terms when price rqegotiations were essential." For example, long-term contracts, which had great economic value, were thus eliminated. Likewise, tolling contracts, used bag allowances,
the packing of private brands, pool shipments, private
charters, etc., although well recognized mercantile practices, were branded by the Institute as "discriminatory"
merely because they had to be negotiated privately.
Under the "open price" plan each individual buyer was
at the mercy of a combination of refiners. A buyer seeking better prices or terms had to assume the impossible
burden of tearing down the entire price structure. Expert buyers were. reduced to mere "order clerks." When
buyers become convinced that they cannot obtain even a
momentary advantage over their competitors, and that
there are no better *bargains to be had, they quit negotiating for better bargains, and this defeats true competition.
Any system which substitutes "mass bargaining" for individual bargaining unreasonably restrains trade, and
particularly where restrictive rules of a trade association

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

565

Argument for the United States.

arm the sellers for the imagined "mass" encounter with
weapons which the buyers do not have at their command.
This Court has condemned "open competition" where
buyers agree to adhere to reported prices and terms unless
more onerous ones are obtained or unless they notify
their association of any deviations. United States v.
American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371. The Court
condemned the system not because of its failure to prohibit price variations, but in spite of it. It rejected the
plan because as a practical matter it took away competitors' freedom of action "by requiring each to reveal the
intimate details of its affairs."
Where a trade association supplements the exchange of
statistical information with propaganda designed to limit
production or raise prices, its activities constitute an unreasonable restraint of trade. American Column & Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377.
Such restraints are even more unreasonable under the
Institute's program embracing 70% to 80% of the entire
sugar industry. The Institute examined refiners' and distributors' records, and held more or less formal trials of
refiners to determine Code violations.
In Maple Flooring Mfrs. Assn. v. United States, 268
U. S. 563, and Cement Mfrs. Protective Assn. v. United
States, 268 U. S. 588, this Court merely approved the
collection and wide-spread dissemination of prices in past
transactions, where competitors "were left free to base
individual initiative on full information of the essential
elements of their business."
The exclusive selling agency involved in Appalachian
Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, lacked the
power to control prices in any market, and it was not
shown that its purpose was to impair "fair competitive
Chicago Board of Trade v. United
opportunities."
States, 246 U. S. 231, merely involved the regulation of

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

297 U. S.

trading hours and bidding on an open commodity exchange, where there is complete freedom of competition.
Appellants concede that immediate publicity given to
the prices, terms and conditions in all closed transactions
would have resulted in preventing secret concessions and
unfa. discriminations. The decree does not disturb the
system of selling sugar on "moves," whereby refiners
make public announcements of price advances and permit buyers to contract for their requirements for the next
30 days at the price prevailing before the advance. The
decree enjoins concerted action in selling only upon or
adhering to prices and terms announced in advance of
sale or refraining from deviating from such announced
prices and terms.
Appellants were not primarily interested in eliminating unfair discrimination. The restraints imposed indicate that they regarded as "discriminatory" almost any
variation in the net cost of sugar to producers. Under
the guise of eliminating unfair discriminations, they
barred many legitimate competitive practices which permit buyers to effect economies or obtain advantages.
Although the District Court found that there was no
direct agreement among defendants on, basic prices or
consultation with one another after an advance had been
announced by one of them, it found agreement -and collusion with reference to specific terms of sale. The Institute rebuked members and non-members for announcing terms, such as freight absorptions, which tended to
break down the selling structure. It obtained a written
apology from one member for announcing absorption
of switching charges, and circulated the apology to members together with a statement in which the Institute
acknowledged equal responsibility "in having failed to
challenge the announcement."
Announcements were
sometimes made or prepared in Institute meetings.

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

567

Argument for the United States.

Refiners concertedly refused to deal with brokers, jobbers or warehousemen affiliated with each other. Every
person engaged directly or indirectly in more than one
of such distributive functions was compelled to elect,
practically over night, to continue in only one of such
functions. The Enforcement Committee of the Institute investigated and "disqualified" brokers or jobbers
found to be so affiliated. Honest and efficient warehousemen and brokers were blacklisted because of such affiliations, the refiners recognizing that the "innocent must
suffer with the guilty." The Institute acted as "judge,
jury and executioner all at once." The primary purpose
was not to eliminate secret discriminations and frauds,
but to prevent variations in the cost of sugar to purchasers. Customers affiliated with warehouses or brokers
were disqualified because they derived a benefit from
storage or brokerage which their competitors did not get.
The brokers' pledge required brokers to promise under
oath that they would strictly adhere to Institute rules.
Competitors may not act in corcert to compel brokers
and warehousemen, under penalty for violation, to refrain from giving rebates to purchasers.
This Court has consistently condemned concerted action to compel "third parties and strangers involuntarily
not to engage in the course of trade except on conditions
that the combination impose." Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S. 274. See also: Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S. 600; United States v.
First National Pictures, Inc., 282 U. S. 44; Paramount
Famous Lasky Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30;
Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291; Anderson v.
Ship-Owners Assn., 272 U. S. 359.
Section 3 (c) of the Institute's Code was a general
agreement not to absorb freight, and to charge all-rail
rates on all shipments except those which customers

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

297 U.S.

ordered in advance over differential routes. Several refiners took the position that the prohibition against absorbing freight arbitrarily decreased the volume of their
shipments to certain states, and operated so as to "parcel
out territory."
In 1929 all refiners announced delivered prices for
important competitive areas along the Great Lakes and
the Warrior River. The delivered prices included arbitrary freight applications. Customers were denied the
privilege of purchasing f. o. b. refinery for shipment over
waterways and other cheaper differential routes. Sugar
could have been shipped to Cleveland, Green Bay and
Chicago at 13 , 200, and 230, respectively, under the
delivered price freight applications. Concerted action in
maintaining delivered prices is indicated by the Institute's policing activities, the assurances.exacted from nonmembers to adhere to delivered prices, and the reasons
given by members for refusing to sell f. o. b. refinery.
The requirement that water carriers openly announce
their rates and terms, and the restraints upon private
charters, pool shipments, transiting, diversion, trucking,
and other transportation privileges, were designed to prevent a lowering of market prices at destination points.
Members eliminated consignment points wherever they
were able to reach an agreement. Consigned stocks were
valuable to the trade. Refiners sought to shift the cost
of maintaining consigned stock ($2,500,000 to $2,900,000
per year) to distributors.
Long-term contracts (providing for delivery more than
30 days after date of contract) were concertedly eliminated because they enabled buyers to obtain sugar at
prices lower than those prevailing on the date of delivery.
They were mutually advantageous to buyers and sellers.
The requirement that long-term contracts be announced
in advance of negotiation eliminated them, because such
contracts could not be arranged without private negotia-

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

569

Argument for the United States.

tion. The Institute exacted a promise from a large distributor to maintain refiners' prices and terms on sugar
committed to hin{ under long-term contracts signed before the Institute, for the purpose of preventing the sale
of such sugar at prices lower than those prevailing.
The decree enjoins restraints upon discounts reflecting
economies in direct or indirect costs. Quantity purchases
result in savings in such items as delivery. Even if preInstitute discounts were given because of savings in
method of taking delivery rather than because of the
quantity purchased, the injunction against restraints on
quantity discounts is proper because the Government is
entitled to "effective relief." Local 167 v. United States,
291 U. S. 293, 299.
Tolling contracts, whereby refiners accepted raw sugar
and returned a proportionate amount of refined sugar,
making a tharge for service, were restrained for the very
reason that they jeopardized the price structure. Tolling
was outlawed only to the extent necessary to preserve
uniform prices, the Institute permitting tolling for raw
sugar producers on condition that they would sell the
sugar in accordance with the Institute's Code. Members
were concerned over "discrimination" between customers
only to the extent uhat it represented lower prices.
The restraints upoD. credit terms, including the 4-payment plan, split billing, and cash discounts, illustrate the
purpose and scope of appellants' activities.
The restraints upon price guarantee, resales, and sales
of damaged sugar and frozen stocks were designed to prevent variations from announced prices and pressure to
reduce the price level. The concerted requirement that
buyers elect at the time of making contracts, witnout privilege of change, the prices and terms in cases where refiners had more than one price or different terms in different or the same territories, deprives buyers of a valuable
option. The restraint cannot be justified on the mere

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

grouind that it is in conflict with appellants' theory of
'"open prices."
Substantial savings of 5 to 1N per bag could be made
by customers re-using their own bags, without great expense to refiners. In prohibiting allowances on used
bags, experiments in the use of bulk containers, and the
packing of private brands, the Institute deliberately disregarded the public interest in effecting economies. It
is immaterial that these privileges could be enjoyed by
only a few customers or that the practices were not susceptible to open announcements.
The decree properly enjoined the gathering and dissemination of statistics on production, sales, deliveries,
stocks, and volume of sugar moving over differential
routes, without making such statistics available t6 buyers. Purchasers, who were given statistics only on total
weekly production and deliveries, were placed at an unfair disadvantage with refiners -who interchanged detailed statistics on individual production of each refiner
and stocks and deliveries by States. Refiners knew competitive conditions in each area, whereas customers knew
only the situation in the country as a whole.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Goldthwaite H. Dorr, Thurlow M. Gordon, Wilson Compton, and Rush C. Butler
filed a brief on behalf of the Cotton Textile Institute,
Inc., Window Glass Manufacturers' Assn., National Lumber.Manufacturers Assn., and Consumers Goods Industries Committee, as amici cur*ia.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought- to dissolve The Sugar Institute,
Inc., a trade association, and to restrain the sugar refining companies which composed it, and the individual
defendants, from engaging in an alleged conspiracy in re-

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

571

Opinion of the Court.

straint of interstate and foreign commerce in violation of
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. 15 U. S. C. 1. Final decree was entered, which, while it did not dissolve the Institute, permanently enjoined the defendants from engaging directly or indirectly in forty-five stated activities.
Defendants bring a direct appeal to this Court under the
Act of February 11, 1903, 15 U. S. C. 29.
The record is unusually voluminous.' The court rendered an exhaustive opinion and made detailed findings
of fact (218 in number) with conclusions of law, describing and characterizing the transactions involved. Numerous assignments of error broadly challenge its rulings,
and the case has been presented here in extended oral
arguments and elaborate briefs. We shall attempt to
deal only with the salient and controlling points of the
controversy. These involve (1) the special characteristics of the sugar industry and the practices which obtained before the organization of The Sugar Institute,
(2) the purposes for which the Institute was founded,
(3) the agreement and practices of the members of the
Institute, and (4) the application of the Anti-Trust Act
and the provisions of the decree.
First.-The sugar industry and practices prior to the
formation of The Sugar Institute.-Domestic refined
sugar, beet sugar, and foreign and insular refined sugar,
known in the trade as "off-shore" refined, constitute about
99 per cent. of the Nation's supply. The remainder, consisting of domestic cane sugar, refined particularly in
Louisiana, does not appear to be an important factor in
the national markets. The fifteen defendant companies,
members of the Institute, refine practically all the im'The court states: "The testimony is transcribed in over 10,000
typewritten pages; more than 900 exhibits covering many thousands
of pages were introduced in evidence."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

ported raw sugar processed in this country. Their product is known as "domestic refined." Prior to the organization of the Institute in 1927, they provided more than
80 per cent. of the sugar consumed in the United States,
and they have since supplied from 70 to 80 per cent.
Their proportion of the supply is even greater in the New
England and Middle Atlantic States, being more than 90
per cent., while in all but a few States their share is more
than 55 per cent. Each of the refiners is engaged extensively in interstate commerce. Their refineries are in the
vicinity of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore,
Savannah, New Orleans, Galveston and San Francisco.
The raw cane sugar which they use is imported principally
from Cuba and to some extent from the insular possessions.
Beet sugar for many years has been an important factor in the domestic market. It is produced and sold
chiefly in the middle and far West, providing in some
States over 75 per cent. of the supply, and it competes
with other sugars in a number of Southern and Middle
Atlantic States. Off-shore sugar is refined principally in
Cuba and to some extent in the insular possessions. Its
important trade areas have been the Middle, Atlantic and
Southern States; in some States it constitutes from 25
to 40 per cent. of the total supply. 'Both beet sugar and
off-shore sugar are sold at a small differential below defendants' sugar. The trial court found that there was no
agreement between defendants and the beet sugar manufacturers, or with the off-shore interests, to maintain any
differential.
The court found that the defendants' refined cane sugar
"is a thoroughly standarized commodity in physical and
chemical properties." In exceptional cases and localities,
certain of the defendants had built up a preference for
brand names "sufficient before and after the Institute was
organized to enable such brands to command a higher

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

573

Opinion of the Court.

price than the sugar of the other defendants in sales from
sugar dealers to their trade." In sales by refiners to
manufacturers of products containing sugar-about onethird of the sugar consumed-"price, not brand, was
always the vital consideration." And in the other sales,
"one refiner could not ordinarily, by virtue of preference
for his brand, obtain a higher price except insofar as another refiner might be giving a lower price by secret
concessions."
The court further found that the "basis prices," 2 quoted
by the several refiners in any particular trade area, "were
generally uniform both before and after the Institute,
because economically the defendants' sugar, save for
exceptional instances was and is a thoroughly standardized product."
It is a fundamental and earnest contention of defendants that the occasion for the formation of the Institute
was the existence of grossly unfair and uneconomical
practices in the trade, and that a proper appraisal of the
motives and transactions of defendants cannot be made
without full appreciation of the sorry condition into
which the industry had fallen.
During the years 1917 to 1919, when the industry was
under governmental control, prices were fixed and all
forms of concessions and rebates were forbidden. The
court found that, perhaps as early as 1921 and increasingly thereafter, the practice developed on the part of
some, but not all, refiners of giving secret concessions.
There were five refiners' who never indulged in that prac'The "basis price" is the price quoted at so much per pound per
one hundred pound bag of "fine granulated" or "granulated" sugar.
Contracts are closed with reference to this price but the purchaser
has the option at stipulated differentials to specify for delivery an
assortment of grades and packages.
'It appears that these five refiners accounted for 25.45 per cent.
of all sugar produced by defendants; in 1931, for 28.54 per cent.

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

tice, but the others, called "unethical" refiners, did so to
such an extent that at least 30 per cent. of all the sugar
sold by the refiners in 1927 carried secret concessions of
some kind. The need of secrecy was urgent, for as soon as
it was known that a specific concession was granted it
would be generally demanded. That concessions were
widely granted was generally known in the trade, and
while each refiner was able to find out in a general way
the approximate prices and terms of his competitors, it
was impossible to know with any degree of accuracy the
actual prices and terms granted in the innumerable
transactions. The court also found that various causes
contributed to the development of these selling methods
on the part of the unethical refiners, chief among which
was an overcapacity since the war of at least 50 per cent.
Other probable causes were the lack of statistical information as to amount of production, deliveries and stocks
on hand, leading to over-production, the uncertainties
prevailing in the market for raw sugar which made the
refined sugar industry highly speculative the fact that,
since 1922, most sugar has been sold through brokers,
and the standardization of defendants' products which
made their sales almost entirely dependent upon prices,
terms and conditions. The concessions granted were
largely, although not entirely, arbitrary. They were
given principally to large buyers, but no system was followed in that respect. Even though there may not have
been extensive resort to misrepresentations, "defendants
entertained genuine fears that purchasers were falsely
representing prices which they said they could procure
from competing sellers."
Consumption of sugar in the United States decreased
in 1927. The public "slimness campaign" of that year
had substantial effect in discouraging the use of sugar.
Certain distributors refrained from pushing sales because
they could not sell profitably, but others were aggressive

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

575

Opinion of the Court.

and sugar was generally available. While certain smaller
distributors suffered because of the advantage enjoyed
by some larger ones, that advantage was attributable in
the greatest measure to efficiency, and the larger distributors did not obtain monopolies. The court found
that there was "no substantial evidence that the situation
caused, or would cause, substantial injury to the 'ethical'
refiners as a class," although they may have been inconvenienced and probably believed that the sales methods
of their competitors were harmful. The declining profits
for the year 1927 were attributable at least in large part,
the court found, to causes other than the secret concession system, such as the "slimness campaign," over-production and dumping.
But whatever question there may be as to particulars,
the evidence and findings leave no doubt that the industry was in a demoralized state which called for remedial
measures. The court summed up the facts in the following finding:
"29. The industry was characterized by highly unfair
and otherwise uneconomic competitive conditions, arbitrary, secret rebates and concessions were extensively
granted by the majority of the companies in most of the
important market areas and the widespread knowledge
of the market conditions necessary for intelligent, fair
competition were lacking. The refiners were disturbed
economically and morally over the then prevailing conditions. At least one refiner, American,' was concerned
about the possibility of liability under the Clayton Act
because of the discriminations resulting from the various concessions."
Second.-The purposes for which the Institute was
founded.-Defendants emphasize the nature of the proceedings taken in the formation of the Institute. The
'The American Sugar Refining Company, which, in 1927, had
25.06 per cent. of all sugar produced by defendants.

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

court found that the refiners held a series of meetings,
beginning in the summer of 1927, for a discussion of conditions "with particular reference to undesirable practices
and secret concessions." In September of that year,
there were submitted to the Department of Justice a proposed certificate of incorporation and by-laws for a trade
association, together with a number of suggestions respecting trade practices. A "Code of Ethics" was likewise submitted to the Department of Justice and discussed with its officials, with the result that some changes
were made, and the Code as concertedly adopted in January, 1928, was substantially identical with that worked
out when those discussions were held. The court found
that "with the exception of two minor changes, the Code
has retained its original form." It has been supplemented from time to time by "Interpretations," that is,
rulings interpreting or amplifying the provisions of the
Code. The Department of Justice made three investigations of the -Institute in 1928, 1929 and 1930 and had
complete access to the files of the Institute. As new issues of the "Code" and "Interpretations" were printed,
copies were forwarded to the Department.
Defendants stress their dealings *.ith the Department
of Justice as evidence of their good faith and of the propriety and legality of their purposes. "The functionings
of the Institute," they insist, "were always under the eye
of the Department." The court, however, found that the
Department "was not notified of various important steps
taken by the Institute in connection with illegal restraints," nor was it notified "as to those activities
charged by the Government and denied by defendants
in this case." The Department did not conduct a comprehensive investigation of the restraints here involved
until the end of 1930.
Defendants urge that the abolition of the vicious and
discriminatory system of secret concessions, through the

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

577

Opinion of the Court.

adoption of the principle of open prices publicly announced, without discrimination, was their dominant
purpose in forming the Institute, and that other purposes
were the supplying of accurate trade statistics, the elimination of wasteful practices, the creation of a credit bureau, and the institution of an advertising campaign.
The court recognized the existence of these purposes in
its finding:
"35. Among the purposes of the defendants in organizing the Institute were: (a) the selling of sugar on open,
publicly announced prices, terms, and conditions; (b)
the gathering of trade statistics not previously available;
(c) the elimination of practices which they deemed wasteful; and (d) the institution of an advertising campaign
to increase consumption. But these purposes were for
the most part only incidental to defendants' actual dominant purposes in forming and operating under the Institute."
The "dominant purposes" were found to be as follows:
"36. I find that defendants' dominant purposes in organizing the Institute were: to create and maintain a uniform price structure, thereby eliminating and suppressing
price competition among themselves and other competitors; to maintain relatively high prices for refined, as compared with contemporary prices of raw sugar; to improve
their own financial position by limiting and suppressing
numerous contract terms and conditions; and to make as
certain as possible that no secret concessions should be
granted. In their efforts to accomplish these purposes,
defendants have ignored the interests of distributors and
consumers of sugar."
Defendants charge that the finding as to the illegality
of their dominant purposes was "wholly without foundation." They charge that the finding was built upon an
"inherent suspicion" and not upon the evidence. The
Government answers by pointing to the elaborate review

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

of the evidence in the court's opinion and findings. We
think that it is manifest that the finding as to dominant
purposes was not based upon any assumption a priori,
but was an inference of fact which the court drew from
the facts it deemed to be established with respect to the
scope of the agreement between the members of the Institute and the actual nature and effect of their concerted
action. The court found that the defendants "in most
of their activities" had "gone much further than was
reasonably necessary to accomplish their professed aims
of eliminating fraud, waste and secret, unfair or illegal
discrimination." The pith of the matter is in the following finding:
"37. At the inception of the Institute, defendants
adopted a general agreement ostensibly to abolish all
discriminations between customers but which in general
purpose and effect amounted to an agreement not to
afford different treatment to different customers, regardless of the varying circumstances of particular transactions or classes of transactions and regardless of the
varying situation of particular refiners, distributors or
customers or classes thereof. Under the guise of performing the agreement, against discriminations, defendants
limited and suppressed numerous important contract
terms and conditions in the particulars herein set forth,
chiefly for the purpose and with the effect of accomplishing the objectives described in finding 36."
We turn to the transactions from which the inference of
purpose is drawn.
Third.-The agreement and practices of the members
of the Institute.-The evidence consists of the "Code of
Ethics" and "Interpretations," oral testimony, the
minutes of the Institute, and correspondence. Eliminating charges not sustained, the findings of restraints of
trade rest upon the basic agreement of the refiners to

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

579

Opinion of the Court.

sell only upon prices and terms openly announced, and
upon certain supplementary restrictions.
1. The "basic agreement."-The "Code of Ethics" provided as follows:
"All discriminations between customers should be
abolished. To that end, sugar should be sold only upon
open, prices and terms publicly announced."
There was nothing new in the mere advance announcement of prices. The court found that prior to the Institute, "general price changes were listed on the Refiners'
Bulletin Boards, and brokers, customers and news agencies were notified, and frequently, as a courtesy, competitors would be telephoned. Except for notifying the
Institute, price changes during the post-Institute period
have been announced in this way. . . . Before the
Institute, general price changes, including general
changes in the selling bases of the 'unethical' refiners,
were disseminated and became known to the entire trade
very quickly."
These price announcements must be considered in the
light of the trade practice known as "Moves." The
great bulk of sugar, as the court found, "always was and
is purchased on what is known in the trade as 'Moves,'
although very substantial quantities are sold from time
to time apart from moves." A "move" takes place when
the refiners make public announcements that at a. fixed
time they will advance their selling price to a named
figure, either higher than the presently current selling
price or higher than a reduced price which the announcements offer before the advance. Some period of grace
was always allowed during which sugar could be bought
at the price prevailing before the advance. And in order
to obtain their sugar at the lower price, the trade, unless
it was felt that the move occurred at too high a price,
would then enter into contracts covering their needs for

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

at least the next thirty days. Defendants point out that
in actual practice the initial announcement might be
made by any one of the refiners and that the move actually takes place only if all refiners follow a similar course.
If any one fails to follow with a like announcement, the
others must withdraw their advance, since sugar is a
completely standardized commodity.
Under the system of the Institute, there was no obligation to give the Institute the first notice of a change
in price. The open announcements to the trade were to
be made in the customary manner and notified to the
Institute, which would relay the announcements. Prior
to the Institute, when an advance in price was announced, the period of grace allowed for purchasing at
the old price was uncertain. Sometimes it was very
short, a' matter of hours; sometimes sugar buyers who did
not learn of the move in time, sent their orders in too
late to buy at the old price. By an "interpretation,"
the Institute recommended that the members "announce
changes in price not later than three o'clock." In its
earlier form, this hour was to be that "of the day before
the changed price becomes effective." But these words
were deleted in 1929, and thereafter the announced price
advances could be made effective at once. In practice,
however, price advances continued to be announced to
become .effective the following day or even later. The
court found that the effect of the "Three o'clock Rule,"
in and of itself, "seems to have been advantageous to the
trade in case of a price advance in that the uncertain
period of grace has-been replaced by a definite one."
The court further found that the refiners "did not consult with one another after an advance had been announced by one of them and that the grace period was
not in fact used by them to persuade a reluctant member
to follow the example set, despite the business necessity
of withdrawing an advance unless it were followed by

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

581

Opinion of the Court.

all." The court found "no agreement among defendants
on basis prices in the sense of an agreement to adopt a
certain basis price from time to time and to maintain
it during any period. Frequently an announcement by
one refiner of an advance would result in a series of
announcements by others, ultimately leading to a decline.
Often, too, the advance would be withdrawn because one
refiner would refrain from following the announcement.
Except in a few instances, a decline announcement was
followed by all." "Data respecting price changes have
been circulated by the Institute without comment" and
there appear to have been no "price discussions" at
Institute meetings.
There had been a practice in the trade called "Repricing,"-of "making price declines retroactive to sales
made at previous higher price." That occurred usually
when a decline was announced late in the day and was
applied to all of that day's business. The court found
that during the first few months of the Institute, defendants attempted to prevent repricing, but the prohibition
proved impracticable and was abandoned. By a ruling
in November, 1928, it was provided that "the custom of
the trade permits the customer the benefit of the refiner's lowest price during the day, that is, a contract entered
into or sugar delivered in the morning may be repriced
at any lower price announced during the day." The
court in its finding on this point stated that the ruling
was evidently intended to prevent repricing beyond the
period stated and "must have had some effect in discouraging it." Defendants challenge this criticism in
view of the fact also found that refiners occasionally have
repriced beyond the stated period, a practice which defendants say "had never prevailed in the pre-Institute
period," and defendants insist that what the Code actually did was "to insure that repricing should be done
publicly, with the benefit extended to all customers alike,

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

and not done secretly for the benefit only of the
concessionaires."
The distinctive feature of the "basic agreement" was
not the advance announcement of prices, or a concert to
maintain any particular basis price for any period, but
a requirement of adherence, without deviation, to the
prices and terms publicly announced. Prior to the Institute, the list prices which many of the "unethical" refiners announced, "were merely nominal quotations and
bore no relation to the actual 'selling bases' at which
their sugar was sold. . . . The selling price was the
price at which they purported to sell; the secret concessions were from this basis." And, in the case of some
of the "unethical" refiners, changes in selling bases were
made from time to time without formal public announcement in advance. The Institute sought to prevent such
departures. As defendants put it: "Having adopted the
principle of open prices and terms, without discrimination among customers, as the means of remedying the
evils of the secret concession system, the defendants lived
up to the principle." The court found:
"40. Under the Institute, defendants agreed to sell,
and in general did sell sugar only upon open prices, terms
and conditions publicly announced in advance of sales,
and they agreed to adhere and in general did adhere without deviation, to such prices, terms and conditions until
they publicly announced changes."
It was because of the range and effect of this restriction, and the consequent deprivation of opportunity to
make special arrangements, that the court found that
the agreement and the course of action under it constituted an unreasonable restraint of trade. The court
deemed it to be reasonably certain that "any unfair
method of competition caused by the secret concession
system" could have been prevented by "immediate

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

583

Opinion of the Court.

publicity given to the prices, terms and conditions in
all closed transactions," without an agreement to sell
only on the basis "of open public announcement in advance of sales." A "purpose and effect" of that agreement, the court found, was to aid defendants in preventing and limiting "certain types of transactions in
which private negotiations are essential." Its operation
"tended in fact, as it naturally would tend, toward
maintenance of price levels relatively high as compared
with raws."
The court found that "the number of price changes
for refined as compared to raw sugar" had been relatively less since the Institute than before. This was
"too marked to be explained by the drop in raw prices."
There was "a marked increase in margin and a substantial increase in profits despite a concededly large excess
capacity." The relatively higher price level for the refined sugar, as compared with raw, was such "as to negate
the prevalence of free competition."
a'ctors "largely
responsible" for this relative stability of prices "and for
the maintenance of price levels regardless of supply and
demand, observable since the Institute," were the dissemination among the refiners f statistical information,
"while withholding it in large part from the buyers," and
the steps taken by defendants "to eliminate the possibilities of price variations to distributors or ultimate purchasers at any given time and thereby to deprive them
of the opportunity, by underselling, to disturb the price
structure." Other factors were "the friendly coperative spirit which the Institute brought to the Industry"
and the assurance to each refiner that he need meet only
the prices, terms and conditions announced by his competitors in advance of sales.
The court also took note of the fact that the Institute,
in connection with practically all of its activities, had

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

obtained a high degree of cobperation "with the Domestic Sugar Bureau," the trade association of the domestic
beet sugar manufacturers. That association had its
"code of ethics," substantially identical with that of the
Institute. There was also co6peration with the "offshore interests." But in neither case was there any agreement as to prices or price differentials.
Contending that the trial court fell into "fundamental
error," defendants assert that the Institute made no
change in &fehistoric marketing system of the sugar
industry. They say, first, that the code and its interpretations did not in terms call for price announcements
in advance of sales. As to sales on "moves," they say
that the code principle and price announcement interpretations "of course worked out in actual practice into
sales only on prices and terms announced in advance of
sales, because of the very nature and conditions of a sugar
move." As to the "small day-to-day sales between
moves," they say that while it was probably "the general
understanding" that strict observance of the principle required public announcements of alowered price or better
terms before sale, there was no evidence as to the actual
practice in that regard. They explain that the Institute
continued to operate "under the move system" because it
is "a natural growth essential to the economical conduct
of the sugar business." The cost of raw sugar makes up
about four-fifths of the cost of the refined sugar. Raw
prices fluctuate widely from day to day and substantially
control the price of refined. Wholesale and retail distributors sell on a narrow margin of five or ten cents a bag.
They cannot afford to stock large supplies because of
storage costs, dangers of deterioration and the hazardous
nature of the business. But, on the other hand, distributors have to buy considerable quantities in order to take
advantage of carload freight rates and handling costs.
The result of all these forces is the system "of buying on

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

585

Opinion of the Court.

moves every month or two." To this, both large and
small dealers have adapted themselves. By reason of
the general practice, they are all on an equal footing as
to the periodic fluctuations in price. On each move they
have laid in a supply for a month or more. Having
bought their current supplies at the same general market
leveL the distributors must "sell out their current supplies
with due regard to that level in order to avoid crippling
losses from an intervening decline." This, defendants
say, is "one of the greatest economic advantages of the
move system."
Defendants concede the correctness of the statement of
the trial court that if immediate publicity had been
given to prices and terms in all "closed transactions,"
competitive pressure would have been so great that the
refiners "would either have had to abandon the discriminatory concessions or extend them to all." They concede that it is "publicity" that prevents such concessions
and "not the sequence in time between the sale and the
publicity." But they raise the fundamental objection
that the proposal is not adaptable to the sugar industry.
They say that in an industry which "has traditionally,
and for good reason, sold its products on 'moves,' through
the mechanism of announcing price changes in advance
of sales in order that buyers may have an opportunity
to buy before the price rises, it is not helpful to suggest a
system of announcing price changes after sales."
Defendants' argument on this point is a forcible one,
but we need not follow it through in detail. For the
question, as we have seen, is not really with respect to
the practt6e of making price announcements in advance
of sales, but as to defendants' requirement of adherence
to such announcements without the deviations which
open and fair competition might require or justify. The
court below did not condemn mere open price announcements in advance of sales. The court was careful to say

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

in its opinion that it found it "unnecessary to pass upon
the legality of the use of the Institute" for relaying such
announcements, "if each refiner entirely independently
of the others voluntarily made his own announcements
without obligation to adhere thereto."
Defendants also review at length the relative prices
and profits in the periods before and during the Institute.
They insist that it is unfair to include in the comparison
the earnings for either 1927 or 1928, because each year
was abnormal, and they contend that if a truly representative comparison of results were obtained by using
the years 1925 and 1926 as the pre-Institute years, and
those for 1929 and 1930 as the post-Institute years, it
would appear that the increase in the later period of the
net earnings of the refiners was less than one-half of one
per cent. Accordingly they reach the conclusion that
their activities did not actually restrain, or tend to restrain, effective competition.
But we are not left to inferences from trends of prices
and profits. The "basic agreement" cannot be divorced
from the steps taken to make it effective, and the requirements of the Institute must be viewed in the light of the
particular opportunities which they cut off or curtailed.
The crucial question-whether, in the ostensible effort to
prevent unfair competition, the resources of fair competition have been impaired-is presented not abstractly
but in connection with various concrete restrictions to
which the decree below was addressed.
2. Supplementary restrictions.-The requirements and
practices designed to support the basic agreement, and
which the trial court condemned, relate to the employment of brokers and warehousemen, transportation, consignment points, long-term contracts, quantity discounts
and other contract terms and conditions, and to the withholding of statistical information.

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

587

Opinion of the Court.

(a) Brokers and warehousemen.-Most of defendants'
sales are negotiated through brokers who receive their
commissions from the refiners. The court found that
prior to the Institute, a broker and a warehouseman
"were frequently one," and might. also be "a merchant or
other sugar user"; that concerns which thus combined
distribution functions frequently p-.rformed a valuable
service to the industry; that defendi .nts required an election of but one of these activities an I the complete cessatioan of each of the others; that defendants made and rigorously enforced an agreement that refiners should refuse
to deal with a broker, warehouseman or customer who
acted directly or indirectly for any of them, or for any
other sugar interest, "in other than the one elected
capacity"; that each refiner submitted to the Institute
lists of its brokers and warehouses which were then circulated among the refiners, and those disqualified were
dropped from the lists; that this policy was carried out
in a harsh and arbitrary manner without regard to the
effect upon third parties; that the commissions to be
paid brokers were agreed upon, but there was no substantial evidence that the commissions were not fair, the
object being to prevent a growing competition in bidding
for brokers' services; that defendants agreed that they
would not deal with any broker or warehouseman who
did not sign a contract according to a form recommended
by the Institute; that the warehouse agreement provided
that if the warehouseman granted any concession or rebate, secret or otherwise, to any customer without granting it to all, an equal amourit should be forfeited to the
employing refiner; that the brokers' agreement prohibited
concessions and imposed an obligation to uphold the Institute's code and its interpretations. This course of
dealing, the court held, unreasonably restrained trade.
Defendants urge that the broker is the refiner's agent
to sell to customers and the warehouseman is the refiner's

OCTOBER TERM. 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

agent for storage and delivery; that these agents act as a
check on each other; that the refiners' concerted adoption
of the principle against storing in custormers' and brokers'
warehouses was essential both to prevent discrimination
among customers and to avoid impositions and frauds
upon the refiners; that if the warehouseman is himself
the purchaser of the sugar, the refiner is deprived of his
independence and disinterestedness and the purchaser has
control of the sugar with the power of withdrawing it at
will and reporting that withdrawal at his pleasure; that
similarly storage with brokers facilitated fraudulent practices, and that where the warehouseman and the broker
were the same, neither was under any supervision and the
broker-warehouseman could do practically what he
pleased with the refiner's property and business.
To a considerable degree the court recognized the force
of these contentions. The court found that a combination of distribution functions facilitated secret concessions, difficult of detection, and created opportunities for
double dealing. But, despite this, it had been common
for refiners, before the Institute, to employ brokers and
warehousemen engaged in other distribution functions,
and that such arrangements from the refiners' viewpoint
were not infrequently entirely successful; and that concerns in substantial numbers, which combined distribution functions, maintained entire good faith in their dealings with the refiners. The court concluded that there
was a definite possibility of lower prices to ultimate consumers as a result of combination of functions, because
the increased income thus made possible, even apart from
advantages obtained through secret concessions and fraudulv i practices, gave opportunity "to outsell competitors
who engage in only one occupation." The most important purpose of defendants, the court found, in compelling the separation of occupations was to aid in preserving "the uniformity of price structure," which would

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

589

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise be threatened. The court deemed it reasonably certain that defendants could have secured adequate
protection against illicit practices by means far less drastic, that is, through investigations, inspections, and publicity for which the Institute had unlimited resources.
The finding of purpose and of the adequacy of alternative measureg is sharply contested. But, while the
parties present their respective views as to the details of
evidence, there is no room for doubt as to the nature and
effect of the restrictions actually imposed through the
Institute. The findings of the court as to agreement and
practice are fully supported.
(b) Transportation.-The custom of the trade was to
quote sugar f. o. b. refinery. Since the price was usually
the same or varied but slightly, individual refiners sold
in areas enjoying lower freight rates from other refineries
by paying or absorbing part of the transportation charges.
That is, the refiner added to the refinery price the amount
of his "ruling freight basis" or "freight application,"
which was the amount the customer was to pay as distinguished from the actual cost of the transportation.
The freight situation was complicated by the existence
of differential routes, involving all-water or a combination of water and rail transportation. Traditionally in
the industry, refiners' freight applications on sugar delivered at Great Lakes ports openly broke down during
the season of open navigation to the Philadelphia lake
and rail rate, and during 1926 and 1927 the freight application on sugar sold in the Warrior River area (Alabama,
Tennessee, Kentucky and parts of Indiana) had openly
broken down to New Orleans barge rates, regardless of
the way in which the sugar actually moved. The areas
affected by these breakdowns were of vital importance,
as competition there was especially keen.
In the effort to prevent the "sale" of transportation below "cost," the Code of Ethics, paragraph 3 (c), con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

demned "The use of differential rates on consignments,
or otherwise than on direct shipments over differential
routes at customers' request." This policy was amplified by an interpretation. The trial court found that but
"slight effort was made to enforce Code 3 (c) after the
summer of 1928," that it "was abandoned at least by
the fall of 1929 and probably much earlier," and that the
code interpretation was finally rescinded in September,
1930.
The court found that the transportation problems in
the Great Lakes and Warrior River areas were finally
solved by a system of delivered prices, with denial of the
privilege of purchasing f. o. b. refinery. The court did
not find that there was an agreement in introducing the
delivered prices, but did find that defendants "agreed to
maintain and concertedly maintained the system of delivered prices" in both- the areas above mentioned; also
that through the Institute defendants "concertedly policed delivered prices and investigated alleged departures
therefrom"; and that these prices were "patently unreasonable." Defendants vigorously deny that delivered
prices were either introduced or maintained through any
concert of action. They submit that the evidence not
only does not warrant that finding, but shows affirmatively that delivered prices were introduced independently by individual refiners and resulted solely from unrestrained competition.
As the court iaid in its opinion, the controversy was
chiefly about what defendants had actually done during
the Institute period, and the facts were frequently "bitterly disputed." We need not discuss the rival contentions. The court found that defendants' "adoption of
Code 3 (c), their actions pursuant thereto, and their concerted maintenance of delivered prices constituted undue
and unreasonable restraint of trade." Defendants have
waived their assignment of error as to this finding in

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

591

Opinion of the Cour.

order to reduce the issues presented on this appeal. And
defendants have also waived their assignments of error
as to the provisions in the decree enjoining concerted
action in "Determining transportation charges or freight
applications to be collected from customers, or limiting
freight absorptions" and in "Selling only on delivered
prices or on any system of delivered prices, including
zone prices, or refusing to sell f. o. b. refinery."
Questions are presented with respect to miscellaneous
"transportation activities." They relate to defendants'
agreement to prevent transiting and diversion by customers when these would defeat freight applications; to
concerted action in obtaining an agreement from transportation companies operating on the New York State
Barge Canal that they would carry sugar only on the
basis of openly announced rates and terms from which
they would not deviate without open announcement; to
recommendations of the Institute, concertedly observed,
that none of the members should ship sugar on his own
account by private charter except when the charter was
arranged directly between refiner and carrier and refiner
was satisfied that no broker, buyer or warehouseman was
participating in the rate, and that the terms of every
such private charter should be submitted to the scrutiny
of the executive secretary of the Institute; to defendants'
concerted refusal to participate in pool shipments, with
sugar shipped on their own account, in order to aid cfstomers in making up the required minima for cargo or
carload rates; and to defendants' agreement "to use only
trucking concerns not affiliated with any buyer, broker,
or warehouse and then only under non-rebating contracts." The court found that defendants' action went
further than was necessary to prevent secret rebating
and amounted to unreasonable restraints. We see no reason for disturbing the findings on these subjects.
(c) Consignment points.-Priorto 1925, the refiners
maintained, on their respective accounts, stocks at

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297U.S.

a few strategic points from which sugar was distributed
o the surrounding areas. During the period 1925 to
1927, refiners placed stocks at numerous points solely for
the local trade. Defendants regarded this increase as an
outstanding evil and made a concerted effort to bring
about reductions. To this end the Institute obtained
the co6peration of the Domestic Sugar Bureau and other
non-members. In recommending consignment points&in
the South, ports of entry like reconsignment points were
separately classified, and Wilmington, North Carolina,
was eliminated.
Defendants insist that the expense involved in maintaining an excessive number of consignment points was
an economic waste without any substantial compensating
advantage to the consuming public, and that the effort
at reduction was a legitimate function of the Institute.
The economic questions were fully considered by the trial
court which found that the refiners' consignment service
"was valuable and beneficial to substantial elements in
the trade"; that limitation of ports of entry was more
serious than elimination of ordinary consignment points
insofar as it shut a competitor out of a particular territory; that while the cost of increased consignment points
might well be reflected in a higher general basis price,
there was no assurance that the savings through some reductions would be passed on to consumers generally;
that the result in either case was "largely speculative";
that communities eliminated as consignment points "suffered as against neighboring ones" because of the advantage accruing to the latter; and that there were also eliminated from distributing agencies one type of jobber
called the "desk jobber" who was able to do business
without any stock of his own. In summary, the court
found that defendants' "concerted conduct with respect
to elimination and reduction of consignment points, reconsignment points and ports of entry" unreasonably re-

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

593

Opinion of the Court.

strained trade. The controlling facts are established, and
the question again is one of justification.
(d) Various contract terms and conditions.-One
question relates to "long term contracts," that is, those
permitting the buyer to take delivery more than thirty
days after date. Prior to the World War, thirty day
contracts were customary for all except manufacturers
who were granted sixty days. While there was no definite practice after the war, long term contracts were
not infrequent. They were granted by California refiners to Pacific Coast canners. The court found that
long term contracts had "a real economic value to refiner
and to consumer"; that some of them tend to bring about
greater evenness of production through the year, thus
effectuating economies and enabling manufacturers
promptly to know the cost of this element of their
finished products.
Defendants contest the finding of the court that they
engaged in concerted action "in prohibiting all long term
contracts," and assert that "they never have had and
do not now have any desire to prohibit them." Hence,
they add, the court's injunction against such action "does
not disturb them." But they object to the finding that
concerted action in insisting upon open announcement
in advance of entering into such contracts was without
justification. This, as defendants say, is but a condemnation of a particular application of their basic principle
that sugar should be sold only upon open prices and
terms without discrimination. In the view of the trial
court, this application is an illustration of its point that
an obligation to adhere to such advance announcements
"would tend to prevent many entirely fair contracts."
Of similar import is the finding that defendants were not
justified in acting concertedly to determine whether and
to what extent "the rigid enforcement of the thirty day
contract" should be relaxed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

Another question which has received externded consideration is that of "quantity discounts." Prior to the Institute, there was no systematic practice in this respect.
The majority of discounts were given to the large buyer
but they were often granted to the smaller buyer as
well, and the amount of the discount "bore little relation
to the amount of the purchases or the method of taking
delivery." This, the court found, was the natural result of the "secret concession system" which had prevailed. Carrying out its policy as to discriminations, the
Institute condemned "as unbusinesslike, uneconomic and
unsound, concessions made to purchasers on the basis of
quantity purchased." The court found that this agreement and the practice under it prohibited not only "unsystematic and secret quantity discounts," but also discounts "systematically graded according to quantity."
The court examined defendants' contention that quantity
discounts would effect no economies. If, said the court,
the facts were as defendants insisted, the question would
arise whether such a concerted restraint was reasonable.
But the court considered the actual facts to be "entirely
inconsistent with defendants' position." As to direct
costs, the court found that the refiners got no discount
for quantity purchases df raws, which constitute about
80 per cent. of the cost of refined; that quantity sales
effected no appreciable direct savings in manufacturing
costs and no savings in brokerage; but that in sales to
those who could take deliveries in carload lots direct from
the refinery, there were substantial savings "in delivery,
storage, bookkeeping and other incidental expenses."
And as to indirect costs, the court found that sales which
distribute production more evenly through the year effect
substantial savings to the refiners and that the demand
for sugar is elastic, so that encouragement of large sales
through quantity discounts might reasonably be expected
to build up total production and thus effect economies.

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

595

Opinion of the Court.

Also that a quantity discount to wholesalers selling to
manufacturers as well as to manufacturers buying directly from refiners, might well result in a substantial
increase in sugar consumption.
Defendants contest these economic conclusions. But
we are not convinced that the findings are contrary to
the evidence. Moreover, the limited provision of the
decree should be regarded. In this relation, the decree
enjoins defendants from concerted action in "Preventing,
restraining or refusing to grant quantity or other discounts where such discounts reflect, effect, or result in
economies to refiners either in direct or indirect costs."
With a single exception, defendants do not ask the
court to review the findings with respect to credit
arrangements known as "the four payment plan," "split
billing" and "cash discount"; or as to "price guarantee"
and "second hand sugar or resales." They say that in
each case questions of fact alone are raised and they
disclaim having taken, or having any desire to take, any
action with respect to these subjects which is enjoined by
the decree. The exception refers to the practice of "requiring buyers to elect and specify at the time of entering contract, without privilege of change, the prices
and/or terms in cases where the refiner had more than one
price or different terms in different or the same territories." This restriction is defended as a necessary corollary
of the principle of open prices and terms without discrimination, and the question is as to the legality of the
restraint in the application of that principle.
Other questions concern practices in relation to "damaged sugar and frozen stocks," "tolling," "used bag allowances," and "private brands." The court found that the
restraints imposed in these matters were unreasonable.
They appear to be of minor importance and we think it
unnecessary to state the particular facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S

(e) Statistical information.--Some statistical information collected by the Institute was supplied only to its
members; some was supplied as well to representatives
of offshore refiners. The data disseminated by the Institute to the purchasing trade consisted of weekly statistics
as to the total melt (production) and total deliveries,
and monthly statistics of total deliveries, of all sugar,
divided so as to show the amount of domestic cane, imported cane, and beet sugar delivered during the period.
These statistics were widely distributed through news
agencies, banks and brokers. The total refined stocks
on hand could be computed by subtracting from the total
melt of each week the total deliveries. During recent
years when refined stocks were greatly increasing, defendants continued to supply to the trade weekly statistics on
melt and deliveries from which the trade could readily
calculate the increase. Data as to the capacity of the several refiners were available to the public in substantially
similar form to that obtained by the Institute. It also
appeared that in May, 1931, after the present suit was
begun, statistics were released to the trade showing the
total consumption of cane, beet, foreign and insular refined sugar by States, for the years 1928, 1929 and 1930,
together with figures showing the per capita consumption
of each State during the same years.
The trial court found that none of the other statistics
supplied to members or offshore refiners were available
except' through the Institute and none were supplied or
available to the trade. What the court considered to
be "vital data" relating to production and deliveries of
individual refiners, to deliveries by States, to deliveries
by States by all the important differential routes, to consigned and in-transit stocks for the several States, "which
would have illuminated the situation in-the several trade
areas where the competitive set-ups differed widely,"
were withheld from purchasers. The court concluded

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

597

Opinion of the Court.

that, by collecting and circulating only among themselves
that information, defendants obtained an unfair advantage with respect to purchasers and effected an unreasonable restraint..
The court took the view that the statistics relating to
total production, total deliveries, and calculable stocks,
which defendants did make available, could have had
only limited significance for the individual purchaser and
were even likely to mislead him. Such information reflected only the general situation for the country as a
whole and for all refiners. Defendants challenge this criticism and emphasize the value of the information they
gave. And with respect to the statistics not disseminated, they say that it did not appear how buyers were
prejudiced and that the sole reason that the information
was not published was "because the refiners had no reason to believe that the buyers wanted it." We cannot
say, however, that the finding of the trial court, in connection with its exhaustive examination of conditions in
the trade, is without adequate support. We shall presently consider the criticism from a legal standpoint of
the breadth of the provision in the decree relating to the
duty of dissemination.
Fourth.-The application of the Anti-Trust Act and
the provisions of the decree.-The restrictions imposed
by the Sherman Act are not mechanical or artificial.
We have repeatedly said that they set up the essential
standard of reasonableness. Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American Tobacco
Co., 221 U. S. 106. They are aimed at contracts and combinations which "by reason of intent or the inherent nature of the contemplated acts, prejudice the public interests by unduly restraining competition or unduly obstructing the course of trade." Nash v. United States, 229
U. S. 373, 376; United States v. Linseed Oil Co., 262
U. S. 371, 388, 389. Designed to frustrate unreasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

restraints, they do not prevent the adoption of reasonable means to protect interstate commerce from destructive or injurious practices and to promote competition
upon a sound basis. Voluntary action to end abuses an&
to foster fair competitive opportunities in the public interest may be more effective than legal processes. And co5perative endeavor may appropriately have- wider objectives than merely the removal of evils which are infractions
of positive law. Nor does the fact that the correction of
abuses may tend to stabilize a business, or to produce
fairer price levels, require that abuses should go uncorrected or that an effort to correct them should for that
reason alone be stamped as an unreasonable restraint of
trade. Accordingly we have held that a co6perative enterprise otherwise free from objection, which carries with
it no monopolistic menace, is not to be condemned as an
undue restraint merely because it may effect a change
in market conditions where the change would be in mitigation of recognized evils and would not impair, but
rather foster, fair competitive opportunities. Appalachian Coals v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 373, 374.
Further, the dissemination of information is normally
an aid to commerce. As free competition means a free
and open market among both buyers and sellers, competition does not become less free merely because of the
distribution of knowledge of the essential factors entering
into commercial transactions. The natural effect of the
acquisition of the wider and more scientific knowledge
of business conditions on the minds of those engaged in
commerce, and the consequent stabilizing of production
and price, cannot be said to be an unreasonable restraint
or in any respect unlawful. Maple Flooring Assn. v.
United States,*268 ,U. S. 563, 582, 583. In that case, we
decided that trade associations which openly and fairly
gather and disseminate information as to the cost of their

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

599

Opinion of the Court.

product, the volume of production, the actual price which
the product has brought in past transactions, stocks of
merchandise on hand, approximate costs of transportation, without reaching or attempting to reach an agreement or concerted action with respect to prices or production or restraining competition, do not fall under the
interdiction of the Act. Id., p. 586. See, also, Cement
Manufacturers Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588,
604, 606.
The freedom of concerted action to improve conditions has an obvious limitation. The end does not justify
illegal means. The endeavor to put a stop to illicit practices must not itself become illicit. As the statute draws
the line at unreasonable restraints, a coperative endeavor which transgresses that line cannot justify itself by
pointing to evils afflicting the industry or to a laudable
purpose to remove them. The decisions on which defendants rely emphasize this limitation. In Chicago
Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231, the
Court found the assailed rule to be a reasonable regulation in a limited field. In the case of Appalachian Coals,
supra, p. 375, the Court found that abundant competitive opportunities would exist in all markets where defendants' coal was sold, and that nothing had been shown
to warrant the conclusion that defendants' plan would
have an injurious effect upon competition in those markets. In Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
163, relating to contracts concerning patents for cracking processes in producing gasoline, an examination of
the transactions involved led to the conclusion "that no
monopoly of any kind or restraint of interstate commerce" had been effected "either by means of the contracts or in some other way." Id., p. 179. And while
the collection and dissemination of trade statistics are
in themselves permissible and may be a useful adjunct of

600

OCTOBER TERM- 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

fair commerce, a combination to gather and supply information as a part of a plan to impose unwarrantable
restrictions, as, for example, to curtail production and
raise prices, has been condemned. American Column Co.
v. United States, 257 U. S. 377, 411, 412; United States
v. Linseed Oil Co., supra; Maple FlooringAssn. v. United
States, supra, pp. 584, 585.
We have said that the Sherman Act, as a charter of
freedom, has a generality and adaptability comparable to
that found to be desirable in constitutional provisions.
It does Dot go into detailed definitions. Thus in applying
its broad prohibitions, each case demands a close scrutiny
of its own facts. Questions of reasonableness are necessarily questions of relation and degree. In the instant
case, a fact of outstanding importance is the relative Position of defendants in the sugar industry. We have noted
that the fifteen refiners, represented in the Institute, refine
practically all the imported raw sugar processed in this
country. They supply-from 70 to 80 per cent. of the sugar
consumed. Their refineries are in the East, South, and
West, and their agreements and concerted action have a
direct effect upon the entire sugar trade. While their product competes with beet sugar and "offshore" sugar, the
maintenance of fair competition between the defendants
themselves in the sale of domestic refined sugar is manifestly of serious public concern. Another outstanding fact
is that defendants' product is a thoroughly standardized
commodity. In their competition, price, rather than
brand, is generally the vital consideration. The question
of unreasonable restraint of competition thus relates in
the main to competition in prices, terms and conditions
of sales. The fact that, because sugar is a standardized
commodity, there is a strong tendency to uniformity of
price, makes it the more important that such opportunities as may exist for fair competition should not be impaired.

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

601

Opinion of the Court.

Defendants point to the abuses which existed before
they formed the Institute, and to their remedial efforts.
But the controversy that emerges is not as to the abuses
which admittedly existed, but whether defendants' agreement and requirements went too far and imposed unreasonable restraints. After a hearing of extraordinary
length, in which no pertinent fact was permitted to escape
consideration, the trial court subjected the evidence to a
thorough and acute analysis which has left but slight
room for debate over matters of fact. Our examination
of the record discloses no reason for overruling the court's
findings in any matter essential to our decision.
In determining the relief to be afforded, appropriate
regard should be had to the special and historic practice
of the sugar industry. The restraints, found to be unreasonable, were the offspring of the basic agreement. The
vice in that agreement was not in the mere open announcement of prices and terms in accordance with the
custom of the trade. That practice which had grown out
of the special character of the industry did not restrain
competition. The trial court did not hold that practice
to be illegal and we see no reason for condemning it.
The unreasonable restraints which defendants imposed
lay not in advance announcements, but in the steps
taken to secure adherence, without deviation, to prices
and terms thus announced. It was that concerted undertaking which cut off opportunities for variation in the
course of competition however fair and appropriate they
might be. But, in ending that restraint, the beneficial
and curative agency of publicity should not be unnecessarily hampered. The trial court left defendants free to
provide for immediate publicity as to prices and terms in
all closed transactions. We think that a limitation to
that sort of publicity fails to take proper account of the
practice of the trade in selling on "moves," as already de-

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297U.S.

scribed, a practice in accordance with which the court
found that "the great bulk of sugar always was and is
purchased." That custom involves advance announcements, and it does not appear that arrangements merely
to circulate or relay such announcements threaten competitive opportunities. On the other hand, such provision for publicity may be helpful in promoting fair
competition. If the requirement that there must be adherence to prices and terms openly announced in advance
is abrogated and the restraints which followed that requirement are removed, the just interests of competition
will be safeguarded and the trade will still be left with
whatever advantage may be incidental tQ its established
practice.
The decree.-The court below did not dissolve the
Iistitute. The practices which had been found to constitute unreasonable restraints were comprehensively
enjoined. The injunction restrains defendants "individually and collectively, in connection with the sale, marketing, shipment, transportation, storage, distribution or
delivery of refined sugar," from engaging with one another or with any competitor through any "program" in
any of the activities separately described. The decree defines "program" as "any agreement, understanding or
concerted action, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any rule, policy or code provision or interpretation, concertedly adopted or maintained."
Then follow.forty-five specifications of prohibited action. As to seventeen of these paragraphs, defendants
have withdrawn their assignments of error.
Paragraphs one and two. of the specifications enjoin
the carrying out of the open price plan so far as it seeks
to compel uniform terms, regardless of circumstances, and

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

603

Opinion of the Court.

an adherence to prices, terms, etc. announced in advance.
These paragraphs cover any agreement or concerted action in
"1. Effectuating any general plan to give the same
terms, conditions, or freight applications to customers,
regardless of the varying circumstances of particular
transactions or classes of transactions or regardless of the
varying situation of particular refiners, distributors or
customers or classes thereof;
"2. Selling only upon or adhering to prices, terms, conditions or freight applications announced, reported or
relayed in advance of sale or refraining from deviating
therefrom."
In view of those provisions, and of the other forty specified restrictions, we think that paragraphs three, four
and five with respect to the reporting or relaying of information as to current or future prices should be eliminated. These paragraphs are as follows:
"3. Effectuating any system for or systematically reporting to or among one another or competitors or to a
common agency, information as to current or future
prices, terms, conditions, or freight applications, or lists
or schedules of the same;
"4. Relaying by or through The Sugar Institute, Inc.,
or any other common agency, information as to current
or future prices, terms, conditions, or freight applications
or any list or schedule of the same;
"5. Giving any prior notice of any change or contemplated change in prices, terms, conditions, or freight applications, or relaying, reporting or announcing any such
change in advance thereof."
Such reporting or relaying, as we have said, permits
voluntary price announcements by individual refiners, in
accordance with trade usage, to be circulated, and sub-

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

ject to the restrictions imposed by the decree does not
appear to involve any unreasonable restraint of competition.
Paragraph seven relates to the collection and dissemination of statistical information, as follows:
"7. Effectuating any system of gathering and/or disseminating statistical information regarding melt, sales,
deliveries, stocks on hand, stocks on consignment, stocks
in transit, volume of sugar moved by differential or other
particular routes or types of routes, new business or any
other statistical information of a similar character, wherever and to the extent that said information is not made,
or is not readily, fully and fairly available to the purchasing and distributing trade."
This provision was based upon the finding that "Perfect competition and defendants' professed policy of fostering such competition require that the purchasing trade
as well as the sellers have the full, detailed information
which defendants withheld." That ruling has appropriate reference to the statistical data which are specified
in paragraph seven and to the withholding of which we
have referred. .In those data the purchasing and distributing trade have a legitimate interest. But it does not
follow that the purchasing and distributing trade have
such an interest in every detail of information which may
be received by the Institute. Information may be received in relation to the affairs of refiners which may
rightly be treated as having a confidential character and
in which distributors and purchasers have no proper interest. To require, under the penalties of disobedience
of the injunction, the dissemination of everything that
the Institute may learn might well prejudice rather than
serve the ifiterests of fair .competition and obstruct the
useful and entirely lawful activities of the refiners.
In this view we think that the clause in paragraph
seven "or any other statistical information of a similar

SUGAR INSTITUTE v. UNITED STATES.
553

605

Opinion of the Court.

character" should be eliminated. The preceding specifications as to melt, sales, deliveries, stocks on hand, on
consignment, or in transit, and as to transportation and
new bupiness, appear to be adequate. The words "of a
similar character" have no clearly defined meaning and
would place the defendants under an equivocal restriction
which may do more harm than good. With the removal
of that clause and the placing of the word "and" before
the words "new business," paragraph seven is approved.
Following the provisions for injunction, the decree properly provides that jurisdiction is retained for the purpose of "enforcing, enlarging or modifying" its terms. It
is further provided that the injunction is without prejudice to application by any party for modification in order
to permit the adoption of any "program" that may be
permissible under "the National Industrial Recovery
Act" of June 16, 1933, or the "Emergency Farm Relief
Act" of May 12, 1933, or "any other present or future
statutes of the United States." This subdivision of the
decree should be modified so as to refer simply to "any
applicable Act of Congress."
The decree is modified in the particulars above stated
and, as thus modified, is affirmed.
Modified and affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE STONE took
no part in the consideration and decision of this cause.

