OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

297 U.S

RICKERT RICE MILLS, INC. v. FONTENOT, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 577. Argued December 16, 17, 1935.--Decided January 13, 1936.
1. The infirmities of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, 1933, which
were the basis of decision in United States v. Butler, .ante, p. 1,
holding it unconstitutional, were not cured by the Amendatory Act
of August 24, 1935. The so-called tax exacted of processors still
'lacks the quality of a true tax, and remains a means for effectuating the regulation of agricultural production,--a matter not
within the powers of Congress. P. 112.
2. The Court has no occasion to discuss or decide in this case the
question whether § 21 (d) of the Amended Act affords an adequate

remedy at law- for the recovery of money unconstitutionally exacted
of a processor. P. 112.
3. In suits by processors to restrain a collector from assessing and
collecting "processing taxes" pursuant to the Agricultural Adjustment Act, 1933, as amended by the Act of August 24, 1935, this
Court, in granting writs of certiorari, restrained the collection upon
the condition that the petitioners pay the amcunts of the accruing
taxes to a depositary, to be withdrawn only upon the further order
of this Court. The exaction of the statute having been found unconstitutioial, held that the impounded funds should be returned
to petitioners without regard to the adequacy of the remedy under
§ 21 (d) of the Amended Act for recovery of taxes collected, since
the petitioners have not paid those funds as taxes to the collector
and cannot now be required to do so, nor can collection be enforced
by distraint. P. 112.
Decreesof the District Court vacated.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 569, to the Circuit Court of Appeals after denial by that court of applications for injunc-

Together with No. 578, Dore v. Fontenot; No. 579, United Rice
Milling Products Co. v. Fontenot; No. 580, Baton Rouge Rice Mill,
Inc. v. Fontenot; No. 581, Simon v. Fontenot; No. 585, Levy Rice
Milling Co. v. Pontenot; No. 586, Farmers Rice Milling Co. v. Fontenot; and No. 587, Noble-Trotter Rice Milling Co: v. Fontenot-all
on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit.
*

RICKERT RICE MILLS v. FONTENOT.
110

111

Opinion of the Court.

tions, pending appeal, in suits brought by processors of
rice against the respondent collector to enjoin assessment
and collection of processing taxes under the Agricultural
Adjustment Act as amended. The District Court had
dismissed the bills. The decrees of this Court provide
for return of moneys impounded under its orders; vacate
the decrees of the District Court, and remand the cases
to that court for entry of decrees of injunction.
Messrs. John P. Bullington and Homer L. Bruce, with
whom Messrs. Ralph J. Schwarz, Morris B. Redmann,
and C. A. McCoy were on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, with whom Attorney General Cummings, Solicitor General Reed,
Messrs. Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, J. Paul Jackson,
Lucius A. Buck, Mastin G. White, Prew Savoy, and Miss
Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows: Messrs. Nathan L. Miller, John W. Davis, and
William R. Perkins, on behalf of Hygrade Food Products
Corp. et al.; Messrs. Charles B. Rugg, Frank J. Morley,
Thomas Nelson Perkins, and Warren F. Farr, on behalf
of General Mills, Inc., et al.; Mr. John E. Hughes, on
behalf of American Nut Co., Inc., et al.; and Messrs.
James S. Y. Ivins, Kingman Brewster, Percy W. Phillips,
0. R. Folsom-Jones, Richard B. Barker, and John Ward
Cutler--all in support of the petitioners.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is one of eight companion cases.1 They were consolidated for hearing by the District Court. It will be
sufficient briefly to state the facts in No. 577:
1 The others are: 578, Dore v. Fontenot; 579, United Rice Milling
Products Co., Inc. v. Fontenot; 580, Baton Rouge Rice Mill, Inc. v.
Fontenot; 581, Simon v. Fontenot; 585, Levy Rice Milling Co., Inc.
v. Fontenot; 586, Farmers Rice Milling Co., Inc. v. Fontenot, and
587, Noble-Troter Rice Milling Co., Inc. v, Fontenot.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

The petitioner, a processor of rice, filed its bill in the
District Court for Eastern Louisiana, to restrain the respondent from assessing or collecting taxes levied for the
month of September, 1935, and subsequent months, pursuant to the Agricultural Adjustment Act, 1933,2 as
amended by the Act of August 24, 1935.' The bill charges
the exaction is unconstitutional and alleges the respondent threatens collection by distraint, which will cause irreparable injury, as the petitioner has no adequate remedy
at law to recover what may be collected. A preliminary
injunction was sought. The respondent filed a motion to
dismiss, citing Revised Statutes 3224 and § 21 (a) of the
amended Agricultural Adjustment Act as prohibiting restraint of collection, and also asserting that the petitioner
had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law. The
court refused an interlocutory injunction and entered a
decree dismissing the bill. Appeal was perfected to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The District Judge refused to
grant an injunction pending the appeal. Application to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for such an injunction was
denied upon the view that the petitioner had an adequate
remedy at law and the statute deprived the court of jurisdiction to restrain collection.
In praying a writ of certiorari the petitioner asserted
that by reason of the provisions of § 21 (d) it would be
impossible to recover taxes collected, even though the
act were unconstitutional, since the section forbids recovery except upon a showing of facts not susceptible of
proof. This court granted the writ and restrained- collection of the tax upon condition that the petitioner should
pay the amount of the accruing taxes to a depository, to
the joint credit of petitioner and respondent, such funds
to be withdrawn only upon the further order of the court.
2 C. 25, 48 Stat. 31.

8 0. %1, 49 Stat. 750.

RICKERT RICE MILLS v. FONTENOT.
110

113

Opinion of the Court.

The cause was advanced for hearing and has been fully
argued on the questions of the constitutionality of the
exaction and the inadequacy of the remedy for recovery
of taxes paid.
The changes made by the amendatory act of August
24, 1935, do not cure the infirmities of the original act
which were the basis of decision in United States V. Butler, ante, p. 1. The exaction still lacks the quality of a
true tax. It remains a means for effectuating the regulation of agricultural production, a matter not within the
powers of Congress.
We have no occasion to discuss or decide whether § 21
(d) affords an adequate remedy at law. As yet the
petitioner has not paid the taxes to the respondent, and,
in view of the decision in the Butler case, hereafter cannot be required so to do. If the respondent should now
attempt to collect the tax by distraint he would be a
trespasser. The decree of the District Court will be vacated, an appropriate order entered directing the repayment to the petitioner of the funds impounded pendente
lite, and the cause remanded to the District Court for the
entry of a decree enjoining collection of the assailed exaction. A similar disposition will be made of the companion cases.
Decree vacated.

