WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
543

Decree.

amortized annually throughout the term of the bonds delivered in exchange for those retired.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
No. 1, original. Argued March 2, 3, 1936.-Decided March 16, 1936.
Final decree confirming report of special master and establishing
boundary between Wisconsin and Michigan.

This suit was brought to correct an earlier decree, 272
U. S. 398, entered after the decision reported 27G U. S.
295. The opinion in the present case, explaining the corrections to be made and directing a second reference to
the Special Master, Frederick F. Faville, Eso., of Des
Moines, Iowa, is in 295 U. S. 455. The decree printed
below is the old decree as now amended.
Mr. Adolph J. Bieberstein, with whom Mr. James E.
Finnegan, Attorney General of Wisconsin, Mr. Joseph G.
Hirschberg, Deputy Attorney General, and Mr. J. E.
Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for plaintiff.
Mr. Edward A. Bilitzke, with whom Mr. David H.
Crowley, Attorney General of Michigan, and Mr. James
F. Shepherd, Deputy Attorney General, were on the brief,
for defendant.
DECREE.

Michigan brought suit in this court against Wisconsin
to have ascertained and established a part of the boundary
between them. March 1, 1926, we announced our decision. 270 U. S. 295. To carry it into effect, the States
acting through their counsel agreed upon and submitted a
form of decree. November 22, 1926, the court relying

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Decree.

297 U.S.

upon the agreement and consent of the parties entered
the decree proposed. 272 U. S. 398.
November 7, 1932, Wisconsin brought this suit against
Michigan, alleging that as a result of mistakes of the
parties the decree of November 22, 1926, did not carry
our decision into effect as to the tracts called "Grassy
Island" and "Sugar Island" on the north bank and a
short distance from the mouth of the Menominee River
and as to the Green bay section of the boundary. Issue
was joined, and a special master took evidence, heard
counsel for the States, made findings of fact, stated his
conclusions of law and recommended a form of decree.
The parties filed exceptions to his report and, after hearing counsel, the court May 20, 1935, decided (295 U. S.
455, 462):
"The decree to be entered in this case will establish the
boundary through and along, or near, the middle of the
waters of Green bay that are here involved. That line
commences at a point midway between the piers at the
harbor entrance of the Menominee River; thence east by
south seven and one-eighth miles; thence approximately
north by east one-eighth east, about eight and seveneighths miles; thence to and along a line in or near
the middle of the bay to a point west of the Rock Island
passage; thence easterly by courses and distances to be
designated through that passage to the boundary in the
middle of Lake Michigan. The decree will appropriately
define the tracts called 'Grassy -Island' and 'Sugar Island'
and declare them to belong to Michigan."
And the court ordered (p. 463):
"The case is referred to the special master, and he is
directed to prepare and submit to the court a form of decree which will give effect to this decision. Inasmuch as
the preparation of the decree may involve the ascertainment of physical facts and the formulation of technical
descriptions, the master is authorized to hear counsel, take
evidence and procure such "assistance, if any, as may be

WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
547

Decree.

necessary to enable him conveniently and promptly to
discharge the duties here imposed upon him. He may
call upon counsel to propose forms of decree. He is directed to give them opportunity to submit objections to
the form prepared by him and to include the objections,
if any, in his report."
The master took evidence, viewed the locus, heard
counsel and in accordance with the court's directions filed
his report. It includes a form of decree. Wisconsin objects to the proposed decree in respect of the part of the
boundary in Green bay, Rock Island passage and Lake
Michigan not defined by our decision of May 20, 1935,
and submits for consideration alternative forms of decree.
Michigan urges adoption of that proposed by the master.
After hearing counsel for the respective States, the
court does hereby order, adjudge and decree:
1. Wisconsin's objections are overruled. The definitions of the boundary recommended by the master are
approved and adopted.
2. The decree of this court, entered November 22, 1926,
in the suit brought by Michigan against Wisconsin, is
modified by striking therefrom the provisions that purport to definie the parts of the boundary in the Menominee River downstream from the concrete bridge on United
States Highway No. 41 between the cities of Menominee,
Michigan, and Marinette, Wisconsin, and in the waters
of Green bay, the Rock Island passage and Lake Michigan and by inserting in lieu of the parts of the decree so
stricken out, definitions of the boundary recommended by
the master.
3. The decree in Michigan v. Wisconsin, as modified by
this decree, defines and establishes the boundary between
these States. As modified, it is as follows:
It is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
That the boundary between the States of Michigan and
Wisconsin along the- following course be and it is hereby
fixed and finally established as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Decree.

297 U. S.

From Lake Superior through the middle of the main
channel of the Montreal River, to the headwaters thereof,
as established in the survey of Captain Cram at the
junction of the Pine River and Balsam Creek (also known
as Lehman's Creek), thence along the line of the survey
of William A. Burt of 1847, to the center of the channel
between Middle and South Islands in the Lake of the
Desert, thence continuing along the line of said survey
to the shore of Lake Brul6, thence along the southerly
shore of Lake Brul. to the center of the main channel of
the River Brul6, thence down the center of the :ain
channel of the rivers Brul6 and Menominee, to the intersection of the longitudinal center line of the concrete
bridge on United States Highway No. 41 between the
cities of Menominee, Michigan, and Marinette, Wisconsin, with the center line of the stream crossing of said
bridge, which said point of intersection bears north fortytwo degrees and thirty minutes (42'30') east, a distance
of four hundred twenty-four and five-tenths (424.5) feet
from the southerly end of said stream crossing of said
bridge, and a distance of nine hundred and ninety-nine
and ninety-three hundredths (999.93) feet upon the same
course from the center line of Eggner street as now laid
out and existing in the city of Marinette, Wisconsin, and
which said point also bears south forty-two degrees and
thirty minutes (42'30) west, two thousand three hundred fifty-eight and one-tenth (2,358.1) feet from the
south line of Ogden avenue as now laid out and existing
in the city of Menominee, Michigan, all these courses
being measured along the center line of said bridge and
its approaches, thence south seventy-four degrees and
twenty-eight minutes (74028') east, one thousand one
hundred twenty-seven and seven-tenths (1,127.7) feet to
a point from which a monument set upon a nearby island
consisting of an iron pin set in a concrete block of ap-

WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
547

Decree.

proximately one-half ton bears south eighteen degrees
and fifty-five minutes (18°55 ") west, a distance of
seventy-one (71) feet, thence south sixty-six degrees and
fifty-four minutej (66054 ' ) east, one thousand seven hundred thirty-nine and three-tenths (1,739.3) feet to a
point from which a monument set in a nearby island
consisting of an iron pin set in a concrete block of approximately one-half ton bears south nineteen degrees
and thirty minutes (19'30 ' ) west, one hundred sixty and
two-tenths (160.2) feet, thence along the center line of
the dredged channel of the Menominee River through
the center of the movable span of the drawbridge between the cities of Menominee and Marinette, and continuing along the center of said dredged channel of said
river to a point midway between the outer ends of the
Menominee Harbor piers. Provided, that the section of
the boundary in the Brul6 and Menominee rivers shall
follow the main channel thereof, except that where islands occur in the Brul6 River or in the Menominee
River, down to and inclusive of the Quinnesec Falls, extending to the line between sections 5 and 6, Township
38 north, of Range 20 east, of the Wisconsin Public Survey, extended across said river, the line shall pass through
the channel nearest the Wisconsin bank, so as to throw al
such islands into Michigan; and where islands occur in
the Menominee River below the Quinnesec Falls, and upstream from the above-mentioned concrete bridge on
United States Highway No. 41, the line shall pass through
the channel nearest the Michigan bank, so as to throw
all such islands into Wisconsin.
From a point midway between the outer ends of the
Menominee Harbor piers, thence upon a true course of
which the azimuth is one hundred one degrees and fifteen
minutes (101°15 ' ) for eleven thousand four hundred
seventy (11,470) meters, the same being approximately
east by south for seven and one-eighth (71) miles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Decree.

297 U.S.

Thence upon a true course of which the azimuth. is
eleven degrees and forty-five minutes (11°45 ' ) for fourteen thousand two hundred fifty (14,250) meters, the
same being approximately north by east for eight and
seven-eighths (87/8) miles.
Thence upon a true course of which the azimuth is
fifty-eight degrees and fifty minutes (58'50') for eight
thousand two hundred ninety (8,290) meters, the same
being approximately northeast by east one-fourth east for
five and one-eighth (5/) miles.
Thence upon a true course of which the azimuth is
forty-two degrees and eighteen minutes (42°18 " ) for sixteen thousand seven hundred eighty (16,780) meters, the
same being approximately northeast one-fourth north for
ten and one-half (101/2) miles.
Thence upon a true course of which the azimuth is
twenty-eight degrees and ten minutes (28°10') for eleven
thousand five hundred eighty (11,580) meters, the same
being approximately north northeast one-half east for
seven and one-fourth (7 4 ) miles.
Thence upon a true course of which the azimuth is
ninety degrees (90 ° ) for twenty-seven thousand one
hundred seventy (27,170) meters, the same being approximately east for sixteen and seven-eighths (16s)
miles.
Thence upon a true course of which the azimuth is one
hundred twenty degrees (1200) for forty-five thousand
six hundred (45,600) meters, the same being approximately southeast by east three-eighths east for twentyeight and three-eighths (283/8) miles to the center of
Lake Michigan.
In the. descriptions contained in this decree, all azimuths are computed from 0 as true north, clockwise.
The costs of this action, including the fees and expenses
incurred by the special master, shall be divided equally
between the parties.

