OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U. S.

BRONX BRASS FOUNDRY, INC. v. IRVING TRUST
CO., TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 232. Argued December 13, 1935.-Decided February 10, 1936.
1. The right of a plaintiff in equity to dismiss his bill when the
defendant cannot have affirmative relief on the pleadings and can
suffer no prejudice save for the vexation and expense of a second
suit, is subject to modification by rule of court. P. 231.
2. Under a rule in the Southern District of New York, the bankruptcy court may refuse to permit the withdrawal of a creditor's
claim after issue joined upon.it. P. 232.
3. Palmer Clay Products Co. v. Brown, Trustee, ante, p. 227, followed
on a construction of ยง 60 (a), (b), Bankruptcy Act, concerning
preferences. P. 232.
76 F. (2d) 935, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 296 U. S. 565, to review the affirmance of

an order denying a claim in bankruptcy.
Mr. Maxwell H. Goldstein for petitioner.
Mr. Charles A. Houston for respondent.

By leave of Court, Mr. John A. McManus filed a.brief
on behalf of the Viscose Co., as amicus curiae, contending
there had been no voidable preference.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered
Court.

the

opinion of the

J. R. Palmenberg Sons, Inc., was. adjudged bankrupt
in the federal court for southern New York in August,

1933.

In September, Bronx Brass Foundry, Inc., filed its

proof of claim. In January, 1934, the Irving Trust Company, trustee in bankruptcy, moved to expunge the claim
on the ground that the creditor had received within the

four months preceding the bankruptcy, payments on ac-

BRONX BRASS CO. v. IRVING TRUST CO. 231
230

Opinion of the Court.

count aggregating $1,000 which were unlawful preferences. The creditor denied the allegations of preference.
On the issue thus raised, several hearings were had before the referee and the evidence introduced clearly indicated that the payments would, upon bankruptcy, effect
a preference over other creditors of the same class, and
that the claimant had received them having reasonable
cause to believe the debtor insolvent. But it left uncertain whether the amount received was more than its pro
rata share would have been, if the then existing assets
had been ratably distributed among all the then creditors.
Before the hearing closed, and in view of an adverse ruling on"the admission of evidence, the creditor filed a withdrawal of its claim and left the hearing.
The trustee objected to allowance of the withdrawal,
and introduced further evidence, insisting that it was entitled to an adjudication of the question whether the payments made were unlawful preferences. The referee, at
the close of the hearing, ordered that the claim be expunged, unless the creditor within 20 days repay the preference to the trustee, with interest from the date of
service of the motion to expunge. He said;"When a creditor files a claim against the bankrupt
estate he elects a forum which may hear and determine
whether a preference to him was made. Although judgment of recoveiy may not be granted, the finding thereon,
subject to review, is conclusive as between the parties. It
is not intended that a party shall have two trials of the
same issue or be permitted to present the same issue to
different tribunals for determination. When issue is
joined upon the question whether a voidable preference
has been received, the creditor may not withdraw of his
own motion and thereby avoid such determination as the
proof warrants."
The District Court approved the order of the referee.
Its judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

297 U.S.

peals, which held that the creditor had received a preference although the proof did not show that at the times
of the payments the assets of the debtor were insufficient
to pay proportional amounts to all the other creditors, 76
F. (2d) 935. We granted certiorari, because the ruling
on the right of the creditor to withdraw its claim appeared to conflict with Scholl Mfg. Co. v. Rodgers, 51, F.
(2d) 971, decided by the Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit; and because the ruling on the question of preference conflicted with W. S. Peck & Co. v. Whitmer, 231
Fed. 893, also decided by that court.
First. The referee was justified in refusing to permit
the creditor to withdraw its claim. The Circuit Court of
Appeals recognized that ordinarily a plaintiff in equity
has, as stated in Ex parteSkinner & Eddy Corp., 265 U. S.
86, 93, the absolute right to dismiss his bill. Its approval
of the referee's refusal to permit the creditor to withdraw
rested on the ground that the District Court had adopted
a rule which authorized the court to refuse, after issue
joined, "to permit the plaintiff to discontinue even
though the defendant cannot have affirmative relief under
the pleadings and though his only prejudice be the vexation and expense of a possible second suit upon the same
cause of action"; that this modification of the right of
voluntary discontinuance was'within the judicial power,
since it dealt with procedure; that the rule had been approved by the Court of Appeals; that it was applicable
also to bankruptcy proceedings; and that it had been
properly applied below. We agree with the reasoning and
the conclusion reached.
Second. The ruling of the referee on the question of
preference was correct for the reasons stated in Palmer
Clay Products Co. v. Brown, decided this day, ante, p.
227.
Affirmed.

