574

THE PEARL.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

and of the libel, we are constrained to say, there is no such
difference in the cases which they respectively make as can
take this case out of the operation of the principles of res
adjudieala.*
Whatever the result might be here, if this 'Obstacle were
out of the way, we have no choice but to apply the law in
this as in other cases.
DECREE AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE PEARL.'
A British vessel captured during the rebellion and our blockade of the South.
ern coast, by an American war steamer, on her way from England to
Nassau, N. P., condemned as intending/o run the blockade; Nassau being
a port which, though neutral within the definition furnished by international law, was constantly and notoriously used as a port of call and trans.
shipment by persons engaged in systematic violation of the blockade, and
in the conveyance of contraband of war; the vessel and cargo being
consigned to a house there well known, from previous suits, to the court,
as so engaged; the second officer of the vessel, and several of the sea.
men, examined in preparatorio,testifying strongly that the purpose of
the vessel was to break the blockade; and the owner, who was heard,
on leave given to him to take further proof, touching the use he intended
to make of the steamer after arrival in Nassau, and in what trade or
business he intended she should be engaged in, and for what purpose
she was going to that port, saying and showing nothing at all on those
points.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Florida, restoring, on payment by
the claimants of expenses and costs, the steamer Pearl, captured for intent to break the blockade of our Southern coast.,
established during the late rebellion; the question being
ebiefly of fact.

Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States,
Mr. Marvin, contra,for the claimants.
* Duchess- of Kingston's Case and the notes, 2 Smith's Leading Cases.

424; Bendernagle v. Cocks, 19 Wendell, 208.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PEARL.

Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, previously stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
. The Pearl wyas captured on the 20th January, 1863, by the
United States ship of war Tioga, between the Bahama banks
and Nassau.
The papers found on board showed that she was a British
vessel, belonging to one George Wigg, of Liverpool; that
he became owner on the 24th of September, 1862; that one
George M. Maxted was appointed master at Glasgow, where
she was purchased, on the 25th of September; that one Matthew L. Irving succeeded him on the 13th of October, also
at Glasgow; and that one William Jolly was appointed in
his place, at Cork, on the 22d of November. Jolly was
master at the time of capture.
She carried no cargo except ten bales of seamen's jackets
and cloth; shipped by Wigg at Cork and consigned to II.
Adderly & Co., at Nassau, to whom the vessel x'as also consigned. This firm has become well known in this court as
largely engaged in the business of blockade-running.
Several of the seamen, examined in preparation for the
primary hearing, concurred in representing the vessel as
destined to the Rebel Confederacy.
One of them was present when the vessel was purchased
and heard Wigg and Maxted negotiating for her. According to them, Maxted acted as principal rather than as subordinate, and was engaged about the same time in buying
other vessels of the same class as the Pearl, of small size and
light draft, and what was said impressed the witness with
the belief that all of them were destined to trade with the
Confederate ports.
Several other seamen made similar statements. It seemed
to be a common understanding among them that the Pearl
was to be engaged in running the.blockade, and there was
much talk about the practicability and probability of her
getting into the Confederate ports, and especially the port of
Charleston. "It was notorious," said one of them, "in
Glasgow and Cork, before and after the sailing of the Pearl,

T E PEARL.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

that she was engaged to run the blockade, and that she was
bought and fitted and sailed for that especial purpose."
One of the firemen stated that Maxted represented to him
and his mates, as an inducement to ship on the Pearl, that
they might reship on her or in some vessel in the Confederate service, with large pay, and have, as a bonus, the ten
pounds retIrn-money which was to be paid them on discharge at Nassau. The same witness stated that Maxted.
after leaving the Pearl, took command of a screw steamer,
the Thistle, from Liverpool for Nassau.
The testimony of the second officer of the Pearl was substantially to the same effect. i-Ie was engaged at Glasgo v
for the general management on board, by Maxted, shortly
before she sailed; and after a fortnight or more, shipped as
second officer. lHe understood the purchase by Wigg to be
made for parties in the Confederate States.
The master and the first mate testified that they knew
nothing of any destination of the ship beyond Nassau.
Neither knew to whom the vessel belonged, except from the
papers, but believed that she was owned by Wigg. All
they knew of the cargo was that it was consigned to Adderly
& Co.
The cause was heard upon the preparatory evidence on
the sixth of May, and on the same day, and betbre any decree was pronounced, a motion for further proof was made,
upon affidavits by Wigg, Maxted, and several of the seamen;
and on the 25th of May it was "ordered that the claimant
of the ship be allowed to produce further evidence, by his
own oath or otherwise, touching his interest therein and the
use he intended, at the time of the capture, to make of the
vessel after her arrival at Nassau; the trade or business he
intended she should be engaged in, and for what purpose
she was going to that port; and that the claimant of the
goods have time to produce an affidavit of his right and title
therein, and to produce such other proof of neutral ownership as he may be advised."
No new evidence at all appears to have been taken under
this order; but the affidavits used on the notice, and a Nas-

Dec. 1866.]

TaE PEARL.
Opinion of the court.

sau newspaper containing two government notices, seem to
have been admitted as further proof on the final hearing.
Some f the affiants were seamen'who had been examined
at Key West. They denied having made some statements
contained in the depositions put into the cause by the prize
commissioners; but they do not deny the conversations and
understandings to which they then testified. The substance
of their new affidavits was that the Pearl, at the time of her
capture, was on a bondfide voyage to Nassau. The affidavits
of the seermen, not befbre examined, were to the same effect.
They are entitled to very little weight as further proof.
The affidavit of Wigg was positive to his ownership; to
the non-existence of Confederate ownership; and to the allegation that the Pearl, at the time of her capture, was engaged in the bona' fide prosecution of a lawful voyage from
Great Britain to Nassau,. and that he had no knowledge or
belief that any cause existed which rendered her liable to
capture.
But he said nothing at all on the most important point in
respect to which he was allowed further proof, namely, what
use he intended to make of the steamer after arrival in Nassau; and in what trade or business he intended she should
be engaged; and for what purpose she was going to that
port.
The affidavit of Maxted also asserted the sole ownership
of Wigg; denied that Wigg was agent for the Confederate
States or connected in business with any person' residing in
either of them; denied that he himself made any contract
with any one to run the blockade, or had any conversation
with any of the seamen in relation to shipping in any vessel
to run the blockade; and concluded with an averment, that
of his own knowledge the steamer was purchased by Wigg
to carry mails for the British government between the West
Indies and Cuba, under proposals offbring live thousand
pounds per annum foil three years.
This affidavit, if entitled to credit, might repel the inference, warranted by the other evidence, that the Pearl was
p'(.hased and sailed with intent to break the blockade.
voL v.

37

TuE PEARL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But Maxted's own connection with the purchase of this and
other vessels, and his own engagenient in the suspicious
commerce with Nassau,.do not allow us to regard his evidence as of much value, especially in the absence of any satisfactory affidavit from Wigg himself.
It must be remarked, also, that the government notices
for proposals, put in evidence for the claimant, apparently
for the purpose of supporting the statement by Maxted, do
not support it at all. They invite proposals for sailino', not
for steam vessels, and relate to communication among the
Bahama Islands, not to communication between Cuba and
the West Indies.
On the whole, we are constrained to say that we perceive
no reasonable ground for believing that the Pearl was not
at the time of capture destined to employment in breaking
the blockade. We are not satisfied that her voyage was to
terminate at Nassau; but are satisfied, on the contrary, that
she was destined, either immediately after touching at that
port, or as soon as practicable after needed repairs, for one
of the ports of the blockaded coast.
The vessel, therefore, in conformity with the principles
recognized by us in several cases, must be condemned.
As to the ten bales of merchandise, the evidence showed
ownership in Wigg, rather than any other person; but no
claim was put in by him. They were claimed in behalf of
Adderly & Co., by the captain; but, in his deposition, he
disclaimed all knowledge of the ownership, except from the
consignment. No affidavits of title or neutral ownership
have been put in by Adderly & Co., under the notice obtained by the claimants, for'further proof. This neglect
connot be construed otherwise than as an admission that
they are not entitled to restitution.
A decree of condemnation, therefore, must pass against
the merchandise as well as the ship.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

