Dec. 1866.]

SERRANO

V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

SERRANRO V. UNITED STATES.
Long-continued and undisturbed possession of land in California, whilst
that country belonged to Spain or Mexico, under a simple permission
to occupy it from a priest of an adjoining mission, or a local military
commander, did not create an equitable claim to the land against either
of the governments of those countries ; nor is a claim based upon such
possession entitled to confirmation by the tribunals of the United States
under the act of Congress of March 3d, 1851.

THIS was a proceeding, under the act of March 3d, 1851,
for the confirmation of a claim to a tract of land in California known as the rancho of "Temescal," of four square
leagues in extent. The petition to the board of land commissioners asked for the confirmation on two grounds:
1st. By virtue of an alleged grant of the premises by the
authorities of the King of Spain to Leandro Serrano., the
testator of the claimants; and
2d. By virtue of long-continued and uninterrupted possession of the premises.
The proof negatived the existence of a grant, but showed
that Serrano had received the written permission of the
priest of the mission of San Luis Rey (to which mission the
land originally belonged), or of the military commander of
San Diego, to occupy the premises, and that under such permission he took possession of them, and occupied them, or
a portion of them, from about 1818 or 1819, until his death,
which occurred in 1852.
The present claim was presented by his executrix (thewidow), and his executor.
The deceased Serrano, made some improvements on the
premises, consisting principally of two or three adobe houses,
and he had a vineyard and fruit orchard. le had also several acres under cultivation, and was the owner of cattle,
horses, and sheep, in large numbers, which roamed over and
grazed on the hills and i n the valleys surrounding his residence, to the extent of the four leagues claimed by him.

452

SERRANO

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

His possession was continuous and undisputed until the cession of the country to the United States.
The land commission rejected the claim, but the District
Court, on appeal, reversed the action of the board, and by
its decree adjudged the claim valid, and confirmed it to the
extent of four leagues. From this decree the United States
appealed to this court.
Mr. Stanbery, A. G., and Mr. Wills, for the United States:
I. There is no archive evidence of the existence of a grant by.
Spain or Mexico to Serrano.
There is no petition, no disehio, no informe, no concession,
no titulo, no confirmation by the departmental assembly,
and no act of juridical possession. In short, there is not a
single link in the ordinary chain of title for grants of land
in California by the Spanish or Mexican governments, either
before or after the passage of the colonization law of 1824
and the regulations of 1828.
The claim must, therefore, be rejected, on the authority of
a long line of cases.*
II. Serrano's possession did not oriqinate and continue under
such circumstances as to bind the faith of Spain or Mexico, or to
create an equity against the United States.
According to his own statement, these lands were originally occupied by the mission San Luis Rey, of which Serrano was the mayor-domo. The priest of that mission permitted him to settle on and occupy a portion of the lands
claimed by it. Now, it is well settled that the mission had
no title, and consequently could give no binding title or possession.t
According to his own statement, he was allowed to continue his possession by the military commandante. Military
See, among the more recent, lomero v. United States, 1 Wallace, 721;

White v. Unite- States, Id. 660; Pico v. United States, 2 Id. 281.
t United States v. Ritchie, 17 Howard, 525, 640; United States V. Cruz
Cervantes, 18 Id. 553; Nobili v. Redman, 6 California, 825.

Dec. 1866.]

SERRANO V. UNITED STATES.

Argument for the claimants.

commandantes had no authority to make grants, except in
pueblos.
Messrs. J. ilanman and Cornelius Cole, contra, for the respondents:
The positions taken for the claimants are, that Serrano,
having entered in good faith under what he believed and
may be presumed to have been competent authority, and
having continued to occupy and improve the land under the
governments of Spain and Mexico until the acquisition of
this country by the United States and till this time, a period
of about forty-eight years, has acquired thereby a title by
prescription against this government as the successor of the
former ones; and if this position be untenable, that the
facts of the case present an equitable title, which should be
confirmed.
I. The Spanish law of prescription is laid down in Escriche.*
Attention need be directed only to those provisions which
declare a possession of twenty years, without title but in good
faith, induced by the acts of others with the knowledge of
the proprietor, to be good as a prescription even against the
absent, and ten years against the present; and continuous
possession of thirty years, however acquired, without suit
brought against it, to constitute a prescription, even if it
were acquired by violence or robbery; good faith not being
exacted in a prescription of thirty years.t
By the Spanish law prescription of forty years is good
against the king.
In the Recopilacion,T will be found a royal decree, which,
after reciting that persons hold cities, towns, and villages
without title, and that it is doubted whether the same could
be acquired against the crown, ordained,
* Vol. ii, pages 741-2, tit. Prcscripcion do Dominio.
t Siete Partidas, title xxix, L. 18, 19; see Moreau & Carlton's transla.

tion, voli, pages 382-3 ; Feb Mejicano, vol. i, lib. 2, cap. 2,
* L. 1, B. 4, title 16.

41 to 45.

454

SERRANO V. UNITED STATES.

ESutp.

Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

"That immemorial possession, proved in the manner and under the conditions required by the law of Toro,* be sufficient to
acquire against us and our successors any cities, towns, use,
jurisdiction, civil or criminal, and thing or part thereof annexed
or belonging thereto, provided the time of said prescription be
not interrupted by our command, naturally or civilly."
The law of Toro, above referred to as defining the conditions on which property is acquired by prescription, is as
follows:
"The time in which things are prescribed is comprehended
under two kinds of prescription, immemorial and temporal; the
first is proved by witnesses of good fame and character, who
depose to having seen the person in possession of the thing or
property for forty yeaits, and having heard their ancestors say
they never saw or heard anything to the contrary." t
In Landry v. Marlin, the Supreme Court of Louisiana
decided that the Spanish government recognized verbal as
well as written grants to laids; and that after a long possession, for nearly half a century, a written grant, if necessary, would be p.resumed.
In Barclay v. _[owell's Lessee,ยง this court held that an uninterrupted possession for thirty years would authorize the
presumption of a grant. "Indeed, under'peculiar circumstances," they say, "a grant has been presumed from a possession of less than the number of years required to bar the
action of ejectment by the statute of limitation." It seems
that the common law rule (that the presumption derived
from possession is that the possessor owns absolutely), is applicable to possession before the introduction of the common

* Which is law 1, title 7, b. 5, of the Recopilacion.

White's Recop., 1 vol. 95; see Lewis v. San Antonio, 7 Texas, 288,
where the above law is cited.

:

6 Peters, 4D8.
16 Louisiana, 1.
Herndon v. Casiano, 7 Texas,.822; New Orleans v. United States, 10

Peters, 734.

Dec. 1866.]

SERRANO V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the claimants.

In United. Stales v. Castro,* where the grant was not produced, but the claimant had occupied the land for twenty
years, the court says:
"An occupation so long-continued and notorious, with a claim
of ownership so universally recognized, might of itself be deemed
sufficient evidence of ownership."
Serrano undoubtedly always believed he was lawfully in
possession, and had a right to th6 possession; and that belief was induced and fully justified by the acts of the Mexican authorities for a long course of years.
It is difficult, if not impossible at this day, to ascertain
exactly what discretionary authority was vested, by the governors under the Spanish regime, in the priests of the mis.
sion, and the military cominandantes in remote and thinl 3
settled districts. Rockwell, in his Spanish and Mexicau
Law,t gives us some "instructions of the viceroy (dated
Mexico, August 17th, 1773), to be observed by the commandante appointed to the new establishments of San Diego
and Monterey."
Among them were:
"Article 12th. With the desire to establish population more
speedily in the new establishments, I, for the present, grant the
comimandante the power to designate the common lands, and also
even to distribute lands in private to such Indians as may most
dedicate themselves to agriculture and the breeding of cattle;
for having property of their own, the love of it will cause them
to radicate themselves more firmly; but the commandante must
bear in mind that it is very desirable not to allow them to live
dispersed, each one on the lands given to them, but. that they
must necessarily have their house or habitation in the town or
mission where they have been established or settled.
"Article 13th. I grant the same, faculty to the commandante
with respect to distributing lands to the other founders (pobladores), according to their merits and means of labor. They also
1 Hoffman, 125.
t 444 Appendix, No. 1; see Halleck's Report, California Corresp ndence,
119, where also these instructions are to be found.

SERRANO V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the claimants.

living in the town and not dispersed, declaring that in the prac.
tice of what is prescribed in this article and in the preceding,
twelfth, he must act in every respect in conformity with the
provisions made in the collection of the laws respecting newly
acquired countries and towns (reducciones y poblaciones), granting legal titles for the owner's protection, without exacting any
remuneration for it, for the act of possession."
Here is authority conferred upon the commandante, whose
successor, at San Diego, placed Serrano in possession, for the
distribution and granting of lands, with full discretion as to
quantity, outside of the towns and missions; for it provides
that the grantees shall not live dispersed on the lands
granted, but in the towns and missions, for mutual defence.
The commandantes sometimes acted as the informing officers, when there was no civil officer in the vicinity, and
grants were made upon their informations; and in pueblos,
at least, they had full power to put parties in possession of
land.
Similar functions were exercised by the priests, and they
could give -permission to occupy. It is not assuming anything to say that Serrano entered into possession lawfully,
and not as a trespasser.
At common law the general rule with regard to prescriptive claims is, that every such claim is good, if by possibility
it might have had a legal commencement,* and for upwards
of twenty years' enjoyment of an easement, orprofit a prendre,
a grant, or, as Lord Kenyon is reported to have said, even a
hundred grants, will be presumed, even against the crown,
if by possibility they could legally have been made.t In
Parker v. Baddwin,T Lord Ellenborough recognizes the right
to presume a grant after twenty years, and asserts the practice of the courts to do so. And, this doctrine has been repeatedly affirmed in our own country.ยง
The law will presume anything which would make the
Lord Pelham v. Pickersgill, 1 Term, 667.
Roe v. Ireland, 11 East, 284.
:Id. 490.
Gayetty v. Bethune, 14 Massachusetts, 49;. Kirk v.Smith, 9 Wheaton,
241; Rowland v. Wolf, Bailey, 56; Hogg v. Gill, 1 XeMullan,,829.
*

Dec. 1866.]

SERRANO V. UNITED

STATES.

Argument for the claimants.

ancient appropriation good, for whatever may commence by
grant is good by prescription.
This court has passed upon the validity of permission to
occupy lands Where no grant had ever issued. It did so in
the case of Berdugo et al. v. United States, for the San Rafael
rancho, and in that of Yorba et al. v. United States, for the
rancho of Santana, in both of which the claims were confirmed and appeals dismissed. The court has also uniformly
held that the term "grants" in a treaty comprehends not
only those which are made in form, but also any concession, warrant, or permission to survey, possess, or settle,
whether evidenced by writing-or parole, or presumed from
possession,* and that in the term "laws," is included custom
and usage, when once settled, though of recent date.t
II. .The.equities of this case are sufficient to sustain the
claim for a decree of confirmation. In Mitchel v. United
Siatcs,t this court, in referring to the Florida cases, uses this
language:
"Another objection is of a more general nature, that the
granzees did not acquire a legal title to the land in question.
But it must be remembered that the acts of Congress submit
these claims to our adjudication as a court of equity, and, as
often and uniformly construed in its repeated decisions, confer
the same jurisdiction over imperfect, inchoate, and inceptive
titles, as legal and perfect ones, and require us to decide by the
same rules on all claims submitted to us, whether legal or equitable. Whether, therefore, the title in the present case can partake of the one case or the other, it remains only for us to
inquire whether that" of the petitioner*is such, in our opinion,
that he has, either by the law of nations, the stipulations of any
treaty, the laws, usages, and customs of Spain, or the province
in which the land is situated, the acts of Congress and the proceedings under them, or a treaty, acquired a right which would
* Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 436.

f Renner v. Bank, 9 Wheaton, 585.
t 9 Peters, 733; see, also, the, opinion of the court in Strother v. Lucas,

12 Peters, 446, for a full discussion of the euity jurisdiction over inceptive
titles.

SERRANO V. UNITED

STATES.

ESup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

have been valid if the territory had remained under the domin-

ion of Spain."
The same construction has been placed upon the -rights
of claimants, under the act of Congress by which this case
is brought within the jurisdiction of this court. In United
States v. Alviso,* where the claimant had only taken the preliminary steps for the acquisition of title, and had obtained,
pending his application, a mere permission to occupy, under
which he hbad occupied the land since 1840, had improved
and cultivated it, and his family had resided on it, the court
says:
"The claimant appears to have been a citizen of the department, and no objection was made or suggested why he should
nat have been a colonist of that portion of the public domain he
has solicited; no imputation has been made against the integrity
of his documentary evidence, and no suspicion exists unfavorable to the bona fides of his habitation, or the continuity of his
possession and claim. ie has been recognized as the proprietor
of this land since 1840."
The documentary evidence referred to in that case, consisted only of the petition and permission to occupy; of no
legal effect as a grant, but showing the bonafides of his occupancy, and the knowledge and assent of the authorities,
which, coupled with his continuous possession, gave him, in
the opinion of the court, an equitable title which they felt
bound to recognize.
In United States v. Wilson,t where the claim rested upon
ageneral order of Governor Alvarado, in 1842, to the alcalde
of the mission of Obispo, to distribute the mission lands
among the resident Indians, accordig to the merits of each,
under which order the alcalde made a general distribution,
giving to one Romualdo much more than to the others, upon
a special order of the governor, in reward for meritorious
services, Romualdo having lived on the land for many years,
the court says:
.*23 Howard, 818.

t1 Black, 267.

Dec. 1866.]

SERRANO V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

"The title seems to be in conformity with the practice and
usages of the Mexican Government ... In the present instance
the possession and cultivation were of considerable duration, and
the distribution was intended to be permanent, and as a home
for the occupant. The claim appears to be an honest one, unaccompanied by suspicion, and under the circumstances, we
think, was properly confirmed."
The decision of the court does not recognize the order of
Alvarado as competent to convey title, but as merely creating an equity recognized by Mexican usages, which, coupled
with a long possession and cultivation, constituted "an
honest claim," which the court did not feel it could disregard.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below confirmed the claim of the appellees to
the rancho known as " Temescal," embracing five leagues,
and situated in the county of San Bernardino.
-It is insisted by the United States that this judgment was
wrong, because Leandro Serrano, under whom the appellees
claim, had no title, legal or equitable, 'to the land in controversy.
It can serve no useful purpose to review the voluminous
testimony in the record, for there is 'no substantial difference
in it on any point material to the decision of the cause, and
hardly any portion of it but what can be readily reconciled.
It is clear that Serrano occupied a portion of the property
which was confirmed to his widow and heirs continuously,
from 1818 or 1819 until his death, which occurred in 1852.
The improvements on the place consisted of two or three
adobe houses, a small vineyard and fruit orchard, and a few
acres in actual cultivation. At different periods of his occupancy he was the owner of cattle, sheep, and horses, which
subsisted on the uninclosed valleys and hills that surrounded
his residence. That his possession and occupation were undisturbed and undisputed during the whole period of Mexican sovereignty in California until our acquisition of the
country, is fully established. It is not so easy to determine

SERRANO v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the extent of his possession, but in the view we take of the
case, the question is unimportant.
The petition presented to the board of land commissioners
asked for the confirmation of this claim on two grounds,first, because a provisional giant was made; and,.second, by
virtue of long-continued and uninterrupted possession. The
proof not only negatives the existence of a grant, but clearly
shows that Serrano occupied the premises by a written permission from the priest of the mission, or the commandante
of San Diego, or from both conjointly. The only witness
who pretends ever to have seen a paper concerning a grant
was Villia, an ignorant man, unable to write, with very little
knowledge of reading, and who, on being shown some writing, in order to test his ability to read, was unable to tell
what it was. It is impossible to escape the conclusion that
this witness was mistaken, without discrediting all the remaining evidence, including the repeated declarations of
Serrano that he had no title. Villia evidently saw a paper
in the hands of Serrano in relation to this land, but it was
not a title of concession by Governor Sala, but the written
permission to occupy given by the commandante and priest.
The archives of the country are totally silent on the subject
of this pretended grant, and there is no record evidence even
of an application for a grant, which exists in ordinary cases.
If Serrano even thought he had such a grant, why did he
reply to Wilson (who was his friend and relative by marriage), on being advised of the necessity of perfecting his
title, if lie h.fd any, "that lie had no title, but had been living
on the place ever gince the. settlement of California, and
everybody respected his claim."
It is apparent, from the testimony produced by the claimants, without considering that offered by the United States,
that the grant was a fiction, and that Serrano occlipied by a
written permission given to him by the priest, and perhaps
by the conmandante.. It is equally certain that this permission was the paper sent by him to Governor Eehandea for
the purpose of obtaining from him a title. Under the government of Spain, in California, the commandante or priest

Dec. 1866.]

SERRANO V. UNITED STATES.

461

Opinion of the court.

had no authority to grant lands, or to make contracts that
could bind the Spanish government to grant them. The
governors of the country only had this power. If Serrano
had an imperfect grant, it would show that he was in possession, claiming title, but a possession under a simple permission to occupy could not raise even an equity against the
government.*
It is clear, therefore, that there was nothing done which
estopped the Spanish government from denying Serrano's
title, and his bare possession did not bind the Mexican government, during its dominion in California, from 1823 to
1846, not to deny it. The colonization laws of Mexico were
exceedingly liberal, and yet they were never invoked by
Serrano to aid him in getting a title.
If, then, Spain and Mexico never granted this land, or
contracted to grant it, or were under obligations to grant it,
the claim has surely no validity as against the United States.
But it is insisted that if the legal title fails, yet the notorious and long-continued possession establishes an equitable one.
The actual possession in this case was limited to a very
small quantity of ground; but, conceding that it embraced
five leagues, no equities attached to it, considering the manner in which it was obtained and continued. There is no
dverse holding here, but the possession was a permissive
one, and consistent with the proprietary interest of Spain
and Mexico; and the fact that those governments did not
terminate the possession, which was a mere tenancy at will,
cannot create an equity entitled to confirmation. Serrano
held under a license to occupy, and that license could be revoked at any time. The failure to revoke it cannot change
the original character of the possession into an adverse one.
If Serrano had entered into possession under a claim of right,
and had title-papers, though imperfect, he might say -that
the length of his possession entitled him to the favorable
consideration of the court. Not so, however, where he had
*Peralta

case, 19 Howard, 843; United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 486.

LicENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

no interest in the land, never applied for any, either to Spain
or Mexico, and was content with a permission to occupy it
for the purposes of pasturage.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the case
r6manded to the District Court of California, with directions
to enter an order
DISMISSING THE PETITION.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in its decision.

LICENSE TAX CASES.
UNITED STATES V. VASSAR.
9
V. SCHUREMAN.
it

v.
v.

GREEN.
BEATTY.

V. SHELLY.

v.

BOWEN.

99

0v.SWAIN.

49

V. CRAFT.

ic

V. CRAFT.

1. Licenses under the act of June 30, 1864, .'to provide internal revenue to
support the government, &c." (13 Stat. at Large, 223), and the amendatory acts, conveyed to the licensee no authority to carry on the licensed
business within a State.
2. The requirement of payment for such licenses is only a mode of imposing
taxes on the licensed business, and the prohibition, undei%penalties,
against carrying on the business without license is only a mode of enforcing the payment of such taxes.
8. The provisions of the act of Congress requiring such licenses, and imposing penalties for not taking out and paying for them, are not contrary to the Constitution or to public policy.
4. The provisions in the act of July 13, 1866, "to reduce internal taxation,
&c." (14 Stat. at Large, N3), for the imposing of special taxes, in lieu of
requiring payment for licenses, removes whatever ambiguity existed in
the previous laws, and are in harmony with the Constitution and public
policy
5. The recognition by the acts of Congress of the power and right of tho

