THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

originally shipped with intent to violate the blockade; that
the owners, of the cargo intended that it should be transshipped at Nassau into some vessel more likely to succeed
in i.eaching safely a blockaded port than the Springbok;
that the voyage from London to the blockaded port was, as
to cargo, both -in law and in the intent of the parties, one
voyage.; and that the liability to condemnation, if captured
during any part of that voyage, attached to the cargo from
the time of sailing.
The decree of the District Court must, therefore, be revorsed as to the ship, but without costs or damages to the
claimants, and must be affirmed as to the cargo; and the
cause must be remanded for further proceedings
IN

THE

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

PETERIOFF.

1. A blockade is not to be extended by construction.
2. The mouth of the Rio Grande was not included in the blockade of the
ports of the rebel States, set on foot by the National government
during the late rebellion; and neutral commerce with Matamorag, a
neutral town on the Mexican side of the river, except in contraband
destined to the enemy, was entirely free.
8. Semble that a belligerent cannot blockade the mouth of a river, occupied
on one hank by neutrals with complete rights of navigation.
4. A vessel destined for a neutral port with no ulterior destination for the
ship, or none by sea for the cargo to any blockaded place, violates no
blockade.
Hence trade, during our late rebellion, between London and INiatamoras,
two neutral places, the last an inland one of Mexico, and close to our
Mexican boundary, even with intent to supply, from Matamoras, goods
to Texas, then an enemy of the United States, was not unlawful on the
ground of such violation.
5. The trade of neutrals with belligerents in articles not contraband is
absolutely free unless interrupted by blockade: the conveyance by neutrals to belligerents of contraband articles is always unlawful, and such
articles may always be seized during transit by sea.
Co.The classification of goods as contraband or not contraband, which is
best supported by American and English decisions, d'vides all merchandise into three classes.

D~.1866.]

THE P ETERHOFF.

Syllabus.
i. Articles manufactured, and primarily or ordinarily used for military
purposes in time of war.
ii. Articles which may be and are used for purposes of war or peace according to circumstances.
iii. Articles exclusively used f6r peaceful purposes.
7. Merchandise of the first class destined to a belligerent country or places
occupied by the army or navy of a belligerent is always contraband;
merchandise of the second class is contraband only when actually destined to the military or naval use of a belligerent; while merchandise
of the third class is not contraband'at all, though liable to seizure and
condemnation for violation of blockade or siege.
8. Parts of a cargo described in a ship's invoices as cases of "artillery
harness," as "men's army Biuchers," as " artillery boots," and as
"government regulation gray blankets," come within the first class.
9. Contraband articles contamiriate the parts not contraband of a cargo
if belonging to the same owner; and the non-contraband must share
the fate of the contraband.
10. In modern times conveyance of contraband attaches in ordinary cases
only to the freight of the contraband merchandise It does not subject
the vessel to forfeiture.
11. But, in determining the question of costs and expenses, the fact of such
conveyance may lie properly taken into consideration with other circumstances, such as want of frankness in a neutral captain engaged in
a commerce open to great suspicion and his destruction of some kind
of papers in the moment of capture,-and this although it seemed
almost certain that the ship was destined to a port really neutral, and
with a cargo for the most part neutral in character and destination.
12. The captain of a merchant steamer, when brought to by a vessel of war,
is not privileged by the fact $hat he has a government mail on board,
from sending, if required, his papers on board the boarding vessel for
examination; on the contrary, he is bound by that circumstance to the
strictest performance of neutral duties and to special respect of belligerent rights.
13. Citizens of the United States faithful to the Union, who resided in the
rebel States at any time during the civil war, but who during i6
escaped from those States, and have subsequently resided in the loyal
States, or in neutral countries, lost no rights as citizens by reason of
temporary and constrained residence in the rebellious portion of the
country.

APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court for the South-

crin District of New York, condemning for attempt to break
blockade, a vessel ostensibly on a voyage from London to
the mouth of the Rio Grande, with a cargo documented for
a neutral port.

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Or,

Statement of the case.

The case was thus:
The territory of the United States, as is generally known,
is separated on onO part of its boundary from the republic
of Mexico by the Rio.Grande, a large stream, entering by a
broad mouth, and by a course at that point nearly east, the
Gulf of Mexico. At the mouth of the river a bar prevents
the passage of vessels drawing over seVen feet of water. By
treaty between the two nations the boundary line begins in
the Gulf three leagues from land opposite the mouth of the
river, and runs northward from the middle of it. The navigation of the stream is also made free and common to the
citizens of both nations, without interruption by either without the consent of the other, even for the purpose of improving the navigation.
%Aboutforty miles up the river, on the United States bank of
the stream, in the State of Texas, stands the American town
of Brownsville; and nearly opposite, on the Mexican bank,
the old Spanish one of Matamoras, separated but by the
river. The natural facilities of intercourse between the two
places are thus extremely easy. [See sketch infra, p. 173.]
Both towns are approached from the Gulf by the Rio
Grande; but Brownsville may be also approached through
places more on the northern coast of the Gulf, and wholly
within the Federal territory, to wit, by the -BrazosSantiago
and the Boca Chica.
In this state of geographical position aid of treaty with
Mexico, the President, on the 19th April, 1862, during the
late rebellion in the Southern States, and with the purpose,
as declared to foreign governments, to " blockade the whole
coast from the Chesapeake Bay to the. Rio Grande," declared
the intention of the National government to set on foot a
blockade of those States "by posting a competent force so
as to prevent the entrance or the exit of vessels;" and a naval
force was soon after stationed near the mouth of the Rio
Grande. No force of any kind was placed along the Texan
bank of the river, that region being then in rebel possession,
as the opposite was in Mexican.
Nothing was said in these proclamations of the port of

Dec. 1866.]

TimE

PETERHOFF.

Statement of the case.

Brownsville being blockaded, though in a subsequent proclhination (February 18, 1864), relaxing the blockade, it was
recited as a matter of fact that that place had been blockaded.
With this blockade above mentioned, as made by the proclamation of 19th April, in force, the Peterhoff, a British
built and registered merchant screw-propeller, drawing sixteen feet of water, not a fast sailer, set sail from London
upon a voyage documented by manifest, shipping list, clearance, and other papers, for the port of Matamoras.
The bills of lading, of which there were a large number,
all stipulated for the delivery of the goods shipped " off the
Rio Grande, Gulf of Mexieo,for Malanwras;" adding, that
they were to be taken from alongside the ship, providing
lighters can cross the bar.
'With the exception of a portion consigned to the orders
of the captain, which was owned by the owners of the vessel, the cargo was repr, sented in agency or consigneeship
chiefly by three different persons on board the vessel as passengers-Redgate, Bowden, and Almond-all natives of
Great Britain. Redgate stated that a large portion was
consigned to him as a " merchant residing in Matamoras,"
and that, " had the goods arrived there, they were to take
the chances of the market." Bowden testified to the same
effect, that, had they arrived, the portion represented by
hlWm would have taken the chances of sale in the market,
and the proceeds been returned to the shippers. Almond,
that it was his intention to settle in Matamoras, and to sell
the goods represented by himself, "taking my chance in the
market for the sale."
At the time of this voyage Mexico was at war with France;
that is to say, France was endeavoring to place Prince Maximilian on the throne of Mexico, against the wishes of its
people and of its legitimate President, Juarez, and was supporting its pretensions by force of arms in the Mexican territory.
The cargo of the Peterhoff, valued at $650,000, was a miscellaneous cargo, and was shipped by different shippers, all

THE PETERHOFF.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

British subjects except one, Redgate, hereafter described.
A part of it was owned by the owner of the vessel.
Of its numerous packages, a certain number contained
articles useful for military and naval purposes in time of
war. Among them, as specially to be noted, were thirty.
six cases of artillery harness in sets for four horses, with
two riding-saddles attached to each set. The owner of this
artillery harness owned also a portion of the non-military par
.
or army
of the cargo. There were 14,450 pairs of " Blucher"
"government
of
5580
pairs
boots;"
boots; also "artillery
regulation gray blankets;" 95 casks of horseshoes of a
large size, suitable for cavalry service; and 52,000 horseshoe nails.
There were also considerable amounts of iron, steel, shovels, spades, blacksmiths' bellows and anvils, nails, leather;
and also an assorted lot of drugs; 1000 pounds of calomel,
large amounts of morphine, 265 pounds of chloroform, and
2640 ounces of quinine. There were also large varieties of
ordinary goods.
Owing to the blockade of the whole Southern coast, drugs,
and especially quinine, were greatly needed in the Southern
States.
During the rebellion, Matamoras, previously an unimportant place, became suddenly a port of immen'se trade;
a vast portion of this new trade having been, as was matter
of common assertion and belief, carried on through Brownsville, between merchants of neutral nations and the Southern
States. And it was stated at the bar that the Federal government had, for reaons of public policy, even granted several clearances from New York to Matamoras during the
rebellion, though only on security being given that no supplies should be furnished to persons in rebellion.
The Peterhoff never reached the Rio Grande. She was
captured by the United States vessel of war Vanderbilt on
suspicion of intent to run the blockade and of having contraband on board. When captured she was in the Caribbean
Sea south of Cuba, and in a course to the Rio Grande, through
the Gulf of Mexico; having some days previously been

Dec. 1866.]

TIE PETERHOrm.
Statement of the case.

boarded, but not captured, by another Federal cruiser, the
Alabama
She had on board when captured a British mail for Matamoras, closed under official seal. The officer of the Vanderbilt, on boarding her, asked, her captain to take to that vessel
his papers. This the captain of the Peterh6ff refused to do,
assigning as the ground of refusal that lie was in charge of
her Majesty's mail, and requiring that all papers should be
examined on the Peterhoff itself.
In addition it appeared that papers or articles of some
kind had been destroyed in view of capture. A "package"
was thrown overboard. The captain of the Peterboff, having
in a general way presented a similar statement on the examination in preparatorio,gave, on a supplemental examination, this circumstantial account of the matter:
"Before leaving Falmouth I received a telegram from the
owner of the ship, instructing me to question the passengers as
to whether they had any documents in their possession. I immediately called them together. They, one and all, including a
passenger named Mohl, declared that they had nothing in their

possession of such description. After the ship left Falmouth,
Mr. Mohl came to me,and stated that he had a small packet of
white powder-' patent white powder' he called it-in which he
and some of his friends were interested. I said, 'You had better
deliver it up to me, for it is a dangerous article to have on
board.' Hc gave it to me and I locked it u) in my state-raom,
I asked him why he had not mentioned this before leaving Fal
mouth. He replied, that as it was neither papers or writings
of any kind, .he did not think it requisite. When the Alabama
approached us I called Mr. Mohl and told him that I did not
like having this packet of powder on board, and that if the ship
was likely to be searched it must either be opened or destroyed,

and then gave it in charge of one of ny officers, thQ second officer, with orders to throw the packago overboard if I instructed
him. Our vessel not being examined by the Alabama, it was
not then destroyed. After we were boarded by the Vanderbilt
I called Mr. Mohli again and requested him to let me see the
contents of the package. To this lie objected, saying it was a
patent, and could not be seen by any but himself and friends. So
VOL. V.

8

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

I ordered it to be thrown overboard, fearing it might jeopardize
the ship in some way, and it was accordingly thrown overboard.
I believe it to have been wfite powder as stated by Mr. Mohl,
and had no reason to believe otherwise, and do not think any
one knew the contents of this packet but this same Mr. MohI."
One of ihe seamen, however, testified that the package
thrown overboard was a box into which the captain put
papers, and that giving it to the second officer he told him
to put something in the box to sink it, and on raising of hiq
finger to let it go overboard.
Another seaman, that the package was " a scaled parce
wrapped ini brown paper."
A third, that it was a package sewed up in canvas
weighted with lead so as to sink it, and was spoken of by
the captain as " despatches;" "that after sending for Mr.
Mohl to witness the necessity for throwing the package
overboard, he then ordered the second officer to throw it
over from a part of the ship where it would not be observed
by the Vanderbilt; which he did; and that Mr. Mohl appeared very much depressed at the necessity."
Mohi was permitted by the government after the capture
to go at large.
The captain admitted that he had torn up some letters,
which lie swore were letters from his wife and father; swearing also that no other papers were destroyed.
A small portion of the cargo, about £150, was owned by,
and a large part, about £20,000, was consigned to a person
named Redgate, already referred to. In the part consigned
he was interested by way of commission. Redgate was a
native of England, but had come to Texas while it was a
Mexican province, and was a resident there when it was annexed to the United States. le made this statement, not
disproved, of his conduct during the rebellion.
-Since the annexation of Texas to the United States, the deponent has borne true allegiance to the United States in every
matter and thing. In every way and shape possible for him to
act, he opposed the secession of the State of Texas from the

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETER11OFF.
Statement of the case.

Union. At the time of the passage of the so-called secession
ordinance of that State, he was a member of its legislature.
After the passage, he, together with fourteen members of the
house of representatives, four senators, and six protesting delegates of the secession convention, signed an address to the people of Texas, urging them to resist the ordinance and to remain
in the Union. That address was printed and circulated, as far
as possible, throughout the State. He contributed to the circulation of the said address a very considerable amount of
money. [Address produced.] Owing to the state of public feeling in Texas at the time of the publication and circulation of
the address, the lives of the signers of the same were greatly
perilled; one of them has since been murdered, and another is
now in duress, as the deponent is informed and believes; and
the remainder of the said twenty-four 'senators, members, and
protesting delegates (amongst the latter this deponent), are all,
or nearly all, in exile from the State of Texas as political refugees. After the promulgation of the said address, and before
leaving the State of Texas, as he has reason to believe, he narrowly escaped assassination, and hIe knows that his life was
conspired against by the secessionists in consequence of his
political opinions and of his opposition to secession."
After leaving Texas, Redgate became a resident of Matamoras, trading there and thence. He was on board the
vessel when captured, superintending his interest.
The vessel having been taken into New York, was there
libelled in the District Court as prize of war. Claim was
filed by the captain, intervening for the interest of his principals the "owners of the steamer and cargo;" also by Redgate as "owner, agent, and consignee of a large portion of
the cargo," and by Almond as "owner, agent, and consignee" of another portion.
The District Court condemned the vessel and cargo as
lawful prize of war.
The case was now before this court, on the appeal of Jarman, professing to represent the vessel and cargo, and on
the appeals of Redgate and Almond, professing to represent
their respective portions of the cargo.

86

THE PETERHOFF.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the captors.

Mr. CQf.e, special counsel, and Mr. Ashton, Assistant A. G.,
for the United Slates, and in support of the decree:
1. The fact that if the vessel went to the Rio Grande at
all, all her cargo would have to be taken offin lighters, and
if taken to Matamoras, would have to be transported on these
fbr no less a distance than forty miles, raises some presumption that the cargo was not destined to go up or even to the
Rio Grande at all; but that the ostensible destination was a
simulated one, and that really, the blockade was meant to
be broken at any point of the Southern coast which should
be found most practicable; or, at farthest, broken on the
Gulf coast of Texas, which, it will, be conceded, that our
blockade covered.
The idea is confirmed by the various facts, as that
1. The cargo was of a character and extent, wholy unadapted to the insignificant port of Matamoras and the Mexican market which centres there, but perfectly adapted in
all respects to the enemy market, everywhere, and by that
market urgently demanded.
2. That the master refused to convey his papers aboard
the Vanderbilt, and most of all,
3. That, under circumstances of aggravation, he destroyed
papers in the moment of capture.
We advert to these last two points hereafter.
II. Admitting, however, that the cargo was destined to
go up the Rio Grande and to Matamoras specifically as
documented, and was meant bonafide for its use, the destination was unlawful.
1. That a blockade of the mouth of the Rio Grande was in
fact included in our blockade of the Southern coast, cannot,
we think, be rightly denied. The purpose of the government, both unquestionable and clearly expressed, was to
blockade the rebellious States, in a specific manner. And
how? "By posting a competent force so as to prevent the
entrance or exit of vessels" into or out of those regions: "so,"
of course, as to prevent such entrance or exit in any form ;
includhig, of necessity, perhaps primarily, that form in which
"essls usually, in common parlance, do, or, in strict par.

Dec. 1866.]

THE Pr,,ERHOFF.
Argument for the captors.

lance, can alone enter a country; that is to say, by sailing
into it by its navigable rivers.
A blockade of the"mere Gulf coast of Texas was no blockade. That coast has few or no ports. The vast stream of
the Rio Gran'de, was the best place of entrance into Texas,
and if the blockade was to be a blockade made "'so" as to
prevent entrance of vessels into that State, then Matamorag,
Brownsville, and the whole banks of the river, as far as
navigable for vessels, was blockaded of irresistible inference. And that this was the way in which the blockade
was understo6d by its author to have been made, is shown
by the proclamation relaxing it. This recites that Brownsville had been blockaded; which implied that the whole
mouth of the Rio Grande, like the whole mouth of other
rivers on the rebel coast had been: a blockade of half a river
being of no value to the blockading government, and not to
be presumed.
We assume then that the river mouth was intended by
our government to be blockaded.
Had our government a right so to blockade it?
It had.
This proposition rests on the principle that the belligerent
has a right to make his blockade absolutely effective.
To allow vessels or their cargoes to cross the bar at the
mouth of the Rio Grande and pass tip the river under the
pretext of going to Matamoras, was to render the blockade
of the Texan side of the river nugatory. No watchfulness
or energy in the blockading squadron outside the bar could
prevent unlimited supplies from reaching Brownsville, and
through it the whole confederacy, ifthey might with impunity be carried up to Matamoras, only a few -yards distant
from Brownsville, and far beyond the reach of the blockaders.
The Maria,* decided by Sir William Scott, asserts the
principle which we put forth. There the river Weser, one
bank of which was held by the French (enemy), and on the
* 6 Robinson. 201, 204.

THIE PETER[IOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the captors.

other bank of which was the neutral city of Bremen, was
blockaded by the British. The cargo was shipped from
Bremen on the Weser to the Jahde in lighters, and there
transshipped, and was on it way to America in the vessel
when captured. Itwas contended by the captors that the
exportation from Bremen was a violation of the blockade
of the Weser. Sir William Scott said:
"I have had frequent occasion to observe how severely the
neutral cities connected with the Weser and the Eibe are pressed
upon by the blockade of those rivers. At the same time it is
my duty to apply to those operations of blockade the principles
that belong to that branch of the law of nations generally, and
by which only such measures can be maintained. The principles themselves cannot differ; although it will undoubtedly be
the disposition of the court to alleviate the situation of those
tovns as much as possible by attending to any distinctions that
can be advanced in their favor, not inconsistent with the sound
construction of the general principles of law. A blockade imposed on the Weser must in its nature be held to affect the
commerce of Bremen; because if the commerce of all the towns
situated on that river is allowed, it would be only to say, in
more indirect language, that the blockade itself did not exist.
It cannot be doubted, then, on general principles, that these
goods would be subject to condemnation, as having been conveyed through the Weser; and whether that was effected in
large vessels or small would be perfectly insignificant. That
they were brought through the mouth of the blockaded river
for the purpose of,being shipped for exportation would subject
them to be considered as taken on a continued voyage, and as
liable to all the same principles that are applied to a direct
voyage, of which the terminus a quo and the terminus ad quem
are precisely the same as those of the more circuitaus destination .....
..If,
therefore, nothing had passed between the
government of this country and the city of Bremen, it appers
to me that these goods would be subject to condemnation, and
that I should be unable to distinguish the port of Bremen from
any other place liable to the general operations of a blockade."
The Zelden Rust,* by the same judge, seems to be to the
* 6 Robinson, 93.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETERHorF.

39

Argument for the captors.

like effect. There a cargo of Dutch cheese was taken on an
asserted destination from Amsterdam to Corunna. The
captors argued that a destination to Corunna was, in fact, a
destination to Ferrol (the enemy port), since those ports
were both in the same bay, and so situated as to render it
impossible to prevent supplies from going immediately to
Ferrol for the use of the Spanish navy if they weri permitted to enter the bay unmolested on an asserted destination to Corunna. Having held that cheese, going to a place
of naval equipment and fit for naval use, was contraoand,
Sir William Scott said:
"Corunna is, I believe, itself a place of naval equipment in
some degree; and if not so exclusively, and in its prominent
character, yet from its vicinity to Ferrol it is almost identified
with that port. These ports are situated in the same bay, and
if the supply is permitted to be imported into the bay, it would,
I conceive, be impossible to prevent it from going on immediately, and in the same conveyance, to Ferrol."
He adds:
"1 think myself warranted to consider this cargo, on the
present destination, as contraband,and, as such, subject to condemnation."*
His language in The Neutralitet,-not indeed that of a
solemn judgment, but, as his, still much to be listened to,is equally in support of our position :
"I am disposed to agree to a position advanced in argument,
that a belligerent is not called upon to admit that neutral ships
can innocently place themselves in a situation where they may
with impunity break the blockade whenever they please. If
the belligerent country has a right to impose a blockade, it
must be justified in the necessary means of enforcing that right;
and if a vessel could, under the pretence of going further, approach, cy pres, close up to the blockaded port, so as to be en
* 6 Robinson, 94.

THE
rETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the captors.

abled to slip in without obstruction, it would be impossible that
any blockade could be maintained. It would, I think, be no
unfair rule of evidence to hold as a presumption de jure, that she
goes there with an intention of breaking the blockade; and if
such an inference may possibly operate with severity in particular cases, where the parties are innocent in their intentions,
it is a severity necessarily connected with the rules of evidence,
and essential to the effectual exercise of the right of war."
Other cases-as The Charlotte Sophia, The Charlotte Chris.

tine, and The Gate Erwartung,* decided, all, by Sir William
Scott, all tend to a similar conclusion.
We do not assert that all neutral commerce with Matamoras was interdicted by the blockade of the Rio Grande;
but simply commerce of a contraband character. The principle declared by Lord Stowell was applied by him to all neutral trade of Bremen, and, in reason, may safely extend that
far. But we have preferred to restrict its application to trade
of a contraband character, because the case of the Peterhoff
requires no more, and because, so stated, it seems to us to be
within the authority of The Zelden Rust.
2. If our position just presented is not a true one, still as
a matter of fact the ulterior destination of the cargo was
Texas, and the other Southern States then in insurrection,
and this ulterior destination was a breach of the blockade.
The whole case proves the destination which we allege.
We must advert here to the latc familiar history of the
straits to which the Southern armies and people were reduced by our stringent blockade of their whole coast. The
sudden elevation of the petty port of Matamoras into a great
centre of commercial activity rivalling the trade of New
York or Liverpool, because its territorial neutrality, and its
proximity to Texas, seemed to secure to trade with the
rebels almost absolute immunity from danger, and to set at
complete defiance the efforts of our blockaders; the remarkable spectacle of first-class ships, laden with cargoes of va* 6 Robinson, 205, 101, and 182.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETERTIOFF.
Argument for the captors.

riety and value, arrested off an almost uninhabited coast by
a bar which compelled them to transfer their cargoes to
lighters in the open sea, many miles from their pretended
port of destination, and which even prevented their approaching that port after they were unladen; the sudden
accession to the population of Matamoras of large numbers
of eager speculators, most of whom were, like Redgate, inhabitants of rebel States, and the establishment of numerous and extensive importing houses with branches at London, Liverpool, and Glasgow, who achieved both "entrance"
and "exits" of vessJs : all this is matter of present judicial knowledge.
Under the stimulus of fancied exemption from danger,
this new rebel trade "rose like an exhalation," and Matamoras became the commercial outpost of the rebellion.
For the new trade was not with the country in which Matamoras is situated, nor even with that town itself, but with
the territory on the other side of the river, only a stone's
throw across. The market, which was called Matamoras,
was the whole popu"lation of our Southern States, extending
to the Potomac, and the Southern armies on both sides of
the Mississippi. And the supplies thus got from Matamoras
were paid for in cotton.
Was this sort of commerce a breach of our blockade?
Practically, without any doubt whatever, it was.
And it was so in law. The Bermuda is in point. There
the voyage, as documented, was to the neutral port, Nassau.
There was no reason to suppose that the vessel itself, the
Bermuda, meant to run our blockade. The cargo was, perhaps, meant to be landed at the neutral port. But it was
unsuited for that port. " The character of the cargo," said
Chase, C. J., who gave the opinion of the court, " made its
ulterior, if not direct destination, to a rebel port, quite certain." Counsel argued much in favor of what were set up
as neutral rights. But the court, defining with clearness
and precision, all rights that were really neutral, said that
"if it was intended to affirm that a neutral ship may take
on a contraband .cargo ostensibly for a neutral port, but des.

Tim tPETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the captors.

tined in reality for a belligerent port, either by the same ship
or by another, without becoming liable, from the commence
ment to the end of the voyage, to seizure, in order to the
confiscation of the cargo, we do not agree to it."
And acting on this view, a decree of condemnation was
affirmed.
The decree below ought, therefore, to be "I affirmed ;" af
firmed in toto, and in form; but if it is not so affirmed, it
should be affirmed in its nain parts severally: and this in
the result is nearly tantamount to an affirmance simply.
(a) As to the eontraband, and also as to the whole part owned
by the owner of that contraband portion. Both are confiscable.
A large part of the cargo was contraband of war by any
definition of contraband of war ever made. It cannot be
doubted that this part was meant for the Southern army.
If this was so, then even if really shipped for Matamoras
and meant to be landed and sold to the enemy there, it is
confiscable, and it contaminates all owned by the owner
of it.
(b) As to the part claimed by Redgate. This is confiscable
as enemy's property. Redgate was a citizen of Texas, an
enemy's country; and irrespective of any personal dispositions in law, an enemy. This is the doctrine as settled by
the court, even under circumstances of the greatest hardle
ship.* Now restitution cannot be made to an enemy. H
has no standing in court. The decree as to that part of the
cargo claimed by him, must stand.t
Nor can the court go behind the claim of Redgate to seek
neutral owners whom he may represent, and who are not
disclosed either by him or by themselves. They have no
legal existence except in him, and we may safely infer that
they have no existence at all.
Besides, the legal effect of the consignment of these goods
to Redgate, into whose actual possession they were delivered
Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wallace, 404.
23, p. 772; 8 Philimore on
- Halleck's International Law, chap. 31,
-ame, 461; The Falcon, 6 Robinson, 199.
*Mrs.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETERH1OFF.
Argument for the captors.

at the time of shipment, was to vest the title in him, and so
make them lawful prize, no matter by whom they were
shipped.*
(c) The vessel. This must also be condemned.
1. The refusal of the master when boarded by the Vanderbilt, to exhibit his papers on board that vessel, was a grave
offence against public law. The case is like that of The
Maria, condemned for refusal by Sir William Scott.t
2. But the crowning and conclusive act was the destruction
of papers in the momenL of capture; and the various falsehoods,-afterthoughts, in a good degree,-in concealment
of the fact of destruction, or of the. character and importance
of the papers. As evidence of intent to run the blockade,
this, indeed, should condemn both vessel and cargo. But
as a rule of policy it equally holds as respects a vessel,
where all the cargo may not be involved, The case comqs
within The Pizarro, where it is said by this court that if the
explanation be not prompt and frank, or if it be weak and
futile, condemnation ensues from defects in the evidence;
defects which the party is not permitted to supply. It falls
still more within the case of The Two .Brothers,where Sir
William Scott says, that "if neutral masters destroyed papers,
they were not at liberty to explain away such suppression by
saying they were only private letters; that it was always to be
supposed that such letters relate to the ship or cargo, and
that it was of material consequence to some interests that
they should be destroyed."§
It is a presumption of law that with such an immense
body of contraband on board the destination, direct or
through Matamoras, of it, was known to the owners of the
vessel. This is the law to be gathered from numerous cases:
as, for example, from among them, The Neutralitet,l where
the owner chartered the ship for contraband trade; The
The Packet do Bilboa, 2 Robinson, 133.
t 1 Robinson, 340, 860.
1 2 Wheaton, 227.
1 Robinson, 131; see also The Rosalie and Betty, 2 Id. 843-353i The
Rising Sun, Id. 104.
113 Robinson, 296

THE PET IRI1OFF.

rSup. ct

Argument for the claimants.

1 anklin,* where the ship was carrying contraband, with a
false destination, and where Sir William Scott said that the
relaxation of the ancient rule which condemned the ship
with the cargo could only be claimed by fair cases; 2Yze
1?anger,t where he said, "If the owner of the ship will place
his property under the absolute management and control
of persons who are capable of lending it to be made an instrument of fraud in the hands of the enemy, he must sustain the consequences of such misconduct on the part of his
agent;" The Baltict where the ship was condemned because
"the owner must have been aware of the fraud intended, if
not a confidential party to it."§
Messrs. Marvin, Sherwood, and A. . Smith, contra, for the
claimants:
I. There is really no ground to suppose intent to do anything but what was ostensibly presented as the purpose of
the voyage. The vessel was a slow sailer, not at all suited
by speed for a blockade-runner. The cargo was needed by
Mexico for her war with France as much as by the rebel
army for its resistance to the Federal power. The vessel,
drawing as much water as she did, had necessarily to anchor
off the mouth of the Rio Grande. She could not go into it.
We speak of the master's disinclination to take his papers
aboard the Vanderbilt and of his alleged throwing overboard of papers hereafter. The destination then was not
simulated, and the cargo was destined to go up the Rio
Grande.
I. This destination was lawful1. Because in point of fact the mouth of the Rio Grande
was not meant to be blockaded. We at times bad cruisers
at its mouth, but they did not assert a right to blockade a
3 Robinson, 217.
t Id. 126.
11 Acton, 26.
And see the Jonge Margaretha, 1 Robinson, 189; The Mercurius, Id. 288
and note; The Jonge Tobias, Id. 329; The Neptunus, 3 Id. 108; The Eenrom,
2 Id. 1; The Edward, 4 Id. 68; The Oster Risoer, Id. 200; The Carolina,
Id. 260; The Richmond, 5 Id. 325; The Charlotte, Id. 276; The Ringende
Jacob, 1 Id. 89; Carrington v. The Merchants' Insurance Co., 8 Peters, 620.

Dec. 1866.]

8Tim
PETERHOFF.
Argument for the claimants.

river which was one-half Mexican. As hereafter stated.
vessels almost daily cleared from Northern ports, with the
acquiescence of the government, for the port of Matamoras.
2. Because, if it had been blpekaded, the blockade would
have been void; our government having had no right to
prevent trade by neutrals with Mexico; not even with those
ports separated from us by a boundary river. None of the
cases cited are adjudicalions of the p6int. The Zelden Rust
is not so, for both the ports there of Corunna and Ferrol
were enemy's ports, and the question was whether the cargo
was contraband.*
Upon principle, we insist that the courts of the United
States will not add new restrictions to neutral trade.
It is argued that the real destination of the cargo was
Texas, through Matamoras. This is not clear; the cargo
having been suited for Mexico while at-war with France as
much as for our Southwestern States, then in insurrection
against the National government. But if the destination
were as alleged, it would be after a sale at Matamoras and
an incorporation into the sto lf of commerce. The. law laid
down in The Bermuda would protect, not condemn, this. But
the voyage of that ship was so different from that of the
Peterhoff that the decision in The _Bermuda does not apply.
, Whatever might be the law on the case as existing elsewhere or under other circumstances, is not our government
estopped from capture and condemnation here? As a matter
of fact it may be stated that between the 1st November,
1862, and the date of this capture, fifty-nine vessels with
cargoes have cleared from the port of New York alone to
the port of Matamoras [the dates were given], under the
sanction of the Treasury Department and the custom-house
officers. This commerce was permitted to go on certainly
from the city of New York, and we suppose from other seaports of note in the Northern States. Our own country and
other countries have participated in it without hindrance
alike; and having done so in a manner that gave notice to
See the Frau Margaretha, 6 Robinson, 92; The Jonge Pieter, 4 Id. 79.

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Qt.

Argument for the claimants.

the world that this course of commerce was free, how can
our government set up the right of capture ? In truth the
government has been placed in an awkward position by the
act of the naval forces now under consideration, and its law
officers will add to the awkwardness of its position by endeavoring to justify the captors; a thing impossible, we
think, when the controlling circumstances of the case are
considered.
The state of commercial thingsjust alluded to was brought
to the attention of the President and War Department
during the war, by the Union refugees of Texas and others,
and the necessity of taking military possession of the left
bank of the Rio Grande, with a view of cutting off this
trade, urged upon the government. But for reasons of public
policy the trade was not cut off. The government desired,
perhaps, to alleviate the "cotton famine" in England and
France, and so to take away from those countries one excuse for their threatened "intervention" in behalf of our
Southern States. Whatever was the reason, it was a satisfactory one to our gov.ernir1eji 4t the time.
Finally, giving up the correctness of a condemnation in
toto, it is argued that the vessel and parts of the cargo should
be condemned.
(a) An argument is made that some part of the cargo
was contraband.
The mere fact that contraband of war imported into Mexico
for trade there might be again sold, and so come to the use
of the belligerent, would have no effect upon the question
at issue. It is trade with the belligerent in contraband that
subjects to capture. Trade between neutrals in contraband
of war is legitimate, although they both know or believe that,
eventually, the contraband may be sold to the belligerent.
This was admitted even in The .Bermuda.*
Of course it is not pretended that the concealment of thc
See also The Commercon, 1 Wheaton, 882, 888-9; The Ocean, F Robin
son, 297; The Jonge Pieter, 4 Id 79; Treaty with Great Britain, 17 A,
Art. 18, 8 Stat. at Large, 125.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

PETERHOFF.

47

Argument for the claimants.

real destination by the interposition of a simulated one would
protect the trade, where the real destinationwas the belligerent port or the enemy's army.
But how much contraband was there? for the contraband
nust be in considerable quantities to make an offence.* The
"Blucher boots" are formidable features at first view. But
every one acquainted with the habits of the people of Mexico,
and especially of those much in the saddle, is aware of the
extensive use of what are here thus called. In travelling
over a country where there are neither ferries nor bridges,
every man's horse is his means of transit, and in fording
and swimming streams this sort of boots is used.as a protection to the limbs and feet. So as to the supposed military
blankets. In a country where nearly the whole travelling
is done on horseback, a horse and saddle, a lariat at the
saddle-bow, and a pair of blankets behind, are the traveller's equipment
These blankets are his shelter from the
storm, and whether in the cabin or on the prairie, with his
saddle for a pillow, they make his bed for the night.
But what is contraband by the law of nations as recognized
and insisted by the government of the United States? This
appears by reference to the various treaties and state papers.t
In view of the law of nations as settled by the authorities
cited in the note, there was nothing contraband on board
but the artillery harness.
if it were proved that any contraband on board was designed directly for the rebels, thatwould not subject to condemnation either the ship or the rest of the cargo.J:
Wheaton's International Law, 565; The Atalanta, 6 Robinson; 440, 455;
Hazlett's Manual, &c., 222.
I- Treaty with Great Britain of 1794, Art. 18, 8 Stat. at Large, 125; see)
also, Mr. Pickering, Secretary of State, to Mr. Pinckney, at Paris, June 12th,
1797, 2 Elliot's Diplomatic Code, 524-5. Mr. Pickering, Secretary of State,
to Mr. Monroe, Minister tit Paris, September 12th, 1795, 1 A merican State
Papers, 596-7. Mr. Pickering to Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall, and Gerry,
Ministers to French Republic, July 15th, 1797, 2 Id. 153-4. Messrs. Pincknay, Marshall and Gerry to the French Ministers, 27th January, 1798, Id.
169, 174, 175.
1 Wheaton's International Law, 567-8; 1 Kent's Com. 142, 143 (margin)

48

THu PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

Trade in contraband, even with the enemy, is legitimate:
it only subjects the contraband to condemnation and the
ship to loss of freight.*
(b)_Redgate's former residence in Texas. This cannot subject his portion of the cargo to condemnation even under the
too hard rule set up. Ie no longer resided in Texas, and
the case is not within the rule, nor the reason of the rule
stated in the case cited.
(e) As to the vessel.
1. The refusal of Captain Jarman, if he did refuse, to go
on board the Vanderbilt, giving as a reason that he was "in
charge of her Majesty's mails," and offering also the papers
and ship for search, was no resistance of the '' right of search
to subject the ship or cargo to condemnation.
The Maria, relied upon by the other side, is no ,athority
for so tyrannical a right; that was a ease of absolute resistance to search.
2. Spoliation of papers is in itself no ground for condemnation.t It is only evidence, more or less convincing accordNig to the circumstances of the case and the character )f
the papers destroyed, of the existence of some other gr( and
for condemnation, such as a purpose to break blockade, or
the carrying of contraband, to the enemy. In the present
case, apparently, no papers were destroyed, nothing was
thrown over but a packet believed by the master to contain
powder brought on board by a passenger without the master's
knowledge or consent. The passenger bad no interest in
the ship or cargo, and he was permitted l)y the captors without the consent of the claimants, to depaTt and go where he
pleased, without being examined as a witness. Had he been
examined he would in all probability have proved it to have
contained white powder as he alleged it to contain. The
throwing overboard of the packet was an unwise act. That
is all.
And there is no evidence that the owners of the ship

-

The Sanltissima Trinidad, 7 Wheaton, 283.
The Pizarro, 2 Wheaton, 227.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETERHOFF.
Opinion of the court.

came within the cases cited of parties "who lent themselves
as an instrument of fraud in the hands of the enemy."
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is of much interest. It was very thoroug~ily
argued, and has been attentively considered.
The Peterhoff was captured near the island of St. Thomas,
in the West Indies, on the 25th of February, 18G3, by the
United States Steamship Vanderbilt. She was fully documented as a British merchant steamer, bound from London
to Matamoras, in Mexico, but was seized, without question
of her neutral nationality, upon suspicion that her real destination was to the blockaded coast of-the States in rebellion, and that her cargo consisted, in part, of contraband
goods.
The evidence in the record satisfies us that the voyage of
the Peterhoff was not simulated. She was in the proper
course of a voyage from London to Matamoras. 11er manifest, shipping list, clearance, and other custom-house papers,
all show an intended voyage from the one port to the other.
And the preparatory testimony fully corroborates the documentary evidence.
Nor have we been able to find anything in the record
which fairly warrants a belief that the cargo had any other
direct destination. All the bills of lading show shipments
to be delivered off the mouth of the Rio Grande, into lighters, for Matamoras. And this was in the usual course of
trade. Matanioras lies on the Rio Grande forty miles above
its mouth; and the Peterhoff's draught of water would not
allow her to enter the river. She could complete her voyage, therefore, in no other way than by the delivery of her
cargo into lighters fbr conveyance to the port of destination.
It is true that, by these lighters, some of the cargo might be
conveyed directly.to the blockaded coasts but there is no
evidebce which warrants us in saying that such conveyance
was intended by the master or the shippers.
We dismiss, therefore, from consideration, the claim, suggested rather than urged in behalf of the government, that
VOL

Y

4

50

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the ship and cargo, both or either, were destined for the
blockaded coast.
But it was maintained in argument (1) that trade with
Matamoras, at the time of the capture, was made unlawful
by the blockade of the mouth of the Rio Grande; and if not,
then (2) that the ulterior destination of the cargo was Texas
and the other States in rebellion, and that this ulterior destination was in breach of the blockade.
We agree that, so far as liability for infringement of blockade is concerned, ship and cargo must share the same fate.
The owners of the former were owners also of part of the
latter; the adventure was common; the destination of the
cargo, ulterior as well as direct, was known to the owners
of the ship, and the voyage was undertaken to promote the
objects of the shippers. There is nothing in this case as in
that of the Springbok to distinguish between the liability of
the ship and that of the merchandise it conveyed.
We proceed to inquire, therefore, whether the mouth of
the Rio Grande was, in fact, included in the blockade of the
rebel coast ?
It must be premised that no paper or constructive blockade is allowed by international law. When such blockades
have been attempted by other nations, the United States
have ever protested against them and denied their validity.
Their illegality is now confessed on all hands. It was
solemnly proclaimed in the Declaration of Paris of 1856, to
which most of the civilized nations of the world have since
adhered; and this principle is nowhere more fully recognized
than in our own country, though not a party to that dec.
laration.
What then was the blockade of the rebel States? The
President's proclamation of the 19th April, 1862, declared
the intention of the government " to set on foot a blockade
of the ports" of those States, "by posting a competent force
so as to prevent the entrance or exit of vessels."* And, in
explanation of this proclamation, foreign governments were
12 Stat. at Large, 1259.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETE R1OFF.
Opinion of the court.

informed "that it was intended to blockade the whole coast
from the Chesapeake Bay to the Rio Grande."*
In determininIg the question whether this blockade was
intended to include the mouth of the Rio Grande, the treaty
with Mexico,t in relation to that river, must be considered.
It was stipulated in the 5th article that the boundary line
between the United States and Mexico should commence in
the Gulf, three leagues from land opposite the mouth of the
Rio Grande, and run northward with the middle of the river.
And in the 7th article it was further stipulated that the navigation of the river should be free and common to the citizens of both countries without interruption by either without
the consent of the other, even for the purpose of improving
the navigation.
The mouth of the Rio%Grande was, therefore, for half its
width, within Mexican territory, and, for the purposes of
navigation, was, altogether, as much Mexican as American.
It is clear, therefore, that nothing short of an express declaration by the Executive would warrant us in ascribing to
the government an intention to blockade such a river in time
of peace between the two Republics.
It is supposed that such a declaration is contained in the
President's proclamation of February 18th, 1864,.l which
recites as matter of fact that the port of Brownsville had
been blockaded, and declares the relaxation of the blockade.
The argument is that Brownsville is situated on the Texan
bank of the Rio Grande, opposite Matamoras; and that the
recital in the proclamation that Brownsville had been blockaded must therefore be regarded as equivalent to an assertion that the mouth of the river was included in the blockade of the coast. It would be difficult to avoid this inference if Brownsville could only be blockaded by the blockade
of the river. But that town may be blockaded also by the
blockade of the harbor of Brazos Santiago and the Boca
Chica, which were, without question, included in the block
Lawrence's Wheaton, 829, n.
$ 13 Stat. at Large, 740.

t 9 Stat. at Large, 926.

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

ade of the coast. Indeed, until within a year prior to the
proclamation, the port of entry for the district was not
Brownsville, but Point Isabel on that harbor; and, in the
usual course, merchandise intended for Brownsville was
entered at Point Isabel, and taken by a short land conveyance to its destination.
We know of no judicial precedent for extending a blockade by construction. But there are precedents of great
authority the other way. We will cite one.
The Fran Ilsabe* and her cargo were captured in 1799 for
breach of the British blockade of Holland. The voyage
was from Hamburg to Antwerp, and, of course, in its latter
part,, up the Scheldt. Condemnation of the cargo-was asked
on the ground that the Scheldt was blockaded by the blockade of Holland. But Sir W. Scott said, " Antwerp is certainly no part of Holland, and, with respect to the Scheldt,
it is not within the Dutch territory, but rather a coterminous river, dividing Holland from the adjacent country."
This case is the more remarkable inasmuch as Antwerp is
on the right bank of the river, as is also the whole territory
of Holland; and, though no part of that country was part
of Flanders, then equally with Holland combined with
*Francein a war with Great Britain. " It was just as lawful," as Sir W. Scott observed, "to blockade the port of
Flanders as those of Holland,"-and the Scheldt might have
been included in the blockade, but he would not hold it necessarily included in the absence of anl express declaration.
This case seems to be in point.
It is impossible to say, therefore, in the absence of an express declaration to that effect, that it was the intention of
the government to blockade the mouth of the Rio Grande.
And we are the less inclined to say it, because we are not
aware of any instance in which a belligerent has attempted
to blockade the mouth of a river or harbor occupied on one
side by neutrals, or in which such a blockade has been rec.
ognized as valid by any court administering the law of
nations.
* 4 Robinson, 63.

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETFRHOFF.

Opinion of the court.

The only case which lends even apparent countenance to
such a doctrine, is that of The Maria,* adjudged by Sir W.
Scott in 1805. The cargo in litigation had been conveyed
from Bremen, through the Weser to Varel, near the mouth
of the Jabde, and there transshipped for America. The
mouth of the Weser was then blockaded, and Sir W. Scott
held, that the commerce of Bremen, though neutral, could
not be carried on through the Weser. This, he admitted,
was a great inconvenience to the neutral city, which had no
other outlet to the sea; but it was an incident of her situation and of war. It happened in that case that a relaxation
of the blockadein favor of Bremen warranted restitution.
Otherwise there ean be no doubt that the cargo would have
been reluctantly condemned.
But it is an error to suppose this case an authority for an
American blockade of the Rio Grande, afieting the commerce of Matamoras. Counsel were mistaken in the supposition that only one bank of the Weser was occupied by
the French, and that Bremen was on the other. Both banks
were in fact so held, and the blockade was warranted by the
hostile possession of both. The case would be in point had
both banks of the Rio Grande been in rebel occupation.
Still less applicable to the present litigation is the case of
The Zelden -Rusi, cited at the bar. That was not a case of
violation of blockade at all. It was a question of contraband,
depending on destination. The Zelden Rust, a neutral vessel, entered the Bay or River De Betancos, on one side of
which was Ferrol, and on the other Corunna. Counsel argued on the supposition that Ferrol was a belligerent and
Corunna a neutral port, whereas both were belligerent; and
the cargo was condemned on the ground of actual or probable destination to Ferrol, which was a port of naval equipment; though nominally destined to Corunna, also a port
of naval equipment, though not to the same extent as Ferrol.
There was no blockade of the bay or river or of either town.
It is unnecessary to examine other cases referred to by
* 6 Robinson, 201.

54

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

counsel. It is sufficient to say that none of them support
the doctrinle tlht a belligerent can blockade the mouth of a
river, occupied on one bank by neutrals with complete rights
of navigation.
We have no hesitation, therefore, in holding that the
mouth of the Rio Grande was not included in the blockade
of the ports of the rebel States, and that neutral commerce
.with Matamoras, except in contraband, was entirely free.
If we had any doubt upon the subject, it would be, removed by the fact that it was the known and constant practice of the government to grant .clearances for Matamoras
from New York, on condition' of giving bond that no supplies should be furnished to the rebels-a condition necessarily municipal in its nature and inapplicable to any clearance for a foreign. port. These clearances are incompatible
with the existence of the supposed blockade.
We come next to the question whether an ulterior destination to the rebel region, which we now assume as proved,
affected the cargo of the Peterhoff with liability to condenmation. We mean the neutral cargo; reserving for the
present the question of contraband, and questions arising
upon citizenship or nationality of shippers.
It is an undoubted general principle, recognized by this
court in the case of The Bermuda, and in several other cases,
that an ulterior destination to a blockaded port will infect
the primary voyage to a neutral port with liability for intended violation of blockade.
The question now is whether the same consequence will
attend an ulterior destination to a belligerent country by inland conveyance. And upon 'this question the authorities
seem quite clear.
During the blockade of Holland in 1799, goods belonging
to Prussian subjects were shipped from Edam, near Amsterdam, by inlaind navigation to Emden, in Hanover, for transshipment to London. Prassia and Hanover were neutral.
The gdods were captured on the voyage from Emden, and
the cause* came before the British Court of Admiralty in
The Stert, 4 Robinson, 65.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

66

PETERHOFF.

Opinion of the court.

1801. It was held that the blockade did not affect the trade
of Holland carried on with neutrals by means of inland
navigation. "It was," said Sir William Scott, "a mere
maritime blockade effected by force operating only at sea."
He admitted that such trade would defeat, partially at least,
the object of the blockade, namely, to cripple the trade of
Holland, but observed, "If that is the consequence, all that
can be said is that it is an unavoidable consequence. It
must be imputed to the nature of the thing which will not
admit a remedy of this species. The court cannot on that
ground take upon itself to say that a legal blockade exists
where no actual blockade can be applied .....
.It must be
presumed that this was foreseen by the blockading state,
which, nevertheless, thought proper to impose it to the extent to which it was practicable."
The same principle governed the decision in the case of
The Ocean,* made also in 1801. At the time of her voyage
Amsterdam was blockaded, but the blockade had not been
extended to the other ports of Holland. Her cargo consisted partly or wholly of goods ordered by American merchants from Amsterdam, and sent thence by inland conveyance to Rotterdam, and there shipped to America. It was
held thatthe conveyance from Amsterdam to Rotterdam,
being inland, was not affected by the blockade, and the
goods, which had been captured, were restored.
These were cases of trade from a blockaded to a neutral
country, by means of inland navigation, to a neutral port or
a port not blockaded. The same principle was applied to
trade from a neutral to a blockaded country by inland conveyance from the neutral port of primary destination to the
blockaded port of ulterior destination in the case of the
Jonge Picter,t adjudged in 1801. Goods belonging to neutrals going from London to Emden, with ulterior destination
by land or an interior canal navigation to Anisterdam, were
held not liable to seizure for violation of the blockade of
that port. The particular goods in that instance were con.
* The Stert, 3 Robinson, 297.

t 4 Id. 79.

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

demned upon evidence that they did not in fact belong tc
neutrals, but to British merchants, engaged in unlawful
trade with the enemy; but the principle just stated was ex-.
plicitly affirmed.
These cases fully recognize the lawfulness of neutral trade
to or from a blockaded country by inland navigation or
transportation. They assert principles without disregard of
which it is impossible to hold that inland trade from Matamoras, in Mexico, to Brownsville or Galveston, in Texas, or
from Brownsville or Galveston to Matamoras, was affected
by the blockade of the Texan coast.
And the general doctrines of international law lead irresistibly to the same conclusion. We know of but two exceptions to the rule of free trade by neutrals with belligerents: the first is that there must be noviolation of blockade
or siege; and the second, that there must be no conveyance
of contraband to either belligerent. And the question we
are now considering is, " Was the cargo of the Peterhoff
within the first of these exceptions?" We have seen that
Matamoras was not and could not be blockaded; and it is
manifest that there was not and could not be any blockade
of the Texan bank of the Rio Grande as against the trade
of Matamoras. No blockading vessel was in the river; nor
could any such vessel ascend the river, unless supported by
a competent military force on land.
The doctrine of The Bermuda case, supposed by counsel
to have an important application to that before us, has, in
rbality, no application at all. There is an obvious and broad
line of distinction between the cases. The Bermuda and her
cargo were condemned because engaged in a voyage ostensibly for a neutral, but in reality either directly or by substitution of another vessel, for a blockaded port. The Peterhoff
was destined for a neutral portwith no ulterior destination
for the ship, or none by sea for the cargo to any blockaded
place. In the case of the Bermuda, the cargo destined primarily for Nassau could not reach its ulterior destination
without violating the blockade of the rebel ports; in the
case before us the cargo, destined primarily for Matamoras,

Dec. 1866.]

THE PETERHtOFF.
Opinion of the court.

could reach an ulterior destination in Texas without violating
any blockade at all.
We must say, therefore, that trade, between London and
Matamoras, even with intent to supply, from Matamoras,
goods to Texas, violated no blockade, and cannot be declared
unlawful.
Trade with a neutral port in immediate proximity to the
territory of one belligerent, is certainly very inconvenient
to the other. Such trade, with unrestricted inland commerce between such a port anl the enemy's territoi'y, impairs undoubtedly and very seriously impairs the value of a
blockade of the enemy's coast. But in cases such as that
now in judgment, we administer the public law of nations,
and are not at liberty to inquire what is for the particular
advantage or disadvantage of our own or another country.
We must follow the lights of reason and the lessons of the
masters of international jurisprudence.
The remedy for inconveniences of the sort just mentioned
is with the political department of the government. In the
particular instance before us, the Texan bank of the Rio
Grande might have been occupied by the national forces;
or with the consent of Mexico, military possession might
have been taken of Matamoras and the Mexican bank below. In either course Texan trade might have been entirely
cut off. Sufficient reasons, doubtless, prevailed against the
adoption of either. The inconvenience of either, at the
time, was doubtless supposed to outweigh any advantage
that might be expected from the interruption of the trade.
What has been said sufficiently indicates our judgment
that the ship and cargo are free from liability for violation
of blockade.
We come then to other questions.
Thus far we have not thought it necessary to discuss the
question of actual destination beyond Matamoras. Nor need
we now say more upon that general question than that we
think it a fair conclusion from the whole evidence that the
cargo was to be disposed of in Mexico or Texas as might be
found most convenient and profitable to the owners and

58

Tim PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

consignees, who were either at Matamoras or on board the
ship. Destination in this case becomes specially important
only in connectiQn with the question of contraband.
And this brings us to the question: Was any portion of
the cargo of the Peterhoff contraband ?
The classification of goods as contraband or not contraband has much perplexed text writers and jurists. A strictly
accurate and satisfactory classification is perhaps impracticable;, but that which is best supported by American and
English decisions may be said to divide all merchandise into
three classes. Of these classes, the first consists of articles
manufactured and primarily and ordinarily used for military
purposes in time of war; the second, of articles which may
be and are used for purposes of war or peace, according to
circumstances; and the third, of articles exclusively used
for peaceful purposes.* Merchandise of the first class, destined to a, belligerent country or places occupied by the
army or navy of a belligerent, is always contraband; merchandise of the second class is contraband only when actually
destined to the military or naval use of a belligerent; while
merchandise of the third class is not contraband at all,
though liable to seizure and condemnation for violation of
blockade or siege.
A considerable portion of the cargo .of the Peterhoff was
of the third class, and need not be further referred to. A
large portion, perhaps, was of the second class, but is not
proved, as we think, to have been actually destined to belligerent use, and cannot therefore be treated as contraband.
Another portion was, in our judgment, of the first class, or
if of the second, destined directly to the rebel military service. This portion of the cargo consisted of the cases of
artillery harness, and of articles described in the invoices as
" men's army bluchers," " artillery boots," and "government regulation gray blankets." These goods come fairly
under the description of goods primarily and ordinarily used
* Lawrence's Wheaton, 772-6, note; The Commercen, 1 Wheaton, 882;
Dana's Wheaton, 629, note; Parsons' Mar. Law, 93-4.

Dec. 1866.]

THE :PETERHOFF.
Opinion of the court.

for military purposes in time of war. They make part of
the necessary equipment of an army.
It is true that even these goods, if really intended for sale
in the market of Matamoras, would be free of liability : for
contraband may be transported by neutrals to a neutral port,
if intended to make part of its general stock in trade. But
there is nothing in the case which tends to convince us that
such was their real destination, while all the circumstances
indicate that these articles, at least, were destined for the
use of the rebel forces then occupying Brownsville, and
other places in the vicinity.
And contraband merchandise is subject to a different iule
in respect to ulterior destination than that which applies to
merchandise not contraband. The latter is liable to capture
only when a violation of blockade is intended; the former
when destined to the hostile country, or to the actual military or naval use of the enemy, whether blockaded or not.
The trade of neutrals with belligerents in articles not contraband is absolutely free unless interrupted by blockade;
the conveyance by neutrals to belligerents of contraband
articles is always unlawful, and such articles may always be
seized during transit by sea. Hence, while articles, not
contraband, might be sent to Matamoras and beyond to the
rebel region, where the communications were not interrupted
by blockade, articles of a contraband character, destined in
fact to a State in rebellion, or for the use of the rebel military forces, were liable to capture though primarily destined
to Matamoras.
We are obliged to conclude that the portion of the cargo
which we have characterized as contraband must be condem ned.
And it is an established rule that the part of the cargo
belonging to the same owner as the contraband portion must
share its -fate.. This rule is well stated by Chancellor Kent,
thus: " Contraband articles are infectious, as it is called,
and contaminate the whole cargo belonging to the same
owners, and the invoice of any particular article is not usu
ally admitted to exempt it from general confiscation."

THn. PE TER11OFF.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

So much of the cargo of the Peterhoff, therefore, as actually belongad to the owner of the artillery harness, and the
other contraband goods, must be also condemned.
Two other questions remain to be disposed of.
The first of these relates to the political status of Redgate,
one of the owners of the cargo. It was insisted, in the argument for the gov'ernment, that this person was an enemy,
and that the merchandise owned by him was liable to capture and confiscation as enemy's property.
It appears that he was by birth an Englishman; that he
became a citizen of the United States; that he resided in
Texas at the outbreak of the rebellion; made his escape;
became a resident of Matamoras; had been engaged in trade
there, not wholly confined, probably, to Mexico; and was
on his return from England with a large quantity of goods,
only a small part of which, however, was his own propev'ty,
with the intention of establishing a mercantile house in that
place.
It has been held, by this court, that persons residing in
the rebel States at any time during the civil war must be
considered as enemies, during such residence, without regard to their personal sentiments or dispositions.*
But this has never held in respect to persons faithful tc
the Union, who have escaped from those States, and have
subsequently resided in the loyal States, or in neutral countries. Such citizens of the United States lost no rights as
citizens by reason of temporary and constrained residence
in the rebellious portion of the country.
And to this class Redgate seems to have belonged. He
cannot, therefore, be regarded as an enemy. If his property
was liable to seizure at all on account of his political character, it was as property of a citizen of the United States, proceeding to a State in insurrection. But we see no sufficient
ground for distinguishing that portion of the cargo owned
by him, as to destination, from any other portion.
* Prize Cases, 2 Black, 666, 687-8;
Alexander's Cctton, Id. 404.

The Venice, 2 Wallace, 258; Mrs.

Dec. 1866.]

Tin, PETERHOFF .
Opinion of the court.

The other question relates to costs and expenses.
Formerly conveyance of contraband subjected the ship to
forfeiture; but in more modern times, that consequence, in
ordinary cases, attaches only to the freight of the contraband merchandise. That consequence only attaches in the
present case.
But the fact of such conveyance may be properly taken
into consideration, with other circumstances, in determining
the question, of costs and expenses.
It was the duty of the captain of the Peterhoff, when
brought to by the Vanderbilt, to send his papers on board,
if required. He refused to do so. The circumnstances might
well excite suspicion. The captain of a merchant steamer
like the Peterhoff is not privileged from search by the fact
that he has a government mail on board; on the contrary
he is bound by that circumstance to strict performance of
neutral duties and to special respect for belligerent rights.
The search led to the belief on the part of the officers of
the Vanderbilt that there was contraband on board, destined
to the enemy. This belief, it is now apparent, was warranted. It was therefore the duty of the captors to bring
the Peterhoff in for adjudication, and clearly they are not
liable for the costs and expenses of doing so.
On the other hand, not only was the captain in the wrong
in the refusal just mentioned, but it apptars that papers
were destroyed on board his ship at the time of capture.
Some papers were burned by a passenger named Mohl, or
by his directions. A package was also thrown overboard by
direction of 'the captain. This package is variously described
by the witnesses as a heavy sealed pa~kage wrapped in loose
paper; as a box of papers; and as a packet of despatches
sealed up in canvas and weighted with lead. By the captain it is represented as a package belonging to Mohl, and
containing a white powder. We are unable to credit this
representation. It is highly improbable Ilmat, under the circumstances described by the captain, he would have thrown
any package overboard at such a time, and with the plain
intent of concealiig it from the captors, if it cQnta'ned

UNITED STATES V.

WEED.

[Sup. (Jt,

Statement of the chtse

nothing likely, in his opinion, to prejudice the case of the
ship and cargo.
We must say that his conduct was inconsistent with the
frankness and good faith to which neutrals, engaged in a
commerce open to great suspicion, are most strongly bound.
Considering the other facts in the case, however, and the
almost certain destination of the ship to a neutral port, with
a cargo, for the most part, neutral in character and destination, we shall not extend the effect of this conduct of the
captain .to condemnation, but we shall decree payment of
costs and expenses by the ship as a condition of restitution.
)EDRFEE ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. WEED ET AL.
1. When the record presents a case in this court which has been prosecuted
exclusively as prize, the property cannot be here condemned as for a
statutory forfeiture.
2. When the record presents a case prosecuted below on the instance side
of the court, for forfeiture under a statute, it cannot here be condemned
as prize.

8. In either of these cases, if the facts disclosed in the record justify it, the
case will be remanded to the court below for a new libel, and proper
proceeding according to the true nature of the case.
4. In the present case, which was prosecuted as prize of war exclusively,

the facts did not prove a case of prize, nor did they show a probable
case of violation of any statutes. A decree of the court below dismisking the libel and restoring the property was therefore affirmed.
b. Permitq granted during the late rebellion by the proper licensing agents
to purchase goods in a certain locality, are primdfacie evidence that the
locality is properlv within the trade regulations of that department.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for

the Eastern District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
On the 15th of April, 1864, the steamer A. G. Brown was
hoarded in the Atchafalaya River, while on her way tc
Brashear City, by the United States gunboat Wyanza, Cap.

