Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.

119

Statement of the case.

STANLEY V. COLT.
1. Whether words in a devise constitute common law conditions annexed to
an estate, a breach of which or any one of which, will work a forfeiture,
defeat the devise, and let in the heirs, or whether they are regulations
for the management of the estate, and explanatory of the terms under
which it was intended to have it managed, is a matter to be gathered,
not from a particular expression in the devise, but from the whole in.
strument.
2. The word Provided, though an appropriate word to constitute a common
law condition, does not invariably and of necessity do so. On the contrary, it may give way to the intent of the party as gathered from an
examination of the whole instrument, and be taken as expressing a limitation in trust.
Ex. Gr. Where a testator devised real estate to an ecclesiastical society for
its use or benefit : "Provided, that said real estate be not hereafter gold
or disposed of," and in connection-'and continuation added numerous
minute directions in the nature of regulations for the guidance of trustees whom he appointed to manage it, and with a view to the greatebt
advantage of the SocietyHeld, that the latter, being to be regarded as mere limitations in trust, the
former was a limitation in trust also; not a common law condition.
8. Where, under a will, in some respects peculiar, a devise was made to a
society for its use and, benefit, but the possession, superintendence, and
direction of the estate, and the letting, leasing, and management of the
same, was given to trustees who were invested with power to perpetuate
their authority indefinitely-the only active duties of the society being
to receive the rents and profits for its use and benefitHeld, that the legal estate was in the trustees, not in the society.
4. The legislature of Connecticut has tfJpowers of an English court of chancery to direct a sale of real estate devised to charitable purposes-even
though it be provided by the devise, that.the estate shall never be soldin cases where lapse of time, or changes in the condition of the property,
or circumstances attending it, make it prudent and beneficial to the charity, to alien the specific land, and invest the proceeds in other securities;
taking care, however, that no diversion of the gift be permitted.
5. Where the legislature, setting out reasons at large for the exercise of such
a power, directs a sale of land so devised, and provides for the secure
reinvestment of the proceeds to the same uses as directed by the will as
to the estate sold, this court cannot revise the facts upon which the legislature has exercised the power.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut,
the case being this:
From the year 1702 or earlier, and down to the year 1818,
ERROR

STANLEY V. COLT.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and afterwa:rds, with some unimportant alterations, there ex0ied and was in force in Connecticut a statute thus:
"That all such! lands, tenements, hereditaments, and other
estates, that either formerly have been, or hereafter shall be,
given and granted, either by the General Assembly of this Colony
or by any town, village, or particular person or persons, for the
maintenance of the ministry of the Gospel in any part of this
Colony, or schools of learning, or for the relief of poor people, or
for any other public and charitable use, shall forever remain
and be continued to the use or uses to which such lands, teneaents, hereditaments, or other estates, have been, or shall be,
given and granted, according to the true intent and meaning pf
the grantors, and to no other use whatsoever; and also be exempted out of the general lists of estates, and free from the payment of rates."
This act being thus in force, William Stanley, of Hartford,
Connecticut, in October, 1786, made his will in the material
parts as follows:
"Imprimis. I give and bequeath unto the Second Church of
Christ, in Hlartford, such sum, to be paid out of the profits or
rents of my real estate as' hereafter mentioned, as shall be
necessary to purchase a silver tankard of.the same weight and
dimensions, as near as conveniently may be, of that one formerly given said church by Xr. John Ellery, deceased;, the
same to be procured by my trustees, hereafter named, and presented to the officers of said church, to be kept forever for the
use and benefit of said church, and my said trustees are to cause
my name, coat of arms, the time of my death and my age, thereon
to be engraved.
"Item. I give and devise unto my niece, Elizabeth Whitman,
one piece of land, &c,, also one other piece of land lying, &c.,
and is part of the far'm that formerly belonged unto my honored
father, Colonel Nathaniel Stanley, deceased, and lies in the south!ast corner of said farm, and butts on a highway, unto the said
Elizabeth, and to her heirs and assigns forever, provided she
hall'not make any claim upon my estate for any services done
r me.
"Iten. I do also give and devise unto my sister Abigail the

Depa. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Statement of the case.

use and improvement of all my real estate (except that part
thereof given unto her daughter Elizabeth) during her natural
life, with this reserve, that she shall not cut any of the trees
growing in that lot called gRocky Hill lot.
"Item. After the decease of my said sister, Abigail Whitman,
I give and devise the whole of my real estate, of every kind and
description, except which is hereinbefbre given unto my niece,
Elizabeth Whitman, unto the Second or South Ecclesiastical
Society, in the town of Hartford, to be and remain to the use
and benefit of said Second or South Society and their successors
forever; PROVIDED that said real estate be not ever hereafter solo
or disposed of, but the same be leased or left, and the annual rents
or profits thereof applied, to the use and benefit of said Society,
and the letting, leasing, and managing of said estate to be under
the management and direction of certain trustees hereafter named
by me, and their successors to be appointed in manner as hereafter directed. And it is my will that the first rents, profits, or
avails issuing from said real estate shall, by my trustees after it
comes to their possession, be applied to the purchasing of the
aforesaid tankard. And it is my will that so much of the rents,
profits, or avails next issuing, out of my real estate, my said
trustees shall reserve in their own hands as shall be sufficient to
purchase and pay for the one-half part of the price of a proper
bell for the meeting-house in said Second Society, of the same
we,ight and dimensions of that in the North Meeting-House, i1'
said town of Hartford, and be applied by my said trustees for
that purpose; provided that the other part be procured by subscription or otherwise without taxing the inhabitants of said
society; and in case said Second Society shall ever hereafter be
divided, it is my will that my said real estate be not divided, but
remain entire and forever to the said Second Society, and such
part of said society as shall hereaftcer secede or be divided therefrom are hereby excluded from all the use and benefit of my said
estate so devised as aforesaid to said Second Society.
"And for the best management and direction of my said real
estate I do hereby appoint my friends, W. Ellery, &e., trustees to
superintend, direct, and manage said real estate fbr the use and
benefit of said Second Society in manner as above directed, and
unto them; my trustees, I do give authority and power to nomi.
nate their successors to said trust, which is to be done in the
manner and fbrm following, viz.: That 'immediately after roy

122

STANLEY V. COLT.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

decease, they shall nominate and appoint some meet person or
persons, as occasion may require, into said trust and offlce; so
be-it that at no time more than three persons shall act in said
trust or office or belong thereto at the same time. And all persons successors hereafter to said trust and office shall at all
times in future have like power to superintend, direct, and manage said estate for said society, and in like manner to nominate
and appoint their successors in said trust and office, and to per
petuate said trust for the benefit and use of said society as occasion may from time to time require. And the aforesaid real
estate or any part'thereof shall not be rented or let for a longer
term or lease than thirty years before the expiration of the same,
and said trustees and their successors shall have full power to
let and lease said estate, and to do all other legal acts for the well
ordering and management of said estate under the limitation and r,,
strictions as herein is before expressed."
The ecclesiastical society named-in the devise above quoted
was established by authority of the State of Connecticut for
the support of the Gospel ministry and the maintenance of
public worship, and with power, for that purpose, to hold
real estate.
After the death of Stanley and his sister Abigail, who
had the life-estate, and whose death occurred 'prior tv the
year 1800, it took possession of the premises, and down to
1852 the sdciety and trustees managed them in the -manner
diiected in the will, appropriAting the income frorm time to
time to the purposes of the society. During the whole time
the premises were untaxed, the only ground for the exemption being the provision in the act of 1702, quoted on p.
120. In the year.1852 the legislature of Connecticut, upon
the application of the society and of the trustees, passed a
resolution reciting a memorial by the church and trustees,
showing the will, possession of the land, &c.
"4Alsoshowing that~the said land has on it a great number of
buildings, owned by the tenants, built of wood, and in a decayed
state; that the land on which they stand has, by the lapse of
about three-fourths of a century, become valuable, some of.
which is in the central part ofithe city of Hartford,,and tor

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Statement of the case.

valuable to be improved profitably in any other way than by
the erection on them of permanent brick or stone blocks of
buildings; that the lessees cannot safely erect such buildings,
because of the uncertainty of their tenure, and because they
would thereby place themselves in the power of the owners,
and that the owners have not the means, and could not lawfully
contract debts for the purpose of building; that other parts of
the estate are subject to other embarrassments arieing from the
restrictions of the will, so that said property has become unproductive, and the income greatly reduced, and the object of' the
testator in devising the property to the society frustrated; that
those embarrassments, both to the owners and occupants, consequent on the restrictions in the will, are not likely to be removed, but will be increased by time, unless said land can be
sold and conveyed in fee simple, and the proceeds suitably invested.
"And praying the Assembly to authorize a sale and conveyance of said land, under such gulards and provisions as will secure the application of the proceeds according to the true intent
and meaning of said will, as per petition on file."
This legislative record thus proceeded:
"This Assembly having inquired into the facts stated in said
memorial, find the same to be true; and do further find that the
most valuable portion of said estate is situated in a central. part
of said city of Hartford, is covered with unsuitable wooden
buildings, and it is for the interest of the people of said city that
more useful and valuable buildings should be built thereon, and
do grant the prayer thereof; and it is therefore
"Resolved, That the said trustees and their successors, together
with D. F. :Robinson, as agent, shall have power, and they are
hereby authorized, to sell and convey the said lands in said memorial mentioned, and such parts oi-'proportions thereof as may
from time to time be advantageously sold, and to execute good
and sufficient deeds thereof in fee simple, with or without covenants of seizin and warranty, on the part of said society, sub.
ject to liens or incumbrances, if any shall lie upon said property,
&c. And the proceeds of such sales shall be, by the trustees and
agent, invested in good and. sufficient bonds and mortgages of
real estate, of double the value of the amount invested; and the
interest of said proceeds shall be paid over to the treasurer of

STANLEY

V.

COLT.

(Slip. Ct

Argument for the heirs.

said society, and shall be appropriated to the use of said society
in the same mannor, and subject to the same use, as the rents or
income of said property are by said will required to be appropriated, and for no other uses or purposes whatever. And all
mortgages or investments made as aforesaid from time to time,
and whenever such loans or investments shall be shifted or
changed, the securities shall be taken in the name of such trustees and their successors, and expressed to be for the use and
benefit of said society, according to the will of William Stanley,
deceased: Provided, however, That before any person or persons
shall proceed to make sale of said lands, or any part thereof, he
or they shall become bound; in a good and sufficient bond, to the
judge of probate for the district of Hartford, conditioned for the
faithfui performance of his duty in the premises; and said trustees shall also give the like bonds for the faithful performance
of their trust."
The heirs at law of Stanley had no notice of any of these
proceedings.
The trustees and agent accordingly, in August, 1852, by
deed reciting the legislative proceeding, and purporting to
be made in virtue of their said capacity of trustees and
agent, and of the powers conferred by the act, sold and
conveyed, with special warranty, to one Colt, "all the right,
title, and interest that said Second Ecclesiastical Society,
&c., have or ought to have in or to the above-described
tract of land," one of the tracts devised.
Colt having entered into possession, the heirs at law of
Stanley now brought ejectment against him for the premises. The court instructed the jury that on the case presented the defendant was entitled to their verdict; and judgment having gone accordingly, the case was now here on
error.
Messrs. W. i1. Evartsand C.E. Perkins,for the heirs at law:
The case is of general importance. A full argument will
be allowed.
Three questions arise:
I. Had the society power under the will itself, to sell and
convey this property-to Colt without incurring a forfeiture?

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the heirs.

II. If it had not such power under the will, was it enabled so to do by the act of the legislature of 1852 ?
III. If the society had no power to convey from either
source, what consequence results from its violation of the
condition of the devise ?
That the legal estate is in the church must, we suppose,
bA conceded. The devise is, in plain terms, to it in fee: "I
give and devise the whole of my estate. . . unto the Second or
South EcclesiasticalSociety ... to be and remain to the use
and benefit of said Second or South Society and their successors forever." No legal estate is given to the trustees.
They are but to "superintend, direct, and manage." This
is exactly what any mere agent of restricted powers would
do in regard to any estate, of which confessedly the fee
would be in his constituent. Mere directions to,one person
to superintend, direct, and even to manage, cannot carry to
him the legal estate given in plain, appropria'e, and even
technical terms to another in fee; even assuming that it
might do so, if the legal estate were left undisposed of;which we do not admit. Inference cannot control direct
expression. The trustees were to have no powers but what
were necessary to the office of supeorintc-ndence, direction,
and management of an estate that was ncver tb be "divided,"
but which was "to remain entire and foever to the said
Second Society." The legal estate then was given to the
church.
The heirs of Stanley say then:
I. The society, under the provisions of the will, could not
sell without violating the condition upon which'they held
the property, and thus incurring a forfeiture of their title.
Both by the obvious intent of the testator and by the legal
effect of the words used, this devise is of an estate upon condition subsequent, a breach of which destroys all right of
tle society in the property.
1. The will shows that the testator meant to deprive the
society of the power to sell. He meant that this property
should always remain in the hands of the society. He believed that the property would increase in value, and from

126

STANLEY V. COLT..

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the heirs.

a sure increasing fund would supply the society's increased
wants, while if the land was sold and the money invested,
the so'ciety would receive no larger amount a hundred years
thereafter, than at that day. Ile also desired that he should
bexremembered in connection with this society forever. Ile
had an obvious pride of family name and estate, and an attachment plainly to this particular Second or South Church.
He desires his "arms" and name to be put upon a sacramental tankard "to be kept forever." He leaves to his
niece a piece of land that belonged to his "honored father,
To his sister, he
Colonel Nathaniel Stanley, deceased."
leaves for life another piece, "but she shall not cut any of
the trees."
The bulk of the real estate he leaves in fee to the church,
separating the real estate from all power to manage it, and
giving neither to the devisee nor to the trustees a power to
sell the estate; but on the contrary, showing that he meant
it shorid never be sold or disintegrated. He looks forward
to the possibility of a division of the religious body, and
provides against any division of his estate from even that
cause; declaring that if the society should "ever hereafter" be
divided, his real estate left to the existing body should "be
not divided, but remain entire andforever to the said Second
Society."
The courts in Connecticut have held, that where land was
devised to an ecclesiastical society, the intent of the donor
s shown by that very act to be that it should not be sold.*
The means adopted by the testator to accomplish this intent, are the most effectual that could be conceived for his
purpose. le did not intrust the accomplishment of his object to the society, to the legislature, or even to courts of
equity. He determined to make it the interest of the society
and its members to use the gift as he directed, by causing a
'forfeiture to follow their misuse.
He used apt words to carry out this intention.
In construing wills, courts are governed by certain wellBrainard v. Colchester, 31 Connecticut, 411.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V.

COLT.

127

Argument for the heirs.

settled rules. One of these rules, the seventeenth in Mr.
Jarman's series, is :*
"Where a testator uses technical words, he is presumed to
employ them in their legal sense, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary."
The obligation of the rule is nowhere more recognized
than in Connecticut, where in Gold v. Judson,t the cotirt
say: "We are bound to suppose the testator used language
in its usual legal sense."
The word Provided is a technical word: its meaning has
been settled by innumerable decisions, and it has always been
held that a devise to A., provided he should or should notperform certain acts, is a devise upon a condition subsequent,
and the estate vests in A., subject to being divested if he does
or does not perform the acts specified.
This is the rule in Connecticut.
In Wright v. Tuttle,T Swift, J., says:
"There is no word more proper to import or express a con..
dition, than the word provided, and it shall always be so taken
unless it appear from the context to be the intent of the party
that it shall constitute a covenant."
These words were cited and approved in the subsequen~t
case of Rich v. Alwater,§ and in Wheeler v. Walker.I1
This decision is the more obligatory, as it has been affirmed by subsequent Connecticut decisions, and has, ever
since they were made, been considered as fixing the law in
the State of Connecticut on this subject.
The case at bar being in relation to the construction of a
will devising real estate, this court will govern itself by the
dlecisioins of Connecticut on this point.**
Jarman on Wills, vol. ii, p. 526 (side page 744).
t 21 Connecticut, 625.
: 4 Day, 826.
16 Connecticut, 419.
II 2 Id. 201.
Judd v. Bushnell, 7 Id. 205; Lloyd v. Holly, 8 Id. 491, and othora
* Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheaton, 167.

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the heirs.

But this construction of the word provided is not confined
to Connecticut; it has ahays been so held both in England
and this country from the earliest time.
Comyns, in his Digest,* says:
"Divers words of themselves make an estate upon condition, as
'sub conditione,' 'proviso semper,' and the word provi,3o makes a
condition, though joined with other words, as 'provided always

and it is covenanted,' 'provided and it is agreed,' and therefbre
if the word proviso be the speaking of the grantor and obliges
the grantee to any act, it makes a condition'in whatever part
of the deed it stands, and though there be covenants before and
after, it is not material."
This is in relation to deeds.

In relation to wills, he says: t

"So words in a will make a condition which will not make it
in a deed.

So a devise to A. provided, and my will is that he keep

it in repair, makes a condition; so there shall be a condition in
a will though there be no words that the estate shall cease, as a
devise to a wife, provided that she shall have a rent only if she departs out of London."
Similar decisions as to the effect of the word "provided
have been made in most if not all the States, and in England.
In Hooper v. Cummings, a case in MaineT the expression
was "provided they (the grantees) fence the land and keep it
in repair." The question arose whether this word created
a condition, and the court say :
"We may assume that the proviso in the deed created a condition subsequent, and in this we are sustained by most if not
all the authorities ancient and modern."

In the New Hampshire case of Chapin v. School,§ the court
say:
"The usual words of a condition subsequent are ' so that' ' pro.
vided,'" &c.
* Vol. 3, p. 86, Condition A 2.

t Page 88, A 4.
45 Maine, 356; and see Msrston v. Marston, 45 Id. 412.
85 New Hampshire,. 450.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V.

COLT..

129

Argument for the heirs.

In another case, Wiggin v. Berry, from the same State,* a
devise was to a town "provided" they would pay the taxes
on the land and devote the net profits to keeping a school
for the benefit of the inhabitants. The townldid not comply with these conditions, and the court held that this was
a devise upon condition, that the town had forfeited their
title, and the land went to the testator's devisees. This case
seems to be directly in point.
In Massachusetts, Attorney-General v. Merrimack County,t
the court. say:
"The words 'provided,' 'so that,' and 'upon condition that,'
are the usual words to make'a condition."
In Hayden v. Slouqhlon,. a case in the same State, the devise was to a town for a school-house, "provided said schoolhouse is built by said town within one hundred rods of the
place where the meeting-house now stands."
In this case the school-house was not built, and the court
held that the land upon entry by the heirs reverted to them
It is an important case in many respects, and will be re.
ferred to hereafter.
So 'in Hadley v. Hadley,§ the court held that the words
"provided" and "on condition," had the same effect in
making a devise conditional.
And in Rawson v. School District,j in speaking of a conditional estate, they say:
"The usual and proper technical words by which such an eetate is granted by deed are 'provided, so as, or on condition."'
To the same effect are cases in New York and Pennsylvania.
In the English case of Tattersallv. Howell,** the same word
5Pickering, 534.
t 14 Gray, 612.
" 2 Foster, 114.
1I7 Alle ,128.
4 Gray, 145.
Caw v. Robertson, 1 Selden, 125, Picklev. McKissick, 21 Pennsylvania
State, 232; McKissick v. Pickle, 16 Id. 140.
+ 2 Merivale, 26.
VOL. V.

9

180

STANLEY

V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the heirs.

"provided " was used, and the court held it created an estate
upon condition.
The usual and legal effect of this word "provided," being
therefore to create a conditional estate, subject to forfeiture
by a breach of the condition, this court will give it such a
construction here.
There is another rule of ,Onstruction-tho eighteenth of
Mr. Jarman's sories,* and strongly enforced, as a true rule of
law, in an ifnportant caset by Lord Chancellor Sugden-applicable to this question.
"Where a word is used in one devise in a will with a particular meaning, and is again found in a subsequent devise used in
the same manner, it is to have the same effect."
In one devise in this will, the testator devises certain lands
to Elizabeth Whitman, "provided she shall not make any
claim upon my estate for any services done for me."
There can be no doubt but that this is a devise upon condition subsequent, upon tfle breach of which a forfeiture
would ensue.t
Will it be argued, that this condition is void, as a restriction of the power of alienation ? The law is not so.
1st. It has always been held in Connecticut by an uninterrupted chain of decisions, that under the act of 1702, such
a restriction is valid.
In New Haven v. Sheffield,§ decided in 1861, the court say:
"The chief object in the enactment of that statute was not
so much to exempt certain estates from taxation as to confirm
and perpetuatethe estates referred to in it."
And this expression was affirmed and approved in the very
latest case on the subject, Brainard v. Colchester,! decided in
1863, and see Hamden v. Rice.
* Jarman on Wills, vol. 2, p. 527 (side page 744).

t Ridgeway v. Munkittrick, 1 Drury & Warren, 84.
$ Rogers v. Law, 1 Black, 253; Sackett v. Mallory, 1 Metcalf, 355; Eger.
ton v. Brownlow, 4 House of Lords Cases, 1-183.
j 80 Connecticut, 171.
Ii 81 Id. 407.
24 Id. 356.

Dec. 1866.]

131

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the heirs.

This court will hold itself bound by the decisions of the
State of Connecticut on this subject.*
2d. Apart from this statute of 1702, it is conceived that
such 4 devise to an ecclesiastical society is good.
In many of the cases hereinbefore and hereinafter cited,
similar devises were held to be valid.
In Braille Square Church v. Grant, a Massachusetts dase,t
the devise was on condition that the land should never be
sold, but the minister should always reside on it. In considering the question whether the devise was void as violating the rule against perpetuities, the court say:
"A grant of a fee on condition only creates an estate of a base
or determinable nature in the grantee, leaving the right or possibility of revester vested in the grantor. Such an interest or
right in the grantor, as it does not arise and take effecC upon a
future uncertain or remote contingency, is not liable to the objection of violating the rule against perpetuities, in the same degree
with other conditional and contingent interests in real estate
of an executory character. The possibi'ty of reverter, being a
vested interest in real property, is capable at all times of being
released to the person holding the estate on condition or his
grantee, and if so released vests an absolute and indefeasible
title thereto. The grant or devise of a fee on condition does not
therefore fetter and tie up estates so as to prevent their alienation, and thus contraVene the policy of the law, which aims to
secure the free and unembarrassed disposition of real property."
This view was again taken by the same court in Austin v.
Cambridgeport,jwhere there was a grant of land to a parish
on condition that it be forever used as a site for a church in
part and in part for the support of the minister.
3d. But this point is not an open one here.
In Pern v. Carey,§ in this court, an important case, fully
argued, one point taken Was, that the devise to a charity-providing that none of the land should ever be sold, was void
as making a perpetuity contrary to law; but the court unan* Perin v. Carey, 24 Howard, 465.

t 8 Gray, 148.

J 21 Pickering, 215.

j 24 Howard, 607

STANLEY

V.

COLT.

ESup. Ct,

Argument for the heirs.

inously held that a devise to a charity could be made in
perpetuity, and say:
"The direction in the will that the real estate should not be
alienated, makes no perpetuity in the sense forbidden by the
law, but only a perpetuity allowed by law 'and equity in the
case of charitable trusts."
Similar decisions exist in New York,* North Carolina,t
Kentucky, and other States.§

II. This act of 1852 was void upon three grounds:
1st. No State legislature has power to alter the express
conditions of a will. Such an attempt is contrary to the
principles of natural right and justice which no legislature
can contravene.
In Hooker v. Canal Co.,J a Connecticut case, the court say:
"The fundamental maxims of a free government require that
the right of personal liberty and private property should be held
sacred."
They cite and approve the expressions of Marshall, C. J.,
in Fletcher v. Peck:
'"itAnd it may well be doubted whether the nature of society
and of government does not prescribe some limits to the legislative power," &c.
This whole subject is fully treated in the late decision of
Booth v. Woodbury,** where it is expressly held that the legis.
lature can pass no laws contrary to the "principles of natural
justice."
All these cases, and the jurisprudence of Connecticut on
Williams v. Williams, 4 Selden, 585, 554, 555.

t State v. Gerard, 2 Iredell's Equity, 210.
$ Curling v. Curling, 8 Dana, 88.
See Wiggin v. Berry, 2 Foster, 114; Brown v. Hummell, 6 Pennsylvania
State, 86; Grissom v. ltill, 17 Arkansas, 488; Franklin v. Armfield, 2 Sneed,
305.
1114 Connecticut, 152; and see Gas Co. v. Gas Co., 25 Id. 88, and Hotch1"iss v. Porter, 80 Id 418.
V 5 Cranch, 185.
32 Connecticut, I8.
3C

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the heirs.

this subject, are in harmony with and in fact foundeu upon
the case of Calder v. Btll,* a case which went from Connecticut to this court; and the expressions in Goshen v. Stonington are almost identical with those of Mr. Justice Chase,
where he says:
"I cannot subscribe to the omnipotence of a State legislature, or that it is absolute and without control, although its
authority should not be expressly restrained by the constitution or fundamental law of the State."
But both in this court and many of the State courts the
same rule is applied.t
A case quite in point is Brown v. lummel,.T in the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania. There a devise of land was made
to an orphan asylum, with a provision that the land be never
sold, but the rents and profits only be applied to the use of
the asylum. The legislature, by a special act, directed that
part of the land be sold.
The court held unanimously that the act was void and unconstitutional.
If the legislature can, by a special act, dispense with the
performance of one condition of a devise, they can with anly.
Such an act as this is different from those enabling or
healing acts often passed, such as those authorizing a sale
of minors' lands,.or those of lunatics, &c. In all such cases
they merely remove a personal disakliy.§ Acts, too, will be
cited on the other side in which power has been given to
corporations to sell, where in the gifts to them no such
power was expressly given. Such cases are from the pur.
3 Dallas, 386,
t Terrett v.Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43; Wilkinson v.Leland, 2 Peters, 627; Irvine's Appeal, 16 Pennsylvania State, 256; Shoenberger v.School District,
32 Id. 34; Railroad Co. v.Davis, 2 Devcreux & Battle, 451; Hatch v. Vermont Railroad, 25 Vermont, 49; Benson v. Mayor, &c., 10 Barbour, 223;
Regent's University v.Williams, 9 Gill & Johnson, 365; Billings v.Hall, 7
California, 1.
$ 6 Pennsylvania State, 86.
Powers v. Bergen, 2 Selden, 358; Shoenberger v. School District, 82
Pennsylvania State, 84; Leggett v. Hunter, 5 E. P. Smith, 445.

134

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the heirs.

pose. To say nothing about the constitutionality or safety
of this sort of legislation in general, it may be noted that in
many cases the legislature has only aided an intent of a donor
left unexpressed or but insufficiently given, or cases in which
perhaps the legislature was itself the donor. But can any
case be found where, without' the assent of the heirs, a power
to destroy the identity and substance of the gift has been
given in any case where it was plain that the testator meant
to keep the land in specie, forever undivided in the corporation, beneficiary, and devisee? What is proper to be done
in any case where heirs may have an interest, and what the
legislature of Connecticut itself has done, may be seen in
the Acts of Connecticut, May Sessions, 1850, at page 82.
There Thaddeus and Eunice Burr, she owning it, had granted
a lot for a parsonage. An act reciting that the land was not
now and never could be wanted for a parsonage, and that a
sale was desirable and expedient, authorized a sale. But
how ? It declares the sale is to be made "with the assent of
the heirs of the said Eunicc;" and the act authorized the heirs
to release a condition in the deed, in the presence of witnesses;
and such release, it was enacted, " shall operate to forever
estop said heirs, and all claiming under them." This is the
right way; and in no other way, assuredly, in a case like the
present, could a sale be authorized and the right of property
in the heirs be duly respected.
It will be argued that a legislature has power as parens
patrice to interfere and authorize a sale of land in cases like
the one at bar; but the authorities say that the legislatures
in this country have no such power.
In Moore v. Moore,* a Kentucky case, the court say:

"We do not admit that the commonwealth as parens patrice
can rightfully interfere, unless there has been an escheat to her,
and then she can become absolute and beneficial owner. Rights
here are regulated by law, and if any person has a claim to property ineffectually dedicated to charity, the commonwealth has
4 Dana, 366; and see Lepage v. Mcamara, 5 Clarke (Iowa), 124, an-I
White v. Fisk, 22 Connecticut, 31 (54).

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY ,V,

COLT.

Argument for the heirs.

no prerogative right to decide on that claim and dispose of tho
property, as the King of England has been permitted 'to do."
2d. This act of 1853 !is void, as depriving the plaintiffh of
property, contrary to the constitution of the State of Connecticut.
That instrument declares that no person shall be "d e prived of property but by due course of law."
It is not pretended that in this case any compensation was
made, nor were any of the plaintiffs cited to appear, or informed by notice in any way, of the proceedings.
By this act, property was taken from the heirs. They had
a conditional or contingent interest, being a right to enter
upon and hold this property for a breach of condition, which
right this act would deprive them of.
The case o flayden v. Stoughton,* in Massachusetts, affirmed in Austin v. Cambridgeport,t and in Proprietors v.
Grant,.T is in point. In that case there was a devise to a
town upon condition that they erect a school-house, which
they neglected to do, and the land was thereby forfeited.
An action to recover it was brought by the heirs of the residuary devisec, and the court held that there was a contingent interest left in the devisor, which by the residuary devise
he gave to the residuary devisee.
This accords with the law in Connecticut.
In Smilh v. Pendell,§ in that State, the court say:
"The right of It., therefore, was more than a naked possi.
bility like that of an heir apparent; it was an interest in the estate,
though a contingent one. Such an interest is descendible."
These heirs, therefore, had an interest in this real estate,
and under the Slate constitution this act is void.
3d. We say further that it is void as contrary to the
5 Pickering, 528.
t 21 Id. 215.
: 3 Gray, 147 ; see also Underhill v, Railroad Co., 20 Barbour, 455 ;and
Robertson v. Fleming, 4 Jones's Equity, 387.
j 19 Connecticut, 112.

STANLEY V. COLT.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the heirs.

Constitution of the United States, which prohibits a State
from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
It has been h~ld from an early day in Connecticut that by
the law of 1702, the State made a contract with all devisors
of lands fbr the purposes mentioned in that act, and that all
acts of the legislature affecting such devises in any way con.
trary to such act are void.
This question first arose in 1826, in the case of Atwater v.

Woodbridge.*
The last clause of the act of 1702, exempts the property
named in the act from taxation, and the question was
whether an act of the legislature taxing such property was
valid. The court say:
"The government (by this act) made a contract with all such
persons as might be disposed to give their propvrty to these religious purposes and charitable uses, that it should be forever
exempted from taxation."
The question again arose in 1829 in Osborne v. Ifun~phrey,t
and was again argued at great length by some of the ablest
counsel in the State. The court held, in a very well-considered opinion, that an act affecting this exemption from
taxation was contrary to this clause of the Constitution of
the United States, and based their opinion upon the case of
.New Jersey v. Wi'son,t in this court, and quote and affirm
the words above cited from Atwater v. Woodbridge.
These cases have been affirmed by decisions in Connecticut down to the present time.§
The decisions of this court equally establish the proposition, especially the case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward,J
where Marshall, C. J., says:
"These gifts were made not indeed to make a profit for the
donors or thbir posterity, but for something in their opinion of
6 Connecticut, 230.
jt 7 Id. 335.
1 7 Cranch, 164.
Parker v. Redfield, 10 Connecticut, 490; Landon v. Litchfield, 11 Id.
251; Hart v. Cornwall, 14 Id. 228; Seymour v. Hartford, 21 Id. 481; New
Haven v. Sheffield, 80 Id. 160; Brainard v. Colchester, 31 Id. 407.
114 Wheaton, 642.
*

STANLEY V.

Dec. 1866.]

COLT.

Argument for the heirs.

inestimable value, for something which they deemed a full
equivalent for the moneywith which it was purchased The
consideration for which they stipulated is the perpetual application of the fund to its object in the mode prescribed by themselves."

The act of 1852, in fact destroyed this contract. The contract was that the land when so given, should forever remain
and be continued to the use or uses to which such lands,
&c., have been or shall be given and granted, acording to the
true intent and meanhg of the grantors. This was the principal
object in view in passing the act.
In New laven v. Sheffield,* the court says,--its words be
ing cited and approved in Brainard v. Colehester,t the last
case on this subject in Connecticut,
"'The.chief object in the enactment of that statute was not so
much to exempt certain estates from taxation as to confirm and
perpetuate the estates referred to in it with certain attending
privileges."
Now the "true intent and meaning" of the testator was
as expressed in his will, that the land " should not ever
thereafter 1)e sold o" disposed of," and if so sold it should
revert to his heirs.
In the Dartmouth College case, Marshall, C. J., referring
to the substitution, made in that case, of the will of the
State for the will of the donors, says:
"This change may be for the advantage of this college in
particular, and may be for the advantage of literature in general, but it is not according to the will of the donors, and is subversive of that contract on the faith of which their property is
taken."

Will it be argued that this devise does not come within the
provisions of the act of 1702i because it is not for such purposes as are mentioned therein ? Let us consider that
point.
* 80 Connecticut,

t 81 Id. 407.

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the heirs.

The objects specified are "for the maintenance of the ministry
of the Gospel in any part of this colony, or schools of learning,
or for the relief of poor people, or for any other public and
charitable use." This is a devise for the "maintenance of the
ministry of the gospel." It is a devise to an Ecclesiastical
S6eiety, established "for the upport of the gospel ministry
and the maintenance of public worsbip." The lands are
always to be kept by the society, and the rents are to be
applied in the first place to purchase a tankard (obvi'ously
for sacramental purposes); to assist in purchasing a bell to
summon the congregation to religious exercises; and the re-

mainder of the annual rents and profits were to be applied
during all time to the "use and benefit of said society."
Now as the sole object for which said society was established was the support of the Gospel ministry and the maintenance of public worship, and the rents were to be applied
by the society for its use and benefit, they must necessarily
be applied for the maintenance of the Gospel, as the society
could not apply them to any other use.
But this expression of the statute has received a construetion by the courts of Connecticut, and words much less apt
than those in the will have been held to come within its fair
meaning and intendment.
The question first arose in Parkerv. Iedfield.* The words
there used were "for the support. and maintenance of the
church." It was oljected that this expression did not bring
the case within the statute, but the court decided that it did.
And the view was even more strongly taken in Landon v.
Litcl'eld,t where the expression was "' one lot with the di'Visions and commons to be and remain forever to and for
the use and inprorement of the first minister and his successors
in the work of the ministry in said place."
. There are decisions in other States in similar cases which
sustain this construction.

In a case entitled In re Trustees,.T in New York, the case
was a devise to trustees to support scholars of a school, and
* 10 Connecticut, 490.

t 11 Id. 257-8.

131 New York, 574.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.-

139

Argument f'or the heirs.

it was held to be a devise to the school within the meaning
of the act of 1806, vihich speaks of property devised for the
use or benefit of a school; citing the well-known ease of Attorney-General v. Tancred, from Ambler,* where it was held
that a devise to a trustee fot sundry students of Christ College was valid under the mortrnain acts as in effect a devise
to the college.
In MeDonogh's Executors v. Murdoch,t this court say:
"All the property of a corporation like Baltimore is held for
public uses, and when the capacity is conferred or acknowledged
to it, to hold property, its destination to a public use is necessarily
implied."
So in Massachusetts, Brown v. Porler,T and in Pennsylvania, McGirr v. Aaron.§
The decision in Seymour v. Hartford,in 21st Connecticut,I
will be relied on as opposed to this view, and to show that a
devise must follow the exact words of the statute to come
under it.
In that case the conveyance of the land was made to the
society in fee, and expressly stated to be "without any manner of condition." It was asserted that the mere conveyance to
an ecclesiasticalsociety brought the land within the act, so that
it could not be taxed.
The court first say that they affirm all the preceding cases
and the principles upon which they are founded. They then
say, that this being a question of exemption from taxation,
they shall construe the conveyance strictly and so as not to
extend such exemptions. And they find a distinction between this and the former eases, that in them " the donor
had, by the express terms of the grant, impressed upon the
property a perpetual sequestration for the maintenance of
the ministry, &c." They say:
"Nothing of this is to be found in the deed of Mrs. Burnham,
but, on, the other hand, the deed expressly declares the gift is a
" Page 351.

1 Pennsylvania, 49.

t" 15 Howard, 413.
i Page 481.

1 10 Massachusetts, 93.

140

[Sup. Ct

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the heirs.

sure and absolute fee simple, without any manner of condition.
Of course the'grantor does not require that the property should'
be sequestered, or kept, or used for the maintenance of the ministry, nor does she declare any particular intent whatever, unless the general. character and corporate powers of the society
imply one, which we think is not the case.

.

.

. We are un-

able to distinguish this grant from any absolute purchase made
by the society generally, or from any unqualified gift made to
it. . . . We discover in Mr8. Burnham's deed nothing but
an unqualified transfer of property, which may be used at the
pleasure of the grantees; no restriction, no sequestration, for
any public object. The society may do with it as they please;
they may sell it, or use it, or give it away, without-being liable
to any one."

The case at bar differs therefore entirely from the case of
Seymour v. flar foi-d ini the very points mentioned by the
court as the ones in which that case differed from those
theretofore decided. This property was sequestered and restricted. If the donor had any intent, it was that this land
should be perpetually sequestered for the use of the society.
If Mr. Stanley had mercly devised this property to the society, saying no more, it might be argued that &ymour v..
_Harford applied, especially if he had said that he devised it
"without any manner of condition," instead of annexing, ashe has done, this express condition to it, and repeating it
over and over.
But if this devise does not come under the expression,
"for the maintenance of the ministry of the Gospel," it certainly does under that of" other public and charitable use."*
III. This devise being upon condition that the society
should not sell and convey this land, and they having
broken the condition, what is the effect of such violation?
Of course, that the heirs of the devisor may enter, declare
the devise forfeited by the breach, and recover the property
devised.
In Hayden v. Stoughton,t already cited, and affirmed in
* Hamden v. Rice, 24 Connecticut, 355.

t5 :Pickering, 528.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.

141

Argument for the purchaser.

Brigham v. Shattuck,* and again in Austin. v. Canbridgeport,f
land was given for a school-house, provided it was built in a
certain spot. It was not so built, and the residuary devisee
entered for breach, and brought this action to recover the
land. The court held the devise conditional, and fbund that
there had been a breach, and thereby the estate was forfeited
and went to the claimants.T
It may be argued that even if the society have broken the
condition of the devise, the land is not thereby forfeited, but
that a court of chancery, either under the principle of cy
pres or its authority over trusts, is the only power that can
interfere with the sale. But in Connecticut the courts of
chancery have not adopted and do not apply the principle
of cypres.§ And this court will follow the rule in Connecticut. H
Nor would the principle of cy pres, or its jurisdiction over
trusts, ever empower a court of chancery, to authorize or
relieve against a breach of the condition of a devise.
Messrs. B. R.- Curtis and W. W. MeFarlane,contra, for the
purchaser:
The importance of the case, spoken of on the other side, is
admitted; and the invitation to argue it fully is accepted.
The heirs cannot recover, unless they can show that the
devise was upon some condition, or that there was some limitation made in the will in their favor.
It is not sufficient to show that the lands have been diverted from the use for which they were devised, or that
they had not been enjoyed by the beneficiaries in the particular manner described by the testator; for where lands
have been devised to a charitable use in fee simple, the heir
t 21 Id. 2"15.
: Phillips v. Medbury, 7 Connecticut, 568; Rogers v. Law, 1 Black, 253;
Sackett v. Mallory, 1 Metcalf, 355; Wiggin v. Berry, 2 Foster, 114; Princeton,v. Adams, 10 Cushing* 129.
White v. Fisk, 22 Connecticut, 81 (54).
* 10 Pickering, 806.

Fontain v. Ravenel, 17 Howard, 384.
Dolan v. Baltimore, 4 Gill, 394; Gilman v. Hamilton, 16 Illinois, 225;
Do Themmines v. Do Bonneval, 5 Russell, 289.

S0TANLEY V.

C:OLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

has no more interest in and no more right to the lands than
he has when they are devised to an individual in fee simple,
either directly or in trust. The public have an interest in
the execution of public charities, and the beneficiaries have
an interest, and if the directions contained in the will of the
testator, either as to the manier of enjoyment or the objects
who are to be benefited by his bounty, are departed from,
either the public or the beneficiaries, if they are sufficiently
certain, and have a sufficient vested interest, may have a
remedy.
But the heir has no interest and no right, and therefore
can have no remedy.
There are certain elementary rules that are to be applied
in order to determine whether such a condition has been
created.
1. That it depends upon the intention of the testator, to
be gathered, not from particular phrases having a technical
import, but fro'm an examination of all the provisions of the
will which can have any bearing on the matter in question.
2. That although the law allows testators to impose conditions subsequent, a breach of which will create a forfeiture, yet the law deems it improbable that testators will do
so, and therefore leans against any construction which
would result in such a condition. Courts will not give it
that effect by construction.*
Words of proviso and condition will be construed into
words of covenant when such is the apparent intention and
meaning of the parties.t
Formerly courts of law did not recognize or admit the
power of the court of chancery to enforce the performance
of covenants and the execution of trusts, and therefore
words which would not now be construed to import a strict
Mary Portington's case, 10 Coke, 42 a; Worman v. Teagarden, 2 Ohio
(N. S.) 880; Newkerk v. Newkerk, 2 Caines, 345; Wright v.Wilkin, 8
Law Times, 507; S. C., 4 Id. 221.
t Clapham v.Moyle, 1 Levinz, 155;: S. C., 1 Keble, 842; Huff v. Nickerson, 27 Maine, 106; Shepherd's Touchstone, 122; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 23.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the purchaser.

condition were allowed to have that effect when such a construction was necessary to give a remedy.*
Charities are favored in law, and they have always received a more liberal construction than the law will allow in
gifts to individuals; and the same words in a will, when applied to individuals, may require a different construction
when applied to a eharity.t
But there is a preliminary question which, if answered
one way, would seem to be decisive of the case in any aspect
of it, and that question is, In whom was the legal title to the
estate which was devised vested by the will?
We contend that the legal estate vested in the trustees, for
the following reasons:
1. It is a rule of law that where trustees are named in a
will it is not necessary that the testator should say in terms
that he gives the legal estate to them. Nor that he should
describe the quantity of legal estate which he intends to
give them. If trustees are nambd the law looks to see what
powers are conferred upon them and what duties are required
of them, and then considers that it was the testator's intention to give them such a legal estate as would enable them
to execute those powers and discharge those duties.T
2. Such powers are conferred upon these trustees and such
duties required of them as to make it necessary that they
should take a legal estate, to enable them to execute those
powers and perform those duties.
This will is inartificial, and, perhaps, confused, but reading
the whole instrument,-taking all its provisions together,we find that the testator appoints three of his friends trustees, that to these trustees he gives the possession of this
real estate. The tankard is to be bought from the first
rents issuing from his lands, "by my trustees after it comes
to ther possession." . ... He provides that they are to hold
the estate and to rent the same, and receive the rents and
profits, and to do all other legal acts for the Vell ordering
Wright v. Wilkin, 9 Jurist, 715.
SWebster v. Cooper, 14 Howard, 499.

t Story's Equity,

1165

STANLEY V. COLT.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

and management of said estate. The office, powers, and
duties of the trustees, like the trust, are made perpetual.
The trustees, and they alone, are to have the possession
of this estate. The trustees, and they alone, are to have the
power to lease and manage it. They are to collect the rents.
They are to pay them over to the society; and, of course, to
enable them to discharge these duties, and execute these
powers, "and to do all other legal acts for the well managing of the property," it was necessary that they should take
the legal estate, and therefore the law will presume that the
testator intended them to take it, and will declare accordingly.
Inorder to show that there has been any breach of condition by reason of the alienation of this land, the plaintiffs
themselves must show that the legal title was vested in trustees.
The conveyance of this land purports to have been made
by foulr persons, three of whom were trustees under this
will, and a fourth was a gentleman nominated by the legislature, to represent the public interest. Upon these four
persons, the legislature, by their act, undertook to confer
the authority to make this conveyance, and when they make
the conveyance they say they act by force of authority conferred upon them by the legislature.
The defendants contend that this act of the legislature
was unconstitutional and void.
They are obliged to say so, for if the act was constitutional, then the sale was legal, and passed a title to the property.
If the act was unconstitutional and void, and the legal
title was in the corporation, it still remains there, and there
has been no sale, and consequently no breach of condition.
The corporation could be divested of the legal title only
by a conveyance made in the name of the corporation, and
under-the seal of the corporation, by some person expressly
authorized by the corporation to make it.
The agents of the corporation, as such, have no power to
convey the real estate of the corporation. But this convey-

D~ec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the purchaser.

ance was not made by these persons under any authority
conferred on them by the corporation. They did not affix
the seal of the corporation. They say in the deed that they
aot by virtue of authority conferred upon them by the act
of the legislature.
If then, by the terms of the will, the legal title vested in
thb society, and if the act of the legislature is void, the legal
title still remains in the'society, and there has been no breach
of condition.
We have said that the plaintiffs, in order to recover, must
show that the devise was upon some condition, the breach
of which would be attended by a forfeiture.
We submit now, that upon the whole will, and looking at
all 'its provisions, no such condition can be found. It is
true that the word " Provided," in certain connections, and
under certain circumstances, is competent to raise a condition', and it is equally certain that the same word, used in
a diftirent connection, and iindor diffbrent circumstances,
will [lot create a condition. The court will therefore seek
to discover the intention of the testator in this particular,
not by considering what legal force some particular word
in the will might have in the abstract, but by looking at all
the provisions of the will, and the connection in which the
word is used, and thus fr'om an examinatioit of the whole,
will ascertain the sense in which the word was probably
employed by the testator.
On the fhce of this will, it is plain that the Second or
South Ecclesiastical Society were the objects of the testator's
bounty, in respect to this land, and that he intended this
bounty to be perpetual.
Now, if we keep in view this intention to create and perpetuate a trust for this society's benefit, a trust which he ex
pected would endure forever, and consider that it was also
his purpose to give very particular directions for the administration of it, and then observe the connection in which
this word "provided" is used, it'will be evident, that the
testator could not have used the word in the sense set up by
the plaintiffs.
VrO,. v.

10

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

The testator, in the beginning of the will, After the decease of his sister, Mrs. Whitman, devises his real estate exeept, &c., to the Second or South Ecclesiastical Society, "to
be and remain to the use and benefit of said Second or South
Ecclesiastical Society, forever." But the society is not to
have the management and control of this property: no power
to lease it and receive the rents and profits directly. The
entire management of it the testator givcs to certain trustees
to be appointed by him, and these trustees are to execute
their trust according to his directions; therefore the testator,
after the words last quoted, and in the same sentence, proceeds to give those directions, and says:
"Provided, that said real estate be not ever hereafter sold or
disposed of, bnt the same be leased or let, and the annual rents
or profits thereof applied to the use and benefit of said society,
and the letting, leasing, and managing of said estate to be under
the management and direction of' certain trustees hereafter
named by me, and their successors, to be appointed in like manner as hereinafter directed."*
It will be observed that every word here quoted is directly
and essentially connected with this word "provided," which
is supposed to create the condition. If there is any condition here, then it is plain that there are several conditions,
and if a breach of one would cause a forfeiture of the estate,
it must be admitted that the same result would follow from
a breach of any other. The plaintiffs say there is a condition against alienation, the breach of which will cause a
forfeiture of the est. te. If so, there is a condition that the
estate shall be leased or let, and also that the annual rents
and profits shall be paid to the society, and also that the
leasing, letting, and managing of the estate shall be under
the direction of trustees appointed by the testator, " in manner as hereinafter directed," the breach of either of which conditions would likewise cause a forfeiture of the estate; yet
it is most improbable that the testator should have devised
* The directions are found in the next paragraph.

See supra, p. 121.

.Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. CO0LT.
Argument for the purchaser.

this estate t6 this society, and endeavored to impress upon
his bounty perpetual duration, and should have hedged it
about by so many careful and minute directions as to its control and management, and should at the same time have intended that the society should forfeit the estate in case his
trustees whom he had appointed to control and manage the
estate, and in whom the legal title was vested, should be
guilty of a breach of trust in violating any of these provisions. Such could hardly have been the intention. The
true interpretation, in this particular, is this: The testator
here creates a trust for the letting, leasing, and managing
of this estate, and appoints trustees. It was his intention to
give directions to those trustees for the management of it;
they were not to sell but only to lease it, and the languxage
which is supposed to raise the condition, occurs in the course
of the directions he gives to his trustees, and was not used
with any intention of creating a forfeiture in case the trustees should fail to obey those directions, or commit a breach
of trust. Thus we find these words:
" And said trustees and their successors shall have full power
to let and lease said estate, and to do all other legal acts for the
well ordering and managing of said estate, under the limitations
and restrictionsas hereinbefore expressed."

Now these limitations and restrictions are, that they should
not sell, that the estate should not be divided in case part
of the society should secede, that they shall lease the estate,
but shall not give a lease for more than thirty years. Undoubtedly he desired that these directions should be strictly
obeyed, but that the testator intended that the society should
forfeit the estate in the event that the trustees should disobey any of these directions, cannot be maintained with any
plausibility.
Let us advert to precedents. In the recent Massachusetts
case of Chapin v. Harris,*a writ of entry was brought to recover certain real estate and water power, the title to which
8 Allen, 594.

STANLEY

V. COLT.

[SLIP. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

the plaintiff claimed had reverted to him by reason of the

,breach of a condition annexed to the land. The clause in
the deed which was claimed to raise the condition, was as
follows:
"Provided said draw shall be so built as to answer for a street
to the railroad, and Spring Street is to be opened.tbree rods wide
across said farm, to the south line of said railroad, and the said
Stearns is to make the road."
The court decided that this clause did not raise a condition, the breach of which would be attended by a forfeiture
of the estate, and :among other things they say:
"It is true, as the demandant contends, ' provided' is an apt
word to create a condition, and it is often used by way of limitation or qualification only, especially when it does not introduce a new clause, but only seems to qualify or restrain the
generality of a former clause."
Such is the connection in which the word is used, and
such its office in the case at bar.
A recent English case is Wright v. Wlkin.* A testator,
after bequeathing legacies, devised to the defendant and to
his heirs, &c., "all the realvstate," and all the "residue of
his personal estate," upon this express condition:
"That if my personal estate should be insufficient for the purpose, they do and shall within twelve months after my decease,
pay and discharge the legacies before bequeathed, and I feel
confident that he will comply with my wish, it being my particular desire that the above legacies shall be paid, and I hereby
make chargeable all my said real and personal estate with the
payment of the aforesaid legacies."
It was held in the K. B.,t and afterwards on appeal in
the Exchequer Chamber, that the devise was not upon a
condition, the failure to comply with which created a for* 2 Best & Smith, 232, and see Mayor, &c., of South Molton P. Attorpey.

General and others, 5 House of Lords Reports; 14 Bevan, 357.
t 2 Best & Smith, 232.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V.

COLT.

149

Argument for the purchaser.

feiture, but merely a charge or trust in favor of the legatees,
and that although the words " upon this express condition,"
if they had stood alone, would have created one, yet when
the testatrix went on to say, that she trusted to his good
faith and honor to pay them, and very much desired that
they should be paid, and when afterwards she said she made
them a charge upon her personal and real estate, that was
inconsistent with the idea that she intended the property
should be taken away by condition, because there was a trust
to be fulfilled, and that inconsistency was so great that they
held that these words, " upon this express condition," must
yield, and the trust must be fulfilled, but the legal estate
must remain unaffected by the words of condition.
Important deductions are to be drawn from these decisions.
They say (as we submit the law clearly is),
1st. That the case is not to be decided by looking to particular provisions in the will, but by looking at the whole
will to ascertain the intention of the testator.
2d. That words much stronger than those used in the Will
in question, will be controlled, if the court can see that there
was an intention to create a trust, and that the trust will be
defeated if the words shall be held to create a condition instead of a trust.
That there was an intention to create a trust here, does
not admit of controversy. The testator appoints trustees
and provides for perpetuating the trust, for the use and
benefit of the society. Could it then have been his intention
at the same time that he created this trust, and said it was
to be perpetual, to insert a provision by which it could be
defeated at the will of the trustees?
II. If this is a condition it is void as being in restraint of
alienation.
If this was an ordinary devise, either to an incorporation
or an individual, a condition against any alienation of the
property devised would be merely void as contrary to the
policy of the law.
This is not a devise under the statute of Connecticut, as

150

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

argued on the other side. If it were, that statute has not
empowered devisors to make such conditions.
1. Upon the question whether this devise is within the
statute of Connecticut we rely upon Seymour v. Harford.*
That was the case of a deed of land to this same society by
Anne Burnham, dated July 7th, 1762. The land was conveyedli these words:
"I therefore by these presents fully, freely, ahd absolutely
give, grant, releas6 and confirm unto the said South Church or
Society called Congregational, and to their successors forever,

all the aforesaid house, homestead, and premises, with their appurtenances, to have and to hold unto them and their successors forever, as-a good, sure and indefeasible estate in fee simple,
without any manner of condition."
A part of the land included in this deed came by sundry
conveyances to the plaintiff. The town of Hartford had laid
a tax on it, and compelled him to pay the tax. The plaintiff then brought'this action to recover back the money thus
paid, claiming that this land was not liable to taxation, on
the ground that by the deed of Anne Burnham it was granted
" for the maintenance of the ministry of the gospel," or for
some other public, and charitable use, within the meaning
of the statute of 1702, and therefore by the express terms of
that statute was exempt from taxation.
This claim wai not sustained by the court, and it was decided that the mere fact that the conveyance was to an ecclesiastical society did not bring it within the provisions of
the statute. '.That the statute requires the grantor to dedicate the property to some of the particular uses therein
specified, and the general character and corporate powers
of an ecclesiastical society do not imply that it is dedicated
to any of those uses; for whatever implication might be
drawn from the general character and limited powers of the
corporation at the time when the grant is made, yet that
character and those powers might be thereafter essentially
21 Connecticut, 481.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the purchaser.

changed by the legislature. That the statute requires the
grantor to declare the use, and he cannot leave it to the law
to do it for him.
. It was therefore decided in that case that a grant of land
to this society, or to any ecclesiastical society, without any
other declaration of the use than may be implied from ,the
character of the grantee, is not within the statute, because it
is not a dedication or sequestration of land to any of the
uses specified in the statute. That case is decisive of the
case at bar, for the material facts are the same in both.
But if the devise were within the statute of Connecticut,
a condition in restraint of alienation would not be a valid
condition, the breaeh of which would work a forfeiture, because that statute does not authorize a grantor or devisor to
impose such a condition.
In order to s'how that it does, the plaintiffs must maintain
and must show to the court that this statute not only repealed the statutes of mortmain existing in England before
the emigration of our ancestors, and which upon general
principles would be brought over to this country by them,
but authorized any proprietor of land to sequester it forever,
to render it inalienable forever, and to take it out of coin-,
merce forever.
This, we submit, cannot be shown.
In Bible Society v. Wetmor ,* it was decided that this
statute of 1702 was virtually a re-enactment of the statute
of Elizabeth.
Under the statutes of mortmain a devise to a corporation
or to the use of a corporation, whether lay or ecclesiastical,
was void.t
The Connecticut statute, commonly called the statute of
1702, was passed at tl~e October session of the General
Court, 1684, and was as follows:
"For the encouraging of learning and the promoting of publique concernments, it is ordered by this court, that for the
*

17 Connecticut, 181.

t 2 Kent's Corn., 10th ed., 342; Shelford on Mortmain, 350.

STANLh Y V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

future, that all such houses and lands as are, or shall, by any
charitable persons, he given or purchased for, or to help on, the
maintenance of the ministry or schools, or poor, in any part of
-this colony, they shall remayne to the use or uses for which
they were given forever, and shall be exempted out of the list
of estates, and be rate free, any former law or 6rder notwithstanding."
The history of this law is instructive upon the question of
its interpretation, and shows, we think, that we are correct
as to the object of it.
The charter granted by Charles II constituted the anly
title of the colony to the lands within its limits, the Indian
titles which they had acquired from tini to time previous
to the grant of the charter being, as Governor Andross said,
no better than "the scratch of a bear's paw."
The colonial legislature or General Court had, however,
before the grant of the charter, assumed to make numerous
and large grants of land to townships, individuals, and for
public, charitable, and pious uses. The charter conveyed to
the colony in fee simple all the lands Within its boundaries,
but at the time the statute in question was passed, the grants
mhde by the colonial legislature before the charter was
granted had not been confirmed. 'The efforts which were
being made to .deprive them of their charter created the
greatest anxietyand alarm in the colony. While they were
in no danger of losing their charter, a confirmation of these
grants by the colonial legislatdre was not deemed important;
as soon as the people discovered that they were in danger
of losing their only mnniment of title, they deemed it important to confirm them by law, while they yet had power
to do so.
Under these circumstances the statute in question was
passed, at the fession of the General Court held in October,
1684.
In February of the ensuing year, James II succeeded to
the crown; and at the. following May session of the General
Court, another statute was passed, of the following tenor:
"This court, for the prevention of future trouble, and that

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. CJOLT.
Argument for the purchaser.

every township's grants of lands, as it bath been obtained by
gift, purchase, or otherwise, of the natives, or grant of this
court, may-be settled upon them, their heirs, successors and
assigns forever, according to our charter granted by his late
majesty of happy memory; this court doth order that every
township in this colony shall take out patents for their said
grants of the Governor and Company, &c.
"The like course may be taken fbr all farms granted to any
person or persons whatever within this colony."*
The fears of the colony were well founded, for in June of
the same year, a quo warranto was issued to the Governor
and Company of Connecticut, citing them to appear before
the king within eight days of St. Martin, but this writ was
not served until after the day named for their appearance
had passed., On the 21st of December of the same year
another writ was issued, citing them to appear before the
king within eight days of the Purification of the Blessed
Virgin.
These facts, some of which are matter of history and
others gathered from the records of the colony, show beyond any question, that the object of this statute was to confirm existing grants to the uses specified in the statute, and
to authorize future grants to the same uses by exempting
them from the operation of the English statutes of mortmain, and placing them on the same footing merely as
grants of land to individuals, or for any other lawful purpose, and not with any View to render lands so granted forever inalienable.
IIt is said that because this statute was in conflict with the
English statites of inortmain, and might on that ground be
made an additional cause of complaint against the colony, it
was not recorded with the other public acts at the time it
was passed, but withheld from record for several years, until
the agitation in respect to the charter had ceased. It first
appeared among the public acts in the wevision of 1702, and
thus came to be called the statute of 1702. In the revision
the phraseology of the act was slightly changed.t
*3 Trumbull's Col. Reo: 179.

t See supra, p. 120. REi@.

STANLEY V. COLT.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

The words of perpetuity employed in it are those only
.which in substance are employed in all deeds and grants,
and such as it is customary and proper to employ where
titles are to be confirmed by statute, and where natural oi
artificial persons incapable of holing lands are authorized
by law to do so.
Our views in regard to the object and true construction
of this statute are further confirmed by the history of a case
that arose very soon after the act was passed.
In 1689, John Liveen, of New London, died, leaving a
will made just before his decease, by which he bequeathed
and devised the greater part of his estate to the " ministry
of New London," to be improved for them by his executors
who were General Fitz John Winthrop and Major Edward
Palms. The executors treated the devise as void, on the
ground that it was within the English statutes of mortmain,
and they contended that the Connecticut statute of 1684 was
void, because in conflict with the laws of England.
A suit was brought against the executors by the town of
New London on behalf of the ministry, and the town recovered judgment. The cause was taken by appeal to England,
and was in litigation there for several years, but the records
of the colony do not disclose the result.
We have already shown that the Connecticut statute of
charitable uses has been held by the Supreme Court of that
State to be substantially a copy of the statute of Elizabeth
concerning charitable uses. Both should therefore receive
the same construction; but it has never been held in England that lands given to charities were thereby rendered inalienable., On the contrary, it has always been the practice
of the Court of Chancery to order a sale of such lands when
a sale is shown to be for the interest of the beneficiaries.*
The Connecticut statute being a re-enactment of th'e statute of Clizabeth, should, as we have said, upon general prin* Parke's Charity, 12 Simons, 329; Ex parte the Governor, &c., 13 English Law and Equity, 145; Attorney-General v. Hungerford, 2 (lark &
Finelly, 145; Attorney-General v. Kerr, 2 Bevan, 428; Archbishop of
York's Case, I' Id. 495; Re Colsten Hospital, 27 Id. 17.

Dec. 1866.]

STANILEY. V.

COLT.

Argument for the purchaser.

ciples receive the same construction, and it always has re,
ceived the same construction by the legislature of the Col.
ony and of the State, in the exercise of the jurisdiction in
regard to the sale of charity lands, exercised in England by
the Court of Chancery.
The records of the State show that between the years 1670
and 1862, five hundred and seventy-five private acts, authorizing the sale of lands, were passed. A great number of
these acts were for the sale of charity lands.
Charities are under the perpetual guardianship of the sovereign power. The general superintendence of them in England is delegated to the Court of Chancery.*
In Connectieut this superintendence is mainly exercised
by the legislature. In Connecticut, as in England, it is a
rule of public policy to require trustees for a charity to obtain\ the assent of the public authority exercising this guardianship to a sale of charity estates, in order to protect the
charity against imprudent sales. This alone is the object of
the law. It is a rule established for the protection of the
cestui que trust.
Lands, as we have endeavored to show, are not rendered
inalienable by being given to charitable uses, but set apart
as constituting* fund to be used in a provident and judicious manner, to promote the object for which they are
given, and this provident and judicious manner as much requires a sale, when by chance of circumstances the property
has become unproductive, but can be made productive by a
sale, as under other circumstances it requires the property
to be preserved and kept.
When the statute says, therefore, that lands given to charitable uses " shall forever remain to the uses to which they
have been or shall be given or granted, according to the true
intent and meaning of the grantors, and to no other use
whatever," it is to be understood not as meaning that the
land should never be sold, not as giving the donor power to
say that, but as providing and declaring that the fund shall
never be diverted from the use to which it may be dedi
Vidal v. Girard's Executors, 2 Howard, 195.

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[fS1p. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

cated, sulject, however, to such changes from time to time
as the interest of the society may require.
A statute which rendeped all charity lands forever inalienable, or which gave the donor power to render them so by
imposing conditions against alienation, Would be so clearly
contrary to public policy, that the court would never so construe it if it admitted of' any other rational interpretation.
We say in the next place that it cannot be presumed that
this testator intended to impose a condition against a legislative sale, even if he did against a sale by his trustees or by
the society.
When this will was made the charter of Charles II wap
the organic law of the State. Under this charter the General Assembly had the same power of legislation as the Parliament of Great Britain.*
The testator knew that whatever his wishes might be in
regard to a sale, the legislature had power to authorize a
sale, and that a sale by authority of law would not work a
forfeiture.
It must therefore be a~sumed that he made his will and
imposed this condition (if it be a condition) in subordination
to the power of the legislature to order a sal ,t
III. Assuming that this was a conditional devise, and that
the condition was valid if; as we have endeavored to show, at
the time when this will was made, and when the trusts of
the will took effect, the legislature had power to authorize a
sale, and to control, in this respect, the intention of the testator, it must be admitted that the legislature possessed the
same power when it did authorize a-sale, unless in the meantime it .ad been deprived of it by some constitutional restriction. It is for the plaintiff to show that by some provision in the Constitution of the United States or of the
State of Connecticut, the legislature of Connecticut was
prohibited from the exercise of this power, and that the act
in question was therefore void.
* Starr v. Peask, 8 Connecticut, 548; Pratt v. Allen, 13 Id. 119.

f Clark's Executors v. Hayes, 9 Gray, 429.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V.

COLT.

157

Argument for the purchaser.

Courts will not declare an act of the legislature void, unless it is a clear and unequivocal violation of the Constitution.*
The constitution of the State of Connecticut is not a grant
of legislative power; it is merely a limitation imposed upon
pre-existing power.j"
Assume that it is beyond the scope of legislative power to
pass a law taking away or impairing a vested right of property, and that upon general principles, such a law would be
void, the question remains, whether the act in question is of
that character.
A right of property, in order to be within the protection
of this principle, must not only be a vested right (not a mere
possibility), but it must also be a beneficial interest. If, as
we assert, the legal title of the land vested in the trustees,
the heirs of the testator could have no beneficial interest in
a breach of condition by the trustees.T
Suppose there had been no act of the legislature, and the
hlir at law had entered for condition broken, all he would
gain by an entry would be the naked right to hold the legal
estate for the beneficiaries till *a court of chancery should
exercise the power of appointing new trustees.
Therefore, if the court should come to the conclusion that
the legal estate was vested in these trustees to hold upon
trust, and that there was a breach of a condition attached
to that legal estate,'aud an entry by which the heir vested
himself with that legal estate, but for the act of the legislature, there cannot be the least difficulty in saying that the
legislature might control that interest either before or after
breach.
But if the court should come to the conclusion that the
legal estate vested in the society, and not in the trustees, we
insist that the heirs at law of the testator, by virtue of a conlition against alienation, would not in that case, before conCooper v. Telfair, 4 Dallas, 114; Sharpleps v The Mayor, 21 Pennsyl.
vania State, 160.
f Starr v. Pease, 8 Connecticut, 648; Pratt v. Allen, 18 Id.. 119.
$ Sanderson v. White, 18 Pickering, 383.

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

dition broken, have an interest in the property beyond the
control of the legislature..
Admitting that the power of the legislature is so far limited and restricted by general principles of law that it cannot, by any act of legislation, destroy or impair a vested and
beneficial right in property, it would not follow that the act
in question was void.
The plaintiffs, in order to show to the court that this act
was void, must go much further than this, and maintain that
the power of the legislature is so limited and restricted that
any act is void, the effect of which would be to destroy or
impair (for vhatever cause) not a vested and beneficial interest in property, but the most remote and contingent interest. The interest of which they say this act deprives
them was both contingent and remote, a mere possibility of
reverter, and so little regarded by the common law that it
could not be conveyed or devised.-*
This the plaintiffs cannot show.
It cannot ,be maintained that the legislature of Connecticut has any less power to unfetter estates by cutting off remote and contingent interests of this character than the
Court of Chancery in England.
Yet in Plall v. Sprigy, reported by Vernon,t trustees were
ordered to join in cutting off a contingent remainder to the
heir at law. Again: In Fruwin v. Coudton, in 1st Equity
Cases Abridged,J also in Winnington v. Foley, in 1st Peere
Williams.§ Tipping v. Piggol, in 1st Equity Cases Abridged,II
is a very strong case. There the trustees, without any order
of the court, joined in making a new settlement, thereby cutting off a contingent remainder to the heir at law. On a bill
filed by the heir at law to have this new settlement set aside
the court declined to set it aside, the chancellor saying, that
although it was an imprudent thing for the trustees to do
without the sail otion of the court, yet as he pproved of the
settlement he would not disturb it.
Smith v. Pendell, 19 Connecticut, 111; 4 Kent's Com. 11, 127, 447.
I Page 385.
Page 536.
1 Page 886.
Vol. 2, p. 303.
V

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.

159

Argument for the purchaser.

In these cases the right of which the heir at law was do
prived by the court was a mere naked possibility.
In this case the right of which he has been deprived by
the legislature was the same.
In this country, laws affecting such contingent rights in
property have never been held to be beyond the scope of
legislative power. Cases' sustaining such laws are very numerous. We shall refer to only a few of them.
Thus it has been held that the legislature might take
away a contingent right of dower or courtesy.*
Also, the contingent right of the husband in the choses in
action of the wife.t
Also, the possibility of reverter to the owner of the fee, in
land taken for a street in a city, on the ground that the interest thus taken is too remote to be deemed an interest, in
property of any value.1
So an act of the legislature by which an estate in fee tail
was declared to be a fee simple in the grantees of the tenant
in tail, who were infants, and which authorized a sale of the
land, was declared valid.§
So a law empowering a court of equity to order the sale
of real estate owned in common, where partition would not,
in the opinion of the court, be advantageous to the owners.I
And so, a statute validating the levy of execution in cases
where the levy was void, for the reason that the officer had
included in his return fees not allowed by law.
It must be admitted that the act under consideration in the
last case was not only retrospective, but affected essentially
vested right's of property; yet inasmuch as those rights of
Strong v. Clem, 12 Indiana, 87; ,Thurber & Stevenson v. Townsend &
Wilbur, 22 New York, 517.
l- Barbour vi Barbour, 46 Maine, 9; Clarke v. McCreary, 12 Smede.s and
Marshall, 847.
I People v. Kerr, 27 New York, 188.
De Mill v. Lockwood, 3 Blatchford, 66.
Richardson v. Monson, 23 Connecticut, 94.
q Beach v.Walker, 6 Id. 190, and see' Goshen v. Stonington, 4 Id. 209;
Mather v.Chapman et al., 6 Id. 54.

STANLEY V. COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

property were not unjustly affected, the act was declared to
be valid.
So a private act of the legislature, divorcing a woman from
her husband, was held to be valid, though its effect was to
deprive a creditor of the husband of a vested estate in the
lands of the wife acquired by the previous levy of an execution 0n the husband's estate therein.*
These last three cases arose in Connecticut. In Massachusetts and in Pennsylvaniat it has beeu decided that a law
which changed the tenure of estates by declaring ait joint
tenancies to be tenancies in common, was constitutional and
valid.
Private acts authorizing tenants for life and trustees to
support remainders, to sell real estate devised, and convert
the same into personal estate, to be held subject to -the same
provisions and trusts as the land, are numerous, and have
always been sustained, though in opposition to the will of
,the testator; and although the effect was to compel those in
remainder to take personal estate instead of the real estate
devised, and in which they had both a vested and valuable
interest. 1
It cannot be denied that in each of the cases just referred
to, and given in the note below,T the law took away or modified and controlled interests in property more immediate and
tangible than any which the plaintiffs had under the will in
question.
From the whole tenor of Mr. Stanley's will it is apparent
that this society was the sole object of the testator's bounty
in respect to the land in question, and that this condition
(if there be a condition) was imposed for the purpose of protecting the society in the enjoyment of it, and not to enable
the heir at law to depr'ive them of it.
* Starr v. Pease, 8 Id. 541.
t Holbrook v. Finney, 4 Massachusetts, 568; Annable v. Patch, 3 Pickering, 863, and Bambaugh v Bambaugh, 11 Sergeant & Iawle, 191.
$ Norris v. Clymer, 2 Barr, 284; Blagg v. Mills, 18 C. C. R. 427; Sobier v. Massachusetts General Hospital, 3 Cushing, 483; Rice v. Parkman,
16 Massachusetts, 826; Clarke v. Van Sarlay, 15 Wendell, 436.

"Dec. 1866.]

161

STANLEY V. COLT.
Argument for the purchaser.

There is no limitation in favor of his heirs at (aw, no devise over, nor any other provision in the will tending; to shorw
that the testator ever intended or expected that his heirs at
law would succeed to the estate in any event.
From the authorities already cited it appears that it is the
constant practice of the legislature where the power has not
been delegated by the legislature to the courts, and of 1the
courts where the power has been delegated, to authorize a
sale of the lands of infants, idiots, lunatics, and others, who
are not sui juris. This is done in the exercise of a tutelary
authority on the part of the legislature as parenspatrice. C. J.
Parker, of Massachusetts, says that " this power must rest
commnwealth, that body being
in
alone competent to act as the general guardian and protector
of those who are incompetent to act for themselves."*
Now the power to authorize the sale of the lands of a
charity is derived from the same source, and rests upon the
same principles. A charity is never, so to speak, sui )uris;
it is under perpetual guardianship, and its guardian is the
State. It is for this reason that the trustees are prima facie
guilty of a breach of trust in selling the estate of a charity
without authority derived from the State. And we submit
that it is not in the power of a donor to a charity so to fetter
the State as to prevent the sovereign power from authorizing
a lawful disposition of the estate given to the charity, its
ward, when it is clearly made to appear that it will be for
the interest of the charity. This never has been done, and
we contelid that it cannot be done. We do not mean to
assert that -the State may divert the fund from the use to
which it is giyen. What we say is, that the State may
authorize such modal changes in the property from time to
time as may be found to be nUeessary and proper, and that
Rice v. Parkman, 16 Massachusetts, 828; and see Sohier v. Massachusetts General Hospital, 8 Cushing, 483; Blagge v. Mills, I Story, 426; Davison v. Johonnot, 7 Metcalf, 888; Clarke v. Van Surlay, 15 Wendell, 436;
Cochran v. Van Surlay, 20 Id. 865; Bambaugh v. Bambaugh, 11 Sergean,

& Rawle, 191 ; Estep v. Hutchman, 14 Id. 435.
ter, 19 New York.. 445.
VOL

V.

11

See also Leggett v. Hun-

STANLEY V. COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the purchaser.

it is not in'the power of a donor to provide that this shall
not be done.
Ev6n if this were a law impairing the obligation of any
contract, how could it avail the plaintiffis? If there is any
compact it is that the land shall forever be devoted to pious
or charitable uses. Is the heir at law asking to have this
compact observed and performed? Is he intending to devote the land to those uses? Clearly. not; he is seeking to
recover the land, not for the use of the society, in order that
the supposed compact may be executed, but for his own
private use.
The courts of Connecticut, in some early cases, involving
the right of the State to tax such land, may speak of the exemption contained in the statute as a compact or pledge on
the part of the State that lands given should be forever exempt from taxation. These decisions have, we think, recently been overruled, and in Brainard v. Town of Colchester,* the court say, that "there is nothing in the language of
the statute which makes it differ from ordinary statutes specifying what should or should not be subject to taxation."
The notion that any general law of the State is in the nature of a compact between the State and the citizen, is erroneous, and there is no force in the suggestion that this
statute of 1702 created anything in the nature of a compact
between the State and any one.
The power which the legislature of Connecticut exercised
in this case it has exercised unquestioned for two hundred
years, and this in itself would be a sufficient vindication of
its right to continue to exercise it.
There is an additional consideration, growing out of the
long-continued practice of the legislature in passing such.
acts as this, of so iuch importance as to have been deemed
worthy of special consideration by courts in similar eases.
That consideration is the effect which a decision against the
validity of this act would have in unsettling other titles to
land. In Davidson v. Johonnot,t the court declares that
* 31 Connecticut, 409.

t 7 Metcalf, 888.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V.

COLT.

16l

Opinion of the court.

the vast amount of property now held under titles derived
from similar legislative acts should lead us to proceed most
cautiously in the investigation of this subject, and to deal
with it in a liberal spirit when called upon judicially to declare that this course of legislation conflicts with the constitution, and that all the special acts of this character are of
no validity. And in Norris v. Clymer,* a case in the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, Chief Justice Gibson, speaking of
the consequences in his own single State, says:
"It is not above the mark to say that ten thousand titles depend on legislation of this stamp, for many of those statutes
contained provisions for more than twenty distinct estates, and
could not the ruin that would be produced by disturbing them
be arrested by anything less than a convention to effect a constitutional sanction of them, the consummation would not be
dearly bought."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of che court.
This 'isan action of ejeetment by the heirs oF William
Stanley to recover for breach of condition a tract of land,
situate in the city of Hartford, devised by the ancestor to an
ecclesiastical society and their successors, on the 7th October,
1786; and one of the principal questions in the case is
whether or not the devise was upon a condition, which, when
broken, would let in the heir, or was a limitation or trust,
the breach of which would work no such consequence.
The material parts of the will are as follows:
"I give and devise the whole of my real estate, of every
kind and description, . . . unto the Second or South Ecclesiastical Society, in the town of Hartford, to be and remain
to the use and benefit of said Second or South Society and
their successors forever." Then comes- the condition or
limitation upon the devise : " Provided, that said real estate
be not ever hereafter sold or disposed of, but the same be
leased or let, and the annual rents or profits thereof applied
to the use and benefit of said society, and the letting, leasing.
2 Barr, 284.

164

STANLEY V- COLT.

LSuP.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and managing of said estate to be under the management
and dix eetion of certain trustees hereafter named by me, and
their successors, to be appoinfted in manner as hereafter directed." And, after appointing three trustees, and prescribing the manner of the appointment of their successors, and
prescribing also their authority and duties, the testator adds:
And the aforesaid real estate, or any part thereof, shall
not be rented or let for a longer term or lease than thirty
years before the expiration of the same." And another part
of the will is as follows: "And, in case said Second Society
shall ever hereafter be divided, it is my will that my real
estate be not divided, but remain entire and forever to the
said Second Society; and such part of said Second Society
as shall hereafter secede or be divided therefrom are hereby
ekcluded from all the use and benefit of my real estate, so
devised as aforesaid to the said Second Society."
These are the several clauses in the will relating to the
management of the etate, following the proviso, and which,
taken together, constitute the conditions, limitations, or
qualifications annexed to it, and to the enjoyment of the estate by the society.
All of them may not be equally important, but we are
bound to assume that each and all of them were regarded
by the testator as material in the regulations which he has
seen fit to adopt and carry into his will.
These conditions or limitations following the proviso are
briefly1. The estate is not to be sold or disposed of, but to be
jeased by trustees, and the rents paid over to the society.
2. The leases are -not to exceed thirty years in any one
term.
3. The estate is not to be divided in. the event of a division
of the society; and4. It is to be managed ind directed exclusively by trustees
who are appointed in the will, and by their successors; the
surviving trustees to appoint when a vacancy happens.
The question is, whether these are strict common law
conditions annexed to the estate, a breach of which, or of

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Opinion of the court.

any one of them, will work a forfeiture, defeat the devise,
and let in the heir; or, g'hether they are regulations for the
guide of the trustees, and explanatory of the terms under
which he intended the estate should be managed, with a view
to the greatest advantage in behalf of the society ?
The difference between the two interpretations and the
consequences flowing from them, is very material. As we
have seen, a condition, if broken, forfeits the estate, and
forever thereafter deprives the society of the gift; and not
only this, but the heirs become seized of the first estate, and
avoids, of course, all intermediate charges or incumbrances,
and takes also free and clear al! the expenditures and improvements that may have been laid out on the property.
On the other hand, if these limitations are to be regarded
as regulations to guide the trustees, and explanatory of the
termis upon which the devise has been made, they create a
trust which those who take the estate are bound to perform;
and, in case of a breach, a court of equity will interpose and
enforce performance. The estate is thus preserved and devoted to the objects of the charity or bounty of the testator,
even in ease of a violation of the limitations annexed to it.
A fraudulent or unfaithful trustee will be removed, and another appointed to his place. A diversion of the fund will
be arrested, and an account compelled for any waste or improvident use of it.
Mr. Sugden, speaking of conditions, observes, that what
by the old law was deemed a devise upon condition would
now, perhaps, in almost every case, be construed a devise in
fee upon trust, and, by this construction, instead of the heir
taking advantage of the condition broken, the cestui que trust
can compel an observance of the trust by a suit in equity.*
In the recent case of Wright v. Wilkin, in the Queen's
Bench, the court approved of this observation of Mr. Sugden,
and in that case construed a devise, on express condilton in
terms, looking through the whole will, and regarding the
intent of the testator as falling within this rule. The court
* I Sugden on Powers, 123, 7th London ed.

STANLEY

V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion ,of the court,

relied very much upon the words following the condition aA
explaining away the strict common law meaning of the term,
and as importing a meaning inconsistent with a strict interpretation. This judgment was affirmed in the Exchequer.
It is true that the word "proviso" is an appropriate one
to constitute a common law cbndition in a deed or will, but
this is not the fixed and invariable meaning attached to it
by the law in these instruments. On the contrary, it gives
way to the intent of the parties as gathered from an examination of the whole instrument, and has frequently been thus
explained and applied as expressing simply a covenant or
limitation in trust. Several cases were referred to, on the
argument, to this effect, and many more might have been
added.
In looking at the explanatory part of the will irn this case,
it will be seen that the testator had in his mind a settlement
of the estate in trust for the beneficiaries, and with this view
established a code of regulations to guide the trustees in the
management of it that would continue through all time, and
which is wholly inconsistent with the idea that the estate
might be defeated by a-breach of any one of them. After
appointing the three trustees, he adds: "I do give authority
and power to nominate their successors to said trust, which
is to be done in the manner following: That immediately
after my decease they . . . shall appoint some meet persons, . . . as the occasion may require, into said trust or

office, so be it that at no time more than three persons shall
act in said trust or office; . . . and all persons, successors

hereafter to said trust and office, shall at all times in future
have like power to superintend, direct, and appoint their successors in said trust and office, and to perpetuate said trust
for the benefit and use of said society, as occasion may from
time to time require." And he closes by saying that the
said trustees and their successors shall have full power to
lease the estate, and "do all other legal acts for the wellordering and management of said estate, under the limitations and restrictions as hereinbefore expressed."
This interpretation of the devise was sought to be avoided

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Opinion of the court.

on the argument, by separating all the limitations and restrictions in respect to the enjoyment of the estate from thai
fbrbidding the sale or disposal of it, thereby conceding that
they were limitations in trust, but insisting that the other
constituted a condition for a breach of which a fbrfeiture
was incurred. But the difficulty, in the argument is that
the same clause embraces not only the prohibition to sell,
but enjoins the duty to lease, and the application of the rents
to the use of the society, and also the management of the
estate by the trustees, and which management contains the
prohibition to lease for terms not exceeding thirty years.
The separation is, therefore, not only arbitrary, but in disregard of the express words of the testator. The injunction
to lease is as positivef as that not to sell, and both are embraced in the same clause ; and if the term " proviso " is to
be construed as a condition in respect to the one, it must
consistently be so construed in respect to the other. And
the same observations are also applicable to the other limitations.
This devise to the Ecclesiastical Society is in some respects peculiar. The possession; management, and control
of the estate are given exclusively to the trustees, who, according to the regulations, are invested with power to perpetuate their authority indefinitely. The only active duties
of the society-tie beneficiaries-is to receive the rents and
profits for their own use and benefit. Of course, the trustees, subject to the limitations and restrictions annexed to
the enjoyment of the estate, possess all the power and dominion over it that belongs to an owner, and are bound to
take the same care of it and exercise the same attention,
skill, and diligence in its management that a prudent and
vigilant owner would exercise over his own. They are
bound to rent the property, collect the rents, and pay them
over to the society, to protect the possession, prevent waste,
see that the taxes are paid, and, in the words of the testator,
do all other legal acts for the well-ordering and managemient of the estate." Being thus in the exclusive possession
and control of the property, and having devolved upon them

STANLEY V.

COLT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the manifold duties incident thereto, it is quite clear that the
trustees are clothed with the legal estate.
Mr. Jarman states the general principle: "The mere fact
that they are made agents in the application of the rents is
sufficient to give them the legal estate, as in the case of a
simple devise to A. upon trust to pay the rents to B. ; and it
is immaterial, in such case, that there is no direct devise to
the trustees, if the intention that they shall take the estate
can be collected from the will. Hence, a devise to the intent that A. shall receive the rehts and pay them over to B.
would clearly vest the estate in A."
The same efihet where
the duty is devolved upon them to pay taxes and make repairs.t And it is laid down generally that whenever a trust
is created~a legal estate sufficient for the execution of the
trust shall, if possible, be implied.t Indeed, it would be
very difficult, if not impossible, for the trustees in the present ease to execute their various and multiplied duties over
this property without being clothed with the legal estate,
under a mere naked power.
The distinction between a power and a trust is marked
and obvious. Powers, as Chief Justice Wilmot observed,
are never imperative; they leave the act to be done at the
will of the party to whom they are given. Trusts are always
imperative, and are obligatory upon the conscience of the
party intrusted.§
Our conclusion is, that the construction urged by the
plaintiffs, of the will, importing a condition,_ a breach of
which forfeits the devise, is not well founded.
There is another ground of defence to this action that we
are of opinion is equally conclusive against the plaintiffs.
On an applicatibn of the society and trustees to the legislature of Connecticut to be permitted to sell the premises in
question, setting out the reasons at hrge in support of it,
the application was granted, and an act passed accordingly.
2 Jarman on Wills, 202, Perkins's Ed.

:1 Lewin on Trusts and Trustees, 164.
2 Sugden on Powers, 688.

t Id. 201, and cases cited.

Dec. 1866.]

STANLEY V. COLT.
Opinion of the court.

This act authorized the trustees, together with a third person, to sell the lands in the manner therein prescribed, and
to invest the proceeds at interest, in bonds and mortgages
of real estate of double the value of the amount invested,
appropriating the interest to the use of the society, in the
same manner, and subject to the same use, as the rents or
inc6me of said property are by the will required to be appropriated.
The defendant is in possession under the title derived from
a sale in pursuance of this act of the legislature.
In England, and in this country where a court of chancery exists, a charity of the description in question is a peculiar subject of the jurisdiction of that court, and in cases of
abuse, or misuse of the charity by the trustees or agents in
charge of it, this court will interpose to correct such abuses,
and enforce the execution of the charitable purposes of the
founder. So, by lapse of time, or 'changes as to the condition of the property and of the circumstances attending it,
have made it prudent and beneficial to the charity to alien
the lands, and vest the proceeds in other funds or in a different manner, it is competent for this court to direct such
sale and investment, taking care that no diversion of the
gift be permitted. Lord Langdale, the master of the rolls,
observed, in The Attorney- General v. The South Sea Conipany,*
"It is plain that in ordinary cases a most important part of
this duty is to preserve the property, but it may happen that
the purposes of the charity may be best sustained and promoted by alienating the specific property. The law has not
forbidden the alienation, and this court, upon various occasions, with a view to promote interests of charities, has not
thought it necessary to preserve the property in specie, but
has sanctioned its alienation."t
This power, in the State of Connecticut, it appears, is exercised by its legislature, as in the present instance. Many
acts of the kind have been referred to in .the argument, ex" 4 Bevan, 458.
j- See also Lewin on Trusts and Trustees, 373, and cases; and Shelford
on Law of Mortmain, 687.

Time DASHING WAVE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

tending through a long series of years down to the present
time.
We cannot doubt that the power exists in the legislature,
and it is not for this court to revise the facts upon which it
has seen fit to exercise it.
Mr. Justice DAVIS dissented.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE DASHING WAVE.
1. A neutral, professing to be engaged in trade with a neutral port, under
circumstances which warrant close observation by a blockading squadron, must keep his vessel, while discharging or receiving cargo, so clearly
on the neutral side of the blockading line as to repel, so far as position
can repel, all imputation of intent to break the blockade. Neglect of
that duty may well justify capture and sending in for adjudication;
though, in the absence of positive evidence that the neglect was wilful,
it might not justify a condemnation.
2. 'Where a party, whose national character does not appear, gives his own
money to a neutral house, to be shipped with money of that house and
in their name, to a neutral port in immediate proximity to a blockaded
rgion, and an attorney in fact, on capture of the money and libel of it
as prize, states that such neutral house are the owners thereof, and that
11no other persons are interested therein," the capture and sending in
will be justified; though in the absence of proof of an enemy's character in the party shipping his money with the neutral's, a condemnation
may not be.
3. On a capture of a vessel unobservant, through mere carelessness, of the
duty first above mentioihed, and containing money shipped under the
circumstances just stattod, a decree was made restoring the vessel and
cargo, including the money; but apportioning the costs and expenses
consequent on the capture ratably between the vessel and the coin, exempting from contribution the rest of the cargo.

DURING the late Rebellion, and while the coast of the South-

ern States, including that of Texas to the mouth of the Rio
Grande, was under blockade by the United States, the Dashing Wave, a British-owhled brig, was captured at anchor by
a United States gunboat, off the mouth ofthat river, the di.

