268

CROXALL V.

SIIERERD.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

in the technical language of the common law, office found,
or its legal equivalent. A legislative act, directing the possession and appropriation of the land, is equivalent to office
found. The mode of asserting or of assuming the forfeited
grant, is subject to the legislative authority of the government. It may be after judicial investigation, or by taking
possession directly, under the authority of the government,
without the e prelilinary proceedings.* In the present instance we have seen the laws have been extended over this
tract, the lands surveyed, and put on sale, and confirmed
to the occupants or purchasers, and, in the meantime, an
opportunity given to all settlers and claimants to come in
before a board of commissioners and exhibit their claims.
This is a legislative equivalent for the reunion by office
found.
Upon the whole we are quite satisfied that, consistent with
the principles, in the light of which we are directed by the
act of Congress to examine into the validity of this title, the
complainants have failed to establish it. We have felt justifled in applying to the case these principles with reasonable
strictness and particularity, as it is nearly, if not wholly, destitute of merit.
Decree of the court below reversed, and ease remanded
with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

CROXALL V. SIIERERD.
1. As a general thing, any legal conveyance will have the same effect upon
an equitable estate that it would have upon the like estate at law; and
whatever is true at law of the latter is true in equity of the former. The
rule, in Shelley's case, applies alike to equitable and to legal estates; and
an equitable estate tail may be barred in the same manner as an estate
tail at law.
2. A use limited upon a use is not affected by the statute of uses. The stat-,
ute executes but the first use. In the conveyance by deed of bargain and
Fairfax v, Hunter, 7 Cranch, 603, 622, 631; Smith v. Maryland, 6 Id.
286

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL

V.

SIIERrIm.

269

Statement of the case.
sale the whole force of the statute is exhausted in transferring the legal
title in fee simple to the bargainee, and the second use remains as a trust.
3. A private act of the legislature of New Jersey (passed in 1818), by which
an estate meant to be settled in apparently some sort of tail, but over the
deed settling which (executed in 1793) doubtsund difficulties of law hung,
making the rights of the several parties uncertain,--the object of which
private act was to dock the entail, unfetter the estate, and divide it equally
between children in fe,-was held to be a proper exercise of the legislative power to effect an assurance of title through a private statute, and
valid; all parties in interest in esse at the time having been before the
legislature, and having either asked for the act or consented that it should
pass, and there being no ground for imputation on amy of them of fraud,
indirection, or concealment ; the partition, moreover, laving been made
by disinterested commissioners, having been equal and fair, and all parties in esse in interest having confirmed it by conveyances and releases
mutually made.
4. A purchaser boa fide holds adversely to all the world, and may disclaim
the title under which he entered, and set up, even as against his vendor,
any title whatever.
5. A remainder is to be considered as vested when there is a person in
being who would have an immediate right to the possession upon the
ceasing of the intermediate particular estate. And it is never to be
held contingent when, coniistently with intention, it can be held vested.
6. Under the act of the New Jersey legislature, of June 5, 1787 (Q 2), declaring that thirty years' actual possession, where such possession was
obtained by a fair and bone2fide purchase of any person supposed to have
a legal right and title, shall vest an absolute right and title in the possessor and occupier, no qualification is made as to issue in tail ; and
where a special verdict found that the defendant obtained possession by
a bond fide purchase fron a party in possession, and supposed to have a
valid title, and the court held that the estate in remainder of the party
in possession, and supposed to have the valid title, was a vested remainder,-not a contingent one,-the case was considered to be brought
within the meaning of the statute as within its letter.

Tiiis was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey.
Robert Morris Croxall, the plaintiff ii error, in Septenber, 1863,-the year is important,-hrought ejectment in
that court to recover certain premises in -New Jersey. The
jury found a special verdict, in substance thus;
On the 15th of November, 1793, Robert Morris, being
seized in fee simple of certain lands in the State just named,
an indenture tripartite was made between hun, of the first
part, Charles Croxall and Mary, his wife, of the second, and

CROXALL V.

SIIERERD.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the cgse.

Robert Morris, Jr., Adam Hoops, and Aaron Dickinson
Woodruff, of the third. The deed set forth that for the better settling and assuring of the lands therein described, and
intended to be conveyed and settled upon the uses and subject to the trusts, and for the purposes thereinafter limited,
and in consideration of' ten shillings paid to the said Robert
Morris by the said Robert, Jr., Adam, and Aaron, the said
Robert Morris thereby conveyed to the parties of the third
part, and to their heirs, the land situated, &e. The habendum was thus:
"To have and to hold the said messuage, lands, &c., to the
said Pobert, Jr., Adam, and Aaron, their heirs and assigns, to
the uses, trusts, intents, and purposes hereinafter' mentioned,
limited, expressed, and declared of and concerning the same;
that is to say, to the use and behoof of the said Charles Croxall and his assigns, for and during the term of his natural life;
and from and immediately after the decease of the said Charles
to the use and behoof of the said Mary, his wife, and her assigns, for and during the term of her natural life, in case she
shall happen to survive the said Charles; and from and after
the determination of' the said estates so limited to them, the
said Charles and Mary, his wife, for their several and respective
lives, to the use and behoof of the said Robert, Jr., Adam, and
Aaron, and their heirs, for and during the lives of them, the
said Charles and Mary, his wife, and the life of the longer liver
of them, upon trust to preserve the contingent uses and remainders thereof, hereinafter limited, from being destroyed, and to
and for that purpose to make entries as occasion shall require,
but not to convert any of the profits of said premises to their
own uses, but nevertheless in trust to permit arid suffer the said
Charles, and his assigns, during his natural life, and after his
death, the said Mary, his wife, and her assigns, during her natural lify to receive and take the rents, issues, and profits of all
and singular the said premises, with the appurtenances, to and
for their respective uses and benefits; and from and immediately
after the death of the survivor of them, the said Charles and
Mary, his wife, then to the use and behoof of the heirs of the
body of the said Mary, by her present husband lawfully begotten, oi to be begotten, and to the heirs of his, her, and their

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V. SHEIERD.

271

Statement of the cvse.

bodies lawfully to be begotten; and in default of such issue,
then to the use and behoof of the said Robert Morris, party of'
the first part to these presents, and of his heirs and assigns forever, and to or for or upon no other use, trust, intent, or pur.
pose whatsoever."
The grantees thereupon became seized of the premises,
and Charles Croxall and his wife, and their assigns, occupied and possessed them, and received and enjoyed the
profits until the premises were divided as hereinafter stated
among the children of the said Charles and Mary; Charles
Croxall, prior to 1817, having erected a mansion-house upon
that part of the premises now in dispute.
Mary, the wife of Charles Croxall, was the daughter of
the grantor, Robert Morris, and was married to the said
Charles long prior to the making the indenture, and had by
him before, as well as after it was executed, several children,
all of whom died unmarried and without issue in the lifetime of' their parents, except four, namely: Thomas, Daniel,
Ann Maria (who intermarried with Claudius Legrand), and
Morris Croxall, who severally survived their parents, the
said Charles and Mary,-the said Thomas being the eldest,
and having been borti prior to the execution of the said
deed.
Mary Croxall died in July, 1824, and Charles Croxall in
November, 1831. Thomas Croxall was married in the year
1813, and had nine children,-three of whom died without issue in the lifetime of their father. The remaining six,
of whom one was Robert Morris Croxall, the plaintiff, survived the said Thomas, and were still living. This Robert
Morris Cr'oxall, the only surviving son, was born on the 19th
of March, 1821.
Tho-mas Croxall died in October, 1861.
On the 26th June, 1798, Charles Croxall and Mary, his
wife, for the consideration of five shillings, conveyed the
land by deed of bargain and sale to J. and W. Gallagher,
their heirs and assigns, for and during the life of the said
Charles, and after his death during the life of the said
Mary, if she should survive him, in trust out of the rents

272

CROXALL V. SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and profits to pay certain debts of the said Charles, and to
enable the said Mary to receive any sum, not exceeding four
hundred dollars per annum, and after the debts were satisfied
and the trustees reasonably compensated, to convey back
the premises to the said Mary, her heirs and assigns.
On the 11th July, 1804, the Gallaghers conveyed the lands
to Maryv Croxall, to hold the same during lifb.
In December, 1807, the Court of Errors .and Appeals of New
Jersey, in a suit in chancery, wherein the Gallaghers were
complainants, and Charles and Mary Croxall were respondcnts, decreed that the appellants, upon certain terms and
conditions set forth, should deliver possession of the entire
estate to Charles and Mary Croxall, and that they should
convey the same to the said Mary, her heirs -and assigns,
purouant to their agleement of June 26th, 1798. The conditions of the decree were complied with, and the Gallaghers
conveyed to Mary Croxall accordingly.
On the 1st of July, 1814, Charles and Mary Croxall executed to their two sons, Thomas and Daniel, a deed of bargain and sale for one undivided half of the property, with a
covenant that they had done nothing to encumber the estate,
and that they would warrant and defend against all persons
claiming under them, or either of them. There was also a
covenant for fu rther assurances.
On the 9th of May, 1808, all the interest of Charles Croxall
in the premises was sold under execution to William MeCulloghi, and a sheriff's deed executed. On the 17th of May,
1808, MeCullogh sold and conveyed to one Milner, who on
the next day, conveyed the premises to A. D. Woodruff,
Peter Gordon, and Jonathan Rhea, their heirs and assigns,
to hold them during' the natural lives of Charles and Mary
Croxall, in trust, for the sole and separate use of Mary during life, and also to preserve the same from waste, so that
after her death the same might entire to the heirs of her
body by the said Charles Croxall, to the uses declared by the
deed tripartite of 15th Novenhber, 1793, for the same premises. Shortly after the execution of the deed last mentioned,
and before the application to the legislature of New Jersey,

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V. SHERRD.

273

Statement of the case-

by Thomas Croxall, hereafter mentioned. Woodruff and
Rhea died, leaving Gordon the sole surviving trustee,
under the deed executed by Milner. Before that application also, Thomas, Daniel, and Anna Maria Croxall had arrived at majority, and Anna Maria had married, as before
stated. Morris Croxall arrived at majority in 1820. Prior
to that time and to the application to the legislature, Gordon
was his guardian.
In November, 1817, Thomas Croxall presented a petition
to the legislature, asking for the partition of the premises.
The petition stated that the title and right of possession for
life had become vested in Mary Croxall; and that in the
year 1814, she had, under the advice of counsel, conveyed
to the memorialist all her right and title to the undivided
part of the estate to which he, as an heir, laid claim. The
aid of the legislature was invoked for the reason, as stated,
that difficulties had arisen among the different branches of
the family in relation to the property, that the estate was so
situated as not to produce to its respective owners the income which it ought to yield, and that causes of litigation
frequently occurred.
Charles and Mary Croxall, Daniel
Croxall, Legrand and wife, and Morris Croxall, by Peter
Gordon, his guardian, submitted a remonstrance. The reinonstrance was afterward withdrawn, and with the consent
of all the parties, an,act of the legislaturewas passed February
14, 1818, wheh appointed three commissioners, with power to divide the estate into four equal parts, aul to set oft" a l apart to
each of the children of Charles and Mary C oxall, onie equal
fourth port by metes and bounds and in sereralty. This was aecording done. The preunses in dispute in this ease are a part
of the share set off to Morris Croxali. The heirs afterwards
mutually released and quit-claimed to each other according
to the partition so made. Charles and Mary Croxall joined
in the deeds. The deeds from Morris Croxall, and the deed
to him, were executed after he arrived at the age of twentyone years. Charles and Mary Croxall reserved for their use,
during their lives, a part of his share. This was not embraced in their deed to him. The premises in dispute are a
VOL. V.

18

274

CROXALL b. SLIIMERD.

[Sap.

Ct,

Statement of the case.

part of what was reserved. Thomas and Daniel Croxall,
with Legrand and wife, in 1819, upon the execution of the
(feeds to them respectively, took possession in severalty of
their respective shares, and held and enjoyed the same until
they severally sold and conveyed to Garrett D. Wall, as
hereafter stated. Morris Croxall did the same with respect
to his share, except as to the part reserved for the use of his
father and mother, which they occupied-he living with
them. Their oeupancy continued until the death of Mary,
in 1824. Charl, s continued his occupancy after her death,
until he also sold and conveyed to Wall. The deeds of the
several parlies to Wall were all executed in the year 1825. The
deed of Morris includes the land in dispute in this case. At
the time of the conveyance by Thomas Croxall, Wall held
three rtiortgages upon the premises constituting his share,
and had also bought the same, at a sale upon execution, and
received a deed from the sheriff. When Daniel conveyed,
Wall held a mortgage upon his share, and had also bought
in the property at a sale under execution, and received the
sheriff's deed accordingly. Wll had also taken up a mortgage executed by Morris Croxall before Morris conveyed to
him. Walt is dead. The mortgages are he]ld by his family
as muniments of title. On the 13th of September, 1825,
Charles Croxall, his wife being then dead., released and quitclaimed to Wall, all his interest in the entire premises so
conveyed to Wall, whether that interest was in his own right
or in right of his deceased wife. Wall paid the full value
of the several parcels of the property at the times when the
same were respectively conveyed. The lands have since
been greatly increased in value, by improvements put upon
them by Wall, and those who purchased from him. A large
portion of the town of Belvidere now stood upon them.
On the 25th January, 1827, Wall eonveyed to Shererd, the
defendant in the case, by deed of bargain and sale, for
the consideration of $2200, the full value of the property at
the time, a portion of the premises. They now made part of
the town of Belvidere. Upon the makng of Ike several deeds
(oWall he ini'ediately entered into possession under the con-

D ,c. 1866.]

275

CROXALL V. SHERERD.
Statement of the case.

veyances ; and Shererd, upon the making of the deed of conveyance
to him by Wall, immediately entered into possession as the owner,
and has ever since been in possession, and for one year prior to the
making of the deed he had been in possession as the tenant of Ill.
Possessionwas obtained by the defendant by a fair bong fide purchase of the propertyin question, of a party in possession, and supposed to have a legal right and title thereto.
Upon this special verdict, the court below gave judgment
for the defendant. The case was now on error in this court.
To understand the case fully, it is necessary to state that
in New Jersey the legislature, by a statute of August 25th,
1784* (explained by one of March 3d, 1786, and repealed
apparently by one in 1820), had enacted that"All devises heretofore made in tail as aforesaid, which have
not already passed through one descent since the death of the
testator, and also all such devises which shall hereafter be made
in tail of any kind, shall be deemed, taken, and adjudged to
vest in and entitle the person to whom the same may descend,
agreeably to the devise or entailment, after the decease of' the
first devisee, to all the estate in the devised premises which the
testator was entitled to and might or could have devised ; and
that no entailment of any lands, or other real estate, shall continue
to entail the same, in any case whatever, longer than. the life of the
person to whom the same hath been or shall be first given or devised
by such entailment."
Also, that an act to abolish fines and recoveries was passed
June 12th, 1799,t as on the following day an aett declaring
that from that day " no statute of the Parliamnent of England or Great Britain should have force within the State of
New Jersey."
Also, that (by act of June 5th, 1787, section 2d), §
"Thirty years' actual possession of any lands, tenements, or
other real estate, uninterruptedly continued as aforesaid, . . .
wherever such possession was obtained by a fair bona fide pur.
chase of such lands, tenements, or other real estate, of any
* Paters)n's Laws, 53, 78.

t Id. 411.

: Id. 436.

Id.

276

CROXALL v. SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

person or persons whatever in possession, and supposed to have
a legal right and title thereto, or of the agent or agents of such
person or persons, shall be a good and sufficient bar to all prioi
locations, rights, titles, conveyances, or claims whatever, not followed by actual possession as aforesaid, and shall vest an absolute right and title in the actual possessor and occupier of all
such lands, tenements, or other real estate."
The act had the usual exceptions in favor of infants, feme
coverts, &e., but not others.
The case was argued at much length, and most interestingly, on the whole learning of estates tail, contingent remainders, the rule in Shelley's case, and how far affected by
the statutes of New Jersey of 1786, 1799, and 1820, the different qualities of legal and equitable estates in connection
with the particular subject, the effects of the different sorts
of assurances at common law and under the statute of uses,
as also on the more usual learning of the private statute of
1818 and the statute of limitations of 1787. The fact that
the court apparently deemed it proper to rest its judgment
on these last grounds chiefly, and " not to go beyond them,"
will be a suflicient excuse for a very slight or no report of
so able and learned a discussion at the bar.
MBlessrs. Reverdy Johmnson, Brent, and Merriek, for the plaintiff in error:
The plaintiff, Robert Morris Croxall, is the great-grandson
of Robert Morris, and claims the benefit of the tripartite
deed of settlement, made in 1793. Mr. Morris, known as the
financier of our Revolution, settled the property in question
by this trust upon his son-in-law, Croxall, for life, and after
his death, if his wife survived, then upon his said wife, who
was Mary Croxall, the daughter of Mr. Morris, for life, and
in case of the determination of said life estates, to trustees to
preserve contingent remainders, and after the death of the
survivor of Charles and Mary Croxall, for the use of the heirs
of the body of said Mary by Charles, and the heirs of his,
her, or their bodies brever, and upon the failure of such
issue, to the heirs of said Robert Morris.

Dec. 1866.]

CtOXALL V.

SHERERD.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Mary Croxall did not survive her husband, but died in
July, 1824, leaving her son Thomas, the heir of her body
begotten by Charles, and in whom, as we maintain, the contingent remainder vested at her death subject to the outstanding life estate in Charles Croxall, who did not die until
1831.
The New Jersey statute of 26th August, 1784, does not
abolish entails or enable the tenant to (o so. It only provides that estates tail shall only continue during the life of
the firsttaker who dies seized of the entail as held by the
courts of New Jersey, and the next heir takes per formans
doni, but takes in fee.
The questions arising on this record will be1. Whether, by the deed of settlement, Thomas was not
the first tenant in tail? If so, as he survived until 1861, his
son, the plaintiff in error, would inherit the property by
primogeniture, taking, however, a fee, under the statutes of
New Jersey.
2. If Mary Croxall, and not her son Thomas, became the
first tenant in tail under the rule in Shelley's case,whether, as
she survived until 1824, and the act of 26th August, 1784,
restricting the entail, was itself repealed ia' her life by the
act of 1820, the entail of which she was seized under the
deed of 1793, did not continue and pass at her death in 1824
to her son Thomas, as second heir in tail, and at his death
in 1861 to his son, the plaintiff in error, no act of the previous tenants in tail having destroyed the entail ?
3. Whether, in the absence of a good parper title in the
defendant in error, his possession, taken and held under the
deeds of the tenants of the precedent estates, can operate to
bar the plaintiff, whose title performam doni accrued only in
1861, after the death of Thomas Croxall, the first or second
tenant in tail, as he may be held to be ?
The deed of settlement is in form a bargain and sale for
a nominal consideration, and therefore it raises the first use
impliedly in the trustees, and they took the legal title.
[The counsel then went into a learned argument to show

CROXALL V. SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct,,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

that Thomas Croxall was the donee or first tenant in tail.
and that he took a legal estate.]
Assuming our positions hei'e to have been made out, conceding that Thomas would have been the first heir in tail, it
vill probably be said that the private act of February 14th,
1818, authorizing a partition, virtually annulled the entail
and invested the heirs apparent with a title where none existed before.
We deny the legality of that act.
If the act be a legal one, then the legislature not only
destroyed the entail created by the grantor, but confiscated
the reversion in his heirs at law, and all this on the petition
of private parties, some of whom only represented life estates, and others represented not even a "scirdillajuris."
The legislature, we must think, were imposed on by ex
parte allegations made in the proceedings which led to the
enactment of this private act.
The parties protesting withdraw their opposition, and the
act passed for a division of Belvidere, as if all parties in
interest had assented.
This act assumes, incorrectly, a clear estate tail in Charles
and Mary Croxall, if the rule in Shelley's case applies, and is
obviously based on their assent, they being, according to the
assumption in the act, the tenants of the inheritance, and
willing that it should go at once to their children by an act
of partition in consideration of the annuity mentioned.
The legislature,.it is to be observed, use no language to
prejudice the rights of third parties, but merely authorize a
partition among the parties before them, assuming that they
represented a vested inheritance.
There are certain rules about this class of acts-a dangerous class, perhaps, in this country-well settled, and necessary to be remembered.
The presumption of law is, that in private acts the legislature only bind the parties before them, and not strangers
or third parties. The presumption must be made certainly
in regard to this act, which on its face breathes no aggressive
spirit towards other parties.

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V. SHERERD.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

No greater title can be conferred on the parties by a private act than they possessed before.*
Private acts passed on petition of parties are to be construed merely as private agreeriients.t
Blackstone shows that consent of all parties having remote
interest should be obtained.t
P'rivate statutes do not bind strangers, unless they have a
clause to that effect.§
In this case no party representing the inheritance was
privy to the private act; nor were the trustees, or their representatives, under the deed of 1793, consulted. Gordon was
not a substituted trustee.
It was decided, indeed, in Wes/by v. Kiernan, reported by
Ambler,[J that a private act passed to enable a tenant in tail
to raise money out of the entailed estate, bound the issue in
tail and the remainder, because tenant in tail could have
effheted the same object by a common recovery. But, in
New Jersey, the tenant tail cannot bar his issue, and he has
no power to alienate but during his life; nor was there,
according to our construction, any person before the legislature, represeuting any estate or interest, greater than a life
interest.
In New Jersey, especially, the courts have gone far to
rvstrain legislative control ove private property, and in no
form can it take A.'s property and give it to 13. The case
of Scudder v. fTrenton -DelawareFaidls Oonq)aly* announces
most con icrvative views on this topic.
Nor could this private act change the estates as held under
the old deed of 1793.
Thistle v. Thle -rosiurg Companyt
seems to be much in point.
* Hesse v. Stevenson, 3 Bosanquct & Puller, 578.

t Perehard v. Ieywood, 8 Term, 472.

2 Commentaries, 345.

Barrington's ease, 8 Reports, 136; Jackson v. Catlin, 2 Johnson, 263;

Jackson v. Cory, 8 Id. 388; Hornby v. Iloulditeh, cited in Ludford v. Barher, 1 Term, 93, n. ; Coolidge v. Williams, 4 Massachusetts, 140.
Vol. ii, p. 697.
Den v. Van Riper, 1 Harrison, 11. And see the State v. Reed, 4 lar.
ris & M cenry, 6, as to fraud in the obtention of a private act of the legislature.
** 1 Saxton, 694.
*110 Maryl
144.

CROXALL V.

SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court,

We do not deny the power of the legislature to abolish
the entail, but we deny that they have so intended or expressed that intention by this act of legislation. And certainly courts will not strain a private act to make it divest
the right of parties not uniting in obtaining the act.
But we must recover even if Mary Croxall was first tenant
in tail. [The learned counsel then argued at length in support of this position, not necessary, in view of the concessions
made by the court in its opinion, to be more than presented.]
Then, too, it will be said that the defendant in error is
protected by the New Jersey statute of limitations. But
the statute does not bar our right under the thirty years'
limitation, because our title did not accrue until 1861, when
Thomas, the first tenant in tail, died.
The English case of Iblson v. Kay* establishes, indeed,
that an adverse possession of twenty years against the first
tenant in tail will bar the next heir, but that does not reach
our case, inasmuch as the defendant holds merely as assignee
of Wall, who was assignee by deeds of quit-claim (or bargain
and sale, if you choose), of the tenants for life, and the first
tenant in tail, under our title paper.
Undoubtedly such an assignee cannot set up his possession as adverse, when his grantor held in conformity with
and under our title, being in fact only the occupier of a precedent estate.
Messrs. J. P. Bradley and F. T. Frelinghuysen, contra, for
the purchasers.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of thbe court.
Whether under the deed of Robert Morris of the 15th
November, 1793, Charles Croxall was tenant for life, remainder to Mary Croxall his wife, for life, remainder to their
son Thomas Croxall in tail-whether Mary Croxall was not
the donee in tail under the rule in Shelley's case, and if so,
whether her estate was a legal or equitable one-and whether
3 Broderip & Bingham, 217; 7 English Common Law, 420,

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V. SHERERD.

281

Opinion of the court.

Thomas Croxall was not the donee or first tenant in tail, and
if he were the first or the second tenant in tail, whether be
took a legal estate by the operation of the statute of uses,
then in force in New Jersey, or whether he took an equitable estate, the statute not executing the use created by the
deed for his benefit, are questions not without difficulty, and
upon which the views of some members of the court are not
in harmony with those of others. As there are grounds of
decision, not involving these inquiries, upon which we are
all united in opinion, except one member of the court, as to
one of the propositions, it is deemed proper to place our
judgment upon those grounds and not to go beyond them.
If Thomas Croxall, and not his mother, was the first tenant
in tail, taking under the deed by purchase, and not by limitation, it is immaterial whether his estate was legal or equitable. In the law, if real property, the principles which
apply to estates of both kinds, with a few limited exceptions
not affecting this case, are the same. In the consideration
of a court of equity, the cestui que trust is actually seized of
the freehold. He may alien it, and any legal conveyance by
him will have the same operation in equity upon the trust,
as it would have had at law upon the legal estate.*
The trust like the legal estate is descendible, devisable,
alienable, and barrable by the act of the parties, and by
matter of record. Generally, whatever is true at law of the
legal estate, is true in equity of the trust estate.t
The rule in Shelley's case applies alike to equitable and
to legal estates; : and an equitable estate tail may be barred
in the same manner as an estate tail at law, and this end cannot be accomplished in any other way.§
*"Burgess v. Wheate, Eden, 226; Boteler v. Allington, 1 Brown's Chancery, 72.
t Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jacob & Walker, 148; Walton v. Walton, 7
Johnson's Chancery, 270; Doe v. Laming, 2 Burrow, 1109; Philips o.
Brydges, 8 Vesey, 127.
I Garth v. Baldwin, 2 Vesey, Sr., 656; Pratt v. McCawley, 8 Harris, 264;
Fearne on Remainders, 121.
Squnders o-s Uses, 280; Williams on Real Property, 1565.

282

CROXALL V. SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

In Doe v. Oliver* the testator had devised lands to his wife
for life; remainder to the children of his brother who should
be living at the death of his Wife. But one child, a daughter,
was living at that time. She with her husband, in the lifetime of the devisee of the life estate, levied aine, and declared the use to A. B. after the death of the first devisee,
and the termination of her life estate.
A. B. brought an action of ejectment for the lahds, and
recovered. It was held that the fine had a double operation,
that it bound the husband and wife by estoppel or conclusion,
so lolg as the cojitingenci-s continued, and that when the
contingency happened, the estate which devolved upon the
wife fed the estoppel, that the estate by estoppel created by
the fine, ceased to be an estate by estoppel only, and became
an interest, and gave to A. B. exactly what he would have
had if the contingency had happened before the fine was
levied. If Mary Croxall took under the deed an equitable
contingent remainder for life, and Thomas at her death
would have taken a legal estate tail, if the estate still subsisted, the statute in his case, executing the use, then the
estates could not coalesce, one being legal and the other
equitable, and the rule in Shelley's case would not apply. In
that view of the subject Thomas and not his mother was the
donee in tail.
A use limited upon a use, is not executed or affected by
the statute of uses. The statute executes only the first use.
In the case of a deed of bargain and sale, the whole force of
the statute is exhausted in transferring the legal title in fee
simple to the bargainee. But the second use may be valid
as a trust, and enforced in equity according to the rights of
the parties.t
But without pursuing, the subject, let it be conceded, for
* 14 Barnewall & Creswell, 181.

t Doe
Sugdon's
4 Watts,
Leading

v. 1'assingham, 6 Barnewall & Creswell, 305; Gilbert on Uses,
note, 1 ; Jackson v. Cary, 16 Johnson, 304; Franciscus v. Reigart,
108; Williams on Real Property, 181; Roe v. Tranmarr, 2 Smith's
Cases, 611, note.

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL v. SHERERD.

288

Opinion of the court.

the purposes of this case, that Thomas Croxall was the donee
or first tenant in tail, and that he took a legal estate, as contended by the counsel for the plaintiff in error.
Taking this view of the subject, the first inquiry to which
we shall direct our attention is as to the effect of the act of
the legislature of the 14th of February, 1818, and of the proceedings which were had under it. All the parties in interest then in esse, were before the legislature, and asked for
the act, or consented that it should be passed.
There is no ground for the imputation upon either of them
of any fraud, indirection, or concealment. It is not denied
that the act was deliberately passed, nor that the partition
made under it by the commissioners was fair and equal; all
the parties testified their approbation, and confirmed it by
their subsequent conveyances. The legal doubts and difficulties which hung over the deed, the uncertainty of the
rights of the several parties; the learned and elaborate arguments, and conflicting views of the counsel, and our differences of opinion in this litigation, evince the wisdomn and
the equity of the act. It is as clear by implication as it
could be made by expression, that the object of the legislature was to dock the entail, and unfetter the estate. What
is implied is as effectual, as what is expressed.* If it were
possible for the parties and the legislature to accomplish this
object, it was thus done. had they the power ? When the
deed was executed, the statute de donis was in- force in New
Jersey, but modified by the acts of her legislature of the
25th of August, 1784, and of the 3d of March, 1786. Fines
and recoveries, as known in the English law, were then a
part of her judicial system. They were abolished by the
act of June 12th, 1799. By the act of 13th of June, 1799,
it was declared that no British statutes should thereafter
have any force within the State. The plaintiff's lessor was
the son of Thomas Croxall, and was born on the 29th of
March, 1821. Estates tail, under the statute de donis, were,
before the passage of the statute, known in the common
* United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 65.

CROXALL V.

SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

law as conditional fees. Like estates tail, they were limited
to particular heirs to the exclusion of others. The condition
was, that if the donee died, without leaving such heirs as
were specified, the estate should revert to the grantor. According to the common law, upon the birth of such issue,
the estate became absolute for three purposes:
1. The donee could alien, and thus bar his own issue and
the reversioner.
2. He could forfeit the estate in fee simple for treason.
Before he could only forfeit his life estate.
3. Ile could charge it with incumbrances. He might also
alien before issue born, but in that case, the effect of the
alienation was only to exclude the lord, during the life of
the tenant, and that of his issue, if such issue were subsequently bo-rn, while if the alienation were after the birth, its
effect was complete, and vested in the grantee a fee simple
estate.*
In this state of the law it became usual for the donee, as
soon as the condition was fulfilled by the birth of issue,
to alien, and tfterwards to repurchase the land. This gave
him a fee simple, absolute, for all purposes. The heir was
thus completely in the power of the ancestor, and the bounty
of the donor was liable to be defeated by the birth of the
issue, for whom it was his object to provide. To prevent
such results, and to enable the great families to transmit
in perpetuity the possession of their estates to their posterity, the statute de donis of the 13 Edward I, known as the
Statute of Westuinster the 2d, was passed. It provided,
"that the will of the donor, according to the fbrm in his
deed of gift manifestly expressed, should be observed, so
that they to whom a tenement was so given upon condition,
should not have the power of alienating the tenement so
given, whereby it might not remain after their death to their
issue, or to the heir of the donor, if the issue should fail."
Under this statute it was held that the donee had no longer
iLconditional fee governed by the rules of the common law,
* Plowden, 241.

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V.

SIHERERD.

Opinion of the court.

but that the estate was inalienable, and must descend "per
formam doni," or pass in reversion. The evils arising from
the statute were found to be very great. Repeated efforts
were made by the Commons to effbet its repeal. They were
uniformly defeated by the nobility, in whose interest the
statute was passed. It remained in force and was administered without evasion for about two centuries. In the
reign of Edward IV it was held in Tallarem's case,* that the
entail might be destroyed by a common recovery. The
effect of this process was to bar alike the issue, the reversioner, and all those to whom the donor had given other
estates expectant on the death of the tenant in tail without
issue. The demandant took an absolute estate in fee simtle.t
Fines were subsequently resorted to for the same purpose.
A statute of 32 Henry VIII declared a fine, duly levied by
the tenant in tail, to be a complete bar to him and his heirs,
and all others claiming under the entail. Oth'er incidents
were subsequently, from time to time, annexed to such
estates. By a statute of Ienry VII, they were made liable
to forfeiture for treason. At a later period they were made
liable for the debts of the tenant* to the crown, due by record
or special contract; and still later they were r mde liable for
all his debts in case of bankruptcy. The po, or to suffer a
common recovery has been invariably held to be a privilege
inseparably incident to an estate tail, and one which cannot
be restrained by condition, limitation, custom, recognizance,
or eovenant.l
Private acts of Parliament are one of the modes of acquiring title enumerated by Blaekstone. • They are resorted to
when the power of the courts of justice is inadequate to give
the proper relief and the exigencies of the case require the
interposition of the broader power of the legislature. They
were very numerous immediately after the restoration of
Charles II. The validity of statutes affecting private interYear Book, 12 Ed. IV, 14, 19.
t

2 Blackstone's Comm. 860; Cruise on Recoveries, 258.

1 Knowles's Argument in Taylor v. Horde, 1 Burrow, 84; Dewitt v. El
dred, 4 Sergeant & Rawle, 421.

CROXALL V.

SHERERD.

[Sup.

Ct,

Opinion of the court.

ests in specific real property has been repeatedly recognized
by this court.*
Blackstone says: "Nothing also is done without the consent expressly given of all parties in being, and capable of
consent, that have the remotest interest in the matter, unless 'such consent shall be perversely and without any reason
withheld."t Here all who were interested consented. No
interest vested or contingent of the lessor of the plaintiff in
error was involved; and no consent was asked of him, for
the reason that he was then unborn.
In Wcstb, v. Kicrnant it was held that a private act passed
to enable the tenant in tail to raise money bound the remainder. This involved the power to destroy the estate by incumbering the property to the full amount of its value.
We entertain no doubt that the act in question was valid,
and that the partition made under it, and the deeds subsequently executed, vested in each grantee a fee simple estate.
This was the necessary result, whatever the quantity and
character of the estates of Mary and Thomas Croxall at that
time.
It remains to consider the effect of the statute of limitation relied upon by the defendant in error. The second section of the act of the 5th of June, 1787, declares that thirty
years' actual possession, where such possession was obtained
by a fair and bona fide purchase of any person in possession
and supposed to have a legal right and title, shall vest an absolute right and title in the possessor and occupier. The deed
of Morris Croxall to Garrett D. Wall bears date on the 30th
of September, 1825. Wall conveyed to Shererd, the defendant, on the 5th of January, 1827. The special verdict finds
,hat Wall took possession at the date of the deed to him
from Morris Croxall, and held it until he conveyed to Shererd on the 5th of January, 1827, and that Shererd was continuously in possession from that time down to the com.
mencement of the suit, "and that possession was obtained
Stanly v. Colt, supra, 119

;

2 Ambler, 67.

f 2 Commentaries, 346.

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V. SHERERD.

287

Opinion of the court.

by the defendant by a fair and bona fide purchase of the
lands in question of a party in possession and supposed to
have a legal title thereto." The finding of the jury brings
the ease exactly within the terms of the statute. And there
had been uninterrupted possession for more than the statutory period of thirty years when the action was commenced.
It is said that the possession of the defendant was subordinate to the ultimate right and title of the plaintiff's lessor,
and was in effect his possession. This is not so. The defendant was a bona fide purchaser. Such a party holds adversely to all the world. He may disclaim the title under
which lie entered, and set up any other title and any other
defence alike against his vendor and against others.*
It is said also that the remainder to Thomas Croxall was
contingent and expectant until the death of his father and
mother; *that nothing passed by his deed to Wall, and that
the statute could not, under these circumstances, affect the
rights of his heir in tail. Laying out of view the act of the
legislature of 1818, and what was done under it, this is still
an erroneous view of the subject. Thomas was living at the
time of the execution of the deed of 1793, and took at once
an estate vested in right, and deferred only as to the time of
possession and enjoyment. It was in the latter respect only
contingent and expectant. If this were not so, upon the
death of the remainderman befbre the vesting of the possession his children could not inherit.t
The struggle with the courts has always been for that construction which gives to the remainder a vested rather than
a contingei't character. A remainder is never held to be
contingent when, consistently with the intention, it can be
held to be vested. If an estate be granted for life to otte
person, and ay number of remainders for life to others in
succession, and finally a remainder in fee simple or fee tail,
Watkins v. Holman, 16 Peters, 54; Blight's Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Whea.on, 548; The Society v. The Town of Pawlet, 4 Peters, 506; Jackson v. Huntington, 6 Id. 402; Willison v. Watkins, 3 Id 43; Voorhies v. White's Heirs.
2 Marshall, 26; Winlock v. Hardy, 4 Littel, 274.
t Gi odtitle v Whitby, 1 Burrow, 228.

CRO0XALL

V.

SHERERD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

each of the grantees of a remainder for life takes at once a
vested estate, although there be no probability, and scarcely
a possibility, that it will ever, as to most of them, vest ini
possession.*
Chancellor Kent says the definition of a vested remainder
is thus fully and accurately expressed in the Revised Statutes of New York. It is, "when there is a person in being
who would have an immediate right to the possession of the
lands, upon the ceasing of the intermediate precedent estate."
It is the present capacity to take effect in possession, if the
precedent estate should determine, which distinguishes a
vested from a contingent remainder. Where an estate is
granted to one for life, and to such of his children as should
be living after bis death, a present right to the future po session vests at once in such as are living, subjec' to open
and let in after-born children, and to be divested as to those
who shall die without issue. A remainder, limited upon an
estate tail, is held to be vested, though it be uncertain whether
it will ever take effect in possession.t A vested remainder
is an estate recognized in law, and it is grantable by.any of
the conveyances operating by force of the statute of uses.1
Such an estate, if the entail had not been destroyed, passed
by the deed of Thomas Croxall to Morris Croxall, by the
deed of Morris Croxall to Garrett D. Wall, and by the deed
of Wall to the defendant, Shererd. Whatever interest
Charles Croxall had in the property after the death of his
wife, passed by his deed of the 20th of September, 1825, to
Wall, and from Wall, under the covenant of warranty in his
deed, to Shererd.
The special verdict having found that the defendant obtained possession by a bona fide purchase from a party in
Williams on Real Property, 208.
t Goodtitle v. Whitby, 1 Burrow, 228; Wendell v. Crandall, 1 Comstock,
491; Doe v. Lea, 3 Durnford & East, 41; Moore v. Lyons, 25 Wendell, 119,
Doe v. Underdown, Willes, 298; Etter's Estate, 23 Pennsylvania State, 881 Vanderheyden v. Crandall, 2 Denio, 18; Boraston's Case, 8 Coke, 51; 4

Kent's Com. 202; Williams on Real Property, 207.
1 Fearne on Remainders, 216; 4 Kent's Com. 205.

Dec. 1866.]

CROXALL V. StERERD.

Opinion of the court.

possession, and supposed to have a valid title, the case is
thus, in this view of the state of the title, brought again
within the letter, and, as we think, within the meaning of
the statute. The statute provides expressly that possession
for the period of limitation shall vest in the occupant " all
absolute right and title to the land." Such a title thus became vested in the defendant, Shererd. This would have
been the effect of the bar without such a provision in the
statute.*
The statute contains no qualification or exception as to
issue in tail, and we can interpolate none; nor can we review or reverse the finding of the jury. In lnman v.
Barnes,t Mr. Justice Storysaid: "I. take it to be well settled that if the time limited has once run against any tenant in tail, it is a good bar, not only against him, but also
against all persons claiming in descent per formna, doni
through him." In Wright v. Scott,:I this sante statute came
under the consideration of the court. The case involved
entailed property. The court gave the same construction to
the statute which we have given. Mr. Justice Washington
remarked that if Auch were not.the proper construction the
issue in tail could never be barred. In cases of this class,
as in all others, when the statute has begun, it continues to
run until its effect is complete. It proceeds to throw its protection over the property, and does not stop by the way for
any intericdiate right which may have arisen during the
period of its progress. It allows no immunity beyond the
savings which it contains. Such statutes are now fivorably
regarded in all courts. They are " statutes of repose," and
are to be construed and applied in a liberal spirit.
Our construction of this statute is sustained by the analo
gies of the English and Massachusetts decisions respecting
writs of formidon in descender under the statute of the 21
James I, and other statutes containing similar provisions.§
The law presents other analogies which tend strongly in the
same direction. As between trustee and ceslui que trust-a
Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 605.
$ 4 Washing -n Circuit Court, 24.
VOL. V

19

f 2 Gallison, 315.
1 Angel on Limitations,

860.

290

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

joint lrenant and a tenant in common, and their co-tenants,
the bar becomes complete when the period has elapsed,
which the statute prescribes, after the commencement of
open and notorious adverse possession.* We think the special verdict sustains conclusively this defence.
The judgment below was properly given for the defendant
in error, and it is affirmed.
Mr. Justice MILLER. I concur in the judgment of the
court, and in its opinion as to the first ground on which the
judgment is based.
In that part of the opinion which declares the statute of
limitation to be a good defence, I cannot concur. The facts
conceded by both parties show, that until the death of Thomas
Croxall, in 1861, the defendants and those under whom they
claimed, had a lawful possession ; and were at no time liable
to an action to disturb that possession until that event; and
I do not believe that the statute of limitations of New Jersey, or of any other country, or any rule of prescription, was
ever intended to create a bar in favor of parties in possession,
who were not liable to be sued in regard to that possession.
It was unnecessary to decide this proposition, as the court
were unanimous in the opinion that defendants had a good
title, in fee simple, which needed no statute of limitation to
protect it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

1. A State statute which enacts that " no action shall be maintained on any
judgment or decree rendered by any court without this State against any
person who, at the time of the commencement of the action in which

such judgment or decree was or shall be rendered, was or shall be a resident of this State, in any case where the cause of action would have been

barred by any act of limitation of this State, if such suit had been brought
therein"-is unconstitutional and void, as destroying the right of a
party to enforce a judgment regularly obtained in another State, and
Angel on Limitations,

425, and 419 to 436.

