SEAVER v. BIGELOWS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

$3916.75. The case went to a hearing on the pleadings and
proofs, and a decree was entered dismissing the bill. It is
now here on appeal.
Although the bill was originally filed against four parties,
while the suit was progressing, and after the above judgment
creditors had become parties to the proceedings, it was dismissed by the stipulation and consent of the complainants as
to two of them-Thompson and Green-who were charged
in the bill as having become the owners of large parcels of
the estate of Fenn, the debtor, after his insolvency and before he made an assignment for the benefit of his creditors.
The dismissal of these parties narrowed the litigation and
confined the issue between the judgment creditors on the
one side, and the debtor and Robbins, his general assignee,
on the other, and who was the only witness examined in the
case. He was called on the part of the complainants. His
testimony shows, that Fenn was heavily in debt and hopelessly insolvent. That he had divested himself of all his
property in his endeavors to adj ust his del)ts, and by the assignment for the benefit of his creditors. There was no
concealment of any of his assets, or attempted appropriation
of any part of them fbr his own benefit or the benefit of his
family. All that he possessed appears to have been devoted
by the assignment to the use of his creditors, and we perceive no reason for dissenting from the conclusion at which
the court below arrived in its disposition of the case.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SEAVER V. BIGELOWS.
in a creditor's bill-several creditors joining-to set aside a conveyance of
property as fraudulently made, this court has no jurisdiction on appeal
if the judgment of the creditor appealing do not exceed $2000. Tb3
fact that the fund in litigation exceeds it is not sufficient.

SEAVER filed a creditor's bill against the defendants, in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, setting
forth a judgment against one of the defendants, for tho

Dec. 1866.]

SEAVER

v.

209

BIGELOWS.

Opinion of the court.

sum of $839.48, and, he being insolvent, seeking to get satisfaction of it from a fund exceeding $2000 in the hands of
another of the defendants who, it was charged, was in possession of the fund by fraud. Plimpton, who joined in the
b11l, sot out a judgment for the sum of $988.47. The suit
went to issne, and was heard on the pleadings and proofs,
and a decree entered dismissing the bill. The ease being
now here on appeal, a question arose whether this court had
jurisdiction, as the statute limiting appeals from the Circuit
Court is confined to eases where the sum in dispute exceeds
$2000, exclusive of' costs.*
Mr. -E.S. Smith, in support of lhe jurisdiction:
The act of Congress allows appeals in equity, when the
matter in dispute shall exceed the sum or value of two thousand dollars. The judgment is not the amount, as that is not
in dispute, it having been fixed by the court at law. Therefore, the value of the property must be the sum in controversy. A decree, in eases of this kind, need not state the
amount to be paid. The prayer in the bill, is to apply the
property, fraudulently disposed of; to pay the sums fixed by
the judgments. Freemanv. llowct is decisive. It was there
held, that a bill filed on the equity side of the court to restrain or regulate judgments, or suits at law, in the same
court, and, thereby prevent any injustice or inequitable advantage, under mesne or final process, is not an original suit,
but ancillary and dependent; supplementary merely to the
original suit, out of which it had arisen.
The bill, in this case, was not filed as an original suit, but
to aid the judgment at law.
Mr. Thomas Boyne, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment creditors who have joined in this bill have
separate and distinct interests, depending upon separate and
" 2 Stat. at Large, 244,
VOL. v.

1 2,

chap. 40.
14

f

24 Howard, 460

210

SEAVER V. BIGLLOWS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

distinct judgmients. In no event could the sum in dispute
of either party exceed the amount of their judgment, which
is less than $2000. The bill being dismissed, each fails in
obtaining payment of his demands. Ifit had been sustained,
and a decree rendered in their favor, it would only have
been for the amount of the judgment of each. We say
nothing as to the costs, as the statute excludes them on the
question of jurisdiction.
, It is true, the litigation involves a common furnd, which
exceeds the sum of $2000, but neither of the judgment
creditors has any interest in it exceeding the amonnu of
his judgment. Hence, to sustain an appeal in this class of
cases, where separate and distinct interests are in dispute,
of an amount less than the statute requires, and where the
joinder of parties is permitted by the mere indulgence of
the court, for its convenience, and to save expense, would be
giving a privilege to the parties not common to other litigants, and which is forbidden by law.,
The case is analogous to proceedings in admiralty in behalf of seamen for wages, and salvors for salvage, where the
practice of the court is well settled.
In the case of the seaman, though the contract is separate
and not joint, all may join in the libel and carry on the proceedings, in form, jointly, to the decree, which assigns to
each severally the amount due. If the sum thus assigned
is under $2000, neither party can appeal.* So in respect to
the case of salvage, where the amount charged upon the
goods of each of the several claimants is less than this sum.t
The case of Rich v. Lamber. furnishes an,'ther illustration. There, several owners of cargo, having separate and
distinct interests, filed a libel against the vessel for danago
done to the goods on the voyage. The court decreed damages in their ftvor, but with the exception of two of the
eases the amount was under $2000. The court dismissed
the appeals for want of jurisdiction.
" Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Peters, 143.
t United States v. Carr, 8 Id. 9; Spear v. Place, 11 Howard, 522.
1 12 Howard, 317.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

211

Syllabus.

The only plausible ground upon which the jurisdiction
can be sustained in the case before us is, that the several
judgment creditors are proceeding against a commonfund,
which each is interested to have applied to the payment
of his demand. But the same ground for the jurisdiction
existed in the case of the seaman, salvors, and owners of
cargo for damages. The answer is, that the interest of the
judgment creditors in the common fund could not exceed
the amount of their several and separate judgments, and if
these are under the $2000, the same reason exists for cutting
off the appeal as if the suit had been separate and not joint.
indeed, the joinder of parties complainant in the case of
creditors' bills is so much a matter of form, that new parties may come in at almost any stage of the proceedings on
a proper application; and, under special circumstances, even
after decree, if they can show an interest in the common
fund. And the party first instituting proceedings may do
so on behalf of himoelf and all other creditors who may come
in and assume their share of the costs and expenses.
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

NOTE.-Similar decree made for the same reason in the case

of Field v. Bigelow, and in one branch of Myers v. Fenn.

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.
1. On a conquest by one nation of another, and the subsequent surrender of

the soil and change of sovereignty, those of the former inhabitants who
do not remain and become citizens of the victorious sovereign, but, on
the contrary, adhere to their old allegiance and continue in the service

of the vanquished sovereign, deprive themselves of protection or security
to their property except so far as it may be secured by treaty.
2. Hence, where on such a conquest, treaty provided that the former inhabitants who wished to adhere in allegiance to their vanquished sovereign,
might sell their property, provided they sold it to a certain class of persons and within a time named, the property, if not so sold, became
abandoned to the conqueror.

