Dec. 1866.]

KELLY V. CRAWFORD.
Statement of the case.

titled to great respect, do not furnish the rule oF Incision in
this court.*
Prior decisions of the State court were in accoi lance with
the decisions of this court, and as those decisions were supposed to be correct expositions of the law of the State at the
period when these bonds were issuedi the latter adjudications cannot control the judgment in this case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

KELLY V. CRAWFORD.
1. Where agents, in the sale of an article, acknowledging a debt of unascertained amount due their principals, sign an agreement passing certain
debts described as "all accounts hereunto attached,: and marked Exhibit
A,"-no exhibit, however, being then or afterwards annexed,-and "all
other debts die" (for the particular article), the contract having the
further purpose of ascertaining, with certainty, from an examination
by an nccountant of the books of the assigning party the exact amount
due,-the contract, in connection with the report of the accountant, may,
on a suit for the amount found due, be read in evidencei, ven without
the exhibit pever annexed.
2. Where, to a suit against a partnership for debt, the defence is, that a former partner has unwarrantably signed the firm name after dissolution
of the partnership, the paper signed may be read in evidence by itself,
it being so read, however, "subject to the proof to be given hereafter."
3. Where a party who has been, and still is, carrying on an agency in the
sale of anything for another, becomes thus indebted to this other, and
agrees that an accountant shall examine the books of account and ascertain from them the exact amount due, "4the amount so found to be due
and owing to be final,"-the agreement is not "a submission to arbitration," nor is the amount found by the accountant an " award" in any
such sense as will make them subject to the strict rules governing arbitrations and awards.

ON error to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case was thus:
Crawford & Co.,in 1860, were coal dealers in Cleveland, and
at the same time Kelly & Maher were coal dealers in Chicago.
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 18.
vol

60

KIELLY V.

CRAWFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

On the 4th August Kelly made a contract with Crawford &
Co., the purport of which was, that Crawford & Co. were to
supply Kelly & Co. with coal; that the coal was to be furnished
at Cleveland; that Kelly & Co. were to advae the freight and
insurance; that upon its arrival here they were to dock and
sell it, to guarantee the payment of all sales. The contract
preseribed the manner in which the proceeds of the sales
were to be divided between the parties, and provided that
the coal was to remain the property of Crawford & Co.
On the 13th of September, 1861, there being a large sum.
of money due Crawford & Co. for coal furnished under the
contract, an agreenent was made, in substance thus:
"Know all men, &c., that whereas Kelly & Co. are indebted to
Crawford & Co. upon joint account, the exact amount to be ascertained from the books of Kelly & Co. by one G. H. Quigg, under the
supervision of the parties to this agreement (the am6unt so found to
be due and owing to be final). In consideration of such indebtedness, &e., the said Kelly & Co. hereby assign to the said Crawford & Co. all the accounts hereunto attached, and marked ' Exhibit
A,' together with two wheelbarrow scales [and other chattels
personal, specified], and all other accounts due and owing to
said Kelly & Co. upon their coal books, except the accounts
now enjoined in chancery. Further: that Crawford & Co. are
to put the said accounts into speedy collection ; and after paying the expenses of collecting, the balance shall be applied to
the extinguishinent of' the debt of' said Kelly & Co. to Crawford
& Co., as ascertained by the aforesaid G. I. Quigg. It being distinctly understood that the said "Quiggis to ascertain the amount due,
which the parties hereto now agree is to be the actual amount.
Should there be any balance left after collecting the sums herein
referred to, the said Crawford & Co. agree to pay the same over
to Kelly & Co.; and should the said sum of accounts, and the
personal property herein referred to, be insufficient to pay the
sum found (hereafter) to be due to Crawt'ord & Co., then Kelly
& Co. a(gree to pay the balance remaining unpaid to Crawford
& Co."
No " exhibit" of' any kind had been annexed to this contract at the (late of its execution, nor was ever afterward annexed.

Dec. 1866.]

KELLY V. CRAWrORD.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Quigg, in September, 1861, along with Mahet, Crawford &
Co. supervising what he did, proceeded to determine from
the books of Kelly & Co. the amount due Crawford & Co. ft
doing this he corrected errors and oversights,.and made some
new entries, and on the 16th of June, 1862, he wrote up a
balance of the accounts as they stood on the books at that
time; including in it all the accounts that had been entered
upon the books by him subsequent to the agreement. Acting thus, he reported, in June, 1862, the sum due to be
$5474.
Kelly & Co. having failed to pay the amount thus found,
Crawford & Co. brought assumpsit in the court below against
them.
The declaration consisted of one special count on the
agreement, and the award of Mr. Quigg, thereunder. It
set forth that the accounts had been put into collection, and
that there was a deficit. The common counts were added.
To this declaration Maher pleaded:
1st. General issue.
2d. That he did not execute the agreement set out in first
count'of the declaration.
3d. That the agreement so set out was executed by Kelly,
in the name of Kelly & Co., without his knowledge or consent,
and that long before the date thereof, the firm of Kelly &
Co., of which he had been a member, was dissolved.
On the trial, the contract between the parties of September 13th, 1861, was admitted by the court in evidence, "subject to the proof to be given thereafter," without the exhibit to
which it refers, against two objections of the defendants1st, that it was incomplete without the exhibit; 2d, that it
was invalid, because executed by one of the firm of Kelly &
Co., after its dissolution.
Qbigg was examined as a witness in the case, and exhibited the books, and testified that the entries made by him,
and the balance the books showed, were accurate.
Mr. D.

. Nichols, for Kelly & Co., plaintiffs in error:

1. The contract without the schedule was incomplete-a

78

KELLY V CRAWFO 1D.

[Sup. Ct

Argument fordefendant in error.

contract with its most important part omitted-and did not
tend to show the case between the parties. Their rights,
under the contract, depended upon the accounts assigned.
The accounts were to be put into speedy collection. The
first count of the plaintiffs' declaration alleges that this was
done. Ifmore was collected than Quigg should award, the
plaintifTFh were to pay the balance to the defendants below;
if less, the defendants below were to make up the deficiency.
The contract without the schedule had no certain meaning.*
The absence of the schedule made a patent ambiguity which
cannot be supplied by parol evidence.t
If this contract could have been rendered competent by
extrinsic evidence, that evidence should have been first introduced, before the contract was received in ev.idence.t
2. By the contract of September 13th, 1861, Quigg was
to determine the balance due the plaintiffs from the defendants as shown by the books at the time they were submitted to
him. Instead of so findingthe balance he changed the books;
introduced new and original matter in them, and in making
up the balance-sheet included this matter. In doing this he
exceeded the submission.
Now, an award not in pursuance of the submission, or
based upon matters not submitted, is void.ยง
ir. Merrick, contra:
The court is now asked to reverse this judgment, not because of any injustice done the defendants, or that the judgment and finding of the jury are not fully supported by the
pleadings and proofs in the case, or that the jury were in any* Dennis v. Barber, 6 Sergeant & Rawle, 425; Sloan v. Atlt, 8 Clark
(Iowa), 229; Shields v. Henry, 31 Alabama, 63; Miller v. Travers et al., 8
Bingham, 244 (21 English Common Law, 524) ; Jackson v. Parkhurst, 4
Wendell, 369.
t Gilsoil, et al. v. Gilson, 16 Vermont, 468.
T Haswell v. Bussing, 10.Johnson, 128; Penfilid v. Carl ender, 13 Id. 350;
Trvine v. Cook, 15 Id. 239.
Pope v. Brett, 3 Williams's Saunders, 292; Harvey v. Aston, Willes, 92!
George v. Lousley, 8 East, 13'; Leggo v. Young, 81 English Common Law,
625; Shearer v. Handy, 22 Pickering, 417.

Dec. 1866.]

KELLY V.

CRAWFORD.

Opinion of the court.

wise misled by the direction of the court, or would not be
justifiable in coming to the same conclusion under any aspect
of the case consistent with the facts, or that substantial justice has not been done to the defendant; nothing of tile kind
is assigned for error. On the contrary, there being no errors
assigned in this court, the plaintiffs in error substantially
admit that the defendants in error made out their case. The
allegation is that the court erred technically in permitting
the defendants in error to introduce and read in evidence
to the jury, the contract of September 13th, 1861, and the
books of Kelly & Co. There is really nothing else. There
was no substantial error in what was done, and none even in
a technical view. There was no dispute about anything.
Quigg was not an arbitrator; but was a mere accountant,
fixed on to find the sum due on the books of Kelly & Co.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the trial of this cause the agreement of September
13th, 1861, was admitted in evidence, without the exhibit to
which it refers, against two objections of the defendants:
1st, that it was incomplete without the exhibit; 2d, that it
was invalid, because executed by one of the firm of Kelly &
Co. after its dissolution.
The answer to the first objection consists in the fact that
no exhibit, though mentioned in the agreement as annexed
to it, was in truth annexed. The parties executed the agreement, and acted upon it without this document being attached. The agreement cannot, therefore, be treated as incomplete in the absence of the exhibit; it was only ineffectual to pass the amounts specified in*that paper; it was
efi ctual to pass all other matters mentioned. The contract
was not intended merely to transfer certain assets; it had
for a further object to ascertain the amount of the indebtedness of the defendants from the examination of their books
by an accountant. It was clearly admissible in connection
with the statement of the accountant to show the amount
of such indebtedness.
To tbe second objection the answer is equally brief and

190

KELLY -V. CRAWFORD.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

conclusive. The agreement was admitted, "subject to the
proof to bp given thereafter," and it was subsequently proved
that the agreement was ratified by the other partner of the
firm of Kelly & Co., and the fact of ratification is specially
found by, the jury.
The principal objections urged for a reversal of the judg.ment test upon the idea that the agreement of September
13th, 1861, was a submission to arbitration, and the report
or statement of Quigg was the award of an arbitrator; and
that both are to be judged by the strict rules applicable to
arbitrations and awards. This is, however, a mistaken view
of the agreement and report. As observed by counsel,
there was no dispute or controversy between the parties to
besubmitted to arbitration; nor was anything to be submitted to the judgment or discretion of Quigg. The books of
account of the defendants were to determine the amount
due; about these there was no controversy. The only duty
of Quigg was to examine them as an accountant and to state
what they exhibited.
The objection that the report was not made from the accounts as they stood on the books at the time they were
placed in the hands of Quigg, is not one which can affect
the result. The object of submitting the books to him for
examination was to ascertain the exact amount of the indebtedness of the defendants to the plaintiffs. For this purpose it was in his power to write up the books, to correct
errors discovered, and make entries of what had been omitted by oversight or mistake. It is to be presumed that the
parties desired to arrive at a just result, not to have a balance
struck from the books without regard to their correctness.
The agreement provides, that the amount due was to be
ascertained by Quigg, under the supervision of the parties,
and the proof shows that this was done under the immediate supervision of one of the defendants.
Besides, Quigg was examined as a witness in the case, and
exhibited the books, and testified as to the balatie they
showed and the entries made by him. These books were,
of themselves, admissible as evidence of the balance due by

Dec. 1866.]

O'NEAL V.

KIRKPATRICK.

.791

Statement of the case.

the defendants,, independent of the agreement of September
13th, 1861. Upon the evidence they furnished, taken in
connection with the testimony of Quigg, the verdict of the
jury may be sustained without reference to his report.
They showed the amount received from the sales of coal
furnished to the defendants to which the plaintiffs were en.
titled; and for such amount the recovery can be upheld
under the common counts, for money had and received.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED..

O'NEAL V. KIRKPATRICK.
On the 13th of May, 1861, the legislature of California passed an act which
provides for the reclamation and sale of the "swamp and overflowed
lands" of the State. The twenty-seventh section declares that the provisions of the act shall " apply equally to all salt-marsh or tide lands il
the State as to swamp and overflowed." On the next day-the 14th qf
May-the same legislature passed another act ratifying and confirming
the sales of all marsh and tide lands belonging to the State, which had
been made according to the provisions of any acts of the legislature lot
the sale of' swamp and overflowed lands," and declaring that ''any of
said marsh and tide lands that remained unsold might be purchased
under the provisions of the laws then in force for the sale of swamp and
overflowed lands, Provided no marsh or tide lands within five miles of
the city of San Francisco, &c., should be sold or purchased by authority
of this act." On this caseHeld, that after the passage of the second act there was no authority for
the sale or purchase of salt-marsh or tide lands within five miles of the
city of San Francisco.

THIS was an ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California, to recover a lot of land
situate on the margin of the bay of San Francisco, wilhinfive
miles of the city, below ordinary high-water mark, and which
contained about forty acres of land under water, but which
could be easily reclaimed, and, by the natural growth of the
city, would soon become a part of it. The plaintiffcfaimed
title under a certificate of purchase from the State, dated 23d

