WATSON V.

SUTHERLAND.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

to show the necessity for its speedy removal, if the purchase
had been honestly made.
On the whole, we see no reason to suppose that a case of
forfeiture would be made out by the testimony on another
trial, as much of that taken ex parle by the captors would
probably be modified favorably fbr the claimants on crossexamination.
The decree of the District Court is therefore
AFFIRMED.

WATSON V. SUTHERLAND.
The absence of a plain and adequate remedy at law affords the only test of
equity jurisdiction, and the application of this principle to a particular
case must depend altogether upon the character of the case, as disclosed
in the proceedings.
Hence where a creditor of A. levied on goods, a miscellaneous stock in
retail trade, suitable for the then current season, and intended to be paid
for out of the sales-in the possession of B., a young man recently
established in trade and doing a profitable business, alleging that they
had been conveyed to B. by A. to defeat his creditors-the court, upon,
being satisfied that they had not been so conveyed, held that the execution had been rightly enjoined; that as at law the measure of damages,
if the property were not sold, could not extend beyond the injury done
to it, or, if sold, to the value of it, when taken, with interest from the
time of the taking down to the trial-loss of trade, destruction of credit,
and failure of business prospects-commercial ruin, in short-collateral
or consequential damages, which might nevertheless ensue, would not
be compensated for at law, but were properly prevented in equity.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Maryland; the case being this:
Watson & Co., appellants in the suit, having issued writs
offerifacias on certain judgments which they had recovered
in the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland against
Wroth & Fullerton, caused them to be levied on the entire
stock in trade of a retail dry goods store in Baltimore, in
the possession of one Sutherland, the appellee. Sutherland,
claiming the exclusive ownership of the property, and inAPPEAL

Dec. 1866.]

WATSON

V.

SUTHERLAND.

Statement of the case.

sisting that Wroth & Fullerton had no interest whatever
in it, filed a bill in equity, to enjoin the further prosecution
of these writs of fierifacias,and so to prevent, as he alleged,
irreparable injury to himself. The zrounds on which the
bill of Sutherland charged that the injury'would be irreparable, and could not be compensated in damages, were these:
that he was the bonafide owner of the stock of goods, which
were valuable and purchased for the business of the current
season, and not all paid for; that his only means of payment
were through his sales; that he was a young man, recently
engaged on his own account in merchandising, and had succeeded in establishing a profitable trade, and if his store was
closed, or goods taken from him, or their sale even long
delayed, he would not only be rendered insolvent, but his
credit destroyed, his business wholly broken up, and his
prospects in life blasted.
The answer set forth that the goods levied on were really
the property of Wroth & Fullerton, who had been partners
in business in Baltimore, and who, suspending payment in
March, 1861, gr'eatly in debt to the' appellants and others,
had, on the 27th October, 1862, and under the form of a sale,
conveyed the goods to'Sutherland, the appellee; that Sutherland was a young man, who came to this country from
Ireland a few years ago; that when he came he was wholly
without property; that since he came he had been salesman
in a retail dry goods store, at a small salary, so low as to
have rendered it impossible for him to have saved from his
earnings any sum of money sufficient to have made any real
purchase of this stock of goods from Wroth & Fullerton,
which the answer set up was accordingly a fraudulent transfer made to hinder and defeat creditors.
It further stated that the legislature of Maryland had
passed acts staying executions fr6m the 10th of May, 1861,
until the 1st of November, 1862; that previous to the 1st
November, 1862, Wroth & Fullerton had determined to pay
no part of the judgments rendered against them; and that
from the 10th May, 1861, until the 1st November, 1862,
judgments, amounting to between $30,000 and $40,000, had

WATSON V.

SUTHmERLAND.

[LSup. Cr.

Argument for the defendants.

been rendered against them; that between the date of the
suspension, March, 1861, and the 27th October, 1862, they
had sold the greater portion of their goods, and collected a
great many of the debts due them, but had paid only a small
portion of those which they owed; secreting for their own
use the greater portion of the money collected, and with the
residue obtaining the goods levied upon.
It added that there was no reason to suppose that the levy
aforesaid, as made by said marshal, would work irreparable
injury to the appellee, even if the goods so levied on were
the property of the complainant, as property of the same
description, quantity, and quality, could be easily obtained
in market, which would suit the appellee's purpose as well
as those levied upon, and that a jury would have ample
power, on a trial at common law, in an action against the
respondents, now appellants, or against the marshal on his
official bond, to give a verdict commensurate with any
damages the said appellee could sustain by the levy and sale
of the goods afbresaid.
On the filing of the bill a temporary injunction was
granted, and when the cause was finally heard, after a general replication filed and proof taken, it was made perpetual.
These proofs, as both this court and the one below considered, hardly established, as respected Sutherland, the
alleged fraud on creditors.
The appeal was from the decree of perpetual injunction.
M3essrs. Mason Campbell and MIc Laughlin,for the defendants.
We admit that there are cases in which a court of equity
would interfere to prevent the sale of personal property, or
to cause its delivery; but these cases must have some peculiarity in the character of the property; a peculiarity of
value to its owner, or the peculiarity of the right in which
it has been held.
The rules governing courts of equity in England in such
cases are laid down in all text-writers. One of these clearly
states them :*
Story, 1 Equity Jurisprudence,

709.

Dec. 1866.]

WATSON V.

SUTHERLAND.

Argument for the defendants.

"But there are cases of personal goods in which by the remedy
at law damages would be utterly inadequate, and leave the
injured party in a state of irremediable loss. In all such cases
courts of equity grant full relief'by requiring a specific delivery
of the thing. This may occur when the thing is of peculiar
value and importance; and the loss of it cannot be fully compensated in damages where withheld from the owner. Thus
where the lord df a manor was entitled to an old altar piece
made of silver, and remarkable for a Greek inscription and
dedication to Hercules, as a treasure trove within his manor, and
it had been sold by a wrongdoer, it was decreed to be delivered
up to the lord of the manor as a matter of curiohs antiquity,
which could not be replaced in value, and which might, by
being defaced, become greatly depreciated. So where aki estate
was held by the tenure of a horn, and a bill was brought by the
owner to have it delivered up to him, it was held maintainable,
for it constituted an essential muniment of his title. The same
principle applies to any other chattel whose principal value con-

sists in its antiquity, or in its being the production of some distinguisheZd artist; or in its being a family relic or ornament, or
heirloom, such for instance as ancient gems, medals, and coins,
ancient statues and busts, paintings of old and distinguished
masters, or even those of a modern date having a peculiar dis-

tinction and value, such as family pictures and portraits and
ornaments, and other things of a kindred nature."
Need we say that all other classes,-such as, the ordinary
mnuslins, flannels, and other items, the common stock of a
retail drygoods shop,-are to be considered as excluded.
The bill contains no averments of the marshal's inability
to respond in damages. Besides, he has given an efficient
bond with sureties.
The good-will of a business, " or the probability that the
old customers will resort to the old place,"* has nothing in
it so peculiar as to warrant the interference of Chancery for
its protection. Damage adequate to the injury done to it is
recoverable at law.t
*Cruttwell v. Lye, 17 Vesey, 335.
t Zeigler v. Sentzner, 8 Gill and Johnson, 158; Baxter v. Conolly, I
Jacob and Walker, 556; Bozon v.Farlow, 1 Merivale, 459.

WATSON

V.

SUTHERLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The books are full of cases brought at law against sheriffs
for taking the goods of a strano'er on execution; and they
show that ample damages are recoverable by the injured
plaintiff, according to the circumstances of each case.*
But should the court differ with us on the question of jurisdiction, we still insist that the levy by the marshal was
lawful, as the goods levied on were the property of the firm.
'[The counsel then argued the question of fact.]

Messrs. Wallis and Alexander, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Thero are, in this record, two questions for consideration.
Was Sutherland entitled to invoke the interpogition of a
court of equity; and if so, did the .evidence -warrant the
court below in perpetuating the injunction ?
It is contended that the injunction should have been refused, because there was a complete remedy at law. If the
remedy at law is sufficient, equity cannot, give relief, "but
it is not enough that there i's a remedy at law; it must be
plain and adequate, or in other words, as practical and ficient to the ends of justice, and it's prompt administration,
as the remedy in equity."t how could Sutherland be compensated at law, for the injuries he would suffer, should the
grievances of which he complains be consummated?
If' the appellants made the levy, and prosecuted it in good
faith, without circumstances of aggravation, in the honest
belief, that Wroth & Fullerton' owned the stock of goods
(which they swear to in their answer), and it should turn
out, in an action at law instituted by Sutherland for the
trespass, that the-merchandise belonged exclusively to him,
it is well settled that the measure of damages, if the property were not sold, could not extend beyond the injury done
to it, or, if sold, to the value of it, when taken, with interest
From the time of the taking down to the trial.
* Lockley v. Pye, 8 Meeson and Welsby, 133; Whitehouse v, Atkinson,
14 lEng. (Jon. Law, 339; 3 Carrington & Payne, 344.
t Boyce's Exrs. v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 210.
$ Conard v. Pacific Ins. Co., 6 Peters, 272, 282.

Dec. 1866.]

WATSON

V.

SUTHERLAND.

Opinion of the court.

And this is an equal rule, whether the suit is against the
marshal or the attaching creditors, if the proceedings are
fairly conducted, and there has been no abuse of authority.
Any harsher rule would interfere to prevent the assertion
of rights honestly entertained, and which should be judi.
cially investigated and settled. "Legal compensation refers
solely to the injury done to the property taken, and not to any
collateral or consequential damages, resultingq to the owner, by
the trespass."* Loss of trade, destruction of credit, and failure of business prospects, are collateral or consequential
damages, which it is claimed would result frdm the trespass,
but for which compensation cannot be awarded in a trial at
law.
Commercial ruin to Sutherland might, therefore, be the
effect of closing his store and selling his goods, and yet the
common law fiil to reach the nischi~f. To prevent a consequence like this, a court of equity steps in, arrests the proceedings in limine; brings the parties before it; hears their
allegations and proofs, and decrees, either that the proceedings shall be unrestrained, orielse perpetually enjoined.
The absence of a plain and adequate remedy at law affords
the only test of equity jurisdiction, and the application of
this principle to a particular case, must depend altogether
upon the character of the case, as disclosed in the pleadings.
In the case we are considering, it is very clear that the
remedy in equity could alone furnish relief, and that the ends
of justice required the injunction to be issued.
The remaihing question in this case is one of fact.
The appellants, in their answers, deny that the property
was Sutherland's, but insist that it was fraudfilently purchased by him of Wroth & Fullerton, and is subject to
the payment of their debts. It seems that Wroth & Fullerton had been partners in business in Baltimore, and suspended payment in March, 1861, in debt to the appellants,
besides other creditors. Although the appellants did not
recover judgments against them until after, their sale to
Pacific Ins. Co. v. Conard, 1 Baldwin, 142.

WATSON

V.

SUTHERLAND.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Sutherland, yet other creditors did, who were delayed in
consequence of the then existing laws of Maryland, which
provided that executions should be stayed until the 1st of
November, 1862. Taking advantage of this provision of
law, the answer charges that Wroth & Fullerton, after
their failure, collected a large portion of their assets, but
apprbpriated to the payment of their debts only a small portion thus realized, and used the residue to buy the very goods
in question, which Sutherland fraudulently purchased from
them On the 27th of October, 1862, in execution of a combination and conspiracy with them to hinder, delay, and defraud their creditors. The answers also deny that the injury
to Sutherland would be irreparable, even if the stock were
his, and insist that he could be amply compensated by damages at law. After general replication was filed, proofs were
taken, but, as in all contests of this kind, there was a great
deal of irrelevant testimony, and very much that had only a
remote bearing on the question at issue between the parties.
It is unnecessary to discuss the facts of this case, for it would
serve no useful purpose to do so. We are satisfied, from a
consideration of the whole evidence, that Wroth & Fullerton acted badly, but that Sutherland was not a party to
any fraud Ndhieh they contemplated against their creditors,
and that he made the purchase in controversy, in good faith,
and for an honest purpose.
The evidence also shows conclusively, that had not the
levy been arrested by injunction, damages would have resulted to Sutherland, which could not have been repaired at
law.
The decree of tie Circuit Court is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

