Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

211

Syllabus.

The only plausible ground upon which the jurisdiction
can be sustained in the case before us is, that the several
judgment creditors are proceeding against a commonfund,
which each is interested to have applied to the payment
of his demand. But the same ground for the jurisdiction
existed in the case of the seaman, salvors, and owners of
cargo for damages. The answer is, that the interest of the
judgment creditors in the common fund could not exceed
the amount of their several and separate judgments, and if
these are under the $2000, the same reason exists for cutting
off the appeal as if the suit had been separate and not joint.
indeed, the joinder of parties complainant in the case of
creditors' bills is so much a matter of form, that new parties may come in at almost any stage of the proceedings on
a proper application; and, under special circumstances, even
after decree, if they can show an interest in the common
fund. And the party first instituting proceedings may do
so on behalf of himoelf and all other creditors who may come
in and assume their share of the costs and expenses.
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

NOTE.-Similar decree made for the same reason in the case

of Field v. Bigelow, and in one branch of Myers v. Fenn.

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.
1. On a conquest by one nation of another, and the subsequent surrender of

the soil and change of sovereignty, those of the former inhabitants who
do not remain and become citizens of the victorious sovereign, but, on
the contrary, adhere to their old allegiance and continue in the service

of the vanquished sovereign, deprive themselves of protection or security
to their property except so far as it may be secured by treaty.
2. Hence, where on such a conquest, treaty provided that the former inhabitants who wished to adhere in allegiance to their vanquished sovereign,
might sell their property, provided they sold it to a certain class of persons and within a time named, the property, if not so sold, became
abandoned to the conqueror.

212

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
3. Where a British Canadian subject has conveyed to a citizen of the United
States, lands in what are now the United States, which lands such subject holds under a grant made to a French ancestor by the King of
France in 1750 before Canada passed to Great Britain under its conquest in 1760, and while it yet was a French province, and embraced
that part of what is now the United States containing them, the title is
ino longer a French, or English, hut an American title, held under the
laws of the United States, and subject to them.
4. Semble. Where Congress authorizes a court to hear a question of title,
such as is above described, to which the United States is a party, and
in adjudicating it to be governed by the law of nations and of the country
fromn which the title was derived; by principles of natural justice and
according to the law of nations and the stipulations of treaties, an objection of mere alienage and consequent incapacity to take or hold, must be
regarded as waived.
5. A grant in the nature of a fief and seigniory was made to private individuals by the French government in 1750, of a tract of'214,000 acres at
the Saut do St. Marie, in what is now Michigan, but was then called
Canada, on condition of improvement and occupancy; one of the objects
of the grant having been to afford a refuge for travellers in a region then
a wilderness and inhabited by Indians only. In 1760, the region passed
by conquest from France to Great Britain, and in 1783 in the same way
from Great Britain to the United States. The grantees took possession
immediately after the grant, occupying and improving the tract to a
certain extent for four years, but no longer. They then came away,
leaving there a person who had gone out and been there with them, but
who did not claim under them. One of them went away from this continent in 1764, and died in France; apparently abandoning all interests
on this continent: his heir (a French subject and in the naval service of
France) received and considered in 1790, 1796, and 1804, offers of purchase more or less definite for his half and in 1800 had made an acre de
notorigM, or solemn declaration in perp euam mnemoriam rei, of his claim
to the estate; doing however nothinymore. The other grantee was killed in
1760, and the alicnee of his descendants sold, in 1796, the land to British
subjects who had been always resident abroad, and who never in any way
looked after the land. In 1824 or 1825, forty-two years after the territory
within which the lands are situate had come into her possession, the parties in interest by derivation from the original grantees, made a claim
to the United States for the land; this having been the first notice which
the United States had of any title adverse to her own. In the meantime
the United States had, in 1823, built a fort there for the protection and
encouragement of settlers; her laws had been extended over it, the Indian title extinguished, the lands surveyed and put on sale, and were now
and had been in a large part for years, covered with inhabitants.
field, that even under an act of Congress which directed an adjudication
to be made, among other ways, on principles of natural justice, the claim
could not after such a lapse of time, and so considerable a failure to ce-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

213

Statement of the case.
ply with the conditions on which the grant was made, be sustained against
the United States.
6. Where a tract on our Northern Lakes, containing over two hundred
thousand acres of land, was granted in 1750 by the crown of France as
a flef and seigniory, and on condition of improvement and occupancy, and
with a view of its being a refuge and protection for travellers against
Indians then inhabiting the region,-improvements which, besides a
stockade fort, consisted in nothing but the erection of three or four ternjVorary huts for laborers, the clearing (f a few acres of land around the
fort, planting the same with Ihdian corn, and the placing upon the tract
of seven head of cattle and two horses, are an insufficient compliance
with the conditions of improvement and occupancy ; there not having
been after 1754 (over a century before the commencement of the suit),
any possession or occupancy by the grantees, or their descendants, tenants, or assigns, or further improvement.
Under the treaty of 1783 with Great Britain, at the close of our revolutionary war, the United States succeeded to all the rights, in that part of old
Canada which now forms the State of Michigan, that existed in the King
of France prior to its conquest from the French by the British in 1760;
and among these rights, with that of dealing with the seigniorial estate
of lands granted out as seigniories by the said king, after a forfeiture had
occurred for non-fulfilment of the conditions of the fief. And under our
system, a legislative act-after forfeiture from non-fulfilment of the seig
niorial conditions,-directing the appropriation and possession of the
land,-which is equivalent to the "offic e found" of the common law,is sufficient to complete its reunion with the public domain.

APPEAL by the United States from a decree of the District
Court of the United States decreeing to the representatives
of the Chevalier de Repentigny and of Captain Louis Do
Bonne, a large tract of land at the. Saut de St. Marie, under
a grant from the French government, in the year 1751. The
proceedings and case were thus:
Oil the 19th April, 1860, the Congress of the United States,
at the instance of certain persons, representatives of the
Chevalier de Repentigny and of Captain Louis' Do Bonne,
ancient citizens of French Canada, one of whom had died
in 1760, and the other in 1786, passed a law authorizing the
District Court of the United States for Michigan to examine
a claim which these representatives set up to certain land at
the Saut de St. Marie in the State of Michigan, under an alleged grant made in the year 1750, by the French government to the said Repentigny and De Bonne.

214

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Under this act of Congress, Louise do Repentigny and
others, all females, and resident in Guadaloupe, the representatives by descent of the Chevalier do Repentigny, with
one Colonel Rotton, the representative by purchase and devise
of Captain De Bonne, filed their petition on the 9th January,
1861, in the nature of a bill in equity against the United
States in the said District Court of Michigan. The bill set
forth a grant, with certain conditions of occupancy, as a fief or
seigniory, on the 18th October, 1750, to Repentigny and De
Bonne, by the Marquis de ]a Jonqui~re, Governor of Canada,
then a French province cailld New France, and by Monsieur
Bigot, intendant of the same, of a large tract at the Saut de
St. Marie, describing its nature and extent; a subsequent ratification by Louis XV, and the descents and purchases by
which it was now vested in the petitioners. It set forth
further that the Chevalier de Repentigny had entered upon
the fief in October, 1750, and remained theie till 1754; had
caused clearing to be done there, put cattle on it by himself
or his tenants, and had occupied the place as required by the
terms of his grant, and that when withdrawing, about the
year 1755, had left agents of the grantees in possession,
who or whose representatives were still in occupancy of some
parts of the tract; that the claim had never been abaidoned;
though, owing to the domicil of the parties in foreign countries, and occupations in the armies and navies of such countries, and in remote public service, the owners had not been
aware of any mode in which their rights could be defined
and specifically assured; that they had from the first relied
implicitly upon the faith of treaties existent, As they averred,
in the case, and upon the justice of the government of the
United States to protect their rights and shield them from
wrong; and, as respected some of the petitioners, women,
descendants of Repentigny, that owing to their helplessness
and the helplessness of their ancestors in respect to pecuniary
means, they had been utterly unable to come to the United
States and assert fheir rights, but had been obliged to remain
absent and to trust to such exertions as their friends had

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

215

Statement of the case.

from time to time voluntarily made in their behalf to recover
the said lands.
The answer of the United States denied generally most
of the allegations of the bill; asserted more particularly that
the claimants were all aliens; that the conditions of the alleged grant had not been fulfilled by the grantees; and that by
the laws of ancient Canada the land had become reunited to
the king's domain; that the fief had moreover been abandoned
and deserted in fact, and stood possessed by the United States,
no judicial forfeiture thereof having been, under the eircumstances, necessary; that none of the parties in interest had
ever complied with any of the acts of Congress, prescribing
in, wiat way claimants of lands in that region should indicate their possessions; that thus, in fact, as well as of right,
the fief so abandoned and deserted was reunited to the suprenie domain, vested in the people of the United States of
America; and that the burden and cost of bringing the same
into a productive and profitable estate by the general administration, survey, and settlement thereof, by extinguishing the
Indian title thereto, by improvements in the way of public
works, and otherwise, had ever since, that is to say, fbr sixty
years anid upwards, been thrown upon and borne by the
United States. And it set up, moreover, that the land was
incapable of identification, and the grant void, owing to the
vagueness of the description.
The ease,. as made out by the evidence, was thus: "
On the 18th of October, 1750, the Marquis de ]a Jonquire,
Governor of Canada, then a French province, called New
France, and Monsieur Bigot, intendant of the same, by
instrument,-reciting that the Chevalier de Repentigny and
Captain De Bonne, oflicers of the French army, entertaining the purpose of establishing a seiqulory, had east their eyes
upon a place called the Saut of St. Marie; that settlements
in that place would be most useful, as travellers from the
neighboring ports, arid those from the western sea, would
there find a safe retreat, and by the care and precautions
which the petitioners proposed to take, would destroy in

216

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Stup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

those parts the trade of Indians with the English,-made
to the said Captain De Bonne and the said Chevalier de
Repentigny a concession at the Saut, in what is the present
State of Michigan, of a tract of land, "with six leagues
front upon the portage by six leagues in depth, bordering the
river which separates the two lakes," to be enjoyed by them,
their heirs, and assignees, in perpetuity, by title of fief and
seigniory, with the right of fishing and hnunting within the
whole extent of said concession, upon condition of doing
faith and homage at the Castle of St. Louis at Quebec, of
which they should hold said lands upon the customary rights
and services according to the coutmne de Paris,followed in
that country, &c.; to hold and possess the same by themselves, to cause the same to b held and possessed by their
tenants, and to cause all others to desert and give it up; in
default whereof it should be reunited to his majesty's domain, &c.
The tract contained about 335 square miles, or 214,000
acres.
On the 24th of June, 1751, Louis XV, then King of France,
by instrument or brevet of ratification, soon after duly registered at Quebec, confirmed the concession.
The instrument of concession orders that the grantees
shall enjoy, in perpetuity, the land; and, among other
things enjoined are, that they improve the said concession,
and use and occupy the same by their tenants ; and that in default
thereof the same shall be reunited to his majesty's domain.
His majesty ordering that the said concession shall be subject to the conditions above expressed, "without thereby
meaning to admit that they had not been stipulated for in
the original grant."
A map of the military frontier, on which the tract was
marked, was made by the government surveyor, Franquett, in 1752, and returned to the proper office in Paris.
The purposes of the Marquis La Jonqui~re, the Governor
of Canada, in making the grant, and the views of the ministry at home, were set forth in certain contemporary correspondence between the marquis and the ministry, as follows:

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

217

Statement of the case.
THE GOVERNOR OF NEW FRANCE TO THE MINISTER OF MARINE
AND THE COLONIES.
QUEBEC, CANADA, October 5th, 1751.

MY LORD: By my letter of the 24th August, of last year, I
had the honor to let you know that in order to thwart the movements that the English do not cease to make in order to seduce
the Indian nations of the North, I had sent the Sieur Chevalir do Repentigny to the Saut St. Marie, in order to make there
an establishment at his own expense; to build there a palisade
fort to stop the Indians of the northern posts who go to and
from the English; to interrupt the commerce they carry on;
stop and prevent the continuation of the "talks," and of the
presents which the English send to those nations to corrupt
them, to put them entirely in their interests, and inspire them
with feelings of hate and aversion for the French.
Moreover, I had in view in that establishment to secure a retreat to the French travellers, especially to those who trade in
the northern part, and for that purpose to clear the lands which
are proper for the production of Indian corn there, and to subserve thereby the victualling necessary to the people of said
post, and even to the needs of the voyagers.
The said Sicur de Repentigny has fulfilled, in all points, the
first object of my orders.
[A part of the letter here omitted is given further on, at pages
219-20.]
In regard to the second object, the said Sieur de Repentigny
has neglected nothing.
I beg of you, my lord, to be well persuaded that I shall spare
no pains to render this establishment equally useful to the service of the king and to the accommodation of the travellers.
I am, with a very profound respect, &c.,
LA JONQUIERE.
THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, AT PARIS, TO TIIE MARQUIS
DUQUESNE, GOVERNOR-GENERAL OF CANADA.
VERSAILLES, June 16, 1752.
To MR. LE MARQUIS DUQUESNE:

I answer the letters which Mr. Le Mlarquis de la Jonqui~re
wrote last year on the subject of the establishment of divers
posts

UNITED STATES V. IREPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

I begin by a general observation.
It is that such sort of establishments ought not to be undertaken but with a great deal of reflection and consideration upon
the motives of well-established necessity or sufficient utility.
Those who propose them are never short of specious and plausible reasons for their adoption. They always have in view the
good of commerce, or the importance of restraining some Indian
nation, but the most often it has been proved that they act
under private interest. These posts however cost a great deal to
the king as well for their establishment as for their keeping,
and serve sometimes only to occasion movements and disorders.
Thus the king desires not only that you should not bind yourself
to any new establishment of that sort except after having well
recognized its advantages, but also that you should examine if
among those which have been made for some years past there
are not some that it will be good to suppi-ess. And his majesty
recommends you the greatest attention on that subject.
By one of my despatches, written last year to Mr. de ]a Jonquiro, I intimated to him that I had approved of the construction of a fort at the Saut St. Marie, and the project of cultivating the land there, and raising cattle there. We cannot but
approve the dispositions which have been made for the execution of that establishment, but it must be considered that the cultivation of the lands and the multiplication of cattle must be the principal object of it, and that trade must be only the accessory of it.
As it can hardly be expected that any other grain than corn
will grow there it is necessary, at least for awhile, to stick to it,
and not to persevere stubbornly in trying to raise wheat.
The care of' cattle at that post ought to precede that of the
cultivation of the lands, because in proportion as Detroit and
the other posts of the south shall be established, they will furnish
abundance of grain to those of the north, which will be able to
furnish cattle to them.
T.
I am perfectly, &e.,
The Sieur de Repentigny went to the place soon after the
grant, and fixed himself at a spot where Fort Brady has
since stood. He remained here during the years 1751, 1752,
1753, and 1754. What he did there appears best from the
contenmporary letter of the Marquis de ]a Jonquiere to the

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. RIEPENTIONY.

219

Statement of the case.

Minister of Marine and the Colonies, already quoted, describing the matter, and from which a part omitted on page
217, is now, as more in order of subject, here given.
As soon as he arrived at Missilimakinae, the chief of the Indians of the Saut St. Marie gave to him four strings of wampum,
and begged of him to send them to me, to express to me how
sensible they were for the attention I had for them by sending
to them the Sieur de Repentigny, whom they had already
adopted as their nephew (which is a mark of distinction for an
officer amongst the Indians), to signify to them my will in all
cases to direet their steps and their actions.
I have given order to said Sieur de Rcpentigny to answer at
"the talk" of that chief by the same number of strings of wampum, and to assure him and his nation of the satisfaction I have
at their good dispositions.

The Indians received him at the Saut St. Marie with much joy.
Ile kindled my fire in that village by a neckless, which these
Indians received with feelings of thankfulness, lie labored first
to assure himself of the most suspected of the Indians. The
Indian named Cacosagane told him, in confidence, that there
was a neckless in the village from the English: the said Sicur
do Repentigny succeeded in withdrawing that neckless, which
had been in the village for five years, and which had been asked
for in vain until now. This neckless was carried into all the
Saulteux villages, and others at the south, and at the north of
Lake Superior, in order to make all these nations enter into the
conspiracy concerted between the English and the Five Nations,
after which it was put and remains in deposit at the Saut St.
Marie. Fortunately for us, this conspiracy was revealed and
bad not any consequences. The Sicur de iRepentigny has sent
me that neckless, with the "talk" of Apacquois Massisaguc,
from village the head of Lac Ontario, to support that nekless,
which he gave to the Saulteux of the foot of the rapids of Quinilitanon.
lie sent me also "the talk" given by the English in the
autumn of 1746 to form this conspiracy. I have the honor to
send you inclosed, my lord, a copy of those two " talks," by
which you will see to what excesses the English had pushed
their malignity for the destruction of the French, and to make
themselves masters of our forts. The said Sicur do Repentigny

220

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

forbid the Indians of his post to go and winter at Saginaw,
which is not little to say, for these nations go thence from there
very easily, and in a short time to the English, who load them
with presents. These Indians kept the promess which I required from them; they all stayed at Lake Superior, whatever
were the inducements the English made to attract them to themselves.
He arrived too late last year at the Saut St. Marie to fortify
himself well; however, he secured himself against insults in a
sort of fort large enough to receive the traders of Missilimakinac.
The weather was dreadful in September, October, and November. Snow fell one foot deep on the 10th October, which
caused him a great delay. He employed his hired men during
the whole winter in cutting 1100 pickets, of 15 feet, for his fort,
with the doublings, and the timber necessary for the construction of three houses, one of them 30 feet long by 20 feet wide,
and the two others 25 feet long, and the same width of the first.
His fort is entirely finished, with the exception of a redoute
of oak, which he is to have made 12 feet square, and which shall
reach the same distance above the gate of the fbrt. As soon as
this work shall be completed, he will send me the plan of' his
establishment. His fort is 110 feet square.
As for the cultivation of the lands:
The Sicur de Repentigny had a bull, two bullocks, three cows,
two heifers, one horse, and a mare, from Missilimakinac. He
could not, on his arrival, make earing of lands, for the works
of his fort had occupied entirely his hired men. Last spring he
cleared off all the small trees and bushes within the range of
the fort. lie has engaged a Frenchman, who married at the
Saut St. Mare an Indian woman, to take a farm; they have
cleared it up and sowed it, and without a frost they will gather
30 to 35 sacks of corn.
The said Sieur de Repentigny so much feels it his duty to de.
vote himself to the cultivation of these lands, that he has already
entered into a bargain for two slaves, whom he will employ to
take care of the corn that he will gather upon these lands.
On the 24th April, 1754, Governor Duquesne addressed a
letter to the Chevalier "commanding at the Saut St. Marie,'
in which he says:

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

221

Statement of the case.

"Besides the private advantage you will derive from the care
you give to the culture of your lands, the court will be very
thankful to you, and I exhort you to give yourself entirely to it
by the interest I take in you ..... .Continue to keep me informed of vhat is passing at your post and the progress of the
cultivation of the land, of which I shall make proper use."
So the same Governor writes to Machault, the Colonial
Minister, dating from Quebec, 13th October, 1754, saying:
"The Chevalier do Repentigny, who commands at the Saut
St. Marie, is busily engaged in the settlement of his post; which
is essential for stopping all the Indians who come down from
Lake Superior to go to Choateguen (Oswego), but I do not hear
it said that this post yields a great revenue."
Repentigny remained at this place till 1755.
In that year, or somewhat before, war broke out between
Great Britain and France; the possessions of France in
America being one of the matters which Great Britain
sought to gain. The British arms were victorious; and
peace being concluded in 1760, Canada, which was consid('red as embracing the land in question, was surrendered to
Great Britain.
By the capitulation made at Montreal, September 8th,
1760, it was declared that " the military and civil officers,
and all other persons whatsoever, shall preserve the entire
peaceable right and possession of their ' biens' (property),
movable and immovable; they shall not be touched, noi
the least damage done to them, on any pretence whatsoever,
and shall have liberty to keep, let, or sell them, as well to
the French as to the English."*
By the preliminary articles of peace between the Kings
of Great Britain and France, of November 3d, 1762,t it was
agreed,Mr. Bancroft (History of the United States, vol. iv, p. 361), remarks
that this capitulation included all Canada, which was said to extend to the
crest of land dividing the branches of Erie and Michigan from those of thu
Miami, the Wabash, and the Illinois Rivers.
t Entick's History, &c., 439, 440.

UNITED STATES

v.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

"That the French inhabitants, or others, who would have
been subjects of the Mlost Christian King in Canada, may retir
in all, safety and freedom wherever they please, and may sell their
estates,provided it be to his Britannic Majesty's subjects, and transport their effects, as well as their persons, without 1 eing restrained in their emigration under any pretence whatsoever,
except debts and criminal prosecutions; the term limited for
this emigration being fixed to the space of eighteen months, to
be computed from the day of the ratification of the definitive
treaty."
The same clause was copied into the definitive treaty of
Paris, of 10th of February, 1763, between the same powers.
By these two treaties severally, Canada was ceded and
guaranteed to the crown of Great Britain, and thus that
power maintained its conquest.
This war and the peace had different results in the personal and family history of De Bonne and De Repentigny.
De Bonne was killed in 1760, at the battle of Sillery, during the attempt of the French to recapture Quebec, after its
taking by Wolfe in the celebrated battle on the Plains of
Abraham. He left an infant son, Pierre, who was born in
1758, and was therefore two years old at the time of his
father's death. Pierre remained in the province after its
cession-to the English, and, thus choosing a British domicil,
became a British subject; rising in fact to judicial and other
civil honors under the British crown. Having reached
manhood, he presented himself, in 1781, "at the Castle of
St. Louis, at Quebec, to render faith and homage to his
most gracious majesty King George III, as owner of the land
of the Saut de Sainte Marie, conceded, in 1750, to his father
and to Monsieur de Repentigny, jointly."
In 1796, he sold for £1570 sterling, his interest in the
seigniory to James Caldwell, of Albany, who, in 1798, made
a deed of quit-claim of the same interest to Arthur Noble, a
citizen of Ireland, then residing temporarily in New York.
Noble returning to Ireland, by his will, made in 1814, de.
vised the interest to his nephew, John Slacke, of Dublin
John Slacke, by his will, dated in 1819, devised it to his Wife.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

223

Statement of the case.

Mrs. Slacke, in 1839, conveyed the same to her son, John
ie, in 1841, devised to Henry Battersby, of
Gray Slacke.
Dublin, who, in May, 1861, conveyed to Colonel Rotton, an
oflicer in the British service, and the party in this case to
whom by the decree below one-half the land had been adjudged.
So far as respects the moiety of De Bonne. Now as to
Repentigny.
About the year 1755, and with the necessities of the
crown, Repentigny, whom we left on his seigniory at the
Saut de St. M'arie, returned to Quebec and entered into the
military service of the King of France, in which he remained
until the surrender of the French threes, having like De
Bonne been engaged in the battle of Sillery, in 1760, for the
recapture of Quebec. On coming away frlom the Saut in
1755, he left there one Jean Baptiste Cadotte, a Frenchman,
who had gone out there with him apparently as an attendant, and who had married an Indian woman.
In 1756, at Montreal, he entered into a partnership with
De Langy and another person for carrying on the fur trade
at the Saut and other posts in tbat region. The Chevalier
"puts in all his merchandise at the said posts." The partnership at all the posts was to last until the spring of 1759,
and as to that at the Saut might, at the option of the parties,
be continued until the autumn of 1762. The two partners
of Repentigny were not to be at liberty to quit their posts.
In 1759, at Montreal, he gave to his wife a general power
of attorney to carry on, govern, and transact all his affairs;
and under -it, in 1761, Madame de Repentigny authorized
one Quenel to go to the Saut and the other posts held by
the partnership, and receive ' the third part of the packages
of furs which are at the Saut St. Marie arising from the
partnership between, &c. ; and those furs which the Sieur
()adotte may have in his hands, as well as other efibets of'
watever nature they may be, and give receipts, also to take
away all that may be due to said Sieur de Repentigny."
In 1762, the British garrison being now in possession of'
the fort-the country having changed sovereigns-all the

224

UNITED STAUES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

houses at the fort except Cadotte's were burned by the In
dians. The furs escaped.
The Chevalier remained in Canada till 1764; that is to say,
until Canada had completely ceased to be a French province.
The British Governor, Murray, now made to him the most
flattering offers of promotion to induce him to stay. "The
knowledge which I have of your military talents," lie writes
from Quebec, March 6th, 1764, " and the esteem I have fbr
yourself, induces me, by every sort of reason, to try to attach
you to this country, the country of your birth. Although it
has passed under another dominion, it ought to be always
dear to you. You are attached to it by too many bonds
to be able easily to detach yourself from it." Repentiguy
preferred, however, to follow the fortunes and standard of
his king, and in. 1764, as above said, returned to France,
leaving Madame de Repentigny, his wife, temporarily behind him, with her power of attorney. Under this power
she sold, in April, 1776, to Colonel Christie, a British officer, an estate called La Chenay, which the Chevalier de Repentigny owned, above Montreal, reciting that she -was "intending to leave and quit Canada." The deed contained
covenants for forther assurance, which, in October,, 1766,
was given by Repentigny himself, now styled " of Paris, in
the Kingdom of France." In 1769 he was appointed comimandant of troops at the Isle do Re, on the coast of France,
where lie remained till 1778, in which year lie was sent
to Guadaloupe, in command of the R~egiment d'Am~rique.
He remained at Guadaloupe with his regiment till 1782; a
part of it having participated in the operations of the American army in Georgia during the war of Independence. Receiving the rank of brigadier, be returned, in 1782, to
Frande, and having been now forty years in service, and not
being willing to retire on half pay, was appointed by the
crown, in 1783, Military Governor of Senegal, on the coast
of Africa. His health failing him after two winters in that
climate, he asked, in the autumn of' 1785, for a furlough,
and returning to Paris, died there October 9th, 1786.
le left one son, Gaspard, born at Quebec in 1753, who, in

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. IEPENTIGNY.

225

Statement of the case.

1777, entered the naval service of France, was made lieutenant in 1780, and in that year married in Guadaloupe. lie
continued in the naval service of France at Guadaloupe, and
after having made eleven campaigns at sea, and l)een engaged in two sea-fights and wounded, died at that place in
1808.
Gaspard had also a son, Camille, born in 1789. lIe married in Guadaloupe in 1814, died there in 1820, leaving children. These, with grandchildren, male and female, the issue
of a deceased child, were, parties to the present proceeding,
and the persons, along with the representatives of Do Bonne,
in whose titvor the decree appealed from had been made.
As respected the amount of claim made to this estatp after
the Chevalier left Canada in 1764, to return to France, and
as to how fhr lie or his heirs considered it his and their property still, or retained possession by their agent or tenants,
the case presented some contradictions of evide'nee.
On the one hand, ancient witnesses, still resident at the
Saut de St. Marie, were produced.
One of them, named Biron, testified that a nephew of Jean
Baptiste Cadotte (the Frenchmin already mentioned, p. 223,
as having gone with Repentigny to the Saut in 1751, and been
left there when the Choealier returned to the army at Quebec)
had told him, the witness, that his uncle, old Cadotte, had
informed him that there was an officer at the Saut in the
times of the French, nanied Repentigny; that the Saut was
a seigniory, including the old fort and a great distance
below and above the same; that it belonged to 1)c Bonne;
that he (old Cadotte) was not sent here to take charge of the
fort, but .qol possession after he came, and commanded the
fort; that Do Bonne transferred it to some one; he did not
know to whom.
A second witness, Gortion, a granddaughter of the same
Jean Baptiste Cadotte, testified that she had heard her father
or mother say that old J. B. Cadotte, her grandfather, came
to the country as a "voya geur;" that two French officers, one
by the name of Repentigny and the other of Do Bonne, came
there about the same time; that she had heard her parents
VO.L. V.

15

226

UNITED STATES V. REPNTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

or some others say that the said officers built a fort or post,
and that they went away, leaving her crandfather in possession; that her grandfather retained possession till he gave it
to her father; that her father went away about the year 1810,
leaving her mother in possession.
A third witness, husband of the last one, testified that he
had heard his father-in-law, J. 3. Cadotte the younger, say
that old Cadotte came to the Saut about the same time that
a French officer by the name of Do Repentigny came there;
that they were in some way connected about the fort, which
the officer had built, and that after the officer went away old
Cadotte took possession and ever afterwards held it until
it was taken possession of by his son, J. B. Cadotte the
younger, the father-in-law of witness, and after his death by
Madame Gornon's mother, the widow of J. B. Cadotto the
younger.
Coming, in the next generation, to the son of the Chevalier, it appeared that in the year 1790 an English gentleman had proposed to Gaspard de Repentigny to buy the
property, this being, apparently, the first information Gaspard had of it, or, at least, of its value. Gaspard declined
to sell. So again, in August, 1796, be was applied to,
lhrough an agent of the Mr. Caldwell who had bought Do
Bonne's halif, to sell this other half also, the price offered
being $8100. Gaspard replies:
Escaped from the wreck of Guadaloupe with means which
;upply the wants of my family, I think you will approve the
determination I take of not hastening to sell a tract of land
which cannot but acquire value in the future. My title-papers,
well proved by his care and the measures that Madame de la
Vigne assured me her husband had taken, . . . all put me in
the greatest security.. The proposition that Mr. Caldwell makes
(loes not seem to me tempting. From what Madame do la Vigne
told me, he paid more than $8100 for the portion which he has,
and I don't becive that the remaining half is now worth less
than that which be bought. Although at a distance from New
England, the relations which we have with that country enables
as to learn that every day gives value to these lands. I beg you

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES

v.

REPENTIGNY.

227

Statement of the case.

to vontinue your cares upon'a matter which will terminate sooner
or later, and to give me any information you may acquire either
as to the value of the lands or the persons who desire to purchase."
So, four years later, that is to say, in the year 1800, this
same Gaspard, then residing in the Jsland of Martinique,
made, before two notaries there, what in France and its
colonies is known as an acte de notori~tj, a solemn and recorded declaration of right, intended to keep alive a claim
not capable of enjoyment at the moment. This acte de nolori lt declared the fact, date, nature, and confirmation of
the grant by Louis XV; that by various treaties the property was now included in the United States; that the Chevalier de Repentigny had been attached to the marine service
of Rochefort, in France, and of Guadaloupe and Martinique,
and governor in Africa, &c., and had died in France; that
he, Gaspard, was his only heir; "that the remoteness of the
place and other circumstances have, until this day, prevented
him from having his rights recognized, but that he desires to
exercise them, and that for this hreneed only establish his heirship."
In 1804 the matter of a sale to Caldwell was again brought
up, but was not carried through.
In 1825, the original deed of ratification signed by the
King of France was presented to Mr. Graham, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, by an agent of the parties
in interest, to prevent, as he says, "the issuing of patents"
to the claimants at the Saut St. Marie under the act of
February 21st, 1823. On the 7th of December, 1826, Mrs.
Slacke's caveat was filed in that office, showing the grounds
of the claim. On the 15th of the same month, Mr. Cambreling, member from :New York, presented to Congress
the petition of Mrs. Slacke, praying a recognition of the
claim; and this petition continued to be presented from
time to time to Congress down to 1841, when the De Re.
pentigny heirs also presented their petition for the same
purpose &gents were employed by both the De Bonne and

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

Do Repentigny representatives, at great expense, to obtain a
recognition of the claim by Congress, down to the 19th of
April, 1860. On that day Congress, referring to their claim
under an "alleged grant in 1750," passed a private act, authorizing them to present their case by petition to the District Court for the District of Michigan, and authorizingc
that court to examine and adjudicate the same.
On the other hand, documents and letters from the Chevalier de Repentigny, produced from the French archives,
rather tended to show that he considered himself, when
leaving the province of Canada after the conquest, to havo
abandoned all claim to this grant. As exhibiting not only
this fhct, bnt the character of the writer in point of standing,
intelligence, and capacity to judge of his concerns (a matter
spoken of by the court), full extracts are given. They were
thus:
About the year 1773, being then at the Isle do Re, and
desiring promotion in rank, he forwarded to the minister of
the colonies by that minister's desire, a memoir or statement
of facts on which he based his solicitation. It ran thus:
'I entered the service at 13 years of age; I made my debut
by a campaign at a thousand leagues from my garrison; I have
been for 33 years in the service; sixteen campaigns or expeditions of' war; twelve battles, affairs, or hot actions, in four of
which I commanded in chief; with success. Two sieges; six
years employed with the approbation of the generals in corn
mand, and negotiations among different nations of Canada.
Such, my lord, are my services. In 1632, my great-great-grandfather went to Canada, with the charge of accompanying families of his province, in order to establish that colony, in which
he himself settled. Since that epoch we have furnished to the
corps of troops which"served there fifty officers of the same
name, of which more than one-half has perished in the war; my
father augmented the number of them in 1733. My grandfather
was the eldest of 23 brothers, all in the service. My son alone
remains of that numerous family.

I The cession of Canada, my native country, has overturned a for.
tune more than moderate, which I could preserve only by an oath of
fidelity to the new master, which was too hardfor my heart.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES, V.

1{EPENTIGNY.

229

Statement of the case.

The offers of the English ministry made to my eldest, brother
to retain us in their service are an unequivocal proof of the consideration we enjoyed in Canada, a consideration augmented,
and I dare say merited, in the last campaigns.
"In fine, two hundred thousand francs in drafts upon the
treasury, a hundred thousand francs in bills of exchange, of
which I was bearer, drawn upon the king in 1761, reduced to
one hundred thousand francs in 1764, to fifty thousand francs
in 1770, by the reduction at 2, per cent., have just brought me

thirty-two thousand five hundred francs last month, by the negotiation that I have made of it, fearing to lose all.

Such are

my sacrifices and my misfortunes in abandoning my country. You
made me firget them, my lord; your ministry has given me
existence; you have granted me several military favors; my
ambition is only to deserve, and be judged worthy of their continuation.
"Colonel

"REPENTIGNY,
of the Reg't do l'Amerique."

So in letters on the same subject of his promotion, written,

one in January, 1770, and one in April, 1772:

1My claim is based, my lord, upon thirty-one years of services, ending in the month of May next, commenced at about
fburteen years of age, upon sixteen campaigns, twelve battles
or actions, four in which I commanded in chief with success
enough to deserve the confidence and approbation of the generals who employed me.
"I made two sieges, one fight at sea commanding a detachment of 200 men with six officers for Newfoundland in 1762,
when the Duke of' Choiscul honored me with that command.
"I was taken by a man-of-war (vaisseau) of 74 guns, the
Dragon.
"After 30 years of service performed with honor in the colonies, and the sacrifice of a future more than reasonable in leaving
Canada, my native country, I should be able at 45 years of age to
claim a regiment in the colonies without too much ambition."
A letter written from Paris, September 28, 1782, not long
before his appointment to the Governorship of Senegal, on
the coast of Africa, and in reply, apparently, to one from the

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

crown offering him retirement on half pay, contained similar
expressions.
"The permission which the king gives me to retire implies
that I have asked it; but I am very far, my lord, from wishing
to profit by it. The word retirement always made me shudder.
Two years ago I entcred upon my sixth engagement, and I hope
you will appeal to the goodness of the king to permit me to
continue my services, which may be for a long time useful to

his majesty. If I had not calculated upon dying in the service, I
should not have sacrificed more than four-fifths of my fortune, my
well-being, that of my family, in abandoningCanada, my country.
In fine, my lord, you are just; you would avoid having to
censure yourself with having maltreated an old officer, without
reproach, who has presented with honor and distinction a career
of more than forty years, and with causing him to lose all consideration. Truth is one; it cannot escape your observation."
By the definitive treaty of peace of 1783, between Great
Britain and the United States after the war of Independence,
Great Britain relinquished all claim to the proprietary and territorial rights of the several United States, repeating the
boundaries agreed upon in a provisional treaty of 1782, by
which the seigniory was fbund to be included within the limits
of the United States, and fell within those of Virginia.
This tract remained within the acknowledged limits of
Virginia, until the final cession of the territory northwest of
the Ohio, on the 1st of March, 1784, to the United States.
The region about the Saut de St. Marie remained occupied
by Indians chiefly, until 1820, when by treaty between them
and the United States, their title was extinguished. After
this date the United States caused the whole district to be
surveyed, and at the time that the bill below was filed, had
sold to private persons who were in possession under patents,
108,000 acres more or less, of the 214,400 originally granted
to Repentigny and Do Bonne.
In 1805, the legislature of Michigan passed an act allowing foreigners to take and hold lands.
Numerous jurists of high staDding in Canada were ex-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

231

Statement of the case.

amined on both sides, as experts, to prove the nature of a
fief and seigniory under the laws, ancient and modern, of
Canada, the couhone de Paris,&e., and as to whether, under
certain royal arrts of France, one of March 15th, 1732,
another of 1711, called the arret of Marly, the land originally
granted had or had not become united to the king's domain;
and how far a judicial proceeding in the nature of an "' office
found" was necessary to make the reunion effective, supposing that the facts justified one.
The arr~t of 1732 declared that "all owners of unimproved
seigniories shall irprove them and place their settlers upon
them, otherwise the seigniories shall be united, in virtue of
this statute, without recourse to anly other slatue'," and there
seemed to be no doubt that if the proprietors made no improvements, and put no tenants in occupancy (qui n'ont point
de dornaine defriche el qci Wy o t point d'iabdants), they could
be reunited ; though perhaps the testimony left a case like
the present not so entirely clear as the other. As to the
necessity of some proceeding, Mr. Justice Badgley, of the Superior Court of Canada, and for mnore than thirty years connected with the prfession of the law, testified that under
the arrt of 1711, the proceedings were strictly judicial.
The arr& of 1732 contained a provision relating apparently
to the sale of wooded land, and by which, as the counsel of
the United States interpreted it, it was declared that on any
attempt to sell such land they should be"

In like manner reunited-

de pleno jure

. . .

"Pareillement reunie do plin

in virtue of droit . . . en vertu du present

the present decree, and without
there being need of another."

arrgt, et sans qt'il en soit besoin d'autre."

The act of Congress of 1860, authorizing the District Court
for Michigan to take cognizance of the case, enacted that in
adjudicating the question of the" validity of tMe title" as against
the United States, "the court was to be governed " by the
laws of nations and of the country from which the title was
derived, and also by the principles, so far as they are applicable, which are recognized in the act of Congress approved

232

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

uhe 26tih of May, 1824, " enabling the claimants to lands
ithin the limits of the State of Missouri and Territory of
Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of the
same;" an act which directed that the claims should be heard
and determined in conformity with the principles of justice,
and according to the laws and ordinances of the government
under which the titles originated; also, according to the law
of nations and the stipulations of treaties.
The act limited the time of bringing the suit to two years,
and provided that "in case of a final decree in favor of the
validity of the grant, it shall not be construed to affect or in
any way impair any adverse sales, claims, or other rights
which have been recognized by the United States within the
limits of the said claim, or which, under any law of the United
States, may have heretofore been brought to the notice of the
land coninissioners or of the land officers in Michigan, or
any of the land granted to the State of Michigan, or occupied by it, for the Saut St: Marie canal, its tow-path and
appurtenances, but for the area of any such adverse claims
the legal representatives of the said De Bonne and Repentigny shall receive from the Commissioner of the General
Land Office warrants authorizing them or their assigns to
enter any other lands belonging to the United States, and
subject to entry at 'private sale at one dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre."
The court below, as already said, decreed for the petitioners, and the case was now here for review, on appeal by the
United States.
Mr. J. il. Howard, for the appellees, representatives of De
Bonne and Bepentiqny:
I. As TO THE REPENTIGNY MOIETY.
It will be argued on the other side that Repentigny, by
abandoning Canada and adhering to his old allegiance, lost,
ipso facto, all right in this grant.
But, without relying upon treaties, we assert that the articles of capitulation of Montreal secured to him "the entire

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.
Argument for the claimants.

peaceable property and possession of his goods, movable
and immovable, which were not to be touched-i. e., taken
possession of, nor any damage done to them under any pretence whatever."
The subsequent treaties of 1762 and 1763 are both based
upon this capitulation; and Great Britain could not, in
honor, deprive them of their property. This guarantee of the
British crown was in favor of its conquered subjects. It fbllowed the title when Great Britain and the United.States
settled their boundaries in 1782 and 1783. The right to
emigrate within eighteen months was a personal privilege,
to prevent the inhabitants becoming British subjects, as
they would have done by remaining longer.
Besides, by the laws of war, the conqueror is bound to
protect the property of his conquered subjects.*
The common law of England as to alienage did not prevail in Canada, but the French laws of the colony were preserved by the Quebec act of 1774, annexing the region in
question to the province of Quebec, to be held at the king's
pleasure; by the third section of which all rights of property in land were declared " to remain and be in force and
to have effect as if this act had never been made."t
Those French laws allowed aliens to purchase and hold
lands during their lifetime; and alienage can only be established upon a judicial proceeding and sentence. De Repentigny was also signior of La Chenay. The crown never
disturbed him, and in 1766 he sold the estate to Major
Christie, of the British army.
II. As To BoT-1 CLAIMS.
1. Alienage.-The answer sets up that Noble, the purchaser
from Caldwell of De Bonne's half, and all subsequent owners of that half, are aliens. The same objection would apply
to the descendants of Repentigny.
If the fact were as alleged, they all had capacity to take.
Independently of the Michigan act of 1805, an alien can
Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheaton, 543.
British Statutes at Large, vol. xxx, p. 649.

234

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the claimants.

take by purchase or devise and hold till office found; and
till then he can sell and convey or devise.*
2. Non-fu ilbnen of conditions; Lapse of time; Abandonment,
Extinygishaent of Indian title; Reunion to the crown ; Mant oJ
certainty in, description, ce.
The paper title being complete, the petitioners are bound
to do no more, as against the United States and under the
act of Congress, than to prove that the title, which emanated
from New France, was valid.
The terms of the act providing for adjudicating the question of ''the validity of the title" indicate that the validity
of the title is to be tested as it stood at the time of its derivation, by the laws then in force.
But the court is to be governed also by the principles, so
far as they are applicable, recognized in the act of 1824.
Those "principles" can mean only the provisions of the act
and the legal consequences flowing from them. That act did
not apply at all to cases where the title was complete and
perfect under the foreign government, but only to inchoate
or unperfeted titles.t But it applied to cases of concessions,
and plainly embraced the concession in this case, but only
the concession. The act of 1860 does not refer to the raltfication, which was dated in 1751, but only to the "alleged
grant in 1750," i. e., the concession.
In passing upon the present validity of the title, the court
is not allowed to consider whether, since its emanation, anything had occurred to defeat it, such as lapse of time or other
matter of defeasanee. Congress intended the title should be
judged of as of the date of its emanation. Why else would
they have subjected it to the test only of the laws of nations
and of the country from which it was derived ?
The construction which Congress and their commissioners
Mooers v. White, 6 Johnson's Chancery, 365; Fox v. Southack, 12
MNssachusetts, 149.
Clarke v. Courtney, 5 Peters, 354, 373; United States v. Reynes, 9 Howard, 144-147; Glenn v. United States, 13 Id. 259; United States v. Roselius,
15 Id. 31-35.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

235

Argument for the claimants.

have placed upon similar language in other acts of a nature
similar to this one of 1860, affbrds argument in support of
our view.
Thus the act of March 26, 1804, for the adjustment of private claims at )etroit, &c.,* gave the commissioners power
to decide "according to justice and equity" upon claims dopending solely upon ''legal grants." They found only six
such; and they confirm these six grants for the reason, as
they remark in their report,t that they " consider the government right as completely transferred by these grants,
and affirm the claims grounded upon them, with reservation of individual rights in contested cases."
The act of 1804 involved no inquiry respecting possession
or occupation, and it nowhere appears that the board entertained any such inquiry, but simply the question whether the
title was ''legal." The ground of confirmation was, that
it transferred all the government right. Accordingly, no
inquiry was made into the fulfilment of the conditions embodied in the grant, nor into the effect of lapse of time, of
non-occupation, of alienage, or any such objection dehors
the title-papers by which the title passed to the claimant.
And this construction is binding on the government.1
Could the present claim have been acted upon by them, it
is impossible to perceive a reason why it would not have
been confirmed, as the six others bad been.
It should be noticed that the original brevets of ratification, under which the land was claimed in those cases, imposed certain conditions upon the grantees, feudal in their
character, " upon pain of the nullity of these presents." In
the ratification in the present case it is "in dleihult thereof
the same shall be reunited to his majesty's domains." There
can be no difference in meaning and effect.
On the report of the commissioners, Congress, by their act
1 Stat. at Large, 277,
-

3, 4.

16 American State Papers, 308, Malcher's Claim; Beaubien's do. 305;

N. Gouin's, 341; F. Peltier, 342; Morass, 343; G. Meldrum, 344.

I United States v. Arredondo, 6 PeLers, 713.

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

of March 3, 1807,* confirmed these six decisions, and thus
made known their views of what was a "legal grant" and
what was a decision "according to justice and equity."
So, under the Missouri act of 1824, the petitioner's claim
was founded upon some French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or order of survey, legally made, and which
might have been perfected into a complete title under the
former laws; and the act provides that the validity of such
title or claim may be inquired into by the court; which,
however, had no jurisdiction in cases of complete title.
Yet, in Chouteau's Hleirs v. United Slales,t this court held
that the power of the District Court was confined to the
"validity of the grant," and would not allow the United
States to go back of the warrant of survey to prove that
Chouteau bad not complied with the government regulations.
If we are right in supposing that it is the validity of the
grant as made which is to be judged, then all that can be
said about abandonnient, escheat, &c., is of no pertinence.
But the United States took as assignee, chargeable with
notice of the grant, and liable in justice to recognize whatever Great Britain or Virginia was. They found white persons, descendants of Cadotte and others, in possession of the
seigniory. They had no ground to presume that these persons
were there without right. Finding them there, they were
bound to presume they held, or claimed to hold, under a
legal grant from some sovereignty, either British or French,
and that the persons in possession held under that grant
either as tenants or assignees of' the original grantees, to
whose grant the possession was referable. Such is the presumption of law.1
If this be so, with what justice can the United States set
up to be the owners by lapse of time?
Again: the act of 1860 saves from the effect of a decree
in favor of the validity of the grant three classes of lands,
including lands which have been sold, as those which can.
not be recovered by the petitioners.
1 Stat. at La.ge, 847.

t 9 :Peters, 154.

$ 4 Kent's Comi. 179,

Dec. 1866.]t

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIONY.

237

Argument for the claimants.

Of course the court has not the means of designating
these lands. That duty belongs to the General Land Office,
which, having designated them, is required to perform its
other duty of issuing warrants for the same area of land.
The whole extent of the court's power is to ascertain the
representative character of the petitioners and the validity
of the title or grant.
Now, had it been the intention of Congress to claim by
abandonment and prescription, would they have made this
saving? They knew the claim dated back more than a hundred years, for the act speaks of the " alleged grant in
1750;" and they knew, therefore, that no claimant in pos..
sessien could, by a private suit, be ousted or disturbed by
these representatives. All claimants in possession could set
':p lapse of time successfully against the suit nowauthoria:cd, and therefore needed no such exception for their pro0,ction. Congress knew, also, that if mere non-occupation
by the grantees and their representatives afforded the United States a good ground for continuing to hold possession, they themselves were protected by the same state of
facts; indeed, if they intended to avail themselves of it, this
great lapse of time and non-occupancy was a defence, and
the passage-of the act was a worse than useless ceremony;
for it invited and led parties to undertake a lawsuit which
Congress knew must fail.
Such could not have been the intention of Congress.
Many of the claims protected by this exception were of
very ancient date, and were acted upon by the commissioners under the act of February 21, 1823, as will be seen in the
seventh volume of the Report of the Commissioners on the
"lains at Saul S. Marie," all founded on occupancy, which,
in some instances, was asserted to have commenced nearly
a century befbre the passage of the act.*
Now, look at the posture of the case after proof of the
validity of the grant has been made, if the defence of abanSee Rep. No. 42, 20th Cong., 1st Sess., Com. Pub. Lands, H. Rep's, p.
451, and pa.ticularly the claim of the Messrs. Warren, pp. 463, 464, and the
testimony of John Johnston and Michael Cadotte.

238

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

donment and prescription by the United States is enter,ained. The court is well satisfied that the original grant
was valid and perfect, giving a complete right of possession
And enjoyment " inperpetuity," as the grant expresses it.
But the court proceeds to allow the grant to be defeated
by an alleged act of abandonment of indefinite subsequent
date, and declares that although thus satisfied, the claimants
have lost their once valid title, and are, therefore, not authorized ' to receive the warrants."
Is it not clear that, if such a defence is permitted and successfully made out by proof, the question of ' the validity
of the title" becomes an immaterial question ? and that the
question of possession is the only true one ? IS not the
paper title thus treated as of no importance ?
It may be said that by the 'terms " validity of the title"
Congress intended the present and not merely the former
validity of the title, and that to make out a valid title the
proof must show that the ancient formal title has been kept
alive and in vigor.
But such is not their language; such was not their policy
in the Michigan act of 1804, nor in the Missouri act of 1824.
Advert to historical facts. Virginia, it is known, took
actual possession of the Northwest Territory in 1778 and
1779, under Colonel George Rogers Clark. He captured
Fort Vincennes in February, 1779, made a prisoner of
Hamilton, the British Governor of Detroit, and sent him to
Virginia.* The United States have claimed the region as
rightful owners since the cession by Virginia, and were in
actual possession of it from July, 1796, when the British garrison was withdrawn from the fort at the Saut, a de jure possession of seventy-six and an actual possession of sixty-four
years-using the tract for their own purposes.
The construction contended for implies that possession by
the grantees or their representatives was and is essential to
this present valid title. But how absurd to enact such a law
in their own favor while the United States well knew that
1 Hlarshall's Life of Washington, 284; Allbach's Western Annals, 263295.

Dee. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

239

Argument for the claimants.

they, and not we, had possession for three-quarters of a century, they using it and selling it in spite of us, the lawful
owners.
Besides, the most natural meaning of the expression "validityof the title," is the legal regularity and force of the origina] title-papers referred to. We say, both in common and
legal parlance, that a deed, barred by a statute of limitations
or matter cx post,faclo, is not good ; but seldom say that it
is not valid. The term " valid," as used in the expressions
a " valid deed," a '' valid bond," a "' valid note," a " valid
agreenient," a "' valid contract," refers'usually to the effect
of the instrument at the time it is made, and not to its effect
when destroyed or impaired by subsequent matter.
Is it not ineonceivable that Congress, with the full knowledge of all the faets of the case, except as to the validity of
the original grant, about which they wished judieial decision,
intended to rely upov abandonment and prescription, when
not one word is contained in the act indicating such a purpose-a purpose which, as we have said, if sustained by law
and fact, utterly defeats us ? Did they intend to say to the
claimants: "' We well knew you had the legal title, but we
knew, at the same time, that we held the land, not by grant
or cession, but by mere lapse of time ? Such is our, reply, and
our only reply, to your legal grant."
It is not easy to conceive of an artifice so little worthy of
a government, a plea so wanting in frankness and fair
dealing.
Moreover, we deny that there is any law of the United
States assuming to give to the government this right to the
lands of private owners, growing out of lapse of time.
Under the laws of nations there is no prescription as between a government and its subjects, although in municipal
codes it is allowed as between private persons for the sake
of repose. Ordinarily, it is the sovereign political power
that gives the title. How strange would be the anomaly of
its retaining the right to use its omnipotent power to turn
the grantee out and resume the possession as against his
heirs at law.

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

But, in point of fact, the grantees entered into possession
and held and cultivated the tract for several years.
It is an historical fact that from the treaty of Aix-la-Cha
pelle, in 1748, there had been disturbances of a threatening
character between the English and French colonies in America, which ended in the formal war known as the "1French"
or " Seven Years' War," of which England did not make her
declaration until May, 1756, the year after the battle of the
Monongahela, under Braddock and the then Colonel Vashington.*
The Chevalier de Repentigny was ordered to the Saut St.
Marie by Governor La Jonqui~re in 1750. The purpose of
his being sent there was to afford an asylum to the French
travellers who were constantly passing frorn Quebec and
Montreal up the Ottawa River, crossing over the portage to
Lake Huron, and coasting along its northern shore to the
Saut St. Marie, one of the central points for intercourse
with the natives, and which had been taken possession of by
the French nearly a century befbre; and thence visiting the
missionary and trading-posts on Lake Superior at Point Iroquois, Missipocoton (on the northern shore), Point St. Esprit
(now La Pointe), Green Bay, and other places settled by the
Jesuits. The time and manner of making these ancient and
remote settlements are minutely given in "'Les Relations des
Jesuites."t
The letter of Governor de la Jonqui~re of October 5, 1751,
is a full admission hy the Governor of Canada that the Chevalier had in good faith entered into possession and at his own
expense built the fort and three houses for the public accommodation, cleared and planted land on the seigniory, and
brought there eight head of cattle and two horses.
The receipt of this letter is acknowledged by the minister,
and the establishment of that place approved by him, undir
date June46, 1752.
Franquet's map bears date the same year, 1752, and would,
4 Bancroft's History of the United States, 233; Johnson v McIntosh,
8 Wheaton, 543.
t Vols. 1, 2, 8.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES

V. REPENTIGNY.

241

Argumient for the claimants.

perhaps, tend to show that the minister had directed him to
make an actual survey of this seigniory and of the fortifica.
tion on it.

The letters of Governor Duquesne of 24th April, 1754, to
the Chevalier do Repentigny, and or the same governor to

Machant, the colonial minister, dated Quebec, 13th October,
1754, are to the same effect as the other correspondence. Ie(
was not there simply as an agent of the government.
Ls
own "private advantage" in the culture of lands, called
"your lands," is spoken of in the above-quoted letters as
one of the objects for which he went out; it being mentioned also that he was "1busily engaged in the settlement
of his post."
Thus we have a direct admission from the French government itself that the Chevalier was at the Saut St. Marie
from some time in 1749 to October, 1754, engaged in cultivating the fief and building a tort, houses, &e. But the articles of partnership with De Langy and others for the management of the trading-post till 1762, his putting in all his
merchandise at said post, the stipulation that his partners
wsre not at liberty to quit the post, the power of attorney to
Iiis wife to manage all his business, her authority to Quenel
to receive one-third part of all the packages of peltrics belonging to her husband at the Saut, and also those which
the Sieur Cadotte might have in his hands,-Cadotte being
here treated as a mere agent, a tenant, or c)nploy of the
Chevalier, and it being here shown that the partnership was
still in existence under the continuation clause,-all prove
that, through his partners and his wife, the Chevalier was in
personal possession in the atitumn of 1762.
For the further proof of continuation of possession we
have the narrative of intelligent travellers, not stated as a
part of the case, but very proper to be so stated ; certainly
proper to be read and relied on by the court.
On the 19th of May, 1762, Alexander Henry, the traveller,
as he tells us in his travels,* visited the post and found Cadotte
See Henry's Travels, p. 57 to 63.
VOL. V.

16

UNITED STATES V. 1REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the claimants.

there with his Indian wife and his family. Henry describes
the fort, and says he found four houses there, one for the
governor, one for the ikterprcter Cadotte, and the other
two. used for barracks. The only family was Cadotte's,
whose wifb was a Chippeway woman. Henry staid with
Cadotte during the winter of 1762-63, and he says that
during the season a small detachment of troops under com
mand of Lieutenant Jemet arrived to garrison the fort;-.
he states also that on the 22d of December, 1762, while Ca"dotte was in possession as interpreter, a fire broke out and
consumed all the. houses (except Cadotte's), a part of the
stockade, all the provisiofis for the troops, and part of the
fish lenry himselLhad taken.*
During the spring of 1763, Henry was made a prisoner at
Mitehilliiackinac, in the 'Pontiac War," but was liberated
by a friendly Indian, and returning to the Saut in company
with Madame Cadotte, found Cadotte there.t
In July, 1765, Henry arrives at the Saut from Miehillimackinac with goods for the Indians, and took Cadotte in as
partner.1
When Mr. Alexander McKenzie§ was there in 1787 or
1788, he found there a Canadian trader, receiving, forwarding, and storing goods. Was not this Cadotte ?
The evidence of Gornon and his wife, and of Biron, is admissible to show the traditionary existence of the seigniory,.
and that old Cadotte was the employ6 of the Chevalier.Ij
The letter of La Jonquigre to the minister in France, October 5th, 1751, establishes that the Chevalier had " engaged," or employed a Frenchman, whose wife was an Indian woman, to take a piece of land and raise Indian corn.
We hear of no other such Frenchman, and this statement
of Governor Jonqui~re corroborates the testimony of the
three Saut St. Marie witnesses.
In a transaction so ancient this proof of the identity of
See Henry's Travels, p. 57 to 68.
t Id. 164.
Id. 192, 193.
McKenzie's Voyages, 86, 37.
Ellicott v.Pearl, 10 Peters, 434; Stockton v.Williams, 1 Douglass, Mich
igan, 571.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

213

Argument for the claimants.

old Cadotte with the husband of the Indian woman ought
to be considered satisfactory ; and if so, it follows that his
possession was our possession, and we are entitled to the
benefit of it and of that of the grantees or claimants under
him. For it is quite manifest that old Cadotte assumed
rights which belonged to the grantees, knowing them to be
such, if his granddaughter and her husband and Biron are
to be believed; for they all testify that be was a voyageur,
and obviously but . mere servant of the Chevalier.
Thus the fact of actual possession, improvement, and occupation, by himself, for six years commencing in 1749, is
proved by the direct as well as the historiqal and traditionary evidence; and it was a fulfilment of the copdition subsequent contained in the ratification, relating to possession.
Authorities show that the " abandonment" must be on
the part of the owner a complete renunciation and giving
up of the thing, with intent not heneeforth to reassert any
dominion over it.*
There never was an intention to abandon here on the part
of either grantee. This appears from all the actings of the
claimants and their ancestors; and the circumnstances of
their situation excuse their actual occupation after the time
that they did actually occupy it.
Both grantees were officers in the French army. The
post was very remote and exposed. The French war had
been brewing all along the frontier for years, as history
shows, rendering occupation difficult and dangerous. Captain IDe Bonne, one of the grantees, was killed in De Levi's
attempt to retake Quebec in 1760. The Chevalier was in
the same battle.
De Bonne left his only child and heir at law, Then an infant not two years old. By the. act of the Provincial Parliament of January 1, 1763, this child did not come of age til
1779, durink the Revolutionary war, during all of which he
Grotius, B. II, ch. 4, 5, 1-5;
6, 1-2;
7, 1-2;
8, 4; 9, 1-2,
Kluber's Droit des Gens (Paris ed. of 1861),
6, 125, 12U. 128; Vattel, B.
2, ch. 11,
144, 145, 146.

244

UNITED STATES' V. REPENTIGNY.

[Su11p. Ct'

Argument for the claimants.

was of course an alien enemy of the United States. But he
was not indifferent to his rights. Before the close of the
war, and on the 13th of February, 1781, he (id faith and
homage for the tract. That act was strong evidence, not
perhaps of title, but against abandonment, and shows clearly
an intention not to renounce the claim, and it was, under
the circumhstances, all Do Bonne could do. Its acceptance
by the British governor was clear evidence of an official recognition of his title.
The Chevalier was engaged in active service during the
French war, and long befbre its declaration.
In the spring of 1763 the Pontiac war broke out, in which
the whole frontier was desolated by the INdians, from Lake
Superior to the wilds of Western Pennsylvania and the Mississippi River, and almost all our frontier posts captured.
The garrison at Miehillimaekinac, within forty miles of the
Saut St. Marie, was cruelly butchered, at which time there
was no white man at that post but old Cadotte, whose wife
was an Indian woman.* Parkinant says, that, except the
garrison at Detroit, not a British soldier now remained in
the reogion of the Lakes.
These Indian troubles did not cease to agitate the frontier
during the whole of the Revolutionary war; nor did they
cease with the war. It is well known that the British government, desirous to bring the boundary of Canada down to
the river Ohio, as defined by the Quebec act of 1774 for the
province of Quebec, persisted in withholding from us the
WTestern posts, and stirring up the savages against us; and
that the Indian wars were incessant down to the conclusion
of the treaty of Greenville, August 2d, 1795.,T
It would oe absurd to require the gr"antees to have held
possession of this remote and exposed point during all this
See 5 Bancroft's History of the United States, ch. 7; Parknian's History
of Pontiac's Conspiracy, es. 16, 17, 19, 20, 21; Henry's Travels; Allbach's
Annals of the West, 161 to 168.
f Page 322. '
j Allbach, 656, 661 ; 16 American State Papers, 562, 583; 7 Statutes ai
Large, 49, for the treaty.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES '. REPENTIGNY.

245

Argument for the claimants.

dangerous period. The Indians loved the French. The
protection of that government was withdrawn, and from
1763 down to 1796 (the date at which, by the second section
of the treaty of commerce of 1794, Great Britain withdrew
her troops and surrendered the posts), the place was in the
actual possession of the English, whom the Indians disliked.
Here was a term of thirty-three years during which it was
plainly unsafe to attempt, to hold and occupy the tract.
While the Revolutionary war was in progress it was unreasonable to expect young De Bonne, a British subject,. or
the Chevalier, a French subject, to occupy it.
In 1783, the year of the peace, lie was sent off Governor
of Senegal on the coast of Africa. Ile rcmained there till
1785, when he asked a furlough to return to France for his
health. In 1786, he died at Paris. On his leaving Canada
for France, in 1764, his wife remained behind, with a general
power of attorney executed in 1759. And under this power
she acted in 1766.
Gaspard, the son of the Chevalier, from 1786 until his
death was in the marine service of France, figtiting its battles and being wounded in its cause, yet from 1798 we find
him giving his attention to the property, as well as a French
sailor in distant parts of the world possibly could do to such
a sort of estate. He makes an acte de nolori0t , a caeat and
solemn declaration of rights, which should remain in perp)eluam nemnoriam rei.
The Saut St. Marie, Michillimackmnac, aid other feeble
settlements on the upper lakes, were unknown, and so remained until Sehooleraft visited them in 1820. He found
them merely fur-trading establishments.
ie says of the
Sant, " The dwelling-houses on the north side of the Strait,
six or seven in number, belong to the French and English
families."
McKenzie,* who visited the Saut between 1787 and 1793,
says, that " the village on the south shore, formerly a place
of great resort for the inhabitants of Lake Superior, and
* Voyages, p. 88, London ed. uf 1812.

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

consequently of considerable trade, is now dwindled t,
nothing."
In their memorial to Congress of December, 1811, the
principal citizens of Detroit do not even enumerate the Saut
as a settlement of Michigan. They say the whole population of the territory then amounted to 4762 souls, of whom
four-fifths were French.* There was no means of reaching
the Saut from tie lower lakes except through immense
pathless forests, or by means of bark canoes.
In June, 1812, war broke out between the United States
and Great Britain, and continued until December 24th, 1814.
The first blow in this war was struck at Mackinac, which at
once fell into the enemy's hands; and that point, as well as
the Saut, were held by the British troops until they left the
country, in 1815. In point of fact, the Saut had been under
British authority from the time Jemet, in behalf of British
arms, then victorious over France, took possession in 1762,
down to 1815. The attention of our own government seems
not to have been directed to this remote spot until 1820,
when the Speretary of War, Mr. Calhoun, in a letter to
Governor Cass, of April 5th, instructed him to acquire a
small piece of land from the Indians for military purposes.
And there is no historical evidence that the American jurisdictiohi was exercised there until the organization of the
County of Chippeway, in 1827,t the year after the caveat on
behalf of De Bonne was filed in the General Land Office,
and the memorial of Mrs. Slacke was presented by Mr.
Cambreling.
The whole region was an unreclaimed wilderness, and the
place inaccessible save by means of canoes, and wholly occupied by the Northwestern Fur Company and their agents.
No one then but old Cadotte and his family had any knowledge of the grant to Dc Bonne and De Repentigny. Such
was the condition of the Saut.
The British thus held it in their possession for more than
sixty years-wrongfully, from 1783 to 1796 (if' they left
5 American State Papers, 781.

Territorial Code of 1827, p. 592.

Dee. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.
Argument forthe claimanfz.

it then, which they did not), and wrongfully from 1814
onward. Did Congress, in passing the act of 1860, intend
to avail themselves of this wrongful possession of Great
Britain ?
It cannot be pretended that the United States were in
actual possession longer than from 1796 to 1812 (16 years),
and from 1815, the close of the war, down to 1825 (10 years),
when the king's grant was presented; making an actual occupancy of only 26 years.
But in this very act the United States limit the claimants
to two years for the institution of their suit. Was not this
a yielding up of all objection on account of the lapse of time,
during which the alleged abandonment and prescription
had run ?
The fact that the government of' the United States has
extinguished the Indian title is without weight. It was the
duty of' the government to extinguish it. Private persons
could not treat with the Indians.*
As to non-fulfilnIent of the condition to improve the fief
and cause it to be held and possessed by the tenants of the
grantees,--that was a condition subsequent. And it was fulfilled.
We have as we think proved our personal possession till
1754, and that old Cadotte, who was in possession aiterwards,
was really our agent or tenant. If his heirs or grantees were
in court insisting upon their individual claimnis as against us,
they could not be allowed to change, by mere intention and
without notice to us, the character of the original possession;
and we should be able to insist that that possession was ours;
for where the possession is jointly held by the owner and
the tenant, the statute of limitations (toes not begin to run
until the tenant's adverse possession has become notorious,
precluding all doubt of the character of the holding and all
want of knowledge in the owner.1
In point of fact the seigniory has never been vacant. The
Johnson v. McIntusl, 8 Wheaton, 543; United States v. Fernandez, 10
Peterg, 3Q3.
T Zeidir v. Eckert, 4 IIowlard, 295, &

248

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

original possession under the grant was ours, and the government were bound to take notice of the fact that the gratnt
was made, and bound by the legal presumption that the pos.
session was under and by virtue of it. They could not presume that the white settlers there were mere "squatters"
claiming by tortious entry.
We have a right to claim not only that the grantees actually took possession and made improvements, but that all
pe'rsons subsequently in possession held under them; and
that therefore not only the condition of taking possession
under the grant but also tlhat of continuing it, has been performed. Thus the titlQ becomes absolute by the performance of the condition.*
In the c, se of United States v. Arredondo,t where the grant
was a perfet -grant conveying the fee of the land, the condition was that the grantee should establish on the land
200 Spanish families, with all the requisites, &c., and should
carry this into effect in three years, this court held the condition void by the act of the grantor, Spain, by whom Florida
was ceded to the United States within the two years. The
Florida treaty of 18201 provided that the lands should be
confirmed to persons in possession of them. And the court
say:
" The law deems every man to be in legal seizin and possession of land to which he has a perfect and complete title. The
seizin and possession is coextensive with his right and continues
until he is ousted thereof by an actual adverse possession. This
is a settled principle of the common law recognized and adopted
by this court."

If, in our case, the grantees failed in continuing in possession, they failed because France herself failed to hold possession of the country.' Such failures should be excused.§
By the laws of nations the conqueror acquires only the
public and political rights belonging to the sovereign whom
j 8 Stat. at Large, 258.
t 6 Peters, 693.
2 Cruise's Dig. 24.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 745; Glenn v. United States, 13
Howard, 257.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

249

Argument against the claim.

he opposes. The rights of private property do not pass to
him by the conquest, and he is bound to respect and protect
them.*
As respects reunion to the king's domain, which the
answer alleges under the royal arret of 1732 relating to the
sale of wooded or timbered lands, and the arret of Marly,
the decrees never contemplated the reunion of lands cleared,
occupied, and stocked, as these were. Independently of
which, Judge Badgley, at present perhaps the most learned
jurist in the province, tells us that under the arrt of 1711,
the proceedings were strictly judicial. And so Chief Justice
Lafontaine, discussing the subject in a printed work,l says:
"I have already stated that under the operation of the different arr~ts of retrenchment it seemed to me necessary, to proceed
regularly, previously to pronounce the reunion to the crown domain, even when the word reunion was not written in the arr~t."
[The learned counsel then, in reply to the allegation of the
answer, argued that the grant was abundantly certain and
could be located, the Franquet map of 1752, with the description of the grant and ratification, indicating it sufficiently.]
Ar. Stanbery, Altorney-General, and ir. Afred Russel, District Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan, contra:
If the construction of the act of Congress set up by the
other side is the true one, that is to say, if tlhe only question
which was to be passed upon, was the original validity of the
grant, nine-tenths of the discussion have been irrelative;
and there neither is nor ever has been any question in the
case. It required no courts to settle whether the deed was
a genuine one; and-the strong attempt to place the matter
on such a view concedes away, in fact, the case. It admits
that the difficulties, if any other view be taken, are insurmountable.
It is no such question that the act meant that the courts
Vattel, 574, 575.

f Seigniorial Questions, vol. B, p. 389 a.

250

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the claim.

should settle. We are not here to resuscitate a dead title,
but to inquire whether there is one now existing. We are
discussing an actual thing, considering not what was a centur.y and a quarter ago, but what is at this time. Blackstone,* adopting Coke's definition, tells us, "Ti ulus est justa
causa possidendi id quod nostrum est." And Congress never
meant that its courts were to recognize as "a title" that
which now is defective in law, defective in equity, defective
in moral justice, defective every way, merely because the
deed which conveyed it one hundred and sixteen years ago
was genuine. We admit that the act of 1821, enabling
claimants of lands in Missouri and Arkansas to try the validity of those titles, did not apply to perfect titles; but Congress, by putting this claim, in the act of 1860, under that
act, declared this title not to be a perfect one.
The questions, then, of lapse of time, abandonment, nonfulfilment of conditions, extinguishment of Indian titles,
reunion to the crown, &c., are most proper to be inquired
into.
As to-limitations by prescription, the case of United States
v. Arredondo settles that this proceeding is substantially a
bill in equity. The petitioners are barred by the rules of
equity proper, which are in strict " analogy with the rules
of law, whenever any statute has fixed the period of limitation."t

This court has repeatedly held that reasonable diligence
is necessary, even if no statute of limitations exists which is
applicable,1
This claim had its origin when George II was King of
England, and Louis XV King of France, twenty-six years
2 Commentaries, 195.

t Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jacob and Walker, 138-174; Bonny v. Ridgard, 1 Cox, 145; Andrew v. Wrigley, 4 Brown's Chancery, 138; Smith v.
Clay, Amblar, 645; Bond v. Hopkins, 1 Schoales aod Lefroy, 429; Medli.
cott v. O'Donel, 1 Ball and Beatty, 164; Davie v. Beardsham, 1 Chancery
Cases, 39.
1 Bowman v: Wathen, 1 Howard, 189; McKnight v. Taylor, Id. 161:
United States v. Moore, 12 Id. 222; Maxwell v. Kennedy, 8 Id. 210; Piat.t
v. Vattier, 9 reters, 405.

)ec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES

v.

REPENTIGNY.

251

Argument against the claim.

jefore the United States took their place in the family of
nations; and the reports, English and American, may be
searched in vain for an instance of the upholding of a claim
of one-half the age of this.
A lapse of forty years and change of value renders a claim
stale, though there be no fraud.* And possession which
would bar an ejectment will also bar an equitable title.t
Now, De Bonne never had possession at all, and of the
Chevalier de Rcpentigny we never hear again in this region after his improvements were burned in 1762. The
British crown took possession in that year.1
De Bonne rendered homage in 1781, but that was not a
substitute for actual scizin, still less for compliance with the
conditions subsequent; and at all events it could not enure
to the benefit of his co-grantee.
Do Bonne's representatives first petitioned Congress in
December, 1826. Do Repentigny's representatives in May,
1841. No efg'elual proceedings were had by either before
Congress until 1860.
Under these circumstances, a possession acquired by the
government of the country, existing for a century, and acquiesced in for so many years by those whose interest and
duty it was to disturb it, if it had been wrongful, is not now
to be presumcd, in the absence of all proof, to have been
wrongfully or illegally, or even irregularly acquired.
Does Cadotte's occupancy affect the case? There is, it appears, partly from public records and ancient printed book38 of
travels, and partly from the depositions of living witnesses,
evidence that between 1750 and 1762 the French and English governments, and at a date subsequenit to 1762, among
others a person named Cadotte, and his descendants, through
whom the petitioners do not claim, were seized of the most
prominent and important part of the lands; but there is no
evidence of Cadotte's being the agent of De Repentigny's
descendants, and still less of any privity of title of any kind

f

Wagner v. Baird, 7 Howard, 234.
Hunt v. Wickliffe, 2 Peters, 201.

tenry's Travels, p. 61.
H

UNITED

STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the claim.

between De Repentigny and him. It was customary for the
French settlers in general to take Indian wives; in fact,
their lives were insecure otherwise; and it is almost as likely
that Cadotte was not the person referred to in the mention
of the Frenchman who had married an Indian as that he
was. Certainly the court cannot so strongly presume that
this Frenchman was Cadotte as to give a decree on the
strength of it.
1. The *ract was not occupied, and reverted, by natural law,
to the superior domain. The only occupation alleged, and
the only effort to comply vith the conditions, was on the
part of the Chevalier de Repentigny, one of the grantees,
and who, it may be added, appears from a very early period
to have held his share in severalty.
Yet De Repentigny's was only a temporary, and to some
extent a mere official occupation. Henry* says that under
the French government there was kept a small garrison,
commanded by an officer who was called the Governor, but
was in fact a clerk, who managed the Indian trade on government account.
The letter of October 5th, 1751, from La Jonqui~re to the
Minister of Marine and the Colonies (see it, supra, pp. 21920), shows that Repentigny went more as an ambassador
from the French to the Indians than in any other manner.
The letter from Versailles of June 16th, 1752, and signed T.
(see it, supra, pp. 217-19), shows as clearly that settlement
on private account was a thing that was specially guarded
against by the French crown.
The most liberal interpretation of the case will not warrant the court in assuming more than that from 1751 to 1755,
1100 pickets were got out and a stockade fort built, that
some few acres were cultivated and some six or eight head
of cattle purchased; while, on the other hand, it is certain
that the whole was abandoned by Repentigny in or about
1755, and if our idea of Cadotte's relation to the matter is a
true one, has remained so ever since; De Bonne's moiety
never having been enteied at all.
Travels, p. 58.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES

v.

REPENTIGNY.

253

Argument against the 3laim.

To hold that such improvement of the land, and then
ceasing to improve, satisfies the condition of the grant, would
effectually render null those considerations of public policy
which prompted the grant in the first place.
On the treaty of 1783, between Great. Britain and the
United States, the land, assuming it to have been once occupied, had then been for twenty-eight years wholly unoccupied,
and being thus derelict, an hereditasjacens, it passed with the
rest of Michigan to the United States. Even if not previously, it then reverted to the public domain of the United
States by right of eminent domain independently of the prorisions of tlhe grant.
. 2. It was in form, as well as fact, abandoned. Certainly so,
as respects Do Repentigny.
Every owner of property, whether real or personal, may
abandon it.* The abandonment of a perfect title can, indeed, never be presumed and is proved with difficulty; an
imperfect one rests on a different base. The abandonment
may be by matter in pais.t So, too, the question of whether
one has been made may be considered in examining "the
validity" of titles..
The Chevalier deliberately declined the requirements of
the British Governor-General. "ie
could preserve his
property only by an oath of fidelity to his new master,
which was too hardfor his heart."
His own interpretation of the treaty of 1763, therefore was
that, if he (lid not take the oath of allegiance to the King of
England, he would absolutely and altogether lose his property, aid that lie had actually lost it, because he would not
take the oath.
Ite preferred French allegiance and French military service, and does not appear to have even in form become a
British subject, or complied with the 4th article of the treaty
of 1763 (which was an enabling instrument in regard to the
* Kinsman v. Loomis, 11 Ohio, 479, and see Tayl6r v. Hampton, 4 McCord,
16, 102.
" United States v. Moore, 12 Howrd, 222.
] United States v. Fossatt, 21 Id. 445.

254

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument.against the claim.

sales it contemplated), by selling his estate to a British subject.
His descendants all trod in his steps. They were by birth
and otherwise to all intents and purposes aliens; they were
thus, under the laws of Canada, between 1763 and 1783, incapable of devising and taking by devise as well as of in
heriting, if not also of holding, land.*
3. It rererted for treach of condition.
Why did the King of France grant out this principality335 square miles of territory ? He granted much and expected'much. The grantees gave no money, they rendered
no service. The king's purpose was to found a colony. le
contemplated sub-grants. The coneessees held by homage.
They had from time to time to renew that homage. They
were to make a place of refuge for travellers. None of the
ends were accomplished, or for more than four years were
attempted to be. The substance of the consideration has
thus been withheld.
The case of United States v. Arredondo, relied on by the
opposite counsel, only goes so ftr as to declare a grant discharged of conditions when their performance becomes impossible by the act of the grantor, but that is not the case
here; there was no necessity whatever for either De Repentigny or De Bonne or their successors neglecting the performance of the conditions; the true reason appears from
the evidence. * Repentigny, like a gallant soldier, was not
willing to desert his king. It was "too hard for his heart"
to swear allegiance to the new master, lie deliberately
made a sacrifice of his property to his sense of loyalty. As
for the alienees of De Bonne, it seems to have been a matter
of selfish calculation simply. They calculated that, under
the rule of the United States and by the energy and enterprise of its citizens, it would be more profitable for them
to wait, as absentees, the development of the resources of
the estate.
" Dcnegani v. Donegani, Stuart's Reports (Csnada), 460, 605; Pacquet v
Gaspard, Id. 143.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES V.

REPENTIG-NY.

255

Argument against the claim.

The case falls completely within the expressions in Flremont v. United States,* where it is said that, " if there were
any unreasonable delay or want of effbrt to fulfil the conditions, it may be justly presumed that the claimant . ...
is
now endeavoring to resume his ownership after the lands
have become enhanced in value under the government of
the United States."
And thus-after a century's absence by the grantees from
the soil on which they could be sued, a century's repudiation
of their duties, a century's abandonment of their rights, and
a century's acquiescence in adverse possession, they found a
claim for restitution; they now wish to realize the result of
the calculations, by which the inaction of some of the partiew is sought to be excused, and to reap the fruits of the
exertions of others in promoting the settlement, developing the resources, and increasing the value of the property
during their absence; exertions to which, though bound before and beyond all persons to contribute most, they have,
of all persons, contributed the least.
The intention of De Repentigny to abandon is evident
from his documents and letters.4. The fief reverted, b.? feudal law and the custom, of Paris.
The grant, as we have said, was subject strictly to feudal
conditions, a class of conditions, as we know, common by
the laws of France in the time of Louis XV. They were
obviously founded in the nature of such a vast gift. We
need not quote authorities to show that by the feudal law,a law of France as much or more than of England, for the
feudal system came to England from France,-the lands
would revert for condition broken. The answer against
this reversion is:
1st. That by the feudal laws of Canada, no forfeiture could
take place under the practice or without the judgment of a
peculiar court.
2dly. That this judgment has never been obtained.
*

Howard, 655.

256

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the claim.

3dly. That until it shall be obtained they are entitled to
the benefit of the grtnt of 1751.
The petitioners assume, gratuitously, perhaps, that no
legal proceedings were ever taken by the British government to obtain a judicial decree.or judgment of reunion or
forfeiture; it being to be, remarked, that the records oil
which the proof of this depends were never at any tini,
under the control of the United States.
We do not acknowledge the practice of Canada to be as
stated. The fief, we srppose, upon being deserted in 1755,
reverted to the crown, ipso facto. It would certainly have
done so by our own law. In a ease quite similar to this,
the mere ftict of leaving the country and becoming domiciled
abroad was held to work forfeiture ipso .facto without necessity for adjudication of forfeiture.*
But if the formality of a judgment is necessary, the court
in adjudicating has power to make this decree of forfeiture
and reunion now, and without any substantive suit or pleading in the nature of a cross-bill for the purpose. A judgment of reunion is matter of form, and may be pronounced
at the present as well as any past time.
These remarks apply to both moieties. But as we have
seen that the Chevalier de Repentigny's half was lost, because, in form and with deliberation, abandoned after the
conquest, so another cause operated upon the residue ; the
arrgt of 1732, whereby any attempt to sell wooded lands, such
as these then were, absolutely reunited the fief by operation
of law to the superior domain. Thus De Bonne's share in
A.D. 1796, and A.D. 1798 upon his and Caldwell's attempts
to sell it, stood reunited pleno jure (demeurait runie de plein
droil), by that sale, without any special judicial decree, previously made, being necessary.
5. [The learned counsel then went into an argument to
show that the description was so vague, that the land never
having been severed from the royal domain, the grant could
not be located.]
Bowmer v. Hicks, 22 Texas, 165.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

257

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delive'ecl the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case was filed in the court below to recover
possession of a large tract of land of six leagues square, fronting on the River St. Marie, at the Saut, which con.nects the
waters of Lake Superior with those of Lake Huron, in tle
State of Michigan. The grant of' the land was made on the
18th October, 1750, by the governor and intendant-general
of Canada (then called New France), to Louis Do Bonne, a
captain of infantry, and Count Repentigny, an ensign, in
the French army. The complainants derive title under
them. It was confirmed by the King of France the next
year, oil the 24th June, 1751.
The grant was to De Bonne and Repentigny, their heirs
and assigns, " in perpetuity by title of' feof alid seigniory,"
with all the customary rights belonging to that species of estate. Repentigny went into possession about the date of the
grant, at the Saut, having about the same time"reecived an
appointment to command the military post established there.
lie constructed a small stockade fort, and made some improvements in connection with it, such as the clearing-of a
few acres of land and the ere6tion of huts for the people
with him, and continued thus engaged till 1754. When
war broke out between France and England lie was called
away into active military service of the government, and
never afterwards returned. De Bonne never took personal
possession, or possession of any other character, except that
derived from the transient occupation of his co-tenant.
The bill was filed on the 9th January, 1861, one hundred
and ten yeai's since the date of the grant.
We will now refer to the act of Congress,,passed April
19th, 1860, under which the bill was filed.
It provides that the legal representatives of the original
grantees may present their petition to the District Court of
the State of Michigan, setting forth the nature of their claim
to .certain lands at the Saut St. Marie, under an alleged grant
in 1750, with evidence in support of it, and praying that the
validity of the title may be inquired into, and the court is
authorized to examine the same; and, in adjudicating upon
VOL. v.

17

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the validity as against the United States, to be governed by
the law of nations and of the country from which the title
was derived, and also by the principles, so far as they are
applicable, which are, recognized in the act of Congress of
the 26th May, 1824. This act, which was passed to enable
claimants to lands situate within the State of Missouri to try
their titles before the United States District Court, directed
that the claims should be heard and determined in conformity with the principles of justice, and according to the laws
and ordinances of the government under which the titles
originated; also, according to the law of nations and the
stipulations. of treaties.
This act of 1860, which authorizes the institution of these
proceedings, was passed in pursuance of petitions to Congress
by the representatives of the original grantees. The first
notice to this government of any claim to the lands on their
behalf was in the year 1825 or 1826, some seventy-five years
after the date of the grant. Since then the subject has, from
time to time, been brought to the attention of Congress,
and finally disposed of by the passage of the act in question.
The act, as we have seen, refers the claimants to the judiciary
for relief, and prescribes the principles which shall govern
it in hearing and adjudicating upon the case. They are1. The law of nations.
2. The laws of the country from which the title was derived.
3. The principles of justice.
4. The stipulations of treaties.
In the light of these principles, we shall proceed to an examination of the claim; and, first,'as to the claim of the
representatives of Repentigny.
le was a native of Canada,
and-a captain in the French army at the close of the war,
which terminated in the surrender of that province to the
British forces, in 1760. His family was among the earliest
emigrants to the country after possession had been taken by
the King of France, and held high and influential positions
in the government. Soon after the execution of the definitive treaty of peace of 1763, the 'Governor of Canada opened

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

259

Opinion of the court.

a correspondence with Repentigny to induce him to remain
in the province, and become a subject of Great Britain,
promising him protection and advancement in his profession.
Ite was then about thirty-eight years of age. But he de'lined all the advances made to him, and soon after left the
country, by order of his superior officer, to take a command
on the Island of Newfoundland, where the Indians were disturbing the settlers, and spent the rest of his life in the military service of France, having risen to the rank of MajorGeneral and Governor of Senegal, on the Island of Goree,
and its dependencies. He died in 1786, leaving a son, Gaspard, an officer in the French naval service, from whom the
present claimants descended, and who reside in the Island
of Guadaloupe. Th e preliminary treaty of the 3d November, 1762, at the surrender of Canada, provided in the second
article, in behalf of his Britannic majesty, that the French
inhabitants, or others who would have been subjects of the
Most Christian King, in Canada, may retire in all safet}- and
freedom, wherever they please, and may sell their estates,
provided it be to his Britannic majesty's subjects, and transport their effects, as well as their persons, without being restrained in their emigration, under any pretence whatsoever,
except debts or criminal prosecutions,-the term limited for
this emigration being the space of eighteen months, to be
computed from the day of the ratification of the definitive
treaty. The definitive treaty of the 10th February of 1763
contained a similar article.
The articles of capitulation at Montreal, dated 8th September, 1760, when the Canadas were given up to the British forces, secured to the inhabitants their property movable
and immovable; and the proclamation of the king, under
date of 7th October, 1763, pledged to his loving subjects of
Canada his paternal care for the security of the liberty and
property of those who are, or should become, inhabitants
thereof. These pledges, both before and after the treaty,
were but the recognition of the modern usages of civilized
nations which have acquired the force of law, even in the
case of an absolute and unqualified conquest of the enemy's

UNITED

STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

country. But the rule is limited, as in the pledge of the
king, in his proclamation to the inhabitants of the conquered
territory, to those who remain and become the subjects or
citizens of the victorious sovercign,-those who, in the language of Chief Justice Marshall, change their allegiance,
and where the relations to their ancient sovereign are dissolved. Speaking of the cession of Florida, he observed:
" Had Florida changed its sovereign by an act containing no
stipulation respecting the property of individuals, the right
of property in all those who became subjects or citizens ef
the new government would have been unaffected by the
change."*
Another rule of public law, kindred to this one is, that
the conqueror who has obtained permanent possession of the
enemy's country has the right to forbid the departure of' his
new sUbjects or citizens from it, and, to exercise his sovereign authority over them. Hence the stipulation in the
capitulation and treaties of cession providing for the emigration of those inhabitants who desire to adhere to their
ancient allegianc, usually fixing a limited period within
which to leave .the country, and frequently extending to
them the privilege, ,i the --meantime, of selling their property, collecting their debts, and carrying with them their
effects.
Now, in view of these.principles, it is apparent that IRepentigny, having refused to continue an i-habitant of Canada, and to become a subject of Great Brithin, but, on the
contrary, elected to adhere in his allegiance to his native
sovereign, and to continue in his service, deprived himself
of any protection, or security of his property, except so far
as it was secured by the treaty. That protection, as we have
seen, was limited to the privilege of sale or sales to British
subjects, and to carry with him his efi ets, at any time within
eighteen months from its ratification. Whatever property
vas left unsold was abandoned to the conqueror. Repenigny acted upon this view of his rights. Besides the prop.
United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 51-87.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

261

Opinion of the court.

erty in question, he owned and possessed a seigniory situate
above Montreal, on the River St. Lawrence, called La Chenay,
which he sold to Colonel Christie, a British officer, and in
the deed it is recited that he had a mind to go to France,
and therefore, as allowed by the late treaty of peace, was
disposed to sell, &c. This was in 1766, although it appears
that steps had been taken in respect to the sale at an earlier
day. It is evident, also, that he had been engaged in negotiating for the sale of the scigniory in question, as in a memorial of his services presented to the chief of the bureau
of the French colonies, he states, under date of 1765, that
the establishment,-referring to that at the Saut St. Marie,was burnt in 1762 by th'e Indians, at the time his attorney
was negotiating at Montreal with the English for the sale of
it. And, in 1772, in a communication to the French authorities on the subject of military services and sacrifices, he
observes: " I thought that after a lease of thirty years of
services, fulfilled with honor in the colonies, and the sacrifice of a fortune more than reasonable, in leaving Canada,
my native country, I should be able at forty-five years of
age to claim a regiment in the colonies without too much
ambition." And again, in answer to an intimation that the
king would give him permission to retire, he observes: " If
I had not calculated upon dying in the service, I should not
have sacrificed more than four-fifths of my fortune, my wellbeing, and that of my family, in abandoning Canada, my
country."
And, further, in a communication to his government, supposed to be about 1773 or 1774, he observed: " The cession
of Canada, my country, has overturned a fortune more than
moderate, which I could preserve only by an oath of fidelity
to the new master, which was too hard for my heart. The
)tiers of the English ministry made to my eldest brother to
etain us in their service are unequivocal proofs of the eonideration we enjoyed in Canada."
ilepentigny was a gentleman of education and high intelligence. He rose to the rank of general in the army, and
aspired to that'of Marshal of France; was Governor of Sen-

262

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

egal and its dependencies, and, as is obvious from his correspondence with his government, comprehended fully the
principles of public law which forfeited all his property left
unsold at the time he retired from Canada, under the provisions of the treaty.
Ile died in 1786, twenty-three years after the date of the
treaty ; and, during all this time, not only set up no claim to
this seigniory, but, on the contrary, repeatedly, as we have
seen, urged the patriotic sacrifice of it to his government, as
a merit tor her favorable consideration of himself and family.
And we may add that his only son, an offleer in the French
navy, and who died in 1808, at the age of fifty-five, also never
set up any claim or right to it to this government, and the
first notice she had of it, so far as the record discloses, was
in 1824 or 1825, from the descendants of this son residing
in the Island Guadaloupe, and who are the complainants in
the suit.
We will now examine the other branch of this case,-the
moiety claimed under De Bonne. Ile wag a captain in the
French service, and fell in the battle of Sillery, in 1760,
under Count de Levi, in an attempt to recapture Quebec.
He left a son, P. A. De Bonne, who was then only two years
old. The family were inhabitants of Canada, remained
after the treaty of 1763, and became subjects of Great 3ritaim. le was of age in 1779, and, in 1781, rendered faith
and homage at the Castle of St. Louis, in Quebec, before the
governor, as required by one of the conditions of the grant
of the seigniory, and which was accepted, and a record made
of it. lie became an eminent barrister in the lower province of Canada, was attorney-general, and afterwards one of
the justices of the King's Bench. In 1796 he sold his interest in the seigniory to James Caldwell, of Albany, New York,
a citizen of that State, and conveyed to him the title. In
1798, Caldwell quit-claimed the premises to Arthur Noble,
an Irish gentleman and an alien, who resided at the time in
the State of New York. le afterwards returned to Ireland,
and died in 1813 or 1814, leaving a will, by which he devised
all his lands in the United States to his nephew, John Slacke,

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.
Opinion of the court.

a barrister in the city of Dublin. Slaeke devised the same,
in 1819, to Agnes, his wife, with power to dispose of this
and other property as she might think fit, and by sundry
deeds and devises, the estate passed to John- btton, the
present claimant, and a lieutenant-colonel in the British
army. All of these parties were British subjects dnd aliens.
The territory within which the premises in question -are
situate, passed from France to England by the treaty of 1763,
and from England to the United States by the definitive
treaty of 1783, according to the boundaries there agreed upon.
And assuming, for the sake of the argument, that the ninth
section of the subsequent treaty of 1794 protected the interest of P. A. De Bonne in the seigniory, the question arises,
whether the present claimant has established any valid title
to it?
The conveyance by Do Bonne to Caldwell, a citizen of the
United States, passed out of him whatever title he may have
had, and vested it in the grantee. It was no longer a French
or English, but an American title, held under the laws of the
United States, and subject to them. The transmission by
deed, devise, or descent, must be according to these laws
and not according to the laws of France or of EgiilandCaldwell held the lands as he held other real property,
under the laws of the government within which they were
situate, the same as if they had been conveyed to him by a
native citizen. The intention of the parties to the treaty
was, that the citizens and subjects of each should be quieted
in the enjoyment of their estates, in the same manner as if
they and their heirs had beon native citizejis and subje.,ts.
And having conveyed to Noble, who, together with those
claiming under him, were aliens, the complainant is iiet
with the objection of alienage.
It appears, however, that since 1805 laws have been passed,
first, by the legislature of the Territory of Michigan, and
afterwards by the State, conferring upon aliens the righ' to
hold lands "by purchase, devise, or descent," which, it is insisted, remove the objection.

Whether or not these laws

apply to lands claimed by the United States as a part of the

264

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

public domain, is a question we shall not enter upon; as we
are inclined to think, upon a lil)eral construction of the act
of Congress under which this suit is brought, this objection
may be regarde'd as waived.
We have thus far stated, somewhat in detail, the present
state of this branch of the title,-the moiety claimed by Rotton, as derived from Do Bonne. And it appears that more
than a century has elapsed since the original grant; and,
during all this time, there ha's been but some four years'
actual possession or occupation by the grantee or those
claiming under him, and that immediately succeeding the
grant. The seigniory has been held under and subject to
the laws of three governments-thirteen years under the
French, twenty under the English, and seventy-seven under
the United States. The first notice this government had
of the title or claim was in 1824-5, forty-two years since
the territory within which the lands are situate came into
her possession. In the meantime her laws have been extended over it, the Indian title extinguished, the lands surveyed and put on sale, and are now, and have been for
years, covered with inhabitants. As early' as 1823, before
this claim was presented to the government, as appears
from the record, a large part of this tract was possessed
and occupied by settlers, and the possession afterwards
confirmed by Congress, and a military post established at
the Saut for their protection and encouragement in that remote section of the country. If these grantees, their descendants or assignees had fulfilled the conditions of the
grant, introduced and established tenants upon the seigniory, and thus occupied and improved the lands, they
would have been among these cherished inhabitants, and
their titles and possessions alike protected.
The purposes for which this grant was made, and the conditions annexed to it, are specifically stated upon its face. It
recites that Repentigny and De Bonne-entertaining the
purpose of establishing a seigniory - had cast their eyes
upon a place called the Saut St. Marie; that a settlement in
that place would be most useful for voyageurs from the

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. REPENTIGNY.

265

Opinion of the court.

neighboring ports and those from the western sea, who
could there find a safe retreat, and by proper precautions,
which the petitioners proposed to take, would destroy in
those parts the trade of Indians with the English ; and
(after the words of concession of six leagues in front on the
river at the Saut, and six in depth) it provides that the
grantees shall hold and possess the same by themselves, and
cause the same to be held and possessed by their tenants,
and cause all others to desert and give up the land, and "in
default thereof the present concession shall be and shall remain null." In the deed of confirmation, by the king, is
the following clause: "That they (the grantees) improve the
said concession, and use and occupy the same by their tenants. In default thereof the same shall be reunited to his
majesty's domain ;" and, in a subsequent clause: '' His majesty ordering that the said concession shall be subject to
the conditions above expressed, without any pretext that
they should not have been stipulated in the said concession."
There is a letter in the record from the Governor-General
of Canada, under date of October 5, 1771, to the government at Paris, giving the reasons for this concession. He
writes : " I had the honor to let you know (by a former letter) that in order to thwart the movements that the English
do not cease to make to seduce the Indian nations of the
North, I had sent Sr. Chevalier Repentigny to the Saut of
St. Marie, to make there an establishment at his own expense, and to build a palisade fbrt to stop the Indians of the
northern posts, who go to and from the English, to intercept
the commerce they carry on, and to stop and prevent the
talks, and also the presents which the English send these
nations to corrupt them and get them in their interests.
Moreover, I had in view in that establishment to secure a
retreat to the French voyageurs, especially those who trade
in the northern parts, and for the purpose to clear the lauds
which are proper for the production of Indian corn, and to
sustain thereby the victualling the people of the said post,
and even to the needs of the voyageurs."

266

UNITED STATES V.

REPENTIGNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

And in a letter, by the minister at Paris, to a high official
in Canada, he alludes to that of the governor above referred
to, and observes, "IIn one of my despatches last year to the
governor, I had intimated to him that I had approved the
construction of a fort at the Saut of St. Marie, and the project of cultivating the land there, and raising cattle. We
cannot but approve the dispositions which have been made
for the execution of that establishment, but it must 1e considered that the cultivation.of the lands, and the multiplication of cattle must be the principal object, and that trade
must be only accessory. As it can hardly be expected, he
observes, that any other grain than corn will grow there, it
is necessary, at least for a while, to stick to it, and not to
persevere stubbornly in trying to raise wheat."
The purposes and conditions of the grant are too obvious
to reqiiire further comment.
It is admitted by the learned and intelligent jurists of
Chnada, who have been examined as witnesses in this ease,
that the legal liabilities to seignioral reunion to the royal
domain exists in cases of the non-fulfilment of the conditions
of settlement, and which is rigorously enforced if there be
no cleared lands and no settlers on the seigniory. That the
right to resume the grant applies only to unimproved seigniories, to all those that have been neglected, as it respects
the establishment of tenants upon the lands, and the consequent absence of cultivation, such as clearing the forests, converting them into fruitful fields, laying out and working
public roads, building mills for the convenience of the tenants, and the like.
We agree to this interpretation of the conditions. We
cannot, however, assent to the next position taken, namely,
that the possession and improvement of Repentigny, during
the four years that he occupied the seigniory at the Saut,
should be regarded as a fulfilment of this condition. It contained over two hundred thousand acres of land, and the.
whole of the improvements claimed in his behalf, besides the
stockade fort, consisted in the ere'ttion of three or four temporary huts for laborers, the clearing of a few acres of land

Dee. 1866.]

UNITED STATES 1. REPENTIGNY.

Opinion of the court.

around the fort, and planting, the same with Indian corn.
His stock eonsisted of seven head of cattle and two ho rses,
and, since 1754, over a century before the commencement
of this suit, there has been no possession or occupancy by

either of the grantees, or their descendants, tenants, or assigns, or further trace of improvements. The primeval forest remained unbroken till settlers entered upon it and established themselves under the protection of the laws, and
regulations in pursuanee thereof, of the United States.
It is argued, however, that according to the customs and
usages of France in respect to these eonditiong of settlement,
that no reunion to the royal domain could be asserted except by a judicial determination; that the king was disabled
by his own ordinanees from decreeing a reunion. We think,
upon the proofs in the record, this may well be doubted, in
the ease of such prolonged neglect to conform to the conditions of settlement, as in the instance before us. It furnishes
cogent, if not, irresistible evidence of the abandonment of
the duties and obligations arising out of the conditions of
the grant, and consequently of the grant ibself; and invites
a direct resumption by the sovereign, the lord paramount.
Assuming -De Bonne's title to have been valid under the
treaty of 1794, thirty-one years elapsed before this government had any notice of its existence, and in the meantime
neither De Bonne nor those claiming under him had taken
any steps in fulfilment of the conditions. They could at
least have applied to the government for the privilege of
fulfilling the conditions, or to obtain a remission of them.
But we do not intend to put this branch of the ease on this
ground. The United States succeeded to all the rights to
this territory that existed in the King of Franee, under the

treaty of 1783, with Great Britain, at the close or the Revolution. The United States then became the lord paramount
of this seigniory, and were thereby invested with the power
to deal with the seigniorial estate, the same as the King of
Franee, had it continued under his dominion; and we agree
that before a forfeiture or reunion with the public domain
could take plaee, a judicial inquiry should be instituted, or,

268

CROXALL V.

SIIERERD.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

in the technical language of the common law, office found,
or its legal equivalent. A legislative act, directing the possession and appropriation of the land, is equivalent to office
found. The mode of asserting or of assuming the forfeited
grant, is subject to the legislative authority of the government. It may be after judicial investigation, or by taking
possession directly, under the authority of the government,
without the e prelilinary proceedings.* In the present instance we have seen the laws have been extended over this
tract, the lands surveyed, and put on sale, and confirmed
to the occupants or purchasers, and, in the meantime, an
opportunity given to all settlers and claimants to come in
before a board of commissioners and exhibit their claims.
This is a legislative equivalent for the reunion by office
found.
Upon the whole we are quite satisfied that, consistent with
the principles, in the light of which we are directed by the
act of Congress to examine into the validity of this title, the
complainants have failed to establish it. We have felt justifled in applying to the case these principles with reasonable
strictness and particularity, as it is nearly, if not wholly, destitute of merit.
Decree of the court below reversed, and ease remanded
with directions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

CROXALL V. SIIERERD.
1. As a general thing, any legal conveyance will have the same effect upon
an equitable estate that it would have upon the like estate at law; and
whatever is true at law of the latter is true in equity of the former. The
rule, in Shelley's case, applies alike to equitable and to legal estates; and
an equitable estate tail may be barred in the same manner as an estate
tail at law.
2. A use limited upon a use is not affected by the statute of uses. The stat-,
ute executes but the first use. In the conveyance by deed of bargain and
Fairfax v, Hunter, 7 Cranch, 603, 622, 631; Smith v. Maryland, 6 Id.
286

