Dec. 1866.]

THE VOLANT.

179

Statement of the case.
Air. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, for the captors; Mr.
Vfarvin contra, for the claimants.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The evidence is clear that the vessel and her outward cargo
were neutral property, destined to neutral consignees at Matamoras, and that the cargo had been actually delivered as consigned.
Some of the proof tended to show that a portion of this cargo
consisted of confederate uniform cloth; but there was none
showing destination to enemy territory or immediate enemy
use.

There was, therefore, nothing in the character of the vessel
or of the outward cargo which warrants condemnation.
At the time of capture, the bark had the whole or a great
part of her homeward cargo on board. It consisted of cotton
and a small quantity of copper. The captain had not signed
bills of lading, and, upon his preparatory examination, assigned
this circumstance as a reason for not being able to give the
names of the shippers at Matamoras or of the consignees at
Liverpool. The presumption, arising upon the facts proved, is
that it was Peutral property, which must be restored.
The position of the Science, when her cargo was put on board,
and when she was captured, is left in doubt by the depositions
of the master and mate; but the testimony of two officers of
the Virginia, read as further proof, is explicit that she was in
Texan waters,* and no excuse is offered for being there.
The principles just declared in the case of the Dashing Wave
require, therefore, the affirmation of both decrees of the District
Court.
AND THIS IS ORDERED.

The second case was that of
THi

VOLANT.

THE brig Volant had been captured, near the mouth of the
Rio Grande, on the 5th of November, 1863, by the United States
* See chart,

mutra, p. 173.-Rzp.

180

THE TERESITA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
steamer Granite City, and, with her cargo, was condemned, by
the decree of the District Court for the Eastern District of Lou.
.siana. The case came before this court upon the appeal of the
claimants.

Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney-General, for the United States;
_21r. _3farvin, contra,for the claimants.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The proof shows that the brig was the property of a neutral
merchant of the island of Jersey, fully documented as a British
merchantman, and regularly cleared from London to Alata.

moras.
The cargo was shipped by the charterers of the vessel for
neutral owners, and consigned to neutrals at Matamoras, but
bad not been discharged at the time of capture.
It consisted in part of bales of confederate uniform cloth, of
the saine mark and of corresponding numbers with like goods
found on the Science; but there is no proof of unlawful destination.
The brig, however, anchored in Texan waters, near the coast,
and remained there until captured.*
This circumstance alone did not warrant condemnation,
though, in connection with the character of the cargo, it justifled capture.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed; and a decree of restitution, on payment of costs and charges, must be
entered instead of it.
REVERSAL AND DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

THE TERESITA.
A neutral vessel, at anchor, completely laden with a neutral cargo, on
the neutral side of a river dividing neutral from hostile water, washing
a blockaded coast, was captured as being subject to just suspicion of
an intent to break the blockade.
2. The captain of the vessel (who was, however, absent at the time of cap* See chart, supra, p. 17.-Rir,

