Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. MACDONALD.

647

Statement of the case.

tained in both of them. It finds no warrant in the statute
The statute prescribes that the President shall license the
trade. The only function of the Secretary was to establish
the riles by which it slould be regulated, when thus permitted. The order of General Banks is not produced. If
it were as comprehensive as the special agent assumed it to
be, it covered shipments to New Orleans frorn Wilmingtoni,
Charleston, and all other points in the rebel States. It embraced merchandise, coming alike from places within, and
places beyond his military lines. With respect to the latter
it was clearly void. The President only could gratnt such,,a
license. Mobile was then in possession of the eecmy. The
vessel and cargo bore the stamp of the enemy property.
The paper relied upon was a nullity, and gave them no protection. They were as much liable to capture and condemnation as any other vessel or cargo, leavin~g a blockaded port
and coming within reach of a blockading vessel.
The decree below was rightly rendered, and it is
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice GRIER:
I do not concur in this judgment. The vessel went out
of Mobile by permission of the commander of the blockade
there. To condemn such property would be a violation of
good faith. No English court has ever condemned under
such circumstances.

UNITED STATES V.

MACDONALD.

A collector of customs is entitled to retain, under the fifth section of the act
of March 3d, 1841 (5 Stat. at Large, 432), a sum not exceeding $2000

per annum from his receipts, as storage for the custody and safe-keeping of imported merchandise entered for warehousing and stored in
bonded warehouses.

THE fifth section of the act of March 3d, 1841, enacts that
in addition to the account required to be rendered by every

648

UNITED STATES V.

MACDONALD.

[S up. Ct.

Statement of the case.

collector, every collector shall render a quarter-yearly ac.
count to the Secretary of the Treasury, of all sums of money
received or collected"For rent and storage of goods, wares, or merchandise which may
be stored in the public storehouses, and for which a rent is paid beyond the rents paid by the collector; and if from such accounting
it shall appear that the money so received in any one year by
any collector, on account and for rents and storage as aforesaid,
shall in the aggregate exceed the sum of two thousand dollars,
such excess shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States,
as part and parcel of the public money; and no such collector
shall, on any pretence whatever, hereafter receive, hold, or retain for himself, in the aggregate, more than six thousand dollars per year, including all commissions for duties, and all fees
for storage, or fees or emoluments, or any other commissions or
salaries which are now allowed and limited by law."
With this act in force, the United States brought suit in
the Circuit Court for the district of Maine, on his official
bond, against Macdonald, collector of customs at Portland,
and his sureties, for the recovery of $6281 reported to be
due the United States on the adjustment of his accounts,
and which he had refused to pay into the treasury. The
rejoinder alleged that Macdonald received, accounted for
quarter-yearly, and retained this sum, "by virtue of his
office, for storage of merchandise in bonded warehouses from
January 20th, 1858, to April 18th, 1861, inclusive, as he
lawfully might do," not more than two thousand dollars in
any one year. The United States demurred, and issue was
joiiied.
The question raised by the pleadings was touching the
true construction and effect of the above-quoted fifth section
of the act of March 3d, 1841; that is to say, whether, under
it, a collector of customs might retain, as compensation or
emolument, any portion of the moneys which had accrued
from the storing or custody of imported merchandise in private bonded warehouses?
The court below considered the rejoinder good, and gave

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. MACDONALD.

649

Opinion of the court.

judgment for the defendants. The case was now here on
error to that judgment: the question here being the same
as it was below, the true meaning of the section.
Mr. Stanbery, A. G., and Mr. Ashton, Assistant A, G., for
the United States, plaintiff in error; Mr. W. P. Fessendyn for the
collector, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Principal question presented for decision in this case is,
whether a collector of the customs is entitled to retain as
compensation a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars per
annum from his receipts as storage for the custody and safekeeping of imported merchandise, entered for warehousing,
under the acts of Congress upon that subject, and stored in
bonded warehouses. First-named defendant was the collector of customs for the district of Portland and Falmouth,
and the other defendants were his sureties. He was appointed collector prior to the twentieth day of January, 1858,
and between that day and the eighteenth day of April, 1861,
he received as storage for the custody and safe-keeping of
imported merchandise, subject to duty and stored in bonded
warehouses, the sum of six thousand two hundred and
eighty-one dollars, as appears by the pleadings. Due returns were made by the collector, but he refused to pay
,over the moneys so received, and the plaintiffs sued him
and his sureties, declaring on his official bond.
Defendants craved oyer of the bond, and pleaded performance. Replication of the plaintifif alleged that the statement
of the collector's accounts, as adjusted and settled at the
Treasury Department, showed that he had received that
amount of the moneys of the plaintiffs, and that he had neglected and refused to pay the same into the treasury. Rejoinder of the defendants alleged that the sum specified in
the replication of the plaintiffs accrued and was received,
accounted for quarter-yearly, and retained by the collector
in virtue of his office for storage of merchandise in bonded

"UNITED STATES V.

MACD NALD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

warehouses, from the twentieth day of January, 1858, to the
sixteenth day of April, 1861, inclusive, but not more than
two thousand dollars in any one year, as he lawfully might
do. Plaintiffs demurred, and the defendants joined in denurrer. Parties were heard, and the Circuit Court over
ruled the demurrer and rendered judgment for the defendants, and the plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
I. 1. All controversy as to the material facts of the case,
so far as they are set forth and well pleaded in the rejoinder
of the defendants, is closed. Applying that well-known rule
to the case, it follows that the demurrer admits that the
whole amount retained by the collector, as alleged in the
replication, accrued and was received by that officer in virtue
of his office as storage of imported merchandise in bonded
warehouses, and that he never received from that source
during the period embraced in this controversy more than
two thousand dollars in any one year. Views of the defendants are that the collector had a right, under the fifth section
of the act of the third of March, 1841, as construed by this
court, to retain to his own use all sums received from storage, not exceeding two thousand dollars in any one year, as
compensation for his services.* By the fifth section of that
act collectors are directed to render a quarter-yearly account,
in addition to the account previously required by law, and to include in it all sums collected for fines, penalties, and forfeitures, or from seizures of merchandise, or on account of suits
for frauds against the revenue, or for rent and storage in
the public storehouses, for which a rent is paid beyond the
rents paid by the collector.
2. Construction of that section, as given by this court, was
that collectors must include all sums received for rent and
storage in the public stoiles beyond the rents which they
paid, in their quarterly accounts, and if it appeared from
such accounting that the aggregate sums so received in any
one year exceeded two thousand dollars, they must pay the,
excess into the treasury, as part and parcel of the public
6 Stat. at Large, 432.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. MACDONALD.

651

Opinion of the court.

money. Such excess, under that law as construed, belongs
to the treasury, but if the sums received from that source in
any one year did not exceed two thousand dollars, the court
held that collectors might retain the whole amount to their
own use, as additional compensation for their services.*
3. Sources of their compensation prior to that time were
certain fees or emoluments, conlmissiohs and allowances, to
which was added a prescribed sum, called salary, which was
much less than the compensation to which such officers were
at all times entitled. They were also entitled to certain proportions of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, but were never
before obliged to embrace such receipts iii their quarterly
accounts.
Statement of the court in that case was, and it was undoubtedly correct, that the bill, as originally reported, not
only required that the sums so received should be included
in the quarterly accounts of collectors; but if the aggregate
from all those sources, including fines, penalties, and forfeitures, exceeded two thousand dollars in any one year, collectors were required to pay the excess into the treasury.
Radical amendments, however, were made in the bill during its passage, essentially changing its character in that respect. Fines, penalties, and forfeitures, as it passed into a
law, are not required to be included in the aggregate of the
accounts from which to deduct the two thousand dollars, in
order to ascertain the excess to be paid into the treasury;
and, inasmuch as fees and emoluments were previously required to be included in the quarterly accounts of collectors
as the principal source of their compensation, under such
previous laws, the court held, and well held, that there was
nothing left for that part of the section which directed the
payment of the excess into the treasury to operate upon, except the sums received from rent and storage. Conclusion
of the court, therefore, was, and it was a unanimous conclusion, that coliectors might, if the office earned so much,
retain to- their own use, as an addition to the compensation
United States v. Walker, 22 Howard, 299.

UNITED STATES V. MACDONALD.

[SLIP.

Ct,

Opinion of tha court.

allowed to them by previous laws, the sum of two thousand
dollars per annum for rent and storage, but that all excess
beyond that sum must be paid into the treasury as public
money.
II. 1. None of these principles are controverted by the
plaintiff , nor do they contend that the fifth section of that
act has been repealed. Storehouses used for the storing of
imported merchandise were such, at that date, as were
owned by the United States, and such as were leased by the
collectors under the direction of the Treasury Department.
Imported merchandise might, in certain cases, be stored for
a limited time without the payment of duties, unless sooner
withdrawn for consumption. Where the entry of nerehandise was incomplete, the fifty-second section of the act of the
28th of February, 1799, required that the importation should
be conveyed to some warehouse or storehouse to be designated by the collector, there to remain, with due and reasonable carc, at the expense and risk of the owner or consignee,
under the care of some proper officer, until the invoice was
exhibited and the value was ascertained by appraisement.
2. Goods damaged during the voyage were also required
to be deposited in some warehouse or storehouse to be designated by the collector, in the same manner and subject to
the same condtions as where the entry of the goods was incomplete, to be kept until the extent of the damage could be
ascertained in the same way.*
3. Persons importing teas also might pay or secure the
duties before a permit was granted for landing the same, on
the same terms as prescribed in respect to other imported
merchandise, or they might, at their option, give bond,
without security, to the, collector of the district for the payment of the duties in two years from the date of such bond;
but the teas so imported, in that event, are ,equired to be
deposited, at the expense and risk of the importer, in one or
more storehouses to be agreed upon between the importer,
and the revenue officer of the port.t
* 1 Sta

at Large,

52, p. 665.

t" Id.

62, p. 673.

Dec.

1866.]

UNITED STATES V. MACL. NALD.

653

Opinion of the court.

4. Wines and distilled spirits might also, under the act of
the 20th of April, 1818, be warehoused ' in such public or
other storehouses" as might be agreed upon between the
importer and surveyor, or other public officer of the revenue where the wines or other distilled spirits were landed.*
Whetber deposited in the public or " other storehouses,"
under either of those acts the goods imported were to be
kept inder the joint locks of the importer and inspector of
the revenue, and no delivery of the same could be made unless the duties were first paid or secured, nor without a permit, in writing, under the hand of' the collector and naval
officer of the port.t
-Custody and control were the same, whether merchandise
was deposited in the public or other storehouse; and, whether
in the one or the other, the expenses of safe-keeping we- e to
be paid by the importer, owner, or consignee. Importer and
the proper revenue officer might agree upon a store as the
place of deposit other than those few warehouses then owned
by the United States; but when the locks of the inspector
and of the importer were affixed to the doors of the same, as
required by law, and the merchandise as imported wa.s deposited therein, under the control of the collector, it became
a public storehouse for the purpose of securing the importatiouI until the duties should be paid or secured, and the same
should be withdrawn by authority of law.
5. Provision was also made in the sixth section of the act
of the 14th of July, 1832, that imported wool and the manufactures of wool might, .at the option of the importer, be
placed in the public stores, under bond, at the risk of the
importer, subject to the payment of the customary storage and
charges, and to the payment of interest at the rate of six
per cent. per annum while so stored.t
Effect of that law was to diminish the compensation of
collectors, s it made large additions to the free list ana to
increase the demand for storehouses for public use, as it authorized the warehousing of a large class of importations
never before entitled to those privileges.
*

Stat. at Large, 469.

t1

Id. 674; 3 Id. 469.

$ 4 Id. 691,

654

UNITED STATES V.

MACDONALD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Resort was had by Congress to additional compensation
acts, passed annually for the period of eight years, to remedy the first difficulty, and the second was overcome without legislation, by storing the merchandise, as imported, at
the expense and risk of the importer, instorehouses designated by the collector, or in such as were agreed upon between the importer and the revenue officer, or in stores
owned by private persons, and leased for that purpose by
the collector fbr limited periods, Commerce and trade revived, and the practice of leasing such storehouses at certain pofts became general, and "the c.ustomary storage"
collected from the importers at such offices greatly exceeded
the amount paid as rent to the owner of the stores; and, as
there was no law of Congress requiring collectors to account
for the excess, it was retained to their own use, and at some
ports swelled their receipts beyond the standard of a reasonable compensation.
III. 1. Such was the state of affairs in this behalf when
Congress passed the act of the 3d of March, 1841, to which
reference has already been made. Express provision of that
act was, that no collector shall, on any pretence whatsoever,
hereafter receive, bold, or retain for himself, in the aggregate, more than six thousand dollars per year, including all
commissions for duties and all fees for storage, or fees or
emoluments, or any other commissions or salaries which are
allowed and limited by law. Collectors wore required by
the second section of the act of the 2d of March, 1799, called
the Compensation Act, to keep accurate accounts of all fees
and official emoluments by them received, and to transmit
the same to the Comptroller of the Treasury; but they were
allowed to retain to their own use the whole amount of
emoluments derived from those sources.*
2. Maximum rate of compensation was first prescribed by
the act of the 30th of April, 1802, and the, provision was,
that whenever the annual emoluments of any collector,
after deducting the expenditures incident to the office, shall
* 1 Stat. at Large, 708.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES V.

655

MACDONALD.

Opinion of the court.

amount to mor'e than five thousand dollars, he shall account
for the surplus, and pay the same into the treasury.*
Districts for the collection of the customs were, by the act
of the 7th of May, 1822, divided into two classes, usually
denominated the enumerated and the non-enumerated ports,
and the maximum rate of compensation.to collectors was diminished. Emoluments of collectors for the seven enumerated ports might reach, under the provisions of that act, the
sum of four thousand dollars, but could not exceed that
amount under anly circumstances.
Annual compensation allowed to the collectors of the nonenumerated ports, of which Portland was one, might amount
to three thousand dollars; and the provision in respect to
both classes was, that the excess, after deducting the expenses incident to the office, should be paid into the treasury as public money.t
3. The contest in Walker's case was, whether or not he
was entitled, as the collector of a non-enumerated port, to
an annual compensation of six thousand dollars. He claimed
that he was, because, as he insisted, the maximum rate of
conpensation to the collectors of those ports, as prescribed
by the act of the 7th of May, 1822, was repealed, and, consequently, that he was entitled to four thousand dollars un.
der the ninth section of that act, and two thousand dollars
from the receipts of his office for storage, as allowed by the
fifth section of the act under consideration. But this court
held, that the maximum rate prescribed in the prior law allowed to the collectors of the non-enumerated ports was not
repealed, but was in full force as to all the emoluments of
collectors prescribed or recognized in that act. '
Unanimous conclusion of the court, therefore, was that collectors of the non-enumerated ports might receive, as the annual compensation for their services, the sum of three thousand dollars, from the sources of emoluments prescribed and
recognized in that act; and, in addition thereto, might retain whatever sums came to their hands within the year from
* 2 Stat. at Large, 172.

t 3 Id. 693.

UNITED STATES V. MACDONALD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rent and storage, provided the storage did not exceed two
thousand dollars. Plaihtiffs concede that such was the decision of this court in that case, and they do not deny that
it was correct; but they contend that it does not control the
present case, because, as they insist, the storage received in
that case was storage in stores leased to the government, for
which rents were paid beyond the rent paid by the collector.
4. Amount retained by the collector in this case accru.ed
and was received for storage of imported merchandise in
bonded warehouses; and the plaintiffs contend that bonded
warehouses are not public storehouses within the meaning
of that act. They are mistaken, however, in supposing
that the amount retained by the collector in that case was
wholly received for storage of goods stored in the publie storehouses, for which rents were received beyond the
rent paid by the collector. On the contrary, the bond of the
collector in that suit was dated the seventh day of September, 1850, more than four years after the act of the sixth
of August, 1846, establishing the warehouse system, was
passed.
Date of the writ in that case was the twenty-first day of
November, 1856, more than seven years after the treasury
regulations of the seventeenth of February, 1849, making
provision for bonded warehouses, were adopted and promulgated.
IV. 1. Importations of every kind might be entered for
wa-rehousing under the first section of the act establishing
the warehouse system, and when so entered the requirement was that the goods " shall be taken possession of by
the collector-," and be deposited in "the public stores or
other stores," to be agreed on by the collector and the importer, owner, or consignee. Public stores, as well as the
"other stores," are required to be under the joint locks of
the importer and the proper revenue officer, as provided in
the act respecting the deposit of wines and distilled spirits,
and the " other stores," as well as the public stores, so called,
are expressly recognized in the same section as public storehouses, because it is there provided that if the goods so de-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES

V.

MACDONALD.

657

Opinion of the court.

posited shall remain "IN PUBLIC STORE beyond one year, without payment of the duties and charges thereon, then the
goods" shall be appraised and sold by the collector at public auction.*
Such goods are not only required to go into the possession
of the collector, and be thus deposited under his control, but
they are also required to be kept by him in the place of deposit, at the charge and risk of the importer, owner, or consignee. Every provision of the section assumes that the
goods, whether deposited in the public stores or the other
stores therein mentioned, are in the possession and under
the control of the collector, and they cannot be withdrawn
for consumption without paying the duties, nor for transportation or exportation without paying the appropriate expenses.
2. Authority to make rules and regulations was conferred
upon the Secretary of the Treasury by the fifth section of
that act. Pursuant to that authority, he promulgated the
regulations of the seventeenth of February, 1849, and from
that time it was the policy of the department to discontinue
leased stores as far as possible, and substitute bonded warehouses in their place. Bonded warehouses, under those
regulations, were divided into'three classes:
First. Public stores and stores leased by the department
prior to the date of' the regulations.
Second. $tores in the possession and sole occupancy of the
importer, and placed under a customs lock and that of the
importer, to be used only for the purpose of storing his own
importations. Such importers furnished their own stores,
and, of course, paid no rent, but they were required, as importers, to pay a sum equivalent to the salary of an inspector,
or half-storage to the collector.
Third Stores in the occupation of persons desirous of engaging in the business of storing dutiable merchandise Importers storing goods in such stores paid rent to the owner,
but they also were required to pay a sum equivalent to the
* 9 Stat. at Large, 53.
voL. v.

42

658

UNI TED STATES V. MACDONALD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

salary of an inspector, or half-storage to the collector, as in
the other class of stores.
Both of those classes are called private bonded warehouses,
because they were the property of their owners, and were
not formally leased to the United States; but no store could
be constituted such a warehouse unless it was a first-class
fire-proof store, according to the classification of insurance
offices, ar. was first proved to be such to the satisfaction of
the Secretary of the Treasury, and was by him authorized to
be used for the storage of dutiable merchandise. Until so
selected by the" Secretary of the Treasury, and the bond
given by the owner as required, no store of a private owner
could be used for the storing of dutiable importations; and
when so selected and bonded, and placed under, the customs
locks, the store was under the control of the collector, and
was as much a public storehouse as one owned or formally
leased by the United States.*
3. Same regulations provide that all moneys received by
collectors from owners or occupants of private bonded
stores in paymentjor haif-storaye, or for the attendance of an
inspector at the premises, will be accounted for as receipts
for slorage in their accounts with the department. Evidence
is not wanting to show that the department has constantly
recognized the subsisting operation of the provision under
consideration in relation to storage. Throughout the period
since its passage the department has required collectors to
include the sums received from storage in their quarterly
accounts, and if the provision is in force for that purpose, it
is difficult to see why it is not also in force as authorizing
the allowance to collectors.
Express recognition of its subsisting operation is also found
in one of the adjudications of the department, in which it
was decided that where "goods are stored under bond in a
private store the importer shall either make monthly payment of a sum equivalent to the pay of an inspector placed
in charge of the same, or one-half the amount which would
Clark v. Peaslee, Massachusetts District, October Term, 1862.
Cir. and De- . by Ogden, p. 118.

Treas,

Dec. 1,66.]

UNITED STATES

V.

MACDONALD.

659

Opinion of the court.

accrue as sfloraye on the goods so stored if placed in public
store."*
Implied recognition of the rule, as here laid down, is found
in the daily transactions of the department with the collectors of the seven enumerated ports. They are not only
reqnired to return all sums received as storage, but they are
allowed six thousand dollars per annum as compensation for
their services, which is exactly two thousand dollars beyond
what they are entitled to receive, unless the latter sum can
properly be allowed from the amount which annually accrues, and is collected and returned by them as storage.
4. Direct decision of this court in the case of Walker as
that they were not entitled to but four thousand dollars
under previous laws, and there has been no legislation upon
the subject since that time, except that thme fortieth section
of the act of the eighteenth of July, 1866, provided that all
moneys received by collectors for the custody of goods, wares,
and merchandise in bonded warehouses, shall be accounted
for as storage, under the provisions of the act which is the
foundation of the collector's claim in this case.
Sums received for storage not exceeding two thousand
dollars in any one year, if duly included in their quarterly
accounts, are as much due to the collectors of the non-enumnerated ports as to the incumbents of the larger offices, and
their right to the same rests on the same foundation. Purpose of the act establishing the warehouse system, and of
the regulations which followed that enactment, was to discontinue leased stores, and to substitute bonded warehouses
in their place, and the leases of such stores were accordingly
required to be cancelled, by the subsequent act extending
the system, at the shortest period of their termination, and
the making of new leases was expressly forbidden at ports
where there were private bonded warehouses.t5. Necessity has always existed, since the Treasury Department was established, for more storehouses for the deposit and safe-keeping of imported merchandise than the
Cir. No. 4, 1857.

t 10 Stitt. at Large, 272.

660

iRAILROAD

CO. V.

SOUTTER AND

KNAPP.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

government owned, and it cannot be doubted that all such
as have been placed under the control of the collectors, and
put under the customs locks, and used for that purpose in
conformity to law and the regulations of the Treasury Departnent, were, during the period they were so controlled,
used, and occupied, public storehouses within the meaning
of the provision requiring collectors to include receipts for
storage in their quarterly accounts, and allowing them to
retain out of the same a sum not exceeding two thousand
dollars in any one year.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD CO. V. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.
The act of confirming or setting aside a sale made by a commissioner in
chancery, involving, as it often does, the exercise of a very delicate
judgment and discretion, cannot be regarded as a mere control of the
ministerial duties of an officer in the execution of final process.
flence, under the case of Bronson v. La Crosse Railroad Co. (1 Wallace,
4)5), here approved, such an act belonged, under the Congressional
statutes of July 15th, 1862, and 3d March, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 576
and 807), to the Circuit Cotvrt of Wisconsin, and not to the District
Court, even though the sale was made under a decree of foreclosure in
the last-named court, rendered beore the act of July 15th, 1862, and

when, therefore, the District Court was possessed of full Circuit-Court
powers.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the district of Wisconsin.
This was an appeal by the Milwaukee and Minnesota
Railroad Company Irom an order of court confirming a sale
made by the, marshal under a decree of foreclosure of a
mortgage on the western division of the La Crosse and Mitwaukee Railroad.
The facts out of which the appeal grew were these: The
original decree of foreclosure was rendered by the District
Court of Wisconsin, then possessing full Circuit-Court powers, on tLe 13th of January, 1862; and on the 2d of October,
1862, the marshal made a sale under that decree. In the
meantimee, to wit, on the 15th July; 1862, Congress, by an

