194

CAMPBELL V. CITY or KENOSHA.

[Sur. Ct.

Syllabus.

Direct decision of this court in the case of Smilh v. Tra..
budes Ieirs,* was that such an order was no more than the
action of a court on its own process which is submitted to
its own discretion, and that it was not a final judgment in a
civil action nor a decree in a court of equity.
Where a case is brought into this court from the Circuit
Courts by a writ of error, regular in form, if there is no error
in the record the judgment will be affirmed. Affirmance
in such a ease is the proper judgment, because the writ of
error, being addressed to the record, brings up the whole
case, and the court, under the twenty-second section of the
Judiciary Act, has juyisdiction to re-examine the record in
such cases and to reverse or affirm; and if there is no error
in the record, of course the judgment must be affirmcd.t
Present case, however, does not fall within that rule, because the writ of error is special in form and is addressed to
a mere order of the court, passed nearly six years after the
final judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed, the writ
of possession issued, and the possession of the premises
given to the plaintiff, as commanded by the writ.
The case is
DISMISSED FOR THE WANT OF JURISDICTION.

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KE.NOSHA.

1. Where the legislature of a State passes two acts, one (which by the constitution it had the power to pass) authorizing a city to subscribe a
linited amount ($150,000) of stock to a railroad, another (which, by
the constitution, it had no power to pass) authorizing it to subscribe an
unlimited amount, and the city, professing to act under the one which
authorized the unlimited amount, subscribes the limited amount

($150,000), a subsequent recognition by the legislature of the subscription as legal, validates the subscription.
2. The legislative recognition may be made by implication.
8. A statute which, in the case of such an issue, creates as part of the municipal government an officer whose duty it is to attend to the city's in*9 :Peters, 7.

t" Taylor v. Korton, 2 Black, 484.

9cc. 1866.]

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KENOSHA.

195

Statement of the case.

terests and concerns, in regard to the railroad subscribed to, and who,
the act declares, "shall redeem all scrip which has been issued for it,',
constitutes a ratification of the originally irregular issue.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin;
the case being this:
The constitution of Wisconsin ordains:
It shall be the duty of the legislature, and they are hereby
empowered, to provide for the organization of cities and incorporated villages, and to restrict theirpower of taxation, assessment,
borrowing money, contracting debts, and loaning their credit, so as to
prevent abuses in assessments and taxation,and in contractingdebts
by such municipal corporations."
With this'provision in force, the legislature of the State,
on the 22d March, 1853, authorized the city of Kenosha "to.
issue the corporate bonds of the said city to the Kenosha &
Beloit Railroad Company for the payment of a sum not exceeding $150,000." It was provided, however, that no bonds
should be issued under this act unless a majority of the legal
voters voted in favor of it.
By section 8 of an act passed the next day, "An act to
amend the charter of the city ofKenosha,"-approved March
23d, 1853, the legislature enacted as follows:
"The city council shall have power to levy and collect special
taxes for any purpose (aside from what may be specially provided
for in the city charter) which may be considered essential to promote or secure the common interest of the city ; or may borrow on the
corporate credit of the city for such purposes, any sum of money for
any term of time, at any rate of interest not exceeding ten per centum,
and payable at any place that may be deemed expedient."
This act also provided that no tax should be levied or
money borrowed, unless in accordance with a certain seetion-" section 44 of '_An act to incorporate the city of
Kenosha,'" (the original city charter),-a section which, like
one in the first-named act, provided for a submission of the
matter to a vote of the people; when the amount and object

CAM1,BELL V. CITY OF KENOSIA.

[Sup. ( .

Statement of the case.

of the proposed tax or loan to be voted upon should be specifically stated.
In this state of statutory enactments, the city, in August,
1855, passed an ordinance:
"That under and in accordancewith section 8 of 'An act to amend
the charter of the city of Kenosha,' approved March 23d, 1853, and
section 44 of the ' Act to incorporate the city of Kenosha,' a question
shall be submitted to the legal voters whether a tax to the
amount of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars shall be levied
and collected for the promotion.of the common interest of the
city in aid of the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad."
The question of the tax and loan was thus submitted,
the reader will observe, under the act of March 23d, amendatory of the charter, and not under that of March 22d; authorizing a subscription for a specific sum, $150,000.
A majority of the voters having v~ted for the subcription, under the ordinance just quoted, the city issued scrip,
in the form of small drafts, by the mayor and clerk, on the
city treasurer, for different sums of money payable "out of
any funds in the treasury belonging to the city, the same
having been allowed for scrip in aid of the Kenosha and Beloit
Railroad Company."
In 1857, the next year after the city had thus subscribed
for stock and issued its scrip, and so become a stockholder
in the new railroad, the legislature passed an act giving a
revised charter to the city, which it accepted. This new
charter provided that a railroad commissioner should be annually elected thereafter as a city officer, and, prescribing
his duties, proceeded:
"He shall have, generally, the charge and control of all interest the city of Kenosha now has, or may hereafter have, in the
Kenosha and Beloit Railroad. He shall receive all funds paid
into the hands of the city treasurer, on account of the tax for
the benefit of the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad Company, and
shall hereafter redeem all scrip which has been issued to said railroad
company, as the same becomes due, making such provision therefor,

Dec. 1866.]

CAMPBELL V.

CITY OF KENOStIA.

197

Argument against the liability.

or recommending such measures to the common council as he may
deem necessaryfor the benefit of the tax-payers of the city."
The scrip issued as above-mentioned was not paid at its
maturity, and, in 1859, the city councils of Kenosha made
arrangements by which the city obtained from the holders
of it an enlarger-ent of the time of payment. Being at the
effiux of the enlarged term still unpaid, one Campbell, who
held a quantity of it, brought suit in the Circuit Court for
Missouri against tle city.
On the trial the holder of the scrip offered the same in
evidence. The city objected to its reception on the ground
that section 8 of the act to amend the charter of the city
of Kenosha, approved March 23d, 1853, and also the ordinance and other proceedings under it, were void, as being
in contravention of the constitution of the State of Wisconsin. And that the scrip had not been validated either by the
subsequent act of 1857, making it the duty of the railroad
commissioner to redeem the scrip, nor,. by the proceeding
of the city council in 1859, procuring an enlargement of the
time; inasmuch as it was not in the power of either the city
council or of the legislature itself, to give validity to that
which was, by the constitution, void.
The court sustained the objection, and judgment was given
for the city.
3M-r. Cary, for the city and in support of the judgment:
It will be conceded that under no act of legislature in this
case, could the bonds be valid without a previous submission
of the question of their issue to the people, and an approval
of such issue by them. Now the only question of this sort
submitted to them was "under and in accordance with section 8 of an act to amend the city of Kenosha, &c., approved
March 23d, 1853."
This act, therefore, of March 22d, 1853, authorizing the
city to subscribe to "a sum not exceeding $150,000," has no
reference to the matter in dispute, and is out of the case.
That section 8 of the act of March 23d, is a violation of

198

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF ]KENOSIA.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the liability.

the provision of the constitution which says, that it shall be
the ditty of the legislature to restrict the power of cities to
contract debts, so as to prevent abuses in that matter by them,
is clear. It looks as if it were made in studied defiance of
the constitution. Over and above what the charter authorizes, cities, under the act, may borrow any sum for any time,
payable anywhere, and pretty much at any rate of interest.
As an original proposition, it would be the duty of this
court to hold this section unconstitutional and void.
But the question is not an open one in this court. It has
a]ready been passed upon by the Supreme Court of the State
of Wisconsin.
In Foster v. The 0ity of Kenosha,* a party sought to enjoin
the city of Kenosha from collecting a certain tax levied upon
real estate in the said city, fbr the purpose of paying this
identical scrip and the remainder of the same issue, and an
injunction was obtained, restraining its collection. On ap
peal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was
affirmed, on the ground that the section was in conflict with
the constitution of Wisconsin and void.
We need not say that the construction given to a statute
of a State by the highest judicial tribunal of such State is
regarded as a part of the statute, and is binding upon the
courts of the United States. This is settled law.t
The issue of the scrip then was not the case of a power
granted by the legislature, and defectively or improperly
executed, but was a void act, an act void in tolo; void in its
inception, execution, and result.
If this is so, certainly no ratification of it by the city council would make it valid. The council could give no more
validity to the scrip by ratifying it than they did by issuing
it. What they meant and wished was plain by the latter act;
but their meanings and wishes are of no importance, the
constitution intervening.
But could they ratify the scrip even had the legislature at.
tempted to confer upon them the power? Could they, by
*12

Wisconsin, 616.

I See Christy v. Pridgeon, 4 Wallace, 197.

Dec. 1866.]

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KENOSHA.

199

Opinion of the court.

mere ratification, make valid what was before void in toto
and of no binding force whatever ?* Did mere change of
the scrip change its character in respect to obligation ? Void
in its inception, would not nullity follow all its mutations?
But did the legislature ever ratify or direct the councils
to ratify the debt? The act of the legislature i roviding for
the election of a railroad commissioner certainly does not
ratify the debt expressly.
And in regard to a debt which, by the constitution, was
forbidden to be contracted, and was void in toto, how can a
ratification be implied merely ?
The meaning of the act was, that the commissioner "shall
pay it ;" assuming it, of course, to be valid ; issued according to law, held by honest holders, and having the other requisites required by courts to give force to obligations: not
to say that lie "shall pay" all the drafts which, by being
signed, were '' scrip," constitutional or u.nconstitutional,
legal or illegal, honestly held or dishonestly held. Such a
construction would be very forced.
The provision of the constitution is in restraint of municipal corporations embarking in wild schemes of adventure
under the ficy of improvements, and is a wise one. It has
become a necessary protection to holders of property and
payers of taxes. It ought not to be made nugatory by judicial legislation.
The judgment should therefore be affirmed.
Mr. Lynde, contra, jbr the creditor.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The species of securities on which this suit is brought
has been. frequently before this court for consideration,
and there are very few questions connected with them that
have not been decided. This action involves the validity of
the bonds or scrip issued by the defendant in aid of the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad Company. In Wisconsin there is
nothing in the organic law restraining the legislature from
Toun of Rochester v. Alfred Bank, 13 Wisconsin, 432.

200

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KENOSIIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

conferring on in un icipal corporations the power to subscribe
for stock in a railroad or other work of public improvement;
and the highest court of the State has sustained the validity
of securities given for such purposes by towns and cities
benefited by their construction, where the power to do so
had been granted by the General Assembly.*
But it is insisted the bonds in controversy were executed
and issued without the authority of law previously conferred, and therefore the city of Kenosha must be relieved
from their payment.
The question presented is an important one; but, in our
opinion, easily solved, when the whole legislation on the
On the 22d day of
subject is taken into consideration.
March, 1853, an act of the legislature was passed authorizing the city, if a majority of the people voted for it, to issue
its corporate bonds, not exceeding $150,000, to aid in the
construction of the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad, and to levy
taxes to pay for them ; and provision was made that the railroad company should secure the city, by a lien on its property, when the bonds were executed and delivered to them.
This law conferred full power on the city to contract an indebtedness (limited in amount) for the promotion of a work
of internal improvement, of common benefit to all its inhabitants. A majority of the people did vote to extend the required aid, and the city issued its obligations and delivered
them to the company, taking in exchange certificates of stock
and indemnity against loss. All parties rested in the belief
that these proceedings were according to law, and the seeu-,
rities were negotiated in good faith, and the city received the
benefit of them. So far as the corporate authorities could
ratify them, they have done it, by a series of unmistakable
acts: by voting to levy taxes; redeeming a portion of the
securities first issued, and exchanging the residue for new
ones; issuing scrip in settlement of unpaid interest, and
selling the securities obtained from the company by way of,
indemnity.
* Clark v. City of Janesville, 10 Wisconsin, 186; Bushnell v. City of Bo

loit, Id. 195.

L)ec. 1866.]

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KENOSHA.

Opinion of the court.

The city also, in pursuance of an express act of the legislature, evidently passed to protect the very interests created
by the subscription to the capital stock of the road, elected
a commissioner to represent it in the meeting of the board
of directors, vote its shares of stock, and exercise a general
oversight over its affairs iii connection with the road.
But it is insisted, that the holders of these bonds or scrip
(which is the form the securities assumed) cannot recover,
because the common council, in submitting to the legal
voters the question of whether a tax of $150,000 should be
levied and collected to aid the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad,
declared, by ordinance, that the question was submitted in
accordance with the provisions of section eight of " an act
to amend the charter of the city," approved March 23, 1853,
and section forty-four of " an act to incorporate the city,"
approved February 8, 1850. It is unnecessary to notice the
latter-named section, as the consideration of the first one is
alone material to the subject of this inquiry.
Section eight of the amended charter authorizes the city
council of Kenosha to levy and collect special taxes to any
amount, and for any purpose, which may be considered essential to promote or secure the common interest of the
city; and it is contended that it is in conflict with the third
section of -the eleventh article of the Wisconsin constitution, and that the proceedings of the common council under
it cannot be sustained. The Wisconsin constitution provides that the legislature, in organizing municipal corporations, shall restrict their power to tax, assess, borrow money,
contract debts, and loan their credit. The provision was a
wise one, and has undoubtedly tended to prevent abuses on
the part of incorp'orated cities and villages, in levying taxes
and raising money.
The Supreme Court of the State, in the interpretation of
the foregoing provision of the constitution,* has declared
that the legislature could not confer on a municipal corporation unlimited power to levy taxes and raise money, beyond
* Toster v. City of Kenosha, 12 Wisconsin, 616.

202

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KENOSIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

what was proper for purely municipal purposes; and as this
wvas attempted to be done in section eight of the amended
charter of the city of Kenosha, that the taxes levied under
it, to aid the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad, were unauthorized, and the city authorities could be restrained from collecting them at the instance of a party interested. This is
the extent of the decision. The learned court expressl)
declined to decide whether the scrip issued by the common
council to aid the road was valid or not.
In fact, the whole decision is based on the unconstitutionality of section eight, above referred to, which, as it purported to confer upon the city unlimited powers to levy taxes
and borrow money, was in violation of the constitution of
the State. The court say that "the suit was by Foster in his
own blehalf, and in behalf of other land-owners, to restrain
the city of Kenosha from collecting a special tax of $18,625,
levied by the city upon the real estate therein situated, for
the purpose of paying a debt originally contracted by the
stock subscriptions of the city to the Kenosha and Beloit
Railroad Company." This is all that appears in the report
of the case as to the character of the suit. It is apparent
that the special aet of the legislature authorizing the subscription, and the further amendment to the charter of the
city substantially ratifying it, were not before the court.
They are not referred to in the opinion of the court, and the
fair presumption is, that they were not referred to in the
pleadings, as the purpose which the complainant had in view
did not require that they should' be. We are, therefore,
unembarrassed by any adverse decision upon the character
of the securities in suit, and the question of their validity is
an open one for discussion and decision.
It is manifest, that the common council of Kenosha did
not attempt the exercise of the unlimited power to raise
money conferred on them, because they limited the amount
to be raised to the exact sum, which the legihlatkire, by an
express act, authorized. Under the provisions of this act,
ample power was given to accomplish the object which the
city had in view-aiding to build a railroad which would

Dec. 1866.]

CAMPBELL V.

CITY OF KENOSHA.

203

Opinion of the court.

bring trade and travel to it. by the very terms of this act,
the subscription of $150,000 could be made, and taxes levied
to pay for it, if the people voted in favor of it. It is con.
ceded, if the submission had been in words under the special
act, instead of the amended charter, all controversy would
be at an end.
It is argued, notwithstanding there was complete authority to raise the money and levy the taxes under a valid law,
yet, as the common council, in taking the vote, named a
provision of their charter, which is invalid, that, therefore,
not only the paymelit of the tax can be avoided, but also the
payment of the scrip.
Whether this position is well taken or not the necessities
of the case do not require to be decided, for, in our opinion,
subsequent legislation has cured all antecedent irregularities.
In 1857, after the scrip had been issued to the railroad
company, under the proceedings of the common council, the
legislature passed a revised charter for the city. Among
other things, provision was made for the clection of a rail
road commissioner, annually, as a city officer. There had
been previous legislation in relation to this officer, but his
duties and powers by the revised charter were much enlarged.
Ie was constituted, ex-officio, a member of the
board of directors of the Kenosha and Beloit Railroad, with
power of voting as an individual stockholder, and, in addition, was required to receive from the city treasurer all
moneys which were paid on account of the tax for the road,
and commanded to redeem all scrip which had been issued
to the company as the same became due, making such provision for it, or recommending such measures to the common council as he should deem necessary fb' the benefit of
the tax-payers of the city.
This is not in terms a curative act, but it has that effect
by fair implication. It is not doubted the legislature could,
by a direct act of confirmation, legalize the issue of this
scrip, notwithstanding the submission of the question to the
vote of the people was under the wrong law. If by a direct

CAMPBELL V.

CITY OF KENOSHA.

ESup. C'

Oninion of the court.

act, equally in any other way, if the intention of the legislaturo to legalize, clearly appears.
It is conceded the legislature had the right to authorize
the city of Kenosha to take stock in a railroad, issue bonds
to pay for it, and provide for their redemption by the levy
and collection of a tax. It did authorize these things to be
done, if the people approved them; but as their sanction
was obtained in the wrong way, thereby involving the legality
of their proceedings, good faith and sound policy required,
at the hands of the legislature, a full legislative recognition
of the legality of the subscription and the issue of the scrip.
This was done by the provisions of the revised charter of
1857.
Of such importance did the legislature consider the interests of Kenosha in the railroad to Beloit that a commissioner, of the dignity of a city officer, was deemed necessary
to look to them. And that the legislature intended to ratify
the proceedings of the common council, which resulted in
the subscription of stock to the railroad and issue of scrip,
is very clear, else why was the commissioner directed to
provide for the payment of the scrip as it matured ? The
words of the law are imperative. The commissioner shall
redeem the scrip. Surely the legislature would not command this to be done unless it intended to recognize the
validity of the scrip.
"To redeem all scrip which had been issued to said railroad company as the same became due "-the very words
of the law-can mean nothing else than that such issue of
scrip had received legislative sanction, and, in the opinion
of the law-makers, ought to be paid.
If this is so, the ratification of the disputed proceedings
of the common council is as complete as if they had been
particularly named, and their issue of scrip is relieved from
all taint of illegality.
After the revised charter was given to the city, the common council, at different times, and in various ways, recognized the validity of the scrip, and finally, in June, 1859,
settled with some of the holders of it, who were willing to

Dec. 1866.]

MYERS v. FENN.
Statement of the case.

extend the time for payment-taking up the old securities
and issuing new.
This suit is brought upon the scrip received on that set.
tlement, and we think the learned court below erred in
excluding it from the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed with costs,
and the cause is remanded to the court below, with instructions to issue
A VENIRE DE NOVO.

MYERS v. FEmN.
The practice of permitting judgment creditors to come in and make themselves parties to a creditor's bill, and so obtain the benefit, assuming at
the same time their portion of the costs and expenses of the litigation,
is well settled. And a proceeding of this sort will not be reversed because the party so coming in has not obtained an order of court to
come on; the want of such order not being objected to and the proceeding having gone on to its conclusion as if it had been obtained.
Semble that in Illinois, in the case of a perfectly fair assignment for the
benefit of creditors, where the trust will give considerable trouble and
property assigned is of a sort that little or no cash will pass into the
hands of the assignee, a payment by the debtor previously to the assignment's being made, of a certain sum on account of commissions, need
not of necessity vitiate the assignment.

MYERs, Kinsly, and Stout, having obtained judgment
against Fenn, filed a bill against him and three other persons named respectively, Thompson, Green, and Roberts,which last-named person had been Fenn's general assignee,
charging a fraudulent transfer of property by'hin to them.
Before issue was had on this bill, one Bowen, having a judgment against Fenn for $3260.96, and a certain Reed having
one for $3916.75, upon each of which execution had been
returned unsatisfied, united by petition in the bill of Myers,
Kinsly, and Stout. The petitions were filed without an3
order of court; but no objection was made, and the hearing
went on as if an order had been granted. The bill set forth
that Fenn, being hopelessly insolvent, had conveyed large

