Dee 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEX.

377

Syllabus.

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.
1 Personal property left in a hostile country by an owner who abandons
such country in order to go to the other belligerent, and so to return to
his proper allegiance and soil, becomes, unless an effort is made with
promptitude to remove it from such country, impressed with its character, and as such liable to the consequences attaching to enemy's property.
2. The presumption of the law of nations is against an owner who suffers
such property to continue in the hostile country for much length of
time.
3. The effect of war is to dissolve a partnership subsisting between citizens of nations at war; and if the person abandoning the hostile country, have had his property in partnership with citizens of the enemy
country, it is his duty to dispose of, and withdraw his interest in the
firm. If he do not, such interest is subject to the rule above stated
with regard to individual property.
4. Ships in time of war are bopnd by the character impressed upon them by
the government from which their documents issue and under whose flag
and pass they sail. The share of a citizen in a ship sailing under an
enemy's flag and papers, and who has had ample time and every facility
to withdraw his effects from the enemy country, or dispose of such interests as could not be removed, but who has not attempted so to withdraw or dispose of them, is accordingly subject to capture and condemnation equally with the shares of enemies in the same ship. And where
the cargo and ship are owned by the same person, the cargo follows the
fate of the ship.
6. During the late rebellion, a loyal citizen domiciled at the time it broke
out in one of the rebellious States, and trading there as a member of a
commercial firm, abandoned it and removed to a loyal State. He never
in any way aided or abetted the rebellion, but there was no evidence
that he ever attempted or desired to withdraw his property from the
rebellious region. In a year, more or less, after the rebellion broke out,
the rebel authorities professed by one of their decrees to confiscate his
interest in the firm ; and the partners resident in the rebellious Stateshe having no connectiDn with or knowledge of their action-loaded a
ship which lie alleged belonged to his firm when lie left it, and which,
in attempting, under papers, flag, officers, and crew of the Confederate
States, to run the blockade established by the United States, two years
before, of the Southern coast, was captured by a Federal cruiser.
Held, that so much time having elapsed after the proclamation and before
the confiscation and the capture, without effort on the part of the loyal
owner to get it away from the rebellious region, his share in vessel and
cargo was rightly condemned with the shares of the partners in robo-

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct:

Statement of the case.
lion ; that the alleged confiscation was no excuse for his not having pre
viously made an effort to withdraw or dispose of his interest in the firm
and that neither his loyal domloil during the rebellion, nor, under the
circumstances, the confiscation, nor his want of connection with or
knowledge of the enterprise, nor all combined, defeated the right of the
captors.
6. In proceedings in prize, parties who were not in any way parties to the
litigation in the District Court, and are neither appellants nor appellees,
cannot come into this court and be heard as "intervenors."

from the District Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana.
The steamer William B.galey,-with a register issued at
Mobile, June 16, 1863, under the authority of the " Confederate States," and reciting a previous enrolment in 1857
and a present ownership,-" property having changed,"-by
Waring Arnd others (" citizens of the Confederate States"
and "trustees of association of stockholders)," with a master
appointed by these trustees, and bearing the Confederate
flag,-sailed from Mobile, July 17, 1863, during the blockade of that port, proclaimed ,April 19, 1861, by the United
States, for Havana. Her cargo was of cotton, turpentine,
&c. No papers were on board, for "fear of being captured." The "cotton was shipped for the benefit of the
owners in Mobile." All the officers and crew were, with
one exception, "citizens of the Confederate States." The
master had instructions to escape the blockading vessels,
but not to resist.
Being perceived by the blockading squadron, she was
pursued, and, after a bisk chase, captured. Being brought
into New Orleans and libelled for condemnation, a claim for
one-sixth of the vessel and cargo was interposed by Joshua
Bragdon, and of this sixth he prayed restitution,
The facts upon which he grounded his claim were, that he
was, and for many years bad been, a resident of the State of
Indiana, a loyal State; that the firm of Cox, Brainerd & Co.,
of Mobile, Alabama, a rebel State, were the sole owners of
ti)3 captfred vessel and her cargo, of which firm the claimant
had been for several years a member, and owned one-sixth
interest in all the property of the copartnershil), which inAPPEAL

Dec. 1866.]

TIlE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

879

Statement of the case.

terest lie had never in any way transferred. That he was,
and always had been, a true and loyal citizen of the United
States, and that he had never, in any way, aided or abeted
the rebellion, and after the breaking out of the same had
never exercised any act of ownership or control over the
property or the captured steamer, and that he had no connection with, or knowledge of, the unlawful voyage of the
steamer which occasioned her capture. That in consequence
of his loyalty, the so-called Confederate government seized
all his interest and property in said firm of Cox, Brainerd &
Co., and by a decree and process of one of her pretended
courts, " at some time during the year 1862,-the exact
date not known,"-confiscated the same. That all such acts
and proceedings of the insurrectionary government were
void, and that the title Qf the claimant to his property remains unimpaired.
On the trial these facts were admitted of record by the
District Attorney as true. The court dismissed the claim
with costs, and condemned both vessel and cargo.
No other claim having been interposed in the proceedings
in the lower court for any portion of the captured property
or its proceeds, the only question presented by the appeal
was the legal sufficiency and merit of the claim of Bragdon
for his one-sixth.
After the case came into this court by appeal, however,
the owners of the remaining five-sixths filed a petition asking to intervene for their interests. Their excuse for not appearing or putting in any claim in the District Court, it may
be here stated, was, that they were residents of a state
hostile to the United States, and had therefore no standing
in that court; that this disability continued till after the case
was removed into this court by appeal. And they set up, as
reason for the restitution of their shares to them, that since
the appeal they had received from the President "' a full
pardon and amnesty for all offences by them committed
arising from participation, direct or implied, in the said rebellion."

380

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in support of the claim.

Messrs. Henry Orawford S. S. Cox, and J.J. Lewis, for the
appellants and for the petitioners:
There is no dispute about the facts. The case is to be
taken as a special verdict or case agreed on and stated.
I. We have, then, a question of good prize or lawful property-a contest between the government and a citizen, whom
'sheadmits to have been unshaken in his allegiance during
a long rebellion, as to the right of the former to forfeit his
property, or her duty to restore the same upon his application.
If the United States has warrant as against th-admitted
rightful owner to forfeit this property as good prize, it can
only be on account of the commission of some offence
against the law of nations. There are only two such offences which can be relative to th present case. We will
treat them in their order.

1. The cl(dmant's property in vessel and cargo cannot be forfeited as enemy's property.
To justify condemnation of property for such reason it is
necessary to establish (a) the domicil of the owner in the
enemy's country, or (b)the employment of the property,
either actually or constructively, by him in illegal trade
with the enemy.
(a) Since it is not the place where a thing is, which determines the nature of that thing, but the character of the person to whom it belongs, the general principle upon the subject has always been, that the domicil of the party is the
true test Of national character and determines the nature of
property.* And so the property of one resident in the enemy's territory is res hostilis, and the lawful subject of maritime capture.t
The question presented by this claim cannot be injuriously
affected by the principle thus announced. The claimant here
was not domiciled on the south side of what Grier, J.,J calls
"the boundary marked by lines of bayonets, which can be
The Emanuel, 1 Robinson, 296; Upton's Laws of War, 113, 150.
+ The Venus, 8 Cranch, 253; The Hoop, 1 Robinson, 196.
- Prize Cases. 2 Black, 635.

Dec. 1866.]

Tim,

WILLIAM

BAGALEY.

Argument in support of the claim.

crossed only by force ;" no had he at any time been "a citizen or subject of any State or district in insurrection against
the United State.i;" but, on the contrary, as the government
admits, was, and long had been, a resident loyal citizen of
the State of Indiana.
(b) The other criterion of " enemy's property" is equally
powerless to work a forfeiture. That test is thus defined by
an eminent writer: "All the property of enemies found
afloat, and all property of citizens or subjects conducting
themselves as belligerents, may be lawfully captured."*
This rule has been applied in such a multitude of cases
that a cursory reference to the language employed by courts
cannot fail to give a correct appreciation of its true meaning and limitation. In the leading case of The Rapid,t it is
said:
"A citizen or ally may be engaged in a hostile trade, and
thereby involve his property in the fate of those in whose cause
he embarks."
Again, in another case:
"iHe incorporated himself into the permanent interests of the
enemy." I
In a third case, Sir William Scott says:
"By intendment of law, all property condemned is the property of enemies; that is, of persons so to be considered in the
particular transaction."§
Text-writers proceed in the same way:
"He who clings to the profits of a hostile connection must be
content to bear its losses also."1I
Story, J., thus speaks:
"When a person is engaged in the commerce of the enemy
*Phillimore,

International Law, vol. 3,

345.

j 8Cranch, 155.
Thirty Hogsheads of Sugar v. Boylo. 9 Cranch, 191.
The Elsebe, 5 Robinson, 172.
j Upton's Maritime War, 110; 1 K cnt's Commentaries, 82.

882

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

upon the same footing and with the same advantages as native
resident subjects, his property employed in such trade is deemed
incorporated in the general business of that country, and subject
to confiscation, be his residence where it may."*
In the case of navigating under the pass or flag of the
enemy, the party who uses them "is not at liberty," it is said
in The iFortuna Verissimo, " when they turn to his disadvantage, to deny the character which he has worn for his own
benefit."t
All these instances,-sailing under the enemy's pass or
flag; breach of blockade; carriage of contraband; establishment or continuance of a house of trade in the enemy's
country; illegal traffic with the enemy,-are cases of a
criminal voluntary adoption of the enemy character by the citizen, odious violations of his duty to his government; and
justice requires that all his ventures so employed be the
rightful subjects of capture and condemnation as enemies'
property.
The application of this principle to the facts 6f the case at
bar is not difficult. The claimant never was, at any time,
within the insurrectionary lines; he had no dominion over
his property after the inception of the rebellion, and he had
no participation in, connection with, or knowledge of, the
transaction of his former copartners.
Instead, therefore, of the claimant's involving his property
by "embarking in the cause" of the rebellion, within the
meaning of the rule as laid down in The Rapid, he maintained his loyalty with such firmness that the rebel government confiscated his property as that of an alien enemy. He
did not in any manner " incorporate himself into the permanent interest of the enemy." He is not seeking, as was the
claimant in te Fortuna Verissimo, "to deny the character
which he has worn for his own benefit," but he is striving
San Jose IDdiano, 2 Gallison, 268; and see Maisonaire v. Keating, Id.
338; and The Friendschaft, 4 Wheaton, 105.

t 1 Dodson, 87; and see The Success, Id. 131; The Hiram, 1 Wheaton, 440;
The Vigiiantia, 1 Robinson, 13.

Dec. 1866.]

TiiE

WILLIAM

BAGALEY.

883

Argument in support of the claim.

to maintain, as best he may, the character of a consistently
loyal citizen. Other than this le has neither sought nor
worn. ie has not been, in the language of Judge Story,
"engaged iii the commerce of the enemy, upon the same
footing, and with the same advantages, as resident subjects," nor upon any footing or terms whatever. From the
commencement of the rebellion, he stood aloof from his
rebellious associates; he maintained his proper fealty; he
turned his back upon his property situated within the control of the insurrectionary forces, trusting in the power of
the government to reassert its supremacy, and in its honor
to restore. Ile has " not clung to, nor received the profits
of, any hostile connection," but in thought and act has remained true to his obligations as a citizen. lie has not, in
any manner, "' conducted himself as a belligerent."
2. The claimant's property cannot be decreed good prize for any
breach of blockade, unless the offence was committed'in his interest
and in person or by agent.
The breach of blockade is viewed in all cases as a criminal act. This necessarily implies a criminal intent, and, of
course, a knowledge ot the existencep of the blockade and the
determination to violate it.*
The books bear testimony to the frequency with which the
courts have enforced this discrimination between those who
are wholly innocent, and those who are tainted with the corrupt design, and commit the overt act: the property of the
one being restored, while full fbrfeiture is visited upon the
latter. No doubt, it is a presumption of the law of prize,
that a breach of blockade is committed in the interest of the
cargo; and hence, primafacie, both vessel and cargo are subject to condemnation. Still if it be admitted that the owners of the cargo stood clear from even a possible intention
of fraud, their property will be excepted from the penal consequence. t
The leading authorities upon this point will be found col" The Betsy, 1 Robinson, 92; The Nancy, 1 Acton, 59.
t United States v. Guillem, 11 Howard, 62; The Exchange, 1 Edwards.
438 The Neptunus, 8 Robinson, 173; The Adonis, 6 Id. 228.

TiLE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Of,

Argument in support of the claim.

lated in United Stales v. GuilleM, in this court.* There the
vessel had been guilty of an undoubted violation of the law
and was condemned accordingly, but upon the intervention
of an innocent owner of a portion of the cargo, it was holden,
that "if the owner can show that he did not participate in
the offence, his property is not liable to forfeiture."
It is notable, also, how indulgently the courts construe the
law in certain cases in favor of the personally innocent, even
as against the wilful action of their agents. As when orders
have been given for goods prior to the existence of a blockade, and it appears that there was not time for countermanding the shipment afterwards, the courts hold that the owner
of the cargo is not responsible for the act of his enemy agent,
who might have an interest in sending off the goods, in direct opposition to the interests of his principal.t Under
similar cireumstances.T the cargo of an innocent neutral was
restored; Sir William Scott saying:
" The rule that a principal is bound by the acts of his agent
is obviously too rigid to be applied to a case where it is the interest of the agent to get the goods off, and run the risk of capture, while the principal is wholly innocent of the risk."'
This broad distinction between guilty property which may
be, and the goods of innocent owners which cannot be forfeited, is recognized throughout all the administration of the
law of prize. The case of the carriage of contraband furnishes an illustration. Formerly, under a less refined dispensation of the international code, the presence of contraband articles worked a fbrfeiture of the ship, but this too
rigid rule has been relaxed in modern times to a forfeiture
of freight and expenses only, save in aggravated cases, or
when the contraband articles belong to the owner of the vessel.§ To escape from the contagion of contraband, the in11 Howard, 62.
t The Exchange, 1 Edwards, 39.
: The Neptunus, 3 Robinson, 173; and see The Adelaide, 3 Id. 281.
The Mercurius, 1 Robinson, 288; The Jonge Tobias, Id. 329; The
Pranklin, 3 I. 217.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.
A-gument in support of the claim.

nocent articles must belong to a different owner,* for the
penalty of forfeiture extends only to all the property of the
same owner involved in the same unlawful transaction.t
The distinction is also approved in the case of carriage of
despatches, which works a forfeiture of the ship which conveys them, and ob conlinentiam delict of the cargo ifthey belong to the same owner.t
Also, in the case of the carriage of enemy's goods in the
ship of a neutral, when although the specific property is subject to capture, the lien of the neutral for his freight cannot
be divested or forfeited.§
While the accepted doctrine is, that a deliberate and continued resistance to search is followed by the legal consequence of forfeiture, this consequence cannot be visited upon
the cargo when the owner is innocent of any participation
in the unlawful resistance.l
Determined by these tests the interest of the claimant is
obviously beyond the reach of forfeiture. He comes fairly
within the exception stated in United States v. Guillem, as
" he did not participate in the offence."
There is, however, another principle touching the law of
blockade, borrowed from the general admiralty practice, and
of frequent application.

Recognizing the full force of the

maxim quifacit per alim facil per se, the law of nations holds
the owners of vessels to be accountable for the acts of those
to whom they have intrusted the vessel, and in such cases
decrees forfeitures or awards restitution of the owner's property according to the criminal or lawful conduct of their
agents.
Philnimore thus notices the doctrine of agency :
"It is a general rule that ship and cargo are both confiscated
" The Staadt Embden, 1 Id. 26; Halleck's International Law, 573.
f 3 Phillimore's International Law, 372; The Floreat Commercium, 8
Robinson, 178; The Sarah Christina, I Id. 242.
The Atalanta, 6 Id. 460.
The Frances, 8 Cranch, 418; The Marianna, 6 Robinson, 25.
The Nereide, 9 Cranch, 888.
8 International Law, 8CO.
25
VOL. V.

TilE

WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in support of the claim.

for a breach of blockade, but then an important distinction must
be taken, viz., whether the owners of the cargo are, or are not
identical with the owners of the ship. If they are not, the cargo
is not confiscable, u.nless, before the goods were shipped, the
owners were, or ought to have been, apprised of the existence
of the blockade, or unless it be shown that under the circumstances
the act of the master personally binds them."
Sir William Scott in judicial decision holds similar Ian
guage :*
"In a ease of breach of blockade, in order to make the conduct
of the vessel affect the cargo, it is necessary that the owners
were or might have been cognizant, or to show that the act of the
master of the ship personally binds them. The master is the agent
of the owners of the vessel, and can bind them by his contracts
or misconduct, but lie is not the agent of the owners of the cargo
unless specially so constituted."
The reason for this rule of the owner's liability for his
agent's conduct, is thus stated in one case by that great
judge :t
"If the owner of the ship will place his property under the
absolute mnsnagement and control of persons who are capable
of lending it to be made an instrument of fraud in the hands of
the enemy, he must sustain the consequences of such misconduct on the part of his agent."

And elsewhere,l thus:
"Owners of cargo must answer to the country imposing the
lockade, for the acts of the persons employed by them."
So again, in the case of The Columbia.§
"This vessel came from America, as appears, with innocent
The T[ercurius, 1 Robinson, 82; and see The Mlary, 9 Cranch, 126; The
Weptunus, 3 Robinson, 178.

t The Ranger, 6 Id. 126.
: The James Cook, 1 Edwards, 261.
1 Robinson,: 54; and see The Calypso, 2 Id. 161.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

887

Argument in support of the claim.

intentions on the part of her American owners, for it was not
known in America that Amsterdam was blockaded, and therefbre there is no proof immediately affecting the owners. But
a person may be penally affected by the misconduct of his agent
as well as by his own acts; and if he delegated general powers to
others and they misuse their trust, his remedy must be against
them."
It is safe to assume that the authorities cited above, establish that no forfeiture can be incurred unless the offence
was committed by some agent appointed by the owner, anid
touching the identical property intrusted to his care. If
this be correct, it follows that the government fails to make
out any case against the property of this appellant. It will
be remembered that she admits, not only that he was personally innocent of all wrongful practices, but that since the
beginning of the rebellion, he, " in no way exercised any
act of ownership or control over his property, and that he
had no connection with or knowledge of the unlawful conduct and voyage of the vessel, for which she was condemned
as prize." He had appointed no agents; no one was upon
the vessel representing or pretending to represent him, or
whose wrongful conduct could in the estimation of a wise
and just code be justly imputed to him. Neither was the
voyage planned or prosecuted in his interest, for his rebellious copartners had the exclusive control of the property,
while his interest was attempted to be divested by the rebellious government, and no matter how remunerative the illegal voyage might have proven if successful, it stands upon
the record that " the claimant had no connection with or
knowledge" of it. Ie had "employed" no one; "had constituted no one master," and so far as his property was concerned, their possession and use of it was wrongful as to him,
for he had not intrusted it "to any one." Since the relation
of principal and agent did not exist between him and amy
one on board the vessel, it is simply impossible, under the
authorities quoted, and the evident justice and reason of the
thing, that the claimant should be clothed with great responsiblities, and visited with heavy forfeiture for the conduct

888

[Sup. Ct

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.
Argument in support of the claim.

of those, in whom he has reposed no authority whatever, to
whom he had intrusted no property, and whose every action
was utterly beyond his control, and in direct denial of his
rights.
So far as concerns Bragdon's -interest in this property he
was clothed by law with both the right of property and the
right of possession, while his copartners had the naked possession of his interest without right, and under the decree
of a false court, whose authority cannot for a moment be
recognized. It would be preposterous to contend, that for
the deeds of persons guiltily in the possession of property, the
true and innocent owner is to be held responsible. "Possession and use," says this court in the early case of The
Resolution,* "ought upon a question of property to have the
same influence in courts of admiralty as in courts of common law. It ought to be considered as a good title and as
conclusive upon all mankind except the right owner. If the
papers affirm the ship and cargo to be the property of an
enemy, there mugt be a condemnation, unless those who
contest the capture can produce clear and unquestionable
evidence to the contrary."
"Upon a piratical capture," it declared in the later case
of The Josefa Segunda,t "the property of the original owners
cannot be forfeited for the misconduct of the captors in violating the municipal laws of the country where the vessel
seized by them is carried."
An English case in point with the present, is The Vriend.
schap,t where a British ship having been captured by-the
enemy, was again captured by a British cruiser for a flagrant
breach of blockade by a neutral in possession; but the court
adhering to the doctrine above quoted, ruled that the illegal
acts of those illegally in possession did not divest the title
of the rightful owner, and awarded restitution upon his intervening in the proceedings for condemnation.
If an opposite doctrine was conceded, no case could ever
.*2 Dallas, 1.

t 5 Wheatoir, 388.

$ 6 Robinson, 88.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.
Argument in support of the claim.

occur in which restitution could be awarded, and the jus postliminii would remain to the mockery of the citizen an unmeaning fiction of the law.
3. The fact that the claimant owns only a portion of the captured property instead of the whole, will not exclude him from the
protection of the legal principles above established.
Courts discriminate between the guilty and innocent coowners of the same property, restoring one portion to the
citizen and forfeiting the other as the property of enemies
and subject to capture.
The exact case is thus put by Sir William Scott, in The
Jonge Tobias.*
"Formerly, according to the old practice, the carriage of contraband worked a forfeiture of the ship, but in later times the
rule has been relaxed to the forfeiture of the ship only when
owned by the same person. If he owns a share of the vessel, his
share only will be condemned."
In Graham's claim,t Judge Story decides:
"I hold this shipment to be on joint account. I therefore
hold William Graham as entitled to one-third part of the present
shipment, and as he is a domiciled British merchant I condemn
it as lawful prize to the captors. The other two-thirds belonging to citizens, I order to be restored."
In another instance,T when a cargo was shipped from
Malaga to St. Petersburg in an English vessel, by a Spanish
house on joint account with a London firm, the same judge
held, that while the share of the enemy was good prize, the
interest of the neutral Spanish house could not be subjected
to condemnation.
In The San Jose Indiano and Cargo, partners' interests were
distinguished, the enemy's interests being condemned and
citizens' restored, in divers instances.§
It rermains to direct the attention of the court to certain
* 1 Robinson, 829.
The Betsy, 2 Id. 210.

t 1 Gallison, 618.
2 Id. 284, 298, 800, 801, 8083, 804, 805.

390

Tis WILLIAM

BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the claim.

other rules of the international code, which authorize and
require its restoration.
4. The claimant hating established an indefeasible leqal title to
this property, was entitled, as soon as it was reseaed from the
enemy, and came within the dominion of the United States, to fall
restitution thereof.
The record shows, that long prior to the rebellion, the
claimant was the owner of this property. That being within
the insurrectionary district, he exercised no control over it,
and it was continually within the rebellious territory and
under the exclusive authority of rebellious citizens. That
in the year 1862, the so-called Confederate government
seized his property jure belli, and undertook to extinguish
the title of the claimant, by a condemnation and sale. A
new register appears to have been taken out after the sale,
property having changed." Then follows the capture by
our cruisers.
There is then property; an illegal capture by a government neither defacto nor dejare, but only a rank usurpation;
,an illegal and void condemnation and sale, and then a restoration of the property to the power of the country of the
rightful owner. It being conceded that no taint of fraud or
disloyalty can be imputed to the claimant, it would seem to
be a proposition almost too plain for argument, that the title
of the original proprietor has not been divested by any of
these transactions. That the seizure of his property by the
insurgent government was illegal and criminal, and that the
sentence of condemnation and the proceedings subsequent
thereto, were without the semblance of authority and void,
are statements which it were idle to elaborate.
The obligation of the government under such a state of
affairs, is clearly defined by the French writer Vattel :*
"The sovereign is bound to protect the persons and property
of his subjects, and to defend them against the enemy. When,
therefore, a subject or any part of his property has fislen into
the enemy's possession, should any fortunate event bring them
* Page 385, 391.

Dec. 1866.]

TiE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

391

Argument in support of the claim.

again into the sovereign's power, it is undoubtedly his duty to
restore them to their former condition, to re-cstablish the persons in all their rights and obligations, to give back their
effects to the owners, in a word, to replace everything on the
same footing on which it stood previous to the enemy's capture."
Our American
thing:

author Halleck* redeclares the same

"This right of postliminy is founded upon the duty of every
state to protect the persons and property of its citizens against
the operations of the enemy. When, therefore, a subject is rescued by the state or its agents he is restored to his former
rights and condition under his own state, for his relations to
his own country are not changed, either by the capture or the
rescue. So of the property of the subject recaptured from the
enemy by the state or its agents, it is no more the property of
the state than it was before it fell into the hands of the enemy.
It must therefore be restored to its former owner."
This doctrine was recognized many years ago in England.t
When a British ship had been captured by the French,
condemned as prize and fitted out by them as a vessel of
war, and was then recaptured by a British cruiser, it was
held that a British subject had always a right, not barred by
any given duration of time, to restitution of his property.1
During the war of the rebellion, this right of the citizen
to his property and the obligation of the government to restore, have been conceded and enforced and restitution
awarded to the true owners.§
2; and see, The Acteon, 2 Dodson, 48.
t 'Woodward v. Larking, 3 Espinasse, 286.
$ The Renard, Hay & Marriott, 222; and see, the Vriendschap, 6 Robinson, 38.
The Mary Alice; The H. C. Brooks; Lizzie Weston, M. S. Decisions
of South. Dist. of New York; Claims of Lear & Sons and Irvin & Co., ap.
proved and allowed.
* International Law, 866,

THIE

WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

Outside the doctrine of "postliminy, which rests upon its
own peculiar principles, the courts of admiralty have been
diligent in restoring property in all cases where the original
owner's title has not been lawfully divested, and it is now a
doctrine of universal acceptance, that the original title must
prevail, unless the property was captured by a lawful enemy,
in a lawful manner, and a sentence of condemnation by a
competent court has intervened.
It is not essential for the operation of this rule that the
capture should be piratical. "A capture, though not piratical, may be illegal and of such a nature as to induce the
court to award restitution."* If property be retaken from a
captor clothed with a lawful commission, but not an enemy,
it must be restored. For the act of taking being a wrongful
act could not change the property. And so our courts have
invariably decided that where a capture is made of the
property of the subjects of a nation in amity with the United
States, by a vessel, built, owned, equipped, and armed in the
United States, it is illegal, and if the property is brought
within the jurisdiction of this country, it will be restored to
the original owner.t
The absence of a valid sentence of condemnation is considered equally fatal as an illegal capture.
If a neutral state seize and sell the vessel, there being no
sentence of condemnation, the title is not changed.j
Where a British ship had been captured, carried into Norway, and condemned before a French consul, it was held that
the sentence was invalid, and the property should be restored.§ A case is cited at the end of Assievedo v. Cambridge,
in 1695, reparted by Lucas,j where restitution was decreed
after a long adverse possession, two sales, and several voyages.
* Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dallas, 188.

t La Conception, 6 Wheaton, 235; The Arrogante Barcelones, 7 Id. 496;
[he Santa Maria, 7 Id. 490; The Monte Allegro, 7 Id. 620; The Fanny,.
10 Id. 658; The Bello Corrunes 6 Id. 152; The Vrow Anna Catharina, 5
Robinson, 20.
t Wilson v. Forster, 6 Taunton, 25.
j Tae Kierlighett, 3 Robinson, 99.
10 Modern, 77.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

Argument in support of the claim.

Inasmuch as in the case at bar, the original seizure by the
insurgents was unlawful, and the sentence of condemnation
utterly invalid, the application of these authorities is obvious. Upon the general doctrine of restitution, the reasoning of this court in The Resolution is very appropriate:
"All the authorities cited on cases of capture authorized by
the rights of war are where the property captured was the property of an enemy. Not an instance has been produced where a
capture not authorized by the rights of war has been held to
change the property. To say that a capture which is out of the
sanction and protection of the rights of war can nevertheless
derive a validity from the rights of war, is surely a contradiction in terms. The rights of war can only take place among
enemies, and therefbre a capture can give no right unless the
property captured be the property of an enemy."
5. The object of the war against rebellion as prosecuted by the
government, and its policy repeatedly declared by the legislative and
executive departments and followed by the judiciary, require the
restoration of this property.
By the rebellion of 1861, it "became necessary," "for the
general government to vindicate by arms its own rights and
the rights of its citizens."
These words comprehend in and of themselves the whole
scope and object of the war-of self-defence in which the nation has been engaged for the past few years.
4
Congress resolved early in the struggle that the war was
not waged for conquest or oppression, but " to defend and
maintain the supremacy of the Constitution, and to preserve
the Union."*
By the acts of July 13, 1861, and July 29, 1861, to provide for the suppression of the rebellion, and under the
authority of which the war has been mainly carried on, it is
enacted that whenever it becomes impracticable to enforce
the laws of the U-iited States by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, it shall be lawful to call out the militia,
* Mr. Crittenden's resolution, July, 1861.

TIE WILLIA.M BAGALEY.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

and employ the army and navy "t o enforce the fail/ful execu.
lion of the laws, and suppress such rebellion."
The President says, in his proclamation of September 22,
1862:
"I do hereby proclaim and declare that hereafter as hereto.
fore, the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the constitutional relation between the United States
and each of the States and people thereof, in which State that
relation is or may be disturbed."
These declarations of the object of the war have been followed by the courts. "1The war, so far as the government
has been an actor," says Botts, J., in The Hiawatha,"has been
defensive, and in protection of the existence and property
of the government, and the welfare of its citizens." "In a
ciVil war," says Sprague, J., in TheAny Warwick, " the military power is called in only to maintain the government in
the exercise of its legitimate civil authority."
But, while the object of the war was thus clearly defined,
the condition of afFairs was so anomalous, the contest of
such gigantic size, and extended over such a vast territory,
that any measures which the government might take to defend its existence and restore its supremacy, would necessarily affect the doservin,-the loyal as well as the disloyal.
It is instructive, however, to note with what jealous care
Congress and the Executive so ordered and wielded the belligerent power of the nation, that while it was a weapon
against treason, it was as far as possible a shield for the loyal
and the oppressed. Whiting* says upon this subject:
"The President having adopted the policy of protecting loyal
citizens, wherever they may be fbund, all seizure of their property and all interference with them have been forborne."
The President, in his proclamation of Sptember 22, 1862,
declares:
"The

Executive will in due time recommend that all loyal
War Powers, 59.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

395

Argument in support of the claim.

persons shall be compensated for all losses they may have incurred by acts of the United States."
The letters ofAdmiral Porter to the Secretary of the Navy,
of May 11 and 31, 1864, touching the Red River cotton, and
the pi'oclamation of General Butler* on taking possession
of New Orleans, are but reiterations of the general policy
of the government.
By legislation in every form, the legislative department
of the nation has recognized the same distinction and provided for the protection of all who have in fact maintained
their allegiance.
Section 1, of the act of August 6, 1861, " to confiscate
property used for insurrectionary purposes," enacts that if
any person shall knowingly use his property, or suffer it to
be used in aiding, abetting, or promoting the insurrection,
such property shall be the lawful subject of prize and capture.
The act of July 31, 1861, appropriates two millions of
dollars to purchase arms " to place in the hands of the loyal
citizens residing in any of the States, of which the inhabitants are in rebellion against the government of the United
States."
Section 9, of the act amending an act regulating commercial intercourse, July 2, 1864, prohibits all further intercourse "hexcept to supply the necessities of loyal persons residing in the insurrectionary States."
Section 3 of the act to provide for the collection of abandoned property, March 3, 1863, cli. 120, provides, that when
the property of any one resident in the seceded States has
been seized and sold by virtue of the act, the owner may go
before the Court of Claims within two years after the sup.
pression of the rebellion, and, upon proof of his loyalty, will
be entitled to receive the proceeds arising from the sale of
his property.
Section 7 of the Confiscation Act, July 17, 1862, enacts
that "if said property shall be found to have belonged to a
See 2 Wallace, 264.

THE

WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

person engaged in rebellion, or who has given aid or coin.
fort thereto, the same shall be condemned as enemy's property."
An act to protect certain liens, March 3,1863, provides
that if any loyal citizen holds a lien upon any vessel or other
property, that the same shall be preferred to the claim of the
government for condemnation.
Section 7 of the act regulating the collection of direct
taxes in insurrectionary districts, allows any loyal citizen
having a lien upon any real estate which has been sold for
taxeto redeem the same. February 6, 1863.
It would seem, therefore, from the testimony of these
measures, that both the executive and legislative branches
of the government have declared the /settled policy of the
nation to be, that no forfeitures shall be inflicted in this war
on any but the rebellious, and that under all contingencies
the truly loyal citizens South and North shall be protected
and secured in the enjoyment of their rights of person and
of property. To put any other construction upon these
enactments and the general conduct of the war, would be to
shut our eyes against their obvious and accepted meaning.
Such policy is in recognition of the obligations which a just
government owes to its faithful citizens, and may well be
called the policy of justice.
The policy of magnanimity pursued by the government to its
rebellions citizens is embraced in the proclamations of protection, amnesties, pardons, and restorations to property and
privileges, which are familiar to all, and are in strict conformity with the declared object of the war. Touching the
latter, this court, in the late case of The Venice,* has approvingly said:
"The same policy may be inferred from the conduct of the
war. Wherever the national troops have re-established order
under national rule, the rights of persons and property have
been in general respected and enforced. Officer Farragut and
General Butler expressed in proclamation the general policy of
2 Wallace, 274.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WIL IAM BAOALEY.

397

Argument in support of the petitioners.

the government. Both were the manifestation of a general purpose which seeks the establishment of the national authority,
and the ultimate restoration of States and citizens to their national relations under better forms and firmer guarantees, without any views of subjugation by conquest."
Keeping in view the declared object of this war, how is it
possible to say that the condemnation of the property of a
loyal citizen of a loyal State is a warrantable exercise of belligerent right; that it would conduce in the remotest degree
to the accomplishment of the desired end? For any such
purpose it would be wholly impotent. Contributing nothing
to " the reparation of injury, the re-establighment of right,
and the restoration of order," such action on the part of
government would of itself be an injury to the citizen, a palpable denial of his common and constitutional right, and
the sure promoter of disorder and discontent. Against any
such forfeiture the government has deliberately set its face.
She has pledged herself to her loyal citizens in every form
by which a government can express its deliberate purpose,by legislative enactments, executive proclamations, judicial
decisions, the consistent management of war,-that this conflict has been waged for the protection, and not the destruction, of those rights. This claimant alike with every other
true citizen has the right to demand, as he does now demand,
that the government shall make good her pledges by according to him the full measure of his rights.
II. As to the remaining owners, now petitioners in this court;
Though ordinarily an appellate court receives no evidence
which was not presented on the bearing in the court below,
in all admiralty causes the rule is different. The case, when
an appeal istaken and perfected, is heard de novo, and there
is no final decree till the appellate court has acted and determined by decree the rights of the claimants to the fund.*
In the case of The Schooner Pinkney, the vessel was condemned in the District Court for violation of the act of Con.
Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 177; United States v. Schooner Peggy, I
Cranch, 103.

98

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the petitioners.

gress prohibiting commercial intercourse with certain parts
of the Island of St. Domingo. An appeal was taken first
to the Circuit Court, and afterwards to this court. Pending
the last appeal the act expired by its own limitation. In
delivering judgment, Chief Justice Marshall says:
'The majority of the court is clearly of opinion that in adiniralty cases an appeal suspends the sentence altogether, and that
it is not res adjudicatauntil the final sentence of the appellate
court is pronounced. The cause in the appellate court is to be
heard de neov, as if no sentence had been passed. This has been
the uniform practice, not only in cases of appeal friom the District to the Circuit Court of the United States, but in this court
also. In prize causes the principle has never been disputed."*
in The Venus, a prize case, the court says, "The cause is
before us as if in the inferior court."
Under this rule it is allowable to allege and prove what
was not alleged or proved in the court below.t
And, until a decree has been actually made, the court is
bound to consider every claim against the fund in court.T
The case stands, therefore, upon the same footing as
though the condemnation had not been decreed in the District Court; and the question presented is, whether this
court, having a gyasp upon the fund, and being called on to
make distribution, will not, sitting in admiralty as in equity,
make an order of distribution as justice and equity shall
appear to require.
The rights of these claimants, as distributees, depend on
the force and effect of the several pardons granted them by
the President. [The counsel then went into a consideration
of the effect of the pardons.]
"Yeaton v. United States, 5 Cranch, 281. And see Penhallow v. Doane,
3 Dallas, 87, 119; United States v. Preston, 3 Peters, 67.
t 'Malley Shattuck, 3 Cranch, 458; Brig James Wells, 7 Id. 22; The Clar.
issa Claiborne, Id. 107; The Samuel, I Wheaton, 9, 112; The Marianna Flora,
I1 Id. 1; The Sally Magee, 3 Wallace, 459.
. $ Constancia, 10 Jurist, 849.

Dec. 1866.]

TIE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

399

Argument for the condemnation.

Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, contra:
I. As to the claim of Bragdonfor the one-sixth.
Giving the fullest effect to the case as stated by the claimant, it is, on its face, a case of enemy property and breach of
blockade.
1. The partnership of Cox, Brainard & Co., of which the
claimant was a member, was established and domiciled in the
enemy country.*
2. Such a partnership is, by the law of war, treated throughout as a hostile establishment, and the whole partnership property is liable to capture and condemnation as enemy's property, notwithstanding one or more of the partners may be
domiciled ini a neutral country; a fortiori,if some of the partners are domiciled in one of the hostile countries and the
rest in the other, the partnership is hostile, and the partners
are also personally enemies.t
3. The courts of prize, in the language of Lord Stowell,
in The Vrow ElizabethT regard vessels as having "a peculiar
character impressed upon them by the special nature of their
documents, and they have always been held to the character
with which they are so invested to the exclusion of any
claims of interest that persons living in neutral countries
may actually have in them."
During the war with Russia, Dr. Lushington, in England,
had occasion to consider and apply the doctrine enunciated
in The Vrow Elizabeth, in the cases of two vessels, The Primus and The Industrie, under the Russian flag, portions of
which belonged to Russian subjects, the other shares being
owned by neutral Danes.§ These cases both occurred at the
beginning of hostilities, and the neutral part-owners were
bonafide entitled to their shares at a period antecedent to the
war and up to the time of seizure.
* The San Jos6 Indiano, 2 Gallison, 286.

t The Friendschaft, 4 Wheaton, 107; The Antonia Johonna, 1 Id. 167;
The Franklin, 6 Robinson, 127.
5 Robinson, 11.
The Primus, 29 English Law ard Equity, 589; The Industrie, 33 Id
57M,

TH

WILLIAM

BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the condemnation.

Ie held that the claims were not maintainable, and that
the neutral as well as the hostile shares were confiscable;
that the flng and pass are binding on all persons having property in the ship; that whoever embarks his property in
shares of a ship is bound by the character of that ship, whatecer it may happen to be; that where a vessel is sailing under
a neutral flag, the captors may show that the property is not
neutral, but part of it belongs to an enemy, and in that case
you divide it and condenm the part which is hostile, and
not tlat part which is neutral; and that the proposition is
not true viee versa, that where a vessel is sailing under a hostile flag you can claim on 'behalf of the neutral the property
under an enemy's flag; and that no distinction could be made
between the flag being adopted prior to the commencenent
of hostilities, and when there was no reason to suppose that
hostilities would have taken place, and the flag being adopted
flagranlte hello.
These two cases were cases of part-owners, whereas the
present case is one of alleged ownership by a partnership, to
which the doctrines just stated are, d fortiori, applicable.
4. This court has in recent cases confiscated the interests
of Northern persons in vessels engaged in commerce with
the rebel ports for illicit trading with the enemy, altogether irrespective of any agency or complicity, on the part of such
)wners, in the guilty voyages.
In the case of The Pilgrim,* the vessel was owned, two:hirds in New Orleans, and one-third in New York and
Connecticut, and was captured for breach of blockade of
New Orleans. Grier, J., said that " the cargo and two-thirds
of the vessel were liable to confiscation as enemy property,
and the remainder for illicit trading with the enemy."
In the ease of The Hcrald,t a British vessel was partly
owned in New York, and the court held that "the shares of
the vessel owned in New York might be condemned for
trading with the enemy, but it is enough that vessel and
carg- were equally involved in breach of blockade."
December Term, 18(33, No. 113.

" 3 Wallace, 768.

Dec. 1866.]

Tim, WILLIAM

BAGALEY.

401

Argument for the condemnation.

In neither of these cases was there any imputation of
guilty knowledge of the breach of blockade on the part of
the loyal Northern part-owners.
5. Admitting the allegation of the partnership and of the
ownership or this vessel by the fir m at the time of capture,
the claimant of course has no interest, right, or share, in
any of the property of the firm, except what remains after
the discharge and payment of all the debts and liabilities of
the partnership, and therefore cannot claim or receive restitution of any particular portion of such property as representin(g the value of his interest therein.
A court of prize has no means of settling the accounts of
the firm and determining tha particular interests of the several members in the property. The ownership of this vessel was in the firm, and the resident members at Mobile,
who were in possession of her, had authority to divest their
own interests, as well as the interest of the Northern member, in virtue of their general power and agency as recognized by the law of partnership.
6. A transfer of the vessel had been effected before the
present voyage to other persons, who obtained the register
found on board, which divested the interest of the firm who
may have owned her before the war. But all interests and
rights in both the vessel and the cargo are confiscable fo
breach of blockade. It is not competent for owner of either
vessel or cargo, in such case, to protect his property from
condemnation by showing innocence in tle transaction. All
parties are concluded by the illegal act of the master, though
it may have been done without their privity, and even contrary to their wishes. It is the act and intention of the master which determine the guilt or innocence of the property
and its liability to confiscation; and this applies equally to
vessel and cargo.*
7. A hostile character is impressed upon the vessel by the
specifically hostile character of the trade in which she had
* Baltazzi v. Ryder, 12 Moore's Privy Council, 184.
voL,. v.

26

402

THE WILLIAm BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

,been engaged during the war, independently of the domieil
status, or relations of the owners.*
When a vessel is engaged defacto for a period of two years
exclusively in the navigation and trade of the enemy's country, in tle possession and control of enemies, and under their
flag, the question of ownership does not urise, and she is confiscable in consequence of the hostile taint which such use
and employment affix upon the property.
II. As to the petitioners, rebel owncrs of the five-sixths. Conceding, argtinentigradia, that they had a right to be heard in
'this court, not having appeared in the other, the effict of the
pardon is not sufficiently clear in a case of seizure like the
present.t
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
The steamer and cargo were captured as prize of war on
the 18th day of July, 1863, and, haying been duly libelled
and prosecuted as such in the District Court, on the 17th
day of August following, they were both condemned as forfeited to the United States. Monition was duly published,
but no one appeared as claimant, either for the steamer or
cargo. Directions of the decree of condemnation were, that
the steamer and cargo, after ten days' public notice, should
be sold by the marshal, and that the proceeds of the sale
should be deposited in the registry of the court for distribution, according to law. Return of the marshal shows that
the notice was duly given, and that the sale was made as direeted by the decree. Proceeds of the sale were paid to the
marshal, but before the amount was actually deposited in
the registry of the court the appellant filed his petition of
intervenfion, clairning one-sixth of the proceeds, upon the
ground that he was the true and lawful owner of one-sixth
part of the vessel and cargo. Allegations of the petition of
intervention were, in substance and eflct, as follows:
* The Vigilantia, 1 Robinson, 1; The Embden, Id. 16; The Endraught,
Id. 22; The Planter's Wensch, 5Id. 227; The Bermuda, 8 Wallace, Ut5.

t See The Gray Jacket, suinra.

Dec. 1860.]

TIE WILLIAm BAGALEY.
Opinion of the court.

1. That the petitioner was, and for many years had been,
a citizen of the State of Indiana; that at the breaking out
of the rebellion he was a member of the firm of Cox, Brainard & Co., at Mobile, Alabama; that the partners of the
firm, as such, were the sole owners of the steamer and
cargo; and that be had never parted with his share or in
any way transferred his interest in the partnership
2. That the steamer, after the rebellion broke out to the
time of the capture, was continually in the waters of the rebellious States, and under the control and management of
those engaged in the rebellion, which rendered it impracticabl and unlawful for him to proceed to the place where
the teamer was, or to exercise any control over the steamer
or any part of the partnership property.
3. That he was, and always had been, a true and loyal
citizen; that he had never given any aid, encouragement
or assistance to the rebellion, and that he had no connec.
tion with, or knowledge of, the unlawful voyage of the
steamer on account of which she was condemned as lawful
prize.
4. That some court of. the Confederate States, so called,
at some time in the year 1862, had condemned and confiscated his interest in the partnership, but he averred that the
decree was wholly nugatory and void, and that his interest
in the steamer and cargo had never been extinguished or
destroyed.
Basing his claim upon these allegations of fact, he prayed
that he might be paid out of the proceeds of the sale onesixth of the amount required to be paid into the registry of
the court.
Exceptions were filed to the petition of intervention, but
they were overruled by the court, and the District Attorney
appeared and admitted that all the facts therein alleged were
true. Parties were heard as upon an agreed statement, and
the District Court entered a decree that the intervention and
claim of the petitioner be rejected and dismissed, with costs.
Appeal was taken by the intervenor from that decree, and
he now seeks to reverse it, upon the ground that he, as

THnE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[SUP, Ct

Opinion of the court.

owner of one-sixth part of the steamer and cargo, is entitled
to one-sixth of the proceeds of the sale.
1. Captors contend that the steamer and cargo were both
rightfully condemned as enemy property, and also for breach
of blockade. Appellant denies the entire proposition as respects his interest in the captured property, and insists that
the one-sixth of the same belonging to him cannot properly
be condemned on either ground, because he was never domiciled in the rebellious States, and because he never employed
the property, either actually or constructively, in any illegal
trade with the enemy, or in any attempt to break the
blockade.
Projected voyage of the steamer was from Mobile to iavana, and the master testified that she sailed under the Confederate flag. Proofs show that she left her anchorage in
the night-time, and that she was captured, as alleged in the
libel, after a brisk chase by several of our blockading squad-'
ron, more than two hundred miles from the port of departure. When captured, she had on board a permanent register, issued at Mobile under Confederate authority, and which
described her owners as trustees of a certain association, and
citizens of the Confederate States.
Testimony of the master showed that the cargo, which
consisted of seven hundred bales of cotton, three thousand
two hundred staves, and one hundred and twenty-five barrels of turpentine, 'was consigned to parties in Havana, and
that the shipment was for the benefit of owners residing at
the home port. Except an informal manifest, the steamer
had no papers on board relating to the cargo, and the master testified that she carried none for the consignee; " for fbar
of being captured." Ile was appointed by the trastees, and
he also testified thaf his instructions were to elude the blockading vessels if possible, but not to resist in case lie was unable to escape. Ship's company consisted of thirty men,
and all the officers and crew, with one exception, were citizens of the enemy country. Direct admission is made by
the master in his testimony that he stole out of the harbor,
and that the steamer and cargo were captured for breach of

Dec. 1866.]

Tim WILLIAm BAGALEY.

405

Opinion of the court.

blockade. Such an admission was hardly necessary to establish the charge, as every fact and circumstance in the case
tended to the same conclusion. Five-sixths of the steamer
and cargo were confessedly enemy property, and the whole
adventure was projected and prosecuted fbr the benefit of
resident enemy owners. None of these facts are controverted by the appellant, but he insists that inasmuch as he
was domiciled in a loyal State, and had no connection with
the adventure or the voyage, his interest cannot properly be
held liable to capture.
2. War necessarily interferes with the pursuits of commerce and navigation, as the belligerent parties have a right,
under the law of nation,, to make prize of the ships, goods,
and effects of each other upon the high seas. Property of
the enemy, if at sea, may be captured as prize of war, but
the property of a friend cannot be lawfully captured, provided he observes his neutrality. Public war, duly declared
or recognized as such by the war-making power, imports a
prohibition by the sovereign to the subjects or citizens of all
commercial intercourse and correspondence WVith citizens or
persons domiciled in the enemy country.*
Neutral friends, or even citizens, who remain in the enemy country after the declaration of war, have impressed
upon them so much of the character of enemies, that trading
with them becomes illegal, and all property so acquired is
liable to confiscation.t
Part-owners of ships are seldom partners in the commercial sense, because no one can become the partner of another
without his consent, and because if they acquire title by
purchase, they usually buy distinct shares at different times
and under different conveyances, and even when they are
the builders they usually make separate contributions for
the purpose. Generally speaking, they are only tenants in
" Jecker v. Montgomery, 13 Howard, 498.

t- The Hoop, 1 Robinson, 196; Alaclachlan on Shipping, 473; The Rapid,
8 Cranch, 155; Potts v. Bell, 8 Term, 561; Wheaton's 'International Law
by Lawrence, 547.

406

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

common; but the steamer, in this case, belonged to the partnership, and throughout the rebellion to the time of capture
was controlled and managed by the partners in the enemy
country.*
Even where the part-owners of a ship are tenants in common the majority in interest appoint the master and control
the ship, unless they have surrendered that right by agreeing in the choice of a ship's husband as managing owner.t
Admiralty, however, in certain cases, if no ship's husband
has been appointed, will interfere to prevent the majority
from employing the ship -against the will of the minority
without first entering into stipulation to bring back the ship
or pay the value of their shares. But the dissenting owners,
in such a case, bear no part of the expenses of the voyage
objected to, and arc entitled to no part of the profits. Such
are the general rules touching the employment a-- control
of ships; but unless the co-owners agree in the choice of a
managing owner, or the dissenting minority go into admiralty, the majority in iiterest control the employment of the
ship and appoint the master.t
Tenants in common of a ship can only sell their own respective shares, but where the ship belongs to a partnership
one partner may sell the whole ship.§
3. Proclamation of blockade was made by the President
on the nineteenth day of April, 1861, and on the thirteenth
day of July, in the same year, Congress passed a law authorizing the President to inderdict, by proclamation, all
trade, and intercourse between the inhabitants of the States
in insurrection and the rest of the United States.11
Provision of the sixth section of the act is, that after fifteen days from the issuing of such proclamation, "any ship
or vessel belonging in whole or part to any citizen or inhabitant" of a State or part of a State, whose inhabitants shall
Helne v. Smith, 7 Bingham, 709.
" Smith's Mercantile Law, 6th ed. 197.
: Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 67, 72.
3 Kent's Com., 11th ed. 154; Wright v. Hunter, 1 East, 20; Lamb v.
Durant, 12 Massachusetts, 54.
U 12 Stat. at Large, 1268, 257.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.
. Opinion of the court.

be so declared to be in insurrection, if found at sea or in the
port of any loyal State, may be forfeited. Reference is made
to those provisions, as showing that our citizens were duly
notified that Congress as well as the President had recognized the undeniable fact that civil war existed between the
constitutional government and the, Confederate States; and
that seasonable notice was given' to all whose interests could
be affected, and that ample opportunity and every facility
were extended to them, which could properly be granted, to
enable them to withdraw their effects friom the States in rebellion, or to dispose of such interests as in the nature of
things could not be removed.
Open war had existed between the belligerents for more
than two years before the capture in this case was made,
and yet there is not the slightest evidence in the record that
the appellant ever attempted or manifested any desire to
withdraw his effects in the partnership or to dispose of his
interest in the steamer. Effect of the' war was to dissolve
the partnership, and the history of that period furnishes
plenary evidence that ample time was afforded to every loyal
citizen desiring to improve it, to withdraw all such effects
and dispose of all such interests. " Partnership with a foreigner," says Maclachlan, "is dissolved by the same event
which makes him an alien enemy ;" and Judge Story says,
"that there is in such cases an utter incompatibility created
by operation of law between thd partners as to their respective rights, duties, and obligations, both public and private,
and therefore that a dissolution must necessarily result therefrom, independent of the will or acts.of the parties."*
Executory contracts with an alien enemy, or even with a
neutral, if they cannot be performed except in the way of
commercial intercourse with the enemy, are ipso facto dissolved by the declaration of war, which operates to that end
and for that purpose with. a force equivalent to that of an
act of Congress.t
* Maulachlan

on Shipping, 475; Story on Partnership, sec. 316; Gris.

wold v. Waddington, 15 Johnson, 67; Same case, 16 Id. 438.
-

Exposito v. Bowden, 7 Ellis & Blackburhe, 768.

408

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Duty of a citizen when war breaks out, if it be a foreign
war, and he is abroad, is to return without delay; and if it
be a civil war, and he is a resident in the rebellious section,
he should leave it as soon as practicable and adhere to the
regular established government. Domicile in the law of
prize becomes an important consideration, because every
person is to be considered in such proceedings as belonging
to that country where he has his domicile, whatever may be
his native or adopted country.*
4. Personal property, except such as is the produce of the
hostile soil, follows as a geueral rule the rights of the proprietor; but if it is suffered to remain in the hostile country
after war breaks out, it becomes impressed with the national
character of the belligerent where it is situated. Prormptitude is therefore justly required of citizens resident in the
enemy country, or having personal property there, in changing their domicil, severing those business relations, or disposing of their effects, as matter of duty to their own government, and as tending to weaken the enemy. Presumption of the law of nations is against one who lingers in the
enemy's country, and if he continue there for much length
of time, without satisfactory explanations, he is liable to be
considered as remorant, or guilty of culpable delay, and an
enemy.t
Ships purchased from an enemy by such persons, though
claimed to be neutral, are for the same reasons liable to condemnation, unless the delay of the purchaser in changing
his domicile is fully and satisfactorily explained. Omission
of the appellant to dispose of his interest in the steamer,
and his failure to withdraw his effects from the rebellious
State, are attempted to be explained and justified, because
the same were, as alleged in the petition, confiscated during
the rebellion under the authority of the rebel government.
More than a year, however, had elapsed after the proclamaThe Vigilantia, 1 C. Robinson, 1; The Venus, 8 Cranch, 288 ; 3 Phillimore's International Lawv, 128.

t Maclachlan on Shipping, 480; The Ocean, 5 Robinson, 91; The Venus,
8 Cranch, 27M.

Dee. 1866.1

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

409

Opinion of the court.

tion of blockade was issued before any such pretended confiscation took place. Members of a commercial firm domiciled in the enemy country, whether citizens or neutrals,
after having been guilty of such delay in disposing of their
interests or in withdrawing their effects, cannot, when the
property so domiciled and so suffered to remain, is captured
as prize of war, turn round and defeat the rights of the captors by provingthat their own domicile was that of a friend,
or that they had no connection with the illegal voyage.
Property suffered so to remain has impressed upon it the
eharawter of enemy property, and may be condemned as
such or for breach of blockade. Prize courts usually apply
these rules where the partnership effects of citizens or neutrals is suffered to remain in the enemy country, under the
control and management of the other partners who are enemies. But there are other rules applicable to ships owned
under such circumstances w'hich must not be overlooked in
this case.
5. Courts and text-writers agree that ships are a peculiar
property, and that such peculiarity assumes more importance
as a criterion of judicial decision in war than in peace. They
have a national character as recognized by the law of nations,
because they regularly carry the flag of the nation to which
they belong. Evidences of ownership are also peculiar, but
vary somewhat according to the laws of the country in which
the ships were built, or in which they are owned.*
Commercial nations generally have, for the advancement
of their owii individual prosperity, confbrred great privileges
upon the ships belonging to their own citizens, and, in consideration thereof, have imposed upon their owners certain
special duties and obligations. Usually they are required to
be registered at the home port, and they are not allowed to
sail on any voyage, foreign or coasting, without such papers
as the laws of the country to which they belong require.t
American vessels sailing for a foreign port are, in all cases,
required by law to carry a passport, and it is generally adWheaton's International Law, by Lawrencc, p. 580.
t Abbott on Shipping, 72.

410

TnrE WILLIAM BAOALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mitted that such a document is indispensable in time of
war.* When a ship is captured as prize of war she is bound
by the flag and pass under which she sailed. Owners are
also bound by those insignia of national character. They
are not at liberty when they happen to be evidence against
them to turn round and deny the character the ship has assumed for their benefit.t
Established rule is that when the owners agree to take the
flag and pass of another country they are not permitted, as
matter of convenience, in case of capture, to change the
position they have voluntarily chosen, but others are allowed
to allege and prove the real character of the vessel. Meaning of the rule, is that the ship is bound by the character,
impressed upon her by the authority of the government
from which all her documents issue; and Chancellor Kent
says this rule is necessary to prevent the fraudulent mask
of enemy's property.1 Adopting that rule, Dr. Lushington
held, in the case of The Industrie,§ that the share of a neutral
in ownership, though purchased before the war, was subject
to condemnation equally with the shares of enemies in the
same ship. Principle of the decision is that whoever embarks his property in shares of a ship is in general bound by
the character of the ship, whatever it may be, and that principle is as applicable to a citizen, after due notice and reasonable opportunity to dispose of his shares, as to a neutral.II
6. Decision of Lord Stowell, in the case of The Mercurius,
was that violation of blockade by the master affects the
ship, but not the cargo, unless it is the property of the same
owner, or unless the owner of the cargo was cognizant of
the intended violation.
Proofs show that the cargo in this case was the property
of the same owners, and, therefore, the case being within
the principle ofthat decision, the cargo must follow the fate
1 Stat. at Large, 489.

Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 95.

t Story on Prize, 61 ; The Elizabeth, 5 C. Robinson, 3; The Fortuna, I
Dodson,, 87; The Success, Id. 132.
1 Kent's Com., llth ed. 91.

The Primus, 29 Eng. Law & Eq. 589.

33 Eng. Law & Eq. 572,

1 C. Robinson, 80.

Dec. 1866.]

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.
Opinion of the court.

of the ship. Subsequent cases, however, decided by the
same learned judge, appear to have carried the rule much
further, and to have established the doctrine in that country
that when the blockade was known, or might have been
known, to the owners of the cargo at the time when the
shipment was made, the master shall be treated as the agent
of the cargo, as well as of the ship, and that the former, as
well as the latter, is liable to capture and condemnation.*
Latest reported decision in that country is that of Baltazzi
v. Ryder,t which was begrd on appeal before the privy council, and the determination, both in the admiralty court and
in the appellate court, was that where the cargo belonged to
the same owners as the ship, the owners of the cargo, as
well as the ship, were in general concluded by the illegal
act of the master.
Giving full effect to the admissions in this case, the appellant shows no just ground for the reversal bf the decree
made by the District Court.
7. Since the appeal was entered in this court the other
partners have filed a petition here, asking leave to intervene for their interests, and claiming the other five-sixths
of the vessel and cargo. They were not parties in the court
below, having never appeared in the suit or made any claim
whatever, and of course did not, and could not, appeal from
the decree. Substance of their excuse for not appearing in
the District Court is tl'tt they were residents in a State
hostile to the United States, and consequently that they had
no standing in that court, by reason of such disability.
Statement of the petition also is that those disabilities continued till after the case was removed into this court by appeal; but they allege that since that time they have severally
received the pardon of the President for all pains and penalties incurred for breach of blockade, and for all offences
committed by them in the rebellion, and by reason of the
premises they pray that their proportion of the proceeds of
The Alexander, 4 C. Robinson, 94; The Adonis, 5 Id. 259; The Exchange, 1 Edwards's Adm. 39; The James Cook, Id. 261.
f- 12 Moore's Privy Council, 183.

412

THE WILLIAM BAGALEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opihion of' the court.

the sale of the steamer and cargo may be restored to them.
Irrespective, however, of any question which might. otherwise arise as to the effect of the pardon, it is quite clear that
the case is not properly before the court. Settled rule in
this- court is that no one but an appellant in such a case can
be heard for the reversal of a decree in the subordinate
court.*
8. Appellees are always heard in support of the decree,
but they cannot have any greater damages than were assessed in the court of subordinate jurisdiction. Intervenors
here, however, are neither-appellants or appellees, as they
did not appear as claimants in the District Court, and were
not in any way made parties to the litigation. Original
jurisdiction in prize, as well as in all other admiralty causes.
is vested .exclusively in the district courts. Property cap.
tured, where appeals are allowed to the Circuit Court, follows the cause into that court, but it does not in any case
follow the cause into this court, because this- court has no
original jurisdiction in such cases.t
Evidently the application in this case is in its nature original, and not appellate, and it is well settled that this court
has no original jurisdiction in prize causes. Such an application cannot be first presented in this court and allowed,
because it would be assuming jurisdiction not granted either
by the Constitution or the laws of Congress.
Petition of intervention is dismissed, and the
DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT AFFIRMED.

* Harrison v. Nixon, 9 Peters, 484; Canter v. Am. Ins. Co., 3 Id. 318;
Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 Id. 4; Airey v. Merrill, 2 Curtiss C. C. 8; Allen V,
Hitch, 2 Id. 147; Buckingham v. McLean, 13 Howard, 150.
t Jennings v. Carson, 4 Cranch, 28; The Collector, 6 Wheaton, 194.

t The Harrison, 1 Wheaton, 298; Marbury v.Madison, 1 Cranch, 173.

