822

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

States depends on like facts and the same p'inciples with
that just decided, and must also be denied.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

SEYMOUR v. FREER.
Where, through mistake or accident, no bond, or a defective bond, has been
filed, this court will not dismiss the appeal,-if it is in all other respects
quite regular-,except on failure to comply with ah order to give the
proper security within such reasonable time as it may prescribe.

from the Circuit Court for Northerfi Illinois.
This was a motion to dismiss an appeal because the bond
for the prosecution of the appeal was not filed within ten
days after the decree.
It appeared that the decree in the Circuit Court was drawn
and placed in the hands of the clerk on the 15th of November, 1866, upon an understanding by the counsel, sanctioned
by the court, that it was to be entered, whe'n approved by
the court, as of that day. It was retained for several days
by the judge, who required a stipulation from counsel in respect to the receiver appointed by the decree, and was then
returned to the clerk, and entered on the 20th as of the 15th.
The bond was filed on the 28th.
APPEAL

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that for the purposes of appeal this decree must
be regarded as having been passed on the 20th, and that the
bond was filed in time.
But if this were otherwise, and through mistake or accident no bond, or a defective bond, bad been filed, this court
would not .dismiss the appeal, except on failure to comply
with an order to give the proper security within such rea.
sonable time as it might prescribe.* What is essential to an
* Brobst v. Brobst, 2 Wallace, 96.

Dec. 1866.]

823

GARRISON' V. CASS COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

appeal is allowance, citation to the appellees, or equivalent
notice or, waiver, and the bringing up of the record at the
next term of this court. Security for prosecution should be
taken by the judge on signing the citation; but if this duty
be omitted or defectively performed, a remedy cain be applied
here on motion.
In the present case a bond, admitted to be sufficient for
costs of prosecution, whether given in time to make appeal
operate as a supersedoas or not, was filed in the court below
before removal to this court.
The motion to dismiss the appeal must therefore be
DENIED.

GARRISON V. CASS COUNTY.
Appeal dismissed for want of jurisdiction, where the decree was rendered
13th June, 1861, but no appeal was'prayed for or allowed until June
Term, 1865, when, on motion of the defendants below, an appeal was
allowed nunclro tunc, as of 13th June, 1861, there having been no citation to the appellees, and the record not having been broug!it up at the
next term.
MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Nebraska.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree in this case was rendered on the 13th June,
1861. No appeal was prayed or' allowed until the June
Term, 1865. At that ter, on motion of the defendants
below, an appeal was allowed nunc pro lune, as of 13th June,
1861.
There is nothing in the record which warranted the making of this order;. nor, if it could have'been lawfully made,
would it avail the defendant, for there was no citation to the
appellees, and the record was not brought up at the next
term of this court.

