Dec. 1866.]

HANSBROUGII V. PECK.

497

Statement of the case.

HANSBROUGII V. PECK.
1. Where in part performance of an agreement a party has advanced money,
or done an act, and then stops short and refuses to proceed to its conclusion, the other party being ready and willing to proceed and fulfil all
his stipulations according to the contract, such first-named party will
not be permitted to recover back for what has thus been advanced or
done.
2. By the statutes of Illinois, as existing in January, 1857, a contract for a
rate of interest exceeding six per cent., did not invalidate the contract.
3. Where a parol promise is, in substance, but the same with a written one,
which the party is already bound to perform, and where all that is done

on the former is in fact but in fulfilment of the latter,-no new consideration passing between the partics,-the existence or enforcement of the
parol contract cannot be set up as a rescission of the written one.

ERRlOR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois.
In January, 1857, Hansbrough and Hlardin agreed with
-one Peck to buy certain lots in Chicago fbr $134,000. The
purchase-nioney was made payable in nine instalments,
each being for $4300, except the last, payable April 28th,
1861, which was for $90,000. The lots had on them at the
time t.wo wooden houses and a barn.
By the contract it was agreed " that the prompt pelformance
of the covenants, and payment of the money shall be a condition
precedent, and that TIME IS OF TIE ESSENCE OF THE CONDITION. "
And also " that in case default shall be made in the payment of any or either of said notes, or any part thereof, at
the time or any of the times above specified for the payment
thereof, for thirty days thereafter, the agreement, and all the
preceding provisions thereof, shall be null and void, and no
longer binding, at the option of said vendor. And all the
payments which shall have been made, absolutely and forever torfeited to said vendor, or at his election the covenants and liability of the purchasers shall continue and remain obligatory."
And also "that in case of defaul t in the payments promptly
on the days named by the purchasers, that it is also the right
VOL. V.

82

IIANSBROUGH

V.

PECK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of said vendor to declare the contract ended, and prior payments forfeited, and to consider all parties in the possession
of the premises at the time of such default, tenants at will Pf
said vendor al a rent equal to ten per cent. on the whole amoant of
said pur'ihase-money. And the vendor from that time is declared to be restored, with the possession and right of possession in the premises, to the exercise of all powers, rights,
and remedies provided by law or equity to collect such rent,
or remove such tenants, the same as if the relation of landlord and tenant were created by an original, absolute lease
for that purpose on a special rent payable quarterly on a
tenure at will, and that the said tenants will not commit or
suffer any waste or damage to said premises or the appurtenances; but, on the termination of such tenancy., will deliver
the premises in as good order and repair as they were at the
commencement of such tenancy."
By a statute of Illinois*"The rate of interest upon the loan or forbearance of any
money, goods, or things in action, shall continue to be six dollars upon one hundred dollars for one year.
" Any person who, for any such loan, discount, or forbearance, shall pay or deliver any greater sum or value than is above
allowed to be received, may recover in an action against the
person who shall have taken or received the same threefold the
amount of money so paid, or value delivered above the rate
aforesaid, either by an action of debt in any court having jurisdiction thereof, or by bill in chancery in the Circuit Court,
which court is hereby authorized to try the same: PROwDED,
said action shall be brought or bill filed within two years from
when the right thereto accrued."
Under this contract, and in the- state of the law above
stated, the purchasers went into possession, and laid out
$18,000 in improving the property by building on it. They
paid $10,000, also, on account of the notes, and about two
years' interest. After erecting these improvements, and
* 1 ' irple's Statutes, p. 633.

Dec. 1866.]

HA'NSBROUGH V.

PECK.

Statement of the case.

paying the two years' interest, the purchasers becoming embarrassed, or dissatisfied with their contract, were desirous
of surrendering it, but were persuaded by the vendor to remain, and they paid the interest for another year, 1859,
making in all about $28,000 of interest paid. The last payment of interest was made 31st January, 1860. After that, no
further payments were made, and on the 1st April, 1861, the
vendor filed a bill in chancery in one of the State courts
to prevent the threatened removal of the buildings from the
premises, and to get possession of the property. On the
23d August, 1862, a decree was entered to this effect, and
the vendor put into the possession. The decree restrained
the purchasers from removing the buildings, declaring
them to be fixtures; and for the default in the payment of
the purchase-money the plaintiff, the vendor, was put in
possession, and all the tenants were required to attorn to
him. It declared further, that he was entitled to the
estate and interest in the lots, the same as before the contract. And to remove any doubt in the title by reason of
the contract and the default in the payments, it declared
that the premises should be discharged from any incumbrance or charge in respect to the contract of sale; and that
the purchasers, or any one claiming through them, should
be forever debarred from having any estate, or interest, or
right of possession in the premises, having lost the same by
wilful default; and that the articles of agreement were to
be held, in relation to the title and possession, as of no effect
and void, as it respected the vendor and all claiming under
or through him.
In this state of facts, the purchasers filed, August 23, 1862,
a bill in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, to recover back the moneys paid upon the contract,
and also for the value of improvements made on the prernises ; the ground of the bill being that the contract had been
rescinded by the defendant.
In regard to the matterbefore mentioned of the purchasers'
having been desirous of surrendering, and of being persuaded by the vendor to stay, the bill alleged :

HIANSBROUGH V. PECK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the decree.
"That the contract became and was so in tolerably oppressive,
that in November, 1859, they proposed a relinquishment of the
same unless it should be modified or made less rigorous and exacting. That the vendor thereupon proposed to them that if
they would not abandon the same, but would pay certain taxes,
assessments, and charges, and interest then accrued, the whole
amounting to ten thousand dollars, within sixty days from the
first day of December, 1859, he would thereafter so accommodate and indulge them that they could carry on said contract,
and to this. end he would, until there should be a revival of trade
and business in Chicago, take the net income from the property
over and above taxes and insurance, in lieu of interest on the
purchase-money, until such revival of trade and business. That
your orators accepted said proposition, and in accordance with
his request, in order to comply with the proposition, sent an
agent from Kentucky to reside in Chicago aforesaid, to take
charge of the property and collect and get in the rents and pay
the same to said vendor, less the taxes and insurance. And also
your orators, on or about the 81st day of January, A. D. 1860,
paid said taxes, assessments, and other charges, and accrued interest, the whole amounting to ten thousand dollars as aforesaid,
in compliance with his said proposition, and thereafter were
ready and willing, and, from time to time, offered to pay the
vendor the net income fi'om the premises after deducting the
taxes and insurance as aforesaid; but he declined to abide by
his said proposition, and thereafter continued to enforce the said
contract of January 29th, 1857, and all its provisions, with the
most exacting rigor, notwithstanding there was no considerable increase of income from the property, nor a revival of trade
and business in Chicago."
Upon this case, which in substance was the one set forth,
the defendant in the case, the original vendor, demurred;
and the court below dismissed the bill.
Mr. Thomas Boyne, for the appellee and in support of the de.
cree:
I. The bill is not maintainable as a bill to recover back
money paid or laid out in part performance of a contract,

Dec. 1866.]

HANSBROUOH V. PECK.

501

Argument against the decree.

because the appellants are themselves in default, and refused
to perform their contract with the appellee.*
II. The court will not entertain jurisdiction of the bill,
because it seeks compensation in the nature of damages
only.t
III. The bill shows, on its face, that the same matters have
before been litigated between the same parties in a court of
competent jurisdiction, and that a former decree was rendered thereon forever determining the rights of the parties,
and in which the appellants might have litigated, if they did
not, and have had deeided all matters put in controversy by
them in this cause.]j
IV. Irrespective of all other questions in this cause, the
appellants being in default, and not only so, but refusing to
perform the contract, in fact repudiatingits terms, without any
pretence of fraud, mistake, or accident, to excuse them, they
are entitled to no relief whatever.ยง
Mr. Arrington, contra:
I. As to the return of the money, more than $28,000, paid
by the appellants to the vendor.
That the vendor should be allowed to keep this large sum.
and the land too, is revolting to conscience.
The equity of the appellants rests upon the definite rule of
law and justice, which prescribes that the parties, upon the
rescission of a contract, shall be replaced in stat quo ante.J
The vendor seeks to escape from this legal and equitable
* Haynes v. Hart, 42 Barbour, 58.

- Kempshall v. Stone, 5 Johnson's Chancery, 193; Hatch v. Cobb, 4 Id.
559; Morss v. Elmendorf, 11 Paige, 277; Mayne v. Griswold, 3 Sandford.
463.
1 Le Guer v. Gouverneur & Kemble 1 Johnson's Cases, 491, 2d ed., published in 1846; Marriot v. Hampton, 7 Term, 269; Hopkins v.Lee, 6 Wheaton, 110; Gray v. Gillilan, 15 Illinois, 456; Dalton v. Bentley, Id. 421.
Stinson v.Dousman, 20 Howard, 466; Kemp v. Humphreys, 13 Illinois,
573; Anderson v. Frye, 18 Id. 94; Chrisman v.Miller, 21 Id. 286; Vynkoop v. Cowing, Id 571; Milnor v.Willard, 34 Id. 41; Sanford v.Emory,
Id. 468.
11Hunt v.Silk, 5 East, 449 ; Norton v.Young, 3 Greenleaf, 30; Buchenau
Hornry, 12 Illinois, 338; Jennings v.Gage, 13 Id. 613.

HANSBROUGH, V. PECK,

[sup.. Ct.

Argument against the decree.

rule by interposing that monstrous provision of the contract
which authorized him, upon declaring a forfeiture of the
agreement, "to retain the money previously paid."
To this objection we answer
1. The provision for the retention of the payments made
previously to the forfeiture is strictly a penalty.* In fact,
even if the provision in q lestion had specified that the
money should be retained as liquidated damages, it would
be, in contemplation of law, a penalty, and nothing more.t
The rule of law and equity has ever been compensation,
and not forfeiture. And parties cannot be permitted to
annul a principle of such eternal justice by a mere stroke
of the pen.
That equity will relieve against penalties is an axiom as
old as the Court of Chancery.1 And it exists now in the
State from which this appeal comes. In Glover v. Fisher,ยง
the Supreme Court of Illinois say:
"it would be unconscionable to let the defendant keep the
land as well as the money already advanced."
2. The entire contract has been cancelled-first, by "the
election of the appellee; and secondly, by a judicial sentence, passed at his own instance.
Therefore, he cannot plead an agreement as a defence,
which he himself has caused to be declared void. He cannot treat the contract as dead, to the prejudice of the appellants, and yet as alive, to his own advantage.II
Hence, as the case stands, the vendor received this money
upon a consideration which has failed, and he must restore
it. The law of every civilized nation would compel him to
do so.
Sloman v. Walter, 2 Leading Cases in Equity, 907; Tayloe v. Sandiford, 7 Wheaton, 17.
j Kemble v. Farren, 6 Bingham, 141
: 2 Leading Cases in Equity, 907; Clark v.Lyons, 25 Illinois, 107; Hackett v. Alcock, 1 Call, 535.
S11 Illinois, 677.
2 Pothier, by Evans, 849.
v:Smith, 25 Georgia, 679.
Ford
r

Dec. 1866.]

HANSBEROUGH V. PECK.

503

Argument against the decree.

II. As to the money which the vendor obtained from the
appellants by promises of forbearance.
He received the money, in fact, under a new agreement,
resting in parol; one, therefore, void by the statute of frauds.
And hence, according to all the authorities, he must refund.*
III. As to the claim of the appellants to recover the value
of the improvements made by them, while in legal possession of the premises.
The appellants may be considered as bo??dfde purchasers,
having made valuable improvements, while in lawfuvl occupancy of the land; and as such, they have an equitable right
to compensation for the additional value conferred upon the
premises by their money and labor, the rents and profits being at the same time dedueted.t
But the claim stands on a stronger ground than that of
an ordinary bon.fide purchaser. For here, of course, the
improvements were erected with the appellee's knowledge
and consent, and under at agreement which he himself has
since rescinded. Hence, according to all the cases, since he
has chosen to rescind the contract, he must restore whatever
benefit he received under it.
Nor does the agreement itself contain any provision, that
upon forfeiture, the appellee may keep the improvements
without payment of their value.
The decree of the State court merely adjudged that the
improvements had become annexed to the freehold as "fixtures," and therefore could not be removed. It said nothing
as to the right of the appellants to claim the value of the
improvements. That question was not in issue; and hence,
could not be determined by the deeree.t
As to the claim of payment for the improvements, it is
clear that no remedy could be had at law.ยง
* Rice .v. Poet, 15 Johnson, 503; Burlingame v. Burlingame, 7 Cowen,
92; King v. Brown, 2 Hill, 485; Hellman v. Strauss, 2 Hilton, 11 and 12.
t Bright v. Boyd, 1 Story, 478; Inst. Lib. ii, Tit. 1, Lf.w 80; big. Lib.
vi, Tit. 1, Laws 88, 48.
: 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 504.
Anthonj' v. Lcftwich, 3 Randolph, 265.

504

HANSBROUGH V. PEC.S

[Sup. C

Reply for the decree.

IV. As to usury; a question which we raise:
It is obvious, on its face, that the limitation imposed by
the statute of Illinois, applies to suits for the threefold penalty, and to nothing else. But we are not seeking to recover
the penalty. We seek merely the money wrongfully exacted.
-Reply:
I. The doctrine that courts can relieve against penalties
or forfeitures does not apply in this case. Here ther6 is nothing to be relieved against. The rights of the parties are fixed
and determined by law; anid no compensation in damages
can be made by this court now to the appellee, in lieu of
benefits and rights which he has surrendered by releasing
the appellants on their liability under the contract, and relinquishing the advantages of his sale, upon finding that the
appellants were obstinate in their default and refusal to perform the contract and pay up the purchase-money.*
1I. As to the alleged promise to grant further delay or
forbearance. Confessedly the promise was never reduced to
any writing. The money was justly due and in arrear at
the time it was paid. It had no new consideration; it was
based solely upon the obligations of the contract. Surely
no citation of authority before this tribunal can be necessary to show that a promise so made was never of any binding force or effect.
III. As to usury; the question being raised. It is not alleged that the -contract was a contrivance to cover the usury
on any loan or discount of money. Besides which, the statutes
of Illinois provide that any action brought by bill in chancery to recover back more than the lawful amount of interest paid on any loan or forbearance of money, shall be
brought or filed within two years from the time when the right
thereto accrued.t
If no other objection were raised in bar of the claim made
Sanders v. Pope, 12 Vesey, 290; Skinner v. Dayton, 2 Johnson's Chan.r
eery, 535; Robinson v. Cropsey, 2 Edwards, 148.
f Revised Statutes, chap. liv.

Dec. 1866.]

HIANSBROUGII V. PEOK.

505

Opinion of the court.

to recover back the usurious interest, the lapse of time of
itself is sufficient.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be seen from the facts in this case that the plaintiffs were in default on account of the non-payment of the
interest fbr more than a year, and also that the principal fell
due a few days after the filing of the bill in chancery in the
State court, on account of this default in the payments. The
contract was a very stringent one. Time was, in terms,
made the essence of it, in respect to the payments; and,
further, in case of a default in any one payment, for thirty
days, the agreement was to be iull and void, and no longer
binding, at the option of the vendor, and all payments that
had been made were to be forfeited to him; and also in case
of default in any of the payments it was agreed that the contract, at the election of the vendor, was to be at an end, and
the purchasers deemed to be in possession as tenants at will,
liable for a rent equal to the amount of interest of the purchase-money.
The decree in chancery in the State court is relied on as
having rescinded the contract at the instance of the defendrant, by reason of which the plaintiffs have become entitled
to recover back the purchase-money paid, together with the
value of the improvements. The position is, that there is
no longer a subsisting contract, as an end has been put to it
by the vendor, and lie has in consequence resumed the possession, and claims to hold the estate the same as if no contract had ever existed, and that in such case the purchaser,
upon settled principles of law and equity, is at liberty to recover back the consideration paid and the value of the improvements. But the difficulty is, that the vendor has only
availed himself of a provision of the contract, which entitled
him to proceed in a court of chancery, by reason of the default of the purchaser in making his payments, to put an end
to it and be restored to the possession. It is a proceeding
in affirmance, not in rescission of it, by enforcing a remedy
expressly reserved in it. Indeed, without such clause or

11ANSBROUGH

V. PECK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

reservation, the remedy would have been equally available
to him. It is a right growing out of the default of the purchaser, as the law will not permit him both to withhold the
purchase-money and keep possession and enjoy the rents and
profits of the estate; nor will it subject the vendor to the
return of the purchase-money if he is obliged to go into a
court of equity to be restored to the possession.
In case of a default in the payments there are several remedics open to the vendor. He may sue on the contract and
recover judgment for the purchase-money, and take out execution against the property of the defendant, and among
other property, the lands sold; or he may bring ejectment,
and recover back the possession; but in that case, the purchaser, by going into a court of equity within a reasonable
time and offering payment of the purchase-money, together
with costs, is entitle[ to a performance of the contract; or
the vendor may go in the first instance into a court of
equity, as in the present case, and call on the purchaser to
come forward and pay the money due, or be forever thereafter foreclosed from setting up any claim against the estate.
In these contracts for the sale of real estate the vendor holds
the legal title as a security for the payment of the purchasemoney, and in case of a persistent default, his better remedy, and under some circumstances his only safe remedy, is
to institute proceedings in the proper court to foreclose the
equity of the purchaser where partial payments or valuable
improvements have been made. The court will usually give
him a day, if he desires it, to raise the money, longer or
shorter, depending on the particular circumstances of the
case, and to perform his part of the agreement.
This mode of selling real estate in the United States is a
very. common and favorite one, and the principles governing
the contract, both in law and equity, are more fully and perfectly settled than in England or any other country. The
books of reports are full of cases arising out of it, and every
phase of the litigation repeatedly considered and adjudged.
And no rule in respect to the contract is better settled than
this: That the party who has advanced money, or done an

Dec, 1866.]

IDANSBROUGt

V. PECK.

Opinion of the court.

act in part.performance of the agreement, aiid then stops
short and refuses to proceed to its ultimate coniclusion, the
other party being ready and willing to proceed and fulfil all
his stipulations according to the contract, will not be permitted to recover back what has thus been advanced or done:*
The same doctrine has been repeatedly applied by the
courts of Illinois, the State in which this case arose.t
This principle would of itself have defeated the plaintiffs
in this suit, independently of the decree foreclosing their
equity in the contract.
It appears in the case that the parties agreed upon the rate
of ten per cent. interest for the forbearance of the purchase-.
money unpaid, when, at the time, as is admitted, it was only
six per centum. But this law did not invalidate the contract.
It authorized the party to recover of the party taking usury
threefold the amount above the legal rate, at any time
within two years after the right of action accrued. This bill
was filed the 23d August, 1862. The last payment of interest was made 31st January, 1860. More than two years,
therefbre, had elapsed before the suit was brought.
We should add, it is not admitted by the defendant that
this arrangement had the effect to make the contract usurious; and would not, according to the case of Beete v. Bidgood,T if the excess of interest stipulated for was in fact a
part of the purchase-money.
After the default of the purchasers, and when they we'e
disposed to surrender the contract, the vendor proposed to
them, if they would abandon the idea, and pay up the taxes
in arrears and interest that had accrued, he would indulge
them, and to that end, and until a revival of business in Chicago, he would be satisfied with the net income from the
property over and above the taxes and insurance; and it is
Green v. Green, 9 Cowen, 46; Ketchum v. Evertson, 13 Johnson, 364,

Spencer, J.; Leonard v. Morgan, 6 Gray, 412; Haynes v. Hart, 42 Barbour, 58.
t Chrisman v.Miller, 21 Illinois,. 236,,and other cases referred to-in the
argument.
4 7 Barnwo 1 & Cresswell, 458.

H-ANSBROUGH! V.

P:ECK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

averred that they agreed to the propositions and paid the
taxes and interest, but that the vendor declined to carry out
the agreement and enforced the contract, though there had
not been any considerable increase of income from the property or revival of trade and business in Chicago. This provisional arrangement is very loosely stated in the bill, but is,
of course, admitted by the demurrer. It admits the revival
of business, to some extent, before the enforcement of the
contract. There is great difficulty, however, in determining
the extent of increase contemplated by the arrangement from
the statement in the bill. It was entered into in November,
1859, and this suit was not instituted till August, 1862, some
two years and nine months afterwards.
But the true answer to this part of the case is, that the arrangement was not in writing, nor any consideration passing
'between the parties that could give validity to it. The promise by the purchasers was but in affirmation of what they
were bound to perform by their written agreement, and all
that was done was but in fulfilment of it.
We have thus gone carefully over the case as presented,
and considered every ground set up on the part of The plaintiffs for the relief prayed for; but, with every disposition to
temper the sternness of the law as applicable to them, we
are compelled to say that, according to the settled principles
both of law and equity, a case for relief has not been established.
The truth of the case is, that these plaintiffs improvidently
entered into a purchase beyond their means, and, doubtless,
relied very much upon the rise of the value of the estate,
and of tie income, to meet the payments and expenditures
laid out upon it. Their anticipations failed them, and a
heavy debt. was the consequence, beyond their ability to
meet. Of the $93,000 purchase-money, they have raid only
$10,000. Of interest, some $28,000. They expended for
improvements $18,000. There still remained due against
them $83,000 purchase-money and over $20,000 interest, at
the time the vendor went into possession. The plaintiffs

Dec. 1866.]

INSURANCE COMPA.NY V.

CHASE.

509

Statement of the case.

themselves had been in the possession and enjoyment of the
premises for a period exceeding that for which the interest
on the purchase-money had been paid, which, at least, must
be regarded as an equivalent for the money thus paid.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. CHASE.

One of five trustees of a church edifice, being the agent of an Insurance
Company, accepted a risk in it from another of the trustees to whom
the church was indebted, the policy being in the individual name of
the insuring trustee, with a proviso that in case of loss the amount
should be paid to a creditor of him the insuring trustee, to whom, however, the church was not indebted. The insuring trustee paid the premiums out of his own funds-but on account of the parish, fnd with the
assent of the trustees; and the fact of two previous insu.rances in other
companies, where the insurance was made in the name of the proprietors
of the church generally, was recited in this policy made in the individual name of the one trustee. A loss having occurredKeld, that the creditor of the insuring trustee was entitled to recover on
the policy; the case showing that the insurance in the form in which it
was made, was made with the assent of all the trustees, and it being a
matter immaterial to the company (supposing the risk to be the same)
whether the person appointed by the insuring trustee to receive the
money retained it to his own use or paid it to the trustees.

the Circuit Court for the District of Maine.
This controversy arose on a policy of insurance. The undrwriter admitted the loss by fire, but denied the obligation
to pay, chiefly because the party insured, had not an insurable interest in the property which was destroyed.
The case was this: William Chase, Sewall Chase, J. F.
Day, John Yeaton, and J. W. Munger were the trustees of
the Congregational Church on Congress Street, in Portland,
and held the legal title to it, in trust for the society. Munger, one of the trustees, was also the agent at Portland of
two insurance companies c:eated by the laws of Massachusetts,-the Howard and the Springfield. On the 25th of
N vember. 1859., he took fire risks for each company to the
ERROR to

