Dec. 1866.]

823

GARRISON' V. CASS COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

appeal is allowance, citation to the appellees, or equivalent
notice or, waiver, and the bringing up of the record at the
next term of this court. Security for prosecution should be
taken by the judge on signing the citation; but if this duty
be omitted or defectively performed, a remedy cain be applied
here on motion.
In the present case a bond, admitted to be sufficient for
costs of prosecution, whether given in time to make appeal
operate as a supersedoas or not, was filed in the court below
before removal to this court.
The motion to dismiss the appeal must therefore be
DENIED.

GARRISON V. CASS COUNTY.
Appeal dismissed for want of jurisdiction, where the decree was rendered
13th June, 1861, but no appeal was'prayed for or allowed until June
Term, 1865, when, on motion of the defendants below, an appeal was
allowed nunclro tunc, as of 13th June, 1861, there having been no citation to the appellees, and the record not having been broug!it up at the
next term.
MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Nebraska.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree in this case was rendered on the 13th June,
1861. No appeal was prayed or' allowed until the June
Term, 1865. At that ter, on motion of the defendants
below, an appeal was allowed nunc pro lune, as of 13th June,
1861.
There is nothing in the record which warranted the making of this order;. nor, if it could have'been lawfully made,
would it avail the defendant, for there was no citation to the
appellees, and the record was not brought up at the next
term of this court.

ALVISO V. UNITED STATES.

824

[Sup., Ct.

Opinion of the court.

At most, it can only be. regarded as an allowance of an
appeal at the June Term, 1865, and no citation appears to
have been issued since to the appellees, nor was there any
equivalent notice, nor has there been any waiver.
The appeal must therefore be
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

ALVISO V.

UNITED STATES.

A citation to the adverse party, with due return or waiver by general aplearance, or otherwise, is indispensable to jurisdiction on appeal.
ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the District Court
for Northern California, the GHIEF JUSTICE stated the
ease and gave the opinion of the court.
The final decree in the District Court was rendered on
the 8th September, 1863, and an appeal was allowed, on
motion of the claimant, on the 18th November, 1863. Upon
this appeal no action was taken by the appellarits. On the
23d February, 1864, an appeal was again allowed, and the
record was brought to this court and filed November 11,
1864.
This was in time, but no citation was issued to the adverse party, and there is nothing to show any waiver; and a
citation, with due return, or waiver by general appearance
or otherwise, is indispensable to jurisdiction on appeal.*

The writ, therefore, must be
DISMISSED.

Bacon v. Hart,

Black, 38; Castro v. United States, 8 Wallace, 49.

