Dec.

1866.]

WOLCOTT V. DES MOINES CO.

681

Statement of the case.

WOLCOTT V. DES MOINES COMPANY.
The proviso in the act of Congress of May 15, 1856 (11 Stat. at Large, 9),
making a grant of lands to the State of Iowa, in alternate sections, to
aid in the construction of certain railroads in said State, by which proviso it was provided "That any and all lands heretofore reserved to
the United States, by any act of Congress or in any other manner by
competent authority,for the purloose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or any'other object whatsoever, be, and the same are hereby
reserved to the United States from the operation of this act,I'-operated,
in connection with certain subsequent legislation, to reserve for the pur-

pose of aid in the improvement in the navigation of the Des Moines
River, an equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the public lands on,
and within five miles of, the said river, between the ' Raccoon Fork,
so called, and the northern boundary of the State.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
In August, 1846, Congress granted to the then Territory,
and now State, of Iowa-

"For the purpose of aiding said Territory to improve the navigation of the Des Moines River from its mouth to the Raccoon Fork,
so called, in said Territory, one equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the public lands, in a strip five miles in width on each
side of said river,"
The Des Moines River, to assist the improvement of whose
navigation this grant was made, rises in the very north part
of the State, somewhat to the west of the middle line of the
northern boundary. Flowing to the southeast, it traverses
the entire commonwealth of Iowa, and falls into the Mississippi in the southeast corner of the State. [See the sketch
on p. 682.]
Somewhere near the middle of the State, at Des Moines
City, it receives, as a tributary, a stream called the Raccoon
Fork. It thus happens that about one half the river is above
the point where this Fork enters, and one half below. Each
half traverses, of course, a region of great extent and value.
The plraseology of the above-quoted grant of Congress,

WOLCOTT V. DES MOINES Co.

[
[Sup.
Ct,

Statement of the case.

as the result proved, contained the germs of a controvdrsy;
the point in issue being, whether Congress meant to grant to
the State land on the Des Moines River above the point where
the Raccoon Fork enters, as well as the land below this point,
or whether it meant to grant only land below. On the one
hand, the grant was for the purpose of improving the navigation of the river "from its mouth TO the Raccoon Forl." On
the other, the grant was of one equal moiety, &c., "on each
side of the said river."

• In August, 1859, the Des Moines Navigation Company, to
which the State had conveyed the land in May, 1858, conveyed to one Wolcott a half section of one of the alternate
sections, within five miles of the river, &c., above the Fork,
and warranted the title.
Soon afterwards this court decided, in another case, that,.
on a true construction of the grant of the 8th of August,
1846, above mentioned, it did not include land above the.
point where the Raccoon Fork entered.

Dec. 1866.]

WOLCOTT V. IDES MOINES CO.
Opinion of the court.

Wolcott now sued the Navigation Company for breach of
covenant, alleging, in his declaration, that the title to the
tract sold by the company to him had failed. This allegation the company denied; setting up that whatever might be
the conclusion on a, construction of the mere act of original grant (8th August, 1844), this case /rested on another
basis, to wit, on the basis of a great Variety of action by different departments of the government having authority in
the matter, and on acts of Congress subsequent to that of
the grant.
This great variety of action, and the other acts of Congress, will be found below, in the preliminary part of the
opinion of this court.
The court below thought that the title had not failed; and
whether it had or not, was now the question here.
Mr. Gilbert, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. Litehfield and
Traey, for the defendant in error; Messrs. Trumbull, Cook, and
Smith, for parties allowed to intervene.
Mr. Justice NELSON lelivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants conveyed by deed-poll to the plaintiff, on
the 1st August, 1859, the east half of section 17, township
88, range 27, situate in Webster County, State of Iowa, containing three hundred '.and twenty acres, for the consideration of $3040, and warranted the title. It is charged in the
declaration that the title has failed, which is denied on the
part of the defendants. This presents the main issue in the
case.
On the 8th August, 1846, Congress passed an act by which
they granted to the Territory of Iowa, for the' purpose of aid
in the improvement of the navigation of the Des Moines
River, from its mouth to the Raccoon Fork, in said Territory, an equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the public
lands in a strip of five miles in width on each side of said
river, to be selected within said Territory by an agent of the
governor, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
T easury of the United States.

WOLCOTT v.

DES MOINES CO.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The second section provided that the lands so granted
should not be sold or conveyed by the Territory, nor by any
State to be formed out of it, except as the improvements
progressed; that is, sales might be made so as to produce
the sum of thirty thousand dollars, and then cease, until the
governor or State, as the case might be, should certif'y the
fact to the President of the United States that one half of
this sum had been expended on said improvements, when
sales again might be made of the remaining lands sufficient
to replace this amount; and the sales were thus to progress
as the proceeds were expended, and the expenditure so certified to the President. Agents were appointed by the governor, who selected the sections designated by odd numbers,
throughout the whole extent of the grant, which, as claimed,
extended from the mouth of the river to the northern boundary of the State.
The lot in question is one of the sections thus selected and
approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, and duly certified by the governor of the State to the President, according
to the second section of the act, and was sold and conveyed,
among other parcels of land, by the State to the defendants.
The section of land of which the lot in question is a part was
situated above the Raccoon Fork.
Some year and a half after the passage of this act a
question arose before the commissioner of the land office
whether the grant of the odd sections within the five miles
extended above this Fork. He determined that it did, and
that it extended throughout the whole line of the river
within the limits of Iowa. It appears, however, that he
afterwards changed his opinion, and on the 19th June, 1848,
a proclamation was issued by the President, countersigned
by him, ordering a sale of some of these odd sections,
among other lands lying above the Fork, and which was to
take place in the following October. On the attention of
the Secretary of the Treasury being called to the subject,
he, after an examination of the act, determined that, upon
a true construction of it, the grant extended above the Raccoon Ferk, and directed that the odd section should be re.

Dec. 1866.]

WOLCOTT V. DES MOINES CO.
Opinion of the court.

served from the sale, which was done accordingly, and the
State of Iowa duly notified. This was on the 16th June,
1849. On the 6th April, 1850, the Secretary of the Interior,
whose department had in the meantime been established,
and to which the isupervision and control of the General
Land Office had been assigned, reversed tie previous decision of the Secretary of the Treasury, and determined that
the grant did not extend beyond the Raccoon Fork. But he
directed that the lands should be reserved from sale which
were embraced within the State's selections. The question
was then brought before the President, and was referred by
him to the Attorney-General, who differed with the Secretary
of the Interior, and concurred with the Secretary of the Treasury. But before the promulgation of this decision the President (Taylor) died, and a new cabinet coming in-and
among others, a new Attorney-General-he overruled the decision of his predecessor, and affirmed that of the Secretary
of the Interior. The case was then brought before the new
President and cabinet, and the result is stated by the then
Secretary of the Interior, under date of October 29th, 1851,
which was "that in view of the great conflict of opinion
among the executive officers of the government, and also in
view of the opinions of several eminent jurists which have
been presented to me in favor of the construction contended
for by the State, I am willing to recognize the claim of the
State, and to approve of the selections, without prejudice to
the rights, if any there be, of other parties." Under this
arrangement, the Secretary of the Interior approved of the
odd sections above the Fork as certified, according to the act
of Congress, till, in December, 1853, the number of acres
amounted to over 271,572, On the 21st March, 1856, the
commissioner of the land office again decided that the grant
was limited to the Raccoon Fork, and the question was again
referred to the Attorney-General, who advised the Secretary
of the Interior to acquiesce in the views of his predecessor
(a change having taken place as to the incumbent), and to
continue the approval of the lands as certified to him under
the law which was done accordingly. In the meantime, the

WOLCOTT V. DES MOINES Co.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

improvement of the Des Moines River had been carried on
by the State, and by the Des Moines Navigation and Rail.
road Company, who, on the 9th June, 1854, had entered
into an engagement with the State to finish the improvements, as contemplated by the act of Congress, and to expend for that purpose some $1,300,000.
The question as to the true construction of this grant of
8th August, 1846, and in respect to which such great diversity of opinion existed among the executive officers of the
government, came before this court, and was decided at the
December Term, 1859-60. The court held that it was limited
to the Raccoon Fork, and did not extend above it.*
Whereupon, on the 2d March, 1861, Congress passed a
joint resolution providing that "all the title which the
United States still retain in the tracts of land along the Des
Moines River, and above the Raccoon Fork thereof, in the
State of Iowa, which have been certified to said. State improperly by the Department of the Interior, as part of the
grant by act of Congress approved August 8th, 1846, and
which is now held by bona fide purchasers under the State
of Iowa, be, and the same is hereby relinquished to the
State."
And, on the 12th July, 1862, Congress enacted
"that the grant of lands to the then Territory of Iowa for
the improvement of the Des Moines River by the 'act of
August 8th, 1846, is hereby extended so a.. to include the
alternate sections (designated by odd numbers) lying within
five miles of said river, between the Raccoon Fork and the
northern boundary of said State; such lands are to be held
and applied in accordance with the provisions of the original
grant, except that the consent of Congress is hereby given
to the application of a portion thereof to aid in the construction of the Keokuk, Fort Des Moines, and Minnesota Railroad, in accordance with the provisions of the act of the
general assemblyof the State of Iowa, approved March 22,
1858."
If the ease stopped here it would be very clear that the
Dubua -e and Pacific Railroad Company v. Litchfield, 23 Howard, 66

Dec. 1866.]

WOLCOTT V. DES MOINES CO.
Opinion of the court.

plaintiff could not recover; for, although.the State possessed
no title to the lot in dispute at the -time of tho conveyance
to the Des Moines' Navigation and Railroad Company, yet,
having an after-acquired title by the act'-of Congress, it would
enure to the benefit of the grantees, and so in respect to
their conveyance to the plaintiff. This is in accordance with
the laws of the State of Iowa.
But another act of Congress is relied on by the plaintiff,
passed May 15, 186, 'as showing iliat the United States had
already parted with the lands, of which the lot in question
is a part, previous to this act of 12th July, 1862. It becomes
necessary, therefore, to examine this act. It grants to the
State of Iowa; for the purpose of aiding in the construction
of certain railroads specified, every alternate section of land
(designated by odd numbers), for six sections in width on
each side of said roads, with the following proviso: " That
any and'all lands heretofore reserved to the United States
by any act of Congress, or in any othe manner by competent
authority,for the purpose of aiding in any objects of internal improvements, or for any purpose whatsoever, be, and the same is
hereby reserved from the operation of this act, except so far
as it may be found necessary to'locate the routes of-the said
rail roads through such reserved lands, in which case the
right of way shall be granted subject to the approval of the
.resident."
This grant to the State for the benefit of the
railroads, it is admitted, covers the tract within which the
lot in question is situate, unless excluded by this proviso.
The question turns upon the construction of the proviso.
And in reading it in connection with the act of 1846, granting lands to the State of Iowa for the improvement of the
Des Moines River, and in connection with the serious and
.prolonged conflict of opinion 'that arose among the executive officers of the government, extending over a period of
some eight years, and Which related to the title above the
Raccoon Fork, in respect to which this act of 1856 was dealing in the grant for the benefit of the railroads, we think it
difficult to resist the conclusion that Congress, in the passage
of the proviso, had specially in their minds this previous

WOLCOTT v. DEs MOINES Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of tho court.

grant, and conflict of opinion concerning it, and intended
to reserve the lands for future disposition, if the title under
The first grant should turn out to be defective. The decision
of this court had not then taken place, though the litigation
was probably pending in the court below, in the district of
Iowa. The words of the proviso point almost directly to
this grant, and to the dispute arising out of it among the
public authorities: "All lands heretofbre reserved," &c., "by
any act of Congress, or in any other manner by competent
authority, for the purpose of aiding in any objects of internal improvements," &c. These improvements of the Des
Moines River were then in progress. Now, if it had turned
out that the true construction of the act carried the grant
above the Raccoon Fork, then the lands would have been
reserved by act of Congress, and no further legislation necessary. But, not satisfied with this, as if to provide for any
result in respect to the title to them, if reserved in any other
manner by competent authority, for the object of internal
improvements, theti the enacting clause should not operate
to carry them under the niew grant.
It has been argued that these lands had not been reserved
by competent authority, and hence that the reservation was
,nugatory. As we have seen, they were reserved from sale
for the special purpose of aiding in the improvement of the
Des Moines River-first, by the Secretary of the Treasury,
when the Land Department was under his supervision and
control, and again by the Secretary of the Interior, after the
establishment of this department, to which the duties were
assigned, and afterwards contin ied by this department under
instructions from the President and cabinet. Besides, if this
power was not competent, which we think it was ever since
the establishment of the Land Department, and which has
been exercised down to the present time, thegrant of 8th
August, 1846, carried along with it, by necessary implication, not only the power, but the duty, of the Land Office to
reserve from sale the lands embraced in the grant. Otherwise its Object might be utterly defbated. Hence, immediately upon a grant being made by Congress for any of

Dec. 1866.]

N ASHI

v. TOWNE,

Syllabus.

these public purposes to a State, notice is given by the commission-er of the land office to the registers and receivers to
stop all sales, either public or by private entry. Such notice was given the same day the grant was made, in 1856,
for the benefit of these railroads. That there was a dispute
existing as to the extent of the grant of 1846 in no way
affects the question. The serious conflict of opinion among
the public authorities on the subject made it the duty of the
land officers to withhold the sales and reserve them to the
United States till it was ultimately disposed of.
It should be stated, also, in connection with this proviso,
that the improvements of this river were in progress at the
time of the passage of the act of 1856, and had been for
years, but were suspended soon after, on account of the refusal of the Land Department to certify any more sections
under the act of 1846; and, as appears from the certificate
of the governor of Iowa, the sum of $332,634.04 had already
been expended by these defendants under their contract.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED

NOTE.

At the same time, with the preceding case, was adjudged
Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company v. Burr, which
NELSON, S., delivering the judgment of the court, said, "involved the same questions" decided in it. He referred to the
opinion there given as decisive of them. The judgment was reversed with a venire de novo.

NASH V.

TowNE.

1. Courts, in the construction of contracts, look to the language employed,
the subject-matter, and the surrounding circumstances; and may avail
themselves of the same light which the parties enjoyed when the contract was executed. They are, accordingly, entitled to place themselves
in the same situation as the parties who made the contract, in order that

they may view the circumstances as those parties viewed them, and so
judge of the meaning of the words and of the correct application of
the language to the things described. Hence, where flour intended to
VOL. v,.-

44

