Dec. 1866.]

CfTY OF GALENA V. AMy.
Statement of the case.

CITY OF GALENA v. AMY.
1. Where an act, amiending a city charter, says that the city council "may,
if it believe that the public good, and the best interests of the city require"'
it, levy a tax to pay its funded debt, a mandamus will liej at the tuit of a
judgment creditor, to make it levy a tax, if it does not. The Supervisors, d-e., v. United States (4 Wallace, 435), approved.
2. Where a city has a power, such as the one above given, it is no return
to an alternative mandamus, commanding it to lay a special tax bf one
per cent. to pay the principal, and one per cent. to pay the interest and
costs of judgments obtained against it for non-payment of its funded
debt, or show cause, &e., that it did, in one year, levy such a tax, and
that the funds raised by it are wholly exhausted.
Nor is it an argument against -the issuing of a peremptory mandamus,
that the city owes a large amount of other debts, and that if these taxes
are collected, other creditors will be entitled to share in the distribution
of the p)oceeds.
3. The acts 6f the General Assembly of Illinois passed June 80th, 1857, and
February 6th, 1865, amendatory of the act of June 21st, 1852, giving by
its fourth section the power to tax as quoted in the first paragraph above,
do not repeal that fourth section.
THE fourth section of d statute of Illinois, passed June
21, 1852, and incorporating the city of Galena, declares that
the'city council " may,, ifthe said city council believe that the
public good and the best interests of the city require," annually
collect a tax, not exceeding one per cent. on a dollar on the
assessed value of all estate taxable in the city, in addition to
all other taxes; the fund to be kept separate, and annually,
on the 1st of January, paid over, pro rata, upon the funded
indebtedness of the city. " This section to continue and be
in force unt-il the whole amount of the city's indebtedness,
with the interest to acc'ue thereon, is fully paid."

With this provision in force, the city issued a large amount

of bonds to enable it to make various public improvements.
One Amy having become possessed of a number of them,
and the interest being unpaid, he brought suit and obtained
judgment against the city upon them in the Circuit Court
for Northern Illinois. The validity of the bonds was not.
drawn in question. The judgments being wholly unsatisfled, and the city having no property liable to execution,
VOL V.

45

CITY OF GALENA' V.

AmY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Amy demanded of the mayor and aldermen that they should
levy a tax to pay principal, interest, and costs of the judgment. They refused to do so. He then filed an information in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois,
for a mandamus. He set forth the above quoted fourth section of the act of June 21st, 1852, empowering the city
council to-levy a specific tax of one per cent. to pay the interest on its funded debt, and that this tax 'had not been
levied. That, by an act of June 80th, 1857, the city coUncil
was authorized to levy, 1st, a tax of one per cent. for general
and contingent expenses; 2d, five mills for school purposes;
3d, one per cent. to pay interest on public debt; 4th, an unlimited tax for market halls, &c., and other public improvements. That none of the taxes to which the plaintiff, as a
bond creditor, has a right, had been levied and applied to
his principal or interest after a period named, long past.
And he prayed the court to issue a mandamus, commanding
the city council and their successors in office, at their next
regular term, to levy a special tax upon the taxable property
of the city of one per cent. to pay the principal, and one
per cent. to pay the interest and costs of the judgmnents;
"and to pay the same out of the proceeds, and to continue
to levy a like amount for each succeeding year until said
judgments, interests, and costs are wholly paid."
The city made a return, that in 1865 they levied a tax of
one per cent. to pay interest on public debt, and that it had
been applied to a proper and lawful purpose.
They set up in bar of the plaintiff's right, that the only
powers to tax which they had were by the acts of June 30th,
1857, already mentioned, and an act of February, 1865,
amendatory of the act of 1852. Sections of these last two
acts relating to taxation, and stating for what purposes taxes
might be laid, were set forth. In the act of 1857 were
these:
"Section 1. The city council shall have power, by ordinance,
to levy and coilect annual taxes not exceeding one per cent. on
the dollar on the assessed value of all real and personal estate

Dec. 1866.]

CITY

OF

GALENA V. AMY.

70.7

Statement of the case.

and property within the city, &c., made taxable by the law of
the State for State purposes, to defray the general and contingent
expenes of the city, not herein otherwise provided for; which
taxes shall constitute the general fund.
"Section 3.,To levy' and collect taxes not exceeding one per
cent. on the'dollar per annum on all property subject to taxa
tion, to meet the interest accruing on the debt of the city."
In the act of 1865 the following:
"Section 12. The city council shall levy and collect a tax of
one .per cent. on the dollar per annum on all property subject to
taxation; which tax, when collected, shall be set apart for the
sole and exclusive purpose of paying the interest upon the public debt of the city, whilst the same is in existence."
The latter act, the act of 1865, also contained the section
set forth in the return.
"Section 19. All acts, or parts thereof, which conflict with the
provisions of this act are also repealed; but nothing in this act
shall be so construed as to deprive the city council of said city
of any power or authority conferred upon the samre by the act
incorporating the city, and the various acts amendatory thereof,

except so far as such powers and authority have been expressly
modified or repealed by this act or the acts heretofore mentioned."
The return further set forth that the principal of the debt
was $142,272, and the assessed value of the property, real
and personal, within the city jurisdiction, was $740,000, and
that the annhal interest upon the debt now exceeded one per
cent. upon the assessed value of the property in the city liable to taxation. It added that the councils intelded, ini good
faith towards the city and its creditors (the relator included),
to levy all the taxes which it had a right by law to levy. But
that the General Assembly having, by the acts aforesaid,
placed a limit upon the power of taxation, the councils were
wholly unable to raise money for the payment of the judg
ments, excepting by means of proper ordinances passed
under and in pursuance of section- one of the act of Jan-

708

CITY OF GALENA V. AMY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

uary 80, 1857 (above quoted), and that by that section
moneys raised were first to be applied to the payment
of the ordinary and contingent expenses of the city, and
unless so applied that the government of the city could not
be administered.
To this answer the relator demurred. The court sustained
the demurrer; and the respondents electing to stand by the
return, it was ordered that a peremptory mandamus should
issue. The respondents now brought the case before this
court for review.
Mr. Jewelt, for the city, plaintiff in error; Mr. Grant, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court,
having first stated the case.
Most of the legal principles which are involved in this
case, and which must gover'n its determination, have been
settled in other cases decided at this term.
Was there any error in the rulings of the Circuit Court?
The fourth section of the act of 1852 declares that the city
council, if they believe the public good and the best interests of the city require it, may levy and collect an annual
tax of not exceeding one per cent., and that the amount
thus collected shall be kept separate; and that annually, on
the 1st of January, it shall be paid over pro rata upon the
funded debt of the city, that may be presented by the holders; and that this section shall continue in force until the
principal and interest of the indebtedness is fully paid.
This power has not been exercised by the city authorities,
and they have made no other provision for liquidating the
debts due to the relator. They have no other means of payment, in possession or prospect. Under such circumstances,
the discretion thus given cannot, consistently with the rules
of law, be resolved in the negative.
The rights of the creditor and the ends of justice demand
that it should be exercised in favor of affirmative action, and
the law requires it. In such cases the power is in the nature
of a trust for his benefit, and it was the plain duty of the

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OF GALENA V. AMY.

709

Opinion of the court.

court below to give him the remedy for which he asked, by
awarding a peremptory writ to compel the imposition of the
tax, as was done.
These principles were fully considered in The Supervisors
of -Rock Island County v. The State Bank, of this term,* and
it is sufficient to refer to that case for a fuller exposition of
our views upon the subject.
This section of the act of 1852 is not repealed by either
the act of 1857 or the act of 1865. There is no express repeal, and we think there is none by implication. The latter
is not favored in the law. Repeal by implication, when the
prior and the later act can consistently stand together, is
never admitted.t Here there is no irreconcilable conflict, if
indeed there be any. This point seems not to be relied upon
by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error.
It is conceded that this act was in force when the bonds in
question were issued. If so, it was beyond the power of the
legislature to repeal it, so far as it concerns the bonds in question, unless some other adequate remedy were substituted in
its place.1
The third section of the act of 1857 and the twelfth section of the act of 1865 each authorizes the collection of one
per cent., to be applied to the payment of the interest upon
the city debt. The latter re-enacts the fornier. The efficacy
of this provision is not denied. The order of the Circuit
Court with respect to this tax was correct.
The return of the respondents showed no sufficient reason
why a peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue, as
was ordered. The demurrer of the relator was properly
sustained.
It is insisted that the city owes a large amount of other
debts, and that if these taxes are collected the other creditors will be entitled to share in the distribution of the proceeds.
It is not competent for the respondents to make this objection. When any other creditor complains in a proper pro.
4 Wallace, 435.
t McCool v. Smith, 1 Black, 471.
• Van Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535.

BATES

v.

B.ROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ceeding, and asks that the funds be marshalled, it will be
time enough to consider the suhject.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error has called our attention, with emphasis and eloquence, to the diminished resources of the city, and the disproportionate magnitude of
its debt. Much as personally we may regret such a state of
things, we can give no weight to considerations of this character, when placed in the scale as a counterpoise to the contract, the law, the legal rights of the creditor, and our duty
to enforce them. Such securities occupy the same ground
in this court as all others which are brought before us.
When clothed with legal validity, it is our purpose to sustain them, and to give to their holders the benefit of all the
remedies to which the law entitles them. When invalid, we
have not hesitated and shall not hesitate to say so. But we
cannot recognize a distinction, unknown to the law, between
this and any other class of obligations we may be called upon
to enforce.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

BATES V. BROWN.
The rule of the common law, commonly called "the rule of shifting inheritance," is not in force in Illinois.

This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Kinzie Bates, the plaintiff in error, brought an action of
ejeetment in that court against Brown, the defendant in
error, to recover certain premises. The cause was submitted
upon an agreed statement of facts, which, so far as it was
necessary to consider them, were as follows:
1. On the 29th of September, 1830, Alexander Woleott
bought of the State of Illinois certain landg, of which those
in controversy were a part. At the time of the transaction

