808

[Sup. Ct

LEE V. DODGE.
Statement of the case.

of this rule is sought, it must appear so clea'r as to be beyoud doubt that the error did not and could not have prejudiced the party's rights. In the case before us this is not
so clear. The plaintiff, by reason of the error of the court,
had never been permitted to 'introduce the first step in.
the proof of her case. She had no interest in offering to
show anything which might avoid the force of the deed read
by defendants. If she could have proved it a fbrgery it
would have done her no good in this suit, because she had
failed, under the erroneous ruling of the court, to make out
a prima facie case for herself. We cannot assume here that
she might not have successfully avoided the effect of that
deed, if the court had given her a standing in the case
which would have made it avail her to do so.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be REand the case remanded, with directions to award

VERSED,

A

NEW TRIAL.

LEE v. iDODGE.
in this case, which was a controversy of fact chiefly, a decree of conveyance
of land alleged. to have been agreed, by correspondence, to be conveyed,
was refused; the court being compelled, from all the circumstances in

proof, to think that the only witness who testified that P letter making
a proposition of sale had been answered, accepting it, labored under a
mistake.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The appellants were the heirs-at-law of G. W. Lee, and,
on the strength of the title which they had inherited from
him, had obtained in the Circuit Cout just named, a judgment in ejectment against Dodge afid others for a part of
lot 4, block 53, of the city of Chicago. The defendants in
that action set up a conveyance from Lee to Lois Cogswell,
and showed by sundry mesne conveyances, they were in pos-

Dec. 1864.]

LEH

v. DODGE.

Statement of the case.

session of the lot under that deed. It was, however, proved
on the trial, that the deed to Lois Cogswell was left by Lee
at his death among his papers, signed and acknowledged,
but with a blank space where the name of the grantee should
be; and that this was filled up with the name of Lois Cogswell, and delivery of the instrument made without authority,
after G. W. Lee's death, by B. T. Lee, his administrator.
As both parties claimed title under Lee, the plaintiffs of
course had a verdict and judgment, and thereupon the defondants in that suit filed a bill in the same court for an injunction, and for a conveyance of the legal title. The ease
was thus :
On the 4th May, 1836, Lee, who resided in the West, and
was about to start on a tour from New York to Illinois,
entered into a written agreement with Jonathan Cogswell,
Lois Cogswell (sister to Jonathan), and F. S. Kinney, Esq.
(a member of the bar), by which lie agreed to invest in real
estate ten thousand dollars furnished by the other three parties to the contract, in the proportion of $5000 by Jonathan
Cogswell, $3000 by Lois Cogswell, and $2000 by Kinney.
Lee agreed to pay to each of his partners one-half the sum
advanced, with interest, within three years, and to give his
personal attention to the business. The profits and losses
were to be shared, one-half by him and the other half by the
others. He was at liberty to make purchases to the amount
of $40,000 partly on credit. The titles were in the first place
to be taken in Lee's name, and he was afterwards to make
such conveyances as the state of the venture required.
Lee invested the ten thousand dollars as agreed, getting
among other purchases six canal lots in Chicago, which were
bought largely on credit. He also purchased for himself
about the same time and in the same manner, lot 4, block
53, which was also a canal lot. He seems to have been engaged in various speculations about that time, and shortly
after became much indebted and embarrassed. Not being
able to pay his partners the half the money they had invested,
when the three years elapsed, he confessed to J. Cogswell,
for their joint benefit, a judgment for the $5000 and interest,

LEH v. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Towards the close of 1841 he availed himself of a privilege
allowed by the statute of Illinois, and consolidated his payments on the canal lots;,that is to say, he concentrated al'
the paymentb which he had made on six lots, upon two and
part of another, and thereby paid in full and obtained clear
title for these, and relinquished his claim to the others. In
doing this he made his own lot 4, block 53, one of those on
which payments were consolidated, and thus became debtor
to the partnership for about $1500, a little more than onethird the cost of that lot.
On the 26th March, 1842, his health having been for some
months broken down, lie addressed a letter to Kinney, in.
closing one to the Cogswells, dated the 20th of the same
month from Mishwaukie, Illinois.
In the letter to Cogswell, lie makes a full statement of the
transactions concerning the canal lots; says that he is riot
able to hold any part of the property, and would like to have
some arrangement made by which he could give up his interest in all of it, and be released of his debt to them; and
adds that he lives at such a distance from the property that
other agents can attend to it at less expense than lie can.
In his letter to Kinney he says:
"I inclose a letter upon the subject of the canal lots, and you
will see how it stands; but how to manage it without our being
together I know not. As I am not able to own the property,
and really, in the depressed feeling I, am in, am not fit to take
care or look after it, I would like them to take all and give up
my note, I paying property enough to make them secure. For
instance, the property to be all theirs, which is at one-third less
than cost now. It will include $2172 of my own property. I
will give, besides, the west fractional half of section 19, which
ought to go with the east half, now owned by the company,
$400. I will also (if they actually ask-it ought not to be required)-give all my school section lots in Chicago, worth $1500
cash now. I feel so much depressed and so unfit to take care
of these matters that I will, if the whole matter can be settled,:
give up this property and have it off my mind, if the whole is
asked."

Dec. 1864.]

LEE v.

DODGE.

Statement of the case.

This letter Kinney filed and preserved, as he did other letters of Lee; including letters between the date of the proposition and Lee's death. Lee himself, after lingering ia dis.
ease and embarrassment for some months, died in Novem.
ber, 1842.
What was done by Cogswell or by Kinney in the way of
action upon these two letters of Lee was a chief point in issue. The defendants in the bill, who were in possession of the
lot and who claimed it under the deed of the administrator,
set up that th6 letter contained a proposition, and that this
proposition had been accepted; that so there had been a
contract; that the deed from the administrator had been in
pursuance of that contract, and that no conveyance ought
to be decreed. The complainants, Lee's heirs-at-law, on the
other hand, denied that there was any contract; asserting
that the letter of the 26th March was not a definite offer,
but only a statement of what he, Lee, would be willing to
do if the parties could meet personally and so " manage"
things; and asserting, moreover, that even such a plan as
was suggested had never been responded to or accepted.
The evidence on this last point, as it appeared on the one
side and on the other, was thus:
Infjaor of the idea that it had been accepted. Kinney testified that soon after receiving Lee's two letters, lie had different conversations with Jonathan Cogswell and his sister,
in which they agreed to accept Lee's offer; and that some
six or eight weeks after the letter of Lee was written-he
thought in the month of May-he wrote him a letter acceptlug, on behalf of himself and the Cogswells, the offer of Lee,
without exacting the school section lots in Chicago; and he
further stated that he thought that he received a letter from
Lee acknowledgiug the receipt of this letter of acceptance.
He also stated that lie had promised Lee to go to IllinoiF
that summer on this business.
Certain facts were relied on as confirming this testimony;
as-

i. That Lee had left at his death a deed (found among his
papers after that event) signed and acknowledged, but with

LEE v. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the cage.

a blank space where the name of the grantee should be, and
that this deed was with another deed; a deed of the partnership lots.
ii. That there was found among Lee's papers a letter from
Cogswell, dated October 18th, 1842; a long letter, detailing
the pecuniary troubles of the writer, and expressing his desire to realize from the lands in which he had invested with
Lee. He speaks of the lands which were conveyed to his
sister, mentions the canal lots, and says if the deed has
not been recorded that the name of the grantee should be
changed, and they should be conveyed to him, and then
directs that the deeds be recorded. But there was no specific mention of lot 4, now in controversy.
iii. Letters of Kinney also were found among Lee's papers, urging [lhe conveyance, and recording of deeds for real
estate.
The blank, as to the grantee's name, in the deed from
Lee for the lot 4, was, as already mentioned, filled up by
Lee's administrator, one B. T. Lee. Kinney, it appeared,
went, in June, 1843, to Chicago, and had a full settlement
with B. T. Lee, administrator of G. W. Lee, of an individual
claim which he had against Lee's estate, and also of that of
the partnership. In that settlement he received the deed
already mentioned, of the lot in controversy, found among
Lee's papers, and by his advice and with his knowledge the
blanks in the deed were filled with the name of Lois Cogswell, and delivery made by B. T. Lee. These arrangements,
Kinney testified, were made with the purpose of carrying
out ''the contract," and that B. T. Lee, the administrator,
understood things in that way.
On the other hand, the testimony of Mr. Kinney was given
twenty years after the date of the alleged transaction.
No letter of acceptance was produced friom any source,
nor any alleged copy of one.
A letter thus, from Kinney to Lee, dated July, 1842, was
found among Lee's papers:

Dec. 1864.]

LEE v. DODGE.

818

Opinion of the court.
"DEAR

FRIEND LEE:

"The last letter f( had the pleasure of receiving fdom you related to the lands in Chicago, &c. Dr. and Miss Cogswell had it
for a time, and perhaps the former took it with him, as I am
not able to find it at present. 'I will, therefore, defer saying anything in reply until I find the letter. It is, in fact, a difficult matter
to say what is best to be done under the circumstances. .

.

. Your

management of the matter was one great inducement to enter into it,
and we might almost as well throw the whole away as attempt to
manage it ourselves at this distance. My main object, however, in
addressing you at this time is in regard to taxes, which I wish
you to attend to, and see paid, on all the property we are jointly
interested in."
That the deed for the partnership properly-found after
Lee's death among his papers with the deed having the
grantee's name in blank, for this canal lot 4, block 53, in
controversy-was fully executed and only needed delivery.
As to B. T. Lee, the administrator's, understanding that
a contract existed when Kinney went to Chicago, in June,
1843, and had a full settlement with him there, B. T. Lee
himself testified that he had never at that time heard of a
contract, and that none was spoken of during the settlement.
Two full memoranda of agreement, showing the terms of
settlement, relating the one to a personal claim of Kinney's
against the estate, the ofher to the joint claim of Cogswell
and himself, made no. reference to any existing contract.
Mr. Justice MILLER (stating the case) delivered the
opinion of the court.
The conveyance of the legal title which is asked for by
the bill filed in this suit is claimed on the ground of a contract, alleged to have been made in his lifetime by G. W.
Lee; and the only question in the ease is as to the truth of
this allegation, which is fully denied by the defendants in
the court below, who are appellants here.
It is claimed by complainants that the contract was made
by letters; Lee proposing the terms in a letter written by

814

LEE V. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

him from Kisliwaukee, Illinois, which were accepted by a
letter written by Kinney, at New York, where he resided.
The letter, or rather the two letters, supposed to contain the
offer of Lee are produced, and are admitted to be in his
handwriting; but the letter of acceptance, if there was one,
is not produced, nor any copy of it; and the fact that such
a letter was ever written depends' upon the testimony of
Kinney and certain circumstances supposed to corroborate
his statemhent.
The counsel for the appellants denies that what is written in this letter was intended as an offer which Lee expected
the other party to act on definitely; but rather as a suggestion of what he was willing to do if they could get together.
The opening expression of the letter certainly does point
strongly to a personal interview as essential in the writer's
view to a final arrangement. Still the terms ofibred are so
definite, the property which he was to convey, and the consideration which he was to receive, namely, the note in
which he had confessedjudgment, were all so fully set forth,
that we think if an unconditional acceptance in writing can
be made out, it constitutes a contract, which should be specifically enforced in a court of chancery.
We have already stated that the proof of this acceptance
rests mainly on the testimony of Kinney, who states that he
is very confident that some six or -eight weeks after the letter of Lee was written-he thinks in the month of May-he
wrote hint a letter accepting, in behalf of himself and the
Cogswells, the offer of Lee, without exacting the schoolsection lots in Chicago. He further states that he thinks he
received a letter from Lee acknowledging the receipt of this
letter of acceptance.
Let us look now, for a moment, at certain matters which
are urged upon us, strongly confirming this statement of
Kinney.
1. The fact which we have already mentioned, that a deed
for this lot was left, signed and acknowledged, with a blank
space for the name of the grantee, by G. W. Lee among his
papers at his deatb, with another deed of the partnership

Dec. 1864 ]

LEE v. DODGE.
Opinion of the court.

lots which was fully executed and only needed delivery, is
one of them.
It is to be remarked, however, as to the deed for the
partnership lots, that Lee had previously conveyed the partnership property whenever requested by the other partners,
and letters are in the record from them urging him to do
this as to the canal lots. From his embarrassed condition,
it was also his moral duty to make this conveyance to save
the property, to those who were entitled to it, from the grasp
of his individual creditors. This sufficiently explains the
existence of that deed. But the fact that the deed for his
own lot had no grantee in it, implies that his purpose with
regard to it was not the same as with reference to the other.
IHe might have kept such a deed in readiness, if Kinney
should come out West, as he had written he would, and
should then be willing to accept his proposition and satisfy
the judgment against him. Or he may have been expecting
a favorable answer from Kinney, and wished to be ready if
he received it. At all events, conceding his willingness to
make thd contract, we do not think that any very strong
presumption arises that his proposition had been acceptedwhich is the point to be established-from this paper in the
form of a deed, but without a delivery, and with no directions left on either of these points.
2. A letter from Jonathan Cogswell to Lee, found among
Lee's papers, dated October 18th, 1842,* is much relied on
as showing that the contract had been concluded.
The counsel for the appellees assumes that what is there
written is written of the lot in controversy. But as we have
already seen that the lots which were undoubtedly partnership property were to be conveyed for safety to some other
member of the company by Lee, and as there are letters
from them urging him to do this, all that Cogswell says in
that letter is fully applicable to the partnership lots. At
least, it might just as well have been written, and is as easily
understood, if no thought had ever been entertained of conveying the lot which belonged exclusively to Lee.
* Supra, top of p. 812.

816

LEPE v. DODGE.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

3. Other letters of Kinney urging the conveyance and recording of deeds for real estate are produced, as showing the
understanding that Lee was to convey this lot, but the answer is as in the case of the letter of Cogswell, that they do
not mention this lot, and all that is said in them is fully explicable on the hypothesis that they refer exclusively to partnership lots.
We do not perceive, then, that these circnmstances add
much support to the testimony cf Kinney. Of this, it is to
be remarked, that it is delivered twenty years after the date
of the supposed letter of acceptance, that lie does not pretend
to be precise as to the date of it, within several weeks, and
still less is he positive as to its language. lie speaks, as we
are satisfied, with candor, but with a want of certainty which
is commendable, in reference to matters occurring so long
ago of which he has no memorandum in writing. He says
that some little time after receiving Lee's letters lie had conversations, at different timnes, with Jonathan and Lois Cogswell, in which they agreed to accept Lees offer, and he feels
pretty sure he wrote to that eflct to Lee. If we recall the
fact, that Lee says lie did not see how the matter could be
arranged without a personal interview, and connect this with
Kinney's statement that he had promised Lee to come out
to Illinois that summer on that business, we can see how
easily Kinney, having agreed with the Cogswells as to the
terms of settlement, and having resolved to go out to Illinois
and close it up, may, in recalling the transaction after twenty
years, have been so impressed with his conviction that it
was all satisfactorily arranged before Lee's death, as to feel
confident that he had communicated to Lee the resolution,
which had only been arrived at in the minds of himself and
the Cogswells.
Many circumstances, not easily reconciled with the existence of such a letter, confirm this view of the matter.
No such letter of acceptance was found among the papers
of G. W. Lee. The force of this fact is rendered much
stronger by the circumstance that among his papers several
letters were found, from Kinney 'and Cogswell, bearing

Dec. 1864.]

LEE v. DODGE.

817

Opinion of the court.

dates between the date of his proposition and that of his
death.
Kinney was a lawyer, and knew the necessity of preserving some evidence of his acceptance of the proposition, if it
was one on which he ever expected to rely, yet he produces
no copy of this letter of acceptance. Nor does he produce
the letter from Lee acknowledging the receipt of that letter,
although he found carefully filed away the letters in which
Lee makes the proposition. These letters contain a full
statement of the canal-lots transaction ; thus showing that
when importance was attached to letters they were preserved. Several other letters of Lee to Kinney are produced, but none recognizing the existence of this contract.
Kinney swears that the arrangements made when he went
to Chicago, in June, 1843, and had a settlement with B. T.
Lee, the administrator, were made witlh a view of carrying
out the contract, which we are considering, and that B. T.
Lee so understood it. B. T. Lee swears that he had never
then heard of such a contract, and that no mention was
made of it during his negotiation with Kinney. It is fortunate, in this conflict of recollections, that Kinney produces
two memorandums of agreement made at the time, emabracing the terms of settlements made by him with B. T. Lee,
and signed by them ; one having reference to his individual
claim against Lee's estate, and the other to the claim of
himself and the Cogswells. These are full ; and a careful
examination of them discloses nothing which, by the remotest implication, can be held to refer to an agreement
made by Lee in his lifetime. Yet, as Kinney must, as a
lawyer, have known that B. T. Lee was largely exceeding
his powers as an administrator, nothing would have been
more natural than a reference to a contract, which would
have supplied this defect of power, if any such contract had
been known to exist. Not only is there no allusion to a
former agreement, but the one made at this time varies materially from the one set up in this suit ; and this variance is
to the prejudice of the parties interested in Lee s estate.
The superior value of these writings as evidence, over the
VOL. V.

52

LEE

v.

DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of tho court.

recollections of Mr. Kinney, after twenty years from, the
time of the transaction, is apparent to every legal mind.
There is another piece of written testimony to which the
same remark is applicable, and which we think is of itself
almost conclusive that Kinney is mistaken in his recollection
as to a written acceptance of Lee's proposition. It is the
letter written by him to Lee, dated July 1st, 1842. [His
Honor here quoted the letter on p. 813, beginning "Dear
Friend Lee."] It is to be reraembered that Kinney swears
that he thinks it was in May, or early in June of that year,
that ,he wrote to Lee accepting his proposition. And if it
was accepted at all, it is reasonable to suppose that it was
done within three months from the time the offer was made.
The letter referred to in this letter of Kinney, as received
from Lee, was undoubtedly the one contaiinig Lee's proposition. The language of Kinney'siletter is wholly inconsistent with the idea that Lee's proposition had been accepted.
On the contrar.y, it states an objection to it in the loss of his
services, equivalent to throwing away the' whole sum invested. Yet this letter was written three months after they
had probably received that proposition, and one month after
the time when Kinney says it was accepted.
Under all the circumstances, in proof before us, we are
compelled to conclude that Kinney labored under a mistake when he testified that the proposition of Lee had been
accepted in writing. This fact is a vital one in the case of
complainants, and having failed to establish it, they must
fail in their suit.
Decree reversed with costs, and the case remanded witI,
directions to enter a decree
DISMISSING THE BILL.

