Dec. 1866.]

THE JENNY.

183

Opinion of the court.

THE JENNY.
1. A vessel sailing through blockaded waters may be properly seized on
suspicion of'intent to break the blockade, when, in addition to the
manifest bearing date as of a day when only a part of the cargo is laden,
the bills of health and clearance point to one port as her port of des.
tination, while the captain's letter of instructions require him to stop
at another not in the direct line to that place, for instructions; when
both the vessel's bills of health specify six men and no passengers,
there being, in fact, one passenger; when the provisional certificate
of registry represents as sole owner one person, and other papers another.
2. Condemnation decreed where a vessel, with a changed name and with
papers open to suspicion, as above stated, and whose master had ter
months before commanded a blockade-runner, was found sailing from
the immediate proximity of the line separating neutral from blockaded
waters (in fact from within the line), with an ownership which a complicated, obscure, and apparently contradictory history, left in doubt,
where also the ostensible ownership was apparently but a mere cover;
no claim for her being put in after capture and libel otherwise than by
her captain, who put it in for the ostensible owners; lie acting without
instructions friom theim and only in his capacity of master; a part of
the cargo being, moreover, more plainly still, enemy's property.
S. In proceedings in libel against a ship and cargo as prize of war, the burden of proving neutral ownership of them is upon the claimants. When
there is no proof of such ownership, and still more when the weight of
the evidence is that the ownership is enemy ownership, condemnation
will be pronounced.

from the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, decreeing restitution of
the schooner Jenny and cargo, and decreeing costs and
charges against their claimants; the questions involved
being of fact chiefly.
APPEALS

Mr. Ashton, A.-sislani Altorney- General,for the Uniled States;
Mr. Marvin, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the
court; in which the case is stated.
The schooner Jenny, with a cargo of one hundred and
fifty-four bales of cotton, was captured by the United States
war steamer Virginia, in Texan waters, north of the Rio

TiHE JENNY.

ES Al. Ct.

Opinion of the court..

Grande, on the 6th of October, 1863, and was brought into
New Orleans.
She was libelled as prize of war in the District Court for
the Eastern District of Louisiana on the 16th of October.
On the 7th of November John Johnson, the master of the
schooner, put in four separate claims: one in behalf of Iale
& Co., for the schooner; one in behalf of H. Fernstein, for
forty-four bales of cotton; one in behalf of Ruprecht & Fortner, for thirty-nine bales, and one in behalf of J. Rosenfeld,
for seventy-one bales. On the 10th of December two other
claims were filed: one by Charles Andre, in behalf of Augustine Stark, for the thirty-nine bales, and the other by
'Conrad Seiler, in behalf of R. M. Elkes, for the forty-four
bales. No personal claim or test-affidavit was made by any
of the parties alleged to have title in the vessel or cargo;
and no evidence was put in of any authority in Andre or
Seiler to represent Stark or Elkes. The authority of Johnson was derived from his character as master.,
The seizure was made because she sailed from the blockaded coast of Texas, and because of the unsatisfactory nature of her papers.
Her manifest was dated September 17, 1863, at which time
her log-book showed that she had only part of her cargo on
board; it appeared also from her manifest, her bill of health
from the American consul, and her Mexican clearance, that
she was bound for New York, whereas the captain's letter of
instruction required her to stop at Nassau and 6onform to the
instructions of Saunders & Co., of that place; both her bills
of health specified six men, and no passengers, whereas, in
fact, a passenger by the name of Mund was found on board;
the provisional certificate of registry represented Hale & Co.,
of Matamoras, as sole owners of the vessel, whereas, the captain's instructions and other papers showed that C. F. Jenny
was the owner.
These facts, doubtless, justified suspicion and warranted
seizure. We must then inquire into the true character and
ownership of the vessel and cargo, as shown by the prepiara.
tory evidence.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

JENNY.

185

Opinion of the court.

It appears that the vessel was American built, and that
her original name was Southron; and a paper found on
board showed that Johnson, her master, had commanded in
December, 1862, a schooner engaged in running the blockade from Mobile to Havana.
The Southron was sold under order of the United States
sequestration commission in New Orleans to one P. A.
Fronty, and a register was issued to him on the 18th of
March, 1863.
She was probably soon after sold by Fronty, though he
still remained master, to one Julius Sehliekum; for this person, on the 21st of April, made a bill of sale of her at Matamoras, to Hale & Co., of that place.
Hfale & Co. do not seem to have taken possession of her;
for, on the same day, an irrevocable power of attorney was
made by that firm to one Jacob Rosenfeld, of Houston, in
Texas, giving him or his substitute absolute control over
the management and disposition of the schooner by sale or
otherwise.
This paper was not signed by Hale & Co., but was drawn
in their name, and signed by one John P. Molony, who, in
a declaration of membership in the firm, dated six days
later, represented himself as a partner.
These documents were nob framed and executed in this
irregular way by accident. In a letter to Johnson & Co., at
Nassau, Jenny called IHale & Co. "the pretended owners,"
and complained that Molony refused to make out the papers,
as he, Jenny, wished, simply remarking to him, "You have
full and irrevocable power of attorney to do or not to do
with the schooner whatever you please. I shall never interfere with you or your acts."
On the same day that the declaration of ownership was
madc, a British provisional certificate of registry representing Fronty as master, and Hale & Co. as owners, was issued
by the British vice-consul.
On the 12th of September, 1863, Rosenfeld transferred to
Charles F. Jenny, of Matamoras, as his substitute, all the
powers vested in him by the irrevocable power of attorney.

186

THE JENNY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

And on the 17th of the same month, Jenny made a like
transfer to Saunders & Co., of Nassau, as his substitute.
Jenny appears to have exercised control over the vessel
much earlier; for he appointed Johnson in place of Fronty,
on the 27th of May; after which the schooner made a voy
age to Havana and back, with Rosenfeld as supercargo.
In all transactions connected with the last voyage, Jenny
acted as apparent owner; while Rosenfeld appeared only as
a shipper of cotton. In the letter to Saunders & Co., already
quoted, Jenny authorized the sale of the schooner at Nassau,
and directed the remittance of the proceeds to his firm in
Switzerland. In case sale could not be effected at Nassau,
he directed that the power and the papers of the ship should
be transferred to Schlesinger & Co., of New York, the consignees there of the vessel and cargo, to whom he also wrote
instructing them to sell the schooner, or, if not, to obtain a
return cargo for her. In this letter he spoke of the vessel
as "my schooner Jenny."
This testimony leaves the ownership of the schooner in
some doubt. The sale to Hale & Co. was most probably a
mere cover. It is clear that, except in obtaining the British
provisional registry, they never acted or held themselves out
as owners; nor did thy appear personally in this court to
make claim for the vessel, or otherwise than through Johnson, who acted without instructions from them, and merely
in his capacity as master. And he, in his preparatory deposition, said only, that the Jenny belonged to them, as far as
he knew, but he did not know exactly.
Their irrevocable power of attorney to Rosenfeld, 'ested
in him all the powers of owner, and made him owner in
effect. After the transfer of the power, Rosenfeld was constantly connected with the schooner as supercargo and shipper of cotton. On the other hand, the conduct of Jenny
and his apparently absolute control, indicates ownerthip of
her. He may have acted, and probably did act under some
arrangement with Rosenfeld, or they may have been connected
in ownership. The former supposition is strengthened by
the circumstance that Jenny disappeared from all apparent

Dec. 1866.]

THE JENNY.
Opinion of the court.

connection with her, immediately after capture; while Hfale
& Co., the grantors of the Jenny to Rosenfeld, were brought
forward as ostensible owners.
Thus far as to the vessel. We have already referred tc
the claims for the cargo.
One of the claims was in behalf of Rosenfeld, who was
presented in a new character. In the power of attorney
executed at Matamoras, he was described as a resident of
Texas. In the claim made in New Orleans, he was represented as a resident of that city, absent in Matamoras. The
claim in his behalf was for the seventy-one bales. It is remarkable, if he was in fact a resident of New Orleans, that
he has never claimed otherwise than through Johnson, and
never made any test affidavit at all. The truth, we apprehend is, that he was what the power of attorney declared
him to be,-a resident of Texas,-and therefore, at that
time, a rebel enemy of the United States.
The remainder of the cargo seems to have been shipped
in good faith at Matamoras.
We are next to inquire what was the conurse, position, and
conduct of the vessel at the time of capture, as shown by
the preparatory evidence and the further proof.
She had recently come down the Rio Grande from Matamoras. She was observed two days before the capture
anchored in Texan waters, near the coast of Texas.* She
was probably there when she took on board the seventy-one
bales belonging to Rosenfeld, which she received from lighters. When she left her anchorage, the Virginia sent a boat
to intercept her, and she was brought to by a shot or two
from this boat. The mate of the Jenny says she was at this
time about a mile from the shore. The officers of the Virginia make her distance from shore three miles or more,
and her pbce from three to five miles south of the Riq
Grande.
What are the conclusions of law from these facts? In
strictness the Jenny, having taken on part of her cargo off
See chart, supra, p. 17.-REP.

188

EX PARTE THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

the blockaded coast and having sailed from that coast, was
attempting to run the blockade when captured.
But we are not inclined to condemn the vessel on this
ground, much less the forty-four bales and the thirty-nine
bales, which were taken on board at Matamoras.
But it is an undoubted principle that in a case of libel as
prize of war, the burden of proving the neutral ownership
of the ship and cargo is upon the claimants. In this case
satisfactory proof is made of neutral ownership in the cotton
laden at Matamoras. But there is no proof at all of such
ownership in the seventy-onIe bales put on board from
lighters; and no satisfactory proof of such ownership in the
schooner. On the contrary, the weight of the evidence is
that these bales were owned by a rebel enemy; and that the
sdme rebel enemy, either alone or in association with Jenny,
who makes no claim, owned the schooner.
. It results that the forty-four bales and the thirty-nine
bales must be restored to the claimants represented by the
master, without contribution to costs or expenses, and that
the seventy-one bales and the schooner must be condemned.
The decree below must be reversed and a decree entered
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

Ex

PARTE THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. A case being properly in this court by appeal, the court has a right to issue
any writ which may be necessary to render its appellate jurisdiction effectual.
2. Accordingly, it will issue the writ of supersedeas if such writ be necessary
foi that purpose; the circumstances otherwise making it proper.
8. It will issue this writ rather than attain the same end by issuing a mandamus to the court below, in a case where the issuing of a mandamus
would control judicial action in a niatter apparently one of discretion ;
as ex gr. the approval or rejection of a bond offered for the court's approval.
1. Hence, where, after an appeal to this court, the judge below refused to
approve a bond for a supersedeas, because all the sureties were non-residents of the district, this court (though not agreeing with such judge in

