Dec. 1866.]

HADDEN

v.

THE COLLECTOR.

Statement of the case.

HADDEN

v.

THE COLLECTOR.

1. The title of an act cannot be used to extend or to restrain any positive
provisions contained in the body of the act. It is only when the meaning of these is doubtful that resort may be had to the title, and even then
it has little weight.
2. What is termed the policy of the government with reference to any par-ticular legislation is too unstable a ground upon which to rest the judgment of the court in the interpretation of statutes.
S. On the 14th of July, 1862, Congress passed "An act increasing, temporarily the duties on imports, and for other purposes." The fourteenth
section of the act provides that after the first day of August, 1862,
"there shall be levied, collected, and paid on al goods, wares, and
merchandise of the growth or produce of countries beyond the Cape of
Good Hope, when imported from places this side of the Cape of Good
Hope, a duty of ten per cent. ad valorem, and in addition to the duties
imposed on any such articles when imported directly from the place or
places of their growth or production." Upon the construction of the
section,
Held;-that the latter clause does not qualify the general language of the'
first clause "on all goods, &c.," so as to exclude from it the articles
previously exempt It only provides that the duty laid by the first
clause shall be in addition to existing duties imposed on such articles
when imported directly from their places of growth or production; in
other words, that such articles as already pay a duty when imported
directly from these places shall pay a further duty if imported from
places this side of the Cape; its object being to increase the duty upon
the articles when not imported directly from their places of growth or
production. The words "any such articles " do not mean all the articles embraced in the first clause, but only such of them as were already
subject to duty.
4. The section in question does not make a discrimination in favor of the
ports of the Pacific, and thus contravene that clause of the Constitution
which requires that "all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States." The terms "1beyond the Cape of Good
Hope" are employed as descriptive of the locality of certain countries,
not their relative position with respect to ports of import. They indicate the locality of certain countries with reference to the position of
the law-makers at the national capital.
ON the 14th of July, 1862, Congress passed "an act increasing temporarily the duties on imports and for other
purposes." The 14th section was as follows:

"And be it further enacted, That from and after the day and

108

HADDEN V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct,

S'atemcnt of the case.

year aforesaid [August 1st, 1862], there shall be levied, collected, and paid on all goods, wares, and merchandise of the
growth or produce of countries beyond the Cape of Good Rope,
when imported from places this side of the Cape of Good Hope, a
duty of ten per cent. ad valorem, and in addition to the duties imposed on any such articles when imported directly from the place or
places of their growth or production."
With this act in force the plaintiffi imported into New
York from Liverpool several packages of raw silk, the
growth or produce of Persia and China, upon which the ten
per cent, duty was exacted. This duty was paid under protest, and a case being agreed on, the present action was
brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York against the collector to recover back the amount.
The matter was the proper interpretation of
the above
section of thie act of Congress, previously to the date of
which it is admitted that the goods described were free of
duty.
The following seotion of the act of 3d of March, 1863, was
introduced into the argument as throwing light, perhaps, on
the former:
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That section fourteen of
an act entitled 'An act increasing temporarily the duties on
imports, and for other purposes,' approved July fourteenth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, be, and the same hereby is
modified, so as to allow cotton, and raw silk as reeled from the
cocoon, of the growth or produce of countries beyond the Cape
of Good Hope, to be exempt from any additional duty when
imported from places this side of the Cape of Good Hope, for
two years from and after the passage of this act."*
The questions were:
1. Whether the 14th section of the act of July, 1862, was
applicable to goods hitherto free of duty; and
2. Whether this statute is reconcilable with the Constitution of the United States, which requires that "all duties,
* 12 Stat. at Large, 657.

Dec. 1866.]

HIADDEN V.

THnE COLLECTOR.

109

Opinion of the court.

imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States."
The court gave judgment for the defendant, and the plaintiffs thereupon brought the case here on error.
Messrs. Slosson and Hutchins, for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Sanbery, A. G., and Mr. Ashton, Assistant A. G.,
:ontra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises upon the fourteenth section of the act of
C ongress of July 14th, 1862, entitled "An act increasing
temporarily the duties on imports, and for other purposes."
That section provides that after the first day of August, 1862,
" there shall be levied, collected, and paid on all goods,
wares, and merchandise of the growth or produce of countries beyond the Cape of Good Hope, when imported from.
places this side of the Cape of Good Hope, a duty of ten per
cent. ad valorem, and in addition to the duties imposed on
any such articles when imported directly from the place or
places of their growth or production."*
Soon after the passage of this act the plaintiffs made several importations into the port of New York from Liverpool,
England, of packages of raw silk, the product of Persia and
China, upon which the ten per cent. duty was exacted. This
duty was paid under protest, and the present action was
brought against the collector to recover back the amoufit.
At the time the act was passed raw silk was not subject
to any duty, and it was contended by the plaintiffs in the
court below, and is contended by them here, that the fourteenth section only applied to such articles, the growth and
product of countries beyond the Cape of Good Hope, as were
then liable to duty, and did not embrace articles upon which
no duty was imposed.
In support of this construction reference is made to the
language of other sections of the act, where a duty is laid
12 Stat. at Large, 557.

110

HADDEN v.

TuE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

upon articles previously exempt; to the title of the act; and
to the supposed policy of the government.
It is true that some of the other sections, when providing
for a duty upon articles previously exempt, express the intention of the legislature in this respect in language free from
doubt. This fact, however, does not necessarily control the
construction of a distinct and independent section. The
fourteenth section relates to articles different from those
covered by the other sections, and necessarily differs from
them in its language, as it makes a discrimination, which
they do not, in the duty imposed, according to the place
from which the articles are exported.
The title of an act furnishes little aid in the construction
of its provisions. Originally in the English courts the title
was held to be no part of the act;-" no more," says Lord
Holt, "than the title of a book is part of the book."* It
was generally framed by the clerk of the House of Parliamient, where the act originated, and was intended only as a
means of convenient reference. At the present day the title
constitutes apart of the act, but it is still considered as only
a formal part; it cannot be used to extend or to restrain any
positive provisions contained in the body of the act. It is
only when the meaning of these is doubtful that resort may
be had to the title, and even then it has little weight. It is
seldom the subject of special consideration by the legislature.
These observations apply with special forge to acts of Congress. Every one who has had occasion to examine them
has found the most incongruous provisions, having no reference to the matter specified in the title. Thus the law regulating appeals in Mexican land cases to the District Courts
of the United States from the board of ommissioners, created
under the act of March 3d, 1851, is found in an act entitled
"An act making appropriations for the civil and diplomatic
expenses of the government for the year ending June 30th,
1853, and for other purposes."t The law declaring that in
the courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion
Mills v. Wilkins, 6 Modern, 62.

t 10 Star. at Large, 98.

Dec. 1866.]

HADDEN

V. TInE COLLECTOR.

Opinion of the court.

of any witness on account of color, nor in civil actions when
he is a party to or interested in the issue tried, is contained
in a proviso to a section in the appropriation act of 1864, the
section itself dire, ting an appropriation for detecting and
punishing the countefeiting of the securities and coin of the
United States.*
During the past session, whilst a bill was pending before
Congress entitled " A bill granting the right of way to ditch
and canal owners over the public lands, and for other purposes," all after the enacting clause was stricken out, and
provisions establishing a complete system for the possession
and sale of interests in mines were substituted in its place.
And thus the most important act in our legislation relating
to the mining interests of the country stands on the statutebook under a title purporting that the' act grants a right of
way to ditch and canal owners over the public lands, and
for other purposes.t The words "for other purposes," frequently added to the title in acts of Congress, are considered
as covering every possible subject of legislation.
The supposed policy of the government is stated to be the
encouragemaent of manufactures by imposing restrictions on
goods manufact'ured in whole or in part abroad, and hence
it is argued that it was against such policy to impose duties
on the raw material.
Little weight can be gien to considerations of this character in the'construction of the act. The encouragement of
manufactures does not appear to have been the object of the
act; but, on the contrary, its object was manifestly to increase the revenues of the country, and it may well have
been supposed by the law-makers that in many cases the
raw material could bear a duty without decreasing the importation, or ii)juriously affecting the manufacturing interests.
What is termed the policy of the government with reference to any particular legislation is generally a very uncertain thing, upon which all sorts of opinions, each variant
* 13 Stat. at Large, 351.

t" 14 Id. 1251.

HADDEN

V.

THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from the other, may be formed by different persons. It is. a
ground much too unstable upon which to rest the judgment
of the court in the interpretation of statutes.
Looking to the section by itself, we find no little difficulty
in its construction. The first clause declares that upon all
goods, wares, and merchandise, the growth or product of
countries beyond the Cape of Good Hope, when imported
from places this side of the Cape, a duty of ten per cent ad
valorem shall be levied, and the latter clause does not qualify
this general language so as to exclude from it the articles
previously exempt. It only provides, as we construe it, that
the duty laid by the first clause shall be in addition to existing duties imposed on such articles when imported directly
from their places of growth or production; in other words,
that such articles as already pay a duty when imported directly from these places shall pay a further duty if imported
from places this side of the Cape ;its.object being to increase
the duty upon the articles when not imported directly from
their places of growth or production. The words " any such,
articles" do not mean all the articles embraced in the first
clause, but only such of them as were already subject to
duty.
The amendatory act of March 3d, 1863, passed a few
months afterwards, indicates very clearly the understanding.
of Congress that the ten per cent. was imposed as an additional duty, though in fact 'raw silk, as already stated, was
at the time exempt. Its language is that the fourteenth seetion shall be modified so as to allow "cotton and raw silk,
as reeled from the cocoon, to be exempt from any additional
duty when imported from places this side of the Cape of
Good Hope for two years" from the Passage of the act.*
The objection to the statute that it makes a discrimination
in favor of the ports of the Pacific, and thus contravenes that
clause of the Constitutiont which requires that " all duties,
imposts, and excises shall be unifornithroughout the United
States," is not tenable. The ground of the objection is that
*12 Stat. at :Large, 74.2.

tArt. 1,

8.

Dec. 1866.]

SHELTON

V.

THE COLLECTOR.

113

Statement of the case.

with reference to the Atlantic ports, goods which are the
growth or product of Persia or China, are from countries
beyond the Cape of Good Hope, and are thus chargeable
with duty, but with reference to the Pacific ports, they are
from countries this side of the Cape, and thus not within the
terms of the statute.
The answer to the objection is obvious and conclusive.
The terms "beyond the Cape of Good Hope" are employed
as descriptive of the locality of certain countries, not their
relative position with respect to ports of import. They are
used to avoid the necessity of enumerating the countries
whichf lie east of the Cape. "Beyond the Cape" and "east
of the Cape" are often used in the acts of Congress as
equivalent expressions. They indicate the locality of certain countries with reference to the position of the' lawmakers at the national capital. In a similar manner would
the words "beyond the Mississippi" be construed if found
in an act of Congress. They would be held to refer to the
country west of the Mississippi, which, with reference to the
.egislators at Washington, would lie beyond that river.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SHELTON V. THE COLLECTOR.
1. Where merchandise receives dalhages during a voyage, proof to ascertain the damage must be lodged at the custom-house of the port where
the goods are landed within ten days after the landing.
2. The damages must be ascertained before the goods are entered.

T'His case, which was brought up by a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, was submitted to the court below upon an agreed
statement of facts, substantially as follows:
Shelton & Co.-the plaintifi in error, who were also the
plaintiffs below-imported a quantity of molasses from the
islai.d of Cuba into the port of Boston. At the time of the
VOL. V.
8

