772

SUPERVISORS

V.

SCHENCK.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the three reservations (Buffalo Creek, Alleghany, and Cattaraugus), are illegal, and void as in conflict with the tribal
rights of the Seneca nation as guaranteed to it by treaties
with the United States.
The judgment must therefore be REVERSED, and the cause
remanded, with directions to enter a judgment IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

SUPERVISORS V. SCHENCK.
The levy of a tax and payment of interest by the proper county authorities,
validate§, in the hands of bond fide holders for value, county bonds,
issued in their origin, irregularly, as ex gr. in virtue of a popular vote
ordered by a " County Court," instead of one ordered by the " Board
of Supervisors ;" the vote, however, and other proceedings having beer.
in all respects other than the sourc6 of order, regular. [In this case the
tax had been levied and the interest paid by the county for nine years
before it was set up that the bonds were void.]
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being thus:
An Illinois statute, passed in 1849, authorized the "county
court" of counties wishing to subscribe to.stock in railroads,
to make subscriptions and to issue bonds. . But the statute
provided that no subscription should be made or bonds
issued whereby any debt should be created by the county
court, except after an election to be held in a mode prescribed in the statute, and after at such election two-thirds
of the qualified voters of the county had voted to have it.
In 1851-that is to say, two years after the statute just
mentioned had been passed-the legislature passed another
statute, called The bwnship Organization Law, thus:

"No county under this organization shall possess or exercise
any corporate powers, except such as are enumerated in this act, or
shall be specially given by law, or shall be necessary to the ex.
ercise )fthe powers so enumerated or given.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS

V.

SCHENCK.

Statement of the case.

"The powers of a county as a body politic can only be exeicised 'by the board of supervisors thereof, or in pursuance of a
resolution by them adopted.
"The board of supervisors of each county in this State shall
have power . .

.

. to perform all other duties, not inconsistent

with this act, which may be required of or enjoined on them
by any law of this State relating to the county courts."
One of the counties of Illinois-Marshall County-had
adopted the township organization which this statute of 1851
authorized before ,he 28th day of February, 1853, and was
on that (lay so organized and acting.
In this state of the statute law and of facts Schenck
brought assumpsit in the Circuit Court for Northern Illinois
against the board of supervisors of this same Marshall
County, to recover interest which had become due September 12th, 1865, on the coupons of certain bonds issued nine
years before, signed by the board of supervisors of the said
county, for stock in the Western Air-Line Railroad. The
narr. was in the ordinary form.
Special plea, that on the 281h day of February, 1853, the
County Court of Marshall County ordered an election, to vote
for and against a subscription, &c. That such election was
held under said order; that the board of supervisors, on the
14th of November, 1854, acting by aulhority of said election,
subscribed; that the bonds and coupons were issued in payment of the said subscription; that no election was ever held by
order of the board of supervisors, and that the said Marshall
County had been organized and was acting under the Township Organization Law since prior to 28th of February, 1853,
all of which appeared from the public records of said county. The
plea alleged, therefore, that the bonds and coupons had been
issued without authority of law, and were void.
Special replication, not denying the facts alleged in the plea,
but alleging that the bonds and coupons were issued in payment for stock of the company, which stock was received by
the county; that the county enjoyed all the benefits of a
stockholder; that the bonds were sold by the railroad company to the plaintiftf for value, without any notice of any

774

SUPERVISORS V. SCeENOK.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the supervisors.

want of authority to execute the same, other than the con
structive notice, which might be implied from the record 6f the
said proceedings; that ever since the date of the bonds
(1856) the board of supervisors had annually levied and collected the necessary taxes, and paid the interest on them;
and that therefore the bonds and coupons had been ratified, and
were now valid and binding on the county.
General demurrer and judgment on it against the supervisors of the county for the amount of the coupons declared on.
The county now brought the case to this court; the error
complained of being that the Circuit Court had overruled the
demurrer, instead of sustaining if, and the question being,
whether the bonds were void in the hands of bond fide holders before maturity, because the election which authorized
their issue was called by the County Court of Marshall County,
instead of the board of supervisors of the county, notwithstanding that all the subsequent proceedings as was admitted were regular, and the county bad, for seven or eight
years, levied and collected taxes to pay the interest upon
them, aiid had paid the interest as it fell due, until the de1hult stated in the declaration of this case.
Mr. Cook, for the supervisors of the County of lMarshall,plaintiff in error:
1. This is a question of power and of its legal exercise.
Counties are organized for purposes of government. If
they create debts fbr purposes so alien to the purpose of
their creation as building railroads, they must do so under
general or special law. Without law, the creation of such a
debt is void. If a law exists for the creation of the debt, unless such debt is created substantially according to the law,
no liability attaches to the county. These statutes have expressly declared that the bonds should not issue, unless in
pursuance of authority conferred by a vote of the majority
in favor of such subscription, at an election called in the
mode pointed out by the act. It is admitted that these bonds
were issued without such an election. A slight deviation

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V.

SCHENCK.

Argument for the bondholder.

from the mode prescribed will not, we may fully admit, invalidate such securities in the hands of innocent holders fbi
a valuable consideration. But there is a wide difference be.
tween an act performed without authority, or in violation of
law, an*d an act defectively performed under authority. In
the former case the act is absolutely void. Here a ratification is set up. But how could the county authorities ratify
a contract which they had no authority to make, and es.
pecially without an'N further or other authority than that
which they had at the time they made it? Such a contract
is " incapable of ratification by the county authorities."*
2. Then it is set up that the plaintiffi are bona Jide holders
of these bonds without notice. But can there be such holders of bonds like these ?
The supervisors derived their authority to act frorn the
law, which was public, and the condition precedent was not
only one which was in its nature public, but it was also a
matter of record in the public offices.

Purchasers of these

bonds were bound to look to these records, and if those
showed prinidfieie that the board was not authorized in law
to issue the bonds, then the holders took theni with notice.
3. The Supreme Court of Illinois has construed those statutes, in Cbok v. Supervisors of Marshall County, not yet reported,
and held part of the issue of these same bonds to be void.
This court follows the rulings of State courts on State statutes.
Mr. S. W. Fuller, conra:
1. The exact question raised here has been decided by this
court numerous times. Knox County v. Aspinwall,t is full to
the 'point. In that case it appeared that, under the law of
Indiana, it was the duty of the sheriffs to give the notices of
the election; but the election authorizing the issue of the
bonds was called by the board of commissioners of Knox
County, and the court held, that as all the subsequent proceedings were regular, the error in calling the election did
C'rke
a* v. The Supervisors, 27 Illinois, 305.

t 21 Howard, 542.

SUPERVISORS

V.

SCHENCI:.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not invalidate the bonds in the hands of bond fide holders.
The same question was again raised, and decided the same
way, in Bissell et al. v. City of Jeffersonville;* and other cases
since, are in harmony with these.t
2. By levying and collecting taxes to pay the interest on
its bonds, and paying that interest for a series of years in
the manner stated in the replication, the county has ratified
its bonds. In Keithsburg v. Friek,t in the State where this
case comes from, the court say, in regard to bonds similarly
issued:
"The corporation is now estopped from setting up any irregularity in their issue, inasmuch as they have repeatedly recog.
nized their validity by paying them out, levying taxes, and paying interest on them for a series of years. . . . It is now too
late to raise a question as to the regularity of their issue."
We need not criticize or discuss the soundness of the decisiou in Cook v. Tie Board of Supervisors of Marshall County.
It is not one of that class of decisions of the State courts
which are binding upon this court.. Bonds and coupons like
those involved in this suit are commercial securities, negotiable instruments, and the questions pertaining to them
must be decided by the rules of commercial law. This
court has always expounded that law for itself. Its right
to do so was declared in Swift v. Tyson,§ a decision never,
that we know of, departed from.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Counties in the State of Illinois may purchase or subscribe
for shares in the capital stock of any railroad company incorporated or organized under any law of the State, in any sum
not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars.
* 24 Howard, 287.

. Moran v. Miami County, 2 Black, 722; Gelpeke et al. v. The City of
Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 175; Von Hostrup v. Madison City, Id. 291 ; Meyei v
The City of Muscatine, Id. 884; Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Id; 327; Rogert
Burlington, Id. 654.
j 16 Peters, 1.
1 34 Illinoi., 405.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V.

SCHENCK.

Opinion of the court.

Pursuant to that law the corporation defendants, on the
twelfth (lay of September, 1856, issued, as alleged in the first
count of the declaration, thirty bonds, each for one thousand
dollars, payable to the Western Air-Line Railroad Company,
or order, in twenty years from date, with interest coupons
annexed, stipulating for the payment to bearer of interest
annually, at the rate of six per centun per annum. Same
count alleged that the plaintiff, on the first day of July,
1857, became the legal holder of those bonds, with the coupons thereto attached, by due indorsement and delivery.
Present suit, which was an action of assumpsit, was
brought by the plaintiff to recover one year's interest on
those bonds, which fell due on the twelfth day of September, 1865, nine years after the bonds were issued and eight
years after the plaintiff became the holder of the same, for
value, and in the usual course of business.
The authority of counties to purchase or subscribe for
such shares and issue such bonds is subject to certain conditions or regulations, one of which is, that a majority of the
qualified voters of the county must first vote for such subscription or purchase. Provision is also made for proper
notice to the electors of the time and place of the meeting
for that purpose, and the requirement is, that the notice
must specify the company in which stock is proposed to be
subscribed, the amount proposed to be taken, the time the
bonds are to run, and the rate of interest the bonds are to
bear.
Defendants appeared and filed a special plea, and rested
their defence entirely upon the allegations of that plea.
Substance of the defence was, that the bonds were issued
without authority, and were invalid, because the election to
procure the consent of a majority of the qualified voters of
the county was ordered to be held by the county court of the
county, and not by the board of supervisors of the county,
as required by law; but they admitted, among other things,
that the election was properly conducted, and that the returns were duly made, and that the proceedings, in all other
respects, were regular and correct.

SUPERVISORS

V. SCHENCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Replication of the plaintiff alleged that the bonds and
coupons were executed and delivered in payment of a like
number of shares of the stock in the railroad company; that
the shares of tile stock were received by the defendants ii.
payment for the bonds, and that the defendants have ever
since held and owned the same, and by virtue thereof have
participated in the election of the officers of the comlpalny,
and in all other benefits and advantages attending such ownership. Ile also alleged that the transfer of the bonds to hi'n
was for a valuable consideration, and without notice or any
defect in the preliminary proceedings, and that the defendants, having paid the interest annually accruing on the bonds
to the amount of six thousand dollars, have thereby ratified
and confirmed the same as binding and obligatory.
Defendants demurred, and the plaintiffj oined in demurrer.
Circuit Court overruled the demurrer, and rendered judgment for the plaintiff, and the defendants removed the cause
into this court.
1. Bonds to the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
were issued by the defendants, of which the bonds specified
in the declaration wore a part, and the railroad company, at
the same time, transferred stock to them in the same amount.
Decision of the Circuit Court in overruling the demurrer is
the only error assigned ia the record, and the single question
presented in the case is, whether the bonds specified in the
declaration, and which were indorsed and delivered before
maturity, are void in the hands of the plaintiff, who is the
holder lbr value, and without notice of any defect in the
proceedings, because the order for the election in which the
mojority of the qualified voters of the county voted to subscribe for the stock of the railroad company and purchase
the shares, was made by the county court, and not by the
supervisors of the county.
Before examining that question it may be well to mention
some of the further admissions of the defendants, as exhibited in their special plea. They therein admit, in express
terms, that the notices of the election were duly published,
that t'he election was held, that the required number of quali-

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V.

SCHENCK.

Opinion of the court.

fled votes were given on the fifth day of April, 1853, and
that the board of supervisors of the county, on the fourteenth
day of November, 1854, made an order, and recorded it,
that the county do subscribe one hundred thousand dollars
to the stock of the company named in the bonds; and that
the board, on the same day, passed another order to empower
the chairman of the board to make the subscription, and that
he made the subscription and purchased the shares on the
following day.
These admissions of the plea, or answer, are followed by
others of equal importance, to wit: That the chairman and
clerk of the board did afterwards issue, by the order of the
board, the bonds of the county, as alleged in the declaration,
and that the same were duly delivered to the railroad company, in payment for a like number of the stock shares of
the company.
Looking at these several admissions, it is obvious that the
sole objection to the validity of the bonds, even inter parles,
arises from the fact alleged in the plea, and not directly denied in the replication, that the order for the election was
passed by the county court of the county, and ,not by the
board of supervisors. Express authority is conferred upon
counties in that State to subscribe for shares, or purchase
the same, in any railroad company inccrporated ai.d organized under the laws of the State, in any amount not exceeding the sum already specified, and the Supreme Court of the
State have settled the doctrine in a series of decisions that
the law of the State conferring such authority is constitutional and valid *
Power in the county, therefore, to make the subscription,
purchase the shares, and issue the bonds in this ease, if the
proceedings were regular, is placed beyond all question.
Support to that proposition is hardly necessary, as it is settled by the decisions of this court, as well as by the highest
judicial authority of the State, and stands confessed.t
2 Statutes, 1072; Prettyman v. Tazewell, 19 Illinois, 406; Johnson f
Stark Co., 24 Id. 75; Butler v. Dunham, 27 Id. 474.
t Ro'ers v,Burlington, t8 Wallace, 668.

SUPERVISORS

V.

SCHENCK.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Notices of the time and place of the election, in due form
of law, were duly published, and the meeting was formally
held at the time appointed, and at the usual place for such
elections. Returns of the election were duly made, and the
admission of the plea warrants the conclusion that they show
that a majority of the qualified voters voted for the subscription. Compliance, therefore, is shown with every provision
of the original law which authorized counties to make such
subscriptions and purchase shares in the capital stock of
railroad companies. Orders for such elections were required
under that law to be made by the county court of the proper
county, and the provision was that the stock so subscribed
or purchased should be under the control of the county
court making such subscription or purchase, in all respects,
as stock owned by individuals.*
Prior to the date of the order for the election in this case,
however, the township organization law was passed, which
provides that the powers of a county as a body politic can
only be exercised by the board of supervisors thereof, or in
pursuance of a resolution by them adopted.t
None of the other provisions of the prior law are repealed,
nor is there any change in the regulations, except that the
order for the election is required to be made by the board
of supervisors, and not by the county court of the county.
The objection is that the order in this case was made as
under the prior law, but the notices, in regular form, were
duly published, and the election was held, and the board of
supervisors of the county ratified the proceedings by subscribing for the stock, issuing the bonds, accepting the
shares in patient of the same, and by participating ever
after in the election of the officers of the company and in
the management of its afiirs, as owners to that extent of
the stock of the company.
Throughout they appear to have adopted the order and
the results of the election as rightfully authorized acts, and
for the period of ten years the county has held the stock as
* 2 Stat tes, 1072.

tId. 1146.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V.

SCHENCK.

781

Opinion of the court.

their own, property, and have voluntarily enjoyed all the
benefits of absolute legal ownership, without any complaint
or any attempt to enjoin the proceedings.
Preliminary proceedings looking to such a subscription
by a municipal corporation may often be enjoined for defects or irregularities before the contract is perfected, in
cases where the corporation will be held to be forever concluded, if they remain silent and suffer the shares to be purchased, the bonds to be issued, and the securities to be exchanged. Nothing of the kind was attempted in this case,
and the defendants have never rescinded, or attempted to
rescind, the contract, and have never returned, or offered to
return, the evidences of their ownership of the shares in the
stock of the company, but have annually acknowledged the
validity of the bonds by voting taxes for the payment of the
accruing interest, and have actually paid the same to the
amount of six thousand dollars.
Judge Story said there was no maxim, where it does not
prejudice the rights of strangers, better settled in reason and
law than Omnis ralihabitio retrotrahituret mandate priori cequiparatur,and it is equally well settled that the maxim is as
applicable to corporations in matters of simple contract as
to other contracting parties. Questions of ratification most
frequently arise in respect to the acts or omissions of agents,
but the general rule is the same in all cases where the act
done was one which it was competent for the party attempted
to be charged to do. When the peincipal, upon a full knowledge of all the circumstances of the case, deliberately ratifies
the acts, doings, or omissions of his agent, he will be bound
thereby as fully, to all intents and purposes, as if he had
originally given him direct authority in the premises, to the
extent which such acts, doings, or omissions reach.*
Ratification is inoperative if the party attempted to be
charged was not competent to make the contract in question when the same was made, nor when the supposed acts
* Story on Agency, ed. 1868,

289; Fleckner v. United States Bank, 8

Wheaton, 863; N. Y. & N. H. R. R. Co. v. Schuyler et al,, 84 New York, 49.

SUPERVISORS V.

SCHENCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of ratification were performed, or if the contract was illegal,
immoral, or against public policy. Like an individual, a
corporation may ratify the acts of its agents done in excess
of authority, and such ratification may, in many cases, be
inferred from acquiescence in those acts, as well as from express adoption.* Such ratification may be by express consent, or by acts and conduct of the principal inconsistent
with any other hypothesis than that he approved, and intended to adopt what had been done in his name; and it
was held in Peterson v. The Mayor of New York,t that the
principle is as applicable to corporations as to individuals.
Where the officers of the corporation openly exercise poweraffecting the interests of third persons, which presupposes
a delegated authority for the purpose, and other corporate
acts subsequently performed show that the corporation must
have contemplated the legal existence of such authority, the
acts of such officers will be deemed rightful, and the delegated authority will be presumed.1
All of the acts of the board of supervisors of the county
in making the subscription, purchasing the shares, issuing
the bonds, and exchanging the securities, appear to have
been open and well known to the corporation, and yet they
constantly suffered themselves to be represented in the choice
of officers and in the management of all the affairs of the
railroad company, and have voluntarily voted taxes for the
payment of the yearly interest on the bonds, and actually
paid the saame, as admitted in the special plea,
Examined in the light of those suggestions, it would be
difficult to imagiuc a case where the rule that a subsequent
ratification is as good as a previous authority can be more
justly applicable than in the case under consideration.§
So, where shares in a railroad company were received by
the officers of a county in exchange for their bonds, and
Hoyt v. Thompson, 19 New York, 218.

t 17 Id. 453.

: Bank of United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheaton, 70.

Mills v. Gleason, 11 Wisconsin, 490; Angell & Ames on Corporations,
237, 804; 2 Kent's Commentaries, 11th ed. 348; tissel v. Rail.
8th ed.,
roa'd, 22 New Y4 -k, 264.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V. SCHENCK.
Opinion of the court.

were never returned, and the proper officers of the county
voted for directors at two elections, and the supervisors paid
two annual instalments of interest, thd Supreme Court of
Illinois held that those acts, unexplained, were as satisfactory evidence of a design to ratify the issue of the bonds as
if it had been done by an order of the supervisors.*
Direct decision to the same effect was also made by that
court in Kcilhsburg v. Frick,t which is the latest reported
decision upon the subject. Views of the court in that case
were that the acts of the supervisors in issuing the bonds
and putting them upon the market, and by levying taxes
and paying interest for a series of years, estopped the county
from setting up any irregularity in their issue, and this court
has, in repeated instances, affirmed the same doctrine.
Leading case in this court is that of Knox County v. Aspinwall,T which was very fully considered by the court. Alleged
defect in that case was that the notices of the election, as
required by law, had not been given in any form, but the
decision was that the question as to the sufficiency of the
notice, and the ascertainment of the fact whether the majority of votes had been cast in favor of the subscription,
was necessarily left to the inquiry and judgment of the
county board, as no other tribunal was provided for the
purpose. Intimation of the court was that their decision
might not be conclusive in a direct proceeding to inquire
into the facts previously to the execution of the power, and
before the rights and interests of third parties had attached,
But the court held that after the authority had been executed, the stock subscribed, the bonds issued, and in the
hands of innocent holders, it was too late, even in a direcl proeeedinq, to call the power in question ; much less, say the
court, can it be called in question to the prejudice of a bona
fide holder of the bonds in a collateral way.
Similar views were expressed by this court in the case of'
Rissel v. Jeftersonville,§ and in many others referred to by ti
* Johnson v. Stark Co., 24 Illinois, 90.
: 21 Uc ward, 544.

f 34 Id. 421.
§ 24 Id. 299

SUPERVISORS V.

SCHENCK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

plaintiff.* When a corporation has power, under any cir
cumstances, to issue negotiable securities, the decision of
this court is that the bonafide holder has a right to presume
they were issued under the circumstances which give the
requisite authority, and they are no more liable to be ipeached for any infirmity in the hands of such a holder than
any other commercial paper.t
State courts in other States have decided in the same way,
as well where the controversy was between the original palr
ties as in favor of indorsers and holders, witho.ut notice of
the alleged defect.t
Argument of the defendants proceeds upon the ground
that if they can show that the order fbr the election emanated from the wrong source, the plaintiff, although an iimocent holder for value, cannot recover; but it is clear that in
a case like the present, where the power to issue the bonds
was fully vested in the corporation, the proposition cannot
be sustained. On the contrary, it is settled law that a negotiable security of a corporation, which upon its face appears
to have been duly issued by such corporation, and in conformnity with the provisions of its charter, is valid in the
hands of a bonafide holder thereof, without notice, although
such security was in point of fact issued for a purpose, and
at a place not authorized by the charter of the corporation.§
Attention is drawn to the fact that in a recent case not yet
reported, the Supreme Court of the State have held that
these bonds are void, even in the hands of an innocent
holder, but inasmuch as the power to issue the bonds was
fully conferred by law, he question of their validity in the
hands of innocent holders, without notice, is a question of
commercial law where the State adjudications, although en*Moran

v. Miami Co., 2 Black, 725.

- Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 203.
t Savings Co. v New London, 29 Connecticut, 174; Tash et al. v. Adams,
10 Cushing, 252.
Stoney v. Life Ins. Co., 11 Paige Ch., 635; F. & M. Bank v. B. & D.
Bank, 1'6 New York, 129; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 Howard, 365; Thomp.
son v. Lee Co., 3 Wallace, 327.

Dec. 1866.]

KELLY V. CRAWFORD.
Statement of the case.

titled to great respect, do not furnish the rule oF Incision in
this court.*
Prior decisions of the State court were in accoi lance with
the decisions of this court, and as those decisions were supposed to be correct expositions of the law of the State at the
period when these bonds were issuedi the latter adjudications cannot control the judgment in this case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

KELLY V. CRAWFORD.
1. Where agents, in the sale of an article, acknowledging a debt of unascertained amount due their principals, sign an agreement passing certain
debts described as "all accounts hereunto attached,: and marked Exhibit
A,"-no exhibit, however, being then or afterwards annexed,-and "all
other debts die" (for the particular article), the contract having the
further purpose of ascertaining, with certainty, from an examination
by an nccountant of the books of the assigning party the exact amount
due,-the contract, in connection with the report of the accountant, may,
on a suit for the amount found due, be read in evidencei, ven without
the exhibit pever annexed.
2. Where, to a suit against a partnership for debt, the defence is, that a former partner has unwarrantably signed the firm name after dissolution
of the partnership, the paper signed may be read in evidence by itself,
it being so read, however, "subject to the proof to be given hereafter."
3. Where a party who has been, and still is, carrying on an agency in the
sale of anything for another, becomes thus indebted to this other, and
agrees that an accountant shall examine the books of account and ascertain from them the exact amount due, "4the amount so found to be due
and owing to be final,"-the agreement is not "a submission to arbitration," nor is the amount found by the accountant an " award" in any
such sense as will make them subject to the strict rules governing arbitrations and awards.

ON error to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case was thus:
Crawford & Co.,in 1860, were coal dealers in Cleveland, and
at the same time Kelly & Maher were coal dealers in Chicago.
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 18.
vol

60

