Dec. 1866.]

O'NEAL V.

KIRKPATRICK.

.791

Statement of the case.

the defendants,, independent of the agreement of September
13th, 1861. Upon the evidence they furnished, taken in
connection with the testimony of Quigg, the verdict of the
jury may be sustained without reference to his report.
They showed the amount received from the sales of coal
furnished to the defendants to which the plaintiffs were en.
titled; and for such amount the recovery can be upheld
under the common counts, for money had and received.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED..

O'NEAL V. KIRKPATRICK.
On the 13th of May, 1861, the legislature of California passed an act which
provides for the reclamation and sale of the "swamp and overflowed
lands" of the State. The twenty-seventh section declares that the provisions of the act shall " apply equally to all salt-marsh or tide lands il
the State as to swamp and overflowed." On the next day-the 14th qf
May-the same legislature passed another act ratifying and confirming
the sales of all marsh and tide lands belonging to the State, which had
been made according to the provisions of any acts of the legislature lot
the sale of' swamp and overflowed lands," and declaring that ''any of
said marsh and tide lands that remained unsold might be purchased
under the provisions of the laws then in force for the sale of swamp and
overflowed lands, Provided no marsh or tide lands within five miles of
the city of San Francisco, &c., should be sold or purchased by authority
of this act." On this caseHeld, that after the passage of the second act there was no authority for
the sale or purchase of salt-marsh or tide lands within five miles of the
city of San Francisco.

THIS was an ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California, to recover a lot of land
situate on the margin of the bay of San Francisco, wilhinfive
miles of the city, below ordinary high-water mark, and which
contained about forty acres of land under water, but which
could be easily reclaimed, and, by the natural growth of the
city, would soon become a part of it. The plaintiffcfaimed
title under a certificate of purchase from the State, dated 23d

792

O'NEAL V. KIRKPATRIC[

K. [Sup. Ut,

Statement of the case.

February, 1864, and which purported to have been issued
by the register of the land office, under two acts of the leg.
islature, passed April 21st, 1858, and May 13th, 1861.
The question in the case turned upon the power of the
register to grant, or, in other words, on the authority to
make the sale of the premises. The act of 1858 provided
for the sale of the "swamp and overflowed" lands of the State.
But the lands in question, as described in the certificate,
were " salt-marsh and ide lands," not within the class or designation of the act. The other act, passed May 13th, 1861,
was entitled " An act to provide for the reclamation and
segregation of the swamp and overflowed and salt-marsh and
tide lands donated to the State of California by act of Congress." It contained an elaborate system for reclaiming
"swamp and overflowed" lands in the State, under the supervision and control of commissioners. Section twentysixth provided for the sale of these lands, and section twentyseventh enacted that "the provisions of this act shall apply
equally to all salt-marsh or tide lands in the State, as to
swamp and overflowed." If the case had rested here, the
authority to make the sale would seem to have been undoubted. But the same legislature passed an act the next
day (May 14th) which, it was contended, annulled this authority. It was entitled, "An act to provide for the sale of
the marsh and tide lands of this State," and contained but
one section. This provided:
1. That the sales of all marsh and tide lands belonging to
the State, that had been made according to the provisions
of any acts of the legislature providing for the sale of the
"swamp and overflowed lands," were thereby ratified and
confirmed.
2. That any of said marsh and tide lands that remained
unsold might be purchased under the provisions of the law,
now in force providing for the sale of the swamp and overflowed lands, ".Prohided no marsh or tide lands within five
miles of the city of San Francisco or the city of Oakland,
&c., shall be sold or purchased by authority of this act," and
Provided,further,that no sales of lands, either tide or marsh,

Dec. 1866.]

O'NEAL

V. KIRKPATRICK.

793

Opinion of the court.

which were thereby ratified and confirmed, within five miles
of said cities, &c., shall be confirmed by this act, except al-alde grants.
Judgment having gone for the defendant, the plaintiff
brought the case here on error.
Messrs. C. T. Botts and Gregory Yale,jfor the plaintiff;
Messrs. Delos Lake, M. Blair, and T. A. Plick, contra.
The argument on the part of the defendant was that this
act restrained the power of sale of these marsh and tide
lands, given by the act of the day preceding, so as to exempt
those lying within five miles of the city, within which the
locus in quo is situate.
The argument on the part of the plaintiff, that the restriction was confined to sales made under the act itself-that is,
the act containing the restriction-and that it did not interfere with or afibect sales made under the act of May 13th.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
What afibrds some plausibility to the argument, on the
part of the plaintiff, is the peculiarity of the words of the
proviso. The words are, "provided, no marsh or tide lands
located within five miles of the city, &c., shall be sold or
purchased by authority of this act." This purchase, as appears from the certificate, was made in 1864, under the act
of May 13th, 1861, and hence was not within any restriction,
as none existed in that act. The point is a nice one, but, we
are inclined to think, not substantial. It will be observed
that the act of May 14th does not profess to confer any
authority of itself to sell or to purchase the marsh and tide
lands, but provides that any remaining unsold may be purchased under the provisions of the laws now in force-that
is, under the act of May 13th. It incorporates, by the reference, that act into its own provisions as the authority fbr
future sales, and when the restriction is limited to sales or
purchases made by authority of this act, it necessarily embraces
sales and purchases under the act of May 13th, that being the
act to which reference is made, and where the authority may

ONEAL

V. ]KIRKPATRIOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be found. This construction, which conforms to the fair
and reasonable import of the terms of the act, makes the two
statutes sensible and consistent, and avoids the absurdity
which must otherwise be imputed to the legislature of passing two acts, in two consecutive days, each containing an
independent authority for the sale and purchase of these
marsh and tide lands.-one with the five miles restriction,
and the other without it.
It may be said that the clause authorizing the sales of
these lands in the act of May 14th, in terms, refers only to
laws then infbrce, providing for the sales of swanip and overflowed lands, and hence that the reference is to the act of
April 21st, 1858. But the answer is, that the act of May 13th
provides for the sales of lands of this class, and then, by the
27th section. enacts that the provisions of the act should
apply to salt-marsh or tide lands the same as to those of
This section incorporated these
swamp and overflowed.
marsh and tide lands into the several provisions of the act
of May .13th, putting them on the same footing as the other
class, and hence the reference in the act of May 14th fairly
embraced them. But, independently of this view, as the
act of May 13th provided for the sales of swamp and overflowed lands, the reference, by its terms, is as applicable to
that act as to the. act of 1858.
The intent of the legislature to prohibit these sales within
the five miles is apparent from another provision of the act
of May 14th, for while it confirmed those that had been made
under some misconstruction of previous laws, it excepted
those made within the five miles, save only alcalde grants.
There is another act' of the legislature quite as decisive
against the title of the plaintiff as the one we have examined,
and less involved, passed April 27th, 1863. This act provides for the sales of swamp and overflowed marsh and tide
lands belonging to the State. It fixes the price and time of
credit given to the purchaser, prescribes the oath to be taken
by him on the application, and the duties of the county sur.
veyor in making the location, also of the surveyor-general
and register of the land office. The act provides, also, for

Dec. oOOJ

DEERY V.

CRAY.

Syllabus.

certificates of purchase and the issuing of the patents; and
section 30 declares: " This act shall not apply to the marsh
and tide lands upon the city front, and within five miles of
the city and county of San Francisco," &c. And section 31
provides that "all acts and parts of acts in conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed."
This act adopts a general system for the sale of certain
specified classes of the public lands, and, among others,
marsh and tide lands, and, as we have seen, repeals in express terms all previous laws inconsistent or in conflict with
it. And, of course, if any previous law existed authorizing
a sale of these lands within five miles of the city of San
Francisco, which the 30th section of this act prohibits, it
must be regarded as repealed.
We need only add, the sale of the lot in question was
made after the passage of this act. There being no authority to sell the land in question or issue the certificate, it follows that the plaintiff is without title, and the court below
was right in giving judgment for the defendant.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in the case, or take any
part in its decision.

DEERY V. CRAY.
1. No person can rely on an estoppel growing out of a transaction to which
he wai neither a party nor a privy, ard which in no manner touches his
rights,
Hence where a plaintiff claims under A. and his deed, defendants who do
not claim under it cannot set up its recitals as estoppels.
2. Where an heir conveys both as heir, and also as executor under a power

in a will which his deed recites, the fact that his deed thus acknowledges
a will does not estop a party dlaiming under the deed to assert that the

grantor inherited as heir.
8. Where numerous leading facts point to the conclusion that every part of

a large tract of land (an old manor) divided into several parts has been
held under an ancient deed (one of the year 1785), from the date of the
deed till the present time, the fact that, every link of the title, in all

