660

iRAILROAD

CO. V.

SOUTTER AND

KNAPP.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

government owned, and it cannot be doubted that all such
as have been placed under the control of the collectors, and
put under the customs locks, and used for that purpose in
conformity to law and the regulations of the Treasury Departnent, were, during the period they were so controlled,
used, and occupied, public storehouses within the meaning
of the provision requiring collectors to include receipts for
storage in their quarterly accounts, and allowing them to
retain out of the same a sum not exceeding two thousand
dollars in any one year.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD CO. V. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.
The act of confirming or setting aside a sale made by a commissioner in
chancery, involving, as it often does, the exercise of a very delicate
judgment and discretion, cannot be regarded as a mere control of the
ministerial duties of an officer in the execution of final process.
flence, under the case of Bronson v. La Crosse Railroad Co. (1 Wallace,
4)5), here approved, such an act belonged, under the Congressional
statutes of July 15th, 1862, and 3d March, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 576
and 807), to the Circuit Cotvrt of Wisconsin, and not to the District
Court, even though the sale was made under a decree of foreclosure in
the last-named court, rendered beore the act of July 15th, 1862, and

when, therefore, the District Court was possessed of full Circuit-Court
powers.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the district of Wisconsin.
This was an appeal by the Milwaukee and Minnesota
Railroad Company Irom an order of court confirming a sale
made by the, marshal under a decree of foreclosure of a
mortgage on the western division of the La Crosse and Mitwaukee Railroad.
The facts out of which the appeal grew were these: The
original decree of foreclosure was rendered by the District
Court of Wisconsin, then possessing full Circuit-Court powers, on tLe 13th of January, 1862; and on the 2d of October,
1862, the marshal made a sale under that decree. In the
meantimee, to wit, on the 15th July; 1862, Congress, by an

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD CO. V. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

661

Statement of the case.

act of that date, had established a Circuit Court for the district of Wisconsin, whereby all causes then pending in the
District Court, which might have been brought, or 'which
could have been originally cognizable in a Circuit Court,
were transferred to the Circuit Court; and the District Court
was deprived of all Circuit-Court powers. The marshal
therefore returned the report of his sale. into the Circuit
Court. This was on the 6th day of October, 1862.
After several orders partially confirming the sale, the Circuit Court, January 17th, 1863, set it aside, and ordered the
marshal to sell again according to the original decree. On
the 25th of April, thereafter, the marshal made another sale.
Congress, however, on he 3d March, 1863, had passed a
statute authorizing the District Courts where they had rendered final judgments or dccrees, prior to the act of July
15th, 1862, in cases which might have been brought, and
could have been originally cognizable in a Circuit Court, "to
issue writs of execution or other final process, or to use such
other powers and proceedings as might be in accordance
with law, to enforce the judgments and decrees aforesaid."
Acting under this law, the marshal reported this sale to the
District Court, and that court made an order of confirmation. The appellants here, applied to the Circuit Court for
a rule on the marshal to make a report of his sale to that
court, which application was refused.
They now appealed from these orders of the Circuit and
District Courts, and sought their reversal, on the ground
that the District Court had no power to act in the matter of
the confirmation of the sale, and that it properly belonged
to the Circuit Court.
Messrs. Cram and Cushing,for the appellants; Messrs. Cary
and Carlisle, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision of this question must depend upon the construction of the act of March 3d, 1.863 ;* for without that act
Thq 'ang 'age of which is given above, in the statement of the case.-

662

RAILROAD CO. V. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

it is very clear that the jurisdiction belonged to the Circuit
Court. We have, on a former occasion, given a construction of that act from which Wte see no reason to depart. In
the case, Bronson'v. La Crosse RailroadCo.,*:we held that the
powers conferred by this act on the District Courts, were
only such as were necessary to control the ministerial duties
of officers in the execution of final powers; and that if other
powers became necessary, recourse must be had to the Circuit Court.
The act of confirming or setting aside a sale made by a
commissioner in chancery,- often involves the exercise of
judgment and discretion as delicate as that called for by any
function which belongs to the court. In the case before us,
over forty exceptions were taken to the marshal's report of
the sale, by th.ree different parties, who resisted its confirmation; and the court delivered an elaborate opinion on the
matter involved in these exceptions, when they were under
consideration on the first sale. This strongly illustrates the
fact, that judicial judgment may be called into exercise by
the action of the court.
In the case of Blossom v. The Railroad Co.,t we held that
the confirmation or rejection of a sale under a chancery decree, required the exercise of such judicial discretiou; and
therefore an appeal could be taken to this court from such
an order.
These principles must control the case before us. They
lead to the conclusion that the action of the District Court
complained of by appellants was without authority, and must
be set aside; and that this case must be remanded to the
Circuit Couft, with directions to enter a rule against the
marshal who made the sale, to report it to that court for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion.
ORDER ACCORDINGLY.
NOTE.

At the same time with this appeal was heard an appeal,
ofl the same record, by the qpposite party, Soutter & Knapp,
1 Wallace, 405.

f 1 Wallace, 655.

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON v. Rwi(S.
Syllabus.

who were complainants in the court below. They had appealed from the original decree of foreclosure, on the ground
that it did not include certain property which they were entitled to have sold under the mortgage. Upon the questions
involved in that appeal, the members of the court who heard
the argument-which was by the same counsel as the appeal by
the other side, their positions only as respected appellant and
appellee being reversed-were equally divided in opinion, and
the decree and orders complained of were therefore affirmed.

THOMPSON V. RIGGS.
1. The eighth section of the act of Congress of 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 764),
to reorganize the courts of the District of Columbia, and which says,
"that if, upon the trial of the cause, an exception be taken, the bill containing it need not be sealed or signed," does not dispense with a regular
bill of exceptions in the way Usual in Circuit Courts of the United States
when the rulings of the court, ,inadmitting or rejecting evidence, or in
giving or refusing instructions, are meant to be brought from the Supreme Court of the District to this court for review. The provision has
reference to carrying such rulings from the special to the general term
of the Supreme Court of the District itself. -PomeroyIs Lessee v. Bank
of Indiana (1 Wallace, 602), allproved.
2. A customer of certain bankers at Washington, D. C., in times when,
specie payments having been lately suspended, coin was acquiring one
value and currency .(paper money) another and less, deposited with
them both coin and paper money; the different deposits being entered
in his pass-hbook, the one as "coin" the other as "currency," &c.
Debts being at this time payable by law only in coin, the bankers requested their customer to make his full balance coin, which he did.
Congress passed, about eight months afterwards, an act making certain
treasury notes lawful money for the payment of debts. The depositor
went on depositing "coin," and "treasury notes" then regarded as
currency, and both were entered accordingly. He afterwards drew for
"coin," for a part of his deposit, exceeding the coin deposited after the
legal tender act, and his check was paid in coin. He afterwards drew
for "coin,"-the bulk of his coin balance deposited before the legal
tender act. Coin was refused and tender made of the notes declared by
Congress a legal tender. On suit brought to recover the market value
of the coin drawn for-the bank teller having testified among other
things that "after the suspension, and particularly after the act making
treasury notes a legal tender, his employers uniformly made with customer, depositing with them a difference, in receiving and paying their

