UNITED STATES V. PICO.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

trespass, for apology or indemnity. But neither an enemy.
nor a neutral, acting the part of an enemy, can demand restitution of captured property on the sole ground of capture
in neutral waters.
We must, therefore, look further into the case.
There is some evidence which justifies suspicion. Several
witnesses state facts which tend to prove that the Peel was
in the employment of the rebel government; and that part,
at least, of the cotton laden upon her, as return cargo, was
in fact rebel property.
There are statements, on the other hand, which make it
probable that the Peel was in truth what she professed to
be, a merchant steamer, belonging to neutral merchants,
and nothing more; that her cargo was consigned in good
faith by neutral owners for sale at Matamoras, or to be conveyed across the i'iver and sold in Texas, as it might lawfully
be, not being contraband; that the cotton was purchased by
neutrals, and on neutral account, with the proceeds of, the
cargo or other money.
In this confliet of evidene we do not think oruselves
warranted in condemning, or in quite excusing the vessel or
her cargo. We shall, therefore, affirm the decree by the
District Court, and direct restitution, without costs or expenses to either party as against the other.
AFFIRMANCE AND DIRECTION ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. PICO.
I. When, in Mexican grants, boundaries are given, and a limitation upon

the quantity embraced within the boundaries is intended, words expressing such intention are generally used.

In their absence the extent

of the grant is only subject to the limitation upon the power of the governor imposod by the colonization law of 1824.
2 Where a doubt arises upon the meaning of the grant as to the quantity
ceded, reference may be had to the juridical possession delivered to the
grantee. This proceeding involved an ascertainment and settlement of
the boundaries of the land granted, by the aljpropriate officers of the gov.

Deqc. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

PICO.

Statement of the case.
ernment, specially designated for that purpose, and had all the force
and efficacy of a judicial determination. It bound the former government, and is equally binding upon the officers of our government.
8. A pueblo, or town of Mexico, once formed and officially recognized, became entitled, under the laws of that country, to the use of certain
lands, for its benefit and the benefit of its inhabitants, and the lands
were upon petition set apart and assigned to it by the government. No
other evidence of title than such assignment was required, nor was any
other given. The disposition of the lands assigned was subject at all
times to the control of the government of the country.

TiiIs was a proceeding foy the confirmation of a claim to
Iands in Califbrnia acquired under the Mexican government.
The claim was for two tracts, one of which was designated
as the Rancho of San Mwgarita and San Onofre; and the
other as the Rancho of Las Flores.
The Rancho of San Margarita and San Onofre was acquired under a grant made in May, 1841. It describes the
land as " bordering to the north on the point called El Ballicito and La Tenega, to the west on the point of San Mateo,
to the south on the boundaries of the Pueblo de las Flores
and El Moro, and to the east on the land of the Cajon. according to what is shown in the sketch annexed to the expediente;" and the testimony in the case showed that these
boundaries were well known in the country and easily
traced. In 1842, juridical possession was given to the
grantees, when the land was measured, and its boundaries
established, and ever since it has been occupied, cultivated,
and improved by the grantees or parties claiming under
them.' In 1845, the concession was approved by the departmental assembly. The resolution of approval, after reciting the concession, and that it was made in conformity
with the requirements of the laws, is as follows:
"It approves of the concession made by the superior government of the department in favor of the native-born Mexican
citizens, Pio Pico and Andres Pico, of the locations known by
the names of San Onofre and Santa Margarita, in extent twelve
square leagues (sitios ganada mayor), in entire conformity with
the law of the 18th of August, 1824, and article fifth'of the regulttions of 21st of November, 1828."

538

UNITED STATES V. PICO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The tract known as the Rancho of Las Flores was acquired
by purchase from, an Indian pueblo or town of that name.
The record showed the existence of the pueblo and the assignment to it of the land in question by the officers of the
was
Mexican government, and that subsequently the
transferred to the Picos, under the supervision and with the
sanction of the local a-uthorities.
The District Court confirmed the claim to both ranches,
stating in the decree that the tract confirmed contained
twenty square leagues, and giving its boundaries specifically. From this decree the United States appealed.
Mr. Stanbery, A. G., and Mr. Wills, for the appellants, and
Mr. Coffey, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
By the decree of the District Court, which is the subject
of appeal in this case, the respondents obtained a confirination of their claim to two tracts of land, containing togcther
an area of twenty square leagues.
One of the tracts is designated as the Rancho of San Margarita and San Onofre, and is described in the concession of
the governor by specific boundaries. The testimony shows
that these boundaries were, at the time, well known in the
country, and easily traced. The concession was made in
May, 1841, and within the year following juridical possession
of the land was given to the grantees; and from that time
khntil the present day it has been occupied, cultivated, and
improved by them, or parties claiming under them.
In July, 1845, the concession was approved by the departmental assembly. The resolution of approval, after designating the tract ceded, adds, "in extent twelve square
leagues;" and these words are supposed by thq appellants
to create a limitation upon the quantity granted.
It is evident, however, that the words are not used for any
such purpose, but merely indicate a conjectural estimate of
the quantity. The concession of the governor, with its specific description, is referred to in the proceedings of the as-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. PICo.

589

Opinion of the court.

sembly, and is stated to have been made in conformity with
1,he requiremcnts of the law. No objection issuggested to
the boundaries given, nor is an intimation made of any intnti6n to exclude from the concession any portion of the
land they embrace or to restrict the concession in any particular.
When, in Mexican grants, boundaries are given, and a
limitation upon the quantity embraced within the boundaries is intended, words expressing such intention are generally used. Thus, in the Fremont case, the boundaries
stated embraced many leagues more than the quantity intended to be granted, and the grant provided ibr the measurement of the designated quantity and the reservation of
the surplus. In the absence of terms of similar import, the
extent of the grant is only subject to the limitation upon the
power of the governor, imposed by the colonization law of
1824.*
o
Were there any doubt of the intention of the governor to
cede all the land contained within the boundaries designated
by him, it would be removed by the juridical possession delivered to the grantees. This proceeding involved an ascertainment and settlement of the boundaries of the lands granted
by the appropriate officers of the government, specially designated for that purpose, and has all the force and efficacy
of a judicial determination.. It bound the former government, and is equally binding upon the officers of our government.
Such is the purport of the recent decision in the case of
Graham v. United Stcies.t In that case the survey made
by the Surveyor-General of the grant confirmed did not
conform to the measurement of the land as shown by the
record of juridical possession, and the District Court, for that
reason, set the survey aside and ordered a nvew survey, which
should correspond with the measurement, holding that the
aetion of the oflicers of the former government, upon the
delivery of possession, furnished insuperable objections to
* United States v. D'Aguirre, 1 Wallace, 316.

t 4 Id. 260.

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. PICO.
Opinion of the court.

any other course. In affirming this decision, this court ex.
pressed its concurrence with the views of the District Court,
and held that a proceeding of that character must control
the officers of the United States in the survey of land
claimed under a confirmed Mexican grant. In other words,
the case decided that the juridical possession was conclusive
as to the boundaries and extent of the land granted.
The other tract included in the confirmation is designated
as the Rancho of Las Flores, atid was acquired by the claimants by purchase from the Indians of the pueblo of that
name. The existence of the pueblo and the assignment to
it of the land in question by the officers of the Mexican government are fully established by the documentary evidence in
the case. The objection of the appellants is founded upon
the absence of any transfer of the title to the pueblo by deed
or other writing. But such transfer was not essential, nor
was it usual. A pueblo once formed and officially recognized became entitled,%under the laws of Mexico to the use
of certain lands, for its benefit and the benefit of its inhabitants, al, the lands were, upon petition, set apart and assigned to it by the goveriment. No other evidence of title
than such assignment was required, nor was any other
given.*
The disposition of the lands assigned was subject at all
times to the control of the government of the country. The
pueblo of Las Flores was an Indian pueblo, and over the inhabitants the government extended a special guardianship.
The transfer of the land to the Picos was made in conformity
with the existing regulations established for the protection of
the Indians, under the supervision and with the approval of
the local authorities, and appears to have been satisfactory to
all parties.
The decree of the District Court must be affirmed, and
it is
SO ORDERED.

* lart v. Burnett, 15 California, 542, 561.

