Dec. 1866.]

PARMELEE V. SIMPSON.

81

Statement of the case.

PARMELEE V. SIMPSON.
1. Where a deed to A., though executed before a mortgage of the same
property to B., is not delivered until after the execution and record of
the mortgage, the mortgage will take precedence of it.
2. The placing of a deed to a party on record, such party being wholly igno..
rant of the existence of the deed, and not having authorized or given
his assent to the record, does not constitute such a delivery as will give
the grantee precedence of a mortgage executed between such a placing
of the deed on record and a formal subsequent delivery.
3. As a general thing a ratification of a grantor's unauthorized delivery can
be made by the grantee; but not when the effect would be to cut out an
intervening mortgage for value.

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Nebraska; the case being thus:
Parmelee filed a bill of complaint against Megeath, Bovey,
and one Simpson, in the District Court for Douglas County,
Nebraska Territory, sitting in chancery, for foreclosure and
sale under a mortgage.
The bill set forth a mortgage executed by Megeath and
Bovey, duly acknowledged on the 171h April, 1858, and duly
recorded on the same day. It stated that Simpson claimed
some interest in the moitgaged premises, and prayed that he
also be made a defendant.
The bill was taken pro conesso against Megeath and Bovey.
Simpson admitted the making and recording of the mortgage, as alleged in the bill, but set up this defence:
APPEAL

"That he (Simpson) is the lawful owner of a portion of the
premises and lands [defining it] described, and was such lawful
owner at the time the mortgage and note were executed, and for
some time before; that he was so seized of said premises in fee
simple on the 15th day of April, 1858" (two days before the
mortgage), "by virtue of a deed from Bovey, and that on the
same day the deed was duly recorded, after having been duly
acknowledged, &c.," before one Sayre, a notary public. And
that this defendant-paid to the said Bovey a valuable and adequate
consideration therefor, as is expressed in said deed.
"That some time in the month of August, A. D. 1860, he learned
VOL. V.

6

82

PARMELEE V. SIMPSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case,

for the first time that a pretended deed, purporting to have been
made and executed by him to Bovey, conveying the premises,
dated April 17th, 1858, but without being duly acknowledged,
was upon th- records of the register's office, but that the same
was a forgery; that he never executed such or any other deed
conveying the premises; that he never received any consideration for the deed from Bovey, or anybody else; nor did he ever
authorize any one to execute the said deed for him."
A proved copy of the deed of April 17th, 1858, set up,
from Bovey to Simr-son, was produced from the office of the
recorder of deeds of the county, but not an original.
The testimony of Simpson himself showed the following
facts: He had come from California to Nebraska, arriving
there for the first time in his life, April 18th; 1858 (three
days after the date of the deed). He first there saw Bovey,
who was an acquaintance of his, on the afternoon of that
day. On the following day, the 19th, Bovey took him out.
to the land and showed it to him, stating that he had conveyed it to him in consideration of certain money previously
received; showing Simpson, then, for the first time, the deed.
Simpson had no knowledge of any intention on Bovey's
part thus to convey the land further than a letter from him
written' at Chillicothe, Ohio, early in December, 1857,' that
he "intended conveying sonic property he h}Id pre-empted."
Simpson took the deed and put it in his trunk at his hotel,
from which, in June, 1858, lie missed it along with other
papers. Bovey had been allowed access to the trunk to look
for another paper. Simpson wrote to ]3ovey in the winter
of 1860 about it, but received no answer. A diligent search
failed to discover it.
The official index at the register's office stated that the
deed had been indexed as received for record, April 15,
1858. But two witnesses, one of whom had been- requested
to attend to the drawing of the mortgage, and another who
had gone with him as a friend to examine the records in the
register's office, testified, in a positive way, that they had
examined very carefully records and indexes on the morning
of the 17th, and that nothing was then on record; that they

Dec. 1866.]

P)ARMELEE V.

SIMPSON-

Argument for the appellant.

had made the examination carefully, because, in a previous
transaction, Bovey had been found "tricky and unreliable,"
and was "pretty well known for turning sharp corners."
Sayre, the notary, before whom the deed purported to be
acknowledged, testified that he had not taken any acknowledgment of a deed from Bovey.
No deed from Simpson to Bovey, it seemed pretty clear,
had ever been executed at all.
The District Court decreed for the complainant, directing
a sale. The Supreme Court of the Territory reversed the
decree; and on appeal from such reversal the case was now
here.

Mr. Carlisle,for the mortgagee, appellant:
It is impossible to read the case without being satisfied
that the pretended conveyance from Bovey to Simpson, on
the eve of the execution of the mortgage, where The terms
doubtless had been already agreed upon, was a mere trick
of Bovey, of which Simpson was then wholly ignorant (he
not having arrived in Nebraska till several days afterwards),
but of which lie subsequently took advantage.
Independently of actual fraud, however, merely executing
a deed, and delivering it to the register for registry, is no
delivery, unless the grantee so direct it or subsequently
agrees to it.*
But even-if the deed were recorded, it was not acknowledged, and so passed no title. The deed itself is not produced by Simpson, but a copy only. Simpson says he has
lost the original. But Sayre, the notary public, proves that
he never took such an acknowledgment.
For some unexplained reason, Bovey placed on record, on
the same day of the execution of the mortgage, a reconveyance from Simpson. Doubtless he knew that be was the
real owner all the time, and perhaps he thought, by this
ingenious contrivance, to cut out the mortgage, executed in
the interim between the two days, and while the title was
Younge v. Guilbeau, 3 Wallace, 636.

84

PARMELEE V. SIMPSON.

[Sup, Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

apparently in Simpson. This reconveyance is proved to be
a forgery.
Upon the whole case, Bovey and Simpson appear to be
confederates in the attempt to defraud the mortgagee, and
to have the land between them, free of its obligation.
Messrs. Rediek and Briggs, contra:
The deed from Bovey to Simpson was in law properly delivered on the 15th of April, 1858.
There are two kinds of delivery.
1. An express delivery, as where the deed is placed directly in the grantee's hands, or in the hands of his agent.
2. Implied or constructive delivery, as where a deed is
placed in the hands of the recorder for the use and benefit
of the grantee, or when it is transmitted by mail to the
grantee, or otherwise. The same is in law a good delivery.
The delivery of the deed in question comes within the latter
class.*
3. In the case at the bar the arrangement for the sale of
the land was made in December, 1857, by letter from Bovey
to Simpson. It appears that Bovey was indebted to Simpson, who then resided in California, and that to pay that
debt Bovey wrote to Simpson that hewould convey the land
to him. In view, perhaps, of this fact'Simpson left California and arrived in Nebraska on the 18th of April, 1858, and
on the next day went with Bovey to th6 land to see it.
Now what was the intention of Bovey in this matter? Was it
not to make a complete conveyance of the land to Simpson?
And this intention is what the authorities point to as decisive of the delivery. If this is wanting, then there is no delivery, even though the deed may be put into the hands of
the grantee; and if the grantee intends to pass the title, it is
wholly immaterial whether the grantee ever obtains the cor* Verplank et al. v. Sterry et al., 12 Johnson, 536, 545; Dawson v. Dawson, 1 Rice's Eq. 243; Ingraham v. Porter, 4 MicCord, 193; Tate v. Tate,
1 Devereux and Battle, 26; Merrils v. Swift, 18 Conn. 257; Lady Superior
-:. 31eNamara, 3 Barbour's Ch. 375; Rathbun v. Rathbun, 6 Barbour, 98;
Lesseo of Mitol 11 v. Ryan, 3 Ohio, New Series, 377.

Dec. 1866.]

PARMELEE V. SIMPSON.

85

Opinion of tho court.

poreal possession of the instrument or not. It would be
wholly unsafe for persons living at a distance from each
other to do business affecting the title to real estate, if the
rule set up by the appellee were to obtain.
The deed was properly recorded on the 15th day of April,
1858, two days before the mortgage was executed. The index, which was exhibited to the court below, shows the entry fairly made, and in its order.
But the appellants seek to impeach and set aside a public
record, by the oral testimony of witnesses years after the
transaction. All this testimony is incompetent. If public
records can be set aside in this cheap way, what safety can
there be in dealing in real estate? What avail are recorded
titles if this kind of testimony be permitted to overturn
then! If the register has failed to do his duty, he is liable
on his bond to the party injured.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no difficulty in this case. It is claimed by Simpson, that he holds, free from the obligation of the mortgage,
the lands, which Bovey conveyed to him, two days before
its execution. The mortgagors, Megeath and Bovey, owned
in severalty the lands mortgaged, and Parmelee seeks to
sell, whatever is embraced in the mortgage, in order to
make his debt. He denies that Simpson's deedcan take
precedence of the mortgage, because, if given for a valuable
consideration, executed and recorded in confbrmity with the
laws of Nebraska, it was never delivered until long after his
security was taken. If this position is sustained by the evidence, there is an end of the controversy, for nothing passes
by a deed until it is delivered.
It is a circumstance of great suspicion that the original
deed was not produced on the trial, as the date of its registry
was disputed, and Sayre, the notary public, denied having
taken the acknowledgment. It is very clear that Bovey was
capable of any fraud, as it is proved that the pretended recoiivej ance from Simpson to him, which was placed on iecord

86

PARMELEE V. SIMPSON.

[Sup. (it

Opinion of the court.

the same day the mortgage was executed and recorded, was
a forgery.
But, conceding that there is not proof enough to discredit
the record, and that Sayre is mistaken, still, the deed cannot
defeat the mortgage, because the delivery-one essential
part to its due execution-did not occur until after the mortgage was admitted to registry.. Simpson was on his way
from California, when Bovey, without his knowledge or
authority, delivered it to the register of deeds for rgcord, and
he' did not arrive in Nebraska until three or four days afterwards, when he first learned what had been done. The
only information which Simpson had concerning the matter
W'as contained in a letter from Bovey, informing him of his
intention to convey to him some pre-empted lands in Nebraska
on his arrival there, in the spring of 1858. To this letter
there was no reply, and there is nothing to show that Simpson knew the quantity or value of the lands, or ever agreed
to receive a conveyance for them in satisfaction of Blovey's
indebtedness to him. And there is not a particle of evidence
that any one was authorized to receive the deed for him.
The placing the deed on record was Bovey's own act, and
done without the* assent- of Simpson. Under this state of
facts there was manifestly no delivery. The execution and
Togistration of a deed, and delivery of it to the register for
that purpose, does not vest the title in the grantee.*
If Simpson had agreed to accept the deed in liquidation
of his debt, and constituted the register his agent to receive
it, then the delivery of the deed to the register would have
been in legal contemplation a delivery to him. But it is
said that he could ratify the acts of Bovey and the register.
This is true, but he did not do this until after the execution
and registration of the mortgage; and this ratification cannot relate back so as to cut out the mortgage. Simpson
acquired no title until after the rights of the mortgagee had
accrued, and he holds it encumbered with the lien of the
mortgage.
* Maynard v. Maynard, 10 Massachusetts, 456; Samson v. Thornton, 2
Metcalf, 281; Younge v. Guilbeau, 3 Wallace, 641.

Dec. 1866.]

WOODWORTH V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

87

Statement of the case.

The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is REand this case is remanded to that court with direc.
tions to enter an order
VERSED,

AFFIRMING THE ]DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

WOODWORTH V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

Where, in case of a collision, one of two parties injured institutes proceedings against the vessel in fault, and at his own expense prosecutes
his suit to condemnation of the vessel, or of the proceeds of her sale in

the registry, another party injured by the'same collision, who has contributed nothing to the litigation to establish the vessel's liability, but
has stood by during that contest, and taken no part in it, cannot share
in the proceeds of the sale of the vessel, until the claim of the first party
is satisfied in full.

Tnrs was a question involving the proper disposition of
the surplus proceeds of the sale of the schooner Harriet
Ross in the Admiralty Court of the Northern District of
Illinois.
The schooner had been libelled in that court for supplies
furnished, to the value of $72, and sold for about $5000.
While the surplus proceeds of this sale were still in the
registry, the Corn Exchange Insurance Company ifiled a lib(,"
against them. The libellant alleged that shortly befbre the
schooner was seized at Chicago by the process of the District Court, a collision had occurred on Lake Ontario, between her and the schooner Flora Watson; that the Flora
and her cargo were sunk by the collisioin; that this was
caused solely by the want of care and skill on the part of
the crew of the Harriet Ross; and that the libellant had
taken risls on the Flora and her cargo, which it had been
compelled to pay, to an amount exceeding $8000.
Bradley, owner of the Harriet Ross at the time of the collision, appeared 4s claimant of the proceeds of her sale, and
defended this suit. An answer was filed by him and testimony taken, and the matter litigated on a considerable body

