BARTON V.

FORSYTH.[

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ties within the district is a sufficient reason for rejecting a
bond which is in all other respects unobjectionable, we are
not inclined to interfere by mandamus with the discretion of
that judge in approving or rejecting a bond offered for his
approval. If we had the right to do this, which is extremely
doubtful, it is unnecessary, as the remedy which is in our
own hands is ample. The case being properly in this court
by appeal, we have, by the fourteenth section of the Judiciary
Act, a right to issue any writ which may be necessary to render our appellate jurisdiction effectual. For this purpose the
writ of supersedeas is eminently proper in a case where the
circumstances justify it, as we think they do in the present
instance. flardeman v. Anderson,* is an example of the exercise of this power precisely in point.
We shall therefore make an order, that upon the filing of
a bond for the sum of $50,000, with the usual conditions, at
any time within thirty days from this date, which shall be approved by the clerk of this court, a supersedeas will issue
from this court to the judge of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Wisconsin, and to the marshal of the United States for said district, commanding a
stay of proceedings on said decree until the further orde
of this court,
TnE SAME BEING SUPERSEDED.

BARTON V. FORSYTH.
1. The appellate jurisdiction of this court on writs of error, under the twentysecond section of the Judiciary Act, is confined by the express words of
the section to final judgments, and the writ of error should be addressed
to the final judgment accordingly.
2. A judgment on a motion made by the plaintiff to set aside a writ of restitution which had been issued in favor of the defendant, and to grant a
writ of restitution to the plaintiff in a case, is not a final judgmentwithin the terms of the said section ; in fact is but an order of court.
4 Howard, 640.

Dec. 1866.]

BARTON

v. FORSYTH.

Opinion of the court.
Hence no jurisdiction exists of a writ of error based on such a pro,
ceeding.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Mr. Ballance,for the plaintiff in error; Mr. Gondu, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action was ejectment for a certain parcel of land situated
in the county of Peoria, State of Illinois, and particularly
described in the declaration. Parties waived a jury and
went to trial upon the general issue before the court, and
the judgment was for the defendant; but a new trial was
granted, on motion of the plaintiff, and at the second trial,
which was to the jury, the verdict and judgment were for
the plaintiff.
All the taxed costs having been paid by the defendant, he
moved the court that the judgment be vacated, and that a
new trial be granted, and the motion was allowed. Third
trial was also to the jury, and the verdict and judgment, as
before, were for the plaintiff. Defendant excepted and sued
out a writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
Mandate of this court, which is in the record, shows that
the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed here at the
December Term, 1857, and the cause remanded for execution
and surh proceedings as. right and justice and the laws of
the United States required. Judgment of affirmance was
accordingly 'rendered on the seventh day of July, 1858, and
.tui order entered that the plaintiff have execution against
the defendant for his costs. Record also shows, that on the
nineteenth day of July, in the same year, a writ of habere
facias possessionem issued on the judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, and the return of the marshal shows that he, on the
third day of September following, put the plaintiff in possession of the premises, as commanded by the writ. Due exe.
cution, therefore, followed final judgment, and there was an
end of all regular proceedings in the suit. Dissatisfied with

BARTON

v.

FORSYTH.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

the result, however, the defendant, on the thirteenth day of
May, 1862, moved the court for a writ of restitution, and on
the fifteenth day of May following the court awarded the
writ, as prayed in the motion.
Writ of restitution in favor of the defendant bears date on
the twenty-seventh day of May, 1863, and it appears to have
been duly served by the marshal.
Turned out of possession of the premises whieh he had
recovered by the judgment of the Circuit Court, duly affirmed in this court, the plaintiff in turn moved the court
for a writ of restitution to restore him to the possession of
the premises. Affidavits were filed and both parties were
duly heard. Conclusion of the court was that the first writ
of restitution had been improvidently issued, and that the
possession of the premises belonged, under the judgment as
affirmed by this court, to the plaintiff.
Foundation of the application for the first writ of restitution was a supposed tax title held by the defendant, not
pleaded or in any manner brought to the notice of the Circuit Court in the trial of the cause; and the foundation for
the second application was, that the hearing of' the first was
without any notice whatever to the party in possession.
Exceptions were taken by the defendant to the order of
the. court setting aside the first writ of restitution and awarding the second'to the plaintiff. Based on those exceptions
the defendant sued out this writ of error, in which it is alleged in substance and effect that a manifest error has happened in the rendition of a certain judgment on a certain
motion, and the proceedings under it, made by the plaintiff
to set aside a certain writ of restitution which had been 'issued out of said court in favor of the defendant, and to
grant a writ of restitution to the plaintiff in a case between
these parties.
Evidently the writ of error is addressed not to the judgment in the case, but to the order of the court in setting
aside the first writ of restitution and in granting the second,
as specified in the bill of exceptions.
Writs of error, under the Judiciary Act, could only issue

Dec. 11866.]

BARTON V. FORSYTH.
Opinion of the court.

from the clerk's office of this court, but it was provided by
the ninth section of the act of the eighth of May, 1792, that
the form of a writ of error approved by any two judges of the
Supreme Court should be forthwith transmitted to the clerks
of the Circuit Courts, and the provision was that they may
issue writs of error agreeably to such form as nearly as the
case may admit, under the seal of such courts, returnable to
the Supreme Court.*
Appellate jurisdiction of this court in writs of error, under
the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, is confined to
final judgments by the express words of the section, and of
course the writ of error should be addressed to the final
judgment. All the forms of a writ of error furnished to
the clerks of the Circuit Courts are to that effect, and those
clerks have no right to change the form without the sanction
at least of two justices of this court. Present writ of error
is not, on its face, addressed to the final judgment in the
case, but to an order of the court made on a motion filed by
the plaintiff long after the writ of possessioin had been issued
and served. Such an order is not a final judgment in any
sense within the meaning of the twenty-second section of
the Judiciary Act.
First order of the court in awarding the writ of restitution
was irregular, because it was inconsistent with the mandate
of this court, which affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court that the plaintiff was entitled to the possession of the
premises. Opposite party was not notified of the application, which doubtless led to the error, as the hearing was
ex parle. Service of the process gave the plaintiff notice of
what had transpired, and he immediately applied to the
court to set the proceedings aside.
Second application was clearly addressed to the discretion
of the court, as it was in the nature of a petition to correct
an order manifestly irregular, for the reason already suggested, and because it had been passed without notice to the
party asking to set it aside.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 278.

VOL. V.

18

194

CAMPBELL V. CITY or KENOSHA.

[Sur. Ct.

Syllabus.

Direct decision of this court in the case of Smilh v. Tra..
budes Ieirs,* was that such an order was no more than the
action of a court on its own process which is submitted to
its own discretion, and that it was not a final judgment in a
civil action nor a decree in a court of equity.
Where a case is brought into this court from the Circuit
Courts by a writ of error, regular in form, if there is no error
in the record the judgment will be affirmed. Affirmance
in such a ease is the proper judgment, because the writ of
error, being addressed to the record, brings up the whole
case, and the court, under the twenty-second section of the
Judiciary Act, has juyisdiction to re-examine the record in
such cases and to reverse or affirm; and if there is no error
in the record, of course the judgment must be affirmcd.t
Present case, however, does not fall within that rule, because the writ of error is special in form and is addressed to
a mere order of the court, passed nearly six years after the
final judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed, the writ
of possession issued, and the possession of the premises
given to the plaintiff, as commanded by the writ.
The case is
DISMISSED FOR THE WANT OF JURISDICTION.

CAMPBELL V. CITY OF KE.NOSHA.

1. Where the legislature of a State passes two acts, one (which by the constitution it had the power to pass) authorizing a city to subscribe a
linited amount ($150,000) of stock to a railroad, another (which, by
the constitution, it had no power to pass) authorizing it to subscribe an
unlimited amount, and the city, professing to act under the one which
authorized the unlimited amount, subscribes the limited amount

($150,000), a subsequent recognition by the legislature of the subscription as legal, validates the subscription.
2. The legislative recognition may be made by implication.
8. A statute which, in the case of such an issue, creates as part of the municipal government an officer whose duty it is to attend to the city's in*9 :Peters, 7.

t" Taylor v. Korton, 2 Black, 484.

