CATHOLIC LEAGUE v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.

1303

Opinion in Chambers

THE CATHOLIC LEAGUE, SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
CHAPTER, ET AL. v. FEMINIST WOMEN'S
HEALTH CENTER, INC., ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-238.

Decided October 11, 1984

An application to stay the California Court of Appeal's order holding that,
under the California Constitution, aborted fetuses in the Los Angeles
County District Attorney's custody may not be turned over to applicants
for the purpose of conducting a religious burial service, is denied because
applicants' claims under the First Amendment of the Federal Constitution are insubstantial.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants ' ask that I stay an order of the California Court
of Appeal, Second Appellate District, which determines,
under state law, the disposition of some 16,000 aborted
fetuses presently in the custody of the Los Angeles County
District Attorney. Because I am satisfied that this appeal
raises no substantial questions of federal law, I will deny the
application.
The fetuses were discovered by a container company on
the premises of a defunct pathology laboratory, and were
turned over to the District Attorney's office. After a period
of indecision concerning the disposition of the fetuses, during
which the District Attorney's office was contacted by several
groups, religious and otherwise, offering various means of
disposal, the District Attorney made public his decision to
turn the fetuses over to a religious organization for the purJUSTICE REHNQUIST,

lApplicants claim that this Court would have appellate jurisdiction over
this case under 28 U. S. C. ยง 1257(2). It is questionable whether this case
would present a proper appeal, since the lower court opinion does not specifically uphold a state constitutional provision against a claim that it is
repugnant to federal law; nevertheless, I would reach the same conclusion
with respect to this application whether a subsequent filing would properly
be considered an appeal or a petition for certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

pose of holding a burial service, and subsequently arranged
for interment in a private cemetery that had offered its space
to the State free of charge.
In the meantime respondent organization had filed an action for declaratory and injunctive relief against the District
Attorney, in the California courts, seeking to prevent him
from turning over the fetuses to a religious group on the
ground that such an action would violate the Establishment
Clauses of the Federal and State Constitutions. Applicants
thereafter contracted with the private cemetery to hold a
religious burial service when the fetuses were interred, and
to place a memorial plaque at the site. The California Court
of Appeal held that the District Attorney's proposal to turn
the fetuses over to a religious organization for purposes of
holding a memorial service would violate the Establishment
Clause of the California Constitution, and another provision
of the California Constitution prohibiting state action indicating a "preference" for any particular religion.'
The
California Supreme Court denied review.
The California Court of Appeal found the District Attorney's proposed actions prohibited by independent religion
clauses of the California Constitution. This Court of course
lacks the power to review such decisions if they are truly independent of questions of federal law. See Uhler v. American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations, 468 U. S. 1310 (1984) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
Applicants contend, however, that as applied the California
Constitution's provisions have the effect of denying them
their rights to free speech, assembly, and exercise of religion
protected by the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution. I think that applicants' federal claims are
insubstantial. Nothing in the order of the California court
2

The California Constitution prohibits laws "respecting an establish-

ment of religion," and also guarantees the "[f]ree exercise and enjoyment
of religion without discrimination or preference ....
"
Cal. Const.,

Art. I, ยง4.

CATHOLIC LEAGUE v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.
1303

1305

Opinion in Chambers

prevents applicants from assembling for purposes of expressing their views with respect to abortion, or from holding a
religious or other memorial service. Applicants would find
in the First Amendment's Speech or Religion Clauses a right
to hold their service as an incident to the actual burial of
the fetuses. But the First Amendment does not entitle
applicants to have the State enhance the impact of their
speech by providing the subjects of a funeral service. The
proper disposition of these fetuses is peculiarly a question
governed by the law of the State of California. The California courts have held that California laws concerned with
avoiding the entanglement of the State with religious causes
prohibit the District Attorney from turning the fetuses over
to applicants for the holding of a religious service. Because I
can find nothing in the First Amendment that is contravened
by the Court of Appeal's holding, I am satisfied that this
Court would not wish to give this case plenary consideration.
The application for a stay is accordingly denied.

