OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Syllabus

469 U. S.

WAINWRIGHT, SECRETARY, FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS v. WITT
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 83-1427.

Argued October 2, 1984-Decided January 21, 1985

Respondent was tried by a jury in a Florida state court and convicted of
first-degree murder. In accordance with the jury's recommendation, he
was sentenced to death. On appeal, respondent claimed that several
prospective jurors had been improperly excluded for cause because of
their opposition to capital punishment, in violation of the decision in
Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 510, but the Florida Supreme Court
affirmed the conviction and sentence. After unsuccessfully seeking
postconviction review in the state courts, respondent filed a petition for
a writ of habeas corpus in Federal District Court under 28 U. S. C.
§ 2254. That court denied the petition. The Court of Appeals reversed
and granted the writ, holding that, on the basis of the voir dire questioning by the prosecutor, one of the prospective jurors was improperly
excused for cause under Witherspoon. The court drew the standard for
determining when a juror may properly be excluded from Witherspoon,
supra,at 522, n. 21, which states that jurors may be excluded for cause if
they make it "unmistakably clear" that they would "automatically" vote
against capital punishment without regard to the evidence or that their
attitude toward the death penalty would prevent them from making an
impartial decision as to the defendant's "guilt."
Held:
1. The proper standard for determining when a prospective juror may
be excluded for cause because of his views on capital punishment is
whether the juror's views would "prevent or substantially impair the
performance of his duties as a juror in accordance with his instructions
and his oath." Adams v. Texas, 448 U. S. 38, 45. In addition to
dispensing with Witherspoon's reference to "automatic" decisionmaking,
this standard does not require that a juror's bias be proved with "unmistakable clarity." Here, given this standard, the Court of Appeals
at a minimum erred in focusing unduly on the lack of clarity of the questioning of the prospective juror, and in focusing on whether her answers
indicated that she would "automatically" vote against the death penalty.
Pp. 418-426.
2. On a petition for habeas corpus under 28 U. S. C. § 2254, the
question of challenge of a prospective juror for bias is a "factual issue"

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Syllabus

subject to § 2254(d), which requires a federal reviewing court to accord
any findings of the state courts on "factual issues" a "presumption of
correctness." Patton v. Yount, 467 U. S. 1025. This rule applies to a
trial court's determination, such as the one made in this case, that a
prospective capital sentencing juror was properly excluded for cause.
Pp. 426-430.
3. Under the facts of this case, the prospective juror in question was
properly excused for cause. There were adequate "written indicia" of
the trial judge's factual finding to satisfy § 2254(d). The transcript
of voir dire shows that the prospective juror was questioned in the
presence of both counsel and the trial judge, that at the end of the colloquy between the prosecutor and the juror the prosecutor challenged
for cause, and that the challenge was sustained. Nothing more was
required. The judge was not required to write a specific finding or
announce for the record his conclusion that, or his reasons why, the
prospective juror was biased. The judge's finding is therefore "presumed correct" absent anything in the record showing one of the reasons
enumerated in the statute for avoiding the presumption. The question
under the statute is whether the trial court's findings are fairly
supported by the record, and here there is ample support for the trial
judge's finding that the prospective juror's views would have prevented
or substantially impaired the performance of her duties as a juror.
Pp. 430-435.
714 F. 2d 1069 and 723 F. 2d 769, reversed.
REHNQUIST, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and WHITE, BLACKMUN, POWELL, and O'CONNOR, JJ., joined.
STEVENS, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 436.
BRENNAN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL, J., joined,
post, p. 439.

Robert J. Landry, Assistant Attorney General of Florida,
argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs was
Jim Smith, Attorney General.

William C. McLain argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.*
*A brief of amici curiae urging reversal was filed for the Texas District
and County Attorneys Association et al. by David Cramp, Charles A.
Graddick, Attorney General of Alabama, Ed Carnes, Assistant Attorney
General, Robert R. Corbin, Attorney General of Arizona, William J.
Schafer III, Assistant Attorney General, Steve Clark, Attorney General

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case requires us to examine once again the procedures
for selection of jurors in criminal trials involving the possible
imposition of capital punishment, see Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 510 (1968), and to consider standards for
federal courts reviewing those procedures upon petition for
a writ of habeas corpus.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST

I

Respondent Johnny Paul Witt was convicted of firstdegree murder in Florida and sentenced to death. The murder was committed while respondent and a friend were bowand-arrow hunting. The evidence at trial showed that the
two had spoken together on other occasions about killing
a human, and had even stalked persons as they would stalk
animal prey. On the day in question, respondent, then aged
30, and his younger accomplice were hunting in a wooded
area near a trail often used by children. When the victim,
an 11-year-old boy, rode by on his bicycle, respondent's
accomplice hit the child on the head with a star bit from
a drill. Respondent and his accomplice then gagged the
stunned victim, placed him in the trunk of respondent's
car, and drove to a deserted grove. Upon opening the
trunk, the conspirators discovered that the victim had died
by suffocating from the gag. The two committed various
sexual and violent acts on the body, then dug a grave and
buried it.
of Arkansas, Victra L. Fewell, Assistant Attorney General, John K. Van
de Kamp, Attorney General of California, Edward P. O'Brian, Assistant
Attorney General, Austin J. McGuigan, Chief State's Attorney of Connecticut, John M. Massameno, Assistant State's Attorney, Edwin Lloyd
Pittman, Attorney General of Mississippi, William S. Boyd III, Assistant
Attorney General, John Ashcroft, Attorney General of Missouri, John
M. Morris, Assistant Attorney General, Michael C. Turpen, Attorney
General of Oklahoma, Robert W. Cole, Assistant Attorney General, David
G. Wilkinson, Attorney General of Utah, and Earl F. Dorius, Assistant
Attorney General.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

Respondent was tried by a jury and convicted of firstdegree murder. In accordance with the recommendation of
the jury, the trial judge sentenced him to death. On appeal
to the Florida Supreme Court respondent raised a number
of claims, one of which was that several prospective jurors
had been improperly excluded for cause because of their
opposition to capital punishment, in violation of this Court's
decision in Witherspoon v. Illinois, supra. The Florida
Supreme Court affirmed the conviction and sentence, and
this Court denied certiorari. Witt v. State, 342 So. 2d 497,
cert. denied, 434 U. S. 935 (1977). After unsuccessfully
petitioning for postconviction review in the state courts, see
Witt v. State, 387 So. 2d 922 (Fla.), cert. denied, 449 U. S.
1067 (1980), respondent filed this petition for a writ of habeas
corpus in the United States District Court for the Middle
District of Florida, raising numerous constitutional claims.
That court denied the petition. On appeal, the Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed and granted the
writ. 714 F. 2d 1069 (1983), modified, 723 F. 2d 769 (1984).
The only claim the Eleventh Circuit found meritorious was
respondent's Witherspoon claim. The court found the following exchange during voir dire, between the prosecutor
and venireman Colby, to be insufficient to justify Colby's
excusal for cause: 1
"[Q. Prosecutor:] Now, let me ask you a question,
ma'am. Do you have any religious beliefs or personal
beliefs against the death penalty?
"[A. Colby:] I am afraid personally but not"[Q]: Speak up, please.
Respondent argued in the Court of Appeals that 3 of the 11 prospective
jurors excused for cause-veniremen Colby, Gehm, and Miller-were improperly excused. The court considered Mrs. Colby's colloquy the "least
certain statement of inability to follow the law as instructed," and limited
its discussion to her questioning. See 714 F. 2d, at 1081 (emphasis in
original). We agree that Mrs. Colby provided the least clear example
of a biased venireman, and we therefore need not discuss the voir dire of
veniremen Gehm and Miller.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

"[A]: I am afraid of being a little personal, but definitely
not religious.
"[Q]: Now, would that interfere with you sitting as a
juror in this case?
"[A]: I am afraid it would.
"[Q]: You are afraid it would?
"[A]: Yes, Sir.
"[QI: Would it interfere with judging the guilt or
innocence of the Defendant in this case?
"[A]: I think so.
"[Q]: You think it would.
"[A]: I think it would.
"[Q]: Your honor, I would move for cause at this point.
"THE COURT: All right. Step down." Tr. 266-267.
Defense counsel did not object or attempt rehabilitation.
In Witherspoon, this Court held that the State infringes a
capital defendant's right under the Sixth and Fourteenth
Amendments to trial by an impartial jury when it excuses for
cause all those members of the venire who express conscientious objections to capital punishment. As the Court of
Appeals in this case noted, however, the Witherspoon Court
also recognized the State's legitimate interest in excluding
those jurors whose opposition to capital punishment would
not allow them to view the proceedings impartially, and who
therefore might frustrate administration of a State's death
penalty scheme. The Court of Appeals drew the standard
for determining when a juror may properly be excluded from
Witherspoon's footnote 21; jurors may be excluded for cause
if they make it
"unmistakably clear (1) that they would automatically
vote against the imposition of capital punishment without regard to any evidence that might be developed at
the trial of the case before them, or (2) that their attitude
toward the death penalty would prevent them from
making an impartial decision as to the defendant's
guilt." 391 U. S., at 522, n. 21 (emphasis in original).

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

The Court of Appeals construed our decisions to require that
jurors expressing objections to the death penalty be given
"great leeway" before their expressions justify dismissal for
cause. "A prospective juror may even concede that his or
her feelings about the death penalty would possibly color an
objective determination of the facts of a case without admitting of the necessary partiality to justify excusal." 714 F.
2d, at 1076-1080. The court concluded that the colloquy
with venireman Colby reprinted above did not satisfy the
Witherspoon standard. Colby's limited expressions of "feelings and thoughts" failed to "unequivocally state that she
would automatically be unable to apply the death penalty
.. "
Id., at 1082. In part, the court found the ambiguity
in the record was caused by the lack of clarity of the prosecutor's questions. The prosecutor's question whether Colby's
feelings about the death penalty would "interfere" with her
sitting was ambiguous, because the fact of such "interference" failed to satisfy Witherspoon's requirement that she be
unable to apply the death sentence under any circumstances.
The court found its holding consistent with Circuit precedent
applying the Witherspoon standard. See Granviel v. Estelle,
655 F. 2d 673 (CA5 1981); Burns v. Estelle, 626 F. 2d 396
(CA5 1980).
In a footnote, the Court of Appeals noted its uncertainty
over whether a state trial court's finding of bias should be
accorded a presumption of correctness under the federal
statute governing habeas corpus proceedings, 28 U. S. C.
§2254(d). The court stated, however, that under the circumstances it would reach the same result regardless of the
standard of review. 714 F. 2d, at 1083, n. 10. Because this
case raises questions on which there is considerable confusion
in the lower courts, concerning the degree of deference that
a federal habeas court should pay to a state trial judge's
determination that a juror may be excused for cause under
Witherspoon, see Darden v. Wainwright, 725 F. 2d 1526,
1528-1530 (CAll 1984); O'Bryan v. Estelle, 714 F. 2d 365

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

(CA5 1983), cert. denied, 465 U. S. 1013 (1984); Texas v.
Mead, 465 U. S. 1041, 1043 (1984) (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari), and because of what seemed to
us as more general confusion surrounding the application of
Witherspoon, we granted certiorari. 466 U. S. 957. We
reverse.
II
Witherspoon is best understood in the context of its facts.
The case involved the capital sentencing procedures for the
State of Illinois. Under the Illinois death sentencing statute, the jury was asked to decide only whether death was
"the proper penalty" in a given case. Another Illinois statute provided:
"In trials for murder it shall be a cause for challenge of
any juror who shall, on being examined, state that he has
conscientious scruples against capital punishment, or
that he is opposed to the same." Witherspoon, 391
U. S., at 512.
Pursuant to this statute, nearly half the veniremen at
Witherspoon's trial were excused for cause because they
"expressed qualms about capital punishment." Id., at 513.
This Court held that under this procedure the jury obtained
would not be the impartial jury required by the Sixth
Amendment, but rather a jury "uncommonly willing to condemn a man to die." Id., at 521. It concluded that "a sentence of death cannot be carried out if the jury that imposed
or recommended it was chosen by excluding veniremen for
cause simply because they voiced general objections to the
death penalty or expressed conscientious or religious scruples against its infliction." Id., at 522.
Despite Witherspoon's limited holding, later opinions in
this Court and the lower courts have referred to the language
in footnote 21, or similar language in Witherspoon's footnote
9, as setting the standard for judging the proper exclusion of
a juror opposed to capital punishment. See, e. g., Maxwell
v. Bishop, 398 U. S. 262, 265 (1970); Boulden v. Holman, 394

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

U. S. 478, 482 (1969); 2 Hackathorn v. Decker, 438 F. 2d
1363, 1366 (CA5 1971); People v. Washington, 71 Cal. 2d
1061, 1091-1092, 458 P. 2d 479, 496-497 (1969). Later cases
in the lower courts state that a venireman may be excluded
only if he or she would "automatically" vote against the death
penalty, and even then this state of mind must be "unambiguous," or "unmistakably clear." See, e. g., Burns v. Estelle,
supra, at 398.
But more recent opinions of this Court demonstrate no ritualistic adherence to a requirement that a prospective juror
make it "unmistakably clear ... that [she] would automatically vote against the imposition of capital punishment. .... "
In Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586, 595-596 (1978), prospective
capital jurors were asked:
"'[D]o you feel that you could take an oath to well and
truely [sic] try this case ... and follow the law, or
is your conviction so strong that you cannot take an oath,
knowing that a possibility exists in regard to capital
punishment?"'
We held that the veniremen who answered that they could
not "take the oath" were properly excluded. Although the
Lockett opinion alluded to the second half of the footnote 21
standard, dealing with a juror's inability to decide impartially
a defendant's guilt, the Court did not refer to the "automatically" language. Instead, it simply determined that each of
the excluded veniremen had made it "'unmistakably clear'
that they could not be trusted to 'abide by existing law' and
'to follow conscientiously the instructions' of the trial judge."
Id., at 596.
This Court again examined the Witherspoon standard in
Adams v. Texas, 448 U. S. 38 (1980). Adams involved the
2

Maxwell and Boulden cited the following language from footnote 9:

"Unless a venireman states unambiguously that he would automatically
vote against the imposition of capital punishment no matter what the trial
might reveal, it simply cannot be assumed that that is his position." Maxwell, 398 U. S., at 265; Boulden, 394 U. S., at 482 (emphasis added).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

Texas capital sentencing scheme, wherein jurors were asked
to answer three specific questions put by the trial judge.
The court was required to impose the death sentence if each
question was answered affirmatively. A Texas statute provided that a prospective capital juror "'shall be disqualified
... unless he states under oath that the mandatory penalty
of death or imprisonment for life will not affect his deliberations on any issue of fact."' Id., at 42. Before deciding
whether certain jurors had been properly excluded pursuant
to this statute, this Court attempted to discern the proper
standard for making such a determination.
The Court
discussed its prior opinions, noting the Witherspoon Court's
recognition, in footnote 21, that States retained a "legitimate
interest in obtaining jurors who could follow their instructions and obey their oaths." 448 U. S., at 44. The Court
concluded:
"This line of cases establishes the general proposition
that a juror may not be challenged for cause based on his
views about capital punishment unless those views would
prevent or substantially impair the performance of his
duties as a juror in accordancewith his instructions and
his oath. The State may insist, however, that jurors
will consider and decide the facts impartially and conscientiously apply the law as charged by the court."
Id., at 45 (emphasis added).
The Court went on to hold that as applied in that case certain
veniremen had been improperly excluded under the Texas
statute, because their acknowledgment that the possible
imposition of the death penalty would or might "affect" their
deliberations was meant only to indicate that they would be
more emotionally involved or would view their task "with
greater seriousness and gravity." Id., at 49.1 The Court
3

The Court cited the following answer of venireman Jenson, whom the
Court found was improperly excluded: "'Well, I think it probably would

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

reasoned that such an "effect" did not demonstrate that the
prospective jurors were unwilling or unable to follow the law
or obey their oaths.
The state of this case law leaves trial courts with the difficult task of distinguishing between prospective jurors whose
opposition to capital punishment will not allow them to apply
the law or view the facts impartially and jurors who, though
opposed to capital punishment, will nevertheless conscientiously apply the law to the facts adduced at trial. Although
this task may be difficult in any event, it is obviously made
more difficult by the fact that the standard applied in Adams
differs markedly from the language of footnote 21. The tests
with respect to sentencing and guilt, originally in two prongs,
have been merged; the requirement that a juror may be
excluded only if he would never vote for the death penalty is
now missing; gone too is the extremely high burden of proof.
In general, the standard has been simplified.
There is good reason why the Adams test is preferable for
determining juror exclusion. First, although given Witherspoon's facts a court applying the general principles of
Adams could have arrived at the "automatically" language
of Witherspoon's footnote 21, we do not believe that language can be squared with the duties of present-day capital
sentencing juries. In Witherspoon the jury was vested
with unlimited discretion in choice of sentence. Given this
discretion, a juror willing to consider the death penalty
arguably was able to "follow the law and abide by his oath"
in choosing the "proper" sentence. Nothing more was
required. Under this understanding the only veniremen
who could be deemed excludable were those who would
[affect my deliberations] because afterall [sic], you're talking about a
man's life here. You definitely don't want to take it lightly."' 448 U. S.,
at 50, n. 7. The Court also found other veniremen improperly excluded
who had been unable to state whether their views would or would not
"affect" their deliberations. Id., at 50.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

never vote for the death sentence or who could not impartially judge guilt.
After our decisions in Furman v. Georgia, 408 U. S. 238
(1972), and Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U. S. 153 (1976), however,
sentencing juries could no longer be invested with such discretion. As in the State of Texas, many capital sentencing
juries are now asked specific questions, often factual, the answers to which will determine whether death is the appropriate penalty. In such circumstances it does not make sense to
require simply that a juror not "automatically" vote against
the death penalty; whether or not a venireman might vote for
death under certain personal standards, the State still may
properly challenge that venireman if he refuses to follow the
statutory scheme and truthfully answer the questions put by
the trial judge. To hold that Witherspoon requires anything
more would be to hold, in the name of the Sixth Amendment
right to an impartial jury, that a State must allow a venireman to sit despite the fact that he will be unable to view the
case impartially.4
Second, the statements in the Witherspoon footnotes are
in any event dicta. The Court's holding focused only on
circumstances under which prospective jurors could not be
excluded; under Witherspoon's facts it was unnecessary to
decide when they could be. This Court has on other occasions similarly rejected language from a footnote as "not
controlling." See McDaniel v. Sanchez, 452 U. S. 130, 141
(1981).
'For similar reasons the references to "automatic" decisionmaking in
both Maxwell v. Bishop, 398 U. S. 262 (1970), and Boulden v. Holman,
394 U. S. 478 (1969), also can be discounted. At the time those cases were
decided the death sentencing statutes in Arkansas and Alabama, respectively, apparently allowed juries unlimited discretion in imposing the death
sentence. In addition, both cases involved jurors who were excused
merely because they had "conscientious" objections to, or did not "believe
in," the death penalty. Maxwell, supra, at 264-265; Boulden, supra, at
483-484.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

Finally, the Adams standard is proper because it is in
accord with traditional reasons for excluding jurors and
with the circumstances under which such determinations are
made. We begin by reiterating Adams' acknowledgment
that "Witherspoon is not a ground for challenging any
prospective juror. It is rather a limitation on the State's
power to exclude . . . ." Adams v. Texas, 448 U. S., at
47-48. Exclusion of jurors opposed to capital punishment
began with a recognition that certain of those jurors might
frustrate the State's legitimate interest in administering
constitutional capital sentencing schemes by not following
their oaths. Witherspoon simply held that the State's power
to exclude did not extend beyond its interest in removing
those particular jurors. But there is nothing talismanic
about juror exclusion under Witherspoon merely because
it involves capital sentencing juries. Witherspoon is not
grounded in the Eighth Amendment's prohibition against
cruel and unusual punishment, but in the Sixth Amendment.
Here, as elsewhere, the quest is for jurors who will conscientiously apply the law and find the facts. That is what
an "impartial" jury consists of, and we do not think, simply
because a defendant is being tried for a capital crime, that he
is entitled to a legal presumption or standard that allows jurors to be seated who quite likely will be biased in his favor.
As with any other trial situation where an adversary
wishes to exclude a juror because of bias, then, it is the
adversary seeking exclusion who must demonstrate, through
questioning, that the potential juror lacks impartiality. See
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 157 (1879). It is
then the trial judge's duty to determine whether the challenge is proper. This is, of course, the standard and procedure outlined in Adams, but it is equally true of any situation
where a party seeks to exclude a biased juror. See, e. g.,
Patton v. Yount, 467 U. S. 1025, 1036 (1984) (where a criminal defendant sought to excuse a juror for cause and the trial
judge refused, the question was simply "did [the] juror swear

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

that he could set aside any opinion he might hold and decide
the case on the evidence, and should the juror's protestations
of impartiality have been believed").
We therefore take this opportunity to clarify our decision
in Witherspoon, and to reaffirm the above-quoted standard
from Adams as the proper standard for determining when a
prospective juror may be excluded for cause because of his or
her views on capital punishment. That standard is whether
the juror's views would "prevent or substantially impair

the performance of his duties as a juror in accordance with
his instructions and his oath." 5

We note that, in addition

to dispensing with Witherspoon's reference to "automatic"
decisionmaking, this standard likewise does not require that
a juror's bias be proved with "unmistakable clarity." This
is because determinations of juror bias cannot be reduced
to question-and-answer sessions which obtain results in the
manner of a catechism. What common sense should have
realized experience has proved: many veniremen simply can5

The dissent chides us for our failure to discuss in greater detail the
Witherspoon case, and apparently seeks to remedy this defect by devoting
page after page to its own exegesis of that decision. Much of this exegesis, however, is a latter-day version of a "fair cross section" theme barely
adumbrated by that opinion. But even accepting the dissent's latter-day
underpinnings for Witherspoon, that case represented a necessary balancing of the accused defendant's right to a jury panel drawn from a "fair
cross section of the community"-which if carried to its logical conclusion
would require that a juror be seated who frankly avowed that he could
not and would not follow the judge's instructions on the law-against the
traditional right of a party to challenge a juror for bias-which if carried to
its logical extreme would permit exclusion from jury panels of groups of
people whose general philosophical views might have no bearing on their
ability to follow a judge's instructions. We adhere to the essential balance
struck by the Witherspoon decision rendered in 1968, if not to the version
of it presented by today's dissent; we simply modify the test stated in
Witherspoon's footnote 21 to hold that the State may exclude from capital
sentencing juries that "class" of veniremen whose views would prevent or
substantially impair the performance of their duties in accordance with
their instructions or their oaths.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

not be asked enough questions to reach the point where their
bias has been made "unmistakably clear"; these veniremen
may not know how they will react when faced with imposing
the death sentence, or may be unable to articulate, or may
wish to hide their true feelings.6 Despite this lack of clarity

in the printed record, however, there will be situations where
6 See,

for example, the excerpts of the voir dire of venireman Pfeffer set
out in O'Bryan v. Estelle, 714 F. 2d 365, 379 (CA5 1983), cert. denied, 465
U. S. 1013 (1984):
"'THE COURT: Well, the law requires that we have to have a definite
answer.
"'[A]: I understand, right.
"'THE COURT: Because the law does allow people to be excused because
of certain beliefs that could be prejudicial or biased for one side or the
other, and both sides just want to know if you can keep an open mind, consider the entire full range of punishment, whatever that may be, and under
the proper set of circumstances, if they do exist and you feel they exist,
that you could return that verdict. And that's in essence what they're
asking.
"'[A]: Indirectly, I guess I would have to say no.
"'THE COURT: You could not?
"'[A]: I would have to say no then, to give you a yes or no answer.
"'THE COURT: Then, am I to believe by virtue of that answer that
regardless of what the facts would reveal, regardless of how horrible the
circumstances may be, that you would automatically vote against the
imposition of the death penalty?
"'[A]: As I say, I don't know.
"'THE COURT: Well, that's the question I have to have a yes or no to.
"'[A]: Right.
"'THE COURT: And you're the only human being alive who knows,
Mr. Pfeffer.
"'[A]: Right, I understand. If I have to make a choice between yes and
no, I would say I couldn't make the judgment."'
Some period later, juror Pfeffer gave the following answer:
"'THE COURT: You yourself are in such a frame of mind that regardless
of how horrible the facts and circumstances are, that you would automatically vote against the imposition of the death penalty? Is that correct?
"'[A]: Well, if it says a yes or no, I would have to say yes, I would
automatically vote against, to give a correct answer.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

the trial judge is left with the definite impression that a prospective juror would be unable to faithfully and impartially
apply the law. For reasons that will be developed more fully
infra, this is why deference must be paid to the trial judge
who sees and hears the juror.
Given this standard, it is clear that the Court of Appeals
below erred at least in part; the court focused unduly on
the lack of clarity of the questioning of venireman Colby,
and on whether her answers indicated that she would "automatically" vote against the death penalty. Since there
are portions of the Court of Appeals' opinion that suggest
that its result could be squared with Adams, however, we
proceed to discuss another very important question in the
administration of Witherspoon challenges-the degree of
deference that a federal habeas court must pay to a state
trial judge's determination of bias.
III
This case arises from respondent's petition for habeas corpus under 28 U. S. C. § 2254, and therefore a federal reviewing court is required to accord any findings of the state courts
on !'factual issues" a "presumption of correctness" under 28
U. S. C. §2254(d). 7 Although the District Court relied on
I Section

2254(d) provides:
"In any proceeding instituted in a Federal court by an application for a
writ of habeas corpus by a person in custody pursuant to the judgment of a
State court, a determination after a hearing on the merits of a factual issue,
made by a State court of competent jurisdiction in a proceeding to which
the applicant for the writ and the State or an officer or agent thereof were
parties, evidenced by a written finding, written opinion, or other reliable
and adequate written indicia, shall be presumed to be correct, unless the
applicant shall establish or it shall otherwise appear, or the respondent
shall admit"(1) that the merits of the factual dispute were not resolved in the State
court hearing;
"(2) that the factfinding procedure employed by the State court was not
adequate to afford a full and fair hearing;
"(3) that the material facts were not adequately developed at the State
court hearing;

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

this section and accorded deference to the state trial judge's
finding of bias, Witt v. Wainwright, No. 80-545-CIV-T-GC
(MD Fla., May 14, 1981), the Court of Appeals did not decide
whether this finding was subject to the presumption because
in its opinion the facts of the case required reversal of the

sentence "under even the least rigorous standard of appellate
review."

714 F. 2d, at 1083, n. 10.

The court did note

confusion over whether §2254(d) applies to a Witherspoon
finding, however, and subsequently the Eleventh Circuit
adopted the position that such a finding was a "mixed
question of law and fact" not subject to the section. See
Darden v. Wainwright, 725 F. 2d, at 1528-1530.
This Court has recently decided several cases dealing with
the scope of the § 2254(d) presumption. See, e. g., Patton v.
Yount, 467 U. S. 1025 (1984); Rushen v. Spain, 464 U. S.114
"(4) that the State court lacked jurisdiction of the subject matter or over
the person of the applicant in the State court proceeding;
"(5) that the applicant was an indigent and the State court, in depriva-

tion of his constitutional right, failed to appoint counsel to represent him in
the State court proceeding;
"(6) that the applicant did not receive a full, fair, and adequate hearing
in the State court proceeding; or
"(7) that the applicant was otherwise denied due process of law in the
State court proceeding;
"(8) or unless that part of the record of the State court proceeding in
which the determination of such factual issue was made, pertinent to a
determination of the sufficiency of the evidence to support such factual
determination, is produced as provided for hereinafter, and the Federal
court on a consideration of such part of the record as a whole concludes that
such factual determination is not fairly supported by the record:
"And in an evidentiary hearing in the proceeding in the Federal court,
when due proof of such factual determination has been made, unless the
existence of one or more of the circumstances respectively set forth
in paragraphs numbered (1) to (7), inclusive, is shown by the applicant,
otherwise appears, or is admitted by the respondent, or unless the court
concludes pursuant to the provisions of paragraph numbered (8) that the
record in the State court proceeding, considered as a whole, does not fairly
support such factual determination, the burden shall rest upon the applicant to establish by convincing evidence that the factual determination by
the State court was erroneous."

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

(1983); Marshallv. Lonberger, 459 U. S. 422 (1983); Sumner
v. Mata, 455 U. S. 591 (1982) (Sumner II); Sumner v. Mata,
449 U. S. 539 (1981) (Sumner I). These cases have empha-

sized that state-court findings of fact are to be accorded the
presumption of correctness. See Sumner II, supra, at 597,
n. 10; Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U. S. 335, 342 (1980). 8 Last
Term, in Patton, supra, we held that a trial judge's finding
that a particular venireman was not biased and therefore was
properly seated was a finding of fact subject to § 2254(d).
We noted that the question whether a venireman is biased
has traditionally been determined through voir dire culminat-

ing in a finding by the trial judge concerning the venireman's
state of mind. We also noted that such a finding is based
upon determinations of demeanor and credibility that are
peculiarly within a trial judge's province.' Such determinations were entitled to deference even on direct review; "[t]he

respect paid such findings in a habeas proceeding certainly
should be no less."
8

Id., at 1038.'

1In Cuyler, 446 U. S., at 342, this Court held that "mixed determination~s] of law and fact" are not subject to the § 2254(d) presumption.
I In Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 156-157 (1879), this Court
stated:
"[T]he manner of the juror while testifying is oftentimes more indicative of
the real character of his opinion than his words. That is seen below, but
cannot always be spread upon the record. Care should, therefore, be
taken in the reviewing court not to reverse the ruling below upon such a
question of fact, except in a clear case."
10
1In O'Bryan v. Estelle, 714 F. 2d, at 392 (Higginbotham, J., concurring
specially), Judge Higginbotham artfully discusses those factors, in addition
to the trial court's advantage of having seen and heard the juror, which
dictate deference to the trial judge's decision under these circumstances.
He suggests deference is mandated in general in the interest of finality-to
preserve a trial court's integrity as a court of law, instead of as an "entrance gate" for fact collecting subject to appellate review. In addition, he
points out that on habeas review, comity and federalism indicate the need
to defer to the independent mechanisms of state government that already
have reached one decision on the same facts. See also Darden v. Wainwright, 725 F. 2d 1526, 1551 (CAll 1984) (Fay, J., concurring in part and
dissenting in part).

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

Patton's holding applies equally well to a trial court's
determination that a prospective capital sentencing juror
was properly excluded for cause. In Dardenv. Wainwright,
supra, at 1529, the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
reached a contrary conclusion because it viewed the exclusion
of jurors under Witherspoon as a "mixed question of law and
fact." But the Darden court reached its conclusion because
it labored under the misapprehension that the standard for
determining exclusion was that found in Witherspoon's footnote 21-which imposed "a strict legal standard" and "a very
high standard of proof." 725 F. 2d, at 1528. Given this
rather complex law, the court reasoned, a prospective juror's
answers would not alone decide the issues; the trial judge
must still interpret them in light of the legal standard. Since
the trial court's function was application of law to fact, the
determination was subject to independent review.
It will not always be easy to separate questions of "fact"
from "mixed questions of law and fact" for § 2254(d) purposes,
cf. Patton, supra, at 1037, n. 12. But it is nevertheless
clear, based on the foregoing discussion concerning the
standard for exclusion, that reasoning such as that found
in Darden is destined for the same end as the footnote upon
which it is based. Once it is recognized that excluding prospective capital sentencing jurors because of their opposition
to capital punishment is no different from excluding jurors
for innumerable other reasons which result in bias, Patton
must control. The trial judge is of course applying some
kind of legal standard to what he sees and hears, but his
predominant function in determining juror bias involves
credibility findings whose basis cannot be easily discerned
from an appellate record. These are the "factual issues"
that are subject to § 2254(d).
In so holding, we in no way denigrate the importance of an
impartial jury. We reiterate what this Court stressed in
Dennis v. United States, 339 U. S. 162, 168 (1950): "[T]he
trial court has a serious duty to determine the question of
actual bias, and a broad discretion in its rulings on challenges

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

therefor. .

.

469 U. S.

.In exercising its discretion, the trial court must

be zealous to protect the rights of an accused."
IV
Turning to the facts, we conclude that juror Colby was
properly excused for cause. Applying the analysis required
by § 2254(d), we have already determined that the question of
challenge for bias is a "factual issue" covered by the section.
Nor does respondent seriously urge that the trial court's
decision to excuse juror Colby for bias was not a "determination after a hearing on the merits." Respondent does argue,
however, that this conclusion was not "evidenced by a written finding, written opinion, or other reliable and adequate
written indicia. . .

."

We disagree.

The transcript of the voir dire reprinted above shows that
juror Colby was questioned in the presence of both counsel
and the judge; at the end of the colloquy the prosecution
challenged for cause; and the challenge was sustained when
the judge asked juror Colby to "step down." Nothing more
was required under the circumstances to satisfy the statute.
Anyone familiar with trial court practice knows that the
court reporter is relied upon to furnish an accurate account of
what is said in the courtroom. The trial judge regularly relies upon this transcript as written indicia of various findings
and rulings; it is not uncommon for a trial judge to merely
make extemporaneous statements of findings from the bench.
Our conclusion is strengthened by a review of available
alternatives. We decline to require the judge to write out
in a separate memorandum his specific findings on each juror
excused. A trial judge's job is difficult enough without
senseless make-work. Nor do we think under the circumstances that the judge was required to announce for the
record his conclusion that juror Colby was biased, or his
reasoning. The finding is evident from the record. See
Marshall v. Lonberger, 459 U. S., at 433. In this regard it
is noteworthy that in this case the court was given no reason
to think that elaboration was necessary; defense counsel did

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

not see fit to object to juror Colby's recusal, or to attempt
rehabilitation. ,
The finding of the trial judge is therefore "presumed correct" unless one of the enumerated reasons for avoiding the
presumption is present here. Respondent does not suggest
that paragraphs 1 through 7 are applicable; he must therefore
rest his case on the exception in paragraph 8--that the finding of bias is "not fairly supported" by the record viewed
"as a whole." Respondent attacks the record in two ways.
First, he notes that venireman Colby was the first juror
questioned, and claims that from the record there is no way
to determine whether the trial judge applied the correct
standard. As we have stated on other occasions, however,
where the record does not indicate the standard applied by a
state trial judge, he is presumed to have applied the correct
one. See Marshall v. Lonberger, supra, at 433; LaVallee v.
Delle Rose, 410 U. S.690, 694-695 (1973); Townsend v. Sain,
372 U. S. 293, 314-315 (1963). Here, in addition, there is
every indication that the judge indeed applied the correct
standard. Although the judge did not participate in questioning venireman Colby, the record shows that on several
subsequent occasions during voir dire he did participate in
questioning. On each of those occasions the judge asked
"In so stating, we do not mean to suggest that respondent "waived" his
Witherspoon claim under Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72 (1977), by
failing to contemporaneously object. There is no doubt that in spite of
respondent's failure to object, the Florida courts reached the merits of his
Witherspoon claim. See Witt v. State, 342 So. 2d 497 (Fla.), cert. denied,
434 U. S.935 (1977). Under circumstances where the state courts do not
rely on independent state grounds for disposing of a claim and instead

reach the merits of a federal question, the federal question is properly
before us. See Ulster County Court v. Allen, 442 U. S.140, 154 (1979).
Nevertheless, counsel's failure to speak in a situation later claimed to be so
rife with ambiguity as to constitute constitutional error is a circumstance
we feel justified in considering when assessing respondent's claims. We
note that since Witt was decided by the Florida Supreme Court that court
has enforced a contemporaneous-objection rule when dealing with Witherspoon challenges. See Brown v. State, 381 So. 2d 690, 693-694 (1980).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

questions entirely consistent with the Adams standard."
There is no reason to believe, as respondent seems to suggest, that the judge's understanding of the standard changed
between the time of the questioning of Colby and the questioning of the later veniremen.
Respondent's second contention is that the colloquy between the prosecutor and Colby is simply too ambiguous to
support the trial court's decision to excuse her. Respondent
claims that the ambiguity he sees is due to the prosecutor's
use of the word "interfere" in his questioning of Colby;
merely because juror Colby affirmed that her views would
" See, e. g., the questioning of Ms. Kazmierczak:
"THE COURT: Wait a minute, ma'am. I haven't made up my mind yet.
Just have a seat. Let me ask you these things. Do you have any prefixed
ideas about this case at all?
"(A]: Not at all.
"THE COURT: Will you follow the law that I give you?
"[A]: I could do that.
"THE COURT: What I am concerned about is that you indicated that you
have a state of mind that might make you be unable to follow the law of this
State.
"[A]: I could not bring back a death penalty.
"THE COURT: Step down." Tr. 341.
and the questioning of Mrs. Hill:
"THE COURT: Well, ma'am, what I am concerned about is whether or not
you will render a fair and impartial verdict, whether you have any prefixed
ideas about this case, and whether you will follow the law. That's the
whole shebang right there.
"[A]: I would give a true verdict. I mean, I wouldn't-I can do that.
"THE COURT: Well, from what you are saying, I have some concern.
Will you follow the law in this case?
"[A]: Pardon?
"THE COURT: Will you follow the law in this case?
"[A]: Yes, unless it was that I had to give a death sentence. I couldn't do
that." Id., at 372.
Since it is clear that the trial judge applied a standard in accord with our
decision today, there is no need to address respondent's contention that the
Florida Supreme Court applied the incorrect standard on direct review.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

"interfere" with her sitting does not necessarily indicate
whether she could in any event have applied the law impartially. Respondent agrees that some jurors might interpret
"interfere" to mean "prevent" (the word which is used in the
key passage in our Adams opinion), but claims that other
equally reasonable jurors could understand it to mean "make
difficult," "create emotional turmoil," or "impair, but not
substantially." As a corollary, respondent suggests that
because the posited ambiguity was caused by the question,
rather than the answer, there is no reason to defer to the
trial judge's finding, since a finding based upon Colby's
demeanor would be worthless without a finding that she had
a particular understanding of the question. The Court of
Appeals agreed with respondent that "[t]he word 'interfere'
admits of a great variety of interpretations," and that the
colloquy between the prosecutor and Colby did not indicate
the extent of the "interference." 714 F. 2d, at 1082.
If we were so brash as to undertake a treatise on synonyms
and antonyms, we would agree that the dictionary definitions
of "interfere" are not identical with the dictionary definitions
of "prevent." But that, of course, is not the question. The
fact that a particular verb is used in a key passage of an appellate opinion stating the standard for excusing jurors for
cause does not mean that that word, and no other, must be
used in all the thousands of subsequent proceedings in which
the prosecution challenges jurors for cause. The law is
stated in an opinion such as Adams; but the question in
subsequent cases is whether a trial court finding that the
standard was met is "fairly supported" by the "record . . .
considered as a whole . . . ." The standard in this case
is the easily understood one enunciated in Adams; whether
the juror's views "would prevent or substantially impair the
performance of his duties as a juror in accordance with his
instructions and his oath." 448 U. S., at 45. Relevant voir
dire questions addressed to this issue need not be framed ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

469 U. S.

clusively in the language of the controlling appellate opinion;
the opinion is, after all, an opinion and not an intricate devise
in a will.
As we emphasized in Marshall v. Lonberger, 459 U. S., at
432, the question is not whether a reviewing court might
disagree with the trial court's findings, but whether those
findings are fairly supported by the record. Here we think
there is ample support for the trial court's finding that
Colby's views would have prevented or substantially impaired the performance of her duties as a juror. On four
separate occasions she affirmed that her beliefs would interfere with her sitting as a juror. One common meaning of
"interfere" is to "create an obstacle." Respondent argues
that in Colby's case, the obstacle was not insurmountable;
but the trial court found to the contrary. As we stated in
Marshall v. Lonberger, supra, at 434:
"As was aptly stated by the New York Court of
Appeals, although in a case of rather different substantive nature: 'Face to face with living witnesses the
original trier of the facts holds a position of advantage
from which appellate judges are excluded. In doubtful
cases the exercise of his power of observation often
proves the most accurate method of ascertaining the
truth. . . . How can we say the judge is wrong? We
never saw the witnesses ....
To the sophistication and
sagacity of the trial judge the law confides the duty of
appraisal.' Boyd v. Boyd, 252 N. Y. 422, 429, 169 N. E.
632, 634."
Thus, whatever ambiguity respondent may find in this
record, we think that the trial court, aided as it undoubtedly
was by its assessment of Colby's demeanor, was entitled to
resolve it in favor of the State. We note in addition that
respondent's counsel chose not to question Colby himself, or
to object to the trial court's excusing her for cause. This

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

Opinion of the Court

questioning might have resolved any perceived ambiguities
in the questions; its absence is all the more conspicuous
because counsel did object to the trial court's excusing other
veniremen later on during the voir dire. Indeed, from what
appears on the record it seems that at the time Colby was
excused no one in the courtroom questioned the fact that her
beliefs prevented her from sitting. The reasons for this,
although not crystal clear from the printed record, may well
have been readily apparent to those viewing Colby as she
answered the questions.
Respondent's attempt to separate the answers from the
questions misses the mark; the trial court, hopefully imbued
with a fair amount of common sense as well as an understanding of the applicable law, views the questioning as a whole.
It is free to interrupt questioning to clarify any particular
statement. There is nothing in this record which indicates
that anybody had trouble understanding the meaning of the
questions and answers with respect to Colby. One of the
purposes of §2254(d) was to prevent precisely this kind
of parsing of trial court transcripts to create problems on
collateral review where none were seen at trial.
The trial court's finding of bias was made under the proper
standard, was subject to §2254(d), and was fairly supported
by the record. Since respondent has not adduced "clear and
convincing evidence that the factual determination by the
State court was erroneous," we reverse the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.13
It is so ordered.
"Respondent seeks affirmance of the judgment of the Court of Appeals
on the alternative ground that the Supreme Court of Florida at the time
of his appeal of his conviction was engaged in soliciting and receiving psychiatric, psychological, and other reports concerning the mental condition
and backgrounds of individuals sentenced to death which had not been
introduced in the trial proceedings. In Fordv. Strickland, 696 F. 2d 804,
811 (CAll), cert. denied, 464 U. S. 865 (1983), a majority of the Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
STEVENS,

JUSTICE STEVENS,

J., concurring in judgment

469 U. S.

concurring in the judgment.

Because the Court's opinion contains so much discussion
that is unnecessary to the resolution of this case, I am unable
to join it.' Much of that discussion is inconsistent with the
standard announced in Adams v. Texas, 448 U. S. 38 (1980),
which the entire Court continues to endorse today.2 The
majority, however, does identify the facts that are critical to
a proper disposition of this case.2
Appeals accepted the Supreme Court of Florida's determination that it did
not in fact make use of the material in question in its review of capital
cases. We see no reason to disturb this essentially factual determination
by the Court of Appeals.
1
do agree with the Court's observation that dictum is not binding in
future cases. See ante, at 422.
The Court, ante, at 423, expressly endorses the following statement in
the Adams opinion:
"As an initial matter, it is clear beyond a peradventure that Witherspoon
is not a ground for challenging any prospective juror. It is rather a limitation on the State's power to exclude: if prospective jurors are barred from
jury service because of their views about capital punishment on 'any
broader basis' than inability to follow the law or abide by their oaths, the
death sentence cannot be carried out." 448 U. S., at 47-48.
JUSTICE BRENNAN, in his dissent today, also endorses that standard.
See
post, at 450 (BRENNAN, J., joined by MARSHALL, J., dissenting).
"'Defense counsel did not object or attempt rehabilitation."
Ante,
at 416.
"In this regard it is noteworthy that in this case the court was given no
reason to think that elaboration was necessary; defense counsel did not see
fit to object to juror Colby's recusal, or to attempt rehabilitation." Ante,
at 430-431.
"Nevertheless, counsel's failure to speak in a situation later claimed to be
so rife with ambiguity as to constitute constitutional error is a circumstance we feel justified in considering when assessing respondent's claims.
We note that since Witt was decided by the Florida Supreme Court that
court has enforced a contemporaneous-objection rule when dealing with
Witherspoon [v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 510 (1968),] challenges. See Brown v.
State, 381 So. 2d 690, 693-694 (Fla. 1980)." Ante, at 431, n. 11.
"We note in addition that respondent's counsel chose not to question
Colby himself, or to object to the trial court's excusing her for cause. This

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

STEVENS,

J., concurring in judgment

Defense counsel did not object to the exclusion of venireman Colby and made no attempt, either by cross-examination
or in colloquy with the court, to demonstrate that she could
properly serve as a juror, or that defendant wanted her to
serve. The entire examination of Colby, who was the first
prospective juror to be specifically questioned about her
views on the death penalty, consists of the few lines quoted
by the Court. Ante, at 415-416. The contrast between
defense counsel's silence when Colby was excused, and his
reaction to the prosecutor's motion to excuse venireman
Kazmierczak is illuminating.
After answering several questions of the prosecutor, juror
Kazmierczak stated: "I don't think [my views on the death
penalty] would interfere with the guilt or innocence of the
person, but the decision of what guilt and what the outcome
would be for his destiny, I could not go along with the death
penalty." Tr. 273. When the prosecutor later moved to
excuse her for cause, defense counsel objected, further questioning ensued, and when the trial court expressed concern
"that you have a state of mind that might make you unable to
follow the law of this State," Kazmierczak unequivocally
responded: "I could not bring back a death penalty." Id.,
at 341. The record thus demonstrates that defense counsel
wanted Kazmierczak to serve as a juror, but that she was
properly excused.
Defense counsel's objection to the excusing of Kazmierczak, notwithstanding her stronger testimony indicating
bias, lends credence to the hypothesis that competent trial
counsel could well have made a deliberate decision not to
object to the exclusion of Colby because he did not want her
questioning might have resolved any perceived ambiguities in the questions; its absence is all the more conspicuous because counsel did object to
the trial court's excusing other veniremen later on during the voir dire."
Ante, at 434-435.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
STEVENS,

J., concurring in judgment

469 U. S.

to serve as a juror. Given the gruesome facts of this case,
see ante, at 414, and Colby's somewhat timorous responses,
it is entirely possible that her appearance and demeanor
persuaded trial counsel that he would prefer a more vigorous
or less reluctant juror.5 In view of that possibility, I am
unable to conclude that the State's failure to make the kind of

record required by Adams v. Texas constitutes an error so
fundamental that it infects the validity of the death sentence
in this case.6
Accordingly, I concur in the Court's judgment.'
4

As I have previously suggested, the absence of an objection at trial
sheds important light on the significance of an alleged constitutional error
even when it does not create an absolute procedural bar to review. Engle
v. Isaac, 456 U. S.107, 136, n. 1 (1982) (STEVENS, J., concurring in part
and dissenting in part) ("The failure to object generally indicates that defense counsel felt that the trial error was not critical to his client's case;
presumably, therefore, the error did not render the trial fundamentally
unfair"); Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72, 96 (1977) (STEVENS J.,
concurring) ("The record persuades me that competent trial counsel
could well have made a deliberate decision not to object to the admission
of the respondent's in-custody statement").
I Earlier in the voir dire, Colby had been repeatedly admonished to
speak louder, Tr. 237-238, and her demeanor in answering several of the
prosecutor's questions may have indicated to counsel that it would be inconvenient for her to serve on the jury: "Well, it will cause me to lose my
work. This is all .... I have made plans-of course, this is a [holiday] as
far as the post office is concerned-so I was off today." Id., at 238. She
added that she could make arrangements to serve on the jury, "if I have
to." Id., at 239.
'See Rose v. Lundy, 455 U. S. 509, 544-545 (1982) (STEVENS, J.,
dissenting).
II should note that the defense counsel also did not object to the exclusion of either venireman Gehm or Miller. When Gehm was asked whether
he could keep an open mind as to whether to vote for the death penalty or
life, he responded: "No, I could not." Tr. 296. The most relevant portion
of Miller's examination reads as follows:
"[Q]: And you wouldn't be able to follow the law as instructed by the
Court?
"[A]: When it comes down to a death penalty, I wouldn't.
"[Q]: You could not do it. Okay. Regardless of the law?
"[A]: No, sir." Id., at 356.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412
JUSTICE

BRENNAN,

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

with whom

JUSTICE

MARSHALL

joins, dissenting.
Adhering to my view that the death penalty is in all circumstances cruel and unusual punishment prohibited by the
Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments, Gregg v. Georgia, 428
U. S. 153, 227 (1976), I would affirm the judgment of the
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit to the extent it
vacates respondent Johnny Paul Witt's sentence of death.
Even if I thought otherwise, however, I would vote to affirm
the decision below in this case. If the presently prevailing
view of the Constitution is to permit the State to exact the
awesome punishment of taking a life, then basic justice demands that juries with the power to decide whether a capital
defendant lives or dies not be poisoned against the defendant.
The Sixth Amendment jury guarantee "reflect[s] a profound judgment about the way in which law should be enforced and justice administered.... Providing an accused
with the right to be tried by a jury of his peers [gives] him
an inestimable safeguard against the corrupt or overzealous
prosecutor and against the compliant, biased, or eccentric
judge." Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 155-156
(1968).
In Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 510, 521
(1968), the Court recognized that the voir dire practice of
"death qualification"- the exclusion for cause, in capital
cases, of jurors opposed to capital punishment-can dangerously erode this "inestimable safeguard" by creating unrepresentative juries "uncommonly willing to condemn a man to
die." See also Adams v. Texas, 448 U. S. 38, 44-45, 48-50
(1980). To protect against this risk, Witherspoon and its
progeny have required the State to make an exceptionally
strong showing that a prospective juror's views about the
death penalty will result in actual bias toward the defendant
before permitting exclusion of the juror for cause.
The Court of Appeals below correctly applied the stringent
Witherspoon standards to the voir dire colloquy between the
prosecutor and prospective juror Colby. Reversing this
decision, the Court today abandons Witherspoon's strict

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

limits on death-qualification and holds instead that deathqualification exclusions be evaluated under the same standards as exclusions for any other cause.' Championing the
right of the State to a jury purged of all possibility of partiality toward a capital defendant, the Court today has shown
itself willing to ignore what the Court in Witherspoon and its
progeny thought crucial: the inevitable result of the quest for
such purity in the jury room in a capital case is not a neutral
jury drawn from a fair cross section of the community but a
jury biased against the defendant, at least with respect to
penalty,I and a jury from which an identifiable segment of the
community has been excluded. Until today it had been constitutionally impermissible for the State to require a defendant to place his life in the hands of such a jury; our fundamental notions of criminal justice were thought to demand
that the State, not the defendant, bear the risk of a less than
wholly neutral jury when perfect neutrality cannot, as in this
situation it most assuredly cannot,3 be achieved. Today the
State's right to ensure exclusion of any juror who might fail
' The Court has depicted the lurid details of respondent Witt's crime with
the careful skill of a pointillist. Had the Court been equally diligent in
rendering the holding below, it might not have neglected to mention that,
as in every case of a violation of Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 510
(1968), only the defendant's death sentence and not his conviction was
vacated. However heinous Witt's crime, the majority's vivid portrait of
its gruesome details has no bearing on the issue before us. It is not for
this Court to decide whether Witt deserves to die. That decision must
first be made by a jury of his peers, so long as the jury is impartial and
drawn from a fair cross section of the community in conformity with the
requirements of the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments.
2
Witherspoon held that a sentence of death imposed by such a jury violated the Sixth Amendment, but, because the evidence was fragmentary at
that time, declined to hold that an underlying conviction by such a jury was
also unconstitutionally infirm because the jury would be conviction-prone.
Id., at 517-518. See n. 11, infra.
'See Gross, Determining the Neutrality of Death-Qualified Juries, 8
Law and Human Behavior 7, 26-28 (1984).

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT

412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

to vote the death penalty when the State's capital punishment scheme permits such a verdict vanquishes the defendant's right to a jury that assuredly will not impose the death
penalty when that penalty would be inappropriate.
I
A
Because the Court is not forthright about the extent to
which today's decision departs from Witherspoon and its
progeny, and because the Court does not even acknowledge
the constitutional rights Witherspoon is meant to protect,
a detailed exposition of Witherspoon v. Illinois is in order.
In the typical case not involving the possibility of a death
penalty, the State is given significant leeway to exclude for
cause those jurors who indicate that various circumstances
might affect their impartiality.' Broad exclusion is generally
permitted even though some such jurors, if pressed further
on voir dire, might be discovered to possess the ability to lay
aside their prejudices and judge impartially. Although, as
we held in Witherspoon, exclusion on "any broader basis"
than a juror's unambiguously expressed inability to follow
instructions and abide by an oath serves no legitimate state
interest, 391 U. S., at 522, n. 21, such broader exclusion is
typically permitted for the sake of convenience because it
disserves no interest of the defendant.
The Court's crucial perception in Witherspoon was that
such broad exclusion of prospective jurors on the basis of the
possible effect of their views about capital punishment infringes the rights of a capital defendant in a way that broad
exclusion for indicia of other kinds of bias does not. No
systemic skew in the nature of jury composition results from
exclusion of individuals for random idiosyncratic traits likely
'See generally 2 W. Lafave & J. Israel, Criminal Procedure § 21.3
(1984).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

to lead to bias. Exclusion of those opposed to capital punishment, by contrast, keeps an identifiable class of people off the
jury in capital cases and is likely systemically to bias juries.
Such juries are more likely to be hanging juries, tribunals
more disposed in any given case to impose a sentence of
death. Id., at 523. These juries will be unlikely to represent a fair cross section of the community, and their verdicts
will thus be unlikely to reflect fairly the community's judgment whether a particular defendant has been shown beyond
a reasonable doubt to be guilty and deserving of death. For
a community in which a significant segment opposes capital
punishment, "proof beyond a reasonable doubt" in a capital case might be a stricter threshold than "proof beyond a
reasonable doubt" in a noncapital case. A jury unlikely to
reflect such community views is not a jury that comports
with the Sixth Amendment. Adams v. Texas, supra, at 50.
See Witherspoon, 391 U. S., at 519-520. Cf. Peters v. Kiff,
407 U. S. 493, 503-504 (1972) (opinion of MARSHALL, J.) ("It
is not necessary to conclude that the excluded group will consistently vote as a class in order to conclude . . . that its
exclusion deprives the jury of a perspective on human events
that may have unsuspected importance"); Ballard v. United
States, 329 U. S. 187, 193-194 (1946) (discussing "subtle
interplay of influence one on the other" among jurors of
varying perspectives).
This perception did not, however, lead us to ban all inquiry
into a prospective juror's views about capital punishment.
We also acknowledged, as the Court today correctly points
out, that the State's legitimate interest in an impartial
jury encompasses the right to exclude jurors whose views
about capital punishment would so distort their judgment
that they could not follow the law. Witherspoon accommodated both the defendant's constitutionally protected rights
and the State's legitimate interests by permitting the State
to exclude jurors whose views about capital punishment would

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

prevent them from being impartial but requiring strict standards of proof for exclusion. In particular, Witherspoon precluded any speculative presumption that a juror opposed to
capital punishment would for that reason lack the ability to
be impartial in a particular case; "[a] man who opposes the
death penalty, no less than one who favors it, can make the
discretionary judgment entrusted to him by the State and
can thus obey the oath he takes as a juror." Witherspoon,
supra, at 519. Accord, Maxwell v. Bishop, 398 U. S. 262,
265 (1970); Boulden v. Holman, 394 U. S. 478, 483-484
(1969).
Beyond prohibiting any presumption of bias,
Witherspoon imposed, as the Court today recognizes, an "extremely high burden of proof" of actual bias. Ante, at 421.
The State may exclude only those jurors who make it "unambiguous" or "unmistakably clear," Witherspoon, supra, at
515-516, n. 9, 522, n. 21, that their views about capital
punishment would prevent or substantially impair them from
following the law. 5
Three important consequences flow from Witherspoon's
stringent standard for exclusion. First, it permits exclusion
only of jurors whose views would prevent or substantially
impair them from following instructions or abiding by an
oath, and not those whose views would simply make these
tasks more psychologically or emotionally difficult, nor those
whose views would in good faith color their judgment of what
a "reasonable doubt" is in a capital case. Adams v. Texas,
448 U. S., at 48-51. Second, it precludes exclusion of jurors
I In Witherspoon the Court defined the excludable class as those whose
views would "prevent" impartiality. 391 U. S., at 522, n. 21. Adams v.
Texas, 448 U. S. 38 (1980), defined the excludable class as those whose
views would prevent or substantially impair impartiality. Id., at 45.
This variation is not significant; the primary focus of the Witherspoon inquiry, as Adams made clear, remains on whether the prospective juror can
follow instructions and abide by an oath. Adams, supra, at 45, 49-50.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

whose voir dire responses to death-qualification inquiries
are ambiguous or vacillating. Witherspoon, supra, at 515516, n. 9, 522, n. 21. Third, it precludes exclusion of jurors
who do not know at voir dire whether their views about the
death penalty will prevent them abiding by their oaths at
trial. Adams, supra, at 50. See generally Schnapper, Taking Witherspoon Seriously: The Search for Death-Qualified
Jurors, 62 Texas L. Rev. 977, 981-993 (1984).
These restrictions not only trace narrowly the compass of
permissible exclusion but also allocate to the State the cost of
unavoidable uncertainty with respect to whether a prospective juror with scruples about capital punishment should be
excluded. They do so in much the same way, and for much
the same reason, that the "proof beyond a reasonable doubt"
standard of guilt allocates to the State the cost of uncertainty
with respect to whether a particular defendant committed a
crime. See In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358, 370-373 (1970)
(Harlan, J. concurring). At voir dire some prospective
jurors may make clear that their opposition to capital punishment will color their judgment but may not make clear
whether the effect will rise to the level of "conscious distortion or bias." Adams v. Texas, supra, at 46. Many others
will not bring to the voir dire a considered position about
capital punishment and thus may respond with uncertainty,
ambiguity, evasion, or even self-contradiction during the
death-qualification process. When the time for decision
arrives such jurors might or might not turn out to be so
affected by the prospect of a death sentence in the case
before them that they render a biased judgment; typically
neither eventuality can be divined at the voir dire stage.
If under our Constitution we viewed the disadvantage to
the defendant from exclusion of unbiased prospective jurors
opposed to the death penalty as equivalent to the disadvantage to the prosecution from inclusion of a biased prospective juror, then the law would impose no particular burden
favoring or disfavoring exclusion. Because-at least until

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN, J., dissenting

today-we viewed the risks to a defendant's Sixth Amendment rights from a jury from which those who oppose capital
punishment have been excluded as far more serious than the
risk to the State from inclusion of particular jurors whose
views about the death penalty might turn out to predispose
them toward the defendant, we placed on the State an extremely high burden to justify exclusion. Cf. In re Winship,
supra, at 370-373 (Harlan, J., concurring); Speiser v.
Randall, 357 U. S. 513, 525-526 (1958) ("There is always in
litigation a margin of error ....

Where one party has at

stake an interest of transcending value-as a criminal defendant his liberty-this margin of error is reduced as to him by
the process of placing on the other party the burden ... ").

To protect the rights of the capital defendant Witherspoon
prohibits exclusion of the ambiguous, evasive, or uncertain
juror.
Later cases came to see the essence of Witherspoon as
being embedded in the language of footnote 21 of that case.
See Adams v. Texas, supra; Boulden v. Holman, supra;
Maxwell v. Bishop, supra. The crucial portion of the footnote reads:
"[N]othing we say today bears upon the power of a
State to execute a defendant sentenced to death by a
jury from which the only veniremen who were in fact
excluded for cause were those who made unmistakably
clear (1) that they would automaticallyvote against the
imposition of capital punishment without regard to any
evidence that might be developed at the trial of the case
before them, or (2) that their attitude toward the death
penalty would prevent them from making an impartial
decision as to the defendant's guilt." Witherspoon, 391
U. S., at 522-523, n. 21 (emphasis in original).
This particular two-part inquiry, as the Court today correctly
notes, ante, at 419, carries no talismanic significance. Its
purpose is to expose the ability vel non of a juror to follow

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

instructions and abide by an oath with respect to both sentencing (the first prong) and determining guilt or innocence
(the second prong).6 We have held that different forms of
inquiry passed muster under Witherspoon so long as they
were similarly directed at ascertaining whether a juror could
follow instructions and abide by an oath. E. g., Adams v.
Texas, 448 U. S., at 44-45; Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586,
595-596 (1978).
That permissible Witherspoon inquiries may depart from
the language of footnote 21 does not mean, however, that the
State may ignore Witherspoon's strict standards of proof for
exclusion when a different form of inquiry is put to the
prospective juror. We have repeatedly stressed that the
essence of Witherspoon is its requirement that only jurors
who make it unmistakably clear that their views about capital
punishment would prevent or substantially impair them from
following the law may be excluded. Maxwell v. Bishop, 398
U. S. 262 (1970); Boulden v. Holman, 394 U. S. 478 (1969).
Thus in summarily reversing several state-court decisions,
this Court invalidated death sentences imposed by juries
from which jurors had been excluded because their voir dire
responses indicated ambiguity or uncertainty as to whether
their views about capital punishment would affect their ability to be impartial. Pruett v. Ohio, 403 U. S. 946 (1971),
rev'g 18 Ohio St. 2d 167, 248 N. E. 2d 605 (1969); Adams v.
Washington, 403 U. S. 947 (1971), rev'g 76 Wash. 2d 650, 458
P. 2d 558 (1969); Mathis v. New Jersey, 403 U. S. 946 (1971),
rev'g 52 N. J. 238, 245 A. 2d 20 (1968). And in Lockett v.
Ohio, supra, we approved exclusions because the excused
prospective jurors had made it "'unmistakably clear"' that
'At the time of Witherspoon Illinois left to the complete discretion of
the jury the choice whether a convicted capital defendant lived or died.
Thus any juror who would consider the death penalty under some circumstances-who, in other words, would not automatically vote against
it---could abide by the instructions and oath in Illinois at the time.
Witherspoon, 391 U. S., at 519-520.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

they could not take an oath to be impartial. 438 U. S., at
596 (quoting Witherspoon, supra, at 522-523, n. 21). Most
recently, in Adams v. Texas, this Court reaffirmed that
exclusion absent a juror's unambiguously stated inability
to follow the law and abide by an oath was constitutionally
impermissible. 448 U. S., at 50.
B
A comprehensive understanding of the principles of
Witherspoon makes clear that the decision of the Court of
Appeals below was correct. The court below faithfully
sought to implement Witherspoon's accommodation of the
interests of the defendant in avoiding a jury "'uncommonly
willing to condemn a man to die,"' 714 F. 2d 1069, 1076-1080
(1984) (quoting Witherspoon, supra, at 521), and of the State
in "the necessity of excusing for cause those prospective
jurors who, because of their lack of impartiality from holding
unusually strong views against the death penalty, would frustrate a state's legitimate effort to administer an otherwise
constitutionally valid death penalty scheme." 714 F. 2d, at
1076-1080. Following Adams v. Texas, supra, the court
below articulated an accurate understanding of the stringent
burdens of proof Witherspoon places on the State:
"[A] prospective juror must be permitted great leeway
in expressing opposition to the death penalty before he
or she qualifies for dismissal for cause. A prospective
juror may even concede that his or her feelings about the
death penalty would possibly color an objective determination of the facts of a case without admitting of
the necessary partiality to justify excusal." 714 F. 2d,
at 1076-1080.
See Adams v. Texas, supra, at 49-50.
Applying this correct understanding of the law to the colloquy between the prosecutor and prospective juror Colby, the
court held that Colby's "statements fall far short of the cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

tainty required by Witherspoon to justify for cause excusal."
714 F. 2d, at 1082. The court traced this lack of certainty
in part to "the State's failure to frame its questions in an
appropriately unambiguous manner," given the standard of
proof the State had to meet to justify exclusion. Ibid. Specifically, the court criticized the State's use of the word
"interfere" in its examination:
"The word 'interfere' admits of a great variety of interpretations, and we would find it quite unnatural for a
person, who has already expressed her concern about
the death penalty, to respond otherwise than that her
feelings would 'interfere' with, 'color,' or 'affect' her
determinations. Such a response does not indicate an
inability, in all cases, to apply the death sentence or to
find the defendant guilty where such a finding could lead
to capital punishment because it fails to reflect the
profundity of any such 'interference."' Ibid.
Though critical of the prosecutor's decision to fashion his
questioning around the word "interfere," the court below did
not base its decision on this divergence from the precise
inquiry of Witherspoon's footnote 21. 714 F. 2d, at 1083.1
Rather, the court relied on Witherspoon's stringent standards of proof in deciding that the exclusion of Colby was
improper. Colby's statement that she thought her personal
views about capital punishment might interfere with "judg7

The opinion of this Court suggests that the court below, slavishly
devoted to the precise wording of Witherspoon's footnote 21, invalidated
the exclusion because the prosecutor used the word "interfere" instead of
footnote 21's language. Ante, at 432-434. The most cursory reading of
the court's opinion belies this representation of the decision as turning on
a semantic quibble about "synonyms and antonyms." Ante, at 433. In
rejecting precisely this argument below, the Court of Appeals explicitly
stated that it based its decision on an evaluation of the "totality of the
circumstances." 714 F. 2d, at 1083. Its evaluation involved far more
than the form of the question, and the opinion criticized the form of the
question only insofar as it failed to elicit a degree of certainty sufficient to
permit exclusion under Witherspoon.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

ing [the] guilt or innocence [of the defendant]," 714 F. 2d,
at 1083, was, the court held, not a sufficiently unambiguous
statement of inability to follow instructions or abide by an
oath to justify exclusion under applicable principles. This
decision is perfectly congruent with our recent holding in
Adams. 448 U. S., at 49-50. The court therefore ordered
resentencing-not retrial-for Witt in accord with Sixth and
Fourteenth Amendment requirements.8
I Reversing the Court of Appeals below, this Court places some weight
on, and JUSTICE STEVENS concurring in the judgment gives determinative
weight to, the fact that Witt's counsel did not object to the exclusion of
prospective juror Colby. See ante, at 430-431, and n. 11, 434-435; ante, at
437-438 (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment). Because the state courts
did not enforce a contemporaneous-objection bar and thus ruled on Witt's
claimed Witherspoon violation, the federal courts were of course free to
consider the claim on a petition for habeas corpus. Ulster County Court v.
Allen, 442 U. S. 140, 154 (1979). Nonetheless the Court relies on the
failure to object either as evidence that Colby was not ambiguous in
expressing her views, ante at 431, n. 11, or to suggest that defense counsel
had some duty to attempt rehabilitation in order to resolve any ambiguities
in Colby's testimony, ante, at 434-435. JUSTICE STEVENS relies on the
failure to object as proof sufficient to rebut the argument that "the State's
failure to make the kind of record required by Adams v. Texas constitutes
an error so fundamental that it infects the validity of the death sentence in
this case." Ante, at 438 (concurring in judgment).
With respect to the Court's reliance on the failure to object, counsel's
failure could be evidence of no more than a lack of competence or attentiveness. And I fail to see how any demeanor evidence, the existence of which
the Court infers from counsel's silence, could turn Colby's statement that
she thought her views about capital punishment might interfere with her
ability to judge guilt or innocence into an unmistakably clear declaration
that she would be unable to follow instructions and abide by an oath. In
any event, Witherspoon placed on defense counsel no burden to rehabilitate an ambiguous venireperson. As the Court of Appeals correctly held
below, unless the prosecution resolves ambiguity to the extent of showing
an unmistakably clear inability to follow the law, the juror may not be
excluded.
With respect to the form of "harmless error" analysis in JUSTICE
STEVENS' separate opinion, this Court has held on direct review that the
improper exclusion of one prospective juror under Witherspoon precludes
imposition of the death penalty irrespective of who replaces that prospec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

II
A
Adams v. Texas, supra, is, ironically, precisely the authority the Court today invokes to reverse the Court of Appeals
below. In what must under the circumstances be taken as a
tacit admission that application of Witherspoon's stringent
standards of proof would validate the decision of the Court of
Appeals, the Court casts Adams as a substantial retrenchment; "the standard applied in Adams," claims the Court,
"differs markedly from the language of footnote 21 [of
Witherspoon]." Ante, at 421. To the extent the Court
reads Adams as eschewing unthinking adherence to the particular two-part inquiry propounded in footnote 21, I have
no quarrel. See supra, at 445-446. The Court, however,
purports to find in Adams a renunciation of Witherspoon's
stringent standards of proof. Ante, at 421 ("[G]one too is
the extremely high burden of proof"). In essence the Court
reads Adams as saying that there is no constitutional distinction between exclusion for death penalty bias and exclusion
for other types of bias. See Pattonv. Yount, 467 U. S. 1025
(1984). Had the Court of Appeals understood that this more
lenient exclusion standard governed, today's opinion asserts,
it would have realized that the state trial court's voir dire
excusal of Colby should not be disturbed.
Adams did not, however, desert the principles of Witherspoon. It is the Court's brazenly revisionist reading of
Adams today that leaves Witherspoon behind. JUSTICE
REHNQUIST, dissenting from Adams, thought the opinion of
the Court "expand[ed]" the scope of Witherspoon's restrictions. 448 U. S., at 52. Virtually all federal and state
tive juror. Davis v. Georgia, 429 U. S. 122, 123 (1976). Particularly
when a defendant's right to continue living is at issue, I fail to understand
how an error held to be so fundamental as to preclude any harmless-error
analysis on direct review should be treated as any less fundamental on
habeas corpus review.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

appellate courts considering Witherspoon claims in light of
Adams have read the case as a clear endorsement of the
Witherspoon approach encapsulated in footnote 21. See,
e. g., Darden v. Wainwright, 725 F. 2d 1526, 1528-1529
(CAll 1984) (en banc); Davis v. Zant, 721 F. 2d 1478, 1486
(CAll 1983); Spencer v. Zant, 715 F. 2d 1562, 1576 (CAll
1983); Hance v. Zant, 696 F. 2d 940, 954 (CAll 1983);
O'Bryan v. Estelle, 691 F. 2d 706, 709 (CA5 1982); Burns v.
Estelle, 626 F. 2d 396, 397-398 (CA5 1980); Herring v. State,
446 So. 2d 1049, 1055 (Fla. 1984); People v. Velasquez, 28
Cal. 3d 461, 622 P. 2d 952 (1980); People v. Gaines, 88 Ill. 2d
342, 351-352, 430 N. E. 2d 1046, 1051 (1981); State v. Mercer,
618 S. W. 2d 1, 6 (Mo. 1981) (en banc).
One need look no further than the text of Adams to understand why it has been perceived until today as consistent
with Witherspoon. Adams quoted Witherspoon's footnote
21 with approval and stated that the test in that footnote was
"clearly designed" to accommodate both the State's interest
and the defendant's interest. Adams, supra, at 44. Reaffirming that Witherspoon must be seen as "a limitation on
the State's power to exclude," Adams held that "if prospective jurors are barred from jury service because of their
views about capital punishment on 'any broader basis' than
inability to follow the law or abide by their oaths, the death
sentence cannot be carried out. Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391
U. S., at 522, n. 21." 448 U. S., at 48. In holding that the
State may exclude only those whose views about capital punishment "would prevent or substantially impair" their ability
to follow instructions and abide by an oath, id., at 45, the
Court made clear that the State may exclude only jurors
whose views would lead to "conscious distortion or bias."
Id., at 46 (emphasis added).
Nothing in Adams suggests that the Court intended to
abandon Witherspoon's strict standards of proof. The
Court's intent to reaffirm these standards is evident in its
approving quotation of the "unmistakably clear" language of

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

footnote 21, Adams, supra, at 44, and, more importantly,
in its delineation of the circumstances in which exclusion is
impermissible.
Adams explicitly prohibited exclusion of
jurors whose views about capital punishment might invest
their deliberations with greater seriousness, 448 U. S., at
49-50, those whose views would make it emotionally more
difficult for them to follow their oaths, ibid., and those who
cannot affirmatively say whether or not their views would
distort their determinations, id., at 50. Even those "who
frankly concede that the prospects of the death penalty may
affect what their honest judgment of the facts will be or what
they may deem to be a reasonable doubt" may not be excluded if "they aver that they will honestly find the facts...
if they are convinced beyond [a] reasonable doubt." Ibid.
Adams was true to Witherspoon's recognition that the
Constitution prohibits imposition of a death sentence by a
jury from which a juror was excluded on any broader basis
than an unambiguous affirmatively stated inability to follow
instructions and abide by an oath. The Court today establishes an entirely new standard significantly more lenient
than that of Witherspoon. The difference does not lie in the
freedom of the State to depart from the precise inquiry of
Witherspoon's footnote 21; that freedom, as I have made
clear, has long been established. See supra, at 445-446;
Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U. S., at 595-596. The crucial departure is the decision to discard Witherspoon's stringent
standards of proof. The Court no longer prohibits exclusion
of uncertain, vacillating, or ambiguous prospective jurors.
It no longer requires an unmistakably clear showing that a
prospective juror will be prevented or substantially impaired
from following instructions and abiding by an oath. Instead
the trial judge at voir dire is instructed to evaluate juror
uncertainty, ambiguity, or vacillation to decide whether the
juror's views about capital punishment "might frustrate
administration of a State's death penalty scheme." Ante,

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

at 416 (emphasis added).' If so, that juror may be excluded.
In essence, the Court has shifted to the capital defendant
the risk of a biased and unrepresentative jury. This result
debases the Sixth Amendment's jury guarantees.
B
Rewriting Adams to suit present purposes, the Court has
of course relieved itself of much of its burden of justification;
invoking precedent, the Court dodges the obligation to provide support for its decision to deprive the capital defendant
of protections long recognized as fundamental. Nonetheless, perhaps in tacit recognition that today's departure calls
for an explanation, the Court has offered three reasons for
preferring what it misleadingly calls the "Adams test."
Ante, at 421. Stripped of their false lustre of precedential
force, these justifications neither jointly nor severally support the Court's abandonment of Witherspoon.
The Court's first justification is linked to changes in the
role of juries in capital cases. Because jurors no longer have
the unfettered discretion to impose or withhold capital punishment that they had in Illinois and other States at the time
of Witherspoon, the Court asserts, there is no longer any reason to require empaneling of jurors who will merely consider
a sentence of death under some circumstances. The State
I The Court recognizes that most juror responses to death-qualifications
will be ambiguous, in large part because "veniremen may not know how
they will react when faced with imposing the death sentence . . . ." Ante,
at 425. Nevertheless, the Court goes on to ascribe to the trial judge the
power to divine through demeanor alone which of such jurors "would be
unable to faithfully and impartially apply the law," ante, at 426, and
requires deference to the trial-court decisions to exclude for this reason.
Not surprisingly, the Court provides no support for the rather remarkable
assertion that a judge will, despite ambiguity in a juror's response, be
able to perceive a juror's inability to follow the law and abide by an oath
when the juror himself or herself does not yet know how he or she will
react to the case at hand.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

should be permitted to exclude all jurors unable to follow the
guided discretion procedures that, as a result of the Court's
Eighth Amendment decisions, now govern capital sentencing. Ante, at 422. In the interest of candor, the Court
might have mentioned that precisely this analysis prompted
JUSTICE REHNQUIST's dissent in Adams. 448 U. S., at 52
("[Alt a time when this Court should be re-examining the
doctrinal underpinnings of Witherspoon in light of our
intervening decisions in capital cases, it instead expands that
precedent as if those underpinnings had remained wholly
static"). It is most curious that the identical reasoning is
now marshaled to justify a "test" purportedly derived from
the Court's holding in that case.
More to the point, this reasoning does not in any way justify abandonment of the restrictions Witherspoon has placed
on the exclusion of prospective jurors. Without a doubt, a
State may inquire whether a particular juror will be able to
follow his or her oath to abide by the particulars of a guided
discretion sentencing approach, and upon receiving an unmistakably clear negative response the State may properly move
to exclude that juror. Lockett v. Ohio, supra, at 595-596.
But the existence of a guided discretion scheme in no way
diminishes the defendant's interest in a jury composed of a
fair cross section of the community and a jury not "uncommonly willing to condemn a man to die." Witherspoon v.
Illinois, 391 U. S., at 521. Even under a guided discretion
proceeding a juror must have the opportunity to consider all
available mitigating evidence, Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455
U. S. -104 (1982), and to decide against imposition of the death
sentence in any individual case, Woodson v. North Carolina,
428 U. S. 280 (1976). Under our Constitution, the capital
sentencer must undertake a sensitive "'consideration of the
character and record of the individual offender and the circumstances of the particular offense as a[n] ... indispensable
part of the process of inflicting the penalty of death."' Eddings, supra, at 112 (quoting Woodson, supra, at 304). As

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

Adams recognizes, making such judgments "is not an exact
science, and the jurors . . . unavoidably exercise a range

of judgment and discretion while remaining true to their
instructions and their oaths." 448 U. S., at 46. That is why
the State may not exclude jurors
"who frankly concede that the prospects of the death
penalty may affect what their honest judgment of the
facts will be or what they may deem to be a reasonable
doubt. Such assessments and judgments by jurors are
inherent in the jury system, and to exclude all jurors
who would be in the slightest way affected ...

would be

to deprive the defendant of the impartial jury to which
he or she is entitled under the law." Id., at 50.
The risks that Witherspoon sought to minimize through
defining high standards of proof for exclusions based on
death penalty scruples are, we correctly held in Adams,
equally prevalent in the context of guided discretion sentencing schemes.
As a second justification for the so-called "Adams test" the
Court serves up the claim that Witherspoon's footnote 21
approach was dictum. That footnote 21 might have been
dictum is not, of course, an affirmative reason for adopting
the particular alternative the Court advances today. Were
the claim correct it would merely leave more leeway to
depart from the Witherspoon restrictions. More importantly, the label "dictum" does not begin to convey the status
that the restrictions embodied in footnote 21 have achieved in
this Court and state and federal courts over the last decade
and a half. See supra, at 445, 450-451. From Boulden v.
Holman, 394 U. S. 478 (1969), and Maxwell v. Bishop, 398
U. S. 262 (1970), through Adams, supra, this Court has
applied the strict burdens of proof of Witherspoon's footnote 21 to invalidate sentences imposed by juries from which
scrupled jurors had been too readily excluded. The Court
concedes as much at another point in its opinion when it

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

acknowledges that footnote 21 "se[t] the standard" for subsequent cases. Ante, at 418.
The Court's third proffered justification is that the socalled "Adams standard.., is in accord with the traditional
reasons for excluding jurors and with the circumstances
under which such determinations are made." Ante, at 423.
In essence, the Court argues that the so-called Adams standard should be followed because it excludes jurors for bias on
the same grounds and using the same standards as would be
used for exclusion based on any other type of bias: "exclu[sion
of] jurors because of their opposition to capital punishment
is no different from excluding jurors for innumerable other
reasons which result in bias .

. . ."

Ante, at 429.

This

position is at the core of the Court's holding in this case, but
between this position and the basic principles of Witherspoon
lies an unbridgeable chasm.
The crux of Witherspoon was its recognition of a constitutionally significant distinction between exclusion of jurors
opposed to capital punishment and exclusion of jurors for the
"innumerable other reasons which result in bias." Ante, at
429. The very nature of a Witherspoon challenge illuminates
the difference. In typical cases involving an allegation of
juror bias unrelated to death penalty scruples, the convicted
defendant challenges the inclusion of particular jurors.
E. g., Patton v. Yount, 467 U. S. 1025 (1984); Smith v.
Phillips, 455 U. S. 209 (1982). In a Witherspoon case the
convicted defendant challenges the exclusion of particular
jurors. If, as the Court suggests, the only interest at stake
in a Witherspoon case is the equivalent right of the defendant
and the State to impartial individual jurors, ante, at 423, then
the entire thrust of the Witherspoon inquiry makes no sense.
To be relevant to the right the Court claims is at stake, the
inquiry would have to focus on whether the individual jurors
who replaced the excluded prospective jurors were impartial;
if so, then no harm would result from the exclusion of particular prospective jurors, whatever the reason for the exclusion.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

Witherspoon, of course, focused on the very different sort
of injury that might result from systematic exclusion of those
opposed to capital punishment: the risk of hanging juries, 391
U. S., at 521, n. 20, from which a distinct segment of the
community has been excluded. Id., at 520. Witherspoon's
prohibition against presuming bias and its requirement of
an unmistakably clear showing of actual bias sufficient to
prevent or substantially impair a juror's ability to abide
by an oath are the means by which the risk of constitutional
injury is minimized.
The Court today eliminates both protections. It rejects
the rule that stricter standards govern death-qualification,
and as a justification for doing so indulges precisely the presumption of bias Witherspoon prohibited: "we do not think,
simply because a defendant is being tried for a capital crime,
that he is entitled to a legal presumption or standard that
allows jurors to be seated who quite likely will be biased in
his favor." Ante, at 423 (emphasis added). The trick in the
majority opinion should by now be clear. The Court simply
refuses to recognize the constitutional rights Witherspoon's
stringent standards of proof were designed to safeguard.
The Court limits the Sixth Amendment to the partiality
vel non of individual jurors; "[h]ere, as elsewhere, the
quest is for jurors who will conscientiously apply the law and
find the facts." Ante, at 423 (emphasis added). As today's
opinion would have it, the Sixth Amendment has nothing to
say about the overall compositition of the jury, and in
particular about the capital defendant's right to a jury not
predisposed toward the death sentence and representative of
a fair cross section of the community. A defendant's established right to a jury that reflects the community's judgment
about whether the evidence supporting conviction and execution for a particular crime crosses the "reasonable doubt"
threshold has been made to disappear.
This bit of legerdemain permits the Court to offer an easy
analogy to exclusion for other types of bias and argue that

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

death-qualification should be evaluated under the same
lenient standards. Ante, at 423-424. Because the Court
never acknowledges the constitutional rights Witherspoon
was meant to protect, it need not explain why Witherspoon's
protections are no longer needed. It is bad enough that the
Court is so eager to discard well-established Sixth Amendment rights of a capital defendant for the sake of efficient
capital punishment. But if the Court is to take such a
precipitate step, at the very least it should acknowledge
having done so and explain why these consistently recognized
rights should be recognized no longer.
III
Witherspoon, as the foregoing discussion makes clear, is
best understood in the context of our cases preserving the
integrity of the jury both as an impartial factfinder and
as the voice of the community. As such the protection of
Witherspoon's stringent standards of proof could not be more
important to the capital defendant:
"The guarantees of jury trial in the Federal and State
Constitutions reflect a profound judgment about the way
in which law should be enforced and justice administered. A right to jury trial is granted to criminal
defendants in order to prevent oppression by the Government .... Providing an accused with the right to be
tried by a jury of his peers gave him an inestimable safeguard against the corrupt or overzealous prosecutor and
against the compliant, biased, or eccentric judge. If the
defendant preferred the common-sense judgment of a
jury to the more tutored but perhaps less sympathetic
reaction of the single judge, he was to have it. Beyond
this, the jury trial provisions in the Federal and State
Constitutions reflect a fundamental decision about the
exercise of official power-a reluctance to entrust plenary powers over the life and liberty of the citizen to one

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

judge or to a group of judges. Fear of unchecked power,
so typical of our State and Federal Governments in other
respects, found expression in the criminal law in this
insistence upon community participation in the determination of guilt or innocence." Duncan v. Louisiana,
391 U. S. 145, 155-156 (1968) (footnote omitted).
Crucial to the jury right is the requirement that "the jury
be a body truly representative of the community." Smith v.
Texas, 311 U. S. 128, 130 (1940). As we said in Taylor v.
Louisiana, 419 U. S. 522 (1975), "[t]his prophylactic vehicle
is not provided if the jury pool is made up of only special
segments of the populace or if large, distinctive groups are
excluded from the pool." Id., at 530. The death-qualification
process is fraught with threats to these constitutional
guarantees. o
The risk of the "overzealous prosecutor and ... the compliant, biased, or eccentric judge," Duncan v. Louisiana,
supra, at 156, is particularly acute in the context of a capital
case. Passions, as we all know, can run to the extreme when
the State tries one accused of a barbaric act against society,
or one accused of a crime that-for whatever reasoninflames the community. Pressures on the government to
secure a conviction, to "do something," can overwhelm even
those of good conscience. See Patton v. Yount, 467 U. S.,
at 1053 (STEVENS, J., dissenting). When prosecutors and
judges are elected, or when they harbor political ambitions,
such pressures are particularly dangerous. Cf. Spaziano v.
Florida,468 U. S.447, 467 (1984) (STEVENS, J., concurring
in part and dissenting in part). With such pressures invariably being brought to bear, strict controls on the death-

"Though these cases involve systematic

exclusion from the jury pool and

not from a particular jury, death-qualification is the functional equivalent
of exclusion from the pool. The prosecution has unlimited ability to challenge prospective jurors for cause and uses the challenges to remove all
members of an identifiable segment of the community from the pool.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

qualification process are imperative.
Death-qualification
works to the advantage of only the prosecutor; if not carefully
controlled, it is tool with which the prosecutor can create
a jury perhaps predisposed to convict " and certainly
predisposed to impose the ultimate sanction.
Broad death-qualification threatens the requirement that
juries be drawn from a fair cross section of the community
and thus undermines both the defendant's interest in a representative body and society's interest in full community participation in capital sentencing. "One of the most important
" As noted in n. 2, supra, Witherspoon declined to hold that broad exclusion of those opposed to capital punishment would render juries convictionprone. Since that time numerous studies have all but confirmed that
death-qualified juries are conviction-prone. E. g., Sequin & Horowitz,
The Effects of "Death Qualification" on Juror and Jury Decisioning: An
Analysis from Three Perspectives, 8 L. & Psychology Rev. 49 (1984); Fitzgerald & Ellsworth, Due Process vs. Crime Control: Death Qualification
and Jury Attitudes, 8 Law and Human Behavior 31 (1984); Cowan, Thompson, & Ellsworth, The Effects of Death Qualification on Jurors' Predisposition to Convict and on the Quality of Deliberation, 8 Law and
Human Behavior 53 (1984); Thompson, Cowan, Ellsworth, & Harrington,
Death Penalty Attitudes and Conviction Proneness: The Translation of
Attitudes into Verdicts, 8 Law and Human Behavior 95 (1984). Some
studies have even suggested that the process of death-qualification tends to
bias remaining jurors toward the prosecution. Haney, On the Selection
of Capital Juries: The Biasing Effects of the Death-Qualification Process,
8 Law and Human Behavior 121 (1984).
At least one Federal District Court has held that even juries deathqualified under the strict standards of Witherspoon are constitutionally
infirm because they are, as a matter of empirical fact, more likely to
convict than a jury drawn from a fair cross section of the community.
Grigsby v. Mabry, 569 F. Supp. 1273 (ED Ark. 1983) (appeal en banc pending in Eighth Circuit). One other District Court held to the same effect,
Keeton v. Garrison,578 F. Supp. 1164 (WDNC 1984), but the Fourth Circuit recently reversed this decision. Keeton v. Garrison, 742 F. 2d 129
(1984). Instead of recognizing that the process of death-qualification
creates serious risks, even within the contours of Witherspoon, this Court
abandons any limits on the process and thereby enhances the possibility of
erroneous convictions as well as erroneous sentences.

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

functions any jury can perform in making such a selection [of
life or death] is to maintain a link between contemporary
community values and the penal system-a link without
which the determination of punishment could hardly reflect
'the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of
a maturing society."' Witherspoon, 391 U. S., at 519, n. 15
(quoting Trop v. Dulles, 356 U. S. 86, 101 (1958) (opinion of
WARREN, C. J.)). As JUSTICE STEVENS wrote last Term,
"if the decision that capital punishment is the appropriate
sanction in extreme cases is justified because it expresses the
community's moral sensibility-its demand that a given affront to humanity requires retribution-it follows ... that a
representative cross section of the community must be given
the responsibility for making that decision." Spaziano v.
Florida,supra, at 481 (concurring in part and dissenting in
part).
That the Court would be willing to place the life of this capital defendant, and all others, in the hands of a skewed jury is
unpardonable. Of perhaps equal gravity are the implications
of today's opinion for the established right of every criminal
defendant to a jury drawn from a fair cross section of the
community. Taylor v. Louisiana, supra. If, as the Court
suggests, the Sixth Amendment jury right requires only a
"quest ... for jurors who will conscientiously apply the law
and find the facts," ante, at 423-if, in other words, the only
pertinent question is whether the individual jurors are impartial, see Duren v. Missouri, 439 U. S. 357, 371, n. (1979)
(REHNQUIST, J., dissenting); Taylor v. Louisiana, supra, at
538 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting)-then the right to a jury
drawn from a fair cross section of the community is lost.
IV
Though the unexplained evisceration of Witherspoon's
protections of a capital defendant's Sixth Amendment rights
is the most troubling accomplishment of the opinion for the
Court, its discussion of the proper standard of review of

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

469 U. S.

state-court Witherspoon determinations cannot pass without
some comment. One evident purpose of the Court's redefinition of the standards governing death-qualification is to bring
review of death-qualfication questions within the scope of the
presumption of correctness of state-court factual findings on
federal collateral review. 28 U. S. C. §2254(d). In recent
cases the Court has held that the question whether a juror is
biased is a question of fact and therefore review of a trial
court's voir dire decision to exclude or not exclude receives a
presumption of correctness under §2254(d). E. g., Patton
v. Yount, 467 U. S. 1025 (1984).
Had the Court maintained Witherspoon's strict standards
for death-qualification, there would be no question that
trial-court decisions to exclude scrupled jurors would not be
questions of fact subject to the presumption of correctness.
Whether a prospective juror with qualms about the death
penalty expressed an inability to abide by an oath with sufficient strength and clarity to justify exclusion is certainly
a "mixed question"- an application of a legal standard to
undisputed historical fact. Even if one were to accept the
Court's redefinition of the proper standards for deathqualification, it would not follow that the Court's holding with
respect to the applicability of §2254(d) is correct. JUSTICE
STEVENS, dissenting in Patton v. Yount, supra, has persuasively demonstrated that "the question whether a juror has
an opinion that disqualifies is a mixed one of law and fact,"
id., at 1052, because the question is "'whether the nature and
strength of the opinion formed are such as in law necessarily
... raise the presumption of partiality."' Ibid., (quoting
Irvin v. Dowd, 366 U. S. 717, 723 (1961)).
V
Today's opinion for the Court is the product of a saddening
confluence of three of the most disturbing trends in our constitutional jurisprudence respecting the fundamental rights
of our people. The first is the Court's unseemly eagerness to

WAINWRIGHT v. WITT
412

BRENNAN,

J., dissenting

recognize the strength of the State's interest in efficient law
enforcement and to make expedient sacrifices of the constitutional rights of the criminal defendant to such interests.
United States v. Leon, 468 U. S. 897, 929-930 (1984) (BRENNAN, J., dissenting).
The second is the Court's increasing
disaffection with the previously unquestioned principle, endorsed by every Member of this Court, that "because of its
severity and irrevocability, the death penalty is qualitatively
different from any other punishment, and hence must be
accompanied by unique safeguards . . . ." Spaziano v.
Florida, 468 U. S., at 468 (STEVENS, J., concurring in part
and dissenting in part). E. g., Pulley v. Harris, 465 U. S.
37 (1984); Spaziano v. Florida,supra, at 461-464 (opinion of
the Court); Barclay v. Florida,463 U. S. 939 (1983). The
third is the Court's increasingly expansive definition of
"questions of fact" calling for application of the presumption
of correctness of 28 U. S. C. § 2254(d) to thwart vindication
of fundamental rights in the federal courts. E. g., Patton v.
Yount, supra; Rushen v. Spain, 464 U. S. 114 (1983); Marshall v. Lonberger, 459 U. S. 422 (1983). These trends all
reflect the same desolate truth: we have lost our sense of the
transcendent importance of the Bill of Rights to our society.
See United States v. Leon, supra, at 980 (STEVENS, J., dissenting) ("[I]t is the very purpose of a Bill of Rights to identify values that may not be sacrificed to expediency"). We
have lost too our sense of our own role as Madisonian "guardians" of these rights. See 1 Annals of Cong. 439 (1789) (remarks of James Madison). Like the death-qualified juries
that the prosecution can now mold to its will to enhance the
chances of victory, this Court increasingly acts as the adjunct
of the State and its prosecutors in facilitating efficient and expedient conviction and execution irrespective of the Constitution's fundamental guarantees. One can only hope that this
day too will soon pass.

