116

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

attorney's fee arose out of litigation conducted in the
name of the ward. It was paid for her benefit out of her
income.
In Freulerv.Helvering, 291 U. S. 35, 44, we said: "The
whole of the minor's income received by his guardian is
taxable to the minor irrespective of its accumulation in
the guar.diari's hands, distribution to the minor or pay-.
ment for his support or education. .. . Either the
minor. or his guardian must make the return, but in either
case it embraces all the -income and is the minor's individual return, not that of the guardian or the trust."
The.ward was not engaged in any business. So far as
appears the same thing is true of the guardian. See Kornhauser v. United States, 276 U. S. 145; Commissioner v.
Field,42 F. (2d) 820; Hutchings v. Burnet, 61 App. D. C.
109; 58 F. (2d) 514; Walker v. Commissioner, 63 F: (2d)
351; L.indley -V.Commissioner, 63 F. (2d) 807. Moreover,
guardianship is not recognized by the statute as a taxable
entity.
The judgmen under review must be

Affirmed.
HALLENBECK, RECEIVER, v. LEIMERT,
RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 600.

Argued April 5, 1935-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Overdraft checks, drawn on a bank affiliated with a clearing-house,
were presented to the drawee, through a clearing-house settlement,
by a member bank which had received them from an indorser bank
for collection. The drawee failed to comply with a clearing-house
rule requiring it to notify the member bank within a specified time
in case of nonpayment, but returned the checks later, for reimbursement, to the indorser bank, which was neither a member nor

HALLENBECK v, LEIMERT.
116

Argument for Respondent.

an affiliate of the clearing-house. Held that the checks were paid
and the indorser not liable. P. 122.
2. An overdraft check, deposited by an indorser bank with a collecting bank was credited by the collector to the indorser's account,
charged against the drawee's account, and sent to the drawee.
The drawee accepted the check and gave no notice of its dishonor
to the collecting bank, but later returned it to the indorser bank
for reimbursement. Held that the, check had been paid and the
indorser was-not liable. P. 122.
3. Semble that § 102, par. 1 of the Illinois Negotiable Instruments
Law refers to the time for giving notice of dishonor, not to the
time within which the drawee of a check dishonored may return
it after tentative clearing-house settlement, nor to advice concerning overdrafts. P. 123.
72 F. (2d) 480, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 699, to review the affirmance of
a judgment recovered in an action on checks.
Messrs. Russell F. Locke and George P. Barse, with
whom Messrm. Raymond M. Ashcraft and F. G. Awalt
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Daniel M. Healy for respondent.
Whether the Central Bank was a holder or bearer of
the checks depends on whether its conduct constituted
final and irrevocable payment. If it did, not, then the
Central Bank was a holder or bearer, with all the rights
of the prior holder in due course. National Bank of
Commerce v. Seattle, 109 Wash. 312, 322; First National
Bank v. Bank of Cottage Grove, 59 Ore. 388.
The Central Bank under the circumstances was a holder
in due course, but if not a holder in due course, it certainly
was a holder or bearer, at least up-to the time when notidb
of non-payment was required by the clearing-house rules.
Four of tife checks were endorsed by Ashland Bank ta
the Federal Reserve Bank, which, in turn, endorsed them
payable to any bank or banker. The other check was

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

295 U. S.

endorsed by Ashland Bank payable to the First National
Bank, which endorsed it in blank. This made them payable to bearer. Negotiable Instruments Act, § 9, subsec. 5.
The Federal Reserve Bank and the First National Bank
were holders in due course of the respective checks. Negotiable Ifistruments Act, § 58.
The fact that the Central Bank gave its check in settlement of the clearing-house balance, and that four of the
checks were among those which went to make up this
balance, does not constitute payment. After making
such settlement, the Central Bank had the right to a
reasonable opportunity to examine the checks and the
accounts on which they were drawn, and dishonor the
checks that were not supported by the account on which
they were drawn. Schneider v. Bank of Italy, 194 Pac.
1021; Columbia-K. Trust Co. v. Miller, 215 N. Y. 191;
Hentz v. National .City Bank, 144 N. Y. 979; 5 Michie,
Banks & Banking, 575.
Failure of the Central Bank to notify the clearinghouse in the one case, and the First National Bank, in
the other, of non-payment within the. time limit prescribed by the rules of the clearing-house, did not constitute final and irrevocable payment as to the Ashland
Bank, as the latter was not a member of the clearinghouse, and, therefore, in no way affected by its rules.
The rules of the clearing-house are binding upon and
for the benefit of its members alone and non-members
cannot claim their benefit. 1 Morse, Banks & Banking
(6th ed.) 810; 8 Michie, Banks & Banking, 165; Brady,
Bank Checks (2d ed.),.503; National Exchange Bank v.
Ginn & Co., 114 Md. 181; Merchants National Bank v.
National Bank, 139 Mass. 518.
It is to be observed in this respect that the Ashland
Bank, so far as it is concerned in this transaction, was no
more or better than an ordinary individual customer of
the Federal Reserve Bank.

HALLENBECK v. LEIMERT.
116

Opinion of the Cour.

There was no duty owing from Central Bank to Ashland Bank under the clearing-house rules. Therefore, the
only possible requirement was that of giving notice of
non-payment of the checks as required by law. This
was done. Central Bank was not required to give notice
to all indorsers but only to those it intended to hold.
The settlement remained conditional as to the indorsers
who were members of the clearing-house until -two thirty
o'clock in the afternoon of the day the checks were presented; and notice not having been given by that time,
they were discharged. As to non-members, it remained
conditional until the-expiration of the time prescribed
by the Negotiable Instruments Law. Notice was given
to Ashlahd Bank within that time.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent, receiver of Central Bank, brought suit
against petitioner, receiver of Ashland Bank, in the District Court, Northern District of Illinois, to recover upon
five checks drawn upon the former and endorsed by the
latter bank. Jury having been waived, the trial court
made findings of fact with conclusions of law and entered
judgment in favor of respondent here for the sum demanded. There is no bill of exceptions; the findings
control.
From these it appearsAll the banks spoken of herein were located in Chicago.
James G. Hodgkinson was vice-president and director of
Ashland Bank; also vice-president of Hodgkinson & Durfee, Inc., which had a deposit account with Central Bank.
Against this account he drew the corporation's five checks,
and delivered them to Ashland Bank. It endorsed and
deposited four of them with Federal Reserve Bank for
collection, Saturday, April 23rd. The fifth check duly
endorsed went for collection to the First National Bank.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The Federal Reserve and First National Banks were
regular members of the Chicago Clearing House Association; Central Bank an affiliate; Ashland Bank was neither
member nor affiliate. A rule of the Chicago Clearing
House provided"Ili order that the member banks presenting such items
may have an opportunity to give special instructions as
to the protest of unpaid items, that notice of non-payment of any such items drawn on banks ... which are...
affiliated with members of the association... and which
have their places of business located ... on 12th Street
or south thereof, be given by telephone before two-thirty
o'clock (2:30) p.m. of the same day to the member banks
presenting such items through the Clearing House . . ."
* Early Monday morning, April 25th, The Federal Reserve Bank turned in the four deposited checks to the
Chicago Clearing House. -According to the rules and
practices, Central Bank settled the indicated adverse balance at the Clearing House and before 11: 30 a. m. received the checks. Several hours later it learned that
Hodgkinson & Durfee lacked funds to meet them.
On the same day First National Bank, which carried
accounts with both Central and Ashland Banks, charged
the check received from the latter against the former's
account, and sent it by messenger to the drawee's place of
business, where it was received and retained.
When the Central Bank ascertained the status of
Hodgkinson & Durfee's account, it notified Hodgkinson.
At 9: 30 a. m. the following morning, April 26th, the five
checks were returned to Ashland Bank for reimbursement.
This was refused. No notice was given by Central Bank
to either Federal Reserve or First National Bank. They
"got the money from the Central Bank and in turn gave
the money to the Ashland Bank."
The trial court concluded the checks were not unconditionally paid; also that the notice to Ashland Bank on

HALLENBECK v. LEIMERT.
116

Opinion of the Court.

April 25th under § 102, Negotiable Instruments Law; Par.
124, Cahill's Ill. R. 'S., sufficed to fix responsibility. Accordingly judgment went against petitioner.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, and among
other things, said"It is conceded by both parties that, if payment were
actually made by the bank on which the checks were
drawn (in this case the Central Bank) or if, instead of
actual payment, an unconditional credit had been given,
then, though it were later discovered that there were
insufficient funds on deposit in the account of the maker
to cover the checks, the payment would be absolute and
irrevocable. ...
The method of transacting business
followed by the Clearing House Association contemplates
that the members will immediately examine the various
items which go to make up-the balance and only the
subsequent lapse of time without electing to dishonor the
check causes the settlement to become final. In the case
of members of the Clearing House, the time within which
notice must be given is fixed by agreement. In the case
of banks not members of the Clearing House, the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Law must govern as
to what length of time may elapse before the tentative
payment becomes final and irrevocable. . . The Ashland Bank was not a member of, or affiliated with, the
Clearing House Association, and is vested with no rights
based upon its rules. . . . The Central Bank having
elected to recover from the Ashland Bank directly, all
that was necessary to bring the giving of notice of dishonor within the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Law was that notice be given 'before the close of
business hours on the day following."'
And it cited Cahill's Ill. Stat., 1933, c. 98, par. 124 (§ 102,
Negotiable Instruments Law) which provides:
"Where the person giving and the person to receive no- tice reside in the same place, notice must be given within
the following times:

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

"1. If given at the place of business of the person to
receive notice, it must be given before the close of business
hours on the day following."
We think the conduct of Central Bank constituted final
irrevocable payment of the five checks, as if cash had
passed'over the counter. And if this be correct, counsel
do not maintain that the judgment below can be sustained.
Settlement at the Clearing House, in respect of the
four checks turned in by the Federal Reserve Bank, was
at first provisional, subject to be withdrawn or corrected
upon notice given before 2: 30 o'clock. After this provisional settlement the drawee accepted delivery of the
checks and gave no notice of dishonor prior to two-thirty
o'clock. The time having expired, payment became absolute. The fifth check, presented by the First National
Bank, after being charged to the drawee's account, was
not dishonored, but upon presentation was accepted without reservation. Payment then became complete and
irrevocable. Central Bank did not repudiate or question
the charge against its account at the First National Bank.
On'the contrary this was ratified. See National Bank v.
Burkhardt, 100 U. S. 686, 689; American Nat. Bank v.
Miller, 229 U. S. 517, 520. Both collecting banks transmitted the proceeds received to Ashland Bank.
Apparently the argument in support of the judgment
below is this-The checks in the hands of the collecting banks were
payable to bearer, and held in due course. The drawee
bank did not in fact pay the checks, but after becoming
holder, dishonored them. Thereafter, within the time
prescribed by § 102, Negotiable Instruments Law, it gave
notice to the first endorser and thus fixed the obligation to
pay. Admitted payment to the collecting bank is excused upon the theory that this resulted from rules of
the Clearing House, not applicable to Ashland Bank, a
non-member.

HELVERING v. RANKIN.
116

Syllabus.

Since payment was actually made to the collecting
bank, and never repudiated, it seems impossible to conclude that the secondary liability assumed by endorsers
remained in force. As the checks were not dishonored
when presented, the endorser could onlv have been advised that when paid the drawee lacked funds to meet
them.
The Ashland Bank is not seeking to enforce rules of
the Clearing House. It asks that proper effect be given
to actual payment made through compliance with those
rules. The duty of the drawee bank was either to pay or
refuse to pay when the holder presented and demanded
final payment of the checks. It paid them. The tentative payments became final-as much so as if money
had passed. No objection is made to the Clearing House
rules and we find none.
Section 102 of the Negotiable Instruments Law refers
to notice of dishonor, not to the time within which a dishonored check may be returned, nor to advice concerning
an overdraft. It does not relate to tentative payments
and is without application in circumstances like those
here disclosed. At least that seems clear to us and there
is no holding to the contrary by.the courts of Illinois.
The record reveals no attempt to recover because of
fraud, mutual mistake, or other similar circumstance.
The questioned judgment must be reversed. One will
be entered here for the petitioner.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. RANKIN, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

,No. 582.

Argued March 14, 15, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. For the purpose of ascertaining the taxable gain from a sale of
corporate shares made through a broker while he has them in a

