SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES:
490

495

Syllabus.

The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with
instructions that the writ must be sustained and the
prisoner discharged.
Reversed.
A, L. A. SCHECHTER POULTRY CORP. ET AL. V.

'UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 854.

Argued May 2, 3, 1935.-Decided May 27, 1935.

-1. Extraordinary conditions, such as an'economic crisis, may call for
extraordinary remedies, but they can not create or enlarge constitutional power. P. 528.
2. Congress is not permitted by the Constituti6n to abdicate, or to
transfer to others, the essential legislative functions" with which
it is vested. Art, I, § 1; Art. I, § 8, par. 18. PanamaRefining Co.
v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388. P. 529.
3. Congress may leave to selected instrumentalities the making of
subordinate rules within prescribed limits, and the determination
of facts to which the policy, as declared by Congress, is to apply;
but it must itself lay down the policies and establish standards.
P. 530.
4. The delegation of legislative power sought to be made to the
President by § 3 of the National Industrial Recovery Act of June
16, 1933, is unconstitutional (pp. 529 et seq.); and the Act is
also unconstitutional, as applied in this case, because it exceeds
the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce and invades
the power reserved exclusively to the States (pp. 542 et sq.).
5. Section 3 of the National Industrial Recovery Act provides that
"codes of fair competition," which shall be the "standards of- fair
competition" for the trades and industries to which they relate,
may be approved by the President upon application of repure sentative associations of the trades or industries to be affected, or
may be prescribed by him on his own motion. Their provisions
* Together with No. 864, United States v. A. L. 'A. Schechter
Poultzy Corp. et al. Certiorari to the Circuit Cdurt of Appeals for
the Second Circuit.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

are to be enforced by injunctions from the federal courts, and
"any violation, of any of their provisions in any transaction in or
affecting interstate commerce" is to be deemed an unfair method
of competition within the meaning of the Federal Trade Commission Act and is to be punished as a crime against the United States.
Before approving, the President is to make certain findings as to
the character of the association presenting' the code and absence of
design to promote monopoly or oppress small enterprises, and must
find that it will "tend to effectuate the policy of this title."
Codes permitting monopolies or monopolistic practices are forbidden. The Presidernt may "impose such conditions (including
requirements for the making of reports and the keeping of
accounts) for ,the protection of consumers, competitors, employees and others, and in the furtherance of the public interest,
and may provide such exceptions and exemptions from the provisions of such code," as he, in his discretioh, deems necessary "to
effectuate the policy herein declared." A code prescribed by him
is to have the same effect as one approved on application. Held:
(1) The statutory plan is not simply, one of voluntary effort;
the "codes of fair competition" are meant to be codes of laws.
P. 529.
(2) The meaning of the term " fair competition" (not expressly
defined in the Act) is clearly not the mere antithesis of "unfair
competition," as known to the common law, or of "unfair methods
of competition" under the Federal Trade Commission Act. P. 531.
(3) In authorizing the President to approve codes which "will
tend to effectuate the policy of this title,' § 3 of the Act refers to
the Delaration of Policy in § 1. The purposes declared in § 1
are all directed to the rehabilitation of industry and 'the industrial
recovery which was the major policy of Congress in adopting the
Act. P. 534.
(4) That this is the' controlling-purpose of the code now before
the Court appears both from its repeated declarations to that effect
and from the scope of its requirements. P. 536.
(5) The authority sought to be conferred by § 3 was not merely
to deal with "unfair competitive practices" which offend against
existing law, or to create administrative machinery for the application of established principles of law to particular instances of violation. Rather, the purpose is clearly disclosed to authorize new
and controlling prohibitions through codes of laws which would
embrace what the formulators would propose, and what the Presi-

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

497

Syllabus.

dent would approve or prescribe, as wise oand beneficent measures
for the government of trades and industries, in order to bring about
their rehabilitation, correction and "improvement, according to the
general declaration of policy in § 1. Codes of laws of this sort are
styled " codes of fair competition." P. 535.
(6) A delegation of its legislative authority to trade or industrial associations, empowering them to enact laws for the rehabilitation and expansion of their trades or industries, would be utterly
inconsistent with the constitutional prerogatives and. duties of
Congress. P. 537.
(7) Congress can not delegate legislative power to the President
to exercise an unfettered discretion to make whatever la's he 'thinks
may be needed or advisable for the rehabilitation and expansion of
trade and industry. P. 537.
(S) '1he only limits set by the Act to the President's discretion
are, that he shall find, first, that the association or group proposing a code imposes no inequitable restrictions on admission to
membership and is truly representative; second, that the code is
not designed to promote -monopolies or to eliminate or oppiess
small enterprises and will not operate to discriminate against
them; and third, that it "will tend to effectuate the policy of this
title,"-this last being" a mere stateqient of opinion. These ate
the only findings which Congress has made essential in order to put
into operation a legislative code having the aims described in the
"Declaration of Policy." P. 538:
(9) ,Under the Act, the, President, in approving a code, may impose his own conditions, adding to or taking from what is pro-.
posed, as "in his'discretion" he thinks necessary "to effectuate the
when he
policy" declared by the Act. He has no less libei
prescribes a code on his own motion or on complaint, and he is
free to prescribe one if a code has not been approved: P. 538. •
(10) The acts and reports of the administrative agencies which
the President may create under the Act -have no sanction beyond
his will. Their recommendations and findings in no- way limit tlie
authority which § 3 undertakes to vest in him. And this authority
relates to a host of different trades and industries, thus extending
the President's discretion to all the varieties of laws which he may
deem to be beneficial in dealing with the vast array of comnmercial
activities throughout the country. P..539.
(11) Such a sweeping delegation of. legislative power finds no
support in decisions of this Court defining and su~tainin, the

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

powers granted to the Interstate Commerce Commission, to the
Radio Commission, and to the President when acting under the
"flexible tariff" provisions of the Tariff Act of 1922. P. 539.
(12)-Section 3 of the Recovery Act is without precedent. It
supplies no standards for any trade, industry or activity. It does
not undertak@-to prescribe rules of conduct to be applied to particular states of fact determined by appropriate administrative
procedure. Instead, it authorizes the making of codes to prescribe
them. For that legislative undertaking it sets up no standards,
aside from the statement of the general aims of rehabilitation,
correction-and e pansion, found in § 1. In view of the broad scope
of that declaration, and of the nature of the few restrictions that
are imposed, the discretion of the President in approving or pe-*
scribing codes, and thus enacting laws for the government of trade
and industry throughout the country, is virtually unfettered. The
code-making authority thus sought to be conferred is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. P. 541.,.
6. Defendants were engaged in the business of slaughtering chickens
and selling them to retailers. They bought their fowls from commission men in a market where most of the supply was shipped in
-- from other States, transported them to their slaughterhouses, and
there held them for slaughter and local cale to retail dealers and
butchers, who in turn sold dif'ectly to consumers. They were
indicted for disobeying the requirements of a " Code of Fair Competition for the-Live Poultry Industry of the Metropolitan Area
in and about the City of New York," approved by the President
under § 3 of the National Industrial Recovery Act. The alleged
violations werei failure to observe in their place of business provisions fixing minimum wages' and maximum hours for employees;
permitting customers to select individual chickens from particular
coops and half-coops; sale of an unfit chicken; sales without compliande with- municipal inspection regulations and to slaughterers
and dealers not licensed under such regulations; making false reports and failure to make reports relating to range of daily prices
and volume of sales. Held:
(1) When the poultry had reached the defendants' slaughter,houses, the interstate commerce had ended, and subsequent transactions in, their business, including the matters charged in the
indictment, -were transactions in intrastate commerce. P. 542.
(2) Decisions which deal with a stream of interstate commerce-where goods come to rest within a State temporarily and
are later to go forward in interstate commerce-and with the regu-

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

499

Statement of the Case.

lation of transactions .involved in that practical continuity of
movement, are inapplicable in this case. P. 543.
(3) The distinction between intrastate acts that directly affect
interstate commerce, and therefore are subject to federal regulation, and those that affect it only indirectly, and therefore remain
subject to the power of the States exclusively, is clear in principle,
though the precise line can be drawn only as individual -cases
arise. Pp. 544, 546.
(4) If the commerce clause were construed to reach all enterprises and transactions which could be gaid to have an indirect
effect upon interstate commerce, the federal authority would embrace practipally all the activities of the people, and the authority
of the State over its domestic concerns would exist only by sufferance of the Federal Government. Indeed, on such a theory,
even the development of the State's commercial facilities would
be subject to federal control. P. 546.
(5) The distinction between direct and indirect effects has long
been clearly recognized .in the application of the Anti-Trust Act.
It is fundamental and essential to the maintenance of our constitutional system. P. 547.
(6) The Federal Government can not regulate the wages and
hours of labor of persons employed in the internal commerce of
a State. No justification for such regulation is to be found in the.fact that wages and hours affect costs and prices, and so indirectly
affect interstate commerce; nor in the-fact that failure of some
States to regulate wages and hours diverts commerce from the
States that do regulate them. P. 548.
(7) The provisions of the code which are alleged to have been
violated in this case are not a valid exercise of federal power.
P. 550.
76 F. (2d) 617, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

CERTioRARI,* on the petition of defendants in a criminal
case, to review the judgment below in so far as it affirmed
convictions on a number of the counts of an indictment;
and, on the petition of the Government, to review the
same judgment in so far as it reversed convictions on other
counts. Tht indictment charged violations of a "Live
Poultry Code," and conspiracy to commit them.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Schechter Corp.

295 U. S.

Messrs. Joseph Heller and Frederick H. Wood, with
whom Mr. Jacob E. Heller was on the, brief, for A. L. A.
Schechter Poultry Corp. et al.
Congress has set up no intelligible policies to govern
the President, no standards to guide and restrict his
action, and no procedure for making determinations in
conformity with due process of law.
When Congress has prescribed (1) a reasonably intelligible policy; (2) a reasonably definite standard for
administrative action in carrying out that policy, and (3)
an administrative procedure complying with the requirements of due process of law, administrative action in
accordance therewith does not involve any unconstitutional exercise of legislative power.
Such permissible administrative action is of two kinds:
(a) when the policy which has been laid down by Congress is not to be effective at once or under 'all conditions
and circumstances, a determination in accordance with
the standard laid down by Congress as to when the conditions or circumstances have come into existence which
Congress has said shall make the law operative, and (b)
the carrying out of the policy of Congress by filling in
details or making subordinate rules and regulations in
accordance with the standard laid down by Congress.
Examples of the first class are Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649 and Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394.
Examples of the second class are Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S.364; United States v. Shreveport Grain& Elevator
Co., 287 U. S. 77; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506.
The Interstate Commerce Act and the Federal Radio
Act provide clear standards for administrative action.
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
35; Avent v. UnitedStates, 266 U. S.127; New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287 U. S.12; Fed-

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

501

Argument for Schechter Corp.

eral Radio Com 'Wnv. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266.
Cf. United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1.
There the standards laid down by Congress were far more
definite than mere public interest.
In each and all of these cases the statute had reference
to a particular subject-matter fully described, defined and
limited.
Furthermore, in nearly if not all of the cases in which
this Court has passed upon alleged illegal delegations
of legislative power, the legislation was operative either
in a field where Congress is not required to accord judicial
review (Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 50) or in a
field of actual or natural monopoly (railroads and radio
broadcasting). In a field of the former character the
rights of private property may be seriously affected by
governmental action; but no person has the constitutional
right to protest against such government acts as are involved in tariff-making, the conduct of foreign relations
generally, or the operation of government-owned property; or against those acts necessary to the carrying on of
war, such as the seizure of enemy property. In cases- of
monopoly the right of government regulation is necessarily primary, and private rights subordinate.
If, in truth, the vast domain of all private business is
open to regulation by Congress in the manner contemplated in the Recovery Act, then it is surely true that private citizens directly affected are entitled to have Congress
itself lay down the legislative policies with definiteness,
declare definite standards which are capable of guiding
administrative action and properly restricting it, and to
have provision made for quasi-judicial administrative procedure properly conforming to due process of law. Otherwise dictatorship is surely here, for the fact is that the
Recovery Act attempts to override and ignore not only
the limitations of the commerce clause, but the prohibition against illegal delegation of legislative power and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Schechter Corp.

295 U. S."

constitutional guarantees of substantive due process under the Fifth Amendment as well. It is a bold and unparalleled piece of legislation of the most sweeping and
drastic character.
It can not be denied -that, if the past decisions of this
Court still mean what they say, not even Congress (much
less its delegates) has constitutiQnal authority to fix minimum wages for purely private businesses, even when the
declared purpose is protection of health and morals, and
even when the regulation is.restricted to women and children and to a field in which Congress has the unquestioned power of control. Adkins v. Children's Hospital,
261 U. S. 525. It can not be denied that the decisions
of this Courtwith respect to maximum hours of labor go
no further than to say that a legislature may restrict the
hours of labor in limited situations to 8, 9 or 10 hours, and
that the constitutionality of this restriction is definitely
,predicated solely upon a health relationship.
The Recovery Act throws overboard all these "old fashioned" limitations; it does not even restrict minimum
wages to women or children; it does not restrict them to
particular industrial applications; it takes no account of
the health or morals factors. In its administration 'it is
common knowledge that-this bold attempt to dictate has
spread out into every conceivable trade, industry, business
or occupation, whether interstate -or intrastate, even to
barber shops and clothes pressing establishments. In the
case of maximum hours of labor not the slightest attempt
has been made in the statute, or in its administration, to
,relate the fixing of maximum hours to individual health.
No consideration has been paid to the question whether
61 pot ihe public has any real interest in the businesses,
trades, occupations or industries regulated. The regimentation has been all pervasive and all inclusive, and liberty
of contract has been utterly ignored.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

503

Argument for Schechter Corp.

It must be admitted that even in the case of public
utilities having monopolistic privileges, such as the railroads, the electric and gas companies, etc., any power to
fix minimum wages has been recognized only once by this
Court, and then only as a purely temporary measure to
tide over a special and limited situation. Wilson v. New,
243 U. S. 332: It is now proposed to discard all limitations under the theory of a general emergency, and to
relate the fixing merely to the vague concept of public
welfare.
The decision in the'oil cases clearly demonstrates an
illegal delegation of legislative power in § 3 of the Recovery Act. PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan and Amazon
Petroleum Corp. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, 418.
Closely in point are People v. Klinck Packing Co., 214
N. Y. 121, and Gibson Auto Co. v. Finnegan, (Wis.) 259
N. W 420.
The Recovery Act prescribes no constitutional method
or procedure for ascertaining what are unfair methods of,
competition, and in this respect totally differs from the
Federal Trade Commission Act.
Section 3 of the Recovery Act makes no provision for
notice to persons in the industry, particularly those not
members of the applicant trade or industrial association;
and no provision whatsoever is expressly made for a hearing to determine whether the provisions in the proposed
code are properly contained therein. No evidence is required to be taken and no findings of fact are required
to be made by the President, except some that have no
relation at all to the fairness or unfairness of most of the
practices prohibited. The President is free to act in a
purely arbitrary manner. He need not say why he acts.
Nevertheless, as a result of thc formulation of a code by
an unofficial trade body in this manner and the approval
thereof by the President, the wide range of prohibitions

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Schechter Corp.

295 U. S.

contained in such a code as the Live Poultry Code, all
become criminal offenses.
Section 7 requires certain labor provisions to be inserted in every code which the President approves. The
statute can, however, be searched from beginning to end
and no clue will be found to the problem ot what other
provisions may be inserted. It does not seem that it was
intended that the provisions of the codes were to be restricted to what was deemed "unfair competition" at common law or to what have been declared "unfair methods
of competition" by the courts in construing the Federal
Trade Commission Act. The evident intention, was to
allow the freest latitude in formulating so-called codes of
fair competition in order that the unofficial ideas of preponderant majorities in particular trades and industries,
if they happened to coincide or could be made to coincide
with the President's idea of- "fair competition," might be
enacted into law.
This Court has in no uncertain way prescribed the procedure required to make administrative action conform
to due process of law. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88; United States v.
Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274; Crowell v.
Benson, 285 U. S. 22; Wichita R. & L. Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 260 U. S. 48, 59; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Virginia, 290 U. S. 190.
The President has made no findings' of fact to bring his
action in approving the code within any policy or standard which the Act may contain. PanamaRefining Co. v.
Ryan, 293 U. S. 388. See also Floridav. United States,
282 U. S. 194, 215; United States v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co., 293 U. S. 454; United States v. Chicago, M. & St.
P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 50.
Furthermore, there are obviously no administrative
findings of any kind whatsoever which relate the provisions of the Live Poultry Code to any of the alleged

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

505

Argument for Schechter Corp.

policies set forth in § 1 of the Recovery Act. In none of
the administrative documents referred to is there any
statement that such findings as may have been made were
made upon the basis of the "evidence" introduced at the
public hearing.
If § 1 were the only guide, there is no action conceivable which the President could not take with respect to,
the regulation of industry and have it fit into one or more
of the pigeon-holes provided in § 1. The alleged standards
of § 1 do not in any way make more definite or limit the
wholly unlimited authorization in § 7 for "maximum
hours of labor" and "minimum rates of pay."
Certainly no decision of this Court, or of any other
so far as we are aware, has ever held that hours-of labor
or rates of pay to workmen have any relation to the wellknown concepts of "unfair competition" or "unfair methods
of competition." See Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, 198 U. S.
118; Hanover Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, 412; Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427-8.
The Recovery Act authorizes the President to re-delegate the almost illimitable powers conferred on him by
the Act to various commissions, bureaus, officers, and
other agencies. The result is that these various bodies
and functionaries have the power to make the laws of the
United States. It is common knowledge that it is impossible for an ordinary citizen to know what these laws are,
not only because of their tremendous volume, but also
because they are constantly shifting and changing, and
because nowhere can be found a comprehensive collection
of the thousand and one enactments which are almost
daily ground out by these agencies and which in many
cases are unintelligible and inconsistent. See Report of
the Special Committee of Administrative Law, 57th
Annual Meeting of the American Bar Assn., pp. 215-216.
The scope of the Recovery Act is evidenced by the
codes enacted thereunder.

-506

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Schechter Corp.

295 U. S.

In no less than 17 cases, the Recovery Act or its application has been declared unconstitutional during the past
two years by United States District Courts from Florida
to Idaho. Purvis v. Bazemore, 5 F. Supp. 230; United
States v. Suburban Motor Service Corp., 5 F. Supp...798;
Unlted 'States v. Lieto, 6 F. Supp. 32- United States v.
Smith, District C6urt, Eastern. District of Texas, Feb.
26, 1934; Hart Coal Corp. v. Sparks, 7 F. Supp. 16;
United States v. Mills, 7 F. Supp. 547; 'United States v.
Gearhart,7 F. Supp. 712; United States v. Eason Oil Co.,
8 F. Supp. 365; United States v. Belcher, 104 C. C. H.,
par. 7247; United States v. Kinnebrew Motor Co., 8 F.
Supp. 535; United Statds'v. George, 104 C. C.' H., par.
7298; Table Supply Stores v. Hawking, 9 F. Supp. 888;
United States v. Superior Products Co., 9 F. Supp. 943United States v. Weirton Steel Co., 10 F. Supp. 55;
United States v.-National Garment Co., "10F. Supp. 104;
The Acme, Inc. v. Besson,-10 F. Supp. 1.
The briefest reflection convinces that if the theory is
once accepted that the Constitution confers a power of
undetermined extent to regulate anything and everything which "affects" interstate commerce, and that the
question of what does affect it is to be determined as a
matter of economic fact in each particular case, then
the Constitution has been amended by statute into a
document which would never have been adopted or ratified originally, and-what is more serious- the whole
theory upon which our system of government is founded
and upon which it has been maintained is gone.
Under the construction of the commerce clause now
advanced by the Government, the United States loses its
character as " a government of laws, and not of men," and
the doctrine of enumerated powers is gone.
Acceptance of the Government's view as to the extent
of thQ commerce clause is inconsistent with the maintenance of our dual svst-m of aovernment.

-

495

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.

507

Argument for Schechter Corp.

If the Government's view as to the scope of the commerce power be accepted, the field of individual liberty,
heretofore regarded as secure from governmental encroachment in certain fundamental aspects, will be greatly
restricted and potentially subject to complete extinction.
The minimum wage and maximun hour provisions of
the code are beyond the purview of the commerce clause
and are in contravention of the Fifth Amendment.
Production, whether by way of manufacture, mining,
farming or any other activity, is not commerce and is not
subject to regulation under the commerce clause. In so
holding in previous cases this Court-has been guided by
the consideration that to, hold otherwise would be destructive of our dual system of government and extend to
the Federal Government the power to nationalize industry. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; United States v. knight Co., 156 U. S. 1;
United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U.,S.
344; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245;
United Leather Workers v. Herkert, 265 U. S. 457; Oliver
Iron Co, v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 178-179; 'Utah Power &
Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Champlin Rig. Co. v.
CorporationComm'n, 286 U. S. 210; Chassaniolv. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584,587; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S.
251.
The cases under the Interstate Commerce,' Act, Antitrust Act- and Federal Trade Commission Act are not in
point. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago .Boardof Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; and Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420, distinguished.
The argument that regulation of wages and hours may
be sustained because of the necessity for uniformity in
all the States, finds no support in the Constitution, and
the conception 6f federal power upon which it rests has
already.been rejected by this Court. - McCuiloch v. Mary-

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

295 U. S.

land, 4 Wheat. 316, 405; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.
46, 81-82.
In the final analysis the contention made rests upon
a non-existent power in the Federal Government to enact any act deemed by it necessary or desirable to promote the general welfare.
The wage and hour provisions of the code are in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The "straight killing" provision is void because neither
a-regulation of interstate commerce nor a regulation sustain.ble under any definition of fair competition, and
because violative of the Fifth Amendment.
The code provisions forbidding the sale of unfit poultry,
requiring inspection in accordance with local inspection
laws, and forbidding sale to any persons other than those
licensed under local license laws are not regulations of
interstate commerce or within the purview of the commerce clause.
The code provision requiring filing of reports is, not
within the commerce clause.
The penal provision of the Recovery Act is wholly
vague and indefinite and hence unconstitutionaleand void.
Mr. Donald R. Richberg and Solicitor General Reed,
with whom Assistant Attorney General Stephens and
Messrs. Charles H. Weston, M. S. Huberman, Walter L.
Rice, G. Stanleigh Arnold, Golden W. Bell, Carl McFarland, and Phillip Buck were on the brief, for the United
States.
The New York market dominates the live poultry industry, and determines the prices in other markets as well
as the prices received by shippers and farmers.
Each of the practices which the Code regulates affects
substantially the price, quality and volume of poultry
shipped into this market. The sale. of unfit poultry in

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

509

Argument for the United States.

competition with wholesome grades biings down the price
structure for all grades, the effect being disproportionate
to the relative amount of unfit poultry sold. A principal
reason is the resulting distrust on the part of the consumers, who are generally unable to distinguish good from
unfit poultry before it is dressed. It is estimated that if
unfit poultry could be excluded from the market by effectively prohibiting its sale in New York, there would be an
increase of about 20 per cent. in the consumption and
shipment of live poultry.
Failure to inspect, and sales to unlicensed dealers, produce the same consequences as does sale of unfit poultry,
since these practices facilitate such sale. Selective killing, i. e., selling, likewise demoralizes the price structure
by depressing the price for good poultry rejected from
coops by the earliest purchasers at the slaughterhouse.
The practice of selective killing or selling has also tended
to prevent the development -of grading before. shipment
on the basis of quality,, and so has prevented an accurate
price basis for poultry as sold by farmers or other shippers.
The payment of unduly low wages, and the exaction
of a long working week, contribute in the same way to the
adverse effects on the price structure, and the quality and
volume of live poultry shipped into New York. Because
of the unusually sharp competition in this industry, and
the close margin on which slaughterhouse operators work,
any saving in wage costs is translated into a reduction in
price. The effect is to lower the price, to induce the sale
of unfit and inferior grades of poultry by competitors, and
so tp cause a diversion of trade and shipments from live
to dressed poultry, and to induce a progressive breakdown of the live-poultry market.
The court below apparently proceeded on an a prioi
and erroneous distinction between the labor and other
practices prohibited, with respect to their effect on inter-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

295 U. S.

state commerce. Although the question was treated as
one of degree, the majority of the court did not suggest
that there was no evidence to support the finding of the
jury that violation of the labor provisions produced the
same consequences as violation of the other provisions in
question.
Under the decisions of this Court, the Code provisions
which the petitioners violated are within the commerce
power of the Congress. Local No. 167 v. United States,
291 U. S. 293, indicates that, under the facts of this industfy, the practices of the wholesale slaughterhouses are
so closely related to the preceding interstate movement
that, from the standpoint of federal regulation, whether
under the Sherman Act or otherwise, it makes no difference what parts of their business are "in" interstate commerce, and what parts, if any, are on the fringe of such
commerce but necessary to its proper functioning. Irrespective of the extent to which the slaughterhouse operators are engaged "in" interstate commerce, their practices are subject to federal regulation. The effect of those
practices on the national price and on the interstate movement of poultry is no less than the effect of' the local
activities in a dominant market regulated under the Grain
Futures Act, or the Packers and Stockyards Act, or the
Sherman Act. Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1;
Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; United Statesv. Patten,
226 U. S. 525. Moreover, the effect of the practices on
the quality of the goods shipped and on the trustworthiness of goods in interstate commerce affords an additional
basis for federal regulation. Thornton v. United States,
271 U. S. 414; United States v. Ferger,250 U. S. 199.
Citing and discussing: United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366; Coronado Coal Co. v. United
.Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295; Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Western Meat Co., 272 U: S. 554; Northern Securities Co.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

511

Argument for the United States.

v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Royal Milling Co., 288 U. S. 212; Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Algoma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67; Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Tagg Bros: & Moorhead y. United States, 280 U. S. 420; American Column
& Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377; United
States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392; Colorado
v. United States, 271 U. S. 153; Floridav. United States,
292 U. S. 1; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro.,
291 U. S. 304; Houston, E. & W. T. R. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342; Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B.
& Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563.
Cases which hold that a state tax upon or regulation
of manufacture or production does not burden interstate
coinmerce because manufacture and production are not
interstate commerce, do not fix the permissible limits of
the commerce power of Congress. See Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U. S. 1; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S.
245; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfpst, 286 U. S. 165.
Distinguished: United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal
Co., 259 U. S. 344; United Leather Workers v. Herkert &
Meisel Co., 265 U. S. 457.
Petitioners are importers of poultry from other States
and Congress "may regulate their handling and sale of
such poultry. Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 110, 111;
See also Heymann v. Southern Ry. Co., 203 U. S: 270;
Rosenbergerv. Pacific Express Co., 241 U. S. 48; Baldwi
v. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511; Greater New York Live.
Poultry Chamber of Commerce v. United States, 47 F.
(2d) 156; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375,
398-399; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Tagg Bros.
& Moorheadv. United States, 280 U. S. 420.
The intermediate delivery of the poultry to the receivers at the railroad terminals does not break the interstate
character of the movement from shippers in other States

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

295 U. S.

to slaughterhouse operators. Binderup v. Path6 Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, 309; Peoples Natural Gas Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 270 U. S. 550.
Intrastate transactions can be regulated by the Federa! Government where those transactions are so interwoven with interstate commerce that the latter can not
be effectively regulated without control of the former.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Houston, E. & W.
T. R. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342.
-The minimum wage and maximum hour provisions of
the Code are not controlled by the decision in Hammer v.
Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251. See also Brooks v. United
States, 267 U. S. 432, 438.
Regulation may be valid when Congress int9nded to
act and did act under its commerce power although regulation of the same kind could not be supported under this
power when Congress intended to act and did act under
some other power. Cf. Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262
U. S. 1; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44. Legislation, enacted for a purpose within constitutional power is valid
although other ends not within such power were sought
to be attained. Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251.
276.
It is submitted that what practices and conditions
materially affect interstate commerce, so as to be within
federal control, is a question of fact. Trade practices
and labor conditions, which in normal times would have
only an indirect and incidental effect upon interstate
commerce, may substantially burden interstate commerce
during a period of overproduction, cutthroat competition,
unemployment, and reduced purchasing power. See
Richmond Hosiery Mills v. Camp, 7 F. Supp. 139, 144;
,Southport Petroleum Co. v. Ickes, 61 Wash. L. Rep. 577.
The issue presented for determination here should not be
prejudiced by the fact that, nearly twenty years earlier,
when economic conditions were altogether different, a

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

513

Argument for the United States.

bare majority of this Court concluded that a statute with
wholly different objectives was not within the federal
commerce power.
The provisions of the Code are supported also on an
independent ground: they are in one aspect part of a
comprehensive effort by Congress to remedy the breakdown of interstate commerce which culminated in 1933.
In this view, practices which contribute to a sharp declife
in wages, prices and employment, contribute to a frustration of commerce among the States and are subject to
federal regulation in the interest of protecting and promoting that commerce. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
UnitedStates, 284 U. S. 248, 260; Appalachian Coals, Inc.
v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 372.
Congress alone could deal effectively with the causes
contributing to the breakdown of interstate commerce.
Nor could the situation have been met by separate action
of the States. It wouldhave been impossible to obtain
prompt and uniform action by the individual state legislatures; and applied to interstate commerce, their legislation would be invalid. Baldvin v. Seelig, Inc., 294
U. S. 511.
It was not intended that the Constitution should substitute for the barriers of the States the chaos of uncontrollable excesses of competition affecting commerce
among the States. The solution which the framers of
the Constitution provided was the regulatory power of
the Federal Government. That power was meant to be
exercised over " the commerce which concerns more States
than one." Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398;
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 194. Congress must have
power to deal with activities and practices which, because of their widespread character and effect, contribute
substantially to the impairment of interstate commerce
as a whole.

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United' States.

295 U. S.

The contention is not that Congress may control any
form of activity which may conceivably to some degree
affect interstate commerce, or that an economic crisis
confers such power. The contention rests upon the facts.
The depressed state of the national economy made it
evident that interstate commerce was demoralized and
endangered by acts which under other conditions might
not seriously affect it. Because of this effect and this
danger, Congress could bring those acts within its regulatory power under the commerce clause. Wilson v. New,
243 U. S. 332, 348. This is but an application-to an unusually exigent situation of the now faniiliar principle
that the facts which call forth legislative measures may
be determinative of the validity of an exercise f legislative power. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 613;
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Walters, 294 U. S 405.
An additional basis on which the wage and hour provisions rest is that they are reasonable means for the prevention of labor disputes arising out of those subjects,
and so are adapted to protecting interstate commerce,
from the burdens caused by labor disturbances. Cf. In
re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443; American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City
Central Trades Council, 257 U. S. 184; Coronado Coal
Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295; Bedford Cut
Stone Co. v. Stone Cutters Assn., 274 U. S. 37; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. RailroadLabor Board, 261 U. S. 72, 79;
Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks,
281 U. S. 548, 565. The power to take preventive measures is as available as the power to provide remedies. See
Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, 520; Texas & New
Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548.
The Recovery Act and the provisions of the Code fully
satisfy the requirements of the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. No effort wa made by the petition-

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

515

Argument for the United States.

ers to sustain the burden of demonstrating that the Recovery Act is arbitrary, capricious, or unreasonable in its
provisions. The provisions of the Code are shown to bear
a substantial relation to the regulation of interstate commerce. Moreover, the restrictions imposed by the Code
embody the judgment of a substantial portion of the industry as to what is both necessary and reasonable.
The procedure followed in the adoption of the Code
fully satisfies the requirements of the Act and of due
process of law.
In Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, this
Court did not pass upon the validity of § 3 (a) of the
Recovery Act, but indicated that it presented a different
problem of delegation from that raised by § 9 (c).
Section 3 (a) of the-Recovery Act authorized the President to approve codes of "fair competition" after making
certain prescribed findings. The words "fair competition ". set the. primary standard for presidential action.
Fair competition-or the antithetical expression "unfair
methods of competition'"--has been used in the Federal
Trade Commission Act and in the Tariff Act of 1922 as a
basis for administrative and judicial action. Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304; Frischer
& Co. v. Elting, 60 F. (2d) 711, cert. den., 287 U. S. 649.
Under the' Recovery Act the President ig to be guided in
approving rules of fair competition by the codes submitted by representative groups in the industries affected.
There is authority for such a resort to business experience
and, judgment. St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. Co. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 286-287; Butte City Water Co. v.
Baker, 196 U: S. 119, 126-127; Erhardt$v. Boaro, 113
U. S. 527.
-It is not, of course, material that the rules of fair
competition submitted by industry and approved by the
President may be broader in scope than the",unfair

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

295 U. S.

methods of competition" condemned by this Court under
ihe Federal Trade Commission Act. The purpose of Congress in the Recovery Act clearly included the prohibition
of practices regarded by industry as unfair because of
their tendency to dstroy the price structure without economic justification. Moreover, the codes were clearly
intended to prohibit the practice now considered the most
harmful and unfair of all methods of competition-the
exploitation of employees through the cutting of wages
and lengthening of hours of labor. See §§ 1, 4 (b), and 7.
In determining whether a delegation of authority to the
Executive is a valid one, the question is not whether the
primary standard has the same meaning as in a prior
statute, but whether there is an adequate policy or standard prescribed for the Executive. The standard in the
Recovery Act would seem more definite than that in the
Federal Trade Commission Act.
Fair competition is given further meaning and substance by the requirement in § 3 (a) that the codes will
tend to effectuate the policy set forth in § 1 of the Act.
All of the policies there set forth point toward a single
goal-the rehabilitation of industry and the industrial
recovery which unquestionably was the major policy of
Congress in adopting the National Industrial Recovery
Act. The requirement that the President find that codes
of fair competition will tend to effectuate the policy there
laid down both (1) sets a limit upon his power to approve codes and (2) gives additional substance and meaning to the phrase "fair competition" by serving as a guidepost to what the codes of fair competition contemplated
by the Act were to include.
In many cases this Court has upheld standards no more
specific than "unfair competition," when giveA content
and meaning by other sections or by the general-purpose
of the statute in which they were used, e. g., New York

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

517

Argument for the United States.

Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287 U. S. 12
(public interest).
Other cases in which the use of general expressions as a
standard has been upheld are: Federal Radio Comm'n v.
Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 285 (public convenience,
interest or necessity); Avent v. United Stat~s, 266 U. S.
127, and United States v. Chemical Foundation,272 U. S.
1 (in the public interest); Colorado v. United States, 271
U. S. 153, 168, and Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United
States, 283 U. S. 34, 42 (certificates of public convenience
and necessity); Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States,
280 U. S. 420 (just and reasonable commissions); Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1 (in their discretion deem
expedient); Buttfield v. Stranahan,192 U. S. 470 (purity,
quality, and fitness for consumption); UnionBridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364 (unreasonable obstruction
to navigation); Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32 (undesirable
resident).
In many cases statutes containing grants of authority
expressed in permissive language have been upheld, although in all of them the objection could have been made
that the statute dic not compel the administrative agency
to act even after making findings or determining what was
necessary to comply with the standard established. See
United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506 ; InterstateCommerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194;
IntermountainRate Cases, 234 U. S. 476; First National
Bank v. Union Trust Co, 244 U. S. 416; -Avent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127- United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374;
New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287
U. S. 12.
In the case at bar the President is clearly to be guided
by the policies and standards found in the Act in determining whether to approve codes; and he can not approve
codes without making the findings required by Congress.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

295 U. S.

The precise degree of detail with which policies and
standards must be defined varies with the subject regulated. This Court will not permit the doctrine of delegation so to restrict the power .of Congress as to interfere
with its ability to legislate. The leading decisions reflect
the importance attributed to the necessity for the delegation. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Field v. Clark,
143 U. S. 649; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470;
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 386;
United States v. Grimdud, 220 U. S. 506; A vent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127, 130. See also Mutual Film Corp. v.
Ohio Industrial Comm'n, 236 U. S. 230, 245; MahIer v.
Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 40; United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 12; Hampton & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 394. The delegation in the Recovery Act would
have been necessary in normal times because of the need
for a flexible procedure which could have differentiated
between industries; it was especially necessary in view of
the emergency confronting Congress at that .time, requiring immediate action in many fields. In the words of the
-Court, "Without capacity to give authorizations of that
sort we should have the anomaly of a legislative power
which in many circumstances calling for its exertion would
be but a futility." Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293
U. S. 388, 421.
In other sections of the Recovery Act, Congress has
clearly manifested its intention that the codes contain
maximum hour and minimum wage provisions. §§ 7 (a),
7 (c), 4 (b). Since the policy of Congress as to the
inclusion of such provisions is clearly expressed, the remaining question is what the maximum hours and minimum wages should be for each class of employment in
each industry. The President is to determine these
amounts in accordance with the limitations established
by the Act. The determination of these amounts would
seem clearly to be a matter of administrative detail

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

519

Opinion of the Court.

Section 3 (a) of the Recovery Act requires the President
to make certain findings of fact as a condition of his approval of codes. In approving the live poultry code,
the President made the findings required.
The phrase "in or affecting interstate commerce" does
not render § 3 (f) invalid for indefiniteness, since these
words have been given meaning by judicial decision and,
if any uncertainty as to their meaning exists, it arises
from the nature of the constitutional limitations upon
federal power. Such language, commonly used, as for
example in the Sherman Act, has never been deemed to
render a statute invalid for indefiniteness.
[The several remaining specifications of error weralso argued briefly.]
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGIHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Petitioners in No. 854 were convicted in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
New York on eighteen counts of an indictment charging
violations of what is known as the "Live Poultry Code,"'
and on an additional count for conspiracy to commit such
violations.2 By demurrer to the indictment and appropriate motions on the trial, the defendants contended (1)
that the Code had been adopted pursuant to an unconstitutional delegation by Congress of legislative power;
(2) that it attempted to regulate intrastate transactions
which lay outside the authority of Congress; and (3) that
in certain provisions it was repugna.nt to the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment.
'The full title of the Code is "Code of Fair Competition for the
Live Poultry Industry of the Metropolitan Area in and about the
City of New York."
The indictment contained 60 counts, of which 27 counts were dismissed by the trial court, and on 14 counts the defendants were
acquitted.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the conviction
on the conspiracy count and on sixteen counts for violation of the Code, but reversed the conviction on two
counts which charged violation of requirements as to
minimum wages and maximum hours of labor, as these
were not deemed to be within the congressional power of
regulation. On the respective applications of the defendants (No. 854) and of the Government (No. 864) this
Court granted writs of certiorari, April 15, 1935.
New York City is the largest live-poultry market in
the United States. Ninety-six per cent. of the live poultry there marketed comes from other States. Threefourths of this amount arrives by rail and is consigned
to commission men or receivers. Most of these freight
shipments (about 75 per cent.) come in at the Manhattan
Terminal of the New York Central Railroad, and the
remainder at one of the four terminals in New Jersey
serving New York City. The commission men transact
by far the greater part of the business on a commission
basis, representing the shippers as agents, and remitting
to them the proceeds of sale, less commissions, freight
and handling charges. Otherwise, they buy for their own
account. They sell to slaughterhouse operators who are
also called market-men.
The defendants are slaughterhouse operators of the latter class. A. L. A. Schechter Poultry Corporation and
Schechter Live Poultry Market are corporations conducting wholesale poultry slaughterhouse markets in Brooklyn, New York City. Joseph Schechter operated the latter corporation and also guaranteed the credits of the
former corporation which was operated by Martin, Alex
and Aaron Schechter. Defendants ordinarily purchase
their live poultry from commission men at the West
Washington Market in New York City or at the railroad
terminals serving the City, but occasionally they purchase
from commission men in Philadelphia. They buy the

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

521

Opinion of the Court.

poultry for slaughter and resale. After the poultry is
trucked to their slaughterhouse markets in Brooklyn, it
is there sold, usually within twenty-four hours, to retail
poultry dealers and butchers who sell directly to consumers. The poultry purchased from defendants is immediately slaughtered, prior to delivery, by shochtim in defendants' employ. Defendants do not sell poultry in interstate
commerce.
The "Live Poultry Code" was promulgated under § 3
of the National Industrial Recovery Act.3 That sectionthe pertinent provisions of which are set forth in the
margin -- authorizes the President to approve "codes of
'Act of June 16, 1933, c. 90, 48 Stat. 195i 196; 15 U. S. C. 703.
"' CDEs or FAIR ComrPEITION.
"Sec. 3. (a) Upon the application to the President by one or
more trade or industrial associations or groups, the President may
approve a code or codes of fair competition for the trade or industry or subdivision thereof, represented by the applicant or applicants, if the President finds (1) that such associations or groups
impose no inequitable restrictions on admission to membership
therein and are truly representative of such trades or industries or
subdivisions thereof, and (2) that such code or codes are not designed
to promote monopolies or to eliminate or oppress small enterprises
and will n6t operate to discriminate against them, and will tend to
effectuate the policy of this title: Provided, That such code or codes
shall not permit monopolies or monopolistic practices: Provided
further, That where such code or codes affect the services and welfare of persons engaged in other steps of the economic process,
nothing in this section shall deprive such persons of the right to be
heard prior to approval by the President of such code or codes.
The President may, as a condition of his approval of any such. code,
impose such conditions (including requirements for the making of
reports and the keeping of accounts) for the protection of consumers, competitors, employees, and others, and in furtherance of
the public interest, and may provide such exceptions to and exemptions from the provisions of such code, as the President in his discretion deems necessary to effectuate the policy herein declared.
"(b) After the President shall have approved any such code, the
provisions of such code shall be the standards of fair competition for

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

fair competition." Such a code may be approved for a
trade or industry, upon application by one or more trade
or industrial associations or groups, if the President finds
(1) that such associations or groups "impose no inequitable restrictions on admission to- -membershiptherein and
are truly representative," and (2) that such codes are
not designed "to promote monopolies or to 'eliminate or
oppress small enterprises and will not operate to discrimisuch trade or industry or subdivision thereof. Any violation of such
standards in any transaction in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce shall be deemed an unfair method of competition in commerce within, the meaning of the Federal Trade Commission Act, as
amended; but -nothing in this title shall be construed to impair the
powers of the Federal Trade Commission under such Act, as
amended.
"(c) The several district courts of, the United States are hereby
invested with jurisdiction to'prevent and restrain violations of any
code of fair competition approved ufider this title; and it shall be
the duty of the several district attorneys of the United States,. in
their respective districts, under the direction of the Attorney General, to institute proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such
violations.
"(d) Upon his own motion, or if complaint is made to the President that abuses inimical to the public interest and contrary to the
policy herein declared are prevalent in any trade or industry or'subdivision thereof, and if no code of fair competition therefor "has
theretofore been approved by' the President, the President, after
such public notice and hearing as he shall -specify, may prescribe and
approve a code of fair competition for such trade or industry or subdivision thereof, which shall have the same effect as a code of fair
competition approved by'the President -under subsection (a), of this
section.
"(f) When a code of fair competition has been'approved or prescribed by the President under this title, any violation of any provision thereof in any transaction in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce shall be a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof an
offender shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense, and
each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense,"

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

523

Opinion of the Court.

nate against them, and will tend to effectuate the policy"
of Title I of the Act. Such codes "shall not -permit
monopolies or monopolistic practices." As a cormdition of
his approval, the President may "impose such conditions
(including requirements for the making of reports and
the keeping of accounts) for the protection of consumers,
competitors, employees, and others, and in furtherande of
the public interest, gnd may provide such exceptions to
and exemptions from the provisions of such code as the
President in his discretion deems necessary to effectuate
the policy herein declared." Where such a code has not
been approved, the President may prescribe one, either
on his own motion or on. complaint. Violation of any
provision of a code (so approved or prescribed) "in any
transaction in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce" is made a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than $500 foi each offense, and each day' the
violation continues is to be deemed a separate offense.
The "Live Poultry Code" was approved by the President on April 13, 1934. Its divisions indicate its nature
and scope. The Code has eight articles entitled (1) purposes, (2) definitions, (3) hours, (4) wages, (5) general
labor provisions, (6) administration, (7) trade practice
provisions, and (8) general.
The declared purpose is "To effect the policies of title I
of the National Industrial Recovery Act." The Code is
established as, "a code of fair competition for the live
poultry industry of the metropolitan area in and about
the City of New York." That area is described as embracing the five boroughs of New York City, the counties
of- Rockland, Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk in the
State of New Y6rk, the counties of Hudson and Bergen
in the State of New Jersey, and the county of Fairfield
in the State of Connecticut.
The "industry" is, defined as including "ei ery person engaged in the business of selling, purchasing for re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

sale, transporting, or handling and/or slaughtering live
poultry, from the time such poultry comes into the New
York metropolitan area to the time it is first sold in
slaughtered form," and such "related branches" as may
from time to time be included by amendment. Employers are styled "members of the industry," and the
term employee is defined to embrace "any and all persons engaged in the industry, however compensated," except "members."
The Code fixes the number of hours for work-days. It
provides that no employee, with certain exceptions, shall
be permitted to work in excess of forty (40) hours in any
one week, and that no employee, save as stated, "shall
be paid in any pay period less than at the rate of fifty
(50) cents per hour." The article containing "general
labor provisions" prohibits the employment of any person under sixteen years of age, and declares that
employees shall have the right of "collective bargaining,"
and freedom of choice with respect to labor organizations,
in the terms of § 7 (a) of the Act. The minimum number
of employees, who shall be employed by slaughterhouse
operators, is fixed, the number being graduated according
to the average volume of weekly sales.
Provision ig made for administration through an "industry advisory committee," to be selected by trade associations and members of the industry, and a "code supervisor" to be appointed, with the approval of the committee, by agreement between the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Administrator for Industrial Recovery. The expenses
of administration are to be borne by the members of the
industry proportionately upon the basis of volume of business, or such other factors as the advisory committee may
deem equitable, "subject to the disapproval of the Secretary and/or Administrator."
The seventh article, containing "trade practice provisions," prohibits various practices which are said to consti-

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

525

Opinion of the Court.

tute "unfair methods of competition." The final article
provides for verified reports, such as the Secretary or
Administrator may require, "(1) for the protection of consumers, competitors, employees, and others, and in
furtherance of the public interest, and (2) for the determination by the Secretary or Administrator of the extent
to which the declared policy of the act is being effectuated
by this code." The members of the industry are also
required to keep books and records which "will clearly
reflect all financial transactions of their respective businesses and the financial condition thereof," and to submit
weekly reports showing the range of daily prices and volume of sales" for each kind of produce.
The President approved the Code by an executive order
in which he found that the application for his approval
had been duly made in accordance with the provisions of
Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act, that
there had been due notice and hearings, that the Code
constituted "a, code of fair competition" as contemplated
by the Act and complied with its pertinent provisions including clauses (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of § 3 of
Title I; and that the Code would tend "to effectuate the
policy of Congress as declared in section 1 of Title I."'
'The Executive Order is as follows:
"ExEcuTvE ORDER.

"Approval of Code of Fair Competition for the' Live Poultiy
Industry of the Metropolitan Area in and about the City of New

York.
"Whereas, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator of
the National.Industrial Recovery Act having rendered their separate
reports and recommendations and findings on the provisions of said
code, coming within their respective jurisdictions, as set forth in the
Executive Order No. 6182 of June 26, 1933, as supplemented by.
Executive Order No. 6207 of July 21, 1933, and Executive Order No.
6345 of October 20, 1933, as amended by Executive Order No. 6551
of January 8, 1934;

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The executive order also recited that the Secretary of Agriculture and 'the Administrator of the National Industrial Recovery Act had rendered separate reports as to the
provisions within their respective jurisdictions. The Secretary of Agriculture repbrted that the provisions of the
Code "establishing standards of fair competition (a) are
regulations of transactions in 'or affecting the current of
interstate and/or foreign commerce and (b) are reason"Now, therefore, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the Unitect
States, pursuant to the authority vested in me by title I of the
National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and
otherwise, do hereby find that:
1. An application has been duly made, pursuant to and in full
compliance with the provisions of title I of the National Industrial
Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, for my approval of a code
of fair competition for the live poultry industry in the metropolitan
area in and about the City of New York; and
"2. Due notice and opportunity bor hearings to interested parties
have been given pursuant to the provisions of the act and regulations thereunder; and,
"3. Hearings have been held upon said code, pursuant to such
notice and pursuant to the pertinent provisions of the act and regulations thereunder; and
"4. Said code of fair competition constitutes a code of- fair competition, as contemplated by the act and complies in all- respects
with the pertinent provisions of the act, including clauses (1) and
(2) of subsection (a) of section 3 of title I of the act; and
"5. It appears, after-due consideration, that said code of fair competition will tend to effectuate the policy of Congress as declared in
section 1 of title I of the act.
'Now, therefore, I, Franldin D. Roosevelt, President of the
United States, pursuant to the authority vested in me by title I of
the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and
otherwise, do hereby approve said Code of Fair Competition for the
Live Poultry Industry in the Metropolitan Area in and about the
City of New York.
"FRAxN

"The White House,
April 13, 1934.'

N D. RoosEnLT,

"President of the United States'

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

527

Opinion of the Court.

able," and also that the Code would tend to effectuate the
policy declared in Title I of the Act, as set forth in § 1.
The report of the Administrator for Industrial Recovery
dealt with wages, hours of labor and other labor
provisions.
Of the eighteen counts of the indictment upon which
the defendants were convicted, aside from the count for
conspiracy, two counts charged violation of the minimum
wage and maximum hour provisions of the Code, and
ten counts were for violation of the requirement (found in
the "trade practice provisions ") of "straight killing."
This requirement was really one of "straight" selling.
The term "straight killing" was defined in the Code as
"the practice of requiring persons purchasing poultry for
resale to accept the run of any half coop, coop, or coops,
as purchased by slaughterhouse operators, except for
culls." I The charges in the ten counts, respectively, were
'The Administrator for Industrial Recovery stated in his report
that the Code had been sponsored by trade associations representing about 350 wholesale firms, 150 retail shops, and 21 commission
agencies; that these associations represented about 90 per cent. of
the live poultry industry by numbers and volume of business; and'
that the industry as defined in the Code 'supplied the consuming
public with practically all the live poultry coming into the metropolitan area from forty-one States and transacted an aggregate
annual business of approximately ninety million dollars. He further
said that about 1610 employees were engaged in the industry; that
it had suffered severely on account of the prevailing economic conditions and because of unfair methods of competition and the abuses
that had developed as a result of the "uncontrolled methods of
doing business "; and that these conditions had reduced the number
of employees by approximately 40 per cent. He added that the
report of the Research and Planning Division indicated that the
Code would bring about an increase in wages of about 20 per cent.
in this industry and an increase in employment of 19.2 per cent.
'The prohibition in the Code (Art. VII, § "14) was as follows:
"Straight Killing.-The use, in the wholesale slaughtering of poultry,
of any method of slaughtering other than 'straight killing ' or killing

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

that the defendants in selling to retail dealers and butchers
had permitted "selections of individual chickens taken
from particular coops and half coops."
Of the other six counts, one charged the sale to a butcher
of an unfit chicken; two counts charged the making of
sales without having the poultry inspected or approved in
accordance with regulations or ordinances of the City of
New York; two counts charged the making of false reports or the failure to make reports relating to the range
of daily prices and volume of sales. for certain periods;
and the remaining count was for sales to slaughterers or
dealers who were without licenses required by the ordinances and regulations of the city of New York.
First. Two preliminary points are stressed by the Government with respect to the appropriate approach to the
important questions presented. We are told that the
provision of the statute authorizing the adoption of codes
must be viewed in the light of the grave national crisis with
which Congress was confronted. Undoubtedly, the conditions to which power is addressed are always to be considered when the exercise of power is challenged. Extraordinary conditions may call for extraordinary remedies.
But the argument necessarily stops short of an attermp.t
to justify acti6n which lies outside the sphere of constitutional authority. Extraordinary conditions do not create
or enlarge constitutional power.8 The Constitution
established a national government with powers deemed
to be adequate, as they have proved to be both in war
and peace, but these powers of the national government
are limited by the constitutional grants. Those who act
under these grants are not at liberty to transcend the
on the basis of official grade. Purchasers may, however, make selection of a half coop, coop, or coops, but shall not have the right to
make any selection of particular birds."
"See Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 120, 121; Home Building &
Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S.398, 426.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

529

Opinion of the Court.

imposed limits because they believe that more or different
power is necessary., Such assertions of extra-constitu-.
tional authority were antj~ipated and precluded by the
explicit terms of the Tenth Amendment,-" The powers
not delegated to the United, States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the Stateg, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people."
The further point is urged that the national crisis demanded a broad and intensive coeperative effort by those
engaged in trade and industry, and that this necessary
coperation was sought to be fostered by permitting them
to initiate the adoption of codes. But the statutory plan
is not simply one for voluntary effort. It does not seek
merely to endow voluntary trade or industrial associations
or groups with privileges or immunities. It involves the
coercive exercise of the law-making power. The codes of
fair competition which the statute attempts to authorize
are codes of laws. If valid, they place all persons within
their reach under the obligation of positive law, binding
equally those who assent and those who do not assent.
Violations of the provisions of the codes are punishable as
crimes.
Second. The question of the delegation of legislative
power. We recently had occasion to review the pertinent
decisions and the general principles which govern the determination of this question. Panama Refining Co. v.
Ryan, 293 U. S. 388. The Constitution provides that
"All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a
Art I, § 1.
Senate and House of Representatives."
And the Congress is authorized "To make all laws which
shall-be necessary and proper for carrying into execution "
its general powers. Art. I, § 8, par. 18. The Congress
is not permitted to abdicate or to transfer to others the
essential legislative functions with which it is ihus vested.
We have repeatedly recognized the necessity of .adapting

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion qf the Court.

295 U. S.

legislation to complex conditions involving a host of detail&with which the national legislature cannot deal di-rectly. We pointed out in the Panama Company case
that the Constitution has never been regarded as denying
to Congress the necessary resources of flexibility and
practicality, which will enable it to perform its function
in laying down policies and establishing standards, while
leaving to selected instrumentalities the making of subordinate rules within prescribed limits and the determination of facts to which the policy as declared by the legislature is to apply. But we said that the constant recognition of the necessity and validity of such provisions,
and the wide range of administrative authority which has
been developed, by means of them, cannot be allowed
to obscure the limitations of the authority to delegate, if our constitutional system is to be maintained.
Id., p. 421.
Accordingly, we look to the statute to see whether Congress has overstepped these limitations,--whether Congress in authorizing "codes of fair competition" has itself established the standards of legal obligation, thus
performing its essential legislative function, or, by the
failure to enact such standards, has attempted to transfer
that function to others
The aspect in which the question is now presented is
distinct from that which was before us in the case of the
Panama Company. There, the subject of the statutory
prohibition was defined. National Industrial Recovery
Act, § 9 (c). Thatsubjbct was the transportation in interstate and foreign commerce of petroleum and petroleum
products which are produced or withdrawn from storage
in excess of the amount permitted by state authority.
The question was with respect to the range of discretion
given to the President in prohibiting that transportation.
Id., pp. 414, 415, 430. As to the "codes of fair competition," under § 3 of the Act, the question'is more fupda-

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITD STATES.
495

mental.

531

Opinion of the Court.

It is whether there is any adequate definition

of the subject to which the codes are to be addressed.
What is meant by "fair competition" as the term is
used in the Act? Does it refer to a category established
in the law, and is the authority to make codes limited
accordingly? Or is it used as a convenient designation for
whatever set of laws the formulators of a code for a particular trade or industry may propose and the President
may- approve (subject to certain restrictions), or the

President may himself prescribe, as being wise and beneficent provisions for the government of the trade or
industry in order to -accomplish the broad purposes of
rehabilitation, correction and expansion which are stated
in the first section of Title I? 9
The Act- does not define "fair 'competition." "Unfair
competition," as known to the common law, is a limited
concept. Primarily, and strictly, it relates to the palming
off of one's goods as those of a rival trader: Goodyear
ManufacturingCo. v. GoodyearRubber'Co., 128 U. S. 598,
' That. section, under the heading "Declaration of Policy," is' as
follows: "Section 1. A national emergenay productive of widespread
unemployment and disorganization of industry, which burdens interstate and foreign commerce, affects the public welfare, and undermines the standards of living of the American people, is hereby
declared to exist. It is hereby declared to be the policy of Congress
to remove obstructions to the free flow of interstate and foreign commerce which tend to diminish the amount thereof; and to provide
for the general welfare by promoting the organization of industry
for the purpose of cooperative action among trade groups, to induce
and maintain united action of labor and management under adequate
governmental sanctions and supervision, to eliminate unfair competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible utilization of the present
productive capacity of industries, to avoid undue restriction of production (except as may be temporarily required), to increase the
consumption of industrial and agricultural products by increasin
purchasing power, to reduce and relieve unemployment, to improve
standards of labor, and otherwise to rehabilitate industry and to conserve natural resourceB,"

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

604; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198
U. S. 118, 140; Hanover Milling Co. v.-Metcalf, 240 U. S.
403, 413. In recent years, its scope has been extended.
It has been held to apply to misappropriation as well as
misrepresentation, to the selling of another's goods as one's
own,---to -misappropriation of what equitably belongs to
a competitor. International News Service v. Associated
Press, 248 U. S. 215, 241, 242. Unfairness in competition
has been predicated of acts which lie outside the ordinary
course of business and are tainted by fraud, or coercion, or
conduct otherwise prohibited by law.' ° Id., p. 258. But
it is evident that in its widest range, " unfair competition," as it has been understood in the law, does not reach
the objectives of the codes which are authorized by the
National Industrial Recovery Act. The codes may, indeed, cover conduct which existing law condemns, but they
are not limited to conduct of that sort. The Government
does not contend that the Act contemplates such a limitation. It would be opposed both to the declared purposes of the Act and to its administrative construction.
The Federal Trade Commission Act (§ 5) 11 introduced
the expression " u n fair methods of competition," which
were declared to be unlawful. That was an expression
new in the law. Debate apparently convinced the sponsors of the legislation that the words "unfair competition," in the light of their meaning at common law, were
too narrow. We have said that the substituted phrase
has a broader meaning, that it does not admit of precise
definition, its scope being left to judicial determination
as controversies arise. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 648, 649; Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304, 310-312. What are
"See cases collected in Nims on Unfair Competition and TradeMarks, Chap. I, § 4, p. 19, and Chap. XIX.
Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717, 719, 720.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

533

Opinion of the Court.

"unfair methods of competition" are thus to be determined in particular instances, upon evidence, in the light
of particular competitive conditions and of what is found
to be a specific and substantial public interest. Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441,
403; Federal Trade Comn'n v. Klesner, 280 U. S 19, 27,
28; Federal Trade Comm'?n v. Raladam Co., supra; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro., supra; Federal
Trade ,Comm'n v. AIgoma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67, 73.
To make this possible, Congress set up a special procedure.
A Commission, a quasi-judicial body, was created. Pro,
vision was made for formal complaint, for notice and
hearing, for appropriate findings of fact supported by
adequate evidence, and for judicial review to give assurance that the action, of the Commission is taken within
its statutory authority. Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Raladam Co., supra; Federal Trade Comm'n.v. Klesner,
2

supra.

In providing for codes, the National Industrial Recovery Act dispenses with this administrative procedure
and with any administrative procedure of an analogous
character. - But the difference between the code plan of
the Recovery Act and the scheme of the Federal Trade
Commission Act lies not only in procedure but in subject
1t

The Tariff Act of 1930 (§ 337, 46 Stat. 703), like the Tariff

Act of 1922 (§ 316, 42 Stat. 943), employs the expressions "unfair
methods of competition" and "unfair acts" in the importation of
articles into the United States, and in their sale, " the effect or
tendency of which is to destroy or substantially injure an industry,
efficiently and economically operated, in the United States, or to
prevent the establishment of such an industry, or to restrain or
monopolize trade and commerce in the United States." Provision
is made for investigation and findings by the Tariff Commission, for

appeals upon questions of law to the United States Court of Customs
and Patent Appels, and for ultimate action by the President when
the existence of any "such unfair method' or act" is established to
his satisfaction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

matter. We cannot regard the "fair competition" of
the codes as antithetical to the "unfair methods of competition" of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The
"fair competition of the codes has a much broader range
and a new significance. The Recovery Act provides that it
shall not be construed to impair the powers of the Federal
Trade Commission, but, when a code is approved, its
provisions are to be the " standards of fair competition"
for the trade or industry concerned, and any violation of
such standards in any transaction in or affecting interstate
or foreign commerce is to be deemed "an unfair method
of competition" within the meaning of the Federal Trade
Commission Act. § 3 (b).
For a statement of the authorized objectives and content of the "codes of fair competition" we are referred
repeatedly to the "Declaration of Policy" in section one
of Title I of the Recovery Act. Thus, the approval of a
code by the President is conditioned on his finding that
it " will tend to effectuate the policy of this titie."
§ 3 (a). The President is authorized to impose such
conditions "for the protection of consumers, competitors,
employees, and others, and in furtherance of the public
interest, and may provide such exceptions to and exemptions from the provisions of such code as the President
in his discretion deems necessary to effectuate the policy
herein declared." Id. The "policy herein declared" is
manifestly that set forth in section one. That declaration embraces a broad range of objectives. Among them
we find the elimination of "unfair competitive practices."
But even if this clause were to be taken to relate to practicps which fall under the ban of existing law, either common law or statute, it is still only one of the authorized
aims described in section one. It is there declared to be
"the policy of Congress '"to remove obstructions to the free flow of interstate
and foreign commerce which tend to diminish the amount

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

535

Opinion of the Court.

thereof; and to provide for the general welfare by pro
moting the organization of industry for the purpose of
co~perative action among trade groups, to induce and
maintain united action -of -labor and management under
adequate governmental sanctions and supervision, to eliminate unfair competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible utilization of the present productive capacity
of industries, to avoid undue restriction of production
(except as may be temporarily required), to increase the
consumption of industrial and agricultural products by
increasing purchasing power, to reduce and relieVe unemployment, to improve standards of labor; and otherwise to
rehabilitate industry and to conserve natural resources." "
Under- § 3, whatever "may tend to effectuate" these
general purposes may be included in the "codes of fair
competition." We think the conclusion is inescapable
that the authority sought to be conferred by § 3 was not
merely to deal with "unfair competitive practices" which
offend against existing law,. and could be the subject of
judicial condemnation without further legislation, or ,to
create administrative machinery for the application of
established principles of law to particular instances of
violation. -Rather, the purpose is clearly disclosed to authorize new and controlling prohibitions through codes
of laws which would embrace what the formulators would.
propose, and what the President would approve, or prescribe, as wise and beneficient measures for the government of trades and industries in order to bring about their
rehabilitation, correction and development, according to
the general declaration of policy in section one. Codes
of laws of this sort are styled "codes of fair competition."
W6 find no real controversy upon this point and we
must determine the validity of the Code in question in
this aspect. As the Government candidly says in its
" See Note 9.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

brief: "The words 'policy of this title' clearly refer to
the 'policy' which Congress declared in the section entitled 'Declaration of Policy '-§ 1. All of the policies
there set forth point toward a single goal-the rehabilitation of industry and the industrial recovery which unquestionably was the major policy of Congress in adopting the National Industrial Recovery Act." And that
this is the controlling purpose of the Code now before us
appears both from its repeated declarations to that effect
and from the scope of its requirements. It will be observed that its provisions as to the hours and wages of
employees and its " general labor provisions '? were placed
in separate articles, and these were not included in the
article on "trade practice provisions" declaring what
should be deemed to constitute "unfair methods of competition." The Secretary of Agriculture thus stated the
objectives of the Live Poultry Code in his report to the
President, which was recited in the executive order of approval:
"That said code will tend to effectuate the declared
policy of title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act
-as et forth in section 1 of said act in -that the terms and
provisions of such code tend to: (a) Remove obstructions
to the free flow of interstate and foreign commerce which
tend to diminish the amount thereof; (b) to provide for
the general welfare by promoting the organization of in4dustry for the purpose of coSperative action among trade
,'groups; (c) to eliminate unfair competitive practices; (d)
to promote the fullest possible utilization of the present
productive capacity of industries; (e) to avoid undue restriction of production (except as may be temporarily required); (f) to increase the consumption of industrial
and agricultural products by increasing purchasing power;
and (g) otherwise to rehabilitate industry and to conserve natural resources."

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STA4ES.
495

537

Opinion of the Court.

The Government urges that the codes will " consist of
rules of competition deemed fair for each industry by
representative members of that industry-by the persons
most vitally concerned and most familiar with its probz
lems." Instances.are cited in which Congress has availed
itself of such assistance; as e. g., in the exercise of its
authority over the public domain, with respect to the
recognition of local customs or rules of miners as to mining claims, 4 or, in matters of a more or less technical
nature, as in designating the standard height of drawbars."G But would it be seriously contended that Congress
could delegate its legislative authority to trade o industrial associations or groups so as to empower them to enact
the laws they deem to be wise and beneficent for the
rehabilitation and expansion of their trade or industries?
Could trade or industrial associations or groups be constituted legislative bodies for that purpose because such
associations or groups are familiar with the problems of
their enterprises? And, could an effort of that sort be
made valid by such a preface of generalities as to permissible aims as we find in section 1 of title I? The answer is
obvious. Such a delegation of legislative power is unknown to our law and is utterly inconsistent with the
constitutional prerogatives and duties of Congress.
The question, then, turns upon the authority which
§ 3 of the Recovery Act vests in the President to approve
or prescribe. If the codes have standing as penal statutes,
this must be due to the effect of the executive action.
But Congress cannot delegate legislative power to the
President to exercise an unfettered discretion to make
" Act of July 26, 1866, c. 262, 14 Stat. 251; Jackson v. Roby,
109 U. S. 440, 441; Erhardt v. Boaro, 113 U. S. 527, 535; Butte
City Water Co.v. Baker, 196 U. S. 119, 126.
'Act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531; St. Louis, I. M. &
So. Ry. Cv. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 286.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

whatever laws he thinks may be needed or advisable for
the rehabilitation and expansion of trade or industry. See
Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, supra, and cases there
reviewed.
Accordingly we turn to the Recovery Act to ascertain
what limits have been set to the exercise of the President's discretion. First, the President, as a condition of
approval, is required to find that the trade or industrial
associations or groups which propose a code, "impose
no inequitable restrictions on admission to membership"
and are "truly representative." That condition, however, relates only to the status of the initiators of the new
laws and not to the permissible scope of such laws. Second, the President is required to find that the code is not
"designed to promote monopolies or to efiminate or oppress small enterprises and will not operate to discriminate against them." And, to this is added q proviso that
the code "shall not permit monopolies or monopolistic
practices." But these restrictions leave virtually untouched the field of policy envisaged by section one, and,
in that wide field of legislative possibilities, the proponents of a code, refraining from monopolistic designs, may
roam at will and the President may approve or disapprove
their proposals as he may see fit. That is the precise effect
of the further finding that the President is to makethat the code "will tend to effectuate the policy of this
title." While this is called a finding, it is really but a
statement of an opinion as to the general effect upon the
promotion of trade or industry of a scheme of laws. These
are the only findings which Congress has made essential
in order to put into operation a legislative code having
the aims described in the "Declaration of Policy."
Nor is the breadth of the President's discretion left to
the necessary implications of this limited requirement as
to his findings. As already noted, the President in approving a code may impose his own conditions, adding to

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

539

Opinion of the Court.

or taking from what is proposed, as "in his discretion"
.he thinks necessary "to effectuate the policy" declared
by the Act. Of course, he has no less liberty when he
prescribes a code on his own motion or on complaint, and
he is free to prescribe one if a code has not been approved.
The Act provides for the creation by the President of
administrative agencies to assist him, but the action or
relorts of such agencies, or of his other assistants,--their
recommendations and findings in relation to the making
of codes-have no sanction beyond the ,wil of the President, who may accept, modify or reject them as he pleases.
Such recommendations or findings in no way limit the
authority, which § 3 undertakes to vest in the President
with no other conditions than those there specified. And
this authority relates to a host of different trades and industries, thus extending the President's discretion to all
the varieties of laws which he may deem to be beneficial
in dealing with the vast array of commercial and industrial activities throughout the country.
Such a sweeping delegation of legislative power tincs
no support in the decisions upon which the Government
especially relies. By the Interstate Commerce Act, Congress has itself provided a code of laws regulating the
*activities of the common carriers subject to the Act, in
order to assure the performance of their services upon just
and reasonable terms, with adequate facilities and without unjust discrimination. Congress from time to time
has elaborated its requirements, as needs have been disclosed. To facilitate the application of the standards
prescribed by the Act, Congress his provided an expert
body. That administrative agency, in dealing with particular cases, is required to act upon notice and hearing,
and its orders must be supported by findings of fact
which in turn are sustained by evidence. InterstateCommerce Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227"U. S.
88; Floridav. United States, 282.U. S. 194; United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 293 U. S. 454. When the
Commission is authorized to issue, for the construction,
extension or abandonment of lines, a certificate of "public convenience and necessity," or to permit the acquisition by one carrier ot the control of another, if that is
found to be "in the public interest," we have pointed out
that these provisions are not left without standards to
guide determination. The authority conferred has direct
relation to the standards prescribed for the service of
common carriers and can be exercised only upon findings,
based upon evidence, with respect to particular conditions
of transportation. New York Central Securities Co v.
United States, 287 U. S. 12, 24, 25; Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S.
266, 273; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United States,
283 U. S. 35, 42.
Similarly, we have held that the Radio Act of 1927
established standards to govern radio communications
and, in view of the limited number of available broadcasting frequencies, Congress authorized allocation ana
licenses. The Federal Radio Commission was created
as the licensing authority, in order to secure a reasonable
equality of opportunity in radio transmission and reception. The authority of the Commission to grant licenses
"as public convenience, interest or necessity requires"
was limited by the nature of radio communications, and
by the scope, character and quality of the services to be
rendered and the relative advantages to be derived
through distribution of facilities. These standards established by Congress were to be enforced upon hearing, and
evidence, by an administrative body acting under statutory restrictions adapted to the particular activity.
Federal Radio Comm'n v. Nelson Brothers Co.. 289
U. S.266.
" Act of February 23, 1927, c. 169, 44 Stat. 1162, as amended by

the Act of March 28, 1928, c. 263, 45 Stat. 373.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

541

Opinion of the Court.

In Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394, the
question related to the "flexible tariff provision" of the
Tariff Act of 1922.' We held that Congress had described
its plan "to secure by law the imposition of customs
duties on articles of imported merchandise which should
equal the difference between the cost of producing in a
foreign country the articles in question and laying them
down for sale in the United States, and the cost of producing and selling like or similar articles in the United
States." As the differences in cost might vary from time
to time, provision was made for the investigation and
determination of these differences by the executive branch
so as to make "the adjustments necessary to conform the
duties to the standard underlying that policy and plan."
Id., pp. 404, 405. The Court found the same principle to
be applicable in fixing customs duties as that which permitted Congressto exercise its rate-making power in
interstate commerce, "by declaring the rule which shall
prevail in the legislative fixing of rates" and then remitting "the fixing of such rates" in accordance with its
provisions "to a rate-making body." Id., p. 409. The
Court fully recognized the limitations upon the delegation
of legislative power. Id., pp. 408-411.
To summarize and conclude upon this point: Section 3
of the Recovery Act is without precedent. It supplies no
standards for any trade, industry or activity. It does.not
undertake to prescribe rules of conduct to be applied to
particular states of fact determined by appropriate administrative procedure. Instead of prescribing rules of conduct, it authorizes the making of codes to prescribe them.
For that legislative undertaking, § 3 sets up no standards,
aside from the statement of the general aims of rehabilitation, correction and expansion described in section one.
In view of the scope of that broad declaration, and of the
"Act of September 21, 1922,, c. 356, Title JII, § 315, 42 Stat. 858,

941.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

nature of the few restrictions that are imposed, the discretion of the President in approving or prescribing codes,
and thus enacting laws for the government of trade and
industry throughout the country, is virtually unfettered.
We think that the code-making authority thus conferred
is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power.
Third. The question of the applicationof the provisions
of the Live Poultry Code to intrastate transactions. Although the validity of the codes (apart from the question
of delegation) rests upon the commerce clause of the
Constitution, § 3 (a) is not in terms limited to interstate
and foreign commerce. From the generality of its terms,
and from the argument of the Government at the bar, it
would appear that § 3 (a) was designed to authorize codes
without that limitation. But under § 3 (f) penalties are
confined to violations of a code provision "in any transaction in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce."
This aspect of the case presents the question whether the
particular provisions of the Live Poultry Code, which the
defendants were convicted for violating and for having
conspired to violate, were within the regulating power of
Congress.
These provisions relate to the hours and wages of those
employed by defendants in their slaughterhouses in Brooklyn and to the sales there made to retail dealers and
butchers.
(1) Were these transactions "in" interstate commerce' Much is made of the fact that almost all the
poultry coming to New York is sent there from other
States. But the code provisions, as here applied, do not
concern the transportation of the poultry from other
State? to New York, or the transactions of the commission men or others to whom it is consigned, or the sales
made by such consignees to defendants. When defendants had made their purchases, whether at the West
Washington Market in New York City or at the railroad

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

543

Opinion of the Court.

terminals serving the City, or elsewhere, the poultry was
trucked to their slaughterhouses in Brooklyn for local
disposition. The interstate transactions in relation to
that poultry then ended. Defendants held the poultry
at their slaughterhouse markets for slaughter and local
sale to retail dealers and butchers who in turn sold directly to consumers. Neither the slaughtering nor the
sales by defendants were transactions in interstate commerce. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 632, 633;
Public Utilities Comm'n v. Landon, 249'U. S. 236, 245;
Industrial-Associationv. United States, 268 U. S. 64, 78,
79; Atlantic Coast Line v. StandardOil Co., 275 U. S. 257,
267.
The undisputed facts thus afford no warrant for the
argument that the poultry handled by defendants at
their slaughterhouse markets was in a "current" or
"flow" of interstate commerce and was thus subject to
congressional regulation. The mere fact that there may
be a constant flow of commodities into a State does not
mean that the flow continues after the property has arrived and has become commingled with the mass of property within the State and is there held solely for local
disposition and use. So far as the poultry here in question is concerned, the flow in interstate commerce had
ceased. The poultry had come to a permanent rest within
the State. It was not held, used, or sold by defendants in
relation to any further transactions in interstate commerce and was not destined for transportation to other
States. Hence, decisions which deal 'with a stream of
interstate commerce-where goods come to rest within a
State temporarily and are later to go forward in interstate
commerce--and with the regulations of transactions involved in that practical continuity of movement, are not
applicable here. See Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 387, 388; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258
U. S. 50, 55; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.495, 519; Chi-

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

cago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 35; Tagg Bros.
& Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 439.
(2) Did the defendants' trabsactions directly "affect"
interstate commerce so as to be subject to federal regulation? The power of Congress extends not only to the
regulation of transactions which are part of interstate
commerce, but to the protection of that commerce from
injury. It matters not that the injury may be due to the
conduct of those engaged in intrastate operations. Thtxs,
Congress may protect the safety of those employed in interstate transportation "no matter what may be the
source of the dangers which threaten it." Southern Ry.
Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 27. We said in Second
Employers' LiabiZity Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51, that it is the
"effect upon interstate commerce," not "the source of
the injury," which is "the criterion of congressional
power." We have held that, in dealing with common carriers engaged in both interstate and intrastate commerce,
the dominant authority of Congress necessarily embraces
the right to control their intrastate operations in all matters having such a close and substantial relation to interstate traffic that the control is essential or appropriate to
secure the freedom of that traffic from interference or unjust discrimination and to promote the efficiency of the
interstate service. The Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342,
351, 352; Wisconsin Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 588. And combinations and conspiracies to restrain interstate commerce, or to monopolize
any part of it, are none the less within the reach of the
Anti-Trust Act because the conspirators seek to attain
their end by means of intrastate activities. Coronado
Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310;
Bedford Cut Stone Co. v. Stone Cutters Assn., 274 U. S.
37, 46.
We recently had occasion, in Local 167 v. United States,
291 U. S. 293, to apply this principle in connection with

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

545

Opinion of the Court.

the live poultry industry. That was a suit to enjoin a
conspiracy to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce in violatiQn of the Anti-Trust Act. It was shown
that marketmen, teamsters and slaughterers (shochtim)
had conspired to burden the free movement of live poultry
into the metropolitan area in and about New York City.
Marketmen had organized an association, had allocated
retailers among themselves, and had agreed to increase
prices. To-accomplish their objects, large amounts of
money were raised by levies upon poultry sold, men were
hired to obstruct the business of dealers who resisted,
wholesalers and retailers were spied upon and by violencc
and other forms of intimidation were prevented from
freely purchasing live poultry. Teamsters refused to
handle poultry for recalcitrant marketmen and members
of the shochtim union refused*to slaughter. In view of
the proof of that conspiracy, we said that it was unnecessary to decide when interstate commerce ended and when
intrastate commerce began. We found that the proved
interference by the conspirators "with the unloading, the
transportation, the sales by marketmen to retailers, the
prices charged and the amount of profits exacted" oper-ated "substantially and directly to restrain and burden
the untrammeled shipment and movement of the poultry" while unquestionably it was in ihiterstate commerce.
The intrastate acts of the conspirators were included in
the injunction because that was found to be necessary for
the protection of interstate commerce against the attempted and illegal restraint. Id., pp. 297, 299, 300.
The instant case is not of that sort. This is not a prosecution for a conspiracy to restrain or monopolize interstate commerce in violation of the Anti-Trust Act.
Defendants have been conyicted, not upon direct charges
of injury to interstate commerce or of interference with
persons engaged in that commerce, but of violations of
certain provisions of the Live Poultry Code and of con-

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

spiracy to commit these violations. Interstate commerce
is brought in only upon the charge that violations of these
provisions-as to hours and wages of employees and local
sales--" affected " interstate commerce.
In determining how far the federal government may
go in controlling intrastate transactions upon the ground
that they "affect" interstate commerce, there is a necessary and well-established distinction between direct and
indirect effects. The precise line can be drawn only as
individual cases arise, but the distinction is clear in principle. Direct effects are illustrated by the railroad cases
we have cited, as e. g., the effect of failure to use prescribed safety appliances on railroads which are the highways of both interstate and intrastate commerce, injury
to an employee engaged- in interstate transportation by
the negligence of an employee engaged in an intrastate
movement, the fixing of rates for intrastate transportation which unjustly discriminate against interstate commerce. But. where the effect of intrastate transactions
upon interstate commerce is merely indirect, such transactions remain within the domain of state power. If the
commerce clause were construed to reach all enterprises
and transactions which could be said to have an indirect
effect upon interstate commerce, the federal authority
would embrace practically all the activities of the people
and the authority of the State over its domestic concerns
would exist only by sufferance of the federal government.
Indeed, on such a theory, even the development of the
State's commercial facilities would be subject to federal
control. As we said in the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 410: "In the intimacy of commercial relations,
much that is done in the superintendence of local matters
may have an indirect bearing upon interstate commerce.
The development of local resouircds and the extension of
local -facilities may have a very important effect upon
communities less favored and to an appreciable degree

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

547

Opinion of the Court.

alter the course of trade. The freedom of local trade may
stimulate interstate commerce, while restrictive measures
within the police power of the State enacted exclusively
with respect to internal business, as distinguished from
interstate traffic, may in their reflex or indirect influence
diminish the latter and reduce the volume of articles transported into or out of the State." See, also, Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 21 ; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260
U. S.245, 259, 260.
The distinction between direct and indirect effects has
been clearly recognized in the application of the AntiTrust Act. Where a combination or conspiracy is formed,
with the intent to restrain interstate commerce or to
monopolize any part of it, the violation of the statute is
clear. Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workeis, 268
U. S.295, 310. But where that intent is absent, and the
objectives are limited to intrastate activities, the fact !hat
therermay be an indirect effect upon interstate commerce
does not subject the parties to the federal statute, not-withstanding its broad provisions. This principle has
frequently been applied in litigation growing out of labor
disputes. United Mine Workers. v. Coronado Coal Co..
259 U. S. 344, 410, 411; .United Leather Workers v.
flerkert & "Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U. S. 457, 464-467;
IndustrialAssociati n v. United States, 268 U. S. 64, 82;
Levering & GarriguesCo. v. Morrin, 289 U.. S. 103, 107,
108. In the case lase cited we quoted with approval the
*rule that had been stated and applied in Industrial Association v. United States, supra, after review of the decisions, as follows: "The alleged conspiracy and the acts
here complained of, spent their intended and direct force
upon a local situation,-- for building is as essentially local
as mining, manufacturing or growing crops,--and if, by a
resulting diminution of the commercial demand, interstate
- trade was curtailed either generally or in specific instances,
that wss a fortuitous consequence so remote and indirect

OCTOBER TERM, '1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

as plainly to cause it to fall outside the reach of the Sherman Act."
While these decisions related to the application of the
federal statute, and not to its constitutional validity, the
distinction between direct and indirect effects of intrakstate transactions upon interstate commerce must be
recognized as a fundamental one, essential to the maintenance of our constitutional system. Otherwise,, as we
have said, there would be virtually no limit to the federal
power and for all practical purposes we should have a
completely centralized government. We must consider
the provisions here in question in the light of this
distinction.
The question of chief iinportance relates to the provisions of the Code as to the hours and wages of those
employed in defendants' slaughterhouse markets. It is
plain that these requirements are imposed in order to
govern the details of defendants' management of 1heir
local business. The persons employed in slaughtering
and selling in local trade are not employed in interstate
commerce. Their hours and wages have no direct relation to interstate commerce. The question of how many
hours these employees should work and what they should
be paid differs in no essential respect from similar questions ifi other local businesses which handle Commodities
brought into a State and there dealt in as a part of its
internal commerce. This appears from an examination
of the considerations urged by the Government with respect to conditions in the poultry trade. Thus, the Gov-ernment argues that hours and wages affect. prices; that
slaughterhouse men sell at a small margin above operating
costs; that labor represents 50 to 60 per cent. of these
costs; that a slaughterhouse operator paying lower wages
or reducing his cost by exacting long hours of work, translates his saving into lower prices; that this results in demands for a cheaper grade of goods; and that the cutting

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

549

Opinion of the Court.

of prices brings about a demoralization of the price structure. Similar conditions may be adduced in relation to
other businesses. The argument of the Government
proves too much. If the federal government may determine the wages and hours of employees in the internal
commerce of a State, because of their relation to cost
and prices and their indirect effect upon interstate commerce, it would seem that a similar control might be
exerted over other elements of cost, also affecting prices,
such as the number of employees, rents, advertising,
methods of doing business, etc. All the processes of production and. distribution that enter into cost could likewise be controlled. If the cost of doing an intrastate
business is in itself the permitted object of federal control,
the extent of the regulation of cost would be a question
of discretion and not of power.
The Government also makes the point that efforts to
enact state legislation establishing high labor standards
have been impeded by the belief that unless similar action
is taken generally, commerce will be diverted from the
States adopting such standards, and that this fear of diversion has led to demands for federal legislation on the subject
of wages and hours. The apparent implication is that the
federal authority under the commerce clause should be
deemed to extend to the establishment of rules to govern
wages and hours in intrastate trade and industry generally throughout the dountry, thus overriding the authority of the States to deal with domestic problems arising
from labor conditions in their internal commerce.
It is not the province of the Court to consider the economic advantages or disadvantages of such a centralized
system. It is sufficient to say that the Federal Constitution does not provide for it. Our growth and development have called for wide use-of the commerce power of
the federal government in its control over the expanded
activities of interstate commerce, and in protecting that

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

commerce from burdens, interferences, and conspiracies to
restrain and monopolize it. But the authority of the federal government may not be pushed to such an extreme
as to destroy the distinction, which the commerce clause
itself establishes, between commerce "among the several
States" and the internal concerns of a State. The same
answer must be made to the contention that is based
upon the serious economic situation which led to the passage of the Recovery Act,-the fall in prices, the decline
in wages and employment, and the curtailment of the
market for commodities. Stress is laid upon the great importance of maintaining wage distributions which would
provide the necessary stimulus in starting "the cumulative forces making for expanding commercial activity."
Without in any way disparaging this motive, it is enough
to say that the recuperative efforts of the federal government must be made in a manner consistent with the authority granted by the Constitution.
We are of the opinion that the attempt through the provisions of the Code to fix the hours and wages of employees of defendants in their intrastate business was not
a valid exercise of federal power.
The other violations for which defendants were convicted related to the making of local sales. Ten counts,
for violation of the provision as to "straight killing,"
were for permitting customers to make "selections of individual chickens taken from particular coops and half
coops." Whether or not this practice is good or bad for
the local trade, its effect, if any, upon interstate commerce
was only indirect. The same may be said of violations of
the Code by intrastate transactions consisting of the sple
"of an unfit chicken" and of sales which were not in,
accord with the ordinances of the City of New York. The
requirement of reports as t6 prices and volumes of defendants' sales was incident to the effort to control their
intrastate business.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

551

CARDOZO, J., concurring.

In view of these conclusions, we find it unnecessary to
discuss other questions which have been raised as to the
validity of certain provisions of the Code under the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
On both the grounds we have discussed, the attempted
delegation of legislative power, and the attempted regulation of intrastate transactions which affect interstate commerce only indirectly, we hold the code provisions here in
question to be invalid and that the judgment of conviction
must be reversed.
No. 854-reversed.
No. 864--affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO,

concurring.

The delegated power of legislation which has found
expression in this code is not canalized within banks that
keep it from overflowing. It is uncorifined and vagrant,
if I may borrow my own words in an earlier opinion.
Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, 440.
This court has held that delegation may be unlawful
though the act to be performed is definite and single, if
the necessity, time and occasion of performance have been
left in the end to the discretion of the delegate. Panama
Refining Co. v. Ryan, supra. I thought that ruling went
too far. I pointed out in an opinion that there had been
"no grant to the Executive of any roving commission to
inquire into evils and then, upon' discovering them, do
anything he pleases." "293 U. S. at p. 435. Choice,
though within limits, had been given him "as to the occasion, but none whatever as to the means." Ibid. Here,
in the case before us, is an attempted delegation not confined to any single act nor to any class or group of acts
identified or described by reference to a standard. Here
in effect is a roving commission to inquire into evils and
upon discovery correct them.

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CAw>ozo, J., concurring.

295 U. S,

I have said that there is no standard, definite or even
approximate, to which legislation must conform. Let me
make my meaning more precise. If codes of fair competition are codes eliminating "unfair" methods of competition ascertained upon inquiry to prevail in one industry
or another, there is no unlawful delegation of legislative
functions when the President is directed to inquire into
such practices and denounce them when discovered. For
many years a like pover has been committed to the Federal Trade Commission with the approval of this court in
a long series of decisions. Cf. Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Keppel & Bro., 291 U. S. 304, 312; Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 648; Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421. Delegation in such circumstances is born of the necessities of the occasion. The
industries of the country are too many and diverse to
make it possible for Congress, in respect of matters such as
these, to legislate directly with adequate appreciation of
varying conditions. Nor is the substance of the power
changed because the President may act at the instance of
trade or industrial associations having special knowledge
of the facts. Their function is strictly advisory; it is the
imprimaturof the President that begets the quality of law.
Doty v. Love, ante, p. 64. When the task that is set
before one is that of cleaning house, it is prudent as well
as usual to take counsel of the dwellers.
But there is another conception of codes of fair competition, their significance and function, which leads to
very different consequences, though it is one that is
struggling now for recognition and acceptance. By this
other conception a code is not to be restricted to the
elimination of business practices that would be characterized by general acceptation as oppressive or unfair. It is
to include whatever ordinances may be desirable or helpful for the well-being or prosperity of the industry

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
495

553

CARDozo, J., concurring.

affected. In that view, the function of its adoption is not
merely negative, but positive; the planning of improvements as well as the extirpation of abuses. What is fair,
as thus conceived, is not something to be contrasted with
what is unfair or fraudulent or tricky. The extension
becomes as wide as the field of industrial regulation. If
that conception shall prevail, anything that Congress may
do within the limits of the commerce clause for the betterment of business may be done by the President upon
the recommendation of a trade association by calling it
a code. This is delegation running riot. No such plenitude of power is susceptible of transfer. The statute,
however, aims at nothing less, as one can learn both from
its terms and from the administrative practice under it.
Nothing less is aimed at by the code now submitted to
our scrutiny.
The"code does not confine itself to tne suppression of
methods of competition that would be classified as unfair
according to accepted business standards or accepted
norms of ethics. It sets up a comprehensive body of rules
to promote the welfare of the industry, if not the welfare
of the natioh, without reference to standards, ethical or
commercial, that could be known or predicted in advance
of its adoption. One of the new rules, the source of ten
counts in the indictment, is aimed at an established practice, not unethical or oppressive, the practice of selective
buying. Many others could be instanced as open to the
same objection if the sections of the code were to be
examined one by one. The process of dissection will not
be traced in all its details. Enough at this time to state
what it reveals. Even if the statute itself had fixed the
meaning of'fair competition by way of contrast with practices that are oppressive or unfair, the code outruns the
bounds of the authority conferred. Wlhat is excessive is
not sporadic or superficial. It is deep-seated and per-

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARnozo, J., concurring.

295 U. S.

vasive. The licit and illicit sections are so combined and
welded as to be. incapable of severance without destructive mutilation.
But there is another objection, far-reaching and incurable, aside from any defect of unlawful delegation.
If this code had been adopted by Congress itself, and
not by the President on the advice of an industrial association, it would even then be void unless authority to adopt
-it is included in the grant of power "to regulate commerce
with foreign nations. and among the several states."
United States Constitution, Art. I, § 8, Clause 3.
I find no authority in that grant for the regulation of
wages and hours of labor in the intrastate transactions
that make up the defendants' business. As to this feature
of the case little can be added to the opinion of the court.
There is a view of causation that would obliterate the distinction between what is national and what is local in the
activities of commerce. Motion at the outer rim is communicated perceptibly, though, minutely, to recording
instruments at the center. A society such as ours "is an
elastic medium which transmits all tremors throughout
its territory; the only question is of their size." Per
Learned Hand, J., in the court below. The law is not indifferent to. considerations of degree. Activities 'local in
their immediacy do not become interstate and national
because of distant repercussions. What is near and what
is distant may at times be uncertain. Cf. Chicago Board
of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1. There is no penumbra of
uncertainty obscuring judgment,'here. To find immediacy or directness here is to find it almost everywhere. If
centripetal forces are to be isolated to the exclusion of the
-forces that oppose and counteract them, there will be an
end to our federal system.'
To take from this code the provisions as to wages and
the hours of labor is to destroy it altogether. If a trade
or an industry is so predominantly local as to be exempt

LOUISVILLE BANK v. RADFORD.

555

Syllabus.

555

from regulation by the Congress in respect of matters s~ih
as these, there can be no "code" for it at-All 'Thisis
clear from the provisions of § 7a of the ACt withits explicit
disclosure of the statutory scheme. Wages and the hours
of labor are essential features of the plan, its very bone
and sinew. There is no opportunity in such circumstances
for the severance of the infected parts in the hope of saving the remainder. A code collapses utterly with bone
and sinew gone.

I am authorized to state that MR.
in this opinion.

JUsTIcE

SToNE.joins

______________

LOUISVILLE JOINT STOCK LAND BANKt v.
RADFORD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS4O
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

kE

No. 717. Argued April 1, 2, 1935.--Decided May:27, 1935.
1. The bankruptcy power, like the other great substantive: powler§ of
Congress, is subject to the Fifth Amendment. P. 589.
2. Under the bankruptcy power, Congress may discharge the odebtor's
personal obligation, because, 'unlike the States, it is not prohibited.
from impairing the obligation of contracts; but it can not 'take ?or
the benefit of the debtor rights in specific property, acquired by
the creditor prior to the Act. P. 589.
3. The Fifth Amendment commands that, however great the Nation's
need, private property shall not be taken even for a wholly public
use without just compensation. P. 602.
4. If the public interest requires, and-permits, the taking of property
of individual mortgagees in order to relieve the necessities of individual mortgagors, resort must be had to proceedings by eminent
domain; so that, through taxation, the burden of' the relief
afforded in the public interest may be borne -by the public.
Pp. 598, 602.
5. The provisions added to § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act by the Act
of June 28, 1934, known as the Frazier-Lemke Act, operate, as
applied in this case, to take valuable rights in specific property
from one person and give them to another, in violation of the
Constitution. P. 601.

