THE ADMIRAL PEOPLES.
647

Syllabus.

to be untenable. We said: "The blow by the sling was
what gave rise to the cause of action. It was given and'
took effect while deceased was upon the land. It was the
sole, immediate and proximate cause of his death. The
G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450, 460. The substance and consummation of the occurrence which gave rise to the cause
of action took place on land." 1d., p. 182.
If, when the blow from a swinging crane knocks a longshoreman from the dock into the water, the cause of action
arises on the land, it must follow, upon the same reasoning, that when he is struck upon the vessel and the blow
throws him upon the dock the cause of action arises on the
vessel. Compare Vancouver S. S. Co. v. Rice, 288 U. S.
445, 448.
The decision in L'Hote v. Crowell, 286 U. S. %i28; upon
which petitioner relies, is not opposed. In that case,.we
dealt only with the determination of the question of the
dependency of a claimant for compensation, holding that
the finding of fact by the deputy commissioner against
the claimant upon that issue should not have beea disturbed. The writ of certiorari was limited to that question. 54 F. (2d) 212; 285 U. S. 533. The judgment is
Affirmed.
THE ADMIRAL PEOPLES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 696.

Submitted April 12, 1935.-Decided June 3, 1935.

A passenger while disembarking from a ship over its gangplank, which
projected above a dock, fell from the shore end of the gangplank to
the dock and was injured by the fall. Negligence in failing to pro• The docket title of this case is: Kenward v. The Admiral Peoples
et al.

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

vide a railing on the gangplank, in failing to" have the plank flush
with the dock or taper off to the dock level, and in failing to give
warning of the step, was charged against the ship. Held that the
gangplank was part of the ship, and the cause of action in admiralty. P. 651.
73 F. (2d) 170, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 702, to review a judgment affirming a judgment sustaining an exception to a libel in
admiralty.
Messrs. Andrew G. Hatey and John P. Hannon submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. W. Lair Thompson and Wallace McCamant
submitted for respondents.
MR. CHiEF JusTric. H >HES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Petitioner was a passenger on the steamship "Admiral
Peoples" on her voyage from Wilmington, California,
to Pottland, Oregon. While disembarking at Portland
petitioner was injured by falling from a gangplank leading from the vessel to the dock. This libel in rem
against the vessel alleged that respondent placed the gangplank so that it sloped from the ship toward the dock at
an angle of from ten to fifteen degrees; that it was approximately two feet in width and eighteen feet in length
and was equipped with the usual rope railings which
terminated approximately three feet from each end; that
the level of the plank at the shore end was about six
inches above the level of the dock, thereby creating a step
from the plank to the dock; that upon instructions from
one of respondent's officers, libelant proceeded along the
plank and as she reached its lower end, being unaware of
the step and having no warning, she fell from the plank
and was "violently and forcibly thrown foriard upon the

THE ADMIRAL PEOPLES.
649

'651

Opinion of the Court.

dock in such manner as to cause the injuries hereinafter
set forth." Libelant alleged negligence in failing'to pro'vide a handrope or railing extending along eithdr side of
the gangplank to the shore end, in failing to have the
plank flush with the dock or taper off to the level of the
dock, and in failing to give.warning of the step.
Respondent's exception to the libel, upon the ground
that the case was not within the admiralty jurisdiction,
was sustained by the District Court, and its judgment dismissing the libel was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. In view of an asserted conflict with other decisions
of the federal courts,' we granted a writ of certiorari.
This is one of the border cases involving the close distinctions which from time to time are fecessary i-app'lying the principles governing the admiralty jurisdiction.
That jurisdiction in cass of tort depends upon the locality of the injury. It does not extend to injuries caused.
by a vessel to persons or property on the land. Where
the cause of action arises upon the land, the state law is
applicable. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, 33; Johnson v.
Chicago & PacificElevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 397; Cleveland Terminal & V. R. Co. v. Cleveland Steamship ,Co.,
208 U. S. 316, 319; Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek,
234 U. S. 52, 59; State Industrial Cumm'n v. Nordenholt
Corp., 259 U. S. 263, 272; Smith & Son v. Taylor, 276
U. S. 179, 181; compare Vancouver S. S. Co. v. Rice, 288
U. S. 445, 448.
The basic fact in the instant case is that the gangplank
was a part of the vessel. It was a part of the vessel's
equipment which was placed hi position to enable its
passengers, to reach the shore. It was no less a part of
the vessel because in its extension to the dock it pro'Compare The Strabo, 90 Fed. 110, 98 Fed. 998; The H. S. Pickands, 42 Fed. 239; The Aurora, 163 Fed. 633, 178 Fed. 587; Aurora
Shipping Co. v. Boyce, 191 Fed. 960; The Atna, 297 Fed. 673; The
Brand, 29 F. (2d) 792.

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

jected over the land. Thus, while the libelant was on
the gangplank she had not yet left the vessel. This was
still true as she proceeded to the shore end of the plank.
If while on that part of the vessel she had been hit by a
swinging crane and had been precipitated upon the dock,
the admiralty would have had jurisdiction of her claim.
See Minnie v. PortHuron Terminal Co., decided this day,
ante, p. 647. If instead of being struck in this way, the
negligent handling of the vessel, as by a sudden movement, had caused her to fall from the gangplank, the cause
of action would still have arisen on the vessel. We perceive no basis for a sound distinction because her fall
was due to negligence in the construction or placing of
the gangplank. By reason of that neglect, as the libel
alleges, she fell from the plank and was violently thrown
forward upon the dock. Neither the short distance that
she fell nor the fact that she fell on the dock and not in
the water, alters the nature of the cause of action which
arose from the breach of duty owing to her while she was
still on the ship and using its facility for disembarking.
This view is supported by the weight of authority in
the federal courts. In The Strabo, 90 Fed. 110, 98 Fed.
998, libelant, who was working on a vessel lying at a dock,
attempted to leave the vessel by means of a ladder which,
by reason of the master's negligence, was not secured
properly to the ship's rail and in consequence -the ladder
fell and the libelant was thrown to the dock and injured.
The District Court, sustaining the admiralty jurisdiction, asked these pertinent questions (90 Fed. p. 113):
"If a passenger, standing-at the gangway, for the purpose
of alighting, were disturbed by some negligent act of the
master, would the jurisdiction of this court depend upon
the fact whether he fell on the dock, and -remained there,
or whether he was precipitated upon the dock in the first
instance, or finally landed there after first falling on some
part of the ship? If a seaman, by the master's neglect,

Ta1F. ADMIRAL PEOPLES.
649

Opinion of the Court.

should fall overboard, would this court entertain jurisdiction if the seaman fell in the 'water, and decline jurisdiction if he fell on the dock or other land? The incegtion of a cause of action is not usually defined by such a
rule." The Circuit Court 6f Appeals of the Second Circuit, affirming the decision of thb District Court (98 Fed.
p. 1000), thought it would be a too literal and an inaLmissible interpretation of the language used in The Plymouth, supra, to say that "if a passenger on board a
steamship should, through the negligence, of the owners,
stumble on the ship upon a defective gangplank, and be
precipitated upon the wharf, the injury would not be a
The language employed in the. Plymmaritime tort." ..
outh decision," said the courti "and which was applicable
to the circumstances of that case, does not justify such a
conclusion." And, deciding the case before it, the Circuit Court of Appeals said: "The cause of action originated and the injury had commenced on the ship, the
consummation somewhere being inevitable. It is not of
vital importance to the admiralty jurisdiction whether
the injury culminated on the stringpiece of the wharf or
in the water." See, also, The Atna, 297 Fed-. 673, 675,
676; The Brand, 29 F. (2d) 792.
In L'Hote v. Crowell, 54 F. (2dk212, a longshoreman,
who had been working on a wharf in putting bales in a
sling which was raised by the ship's tackle and then
lowered into its hold, was riding on the last load when the
sling struck against the rail or side of the*ship, with the
result that he fell to the wharf and was injured. The
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit said that
he had "finished his work on the wharf and from the time
he was lifted from it by the sling by means of the ship's
tackle was under the control of an instrumentality of the
ship "; and, in that view, the jurisdiction, of admiralty
was sustained. The ruling in that case was not disturbed
by our decision on certiorari (as the Circuit Court of Ap-

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

peals in the instant case mistakenly supposed), as our writ
was expressly limited to the question raised by the review of the deputy commissioner's finding as to the dependency of a claimant for compensation under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act. 285
U. S. 533. We decided simply that the finding of the
deputy commissioner, upon evidence, against the dependency of the claimant, was final, and accordingly we
directed the affirmance of his order. 286 U. S. 528. See
Voehl v. Indemnity Insurance Co., 288 U. S. 162, 166.
We think that the libel presented a case within the
jurisdiction of admiralty. The decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
BALTIMORE & CAROLINA LINE, INC. v. REDMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 178. Argued December 6, 1934.--Decided June 3, 1935.
1. The right to trial by jury preserved by the Seventh Amendment is
the right which existed under the English common law when the
Amendment was adopted. P. 657.
2. The Amendment not only preserves that right but exhibits a
studied purpose to protect it from indirect impairment through
possible enlargements of the power of regxamination existing under
the common law, and to that end declares that "no fact tried by a
jury shall be otherwise regxamined in any court of the United
States than according to the-rules of the common law." P. 657.
3. The aim of the Amendment is to preserve the substance of the
common-law right of trial by jury, as distinguished from mere matters of form or procedure, and particularly to retain the commonlaw distinction between the province of the court and that of the
jury, whereby, in the absence of express or implied consent to the
contrary, issues of law are to be resolved by the court and issues of
fact are to be determined by the jury under appropriate instructions
by the court. P. 657.

