CASES ADJUDGED
R1 THE"

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
UNITED STATES v.. OREGON.
No. 13, original.

Argued March 12, 1935.-Decided Api 1, 1935.

1. An Executive Order setting aside a non-navigable lake on the
public domain as a'bird reservationwas within the authority of
the President, though made before the effective date of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918. P. 10.
2. Title to land within the meander line of a non-navigable lake on
the public domain- did not pass to the State as an incident to
ownership of abutting uplands granted by the United States as
school land, where, prior to approval of the survey of the uplands,
the lake had been set aside by Executive Order as a federal
reservation. P. 9.
3. Acceptance by a State of other lands in lieu ofJands within the
meander line of a non-navigable lake adjacent to uplands granted
it as school lands held a' practical ,construction of the boundary
and a relinquishment of a claim to title within the meander. P. 10.'
4. In a suit by the United States against a State to quiet title to the
bed of a lake on which :the State owns part of the uplands bordering the meander line, the owners of other parts of the uplands in
like situation are not necessary parties and their rights will ;not be
affepted by the decree. P. 12.
5. Upon the admission of a State to the Union, the title of the
United States to lands underlying navigable waters ivithin the
State passes to it, as incident to the transfer to the State of local
sovereignty, and is subject only to the paraniount power of the
United States to control such waters for purposes' of navigation in
interstate and foreign commerce. P. 14.
6. But if the waters are not navigable in fact, the title of the United
States to land underlying them remains unaffected by the creation
of the new State. P. 14.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

7. In determining whether title to lands underlying waters passed
to the State in virtue of its admission. to statehood, the question
whether the waters were navigable or non-navigable is a federal
question, which is to be determined according to the laws and
usages applied by the federal courts, even though the waters are
not capable of use for navigation in interstate or foreign commerce.
P. 14.
8.The test of navigability is whether the body of water in question,
in its natural and ordinary condition, is susceptible of use for
navigation in the customary modes of trade and travel over water,
and has capacity. for general and common usefulness for trade and
commerce. P. 15.
Upon the evidence in this case, Malheur, Mud and Harney Lakes,
and connecting waters in Oregon, are adjudged to have been nonnavigable at the time of admission of the State, and since.
Pp. 8, 16 et seq.
9. Previous recognition of the non-navigable character of .a lake on
the public domain, by the Secretary of the Interior and by the
state courts, is significant in determining the question. P. 23.
10. A bill to quiet title may not be defeated by showing that the
plaintiff's interest, otherwise sufficient to support the bill, may be
subject to possibly superior rights in third persons not parties to
the suit. It'is enough that the interest asserted by the plaintif
in possession of land is superior to that of those who are parties
defendant. P. 24.
11. A possession under color and claim of title which is sufficient to
iireclude the claimant from trying the title in ejectment is an
adequate basis for a suit-in equity to remove clouds created by
assertions of an inferior title by another. P. 25.
12. The United States has complete c6ntrol, free from restriction or
limitation by the States, over the disposition of title to its lands;
the construction of its grants is a federal question and involves the
consideration of state questions only in so far as it may be determined as a matter of federal law that the United States had
impliedly adopted and assented to a state rule of construction as
applicable to its conveyances. P. 27.
13. A state statute declaring that lakes within the State which have
been meandered by the United States surveys are navigable public
waters of the State, and that the title to their beds is in the State,
can have no effect upon title retained by the United States to the

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
Argument- for Oregon.

bed of a non-navigable lake, nor upon the interests in the bed that
may have passed to others as incidents'of grants of- the United
States conveying abutting uplands. Pp. 26, 28.
Decree for the plaintiff.
ORIGINAL SUIT

brought by. the United States against

the State of Oregon to quiet title to unsurveyed land
within a meander line purporting to mark the boundaries
of lands underlying three lakes, and" waters connecting
them, in that State. For decree, see post, p. 701.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Messrs. David E.
Hudson, Aubrey- Lawrence, H. Brian Holland, Lee A.
Tackson, and Benjamin Catchings were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. L. A. Liljeqvist, Assistant Attorney General of
Oregon, with whom Mr. I._.l. Van Winkle, Attorney General, was on the brief, for defendant.
The area involved constituted, navigable waters (in
fact) on February 14, 1859, when Oregon was admitted
into the Union.
There were no stable lands constituting islands or
promontories within the area involved on February 14,
1859.
The meander line laid down by J. H. Neal was a correct
line. Furtherriiore it is not challenged in the pleadings
of the United States herein.
There were no relicted lands within the meander line
boundary at the commencement of this'suit.
All the grants made by the United States to lands
borderi'ng upon the meander line are comparable in form
to those involved in Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371,
except that in' the case of school sections and lieu lands
no patent, was issued, the grant being in effect the. provisions of the statutes under which title passed to the ?
State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Oregon.

295 U. S.

The rule of the common law under Hardin v. Jordan,
supra, that the effect of conveyances of lands bordering
on a meandered lake is that the grantee takes to the center,
is not in force in Oregon; the local law provides that the
grantee takes only to the water's edge.
The rule is not applicable to lakes of the size and character of Malheur and Harney Lakes.
In Oregon the title, from the water's edge to the center
of a non-navigable lake, passes to the State-at least as to
so much of the bed fronting uplands which have*been
granted without restricions or reservations.
The same rule of riparian rights (no more, no less) applying to upland owners on meandered lakes in ,Oregon
applies to owners of the school sections and indemnity
lands taken in lieu of deficiencies in school sections abutting on the meander line.
If the State uses the deficiency within the meander,.or
fractional sections of school lands bordering upon the lake,
as a base.for lieu 'lands, it does not, in any, event, lose title
to any lands other than those so used.
Oregon claims that it was within its jurisdiction by judicial
and line.
statute to assert title to the lands
within'decisions
the meander
Where the United States grants the uplands on a correctly meandered non-navigable lake without reservations
or restrictions in terms, it is within the power of the State
to declare thewaters in front of such granted lands na-'igable and pub.i, and to assert ownership and sovereignty
over the bed and to preserve its control.,'
The Executive Order of August 18, 1908, was ultra vires
and invalid. Furthermore, it was only the surveyed lands
touching the"shore line of the lakes, under the designation
"the smallest legal subdivisions," which were reserved;
and therefore unsurveyed lands.bordering the lakes, were
not reserved by the Order.
This Court should make an order bringing in riparian
owners and the claimants to the bed, so that the legal

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
Opinion of the Court.

questions involved may be completely. determined, and
the entire controversy settled in this suit. Such owners
and claimants are necessary and indispensable parties,
herein.
The rule that a plaintiff in a suit to quiet title must
recover upon the strength of his ow*n title is applicable.
If this Court holds the waters to be non-navigable, then
the plaintiff can recover title to only so' much of the beds
of the lakes as front unpatented, vacant public lands
upon the meander line.
MR.

JUSTICE

STON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an original suit brought by the United. States
against the State of Oregon to quiet-title to 81,786 acres
of unsurveyed lands in Haxaey County, Oregon. The
lands lie within a meander line 105.36 miles in length.
The -line was surveyed principally by John H. Neal in
1895-1896, and approved by the Commissioner of the
Land Office in 1897; the remainder has since been surveyed, and has been approved by the Commissioner. The
meander line. purports to mark the boundaries of lands
underlying five bodies of water at the ordinary or mean
high water mark. They are Lake Malheur (47,670 acres),
Mud Lake (1,466 acres), Harney Lake (29,562 acres), the
Narrows (296 acres, connecting Lake Malheur with Mud
Lake), -and the Sand Reef (2,792 acres, connecting Mud
Lake with Harpey Lake). 'The five bodies of water extend from the extreme -end of Lake Malheur on the east
to the westerly side o'f HaMey Lake, a distance of approximately hirty.-miles.' Lake Malheur is shown by
maps in evidence to.be 16.66 miles in.length and more.
than 6 miles in 'width. Mud Lake is a small body of
water, a little over a mile in diameter. '-Harney Lake is
similarly shown to be,8.57 miles long and approximately
5 miles wide.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The principal source of inflow to Lake Malheur, at all
the times material to the present controversy, has been
from the Silvies River on the north and the Donner und,
Blitzen River on the south. The source of inflow to Harney Lake is from Lake Malheur through the Narrows,
thence through Mud Iake and the Sand Reef. Some
water also flows into Harney Lake on the north from
Silver Creek, a mountain stream which is dry for part
of the year. Harney Lake has no outlet.
By Executive Order of August 18, 1908, all of the land
claimed by the United States in this suit was set apart
as a bird reserve, known as the- Lake Malheur Reservation, and has since been administered as such by the
United States Bureau of Biological Survey, under the
direction of the Department of Agriculture.
The State of Oregon was admitted to the Union on
February 14, .1859. At that date the area within the
meander line was a part of the public domain of the
United States. No part of it has ever been disposed of,.
in terms, by any grant of the U nited States. Decision
of the principal issues raised by the pleadings and proof
turns on the question whether the area involved underlay
navigable-waters at the time of the admission of Oregon
to statehood. If the waters were navigable in fact, title
passed to the State upon her admission to the Union.
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.1, 26-31; Scott v. Lattig, 227
U. S. 229, 242, 243; Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574,
583, 591; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S.64, 75. If the
waters were non-navigable, our decision must then turn
on the question whether the title of the United States
to the lands in question, or part of them, has passed to the
State. This is asserted to be a consequence of the United
States having parted with title to the uplands bordering
on the meander line, by patents to private grantees, and
by- statutory grant to the State of school and indemnity
lands in the act admitting Oregon to statehood, see Unitec
States v. Morrison, 240 U. S. 192. The State contends

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

that the common-law rule, applied by this Court in Hardin
v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, that a conveyance of land
bounded upon the waters of a non-navigable lake carries
by implication to the center of the lake, does not obtain-in
Oregon, especially in the case of lakes of the size of Malheur and Harney. It insists that grants by the United
States of lands within the State, like those of a private
individual, are to be construed in accordance with state
law, and that by the common and statute law of Or.egon
a conveyance of the uplands bordering on a non-navigable
lake, by the owner of the lake bed to any grantee, vests
title to the bed in the State. Other questions of minor
importance will be considered as it is found necessary
to, deal with them in the course of the opinion.
The issues raised by the pleadings ivere referred to a
special master, with the powers of a master in chancery,
to take the evidence'and report his findings of fact and
conclusions of law, and to make recommendations to !his
Court for a decreev After hearing and cmnsidering voluminous testimony he has rendered his' report, with findings
of fact and. conclusions of jaw and a proposed form of
decree. He found that '] dne of the waters. within the
meander line was navigable in fact ana concluded that the
State of Oregon had acquired no right, title or interest in
any part of the land lying wthin the meander line, save
such as is incidental to the ownership, of. land acquired
by it from patelitees of the United States, fronting a distance .of 159.67 chains on the meander line on either side
of the westerly portion of the Narrows, designated on
.maps in evidence as Subdivision B (between the bridge
and Mud Lake), and such as is incidental to its ownership
of uplands acquired from grantees of the United States
by patents bounding the granted lands upon the meander
line fronting on the easterly side of Mud Lake, a distance
of 72.31 chains. See Hardinv. Jordan,supra.,
i .
With reference to the land within the meander boundaries of Subdivision B of the Narrows, he found that the

8

GOTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

United States, prior to the commencement of suit, had disposed of all its interest in the uplands bordering on the meander line on both sides, to patentees and as indemnity
lands under the school land grant, to Oregon. He also
found*that the Narrows-had the character of a non-navigable stream, and 6oncluded that the United States had
retained no interest in the land within the meander line
boundary, since R. S. § 2476, applicable to grants of the
United States, provides: ".... in all cases where the op-

posite banks of any streams not-navigable belong to different persons, the stream and the bed thereof shall
become common to both."
The Master accordingly recommended a decree adjudging that the State is owner in fee simple of the land lying
within the meander line of Subdivision B of'the Narrows,
incidental to its ownership of patented uplands bordering on the meander line, and to a portion of the bed of
Mud Lake fronting the riparihn or littoral patented land
of the State on Mud Lake, aggregating 8.99% of the total
-lake bed. The percentage was derived by determining
the proportion which the length of the State's boundary
.in
the meander line bears to the total meander line of
the lake. It was further recomnended that the State be
adjudged to have no other right, title or interest in any
of the lands in suit.
He also made the following findings which have a
bearing on the'title of the United States to land within
the meander line boundary of each of the five bodies of
water.
Lake Mdlheur: He found that the United States,'before suit, had disposed of 79.80% of the total, frontage of
the upland bordering on the'meander line of Lake Malheur and had .retained upland fronting on the meander
line to the' extent of the remaining 20.20%. Of the
79.80% disposed of, 1.34% was school lands, granted to
Oregon and sold by it to private grantees, and 4.80% was
indemnity. land, listed to and similarly sold by the State

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
Opinion of the Court.

before action was brought. The remaining 73.66% had
been patented directly to private grantees. As none of
the owners of these lands is a party to the presentsuit,
the Master made no recommendation for a decree as to
their interests in-thd land within'the meander line.
The Narrows: As to Subdivision A, the Master found
that the lands bordering on both sides comprised patented
and indemnity lands which had been conveyed to individual owners, and that, as the Narrows is a non-navigable
stream, the United States, by virtue of R. S. 2476,
retained no interest in the land within the mea.nder line,
except insofar as it may have an easement through the
entire Division for the flow of water from Lake Malheur.
Mud Lake: The Master found that the United States
had retained no upland fronting on the meander line
boundary. All except that now vested in Oregon, already
referred to as having a frontage of 72.31 chains on the
meander line boundary, is vested in private owners. Neither party has taken any exception to the findings, and
as the private owners are not parties to the present suit,
the Master made no recommendation for a decree with
respect to their title or interest in the land within the
meander boundary.
The Sand Reef: The Master found that the United
States, at the commencement of the suit, had retained
uplands having 84.92% of the total frontage on the
meander line boundary of the Sand Reef. Of the frontage
disposed of, 4.90% is that acquired by individuals and
the remaining 10.18% is school land acquired by Oregon.
The ,claim of the State that it has title to the adjacent
lands within the meander line, as incident to its 'ownership
of the'ipland, was rejected by the Special Master because
the survey of the uplands was approved subsequent to
the Executive Order of August 18, 1908, setting aside the
area in question as the Lake Malheur Reservation. Although the State has excepted to. this finding, because the
Proclamation antedated the effective date of the Migra-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. 6.

tory Bird Treaty Act, approved July 3, 1918, c. 128, 40
Stat. 755, we conclude that the Master's determination
was correct. See United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236
U. S. 459, 469-475; United States v. Morrison, 240 U. S.
192, 210; see also the Act for the Protection of Game
Birds of June 28, 1906, c. 3565, 34 Stat. 536.
, Harney Lake: The Master f9und that at the time of
commencement of the suit the United States had retained
uplands bordering on 87.91% of the meander line boundary of Harney Lake and that it had disposed of lands
having a frontage of 12.09%. Of this, 1.10% represents
the frontage of land patented to a private individual. The
remaining 10.99% represents frontage of school lands, of
which those having a frontage of 5.87% were acquired
by Oregon upon surveys approved after the Executive
Order of August 18, 1908. For reasons already stated we
conclude that .the .Master correctly determined that the
State acquired no interest in the lands, within the mean-"
der line upon this frontage, hs incident to its ownership
of the upland.
The Master found that the remaining school lands, hav
ing a frontage of 5.12%, passed to Oregon under a survey
approved before the Executive Order, but he rejected the
claim of Oregon to any interest in the adjacent land
within the meander line. This was done because he
thought the rule of Hardin v. Jordan, supra, was not
applicable to school and indemnity lands surveyed to the
border of noh-navigable -waters, and because the State
had claimed and received lieu lands elsewhere for a deficiency in granted school lands, which deficiency lay
within the meander line. We do not pass upon the first
ground, but. agree that the acceptance by the State of
lands elsewhere, in lieu of lands lying within the meander'l"e adjacent to the granted uplands, was such a prac.
tical cdnstruction of the boundary, and necessarily in.
volved such a relinquishment of any interest in. tht

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.

11

Opinion of the Court.

adjacent lands as an incident to the grant of uplands, as
to preclude the assertion of that claim here.
The Master accordingly concluded that the United
States retained the entire interest in the area within the
meander line of Harney Lake, except uch interest as was
acquired by the individual patentee of upland. As he
was not a party to the suit, the Master made no recommendation with respect to a decree as to his interest.
Stable Lands 'within the Meander 'Line: The Special
Master found that there were stable lands, consisting of
islands and promontories within the ineander line, agregating 9,327.8 acres" at the mean water surface elevation
)f4,093 feet abQve. sea levbl, the title to which hb found
zo be in the United States.'
The exceptions filed to the Master's report raise further
issues with respect to the foll6wing findings, among
others:
1. That the waters under which the lands in question
lay were not navigable in fact on February 14, 1859, the
date of admission of Oregon to statehood.
2. That there were on that date stable lands constituting islands and promontories within the meander line.
'Malheur Lake.
Acres

(a) Pelican Island ....................

840.0

(b) Cole Island .........................
350.0
,(c) All other Islands .................... 4,921.6
(d) Promontories ....................... 1,880.0

Total ..................................... 7,9916
The Narrows Islands ...........................
21.2
Mud Lake Islands ..............................
Sand Reef Islands .................. ............

88.0
1,227.0

9,327.8

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

3. That the meander line as surveyed by J. H. Neal,
1895-1896, and approved in 1897, was and is a correct
line.
4. That it is unnecessary to make any finding with
respect to relicted lands within the meander line boundary, since such findings would affect only the title to upland owners not parties to the suit.
5. That the grants made by the United States to patentees of lands bordering upon the meander line
boundary were comparable to those involved in Hardin v.
Jordan, supra.
The State of Oregon has excepted to findings 1 and 2,
and to the Master's failure to find that there were no
relicted lands within the meander line boundary, and the
United States has excepted to findings 3 and 5, its exceptions being intended to confine the decision to the issues
between the United States and the State of Oregon and
to eliminate consideration of questions affecting the rights
of the upland patentee proprietors and settlers who are
not parties to the suit.
In the view we take of the issues which are decisive
of the present controversy between the United States
and Oregon,. it is unnecessary to determine the rights in
the disputed area of the owners, other than Oregon, of
uplands bordering on the meander line boundary, whether
their claims are based upon reliction or the acquisition
of an interest as an incident to the grants by the United
States of uplands bordering the meander line. Nor is it
necessary to determine whether any part of the meander
line -is correct upon which the lands of such upland
owners border. As they are not parties, their rights cannot be affected by any decree to be entered in the present
suit. Priest v. Las Vegas, 232 U. S. 604. Adjudication
of their rights, as will be later pointed out, is not prerequisite to maintenance of the present suit or to entry
of an appropriate decree.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
Opinion of the Court.

It is also unnecessary to consider in detail the State's
exceptions to the findings that there are - stable lands
within the disputed area. Even if such lands are not fast
lands, because, as the State maintains, the mean surface
water elevation is higher than 4,093 feet, as found by the
Master, the claim of the United States that it has title
to them will be controlled by our conclusions as to its
title*to lands within the meander line in which the Master
has found the State to have no title or interest.
Neither the Government nor the State challenges the
findings of the Master that Oregon has title to a part of
the land lying within the meander line of Mud Lake, and
to the land within the meander line boundary of Subdivision B of the Narrows. We accordingly accept those
findings as correct. We have already resolved against
the State the contentions that it has acquired and retains
any right or interest, in the land lying within the meander
line of any of the other divisions, as an incident to ownership of the uplands bordering'on the meander line.
Such being the state of the case, the contentions of the
State are reduced to three, which are those mainly relied
upon in brief and aigument. They are: (1) that the
waters lying within the meander line boundary were and
are navigable'in fact. If not, it is then urged that the
Government is impaled on one .of the two horns of a
lilemma: either (2) under the doctrine of Hardin .v.
Jordan, supra, title to the land underlying the water
passed to the upland proprietors by virtue of the- grants
by the United States of uplands bordering on the meander line, in which case the United States, which must
maintain its suit to quiet title by the strength of its own
title rather than by the wealAness of the defendant's, is
not entitled to the relief which it seeks; or (3) the
United States, br its conveyance of the uplands, has
transferred to Oregon its title to adjacent lands within
the meander line,.by operation of the common and statute'

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

law 6f -the State, to which all conveyances of land within
the State are subject.
We therefore pass directly to .aconsideration of these
principal issues of the case.
I. Navigability.
Dominion over navigable waters and propel'ty in the
soil under them are so identified with the sovereign power
of government that a presumption against their separation from sovereignty must be indulged, in construing
either grants by the sovereign of the lands, to be. held in
private ownership or transfer of sovereignty itself. See
Massachusetts v. New York, 271 U. S. 65, 89. "'
Fr that
reason, upon the admission of a State to the Union, the
title of the United States to lands underlying navigable
waters within the States passes to it, as incident to the
transfer to the State. of local sovereignty, and' is subject
only to the paramount power of the United States to control such waters for purposes of navigation in interstate
and foreign commerce. But if the waters are not navi,gable in fact, the title 6f the United States to lano under-

lying them remains unaffected by the creation of the new
State.. See United States v. Utah, supra,75; Oklahoma v.
Texas, supra, 583, 591. Since theeffect upon the title to
such -lands is the result of federal action in admitting a
state to the Union, the question, whether the waters
within the State under which the lands lie are navigable or
non-navigable, is a federal, not a 'local one. It is, therefore, to be determined according to the law and usages
recognized and applied in the federal courts, even though,
as in the present case, the waters are not capable of use
for navigation in interstate or foreign commerce. United
States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S.49, 55, 56; United
States v. Utah, supra,75; Brewer-ElliottOil Co. v. Uited
States, 260 U. S.77, 87.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.

15

IOpinion of the Court.

The Special Master based his conclusion that the waters
within the meander'line boundary were not navigable in
fact on the date of the admission of Oregon to the Union,
or afterward, on his finding of fact that:
"neither trade nor travel did then or at any time since has
or, could 'r can move over said Divisions, or any of them,
in 'their natural or ordinary -conditions according to the
customary modes of trade or travel over water; nor was
any of them on. February 14, 1859, nor has any of them
since been used or susceptible of being used in the natural
or ordinary condition of any of them as permanent or
other highways or chahnels for useful or other commerce."
It is not denied that this finding embodies the appropriate
tests of navigability as laid down by the decisions of
this Court. See United States v. Holt State Bank, supra,
56; United States v. Utah, supra, 76; Brewer-Elliott Oil
Co. v. United States, supra, 86; Oklahoma v., Texas, supra, 586; Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States,
256 U. S. 113, 123; United States v.-Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 698; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557, 563. The only attack upon it is that it isnot adequately supported by the evidence.
The finding, as the Master's report shows in detail, is
rested upon.his observations, made in the course of a personal inspection of the disputed area, -and a careful consideration of the voluminous testimony of one hundred
and forty-three witnesses. He made subsidiary findings
with respect to (1) the physical condition, present and
past, of the several bodies of water with 'respecf to their
depth, their channels or waterways capable of use in nav-igation, and the presence vWithin them of vegetation, all of
which affect their use and the access to them for purposes
of navigation, and (2) their actual use, past and present,
with special reference to (a) trapping of fur-bearing animals and (b) boating.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Physical Condition:The Special Master inspected Lake
Malheur Reservation on or about November 1, 1931, accompanied by counsel and engineers representing the parties. He found that the entire area was then dry, and
showed no signs in the soil of ever having been under
water, except that water one to two inches in depth was
found in Harney Lake, and about 400 acres in Lake Malheur was covered by water of negligible depth, and was
surrounded by about 1,000 acres of mud. This 1,400 acre
area lay in the more southerly part of the lake. The surface elevation above sea level of the 1,400 acres varied
from 4,090 to 4,092 feet, which was below the average
elevation of the meander line, fixed in the findings at
4,093 feet.
These data as to the condition of the area then, which
are not directly challenged and are abundantly supported
by the testimony, indicate clearly enough that all five
divisions are shallow bodies of water which, with the
exception of Lake Malheur, disappear completely or become negligible during a dry season. The five divisions
are shown to lie in a flat plateau and their basins or beds
to be so shallow and unprotected by banks that variations
in the amount of water flowing into them produce large
variations in the area covered by water, but relatively
slight variations in depth. The entire area is shown to
be an "evaporation pan" for the Harney County water
basin, with an average annual evaporation of forty inches.
The Master found that, except in years of abundant rainfall and favorable run-off, the water is not available to
maintain an average water surface elevation of much
above 4,093 feet.
Contour maps of Lake Malheur, where conditions admIittedly are the most favorable for navigation, show that
nearly half its area, with water surface standing at 4,093
feet, would be covered with water two feet or less in
depth, and less than one-fourth of its area with water

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.

17

Opinion of the Court.

between three and four feet in depth.2 The areas which
would be covered by water of depth sufficient to float
boats are shown not to be continuous enough to afford
channels or waterways capable of use in navigation. At
a surface elevation of 4,093 feet the water is so shallow
for long distances from the meander line as to preclude
passage over it by boats, and with the water reduced to
lower levels by seasonal evaporation the same area becomes mud or dry land. With a reduction of only one,
foot in water surface elevation, approximately 11,716
acres, otherwise covered by water, becomes mud or dry
land, and other marked changes in the distribution of
depths are produced. With the reduction in water surface attending the aisual dry season of the summer, much
of the area is made up of small lakes or ponds, separated
by mud or dry land.
There has been no survey of Harney Lake, but contour
maps of the other divisions show similar conditions,
though less favorable to navigability. The evidence establishes that Harney Lake is even more shallow and is
without banks on its westerly end. Its waters are alkaline, and almost without vegetatiopa. Its water area at
the time of trial was approximately 2,000 acres, having a
depth of from one to two inches. The depths have been
' The evidence establishes the following data with respect to Lake
Malheur with water surface at an elevation of 4,093 feet:
Acres
11,715.8
Lands under water of I foot, or less ..........
Lands under between 1 and 2 feet..:....... 10, 126. 6
6,988.4
Lands under between 2 and 3 feet ...........
10, 821.2
Lands under between 3 and 4 feet ...........
26.8
Lands under between 4 and 5 feet ...........
Lands under water... .....................

39, 678.8

Lands above water surface .................

7,991.6

Total ..............................

'47, 670 4

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

variable, but the lake has not been shown at any time
to have had a depth exceeding three feet. The evidence
establishes that it has no stable or constant stand of
water, and that large variations in the water area occur
with seasonal and climatic changes.
All the other divisions are sho~vn to be covered in substantial measure by tules, which ordinarily grow only in
depths of five feet or less, and to be filled in the shallower
portions with growths of vegetation of a character and
extent such as to make navigation difficult, even though
there were channels or waterways otherwise capable of
use for that purpose. The presence of dead sagebrush
and greasewood in all three lakes, in considerable areas
generally covered by water, indicates that the land has
been dry for substantial periods.
Scientific and historical evidence in great volume supports the conclusion that the physical condition of the
bodies of water within the area has not varied substantially, so as to affect the possibility of their use in navigation, since the admission of Oregon to the Union. This
.is established by early maps and reports; a study of tree
rings, indiclting past climatic conditions, particularly
the amount --6f annual rainfall; and the presence in all
divisions, except Harney Lake, of underlying beds of peat
varying from twelve to thirty inches in depth and tending
to establish shallow water conditions, and the presence
of vegetation, over a long period. The conclusion must
be that at the time of admission to statehood the bodies
of water within the meander line were shallow, with average surface water not much above 4,093 feet, with the
water of all except Harney Lake substantially filled with
tules and other types of water vegetation, so as to give
them largely the, character of swamps, with irregularly
located but connected areas of shallow open water of
variable depths.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
I

Opinion of the Court.

The conclusion of the Special Master, that only under
exceptional conditions does the water surface rise above
4,093 feet, is challenged by the State. The finding is
based in part upon an elaborate study and report of water
conditions in the Harney County water basin, prepared
by Jessup, a Government engineer, showing that "in order to maintain a mean average elevation of *this lake
surface [Lake Malheur] -much above 4,093 feet would
require more water than has ever been available." -In
support of Oregon's exception to the Master's finding, it
relies upon two independent private surveys, thq results
of which did not differ materially from those tendered
by the Government, and the evidence of numerous witnesses who testified that at one time or another during
the past 45 years they had seen the water at points
which, if their estimates and recollections are correct,
would establish a water surface elevation above 4,093
feet. Their testimony, aside from its often vague and
untrustworthy character because based on estimates and
unaided recollections over long periods of time, as well
as that of the surveys referred to, tended at most to show
that in exceptional conditions of flood the water surface
rose somewhat above the elevation of the meander line.
There is abundant scientific evidence, and the testimony
of contemporary observers, that for considerable parts of
each year, and except in unusual conditions of flood, the
water falls substantially below that elevation. There is
no convincing evidence that the Special Master erred 'n
his conclusion that the mean water surface elevation is
not much above that point.
The Master also found against the contention of Oregon, set up by its amended answer, that the water surface elevation had been materially lessened by diversion
of water from the Silvies and Donner und Blitzen rivers,
for purposes of irrigation. The record affords no sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S

stantial support for this contention. The voluminous
scientific evidence must be accepted as establishing that
any diversion, which could reasonably be assumed to take
place by reason of irrigation, is too small in comparison
with the area affected to produce any variation in depth
of water sufficient to affect navigability. At a surface
elevation of 4,092 feet the three lakes are connected and
the flow of water required to raise water surface an additional foot, when allowance is made for increased evaporation, would considerably exceed any estimated amount
of water artificially diverted.
Nor does the evidence support the contention of Oregon that the navigability of Lake Malheur and Mud
Lake is affected by the breaking of a channel through the
Sand Reef, and the resulting connection with Harney
Lake, which is said materially to have lowered the surface
of the waters in the two upper lakes. The Special Masier found that the gap, about 45 feet wide, which was
broken through the top of Sand Reef by flood water in
1881, has had no such effect. In this he is supported by
the scientific evidence based upon the contour maps of
the region, and the annual inflow of water into Lake Malheur, and the outflow through the Sand Reef to Harney
Lake. There is no outflow in some years. The evidence
shows that with the Sand Reef closed the depth of water
in Malheur and Mud Lakes would be increased by only a
few tenths of a foot.
Trapping. The State places much reliance on the
large amount of testimony relating to the trapping of furbearing animals, principally muskrats, in the contested
area. The evidence shows that, at times subsequent to
1890, a large number of animals were trapped in the tule
areas, some in fall and spring, but principally in the winter months. Most of this evidence has no bearing on navigability, for with a few exceptions, the trappers appear

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

to have waded or walked. See Toledo Liberal Shooting
Co. v. ErieShooting Club, 90 Fed. 680, 682 (C. C. A. 6th).
Before 1908 only three trappers are shown to have used
boats. Later one trapper is shown to have used a rowboat
and another to have used both a rowboat and a motor
boat. Of the four witnesses who had used boats in connection with trapping, three referred to use of homemade
boats of three or four to six inches draft, one in the fall
of 1833 and following years, another in 1894-1895, and
another subsequent to 1909. All wore gummed boots and
found it necessary, in the use of the boats, to get out and
pull them over shallow points in the lake where the
depths were from one to four inches. Another, who used
a boat in which he had installed a small motor, stated
that the propeller sometimes struck bottom, when it
would be necessary to pole the boat off, and that it was
often stalled by the tangling of the "weedless" propeller
in the vegetation of the lake.
Boating. The Special Master found that the boating
which took place in the area involved had no commercial
aspects and was of such a character as to be no indication
of navigability; that it was only such as might reasonably
be expected to occur in a swampy area of the character
and magnitude described. The issue of navigability was
chiefly concerned with Lake Malheur, but the findings
were made with respect to the entire area.
Numerous witnesses who had lived in the vicinity for
many years had never used a boat and had never, or
rarely, seen one on the lake. Most of the evidence of boating related to the use of boats by trappers, to which reference has already been made, and by duck hunters in
the spring and fall of the year. The boats were all of
light draft, those most in use being canvas canoes or
homemade rowboats, drawing between one and six inches
of water. The record is replete with evidence showing

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

that -many difficulties were customarily encountered in
the use of boats. It was usual to drag them many yards,
sometimes several hundred, from the fast land before they
would float. Once embarked they encountered tules,
,often six feet. or more in height, and much-other water
vegetation, impenetrable at many points, but through
which there was a labyrinth of channels leading to no definite or certain destination. Hunters, in many instances,
found it necessary to flag or otherwise mark the course
in order to insure a convenient and safe route for return.
The boats were often propelled by poling them through
the tules and over the shallow places, or by getting out
and pulling them.
Only four motor boats appear ever to have been used,
and then only to a very limited extent,'when conditions
were favorable, in the more open water in the southeasterly part of Lake Malheur. This could ordinarily be
reached by motor boat only by passing through a con*siderable distance of relatively shallow water in the region
of the Blitzen River. One operator of a motor boat was
often marooned by shallow water and took with him a
small canoe as a means of proceeding when the motor boat
was grounded. He had never found the boat useful because of the weeds and the shallowness of the water.
The others had the same difficilties. Two stated that
they could only use the boats during high water in spring
and early summer. One of them, the Reserve Protector,
a resident since 1909, had patrolled Lake Malheur in his
boat in high water, but the greater portion of his patrolling was not by boat. The fourth person who had used a
motor boat had often found it necessary to get out and
pull the boat over shoals in one to four inches of water.
The evidence of any use of boats in the other divisions was much more meagre and still less indicative of
the possibility of navigation. There is a single instance of
bringing a small quantity of hay. by rowboat from one

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

of the small islands in Lake Malheur, but there isno other
evidence of transportation of any- commodity, beyond
that 'already ihdicated.
The evidence, taken as a whole, clearly establishes the
flat topography of the disputed area, the shallow water
without defined banks, ice-bound from three to four
months of the year, the separation of areas covered by
water, of sufficient depth to float boats, the presence. of
tules and other forms of water vegetation, a dry season
every year, and frequent dry years during which Mud andHarney Lakes are almost entirely without water, and
Lake Malheur is reduced to a relatively few acres of disconnected ponds surrounded by mud. ,These conditions
preclude ,the use-for navigation of the area in question, in
its natural and ordinary condition, according to the customary modes of-trade or travel over water, and etablish
an absence of that capacity f6r general and common usefulness for purposes of trade and commerce which is essential to navigability. See United States v. Rio Grande
Irrigation Co., spra, 698. At most the evidence,shows
such an occasional use of boats, sporadic and ineffective,
as has been observed on lake's, streams or ponds large
enough to float a boat, but which nevertheless were held
to lack navigable capacity. ,See United States v. 'Rio
Grande IrrigationCo., supra, 699; The Montello, 20 Wall.
430, 442; Leovy v. United States, 177 U. S. 621, 627, 633;
North American Dredging'Co. v. Mintzer, 245 Fed. 297
(C. C. A. 9th); Toledo Liberal Shooting Co. v. Erie
Shooting Club, stpra, 682; Harrisonv. Fite, 148 Fed. 781,
786 (C. C. A. 8th).
It is not without significance that the disputed area has
been treated as non-navigable both by the Secretary of
the' Interior 'and the Oregon courts. The Secretary, in
19 L. D. 439, December 3, 1894, described Lake Malheur
as "non-navigable," and in 16 L. 15. 256, March 3, 1893,
and in 30 L. D. 521, March 11, 1901, as "little more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

a swamp or marsh," and again as a "vast marsh or tule
swamp with comparatively little open water." The Oregon Supreme Court, in cases involving the correctness of
the present or previous meander lines, has repeatedly
recognized that. Lake Malheur is non-navigable. See
French-Glenn Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 35 Ore. 312,
323; 58 Pac. 102 (1899), 185 U. S. 47, 53; Cawlfield v.
Smyth, 69 Ore. 41, 42; 138 Pac. 227 (1914); Baiey v.
MalheurIrrigationCo., 36 Ore. 54, 55; 57 Pac. 910 (1899);
In re Rights to Use of Waters of Silvies River, 115 Ore.
27, 34; 237 Pac. 322 (1925).
II. Right of the United States to Maintain the Suit.
Oregon contends that the State has never adopted the
rule of Hardin v. Jordan, supra, and that in any case the
rule has never been applied by this Court"and, further, is
not applicable to lakes the size of Malheur and Harney.
See Stewart v. Turney, 237 N. Y. 117, 123; 142 N. E. 437;
Granger v. Canandaigua,257 N. Y. 126, 130; 177 N. E.
394; Richardson v. Sims, 118 Miss. 728; 80 So. 4; Boardman v. Scott, 102 Ga. 404, 406-419; 30 S. E. 982. But if
applied, and the upland proprietors whose grants are
bounded by the meander line are held to take to the center
of the lakes, then it is insisted that the United States,
which must prevail upon the strength of its own title
rather than the weakness of that of the State, cannot
maintain the present suit to quiet title with respect to
any part of the beds of the lakes thus shown to belong to
the upland proprietors.
A bill to quiet title may not be defeated by showing
that the plaintiff's interest, otherwise sufficient to support
the bill, is subject to possibly superior rights in third persons not parties to the suit. Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106
U. S. 360, 368, 369; Lane v. Watts, 234 U. S. 525, 541;
235 U. S. 17, 23; see also Gridley v. Wynant, 23 How. 500,
503; Clipper Mining Co. v. Eli Mining & Land Co., 194

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 220, 223, 234. It is enough that the interest asserted
by the plaintiff in p6ssession of land is superior to that
of those who are parties defendant.. Before Oregon was
admitted to statehood, the United States is shown to have
acquired title which it has fiever in terms conveyed away.
Its possession and claim of title have ever since continued.
The Executive Order setting aside the area in question as
a bird reservation was an assertion of title and possession.
Following the Order, as the Master found, the United
States, through representatives of the Department of
Agriculture, particularly a resident protector or warden,
has taken active control of all the lands within the meander line. In the exercise of that control it has excluded
hunters, erected- posts marking the limits of the reservation, posted notices advising all persons of the existence
of the reservation and warning them to refrain from hunting on it. This p9ssession of the United States, under
color and claim of title, is not shown to have been disputed or interfered with. As it is sufficient to Preclude
any action at law in the nature of ejectment, it is an adequate basis for relief in equity to remove the cloud created
by the assertion of any inferior title of the State. Wehrman v. Conklin, 155 U. S. 314; 325; Allen v. Hanks, 136
U. S. 300, 311; see Sharon v. Tucker, 144 U. S. 533,
543-548; Lancaster v. Kathleen Oil-Co., 241 U. S. 551,
555, There is no course of legal procedure by which a
title to land can be adjudicated as good against all the
world. It is therefore unnecessary to determine whether
the rule of Hardin v. Jordan, supra, applies to grants of
upland fronting on Lake Malheur and Harney Lake, or
what interests, if any, have been acquired in the disputed
area by any of the upland owners, other than Oregon.
The United States is entitled to relief so far as it is able
to show that Oregonois without any right or title on the
basis of which it would be entitled to disturb the possession
of the United States.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

III. Oregon's Claim of Title to the Lake Beds in Consequence of Grants of Uplands by the United States.
This claim is bagea upon the assumption, which for
present purposes we also make, that the rule of Hardin v.
Jordan, supra, does not obtain in Oregon, and that accordingly •the ownership of upland proprietors does not
extend within the meander line boundary, and also upon
the statute of Oregon effective February 25, 1921, c. 280,
Laws of 1921. This legislation declares that lakes within
the State which have been meandered by United States
surveys are navigable public waters of the State, and
that "the title to the bed and land thereunder, including
the shore or space between ordinary high and low water
marks" not previously granted by the State "is hereby
declared to be in the State of Oregon, and the State of
Oregon hereby asserts and declares its sovereignty over
the same and its ownership thereof." . The contention is
that, upon grant of the uplands by the United States,
whether to the State or others, title to the adjacent lake
beds vested in the State by operation of the statute.
It is insisted that after statehood local law controls the
disposition of the title to lands retained by the United
States underlying non-navigable waters within the State,
and that the effect, upon the title to such lands, of the conveyances of the adjacent upland by the United States is
to be determined by reference to state laws. In support
of this proposition, reliance is placed upon language in the
opinion in Hardinv. Jordan, supra,381-384, which, however, refers in part to conveyances of uplands bounded on
navigable waters (tide water), and upon the decisions of
certain state courts applying the rule contended'for to
lands underlying non-navigable waters. See Fuller v.
Shed, 161 Ill. 462, 494; 44 N. E. 286; Hammond v.
Shepard, 186 Ill. 235, 241; 57 N. E. 867; Wilton v. VanHessen, 249 Ill. 182; 94 N. E. 134; Iowa v. Jones, 143

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.

I

Opinion of the Court.

Iowa 398, 402; 122 N. W. 241; Lamprey v. State, 52 Minn.
181, 192; 53 N. W. 1139; McBride v. Whitaker, 65 Neb.
137, 154; 90 N. W. 966; Ne-pee-Nauk Club v. Wilson, 96
Wis. 290, 295; 71 N. W. 661; compare Whitney v. Detroit
Lumber Co., 78 Wis. 240, 246; 47 N. W. 425.
It is true, as was specifically pointed out in Oklahoma v.
Texas, supra, 594, 595, that the disposition of such lands
is a matter of the intention of the grantor, the United
States, and "if its intention be not otherwise shown it
will be taken to have assented that its conveyance should
be construed and given effect in this particular according
to the law of the state in which the land lies." This was
the effect of the decisions in Hardin v. Jordan, supra;
Mitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S. 406; and Kean v. Calumet
Canal Co., 190 U. S. 452, in which conveyances bounded
upon the waters of a non-navigable lake were, when construed in accordance with local law, held impliedly to
convey to the middle of the lake.
The rule that title to lands underlying navigable waters
presumptively passes to the State upon admission to the
Union has already been noted. Massachusetts v. New
York, supra, 89; see Scott v. Lattig, supra, 242, 243. But
in no case has this Court held that a state could deprive
the United States of its title to land under non-navigable
waters without its consent, or that a grant of uplands to
private individuals, which does not in terms or by implication include the adjacent land under water, nevertheless
operates to pass it to the State. Whether, on any theory,
such 'a result could be. upheld was a question expressly reserved in Hardinv. Shedd, 190 U. S. 508, 519; Whitaker
v. McBride, 197 U. S. 510, 515; Marshall Dental Co. v.
Iowa, 226 U. S. 460, 462. In none of these cases were the
parties necessary for the determination of that. question
before the Court.
The laws of the United States alone control the disposition of title to its lands. The States are powerless to place

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

any limitation or restriction on that control. Wilcox v.
Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 516, 517; Gibson v.- Chouteau, 13
Wall. 92, 99; see Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v. United States,
supra, 88; United States v. Utah, supra, 75. The construction of grants by the United States is a federal not a
state question, Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, 669, 670;
French-Glenn Live Stock Co. w_Springer, 185 U. S. 47,
54; Chapman & Dewey Lumber Co. v. St. FrancisLevee
District, 232. U. S. 186, 196, and involves the consideration of state questions only insofar as it may be determined as a matter of federal law that the United States
has.impliedly adopted and assented to a state rule of construction as applicable to its conveyances. See Oklahoma
v. Texas, supra, 594, 595; Utah Power & Light Co. v.
United States, 243 U. S. 389, 404. In construing a conveyance by the United States of land within a State, the
settled and reasonable rule of construction of the State
affords an obvious guide in determining what impliedly
passes to the grantee as an incident to land expressly
granted. But no such question is presented here, for there
is no basis for implying any intention to convey title to
the State.
The State, in making its present contention, does not
claim as a grantee designated or named in any grant of the
United States. It points to no rule ever recognized or
declared by the courts of the State that a grant to individual upland proprietors impliedly grants to the State
the adjacent land under water.' The only support for
its claim is the statute of 1921, adopted subsequent to
*By § 63-102, Oregon Code Annotated, 1930, enacted in 1862, and
by judicial decision, Micelli v. Andrus, 61 Ore. 78, 85, conveyances of
upland bounded upon non-navigable streams carry to the middle or
thread of the stream.

UNITED STATES v. OREGON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

every grant of the United States involved in the present
case. The case is not one of the reasonable construction
of grants of the United States, but the attempted forfeiture to the State by legislative fiat of lands which, so far
as they have not passed to the individual upland proprietors, remain the property of the United States. Such
action by the State can no more affect the title of the
United States than can the similar legislative pronouncements that streams within a State are navigable which this
Court has found to be non-navigable. See Oklahomc v.
Texas, supra; United States v. Utah, supra, 75; United
States v. Holt State Bank, supra, 55, 56.
The Master correctly found that there were no facts
or circumstances to establish, as matter of fact, any intent
on the part of the United States to abandon or surrender
its claim to any part of the area within the meander line.
We accordingly accept the findings and determination of
the Special Master, to which the Government does not
except, as to the title and interest of the State of Oregon in Mud Lake and in Division B of the Narrows, and
conclude that the State has no right, title or interest in
any part of the remainder of the area, which is superior
to that of the United States. The United States is entitled to a decree in conformity with this opinion, and
also with the decree recommended by the Special Master
so far as it is not inconsistent with this opinion, quieting
its title and possession, as against the State of Oregon, to
such remaining area within the meander line boundary
of tha five divisions.
The parties, or either of them, if so advised, may, within
thirty days, submit the form of decree to carry this opinion into effect, failing which the Court will prepare and
enter the decree.
It is so ordered.

