490

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

295 U. S.

ESCOE v. ZERBST, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THECIRCUIT COURT OFAPPEALS FOR THE
TENTH" CIRCUIT.

No. 773. Argued May 6, 1935.--Decided May 20, 1935.
1. The federal District Court, acting on the request of a probation
officer based on informati6n reepi-ed by him concerning a probationer's delinquency, is without power to revoke 'a suspension of
sentence and commit th! probationer to prison to serve the sentence, where the piobationer was not "taken before the court"
and afforded san opportunity to be heard in answer to the charges.
Act of March 4, 1925, c. 521, § 2, as amended. P. 492.
2. This privilege of the probationer is not a right guaranteed by the
Constitution. but is based upon the Act of- Congress governing the
procedure in such cases. P. 492.
3. The requirement of the Act of March 4, 1925, c. 521, § 2. that,
upon -the arrest of a probationer,. he "shall forthwith be taken
before the court," is mandatory in meaning 9s well as in form.
P. 494.
4. Habeas corpus is a proper remedy to obtain the release of a probationer who has been committed without an opporttinity to be
heard. His discharge will be without prejudice to his arrest and
commitment as a result of subsequent proceedings conforming to
the statute. P. 494.
5. The contention that the district judge, in revoking probation on an
ex parte showing in this case, has plainly indicated how his discretion will be exercised if a hearing is granted, is a no, sequitur and
affords no basis for denial of a hearing. P. 494.
,74 F. (2d) 924, rei:ersed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 704, to-review a judgment affirming an order of the District Court dismissing an application for a writ of habeas corpus.
Mr. Seth W. Richardsonsubmitted for petitioner.
Mr. Sanford Bates, with whom Solicitor Qjeeral Reed
was on the brief, for respondent.

ESCOE v. ZERBST.
490

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTcE.CARDOZO

delivered theopinion of the Court.

Petitioner was convicted of a crime in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas after
indictment and a plea of guilty. He was sentenced, October 10, 1932, to imprisonment for four and a half, years
in the Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas. On the
same day the sentence was suspended for five years upon
cornditions of probation, and the defendant (the petitioner
in'this court) was placed in charge of the District Probation Officer for that length of time. One of the conditions
was that the probationer would "refrain from the violation
of any state or federal penal law. Another was that'he
would live "a clean, honest and temperate life."
In July, 1933, information-was conveyed to the District
Probation Officer that petitioner had broken these conditions. In a letter written by his father he was charged
with drunkenness and the forgery of two, checks. Theofficei made r6port of this information to the District
Judge and requested a revocation of the order for suspension of sentence. On July 29, 1933, the District Judge
issued a mandate for a warrant of arrest. On August 5,
hesigned an order that the suspension be revoked and
that the defendant be committed to prison to serve the
stated term. Upon arrest under the warrant the defendant was not brought by his custodian before-any court or
j udge. He was transported at once to the 'penitentiary
at Leavenworth, Kansas, and.there imprisoned.- Later, in
December, 1933,,he Wed a petitidn fof a writ of habeas
corpus in the United States District Court for the District
of Kansas, contending that his imprisonment -wasunlaw-ful for the reason that probation had been erided without
the opportunity for a hearing made necessary by statute.'
The District Judge dismissed the application fot the writ,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

affirmed his order. 74 F. (2d) 924. A writ of certiorari
issued from this court.
Upon the suspension of sentence in October, 1932, the
applicable statute made provision as follows:
"At any time within the probation period the probation officer may arrest the probationer without a warrant,
or the court may issue a warrant for his arrest. Thereupon such probationer shall forthwith be taken before
the court. At any time after the probation period, but
within the maximum period for which the defendant
might originally have been sentenced, the court may issue
a warrant and cause the defendant to be arrested and
brought before the court. Thereupon the court may revoke the probation or the suspension of sentence, and may
impose any sentence which might originally have been
imposed." Act of March 4, 1925, c. 521, § 2, 43 Stat.
1260; 18 U. S. C. § 725.
An amendment of the statute in June, 1933 (Act of June
16, 1933, c. 97, 48 Stat. 256; 18 U. S. C. Supp. .725) permits the execution of the warrant by a United States marshal as well as by a probation officer, but does not change
the procedure otherwise. Under the statute as amended
as well as in its original form, the probationer "shall
forthwith be thken before the court." This mandate was
disobeyed. The probationer, instead of being brought before the court which had imposed the sentence, was taker
to a prison beyond the territorial limits of that court and
kept there in confinement without the opportunity for a
hearing. For this denial of a legal privilege the commitment may not stand.
In thus holding we do not accept the petitioner's contention that the privilege has a basis in the Constitution,
apart from any statute. Probation or suspension of sentence comes as an act of grace to one convicted of a crime,
-and may be coupled with such conditions in respect of

ESCOE v. ZERBST.
490

Opinion of the Court..

its duration as Congress may impose. Burns v. United
States, 287 U. S. 216. But the power of the lawmakers to
dispense with notice or a hearing as part of the procedure
of probation does not mean that a like dispensing power,
in opposition to the will of Congress, has been confided
to the courts. The privilege is no less real because its
source is in the statute rather than in the Fifth Amendment. If the statement of the Congress that the probationer shall be brought before the court is command and.
not advice, it defines and conditions power. French v.
Edwards, 13 Wall. 506, 511. The revocation is invalid

unless the command has been obeyed.
We find in this statute -more than directory words of
caution, leaving power unaffected. This is so if we consider the words alone, putting aside for the moment the
ends and aims to be achieved. The defendant "shall" be

dealt with in a stated way; it is the language of command,
a test significant, though not controlling. Richbourg
Motor Co. v. United States, 281'U. S. 528, 534. Doubt,
however, is dispelled when we pass from the words alone
to a view of ends and aims. Clearly the end and aim of
an appearance before the court must be to enable- an
accused probationer to explain away the accusation. The
charge against him may have been inspired by rmnor or
mistake or even downright malice. He -shall have a.
chance to say his say before the word of his'pursuers is
received to his undoing. This does not mean that he may
insist upon a trial in any strict or formal sense. Burns v.
United States, supra, at pp. 222, 223. It does mean that
there shall be an inquiry so fitted in its range to the needs
of the occasion as to justifythe conclusion that discretion
has not been abused by the failure of the inquisitor to
carry the probe.deeper. Burns v. United States, supra.
That much is necessary, or so the Congress must have
thought, to protect the individual against malice or op-"

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

pression. Almost equally it is necessary, if we read aright
the thoughtof Congress, for the good of the probation
system with all its hopes of social betterment.
If these are the ends to be promoted by bringing the
probationer into the presence of his judge, the Act is seen
at once to be mandatory in meaning as well as mandatory
in form. Statutes are not directory when to put them in
that category would result in serious impairment of the
public or the private interests that they Were intended to
protect. French v. Edwards, supra; Lyon v. Alley, 130
U. S. 177, 185; Erhardt v. Schroeder, 155 U. S. 124, 128,
130. Such is the situation, here. 'When a hearing is
allowed but there is error in conducting it or in limiting
its scope, the remedy is by appeal. When an opportunity
to be heard is denied altogether, the ensuing mandate of
the court is void, and the prisoner confined thereunder
may have recourse to habeas corpus to put an end to the
restraint. It is beside the point to argue, as the Government does, that in this case a hearing, if given, is likely to
be futile because the judge has made it plain how his
discretion will be exercised in that already he has canceled
the suspension on the strength of an ex parte showing.
The non sequitur is obvious. The judge is without the
light whereby -his discretion must be guided until a hearing, however -summary, has been given the supposed
offender. Cf. Snyder v. Massachusetts,291 U. S. 97, 116.
"Judgment ceases to be judicial if there is condemnation
in advance of trial.
We hold that the attempted revocation is invalid for
defect of power, and that, the suspension still continuing,
the' petitioner is entitled to be discharged from his
confinement.
The discharge is without prejudice to his arrest and
commitment as a result of subsequent proceedings conforming to the statute.

SCHECHTER CORP. v. UNITED STATES:
490

495

Syllabus.

The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with
instructions that the writ must be sustained and the
prisoner discharged.
Reversed.
A, L. A. SCHECHTER POULTRY CORP. ET AL. V.

'UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 854.

Argued May 2, 3, 1935.-Decided May 27, 1935.

-1. Extraordinary conditions, such as an'economic crisis, may call for
extraordinary remedies, but they can not create or enlarge constitutional power. P. 528.
2. Congress is not permitted by the Constituti6n to abdicate, or to
transfer to others, the essential legislative functions" with which
it is vested. Art, I, § 1; Art. I, § 8, par. 18. PanamaRefining Co.
v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388. P. 529.
3. Congress may leave to selected instrumentalities the making of
subordinate rules within prescribed limits, and the determination
of facts to which the policy, as declared by Congress, is to apply;
but it must itself lay down the policies and establish standards.
P. 530.
4. The delegation of legislative power sought to be made to the
President by § 3 of the National Industrial Recovery Act of June
16, 1933, is unconstitutional (pp. 529 et seq.); and the Act is
also unconstitutional, as applied in this case, because it exceeds
the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce and invades
the power reserved exclusively to the States (pp. 542 et sq.).
5. Section 3 of the National Industrial Recovery Act provides that
"codes of fair competition," which shall be the "standards of- fair
competition" for the trades and industries to which they relate,
may be approved by the President upon application of repure sentative associations of the trades or industries to be affected, or
may be prescribed by him on his own motion. Their provisions
* Together with No. 864, United States v. A. L. 'A. Schechter
Poultzy Corp. et al. Certiorari to the Circuit Cdurt of Appeals for
the Second Circuit.

