DOLEMAN v. LEVINE.
216

Counsel for, Parties.

was intended to clarify, but not to change the law. See
Report of House Committee on Ways and Means, No. 2,
70th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 18; Report of Senate Committee
on Finance, No. 960, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 26; Report
of Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation, H. R.
Doc. 139, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 17, 18.
Affirmed.
DOLEMAN, ADMINISTRATOR, v. LEVINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 574. Argued April 4, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
Under the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act,
made applicable to the District 6f Columbia as a compensation law,
where several persons, as dependants or next of kin, aie entitled to
claim compensation under the Act, or damages under the District
of Columbia death statute, on account of the death of an employee
caused by the negligence of a stranger to the employment, an
election by one of them to take compensation under the Compensation Act does not operate to assign to the employer the cause of
action against the wrongdoer with the right to sue upon it in his
own name; but it subrogates the employer to the right that the
person so electing had to compel suit by the executor or administrator and to share in the recovery. Aetna Life Insurance Co. v.
Moses, 287 U. S. 530, distinguished. P. 228.
64 App. D. C. 25; 73 F. (2d) 842, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 294. U. S. 703, to review the affirmance of
a judgment sustaining a plea in abatement in an 'action under the Wrongful Death Act of the District of

3olumbi
Mr. Nathan A. Dobbins, with whom Mr. James C.

Waters, Jr., was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Wilson L. Townsend, with whom Messrs. Edward S.
Brashears and Albert F. Beasley were on the brief, for
respondent.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

MR. JusTicz SToNz delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted to resolve doubts as
to the construction of § 33 of the District of Columbia
Compensation Act (Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers
Compensation Act, c. 509, 44 Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C., §§ 901
et seq., made applicable to the District of Columbia by
Act of May 17, 1928, c. 612, 45 Stat. 600).
Doleman, petitioler's intestate, in the course of his
employment within the District, was struck by the automobile of respondent and received injuries which caused
his death. He left surviving him his widow, and, as his
heirs at law and next of kin, a brother and a dependent
father, who is his administrator. The widow elected to
receive compensation from the employer under te provisions of the Compensation Act. The father elected not
to receive compensation and brought the present suit as
administrator to recover for the death under the provisions of the Wrongful Death Act of the District. Code
of Law for the District of Columbia, Title 21, §§ 1-3. A
like suit, brought by the employer against the respondent"
is also pending. The Supreme Court of the District gave
judgment for the defendant, sustaining a plea in abatement which set up the pendency of the suit brought by the
employer and that the right to recover for the wrongful
death had been assigned to the employer by operation of
the provisions of the Compensation Act. The Court of
Appeals affirmed, 64 App. D. C. 25; 73 F. (2d) 842, relying in part on its construction of the relevant provisions
of § 33 of the Compensation Act and in part on our
decision in Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Moses, 287
U. S. 530.
The Compensation Act establishes a scheme for compensation of an injured employee by the employer, and for
the payment of benefits to a specified class of his dependents when the injury causes death. Where some person

DOLEMAN v. LEVINE.
221

223

Opinion of the Court.

other than the employer is liable for damages for the injury, compensation is governed by § 33' Section 33 (a)
, See. 33. (a) If. on account of a disability or death for which
compensation is payable under this Act the person entitled to such
compensation.determines that some person other than the employer is
liable in damages, he may elect, by giving notice to the deputy commissioner in such manner as the commission may provide, to receive
such compensation or to recover damages against such third person.
"(b) Acceptance of such compensation shall operate as an assignment to the employer of all right of the person entitled to compensation to recover damages against such- third person, whether or not
the person entitled to compensation has notified the deputy commissioner of his election.
"(c) The payment of such compensation into the fund established
in section 44 shall operate as an assignment to the employer of all
right of the legal representative of the deceased (hereinafter referred
to as 'representative') to recover damages against such third person,
whether or not the representative has notified the deputy commissioner of his election.
"(d) Such employer on account of such assignment may either
institute proceedings for the recovery of such damages or may compromise with such third person either without or after instituting
such proceeding.
"(e) Any amount recovered by such employer on account of such
assignment, whether or not as the result of a compromise, shall be
distributed as follows:
(1) The employer shall retain an amount equal- to(A) The expenses incurred by him in respect of such proceedings
or compromise (including a reasonable attorney's fee as determined
by the deputy commissioner).
(B) The cost of all benefits actually furnished by him to the employee under section 7.
.C) All amounts paid as compensation, and the present value of
all amounts payable as compensation, such present value to be computed in accordance with a schedule prepared by the commission, and
the amounts so computed to be retained by the employer' as a trust
fund to pay such compensation as it becomes due and to pay any
sum, in excess of such compensation, to -the person entitled to compensation or to the representative; and
(2) The employer shall pay any excess to the person entitled to
compensation or to the representative. . ."

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

authorizes "the person entitled to such compensation" to
elect to receive compensation or to recover damages
"against such third person," and § 33 (b) provides that
acceptance of such compensation "shall operate as an assignment to the employer of all right of the person entitled
to compensation to recover damages against such third
person."
In Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Moses, supra,the widow
of an employee whb was killed in the course of his employment, and who was also his administratrix and the
sole beneficiary under both the Compensation and the
Wrongful Death Acts, elected to receive compensation.
It was conceded that the widow, before her election, was
alone entitled to the benefit of the Wrongful Death Act,
and the question was who, in consequence of her election,
was the proper plaintiff to bring the action. This Court
held, construing § 33 (a) and (b), that the Compensation
Act, called into action by her election, operated to transfer to the employer all her right of recovery under the
Wrongful Death Act. Since the transfer of her entire
interest was effected by § 33 (b), which in terms declared
that acceptance of compensation by the dependent "shall
operate as an assignment," we thought that a complete
and unqualified transfer was intended, which would authorize the employer to maintain the suit in his own
name, without necessity of suing in the name of the
administratrix as in the case of an assignment of a chose
in action at common law.
Similarly, § 33 (c) provides in terms for the transfer to
the employer of "all right of the legal representative" of
the deceased employee to recover for the wrongful death,
where the deputy commissioner for the compensation district determines that there is no person under the Compensation Act entitled to compensation, and the employer
makes the payment of $1,000 irto the special compensation fund as prescribed by § 44.

DOLEMAN v. LEVINE.
221

Opinfon of the Court.

A different question is presented where the dependent
who has elected to receive compensation is entitled to
only a partial interest in the amount to be recovered for
the death. Such is the case here. For the widow alone
has elected to take compensation, and under the Wrongful Death Act, § 3, the proceeds of -the recovery are required to be distributed among the next of kin, which
includes both the widow and the father, where the decedent leaves no surviving child. Title 29, D. C. Code,
§§ 284, 285, 288.
The right of the employer to reimbursement from the
recovery is derived from his subrogation, under § 33 (b)
of the Compensation Act, to the rights of the dependent
widow to.whom he is bound to pay compensation. Apart
from statute, the indemnitor's right by subrogation to
stand in the place of his indemnitee, who is entitled to a
part only of the proceeds of a single cause of action, does
not carry with it any authority to maintain the action, in
his own name. See Mandeville v. Welch; 5 Wheat. 277,
286; Shankland v. Washington, 5 Pet. 390; Vinal v. West
Virginia Oil & Oil Land Co., 110 U. S. 215. He is in the
position of a partial assignee, of the chose in action, and
as such is entitled to his share of the proceeds of the
action when recovered and may secure their recovery by
resort to equity, in a suit joining proper parties, to compel
action by the legal owner 'and appropriate distribution of
the proceeds. See Peugh v. Porter, 112 U. S. 737, 742;
Fourth.StreetBank v. Yardley, 165 U. S. 634, 644; Aetna
Life Insurance Co. v. Moses, supra,542; n. 3.
Section 33 (b) purports only to assign to the employer
"all right of the person entitled to conpensation to recover damages against such third person.". It operates
to transfer to the employer only such rights as the dependent has. We do not doubt that this section, -interpreted in the light of the indemnitor's common law right
of subrogation, confirms that right and is sufficient to give

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the employer as indemnity all the rights which the dependents electing to receive compensation otherivise
would have to share in the benefits of the Wrongful
Death Act. If they are entitled to the whole recovery,
the employer may maintain the suit as in Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Moses, supra. If their interest is less
than" the whole, the employer is entitled to receive their
share in the proceeds of recovery and, if necessary, by
appropriate proceedings to compel the administrator to
bring.the suit and account for its proceeds. But the section does not purport to split the cause of action. A
purpose to do violence to the firmly grounded tradition
of the unity of a cause of action at law, by casting on
the defendant the burden of defending two suits, is hardly
to be implied. See Mandeville v. Welch, supra.
Nor, on the other hand, does the language of the section
admit of a construction which would operate to transfer
rights in the chose in action which the dependent electing
to receive compensation did not have, or to confer upon
the employer the benefit of any part of the proceeds of the
recovery for wrongful dbath which the dependent receiving compensation could not have demanded. I1 § 33 (d)
and (e) refer, as the court below thought, to an assignment
to the employer in the circumstances mentioned in § 33
(b) as well as in § 33 (c), they do not support any construction of § 33 (b) different from that already indicated. Section 33 (d) authorizes the employer "on account of such assignment," to compromise the claim for
damages or to institute proceedings upon it. Its provisions are permissive only. It would plainly sanction a
compromise or a suit by the employer in the case where
the injury did not result in death or where, as in Aetna
Life Insurance Co. v. Moses, supra, the entire interest in
the right to recover is vested in the employer by operation
of § 33 (b). But in a case like the present, where the right
assigned to the employer is to receive a part only of the

DOLEMAN v. LEVINE.
221

Opinion of the Court.

proceeds of recovery for the wrongful death, the language
falls short of conferring upon him authority to compromise
or sue upon claims which "such assignment" does not
operate to transfer. This conclusion is supported, if not
compelled, by the clause of § 33 (a), which authorizes a
dependent 2 of the deceased employee to elect whether to
receive compensation or to recover damages against a
third person, and by § 33 (e), which gives to the employer
as indemnity the full benefit of "any amount recovered"
by him, before turning over the balance to the personal
representative of the deceased. There may be next of kin
of the decedent entitled to share in the recovery for
wrongful death who are not entitled to compensation, and
others who elect, as provided in § 33 (a) to take their
share of the recovery for wrongful death instead of compensation. A construction of § 33 which would require
the use of their shares to indemnify the employer, for
payments to others who have elected to receive compensation, is not to be favored in the absence of language
plainly requiring it.
It is true that in tHe case where the injury causes the
death of an employee having no depehdents, and the employer pays $1,000 into the special compensation fund as
required by § 44, the right of the legal representative to
recover for the wrongful death is in terms assigned by
§ 33 (c) to the employer who is authorized by § 33 (e)
to indemnify himself from the proceeds of recovery.
'Section 33 (a) gives the election to "the person entitled to such
compensation," and makes no express provision for the case where
there is more than one dependent. Since the statute preserves to
"the" dependent the right of election to recover damages against
the third person, and does not in terms give one dependent the right
to elect for all, it must be deemed to give each dependent the right of
election independently of the others, and the phrase "the person
entitled to such compensation" must be taken to mean each or any

dependent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Whatever purpose may have inspired these provisions of
§ 33 (c),1 explicitly limited to the single case of the payment by the employer of the $1,000 into the special
fund, we can find in them no warrant for giving to § 33
(b) a construction which its language does not admit and
which would authorize the employer to indemnify himself
for payments to dependents, not necessarily limited to
$1,000, at the expense of the next of kin who receive no
benefit of the compensation payments.
We conclude that where the employer is given anything to recover by a' suit brought directly against the
wrongdoer, it is the full recovery to which the injured
employee or his personal representative would be entitled. See Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Moses, supra,540.
But where the right of the dependent, to which the employer is subrogated by § 33 (b), is only to a share of the
proceeds of the recovery, the employer is not authorized
to maintain the action for wrongful death. As statutory
assignee of the rights of the dependent receiving coinpensation, he acquires only the rights of his assignor to
compel the executor or administrator, by appropriate proceedings, to maintain the suit and to share in the proceeds of the recovery.
'It is to be noted that in the case of assignments under § 33 (c)
indemnity to the employer cannot be at the expense of the dependents of the deceased.
'A like construction has been given to the similar, but not identical, compensation statute of New York. If the persons receiving
compensation do not include all of the next of kin who are beneficiaries under the Wrongful Death Act, the employer or insurance carrier must prosecute his claim to share in the proceeds through the
administrator as statutory trustee, and may compromise or release
his own interest, but no other. U. S. Fidelity & Gudranty Co. v.
Graham & Norton Co., 254 N. Y. 50, 53; 171 N. E. 903; Zirpola v.
Casselman, Inc., 237 N. Y. 367, 375; 143 N. E. 222. But if all of
the next of kin entitled to receive the benefit of the recovery for

wrongful death elect to reive compensation, the employer or insur-

FEDERAL LAND BANK v. PRIDDY.
221

229

Syllabus.

While it seems- beyond the resources of judicial ingenuity to construe the statute so as to give it a wholly
consistent and harmonious operation, we think the construction which we adopt conforms to its language and
to the principles of the common law, in the light of which
it must be interpreted. It does not deny to the employer
subrogation to the rights of those dependents receiving
compensation to share in the recovery for wrongful
death, but it leaves undisturbed the rights of the next
of kin who, as § 33 (a) permits, elect to receive the benefits of the Wrongful Death Act rather than compensation.
Reversed..

FEDERAL LAND BANK OF ST. LOUIS v. PRIDDY,

CIRCUIT JUDGE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 594. Argued April 5, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. Rulings by a State court that a Federal Land Bank is a foreign
corporation within 'the meaning of the State's attachment statute
and that an attachment of its pfoperty was authorized by the
state law, present local questions not opento review by this Court.
P. 231.
2. Federal Land Banks are federal instrumentalities, with a governmental functi6n;' and the extent to which they-are amenable to
judicial process is a question of congressional intent. P. 231.
3. Section 4 of the Federal Farm Loan Act provides that Federal
Land Banks "shall have power ... to sue and be sued ... as
fully as natural persons "; they are given some of the characteristics of private business corporations, and the remedies afforded
to their creditors by the Act are the same that it affords to creditors of Joint Stock Banks, which are privately owned corporations,
organized for profit to their stockholders. Furthermore, the Act
ance carrier may maintain the action against the wrongdoer. See
Zirpola v. Casselman, Inc., supra, 373; Travelers Insurance Co. v..
Padula Co., 224 N. Y. 397; 121 N. E. 348.

