OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

APEAT from a judgment of the District Court of three
judges dismissing the bill in a suit to set aside two orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Robert Wilkins Thompson, with whom Messrs.
Jules Henri Tallichet and T. D. Gresham were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. Nelson Thomas, with whom Solictor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and Messrs. Elmer
B. Collins and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief,
for the United States et al.
PER CURIAM.

This is a suit to restrain the enforcement of two orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made July 24,
1933, and December 11, 1933, respectively, relating to
rates for the transportation of horses and mules, in carloads, in southwestern territory. 195 I. C. C. 417. Upon
the hearing by the District Court, composed of three
judges, the application for an injunction was denied and
the amended bill of complaint was dismissed.
This Court, upon an examination of the record, agrees
with the conclusion of the District Court that the orders
in question were sustained by findings of the Commission
acting within its statutory authority and that these findings were adequately supported by evidence. The decree
is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. KASSIN v. MULLIGAN,
U. S. MARSHAL, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 569.

FOR THE

Argued April 2, 1935.-Decided May 13,; 1935.

1. The right of the defendant to a hearing before removal from one

district to. another for trial (R. S., § 1014) is not a constitutional
right but one given by statute. P. 400.

U. S. EX REL. KASSIN v. MULLIGAN.
396

Opinion of the Court.

2. In a removal proceeding inder § 1014, the indictment, though not,
strictly speaking, evidence, is enough to entitle the Government to
removal, in the absence of evidence requiring a flndiqg that the
prosecution is groundless. P. 400.
3. In a removal proceeding under R. S., § 1014, the defendant has
the right to introduce evidence in opposition to the showing against
him, and to have that evidence considered by the commissioner; but
the commissioner is without power to rule on disputed questions of
law, whethewthey relate to the sufficiency of the indictment or the
validity of the statute on which the charge is based, and he may
not decide controverted or doubtful issues of fact. P. 401.
4. Revised Statutes, § 1014, is to be construed favorably to the
Government's applications. P. 401.
5. In a removal proceeding under that section, arbitrary or capricious
appraisal of evidence by the commissioner, or disregard by him of
facts indubitably established by the evidence, is tantamount to a
rejection of competent evidence and is in legal effect a denial of
the right to be heard before removal. P. 402.
6. In habeas corpus to review a removal order made under § 1014,
the District Court, and the Circuit Courtof Appeals on appeal, are
called upon to examine the evidence taken before the commissioner"
and to decide whether it was sufficient to require a finding that
there was no substantial ground for bringing-the petitioner to trial
on any charge specified in the indictment. P. 402.
7. Reception by the commissioner of incompetent evidence introduced
by the Government to impeach witnesses for the defendant, held
not a groundIn this case for setting the commitment aside. P. 402.
73 F. (2d) 274, affirmed.

CF
IoR, 294 U. S. 699, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the District Court dismissinga writ of habeas
corpus.
Mr. David P. Siegel for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General MacLean, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Harry S. Ridgely and
W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTmm BU-TLER delivered the opinion of fie Court.
Petitioner by writ of habeas corpus in the district coii't
for southern New York sought to test the validity of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
]pinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

commitment by a United States commissioner in proceed-.
ings for removal under R. S., § 1014, 18 U. S. C., § 591.
After hearing upon the transcript of the proceedings before the commissioner, the district court dismissed the
writ. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 73 F.
(2d) 274. The questions presented are: Whether, as
the Circuit Court of Appeals held, review of the commissioner's decision ends when the court is assured that
he has honestly considered all the evidence presented to
him. Is the evidence sufficient to warrant petitioner's
removal? Should the commissioner's findings be set aside
for error in the admission of evidence?
Petitioner and six others were indicted in the southern
district of Florida for conspiracy, 18 U. S. C., § 88, to
misapply, and for the misapplication of, funds of a bank
in violation of 12 U. S. C., § 592. Overt acts alleged
against him are that, under the name of Arthur Starke,
he registered at a Jacksonville Beach hotel and rented a
safe deposit box at a St. Augustine bank. He was found
in the southern district of New York, and complaint was
made to a commissioner in that district praying his arrest
and removal for trial. He was brought before the commissioner and, at the hearing that followed, the United
States produced a certified copy of the indictment and
called witnesses whose testimony tended to prove that
petitioner committed the overt acts and that on one
occasion when he visited the safe deposit box a codefendant, Goldberg, was with him.
Petitioner 'admitted the overt acts. But he said: He
had no connection with the conspiracy and did not know
any of the persons accused. He went to Florida to engage
in business with one Finberg, who died before the hearing,
and for that purpose brought a large sum of money for the
safe-keeping of which he hired the box. . He assumed the
false name at Finberg's suggestion in order to keep secret
their connection. HQ had never been convicted of crime.

U. S. Ex
396

E;. KASSIN v. MULLIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

It was stipulated that, if called as witnesses, certain persons acquainted with petitioner would testify that his
reputation for honesty and veracity was excellent. He
introduced depositions of five persons implicated, three
of whom were codefendants. They testified that they did
not know petitioner or have any knowledge of his participation in the offenses charged. Two of them, professing
to know all who were involved, definitely asserted that
petitioner was not one of them. The other three did not
know all the conspirators. Goldberg refused to depose;
the other two defendants did not testify. The government called a special agent of the Department- of Justice
as a witness in rebuttal. The commissioner, notwithstanding objection that it was incompetent, received his testimony to the effect that both before and after giving their
depositions two of the, deponents, who had sworn that
they did not know petitioner, had said that they did know
him and that he had participated in the crimes. The commissioner found that there was probable cause to believe
that petitioner had committed the offenses and held him
to await the action of the district judge.
Removal from one federal district to another under
§ 1014* is unlike extradition or interstate rendition, in
* For any crime or offense against the United States, the offender
may, by any justice or judge of the United States, or by any United
States commissioner, or by any chancellor, judge of a supreme or
superior court, chief or first judge of common pleas, mayor of a city,
justice of the peace, or other magistrate, of any State where he may
be found, and agreeably to the usual mode of process against offenders in such State, and at the exl~ense of the United States, be arrested
and imprisoned, or bailed, as the case may be, for trial before such
court of the United States as by law has cognizance of the offense.
Copies of the process shall be returned as speedily as may be into
the clerk's office of such covurt, together with the recognizances of the
witnesses for their appearaiice to testify in the case. Where any
offender or witness is committed in any district other than that where
the offense is to be tried, it shall be the duty of the judge of the dis-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

that the protection owed by a sovereign to those within
its territory is not involved. Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S.
73, 82-83. A person accused by indictment and found
within the district where he is wanted is not entitled" to
a hearing in advance of trial. Beavers v. Henkel, supra,
84. The statute gives such a right to one otherwise
accused. There is no constitutional right to a hearing in
advance of removal. Undoubtedly, Congress has power
to direct that accused persons be taken, immediately and
without hearing, before the court for trial. Hughes v.
Gault, 271 U. S. 142, 149, 152. But, as otherwise hardship and injustice might result, it has given, a right to
examination and hearing. Beavers v. Henkel, supra, 83.
Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20, 29. Hughes v. Gault,
supra. In removal proceedings, the case of an indicted
person is to be distinguished from that of one accused
only by complaint filed with the commissioner. Identity
being shown or admitted, the indictment without more
prima facie requires the order of removal. Greene v.
HenkeI, 183 U. S. 249, 262. Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S.
1, 10-12. Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 84. Haas v.
Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 481. Evidence is required to
support the allegations of the complaint.
It may not with perfect accuracy be said, as in some
removal decisions it has been said or implied, that the
indictment is evidence of the facts that it alleges. But it
fulfills the constitutional requirement (Amendment V),
establishes probable cause (Amendment IV) and is itself
authority to bring the accused to trial. In the absence of
evidence requiring a finding that there is no ground for
the prosecution, the government is entitled to an order for
trict where such offender or witness is imprisoned, seasonably to issue,
and of the marshal to execute, a warrant for his removal to the district wherF the trial is to be had.

U. S. EX REL. KASSIN v. MULLIGAN.
396

Opinion of the Court.

removal. Beavers v. Haubert, 198 U. S. 77, 90. Price v.
Henkel, 216 U. S. 488, 493. Cf. South. Carolinav. Bailey,
289 U. S. 412, 420. The indictment is not conclusive, for
under § 1014, the petitioner has the right to introduce
evidence in opposition to the showing made against him.
Tinsley v. Treat, supra, 32. But as the order of removal
adjudges nothing affecting the merits of the case and
amounts to no more than a finding that the accused may
be brought to trial, the commissioner is without power to
rule on disputed questions of law whether they relate to
the sufficiency of the indictment or the validity of the
statute on which the charge is based. Henry v. Henkel,
235 U. S. 219, 229. Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S. 339,
344-345. Morse v. United States, 267 U. S. 80, 83. And
for like reasons he may not decide controverted or doubtful issues of fact. Rodman v. Pothier,264 U. S. 399, 402.
In view of the delays and obstructions that it is possible
for persons accused to obtain and interpose by misuse of
the right to be heard before removal (cf. Salinger v.
Loisel, 265 U. S. 224, 238), § 1014 is to be construed quite
favorably to the government's applications. Benson v.
Henkel, supra, 15. Haas v. Henkel, supra, 475.
The application for the writ of habeas corpus alleges
that the evidence adduced by petitioner overwhelmingly
established his innocence,* completely destroyed the presumption of probable cause emanating from the indictment and established the lack of probable cause to believe him guilty. 'By reference, it includes a transcript of
the evidence and asserts that the finding and order of
the commissioner are contrary to law. Respondent's return puts in issue these allegations. The question so
raised is whether petitioner is unlawfully &deprivedof his
liberty. He was entitled to introduce evidence to prove
the absence of probable cause and to have the commis-

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

sioner judicially consider it. We have held that exclusion of competent evidence is a denial of right given by
§ 1014. Tinsley v. Treat, supra. Equally repugnant to
the statute is refusal to consider evidence in favor of the
accused. Arbitrary or capricious appraisal of evidence
or disregard of facts indubitably established is in legal
effect failure to consider, the equivalent of the exclusion
that we have condemned, and denial of the right to be
heard before removal.
The lower courts were successively called on to decide
on the merits of petitioner's claim. A memorandum
opinion of the district court shows that it considered the
evidence in detail and found that the commissioner's
decision would have been amply justified even if he had
not admitted the impeaching testimony introduced by the
government in rebuttal. The Circuit Court of Appeals
following its earlier decision, United States v. Pulver,
54 F. (2d) 261, declined to examine the evidence upon
the ground that "our review of his [the commissioner's]
decision ends as soon as we are assured that he has
,,honestly considered all the evidence presented to him.
No matter how flagrantly mistaken he may be in the
result, a court will go no further." We disapprove that
declaration. By the appeal that court was called on to
examine the evidence and to decide whether it was sufficient to require a finding that there was no substantial
ground for bringing the petitioner to trial on any charge
specified in the indictment.
We find that the evidence fails by far to measure up
to that standard, and approve the decision of the district
court. The lower courts rightly held that the admission
of the rebuttal testimony of which petitioner complains
does not require that the commitment be set aside.
Affirmed.

