40

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U. S.

abuse of discretion. But that finding is without support
inthe record.
The court below erred in not directing dismissal of the
bills of complaint as failing to state a cause of action in
equity. The appointment of receivers, in the circumstances, was an abuse of discretion which should have
been promptly set aside on the applications of the petitioner. The decrees below will be reversed and the cause
remanded with directions to the district court to dismiss
the bills and discharge the receivers.
Reversed.
NEBRASKA v. WYOMING.
No. 16, original. Motion to dismiss submitted January 21, 1935.Argued March 13, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.
1. Upon motion to dismiss a bill of complaint in an original proceeding brought in this Court by Nebraska against Wyoming for
the equitable apportionment, as between the two States, of the
waters of the North Platte River, and for an injunction, held:
(1) The State of Colorado, against whom the, complainant
. alleges no wrongful act and aski no relief, is not an indispensable
party to the proceeding, even though the river rises and drains a
large area in that State. P. 43.
(2) The.Secretary of the Interior, whose rights as an appropriator in Wyoming; in connection with projects authorized by
the Reclamation Act, are subject to the law of that State, will be
bound by an adjudication of the State's rights, and is not an
indispensable party. P. 43.
(3) The allegations of the bill are not vague and indefinite, but
state a caute of action in equity entitling the complainant to the
relief prayed. P. 44.
2. A contention 'that the complainant is chargeable with such a
failure to do equity as requires a dismissal of the bill, examined
and rejected: P. 44.
Motion denied.

BILL OF COMPLAINT in an original proceeding brought
by Nebraska against Wyoming to have determined the

NEBRASKA v. WYOMING.
40

Opinion of the Court.

rights of the two States in the waters of the North Platte
River. The defendant State filed a motion to dismiss.
Mr. Ray E. Lee, Attorney General of Wyoming, with
whom Mr. William C. Snow, Assistant Attorney General,
and Mr. Thomas F. Shea, Deputy Attorney General, were
on the brief, for defendant in support of the motion to
dismiss.
Mr. Paul F. Good, with whom Mr. Win. H. Wright,
Attorney General of Nebraska, and Mr. C. G. Perry were
on the brief, for plaintiff in opposition to the motion to
dismiss.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Nebraska, by leave of court, has filed a bill of complaint
against Wyoming praying ascertainment of the equitable
apportionment, as between the two States, of the waters
of the North Platte River, and a decree to enforce compliance with the findings in that behalf. Wyoming has
presented a motion to dismiss.
The allegations of the bili, in summary, are: Theriver,
a non-navigable stream, has its source in Colorado, enters
and traverses Wyoming, crosses the state line into Nebraska and in that State unites with the Soutlh Platte to
form thq Platte'River, which flows- from the junction
through Nebraska to, the Missouri River, the eastern
boundary of the State. NebraSka's citizens need irrigation water from the Platte above GrandIsland and the
North Platte; -appropriation of water from these streams
by her citizens began in 1882, continues to the present
time, and is of large extent. Plaintiff and defendant alike
recognize by their laws the doctrine that the waters of
streams may be appropriated for' beneficial use and that
he whose appropriation is prior, in time has the superior

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

right. Appropriations of the waters of the North Platte
have been made in both states. The Reclamation Act of
the United States' authorized the construction of reservoirs in Wyoming for storage of water to be used for irrigation, and the S:cretary of the Interior, pursuant to the
Act, applied to the state engineer of Wyoming and obtained from him permission to construct in that state reservoirs for impounding the waters of the North Platte,
and to appropriate waters, and was awarded a priority
date. Reservoirs of large capacity have accordingly been
constructed and operated by the United States, but solely
under and subject to the irrigation and appropriation laws
of Wyoming. Projects completed under the Reclamation
Act are also supplied with water withdrawn from the direct flow of the North Platte, and the Bureau of Reclaination of the Department of the -Interior of the United
States has, pursuant to the Warren Act,' contracted with
irrigation projects having earlier priorities to supplement
the direct flow rights of such projects by the addition of
waters stored in its reservoirs. All of the acts of the
Reclamation Bureau in operating the reservoirs so as to
impound and release waters of the river are subject to th;
authority of Wyoming; and she and her officers are under
the duty to administer these waters fairly and impartially,
and to control appropriators whose rights arise under the
law of Wyoming from encroaching upon the rights of Nebraska appropriators by diminishing the flow so that the
latter are unable to obtain the waters embraced within
their appropriations. This duty Wyoming officials have
neglected and disregarded, in spite of Nebraska's protests;
and have permitted the diversion 6f waters belonging to
Nebraska's appropriators to the great loss and damage of
'June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388. U. S. C. Tit. 43, §§ 372, °73,
381; 383, 391, 392, 411, 416, 419, 421, 431, 432, 434, 439, 461, 476,
491, 498.
' Feb. 21, 1911, c. 141, 36 Stat. 925; U. S. C. Tit. 43, §§ 523-525.

NEBRASKA v. WYOMING.
40

Opinion of the Court.

her citizens. The priorities of the appropriators in each
state, including the Bureau of Reclamation, can be ascertained, and investigation discloses that the defendant has
allotted the Bureau too early a date with respect to 'a proposed project and unless restrained Wyoming will permit
appropriation'in aid thereof.
The motion to dismiss advances three pr6positions of
law.
1. Colorado i.s said to be An indispensable party, because the bill discloses that the North Platte rises in that
state and drains a considerable area. tfierein. The con'tention is without merit. Nebraska asserts no wrongful
act of Colorado. and .prays no relief against her. We
need not determine whether Col orado would be a proper
party, or whether at a later stage of the cause. pleadings
or proofs may disclose a necessity to bring her into the
suit. It suffices to say that upon the face of the bill she
is not a necessary party to the dispute between Nebraska
and Wyoming concerning the respective priorities and
rights of their citizens in the waters of the North Platte
River.
2.' The motion asserts that the Secretary of the Interior
is an indispensable party. The bill alleges, and we know
as matter of law,3 'that the Secretary and his agents, acting by authority of the Reclamation Act and supplementary legislation, must obtain permits and priorities,
for the use of water from the State of Wyoming in the
same manner as a private appropriator or an irrigation
district formed under the state law. His rights can rise
no highef- than those of Wyoming, and an adjudication
of the defendant's rights will necessarily bind him. Wyoming. will stand in judgment for him as for any other
appropriator in that state. He is not a necessary party.
"Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093. § 8, 32 Stat. 390; U. -S. C. Tit. 43,
§383.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

3. Wyoming says that the bill fails to state a cause of
action in equity and states no matter of equity entitling
Nebraska to the relief for which she asks. The printed
argument submitted on behalf of defendant asserts that
the complaint is vague and indefinite in its assertions
of fact and may be read as claiming the entire flow of
the river for use in Nebraska. We do not so read the
bill. The plaintiff asserts that appropriations have been
made in both states; that some in Wyoming are prior tq
others in Nebraska and vice versa, and prays an ascertainmient of the proper dates of all and relief in conformity with the facts found.
In oral argument the defendant called attention to
statements in the bill to the effect that certain of the
Nebraska water users whose rights the plaintiff desires
adjudicated, mhust take water from the Platte River which
is formed by the confluence of the North and the South
Platte rivers; that the latter rises in Colorado and flows
for a substantial distance through Nebraska before it
joins the North Platte, and the "bill fails to state anything
respecting the augmentation of the flow of the Platte
from the South Platte, which increment should be considered in ascertaining the amount of the waters contributed by ,the North Platte to which these users are
entitled as against users in Wyoming. It is said the'
plaintiff's failure to mention the contribution of the South
Platte or to signify a willingness that the water this
stream supplies to the Platte shall be taken into account,
is a failure to tender equity, and requires a dismissal of
the suit. We think the position is not well taken, The
bill states "that in the drainage basin of the said Platte
and'North Platte Rivers, between the said state line dividing the State of Nebraska from the State of Wyoming,
and the City of Grand Island, Nebraska, there are no
tributaries of the said North Platte and Platte Rivers
supplying any substantial amount of water...." If the

GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.

45

Syllabus.

40

fact be otherwise Wyoming may traverse this allegation
and thus make it an issue to be determined with proper
regard to such proofs as may be produced respecting the
supply from the South Platte.
We think no sufficient ground appears for dismissing
the bill.
The motion is denied, and the
defendant will be given sixty
days within which to answer the
bill.
GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
CERTIORARI TO THE JUSTICE COURT, PRECINCT NO. 1, HARRIS
COUNTY,

No. 563.

TEXAS.

Argued March 11, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.

1. In the light of principles announced by the highest court of
Texas, relative to the rights and privileges of political parties
under the laws of that State, the denial of a ballot to a negro for
voting in a primary election, pursuant to a resolution adopted by
the state convention restricting membership in the party to white
persons, can not be deemed state accion inhibited by the Fourteenth
or Fifteenth Amendment. P. 49.
2. Analysis of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas in the
cases of Bell v. Hill and Love v. Wilcox lends no support to the
claim that §§ 2 and 27 of the Bill of Rights of Texas violate the
Federal Constitution. P. 53.
3. The provisions of Art. 3167 of the Revised Civil Statutes of
Texas, 1925, prescribing the -times when state conventions of
political parties are to be held and regulating the method of choosing delegates, do not warrant the conclusion that the state convention is a mere creature of the State. P. 53.
4. That in Texas nomination by the Democratic party is equivalent
to election, and exclusion from the primary virtually disfranchises
the voter, does not, without more, make out a. forbidden discrimination in this case. P. 54.
5. That the Democratic national organization has not declared a
policy to exclude negroes from membership, gives no support to

