GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.

45

Syllabus.

40

fact be otherwise Wyoming may traverse this allegation
and thus make it an issue to be determined with proper
regard to such proofs as may be produced respecting the
supply from the South Platte.
We think no sufficient ground appears for dismissing
the bill.
The motion is denied, and the
defendant will be given sixty
days within which to answer the
bill.
GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
CERTIORARI TO THE JUSTICE COURT, PRECINCT NO. 1, HARRIS
COUNTY,

No. 563.

TEXAS.

Argued March 11, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.

1. In the light of principles announced by the highest court of
Texas, relative to the rights and privileges of political parties
under the laws of that State, the denial of a ballot to a negro for
voting in a primary election, pursuant to a resolution adopted by
the state convention restricting membership in the party to white
persons, can not be deemed state accion inhibited by the Fourteenth
or Fifteenth Amendment. P. 49.
2. Analysis of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas in the
cases of Bell v. Hill and Love v. Wilcox lends no support to the
claim that §§ 2 and 27 of the Bill of Rights of Texas violate the
Federal Constitution. P. 53.
3. The provisions of Art. 3167 of the Revised Civil Statutes of
Texas, 1925, prescribing the -times when state conventions of
political parties are to be held and regulating the method of choosing delegates, do not warrant the conclusion that the state convention is a mere creature of the State. P. 53.
4. That in Texas nomination by the Democratic party is equivalent
to election, and exclusion from the primary virtually disfranchises
the voter, does not, without more, make out a. forbidden discrimination in this case. P. 54.
5. That the Democratic national organization has not declared a
policy to exclude negroes from membership, gives no support to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the claim of one who was thus excluded pursuant to a resolution
of a state convention of the party in Texas, that he was discriminhted against by the State in violation of the Federal Constitution.
P. 55.
Affirme-'.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 699, to review a judgment.dismissing an action for ten dollars damages, brought by Grovey,
in a justice's court, against Townsend, a county clerk,
based on the latter's refusal to issue to the former an absentee ballot for voting in a primary election. Under
the state-law, the judgment, because of the small amount
involved, was not reviewable in any higher court of the
State.
Mr. J. Alston Atkins, with whom Mr. CarterW. Wesley
was on the brief, for petitioner.
No appearance -for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner, by complaint filed, in the Justice Court
of Harris County, Texas, alleged that although he is a
citizen of the United States and of the State and County,
and a member of and believer in the tenets of the Democratic party, the respondent, the county clerk, a state
officer, having as such only public functions to perform,
refused him a ballot for a Dem6cratic party primary election, because he is of the negro race. He demanded ten
dollars damages. The pleading quotes articles of the
Re- ised Civil Statutes of Texas which require the nomination of candidates at primary elections by any organized political party whose nominees received one hundred
thousand votes or more at-the preceding general election,
and recites that agreeably to these enactments a Democratic primary election was held on July 28, 1934, at which
petitioner had the right to vote. Referring to statutes

GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
45

Opinion of the Court.

which regulate absentee voting at primary elections, the
complaint states the petitioner expected-to be absent from
the county on the date of the primary election; and demanded of the respondent an absentee ballot, which was
refused him in virtue of a resolution of the state Democratic convention of Texas, adopted.May 24, 1932, which
is:
"Be it r-esolved, that all white citizens of the State
of Texas who are qualified to vote under the Constitution
and laws of the state shall be eligible to membership in
the Democratic party and as such entitled to participate
in its deliberations."
The complaint charges that the respondent acted without legal excuse and his wrongful and unlawful acts constituted a violation of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments of the Federal Constitution.
A demurrer, assigning as reasons that the complaint was
insufficient in law and stated no cause of action, was sustained; and a motion for a new trial, reasserting -violation
of the federal rights mentioned in the complaint, was
overruled. We granted certiorari, because of the importance of the federal question presented, which has not
been determined by this court.' Our jurisdiction is clear.
as the Justice Court is the highest state court in which a.
decision may be had,3 and the validity of the constitution
and statutes of the state was drawn in question on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution of
the United )States."
1294 U. S. 699.

'Rule 38, 5 (a).
'Downham v. Alexandria, 9 Wall. 659; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171
U. S. 101. Constitution of Texas, Article V, §§ 3, 6, 8, 16 and 19.

Revised Civil Statutes of Texas of 1925, Articles 1906-1911, 23852387, 2454, 2460. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Rawlins, 80 Tex. 579;
Hudson v. Smith, 63 Tex. Civ. App. 412; 133 S. W. 486; Arrington v.
People's Supply Co., 52 -& I. (2d) 678..

'U. S. C. Tit. 28, § 344 (b).

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The charge is that respondent, a state officer, in refusing
to furnish petitioner a ballot, obeyed the law of Texas,
and the consequent denial of petitioner's right to vote in
the primary election because of his race and color was
state action forbidden by the Federal Constitution; and
it is claimed that former decisions require us so to hold.
The cited cases are, however, not in point. In Nixon v.
Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, a statute which enacted that "in
no event shall a negro be eligible to participate in a Democratic party primary election held in the State of Texas,"
was pronounced offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment.
In Nixon v. Condon, 286 U. S.73, a statute was drawn in
question which provided that "every political party in
this State through its State Executive Committee shall
have the power to prescribe the qualifications of its own
members and shall in its own way determine who shall
be qualified to vote or otherwise participate in such political party." We held this was a delegation of state power
to the state executive committee and made its determination conclusive irrespective of any expression of the
-party's will by its convention, and th6refore the committee's action barring negroes from the party primaries was
state action prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Here the qualifications of citizens to participate in party
counsels and to vote at party primaries have been declared
by the representatives of the party in convention assembled, and this action upon its face is not state action.
The question whether under the constitution and laws of
Texas such a declaration as to party membership amounts
to state action was expressly reserved in Nixon v. Condon, supra, pp. 84-85. Petitioner insists that for various
reasons the resolution of the state convention limiting
membership in the Democratic party in Texas to white
voters does not relieve the exclusion of negroes from participation in Democratic primary elections of its true
nature as the act of the state.

GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
45

Opinion of tnie Court.

First. An argument pressed upon us in Nixon v. Condon, supra, which we found it unnecessary to consider, is
again presented. It is that the primary eleotions was held
under statutory compulsion; is wholly statutory in origin
and incidents; those charged with its management have
been deprived by statute and judicial decision of all power
to establish qualifications for participation therein inconsistent with those laid down by the laws of the state, save
only that the managers of such elections have been given
the power to deny negroes the vote. It is further urged
that while the election is designated that of the Democratic party, the statutes "not only require this method of
selecting party nominees, but define the powers and duties
of the party's representatives, and of those who are to
conduct the election, so completely, and make them so
thoroughly officers of the state, that any action taken by
them in connection with the qualifications of members of
the party is in fact state action and not party action.
In support of this view petitioner refers to Title 50 of
the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas of 1925,1 which by
Article 3101 requires that any party whose members cast
more than one hundred thousand ballots at the previous
election, shall .nominate candidates through primaries, and
fixes the date at which they are to be held; by Article 2939
requires primary election officials to be qualified voters;
by Article 2955 declares the same qualifications for voting
in such an election as in the general elections; by Article
2956 permits absentee voting as in a general election; by
Article 2978 requires that only an official ballot shall be
used, as in a general election; by Articles 2980-2981 specifies the form of ballot and how it shall be marked, as other
sections do for general elections; by Article 2984 fixes the
number of ballots to be provided, as another article does
"Vernon's Annotated Revised Civil and Criminal Stautes, Vol. 9,
p. 3ff; id., January 1935 Cumulative Supplement, pp. 117, 118.

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

for general elections; by Articles 2986, 2987 and 2990 permits the use of voting booths, guard rails, and ballot boxes
which by other statutes are provided for general elections;
by Articles 2998 and 3104 requires the officials of primary
elections to take the same oath as officials at the general
elections; by Article 3002 defines the powers of judges at
primary elections; by Articles 3003-3025 provides elaborately for the purity of the ballot box; by Article 3028
commands that the sealed ballot boxes be delivered to the
county clerk after the election, as is provided by another
article for the general election; and by .Article 3041 confers jurisdiction of election contests upon district courts,
as is done by another article with respect to general elections. A perusal of these provisions, so it is said, will convince that the state has prescribed and regulated party
primaries as fully as general elections, and has made those
who manage the primaries state officers subject to state
direction and control:
While it is true that Texas has by its laws elaborately
provided for the expression of party preference as to nominees, has required thatpreference to be expressed.in a certain form of voting, and has attempted in minute detail
to protect the, suffrage of the members of the organization
against fraud, it is equally true that the primary is a party
primary; the expenses of it are not born& by the state,
but by members of the party seeking nomination (Arts.
3108; 3116); the ballots are furnished not by the state,
but by the agencies of the party (Arts. 3109; 3119) ; .the
votes are counted and the returns made by instrumentalities created by the party (Arts. 3123; 3124-5; 3127); and
the state recognizes the state convention as the organ of
the party for the declaration of principles and the formulation of policies (Arts. 3136; 3139).
We are told that in Love v. Wilcox, 119 Tex. 256; 28
S. W. (2d) 515, the Supreme Court of Texas held the
state was-within its province in prohibiting a party from

GIROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
45

Opinion of the Court.

establishing past party affiliations or membership in nonpolitical organizations as qualifications or tests for participation in primary elections, aid in consequence issued
its .writ of -mandamus against the members of the state
executive committee of the Democratic party on the
ground that they were public functionaries fulfilling duties imposed on them by law. But in that case it was
said (p. 272):
"We are not called upon to determine whether a political party has power, beyond statutory control, to prescribe what persons shall participate as voters or candidates in its conventions or.primaries. We have no such.
state of facts before us."
After referring to Article 3107, which limits the power
of the state executive committee of a party to determine
who shall be qualified to vote at primary elections, the
court said:
"The Committee's discretionary power is further restricted by the' statute directing that a single, uniform
pledge be required of the primary participants. The effect of the statutes is to decline to give recognition to the
lodgment of power in a State Executive Committee, to be
exercised at its discretion."
Although it did not pass upon the constitutionality of
§ 3107, as we did in Nixon v. Condon, supra, the Court
thus recognized the fact upon which our decision
turned, that the effort was to vest in the state.executive
committee the power to bind the party by its decision as
to who might be admitted to membership.
In Bell v. Hill, 74 S. W. (2d) 113, the same court, in a
mandamus proceeding instituted- after the adoption by
the state convention of the resolution of May 24, 1932, restricting eligibility for membership in the Democratic.
party to white persons, held the resolution valid and effective. After a full consideration of the nature of political
parties in the United States, the court concluded that

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of tht, Court.

295 U. S.

such parties in the state of Texas arise from the exercise
of the free will and liberty of the citizens composing them;
that they are voluntary associations for political action,
and are not the creatures of the state; and further decided
that §§ 2 and 27 of Article 1 of the State Constitution
guaranteed to citizens the liberty of forming political associations, and the only limitation upon this right to be
found in that instrument is the clause which requires the
maintenance of a republican form of government. The
statutes regulating the nomination of candidates by primaries were related by the court to the police power, but
were held not to extend to the denial of the right of
citizens to form a political party and to determine who
might associate with them as members thereof. The court
declared that a proper view of the election laws of Texas,
and their history, required the conclusion that the Democratic party in that state is a volunfary political association and, by its representatives assembled in convention, has the power to determine who shal be eligible for
membership and, as such, eligible to participate in the
party's primaries.
We cannot, as petitioner urges, give weight to earlier
expressions of the state courts said to be inconsistent with
this declaration of the law. The Supreme Court of the
state has decided, in a case definitely involving the point,
that the legislature of Texas has not essayed to interfere,
and indeed may not interfere, with the constitutional
liberty of citizens to organize a party and to determine the
qualifications of its members. If in the past the legislature has attempted to infringe that right and such infringement has not been gainsaid by the courts, the fact
constitutes no reason for our disregarding the considered
decision of the state's highest court. The legislative assembly of the state, so far as we are advised, has never
attempted to prescribe or to limit the membership of a

GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
45

Opinion of the Court.

political party, and it is now settled that it has no power
so to do. The state, as its highest tribunal holds, though
it has guaranteed the liberty to organize political parties,
may legislate for their governance when formed and for
the method whereby they may nominate candidates, but
must do so with full recognition of the right of the party
to exist, to define its membership, and to adopt such
policies as to it shall seem wise. In the light of the principles so announced, we are unable to characterize the
managers of the primary election as state officers in such
sense that any action taken by them in obedience to the
mandate of the state convention respecting eligibility to
participate in the organization's deliberations, is state
action.
Second. We are told that §§ 2 and 27 of the Bill of
Rights of the Constitution of Texas as construed in Bell
v. Hill, supra, violate the Federal Constitution, for the
reason that so construed they fail to forbid a classificationbased upon race and color, whereas in Love v. Wilcox,
supra, they were not held to forbid classifications based
upon party affiliations and membership or non-membership in organizations other than political parties, which
classifications were by Article 3107 of Revised Civil Statutes, 1925, prohibited. But, as above said, in Love v.
Wilcox the court did not construe or apply any constitutional provision and expressly reserved the question as
to the power of a party in convention assembled .to specify
the qualifications for membership therein.
Third. An alternative contention of petitioner is that
the state Democratic convention which adopted the resolution here involved was a mere creature of the state and
could not lawfully do what the Federal Constitution prohibits to its-creator. The argument is based upon the
fact that Article 3167 of the Revised Civil Statutes of
Texas, 1925, requires a political party desiring to elect

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

delegates to a national convention, to hold a state convention on the fourth Tuesday of May, 1928, and every
four years thereafter; and provides for the election of
delegates to that convention at primary conventions, the
procedure of which is regulated by law. In Bell v. Hill,
supra, the Supreme Court of Texas held that Article 3167
does not prohibit declarations of policy by a state Democratic convention called for the purpose of electing delegates to a national convention. While it may be, as petitioner contends, that we are not bound by the state
court's decision on the point, it is entitled to the highest
respect, and petitioner points to nothing which in any
wise impugns its accuracy. If, as seems to be conceded,
the Democratic party in Texas held conventions many
years before the adoption of Article 3167, nothing is shown
to indicate that the regulation of the method of choosing
delegates or fixing the times of their' meetings, was intended to take away the plenary power of conventions in
respect of matters as to which they would normally announce the party's will. Compare Nixon v. Condon,
supra, 84. We are not prepared to hold that in Texas the
state convention of a party has become a mere instrumentality or agency for expressing the voice or will of the
state.
Fourth. The complaint states that candidates for the
offices of Senator and Representative in Congress were
to be nominated at the primary election of July 9, 1934,
and that in Texas nomination by the Democratic party is
equivalent to election. These facts (the truth of which
the demurrer assumes) the petitioner insists, without
more, make out a forbidden discrimination. A similar
situation may exist in other states where one or another
party includes a *reat majority of the qualified electors.
The argument is that as a negro may not be denied a

GROVEY v. TOWNSEND.
45

Opinion of the Court.

ballot at a general' election on account of his race or
color,^if exclusion from the primary renders °his vote at
the general election insignificant and useless, the result
is to deny him the suffrage altogether. So to say is to
confuse the privilege of membership in a party with the
right to vote for one who is to hold a public office. With
the former the state need have no concern, with the
latter it is bound to concern itself, for the general election
is a function of the state government and discrimination
by the state as respects participation by negroes on
account of their race or color is prohibited by the Federal
Constitution.
Fifth. The complaint charges that the Democratic
party has never- declared a purpose to exclude negroes.
The premise upon, which this conclusion rests is that the
party is not a state body but a national organization,
whose representative is the national Democratic convention. No such convention, so it is said, has resolved to
exclude negroes from membership. We have no occasion
to determine the correctness of the position, since even
if true it does not tend to prove that the petitioner vas
discriminated against or denied any right to vote by the
State of Texas. Indeed, the contention contradicts any
such conclusion, for it assumes merely that a state convention, the representative and agent of a state association,
has usurped the rightful authority of a national .convention which represents a lariger and superior country-wide
association.
'We find no ground for holding that the respondent has
in obedience to the mandate -of the law of Texas discriminated against the petitioner or denied him any right
guaranteed by the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments.
Judgment affirmed.

