BULL v. UNITED STATES.
243

Syllabus.

This novel application of § 68 (a) is, we think, inadmissible. A creditor holding security who realizes upon
it, does not "owe" his debtor the amount realized. The
well understood concept of mutual debts does not embrace such a situation as is here disclosed.
Judgment reversed.
BULL, EXECUTOR, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 649. Argued April 9, 1935.--Decided April 29, 1935.
1. Moneys received by a deceased partner's estate as his share of
profits earned by the firm before he died, are taxable as his income
and also are to be included as part of his estate in computing the
federal estate tax. P. 254.
2. Where the articles of a personal service partnership having no invested capital provide that in the event of a partner's death the
survivors, if his representative does not object, shall be at liberty
to continue th business for a year, the estate in that case to share
the profits or losses as the deceased partner would if living, the
profits coming to the estate from such continuation of the business
are not to be regarded as the fruits of a sale of any interest of the
deceased to the survivors, but are income of the estate, taxable as
such; they, are no part of the corpus of the estate left by the
decedent upon which the federal estate tax ,isto be computed.
P. 255.
3. Retention by the Government of money wrongfully exacted as
taxes, is immoral and amounts in law to a fraud on -the taxpayer's
rights. P. 261.
4. A claim for recovery of money so held may not only be the
subject of a suit in the Coburt of Claims, but may be used by way
of recoupment and credit in an action by the United States arising
out of the same transaction, and this even though an independent
suit against the Government to enforce the claim would be barred
by the statute of limitations. P. 261.
5. Recoupment is in the nature of a defense arising out of some
feature of the transaction upon which the plaintiff's action is
grounded. Such a defense is never barred by the statute of limitations so long as the main action itself is timely. P. 262.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

295 U. S.

6. The Government wrongfully collected and retained an estate tax
on moneys earned for and paid to an estate in partnership transactions after the decedent's death, and which were not part of the
corpus of the estate and were properly taxable only as income of
the estate. Before the time allowed for claiming reimbursement
had elapsed, the Government proceeded to assess and collect an
income tax on the identical moneys. Held:
'(1) That the taxpayer was entitled to recoup from the amount
of the income tax the amount of the unlawful estate tax by suit for
the difference in the Court of Claims, although suit to recover the
unlawful tax independently had become barred. Pp. 261-262.
(2) A complaint by which the taxpayer prayed judgment in the
alternative, either for the amount of the income tax or for what
should have been credited against it on account of the estate tax,
was sufficient to put in issue the right to recoupment. P. 263.
7. The Court of Claims is not bound by any special rules of pleading; all that is required is that the petition shall contain a plain
and concise statement of the facts relied on and give the United
States reasonable notice of the matters-it is called upon to meet.
P. 263.

79 Ct. Cls. 133; 6 F. Supp. 141, reversed.
CERTiORAI, 294 U. S. 704, to review a judgment rejecting a claim for money unlawfully exacted as taxes.

Mr. Loring M. Black, with whom Mr. David A. Buckley, Jr., was on the brief, for petitioner.
The death of petitioner's testator worked a dissolution
of the partnership, and the deceased partner's interest
therein became an asset of the estate, and its value was
determined by the Commissioner. It necessarily follows
that whatever was received by the estate in liquidation
of this capital asset was nothing more than the return of
capital to the extent that it did not exceed the value at
the beginning of the period. There was in effect a sale
of the good will, contracts and other property of the partnership to the survivors, to be paid for by a share of the
profits.

The relationship between the estate and the surviving
partners was one of creditor and debtor. The profits

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

Argument for Petitioner.

which were paid by the surviving partners from time to
time to the estate represented payments on the amount
of the debt. When final payment was made, the relationship was terminated and the estate's interest in the
partnership as constituted at the time of the death of
Archibald H. Bull was extinguished.
The partnership agreement provided the methods for
liquidating a deceased partner's interest in the partnership, and any property coming to the estate as the deceased partner's interest, represented. capital and was part
of the corpus of the estate.
In carrying on the new partnership, certain profits
were realized, and the estate received the same share of
these profits as the decedent would have received if he
had lived. In so far as the surviving partners were concerned, these profits represented income; and in so far as
the estate was concerned, they represented capital-an
amount received in liquidation of a capital asset. United
States v. Wood, 8 F. Supp. 939; United States v. Carter,
19 F. (2d) 121; Matter of Lee, 215 App. Div. (N. Y.)
576.
The amount, being the value of property received by
bequest, may not be taxed as income, because of statutory exemption. Rev. Act, 1918, § 213 (b) (3); Brewster
v. Gage, 280 U. S. 334; Burnet v. Whitehouse, 283 U. S.
148, 151.
Having once been properly classed as corpus, the asset
in question could not be classed as income, and any profit
upon the sale or liquidation thereof is limited to the
excess of the value at the time of death, as determined
by the Commissioner. Nichols v. United States, 64 Ct.
Cls. 241, 245.
The addition of the income tax amounts to double
taxation, against which there exists a strong presumption.
United States v. Supplee-Biddle Co., 265 U. S. 189.
195, 196.

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the United States.

295 U.S.

The returns to the estate being less than the value of
the property as of the date of death, as determined by
the Commissioner, there was no gain upon which to levy
any income tax.
Mr.. James W. Morris, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr. J.
Louis Monarch were on the brief, for the United States.
The challenged tax is imposed upon partnership profits
"distributed to the estate of a deceased partner. Such
profits are clearly income in the ordinary case, but petitioner contends that since the estate had the right to
receive them, and such right was valued as a part of the
decedent's gross estate for estate tax purposes, the receipts may not be taxed unless in excess of that value.
Upon analysis, it appears that the right of the estate
to receive these profits was a proprietary right, which
came into existence when the estate elected to have the
business continued without the withdrawal of the decedent's interest. Hence, the right of the estate was not
different in character from the right of the decedent
while he was living.
Petitioner contends that only the excess of piofits over
the value of the decedent's interest in the business at the
time of his death may be treated as taxable income.
Even if that be true, the amount which the Commissioner
has treated as income ($200,117.09) does represent only
the excess of profits over what the court has found to be
the value of the decedent's interest in the business at the
time of his death ($24,124.20). The rule for which petitioner contends has accordingly been satisfied.
We submit, however, that there is no requirement of
the statute or regulations that limits the taxable income
to the excess over the value of the decedent's interest at
death. The right to future profits is a right" to receive
income, and there is authority in the decided cases for

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

taxing income, properly so-called, even though the principal which produced it be a bequest, and also despite the
fact that the transfer of the right to receive it had been
taxed as part of the estate. Citations: Helvering v. Butterworth, 290 U. S. 365; Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor, 2 How. 560; Burnet v. Logan, 283 U. S. 404; United
States v. Wood, 8 F. Supp. 939, 940; Hill v. Commissioner, 38 F. (2d) 165; -eert. den., 281 U. S. 761; Pope
v. Commissioner, 39 F. (2d) 420; Ithaca Trust Co. v;
United States, 279 U. S. 151; United States v. Carter,
19 F. (2d) 121; Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161; Waud v.
United States, 71 Ct. Cls. 567.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Archibald H. Bull died February 13, 1920. He had been
a member of a partnership engaged in the business of
ship-brokers. The agreement of association provided that
in the event a partner died the survivors should continue
the business for one year subsequent to his death, and his
estate should " receive the same interests, or participate in
the losses to the same extent," as the deceased partner
would, if living, "based on the usual method of ascertaining what the said profits or losses would be. . .. Or the
estate of the deceased partner shall have the option of
withdrawing his interest from the firm within thirty days
after the probate of will . . . and all adjustments of
profits or losses shall be made as of the date of such withdrawal." The estate's representative did not exercise the
option to withdraw in thirty days, and the business was
conducted until December 31, 1920 as contemplated by
the agreement.
The enterprise required no capital and none was ever
invested by the partners. Bull's share of profits from
January 1, 1920, to the date of his death, February 13,
1920, was $24,124.20; he had no.other accumulated profits

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

and no interest in.any tangible property belonging to the
firm. Profits accruing to the estate for the period from the
decedent's death to the end of 1920 were $212,718.79;
$200,117.90 being paid during the year, and $12,601.70
during the first two months of 1921.
The Court of Claims found:
"When filing an estate-tax return, the executor included
the decedent's interest in the partnership at a value of
$24,124.20, which represented the decedents share of the
earnings accrued to the date of death, whereas the Commissioner, in 1921, valued such interest at $235,202.99, and
subjected such increased value to the payment of an estate
tax, which was paid in June and August 1921. The lastmentioned amount was made up of the amount of
$24,124.20 plus the amount of $212,718.79, hereinbefore
mentioned. The estate tax on this increased amount was
$41,517.45.1
"April 14, 1921, plaintiff filed an income-tax return for
the period February 13, 1920, to December 31, 1920}, for
the estate of the decedent, which return did not include,
as income, the amount of $200,117.09 received as the share
of the profits earned by the partnership during the period
for which the return was filed. The estate employed the
cash receipts and disbursement method of accounting.
"Thereafter, in July 1925 the Commissioner determined that the sum of $200,117.09 received in 1920
should have been returned by the executor as income to
the estate for the period February 13 to December 31,
1920, and notified plaintiff of a deficiency in income tax
due from the estate for that period of $261,212.65, which
was due in part to the inclusion of that amount as taxable
income and in part to adjustments not here in contro'Itwill be noted there is an error in the figures set out in this finding, the total of the two smaller sums being $236,842.99, but the
discrepancy is not material to any issue in the case.

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

versy. No deduction was allowed by the Commissioner
from the amount of $200,117.09 on account of the value
of the decedent's interest in the partnership at his death."
September 5, 1925, the executor appealed to the Board
of Tax Appeals from the deficiency of income tax so determined. The Board sustained the Commissioner's
action in including the item of $200,117.99 without any
reduction on account of the value of the decedent's interest in the partnership at the date of death,2 and determined a deficiency of $55,166.49, which, ,with interest of
$7,510.95, was paid April 14, 1928.
July 11, 1928, the executor filed a claim for refund of
this amount, setting forth that the $200,117.99, by reason of which the additional tax was assessed and paid,
was corpus; that it was so originally determined by the
Commissioner and the estate tax assessed thereon was
paid by the executor; and that the subsequent assessment of an income tax against the estate for the receipt, of
the same sum was erroneous. The claim was rejected
May 8, 1929. September 16, 1930, the executor brought
suit in the Court of Claims, and in his petition, after setting forth the facts as he alleged them to be, prayed
judgment in the alternative (1) for the principal sum of
$62,677.44, the amount paid April 14, 1928, as a deficiency of income tax unlawfully assessed and collected,
or (2) for the sum of $47,643.44 on the theory that if the
sum of $200,117.99 was income for the year 1920 and
taxable as such, the United States should have credited
against the income tax attributable to the receipt 'of this
sum the overpayment of estate tax resulting from including the amount in the taxable estate,--34,035,' with
interest thereon.
17 B. T. A. 993.
'As appears from the quoted finding, the Court of Claims found
the overpayment was $41,517.45.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The Court of Claims held that the item was income and
properly so taxed. With respect to the alternative relief
sought it said: "We cannot consider whether the Commissioner correctly included the total amount received
from the business in the net estate of the decedent subject to the estate tax for the reason that the suit was
not timely instituted." Judgment went for the United
States." Because of the novelty and importance of the
question presented we granted certiorari.5
, 1. We concur in the view of the Court of Claims that
the ainount received from the partnership as profits earned
prior to Bull's death was income earned by him in his
lifetime and taxable to him as such; and that it w~.s also
corpus of his estate and as such to be included in his gross
estate for computation of estate tax. We also agree that
the sums paid his estate as profits earned after his death
were not corpus, but income received by his executor and
to be reckoned in computing income tax for the years
1920 and 1921. Where the effect of the contract is that
the deceased partner's estate shall leave his interest in the
business and the surviving partners shall acquire it by
payments to the estate, the transaction is a sales and payments made to the estate are for the account of the survivors. It results that the surviving partners are taxable
upon firm profits and the estate is not.6 Here, however,
the survivors have purchased nothing belonging tc the
decedent, who had made no investment in the business
and owned no tangible property connected with it. The
portion of the profits paid his estate was, therefore, income and not corpus; and this is so'whether we consider
the executor a member of the old firm for the remainder
'79 Ct. Cls. 133; 6 F. Supp. 141.
S294 U. S. 704.
Hill v. Commissioner, 38 F. (2d) 165; Pope v. Commissioner,
39 F. (2d) 420.

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

of the year, or hold that the estate became a partner in
a new association formed upon the decedent's demise.
2. A serious and difficult issue is raised by the claim
that the same receipt has been made the basis of both
income and estate tax, although the item cannot in the
circumstances be both income and corpus; and that the
alternative prayer of the petition required the court to
render a judgment which would redress the illegality
and injustice resulting from the erroneous inclusion of
the sum in the gross estate for estate tax. The respondent presents two arguments in opposition, one addressed
to the merits and the other to the bar of the statute of
limitations.
On the merits it is insisted that the Government was
entitled to both estate tax and income tax in virtue of the
right conferred on the estate by the partnership agreement and the fruits of it. The position is that as the
contract gave Bull a valuable right which passed to his
estate at his death the Commissioner correctly included
it for estate tax. And the propriety of treating the share
of profits paid to the estate as income is said to be equally
clear. The same sum of money in different aspects may
be the basis of both forms of tax. An example is found
in this estate. The decedent's share of profits accrued to
the date of his death was $24,124.20. This was income
to him in his lifetime and his executor was bound to return
it as such. But the sum was paid to the executor by the
surviving-partners, and thus became an asset of the estate;
accordingly the petitioner returned that amount as part
of the gross estate for computation of estate tax and the
Commissioner properly treated it as such.
We are told that since the right to profits is distinct from
the profits actually collected we cannot now say more than
that perhaps the Commissioner put too high a value on the
contract right when he valued it as equal to the amount

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
-Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

of profits received-$212,718.99. This error, if error it
was, the Government says is now beyond correction.
While, as we have said, the same sum may in different
aspects be used for the computation of both an income
and an estate tax, this fact will not here serve to justify
the Commissioner's rulings. They were inconsistent. The
identical money,-not a right to receive the amount, on
the one hand, and actual receipt resulting from that right
on the other,-was the basis of two assessments. The
double taxation involved in this inconsistent treatment of
that sum of money is made clear by the lower court's finding we have quoted. The Commissioner assessed estate
tax on the total obtained by adding $24,124.20, the decedent's share of profits earned prior to his death, and
$212,718.79, the estate's share of profits earned thereafter.
He treated the two items as of like quality, considered
them both as capital or corpus; and viewed neither as the
measure of value of a right passing from the decedent at
death. No other conclusion may be drawn from the finding of the Court of Claims.
In the light of the facts it would not have been permissible to place a value of $212,718.99 or any other value on
the mere right of continuance of the partnership relation
enuring to Bull's estate. Had he lived, his share of profits
would have been income. By the terms of the agreement
his estate was to sustain precisely the same status quoad
the firm as he had, in respect of profits and losses. Since
the partners contributed no capital and owned no tangible
property connected with the business, there is no justification for characterizing the right of a living partner to his
share of earnings as part of his capital; and if the right
was not capital to him, it could not be such to his estate.
Let us suppose Bull had, while living, assigned his interest in the firm, with his partners' consent, to a third person
for a valuable consideration, and in making return of income had valued or capitalized the right to profits which

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

he had thus sold, had deducted such valuation from the
consideration received, and returned the difference only
as gain. We think the Commissioner would rightly have
insisted that the entire amount received was income.
Since the firm was a personal service concern and no
tangible property was involved in its transactions, if it
had not been for the terms of the agreement, no accounting would have ever been made upon Bull's death for anything other than his share of profits accrued to the date of
his death,-$24,124.20,--and this would, have been the
only amount to be included in his estate in connection
with his membership in the firm. As respects the status
after death the form of the stipulation is significant. The
declaration is that the surviving partners "are to -be at
liberty" to continue the business for a year, in the same
relation with the deceased partner's estate as if it were in
fact the decedent imself still alive and a member of the
firm. His personal representative is given a veto which
will prevent the continuance of the firm's business. The
purpose may well have been to protect the good will of
the enterprise in the interest of the survivors and to afford
them a reasonable time in which to arrange for their future activities. But no sale of the decedent's interest or
share in the good-will can be spelled out. Indeed the Government strenuously asserted, in supporting the treatment
of the payments to the estate as income, that the estate
sold nothing to the surviving partners; and we agree. An
analogous situation would be presented if Bull had not
died, but the partnership had terminated by. limitation
on February 13, 1920, and the agreement had provided
that, if Bull's partners so desired, the relation should continue for another year. It could not successfully be contended that, in such case, Bull's 'share of profit for the
additional year was capital.
We think. there was no estate tax due in respect of the
$212,718.79 paid to the executor as profits for the period
subsequent to the decedent's death.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court..

295 U. S.

The Government's second point is that if the use of
profits accruing to the estate in computing estate tax was
wrong, the statute of limitations bars correction of the
error in the present action. So the Court of Claims
thought. We hold otherwise.
The petitioner included in his estate tax return, as the
value of Bull's interest in the partnership, only $24,124.20,
the profit accrued prior to his death. The Commissioner
added $212,718.79, the sum received as profits after Bull's
death, and determined the total represented the value of
the interest. The petitioner acquiesced and paid the tax
assessed in full in August, 1921. He had no reason to assume the Commissioner would adjudge the $212,718.79 income and taxable as such. Nor was this done until July,
1925. The petitioner thereupon asserted, as we thintk correctly, that the item could not be both corpus and income
of the estate. The Commissioner apparently held a contrary view. The petitioner appealed to the Board of Tax
Appeals from the proposed deficiency of income tax. 'His
appeal was dismissed April 9, 1928. It was then too late,
to file a claim for refund of overpayment of estate tax due
to the error of inclusion in the estate of its share of firm
profits. 7 Inability to obtain a refund or credit, or to sue
the United States, did not, however, alter the fact that if
the Government should insist on payment of the full deficiency of income tax, it would be in possession of some
$41,000 in excess of the sum to which it was justly entitled.
Payment was demanded. The petitioner paid April 14,
1928, and on June 11, 1928, presented a claim for refund,
in which he still insisted the amount in question was
corpus, had been so determined and estate tax paid on that
basis, and should not be classified for taxation as income.
The claimwas rejected May 8, 1929, and the present action
instituted September 16, 1930.
'Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 1012 and 281, 43 Stat. pp. 342 and 301;
Revenue Act of 1926, §§ 1112 and 319, 44 Stat. pp. 115 and-84.

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

259

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that the petitioner relied on the Commissioner's"
assessment for estate tax, and believed the inconsistent
claim of deficiency of income tax was of no force, cannot
avail to toll the statute of limitations, which forbade the
bringing of any action in 1930 for refund of the estate tax
payments made in 1921. As the income tax was properly
collected, suit for the recovery of any part of the amount
paid on that account was futile. Upon what theory, then,
may the petitioner obtain redress in the present action for
'the unlawful retention of the money of the estate? Before
an answer can be given the system of enforcing the
Government's claims for taxes must be considered in, its
relation to the problem.
A tax is an exaction by the sovereign, and necessarily
the sovereign has an enforcible claim hgainst every one
within the taxable class for the amount lawfully due from
him. The statute prescribes the rule of taxation. Some
machinery must be provided for applying the rule to the
facts in each taxpayer's case, in order to ascertain the
amount due. The chosen instrumentality for the purpose
is an administrative agency whose action is called an
assessment. The assessment may be valuation of property subject to taxation which valuation is to be multiplied by the statutory rate to ascertain the amount of
tax. Or it may include the calculation and fix the amount
of tax payable, and assessments of federal estate and
income taxes are of this type. Once the tax is assessed
the taxpayer will owe the sovereign the amount when the
date fixed by law for payment arrives. Default in meeting the obligation calls for some procedure whereby payment can be enforced. The statute might remit the Governmen t to an action at law wherein the taxpayer could
offer such defense as he had. A judgment against him
might be collected by the levy of an execution. But taxes
are the life-blood of government, and their prompt and
certain availability an imperious need. Time out of
mind, therefore, the sovereign has resgrted to more drastic

a

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

means of collection. The assessment is given the force
of a judgment, and if the amoint assessed is not paid
when due, administrative officials may seize the debtor's
property to satisfy the debt.
In recognition of the fact that erroneous determinations
and assessments will inevitably occur, the statutes, in a
spirit of fairness, invariably afford the taxpayer an opportunity at some stage to have mistakes rectified. Often an
administrative hearing is afforded before the assessment
becomes final; or administrative machinery is provided
whereby an erroneous collection may be refunded; in
some instances both administrative relief and redress by
an action against the sovereign in one of its courts are
permitted methods of restitution of* excessive or illegal
exaction. Thus the usual procedure for the recovery of
debts is reversed in the field of taxation. Payment precedes defense, and the burden of proof, normally on the
claimant, is shifted to the taxpayer. The assessment
supersedes the pleading, proof and judgment necessary in
an action at law, and has the force of such a judgment.
The ordinary defendant stands in judgment only affer a
hearing. The taxpayer often is afforded his hearing after
judgment and after payment, and his only redress for
unjust administrative action is the right to claim restitution. But these reversals of the normal process of collecting a claim cannot obscure the fact that after all what
is being accomplished is the recovery of a just debt owed
the sovereign. If that which the sovereign retains was
unjustly taken in violation of its own statute, the withholding is wrongful. Restitution is owed the taxpayer.
Nevertheless he may be without a remedy. But we think
this is not true here.
In a proceeding for the collection of estate tax, the
United States through a palpable mistake took more than
it was entitled to. Retention of the money was against
morality and conscience. But claim for refund or credit

BULL v. UNITED'STATES.
247

Opinion of the Court.

was'not presented or action instituted for'restitution
within the period fixed by the statute of limitations. If
nothing further had occurred Congressional .action would
have been the sole avenue of redress.
In July, 1925, the Government brought a new proceeding arising out of the same transaction involved in the
earlier proceeding. This time, however, its claim was
for income tax. The taxpayer opposed payment in full,
by demanding recoupment of the amount mistakenly collected as estate tax and wrongfully retained. Had the
Goveinment instituted an action at law, the defense
would have been good. The United States, we have held,
cannot, as against the claim of an innocent party, hold his
money which has gone into its treasury by means of the
fraud of its agent. United States v . State Bank, 96
U. S. 30. While here the money was taken through mistake without any element of fraud, the unjust retention
is immoral and amounts in law to a fraud, on the taxpayer's rights. What was said in the State Bank case
applies with equal force to this situation. "An action
will lie whenever the defendant has received money which
is the property of the plaintiff, and which the defendant
is obliged by natural justice and equity to refund. The
form of the indebtedness or the mode in which it was
incurred is immaterial. . . . In these cases, [cited in the
opinion] and many others that might be cited, the rules of
law applicable to individuals were applied to the United
States" (pp. 35, 36).8 A claim for recovery of money so
held may not only be the subject of a suit in the Court
of Claims, as shown by the authority referred to, but
may be used by way of recoupment and credit in an action by the United States arising out of the same transaction. United States v. Macdaniel, 7 Pet. 1, 16, 17;
United States v. Ringgold, 8 Pet. 150, 163-164. In the
"See also McKnight v. United States, 98 U. S. 179, 186.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

latter case this language was used: "No direct suit can
be maintained against the United States; but when an
action is brought by the United States, to recover money
in the hands of a party, who has a legal claim against
them, it would be a very rigid principle, to deny to him
the right of setting up such claim in a court of justice,
and turn him round to an application to congress. If
the right of the party is fixed by the existing law, there
can be no necessity for an application to congress, except
for the purpose of remedy. And no such necessity can
exist, when this right can properly be set up by way of
defence, to a suit by the United States." I If the claim
for income tax deficiency had been the subject of a suit,
any counter demand for recoupment of the overpayment
of estate tax could have been asserted by way of defense
and credit obtained notwithstanding the statute of limitations had barred an independent suit against the Government therefor. This is because recoupment is in the
nature of a defense arising out, of some feature of the
transaction upon which the plaintiff's action is grounded.
Such a defense is never barred by the statute of limitations so long as the main action itself is timely."0
The circumstance that both claims, the one for estate
tax and the other for income tax, were prosecuted to judgment and execution in summary form does not obscure the
fact that in substance the proceedings were actions to collect debts alleged to be due the United States. It is
'See also The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 154.
" Williams v. Neely, 134 Fed. 1; Conner v. Smith, 88 Ala. 300;
7 So. 150; Stewart v. Simon, 111 Ark. 358; 163 S. W. 1135; Beecher
v. Baldwin, 55 Conn. 419; Blackshear v: Dekle, 120 Ga. 766; 48 S. E.
311; Aultman & Co. v. Torrey, 55 Minn. 492; 57 N. W. 211; Kaup
v. Schinstock, 88 Neb. 95; 129 N. W. 184; Campbell v. Hughes,
73 Hun (N. Y.) 14; 25 N. Y. S. 1021.

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
247

263

Opinion of the Court.

immaterial that in the second case, owing to the summary
nature of the remedy, the taxpayer was required to pay
the tax and afterwards seek refundment. This procedural
requirement does not obliterate his substantial right to
rely on his cross-demand for credit of the amount which if
the United States had sued him for income tax he could
have recouped against his liability on that score.
To the objection that the sovereign is not liable to respond to the petitioner the answer is that it has given him
'a right of credit or refund, which though he could not
assert it in an action brought by him in 1930, had accrued
and was available to him since it was actionable and not
barred in 1925 when the Government proceeded against
him for the collection of income tax.
The pleading was sufficient to put in issue the right to
recoupment. The Court of Claims is not bound by any
special rules of pleading; " all that is required is that the
petition shall contain a plain and concise statement of the
facts relied on and give the United States reasonable notice
of the matters it is called upon to meet. 12 And a prayer
for alternative relief, based upon the facts set out in the
petition may be the basis of the judgment rendered.18
We are of opinion that the petitioner was entitled to
have credited against the deficiency of income tax, the
amount of his overpayment of estate tax with interest and
that he should have been given judgment accordingly.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
United States v. Burns, 12 Wal. 246, 254; District of Columbia
v. 1Barnes, 197 U. S. 146, 153-154.
,Merritt v. United States, 267 U. S. 338, 341.
United States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 338, 347.

