480

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
295-U. S.

Syllabus.

disclosed in the cited case. -In the first place the Commissi6n here found the required minimum reasonable; in the
second place, it had, after full investigation in this ana
the Ohio case,' held the existing rate structure-built upon
certain reasonable key or controlling rates by application
of proper differentials--just and reasonable, and the exriver rates here in issue, in cohtrast, too low. Comparisons
of other rates in the same or adjacent territory, while not
a conclusive test of reasonableness of a rate under investigation,-have probative value.9 There was much bther evidence bearing upon the character of the service and cost.
The order of the Commission was based .primarily upon
the r.asonableness of the minimum prescribed. The existing rate structure furnished support for the finding of
reasonableness.
3. There is no merit in the contention that the order
was a § -8 order and invalid for failure to afford the carriers An alternative of raising the contested rate of lowering others to remove discrimination. It is true the C6mmission found prejudice to shippers all rail, but in essence
the order entered was a § 15 order and not one made
under § 3.10
Decree affirmed.
UNITED STATES v: MACK

ET A.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND.CIRCUIT.

No. 693,

Argued May 1, 2, 1935.--Decided May 20, 1935.

1. Liability on a. bond executed pursuant to § 26, Title II of the
National Prohibition Act by the owner of a vessel seized while
being used in the transportation of intoxicating liquors was conSupra, Note 4.

'United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 288 U. S. 490, 500.
' Compare St. Lozds Southwestern Ry. Po. v. United Staut, 245
U. S. 136, 145.

UNITED STATES v. MACK.
480 '

Opinion of 'the Court.

ditioned on the return of the vessel to the custody of the seizing
officer "-on the day of the criminal trial to abide the judgment of
the court." Held not extinguished by the repeal of the'Eighteenth
Amendment,-it appearing that the condition for the return of the
vessel was breached and that the crew had pleaded guilty and were
sentenced for possession as an incident of the 'transportation, prior
to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. P. 483.
2. The contention that repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment extinguished the remedy on the bond because it ended the possibility of
proceedings against the vessel itself, examined and rejected. P. 485..,
3. The analogy of bail in civil and criminal cases considered and
found to support the conclusion here reached. 'P.486 et seq.
4. Laches within the term of the statute of limitations is no defedse
to an action at law; and, least of all is it a defense to an action
by the sovereign. P. 489
73 F. (2d) 265, reversed.

U. S. 704, to review a judgment affirming a judgment dismissing the complaint in an action by
the United. States on a bond.
CERTIORARI, 294

Assistant to the Attorney General Stanley, with wmn

Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Alexander Holtzoffand Carl McFarland were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Louis Halle, with whom Mr. Milton R. IAroopf was
on the brief, for responclents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered t e opinion of the

Court.
On Jiuly 31, 1930, an American motor boat, the Wanda,
had on board a cargo of intoxicating liquors. The Collector of the Port of New York seized the vessel and arrested the crew for an offense against the National Prohibition Act. Thereupon the respondent Mack claiming
to be the owner of the vessel gave a bond as principal with
the othler respondent as surety in the sum of $2,200,
double the value of the vessel, conditioned that the bond
should be void if the vessel was returned to the custody
of the Collector on the day of the criminal trial to abide

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
295 U. S.

Opinion of the Coui-t.

the judgment of the court. A copy of the bond is printed
in the margin., The members of the crew were brought to
Know all men by these preteas, that I, Jameis A. Mack, of
iqo. 4 Hickory Stteet, Wantigh, Lung Island, N. Y., principal and
-Concord Casualty and Surety Company, of No. 60 John Street,
New Yoik City, a corporation, organized and existing under laws
of New York State, surety, are held and firmly bound unto the
United States of America in the penal sum of two thousand two
handred and 00/100 ($2,200.00) dullais (double the value of the
vehicle or boiveyance), money of the United States, for the payxnent of which well and truly to be made webind ourselves jointly
Ond everallkr, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and
issigns firmly by these presents.
"Whereas, the following described vehicle or conveyance has been
veized pursuant to section 26 of- title II of the National Prohibition
Act, to wit: The American motor boat 'Wanaa.'
"And, whereas, the aforesaid principal has made application for
the return of said vehicle or conveyance, claiming to be the owner
thereof:
"Now, therefore, the condition of this obligation or bond is such,
that if the-said principal shall return the aforesaid conveyance or
vehicle to the-custody of the officer approving this bond on the
day of the criminal trial to abide the judgment of the court; and,
in case the said property shall be forfeited to the United States, or
the court shall order a sale o?s aid cnveyance or vehicle, that if the
said principal shall pay the difference between the value of said
vehicle or conveyance at the time of the execution hereof, which is
hereby stipulated to be one-half of the penal sum of this bond, and
its value on the date of its return as aforesaid, less depreciation due
to reasonable wear and tear of ordinary use, and the said principal
shall pay off any liens or encumbrafices thereon except the following
liens heretofore existing, namer,: then this obligation to be void,
otherwise to remain in full force and effect.
"Witness our hands and seals thig-31st day of October 1930;

By

JAMES

A. MACK,

Principal Concord Casuaty and Surety Company.

By

JOHN

A.

MANNING,

Resident Vime President.
FRE

M. NIELSEN,

"Attest:
Attorney in fact.
"Approved this 1st day of November 1930.
H. C. SruAR, Assistant Collector."

UNITED STATES v. MACK.
480

483

Opinion of the Court

trial on January.26, 1931, and upon a plea of guilty were
sentenced. The vessel, however, was not returned by the
owner, either then or at any other time, to the custody
of the .collector. Accordingly, on July 19, 1933. the
United States of America filed its complaint against principal and surety to recover upon the bondclaiming $1,100,
the value of the vessel, with interest from the date of the
breach of the condition. A motion to dismiss the complaint was made in April. 1934, the defendants nontending that through the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment on December 5, 1.933; liability on the bond had
ended. The motion was granted by the District Court,
6 F. Supp. 839, and the Couit of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed. 73 F. (2d) 265. A writ'"of certiorari
brings the case here.
Penalties and' forfeitures imposed by the National Prohibition Act for offenses committed withiri the territorial
limits of a state fell with the adoption of the Twenty-first
Amendment. United States V.Chambers, 291 IT.S. 217,
Our holding to that effect was confined to criminal liabilities, and had its genesis in an ancient 'rule. On the other
hand, contractual liabilities connected with the&.kct continued to.be enforcible with undiminis hed bbligation, unless conditioned bi their tenor,-either expressly or otherwise, upon forfeitures or penalties frustrated by tbp
Amendment. The courts belowhave held that. liability
upon the bond in suit. was-conditioned by implication upon
the possibility in law of subjecting the d6linquent vessel
to forfeiture and sale, and that the possibility must be
unbroken down to the recovery of judgment'against the
delinquent obligors. In opposition to that hblding the
Government contends that the bond is a contract to be
enforced according to its terms; that liability became
complete upon, the breach of the express condition for the
return of the delinquent vessel; and that the. liability thus
perfected was not extinguished or diminished by tbe

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S

loss of penal sanctions. We think the Government is
right.
By the provisions of the Prohibition Act an officer who
seizes a vessel :or other conveyance transporting intoxicating liquors must deliver it to the owner upon the
execution of "a good and valid bond, with sufficient sureties, in a sum double the value of the property," to be
approved by the officer and to be "conditioned to return
said property to the custody of. said officer on the day of
trial to abide ihe judgment' of the court." National Prohibition Act, c. 85; 41 Stat. 305, 315, § 26; 27 U. S. C.
§ 40. No other condition is expressed in the statute. No
other, we think, is to be implied. One of the essentials
of jurisdiction in rem is that the thing shall be "actually
or constructively within the reach of the court." The
Brig Ann, 9 .Cranch 289, 291; and see Miller v. United
States, 11 Wall. 268, 294; Strong v. United States, 46 F.
(2d) 257, 260. If the'defendants -had, lived up to the
requirements of the bond, the'court would have been ,in
a position after the plea of guilty by the crew to proceed
against the vessel forthwith and in a summary way. The
Harbour Trader, 42 F. (2d) 858. Without the presence
of the vessel that opportunity would be. lost: To give
assurance that it would pot be lost the bond was exated
-by the statute and- delivered by the owner. In the face
of-all this the argument is pressed that delay has extin*guished the remedy on the bond by putting an end to. the
possibility of. going against the boat. -Thus the obligation is destroyed by force of the very contingency against
which it was designed to give protection. We find no adequate reason for thus rewarding an offender. If the'condition had not been brokell, the Government would have
received the value of the vessel, or at least that .result
would- have ensued for anything to the contrary shown
in this record. Principal and surety covenanted that in

UNITED STATES v. MACK
480

Opinion of the Court.'

the event of such a default the bond should become payable according to its terms. They must be held to their
-engagement. Cf. United States v. John Barth Co., 279
U. S. 370; Gulf States Steel Co. v. United States, 287
U. S. 32; United Staies v: Hodson, 10 Wall. 395, 409;
Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415.
We have said that. the bond may not be read by a
pr6cess of construction as subject to conditions not expressed upon its face. In saying that we have no thought
to pass upon the quantum of a recovery thereunder.
There are' decisions of other courts to the effect that the
bond is one of indemnity, so that only the damages actually suffered by the omission to produce the boat for
surrender at the appointed time-will be owing upon default. See United States v. Warnell, 67 F. (2d) 831, 832;
United States v. Randall, 58 F. (2d) 193, 194; cf. UnitedStates v. Zerbey, 271 U. S. 332, 340. If that is so, there
is always the possibility of proving in mitigation or defense that the boat and those in charge of her were innocent, and hence there was no loss. We leave those questions open. It is one thing to show that. if the boat had
been on hand at the appointed _time, no benefit to the
Government would have resulted from her presence.
Cf. Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall. 366, 369. It is quite
another thing to show that there was damage at the date
of breach, and damage for which the Government would
have a remedy if the bdat had been produced, but that
owing to changed circutnstances it would be useless to
produce her now. Neither in the bond nor in the statute
is there a disclosure of a willingness that the principal
shall be thus permitted to take advantage of his wrong.
We are told that the bond is only a substitute for the
vessel "and-hence is not enforceable unless there could be a
decree in rem -if the vessel were in court today. To speak
of the bond as such a substitute is -only a half truth. Un-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

doubtedly the reason for the exaction of the bond was to
put the Government in as good a position as it would have
occupied if the res had been present at the time of the
criminal trial, but this is far from saying that liability
was meant to be conditioned upon control of the res thereafter as a continuing possibility. A bond such as this
*one has very little analogy to a form of bond common in
the admiralty whereby the stipulators become bound to
"pcay the amount awarded b~y the final decree." Cf.
The Belgenland, 108 U. S. 153; The City of Norwich, 118
U. S. 468, 489. Upon a bond so conditioned the liability
of the stipulators is inchoate until perfected by a decree
for the disposition of the res or of the proceeds of the
bond accepted as a substitute. Here, on the contrary,
the remedy is at law by an action on a contract, and not
in rem or quasi in rem as if a suit had been brought in
admiralty or in equity. The existence or non-existence
of a cause of action at law growing out of a civil liability
having its origin in contract is commonly dependent upon
the state of facts existing when the action was begun.
There is nothing to bring this case within any recognized
exception.
Both sides make much of the analogy supplied by the
responsibility of bail. The analogy exists, though if is far
from being complete. Its implications give support on the
whole to the position of the Government. At common
law bail might be exonerated as of right by the surrender
of their principal if their, liability had not yet been
"fixed." There was much' learned disquisition as to the
time when that event occurred. To avoid confusion of
thought a distinction must be drawn between civil and
crihinal ca-es, for tie function of bail in each is
essentially diverse. United States v. Ryder, 110 U. S.
729, 736.
The rule i,. civil cases was that bail wee not liable
uitil a return of nuwt est wz&entw1s to a c'u. sa. against the

TTNITED STATES v. MACK.
480

Opinion of the Court.

principal. Cholmley v. Veal, 6 Mod. 304; Bernard v.
McKenna, 3 Fed. Cas., No. 1348; Pearsall v. Lawrence,
3 Johns. 514; 1 Tidd's Practice, 237, 238.2' Upon such
return liability was fixed, but not definitively and beyond
remission. A first writ of scire facias must have issued,
and in certain contingencies an alias writ, before the bail
were to be cast in judgment. Kirk v. United States, 137
Fed. 753, 755; McCombs v. Feeter, 1 Wend. 19; Cumming
v. Eden, 1 Cow. 70; 2 Tidd's Practice, 1038, 1039, 1040.
By the indulgence, of the court they might surrender the
principal until the return day, of the last writ, after which
their liability became definitive and absolute. Mannin v.
Partridge, 14 East 599, 600; Beers v. Haughton, 9 Pet.
329, 358. But remission of liability, even within 'those
limits, was matter of indulgence only. 1 Tidd's Practice,
238, 239; 2 id., 1044. "To many purposes, the bail is
considered as fixed by the return of the ca. sa." .Marshall,
Ch. J., ih Davidson v. Taylor, 12 Wheat. 604. If surrender was allowable thereafter the privilege was given
"as matter of favour, and not as matter pleadable in bar."
Ibid. The court would exercise a, sound discretion.
Morsell v. Hall, 13 How. 212, 215. Accordingly the practice was to treat the liability as absolute if the situation
lid so changed that the bail were no longer able to make
an effectual surrender,' as where before the return of the
scire facias the principal had died. "All the cases agree,
that after the bail are fixed, de jure, they take the risk of
the death of the principal. . . . The time which is
allowed the bail, ex gratia,is at their peril, and they-must
surrender." Kent, Ch. J., in Olcott v. Lilly, 4 Johns. 407,
408. "In such a case the bail is .considered as fixed by the
21.

the reason of ii is, that I am not bound to render the

principal till I know what execution the plainttff will chuse; whether

he will chuse to have his body. which he makes appear by suing
a capias; for he might have sued an elegit or 7.,fa'" Holt, Ch.3.,
in Cholmley v. Veal. supra, at p.815.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

return of the ca. sa., and his [the principal's] death afterwards, anl before the return of the scire facias, does not
entitle the bail to an eioneretur." Davidson v.. Taylqr,
supra. Cf. United States v. Costello, 47 F. (2d) 684, 686;
Detroit Fidelity& Surety Co. v. United States, 59 F. (2d)
565, 568; 2 Tidd's Practice, 1044. To follow this analogy
through in its application to the case at hand: the respondents are no longer able-by a surrender of the vessel
to neutralize the consequences flowing from their default.
Surrender after condition broken was never a strict
defense. It has ceased in the present circumstances to
commend the offenders to favor and indulgence. The forfeiture must stand.
If from civil cases we pass to criminal, the argument
from analogy becomes even weaker for the- respondents,
and stronger for the Government. No longer is there need
for a return to a ca. sa. The bail axe bound at once upon
the principal's default. "If the condition of the bail bond
is broken by the failure of the principal to appear, the
sureties become the absolute debtors of the United States
for the amount of the penalty." United States v. Zarafonitis, 150 Fed. 97, 99; United States v. Van Fossen, 28
Fed. Cas., No. 16,607, at p. 358; People v. Anable, 7 Hill
(N. Y.) 33: Collection .may be enforced either by scire
facias in the court which has possession of the record or
by an ordinary suit in'any other court of competent jurisdiction. United States v. Zarafonitis, supra; cf. Davis v.
Packard, 7 Pet. 276, 285. True, an appeal ad misericordiam may result; as with civil bail, in a remission of
the penalty. This power of remission has been exercised
from distangt times both in the English courts (King v.
Tomb, 10 Mod. 278; In re Pellow, 13 Price 299) and here.
United States v. Kelleher; 57 -F. (2d) 684. For the courts
of the United States it is now regulated by statute.
R: S. §,1020; 18 U. S. C. § 601. One of the prescribed

UNITED STATES v. MACK.
480

Opinion of the Court.

conditions is that a trial can still be had. This appears
from the statute which is quoted in the margin.3 The
trial, of course, must be a reality, not the shadow of A
name. At best, remission of the forfeiture is granted as
an act of grace. The remedy for that reason is by motion
or petiti6n, not by answer and a plea in bar. Detroit
Fidelity .- Surety Co. v. United States, supra, at 568;
United States v. Costello, supra; Southern Surety Co. v.
United States, 23 F. (2d) 55; United States v. Dunbar,
83 Fed. 151; Hardy .v. United States, 71 Fed. 158. The
respondents do not appeal for grace, if it be assumed that
grace has any place in the enforcement of such a liability
,as theirs. They defend upon the ground that the obligation it extinguished.
The point is faintly made that the Government was at
fault in failing to- bring suit more promptly after the
breach of the condition. The complaint was filed in July,
1933, while the Prohibition Act was still in force. Laches
within the term. of the statute of limitations is no defense
at law. Cross v. Allen, 141 U. S. 528, 537; Sprigg v. Bank
of Mt. Pleasant, 14 Pet. 201, 207. Least of all is it a defense to an action by the sovereign. United States v.
Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, 735, 736; Dox v. Postmaster
General, 1 Pet. 318, 325.
The judgment is rekversed and the cause remanded -for
further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
3"When any recognizance in a criminal cause, taken for, or in, or
returnable to, any court of the United States, is forfeited by a breach
of the condition thereof, such court may, in its discretion, .remit the
whole or a part of the penalty, whenever it appears to the court
that there has been no willful default of the party, and that a trial
can, notwithstanding, be had in the cause, and that public justice
does not otherwise require the same penalty to'be enforced."
Cf. New York Code of .Criminal Procedure, §§ 595, 597."

