WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
441

Syllabus.

prepare his argument accordingly. He had no opportunity to argue from the record that guilt was not a reasonable inference, or one permitted by the Constitution, on
the basis of that test any more than on the basis of others
discarded as unfitting. Cf. Fiske v. Kansas, supra. The
argument thus shut out is submitted to us now. Will men
"judging in calmness" (Brandeis, J., in Schaefer v. United
States, supra, at p. 483) say of the defendant's conduct #s
shown forth in the pages of this record that it was an
attempt to stir up revolution through the power of his
persuasion and within the time when that persuasion
might be expected to endure? If men so judging will
say yes, will the Constitution of the United States uphold
a reading of the statute that will lead to that response?
Those are the questions that the defendant lays before
us after conviction of a crime punishable by death in the
discretion of the jury. I think he should receive an
answer.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs and MR.-JuSTICE STONE join in

this opinion.
WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN,
No. 15, original.

Argued February 11,, 1935 and April 8, 1935.Decided May 20, 1935.

1. Where errors in the courses and distances in a decree describing
the boundary between two States were due to the mutual mistake
of counsel for the parties in preparing the decree for acceptance
by the Court, the Court has jurisdiction to correct them in a
subsequent suit between the same parties. P. 460.
2. A decree declaring the.boundary of two States does not deprive
the Court of jurisdiction thereafter to define, in a later suit between them, a portion of the boundary, the precise location of
which was not an issue in the earlier litigation. P. 460.
3. The descriptions of the Green Bay section of the Michigan and
Wisconsin boundary, the one given by the Act creating Wisconsin

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
295 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

Territory (April 20, 1836) as ". .. to a point in the middle of

said'lake [Michigan], and opposite the main channel of Green
Bay, and through said channel and Green Bay to the mouth of
the Menomonie river . . .", and the other by the Enabling Act
(June 15, 1836) by which Michigan became a State, as "...

thence, down the centre of the main channel of the same [Menominee River], to the centre of the most usual ship channel of
the Green Bay of Lake Michigan; thence, through the centre of
the most usual ship channel of the said bay to the middle of Lake
Michigan . . .," are in effect the same.

P. 460.

4. The evidence establishes that when these Acts were passed, there
was no "main"

or "most usual ship"

channel in Green Bay;

that it is impossible to identify any channel as the one intended
by the Acts, and that neither State has exercised jurisdiction over
the waters of the bay that are now in controversy (lying to the
west of islands adjudicated to Wisconsin in an earlier case, 270 U. S.
314). Held:
(1) That in accordance with the principles of international law,
the presumed intent of Congress and the equality of the States
under the Constitution, the two States should be allowed equal
opportunities for navigation, fishing, and other uses. P. 461.
(2) To this end, the boundary will be established through and
along, or near, the middle of the waters of the bay that are here in
controversy. P. 462.
5. Tracts called "Grassy Island" and "Sugar Island," in fact parts
of the Michigan mainland, are adjudged to that State. P. 463.
6. The case is referred to the special master for preparation of the
decree. P. 463.

THIS original suit to establish a part of the boundary
between the two States was heard on exceptions to the
report of the Special Master. An earlier case between the
same parties is reported in 270 U. S. 295.
Mr. Adolph J. Bieberstein, with whom Mr. James E.

Finnegan,Attorney General of Wisconsin, Mr. Joseph G.
Hirschberg, Deputy Attorney General, and Mr. J. E.
Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General, were on the
brief, for plaintiff.

WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
455

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Meredith P. Sawyer, with whom Mr. Harry S. Toy,
Attorney General of Michigan, and Mr. Edward A.
Bilitzke, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief,
for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case concerns the Green Bay section of the boundary between these States. In Michigan v. Wisconsin, 270
U. S. 295, the entire boundary was involved. As to that
section, the question was whether islands within the bay
and other islands surrounded by its waters and those of
Lake Michigan belonged to one or the other State. The
territory of Wisconsin was created by an Act of April 20,
1836, c. 54, 5 StaL 10. The stretch of boundary in ques... to a point in the middle of said
tion is described:
lake [Michigan], and opposite the main channel of Green
Bay, and through said channel and Green Bay to the
mouth of the Menomonie river...." . By the Enabliig
Act of June 15, 1836, c. 99, 5 Stat. 49. under which
Michigan became a State, January 26, 1837, it is described in the reverse direction: " .... thence, down'the
centre of the main channel of the same [Menominee
river], to the centre of the most usual ship channel of
the Green bay of Lake Michigan; thence, through the
centre of the most usual ship channel of the said bay to
the middle of Lake Michigan . ."
As to the section there *involved,we said:
"In determining the boundary through'this section,
the question is not embarrassed by differences of description. [p. 314] . . . The evidence shows that
there are two distinct- ship channels, to either of which
this description might apply. From the mouth of the
Menominee, the channel, according to the Michigan
claim, proceeds across the waters of Green Bay in an

458

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

easterly direction until near the westerly shore of the,
Door County peninsula; thence, in close proximity to the
shore, in a northerly direction to a point opposite Death's
Door Channel (or Porte des Morts); thence through that
channel into Lake Michigan. The channel claimed by
Wisconsin, after leaving the mouth of the Menominee,
turns to the north and pursues a northerly direction to a
point opposite the Rock Island passage which lies between
Rock Island and St. Martin's Island; thence through the
Rock Island passage into Lake Michigan, The territory
in dispute lies between these rival channels, and embraces
two groups of islands: (1) Chambers Island, the Strawberry Islands, and a few others, small and unnamed, all
within the main waters of Green Bay west of the Door
County peninsula; and (2)' Rock, Washington, Detroit
and Plum'islands, lying between Death's Door Channel
and the Rock Island passage, at the north end of the
peninsula. The evidence as- to which of the' two ship
channels was the usual one at the time of the adoption of
the Michigan Enabling Act is not only conflicting, but
of such inconclusive character that, standing alone, we
could base no decree upon it with any., feeling of certainty. [p: 315] . . . But, it is not necessary, for
the title of Wisconsin to the disputed area now in question, is established by long possession and acquiescence;
and this dnclusion is justified by evidence and concessions of the most substantial character. [p. 316] . . .
The result is that complainant has failed to maintain her
case in any particular; and that the claims' of Wisconsin
as to the location of the boundary in each of the three
sections are sustained." p. 319.
The decree (272 U. S. 398) defines the section:
"thence down the center of the main channel of the . . .
Menominee, to +he center:of the harbor entrance of said
Menominee River, thence in a direct line to the most
usual ship channel of Green Bay, passing to the north of

WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
455

.Opinion of the Court.

Green Island and westerly of Chambers Island and
through the Rock Island Passage into Lake Michigan, by
courses and distances as follows: From a point midway

between the outer ends of the -Menominee River piers,
thence east by south, seven and one-half miles to the center of the most usual ship channel of the Green ,Bay;
thence, along said ship channel north by east one-eighth
east, eight and. seven-6ighths miles, thence continuing
along said ship channel iiorth by east seven-eighths east,
twenty-seven miles, thence. continuing along said- ship
channel, east one-fourth north, ten and one-fourth miles,
thence east three-fourths north to the boundary between
the State of Michigan and- the State of Wisconsin in the
middle of Lfike Michigan."
Michigan concedes that the first distance fhould be
seven and one-eighth instead of seven and one-half -miles.
Wisconsin insists that the first course should be elimi-"
nated and a more northerly one substituted for it. The
parties agree that the third course -was intended to be
"northeast seven-eighths east" instead of "north by east
seven-eighths east." Wisconsin claims that, even if corrected as to the course and distance, mentioned, the description would, deprive her of about 35 miles of fishing
area opposite the city of Menominee, which, as she says,
has always been under her jurisdiction. And she prays
that this description be changed so as to read:
"to the Outer end of the piers at Menominee being the
center of,the harbor entrance of said Menominee River,
thence in a direct line to a point half-way from Chamb6 ;,
Island to the Michigan mainland measured from the
water's edge at the narrowest channel; thence in a -direct
line to the west end of the Whaleback Shoal; thence in a
direct line to a point half-way from* the water's edge
adjacent to Boyer's'Bluff to the water's edge on the Michigan mainlaftd at-the mouith of-Bark River; thence in a
direct line to a point half-wa from the water's edge at

.460'

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

Boyer's Bluff to Driscoll Shoal; thence in a direct line to
the light on St. Martin's ShoAl; thence east three-quarters
north to the boundary between the State of Michigan and
the State of Wisconsin in the middle of Lake Michigan."
We appointed iFrederick F. Faville special master.
And, in accordance with our order, he has taken the evidence, made fidfdings of fact, stated his conclusions of law
and recommendations for, a decree, all of which, with a
transcript of the testihiony, the maps. charts and other
exhibits, are included in the report he has submitted to the
court.
'Michigan, while conceding the court nas power to make
th.e decree correspond with the opinibn in Michigan v.
Wisconsin, asserts that the boundary line here in controversy was involved in the former case and suggests that
the court is without jurisdiction tb establish any other
line. The evidence shows, and the master found: After
announcement of our decision, couhsel for the parties
agreed upon a form of decree to carry it into effect and
consented that it be entered. Due to mutual mistakes, it
was erroneous in the respects above indicated, and because
of their consent -it was adopted -and entered by the court.
The'location of the boundary line dividing the waters of
the bay between the States was not in issue. No evidence
was offered for the determination of that question. It was
all addressed to the controversy concerning the islandsthe matter then in dispute. The master rightly concluded
the court has jurisdiction to, correct the decree (Thompson
v. Maxwell, 9 U. S. 391, 397, 399) and to establish the'
true boundary line through Green Bay' Hopkins v. Lee,
6 Wheat. 109, 113, 114. Oklahoma v. Texas, 256 U. S.
'10, 86.
The parties rightly assume that there is no difference
between the .description of the boundary through Green
Bay given in the Act creating Wisconsin Territory and
that specified in the Michigan Enabling Act. 270 U. S.

WISCONSIN v. MICHIGAN.
455

Opiion of the Court.

314. The evidence shows,, and the mester found: When
these Acts were passed, -there was no "main" "or"' most
usual ship" channel. Movements of sailing vessels, then
used, were not limited to any channel and, except to avoid
islands, shoals and reefs, they went directly to their destinations. Ships came and went *between Lake Michigan
and Green Bay to and from the mouth of 'the Menominee,
and the southerly end of the bay, the site of the city- of
Green. Bay. They passed east and west of Chambers
Island and through the Strawberry passage. .Neither
State has ever exercised jurisdiction over the triangular
area at the mouth of the Menominee or over any other
waters of the bay that are now in controversy.
'Asit is impossible to identify any channel in the bay
as that indicated by the Acts referred to, the intention of
Congress must be otherwise ascertained. By principles
of international law, that apply also to boundaries
between States constituting this country, it is w61
established that when a .navigable"stream is a boundary
between States the middle of the -main channel, as distinguislied from the geographical middle, limits the jurisdiction of each *unless -otherwise fixed by agreement or
understanding between the parties. That rule rests upon
equitable considerations and is intended to safeguard to
each State equality of aocess and right of navigation in
the stream. Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S.1, 7. 'This court
has held that, on occasion, the principle of the thalweg is
also applicable to bays, estuaries and*other arms of the
sea. Louisiana v. Mississippi,202 U..S. 1, 50. New Jersey v. Delaware,291 'U. S. 361, 379. "The doctrine of the
thalweg is a modification of the more ancient principle
which required equal division of territory, and was adopted
in order to preserve to each State equality of right. in the
beneficial uses of the boundary streams as a means of
navigation. Minnesota v. Wisconsin, 252 U. S. .27.3, 282,
No right of either party to use thb waters of the bay for

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

navigation is here involved. Questions of territorial jurisdiction in respect of fishing constitute the occasion of
the present controversy. And it confidently may be assumed that, when fixing the boundary lines in the waters
of the bay, Congress intended that Michigan and the State
to be erected out of Wisconsin Territory should have
equality of right and opportunity in respect of these
waters, including navigation, fishing and other uses. On
the facts found, equality of right can best be attained by
a.division of the area as nearly equal as conveniently may
be made, having regard to the matters heretofore litigated
and finally adjudged between these States. The rule that
the States stand on an equal level or plane under our constitutional system (Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S.419,
465, 470) makes in favor of that construction of the
boundary provisions under consideration. Cf. Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S.660, 670.
The pleadings reflect opposing claims as to the title to
some part of traits called "Grassy Island," and "Sugar
Island," bordering on the north bank, and a short distance
from the mouth, of the Menominee river. The master
found that neither is an island and that each is a part
of the mainland of Michigan, and concluded that both
belong to that State. Wisconsin does not except to any
of the findings or conclusions in respect of these tracts.
The decree to be entered in this case will establish the
boundary through and along, or near, the middle of the
waters of Green bay that are here involved. That line
commences at a point midway between the piers at the
harbor entrance-of the Menominee River; thence east by
south seven and one-eighth miles; thence approximately
north by east one-eighth east, about eight and seveneighths-&miles; thence-to and along a line in or near the
middle of the bay io a point west of the Rock Island pas-sage; thence easterly-by courses and distances to be designated through that passage to the boundary in th- "'d-

UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.
455

463

Syllabus.

dle of Lake Michigan. The decree will appropriately define the tr'acts called "Grassy Island" and "Sugar
Island" and declare them to belong to Michigan.
The case is referred to the special master, and he is directed to prepare and submit to the court a form of decree which will give effect to this decision. Inasmuch as
the preparation of the decree may involve the ascertainment of physical facts and the formulation of technical
descriptions, the master is authorized-to hear counsel, take
evidence and procure such assistance, if any, as.may be
necessary to enable him conveniently and promptly to
discharge the duties here imposed upon him. He may
call upon counsel to propose forms of decree. He is directed to give them opportunity to submit objections to
the form prepaI'ed by him and to include the objections,
if any, in his report.
It is so ordered.
UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA ET AL.
ON MOTIONS TO DISMISS THE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. 17, original. Argued May 2, 1935.-Decided. May 20, 1935.
1. The original jurisdiction of this Court over suii. brought by the
United States against a State is only of -those cases 'which are
within the judicial power of the United States as defined by
Art. III, ยง 2, of the Constitution. P. 470.
2. The original jurisdiction of this Court doF not include suits by
the United States against persons or corporations alone. Id:
3. To sustain jurisdiction over a suit brought in this Court by the
United States against a-State, the bill must present a "case" or
"controversy "'to which the State is a party ind which is within
the judicial power cf the United States. Id.
4 In a suit by the Urited States against a State and private corporations, to enjoin the construction by the latter nf a dam forming
part of a hydro-electric project, the bill alleged .the stream in
question to be a navigable water of "the United States, and that
the dam would be an unlawful obstruction, since it had not been

