OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

YOUNGSTOWN SHEET & TUBE CO.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

295 U. S.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 552. Argued April 30, 1935.-Decidcd May 20, 1935.
1. A shipper claiming that an order of the interstate Commerce
Commission infringes his right to reasonable and nondiscriminatory
rates, and who was a party to the proceeding before the Commission; is entitled to sue to set the order aside under U. S. C., Title 2S,
§§ 46 and 47. P. 479.
2. In determining the reasonableness of a rate, the Commission may
consider its effect upon an existing rate structure which it has
,found to be just and reasonable. - P. 479.
3. Comparisons with other rates 'in the same or adjacent territory,
though not conclusive of the reasonableness of the rate umder investigation, have probative value. P. 480.
4. An order of the Commission fixing 'minimum rates on ex-river
,coal from points on the Ohio River to destinations in Northern
Ohio, upon a finding that the minima fixed are reasonable and
that lower rates would create discrimination against shippers in
origin districts who can not use the water-rail route, and would
tend to disrupt the rate structure and destroy prdper differentials
between various producing districts,--held essentially an order
uniier § 15, rather than § 3, of the Interstate Commerce Act.
P. 480.
7 F. Supp. 33, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court, of three

judges, dismissing a suit to annul an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Messrs. J. C. Argetsinger, J. E. Bennett, and August C. Gutheim were
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and
Messrs. Elmer B. Collins and Nelson Thomas were on the

YOUNGSTOWN CO. v. UNITED STATES. 477
476

Opinioh of the Court.

brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce
Commission, appelleei.
Mr. John J. Fitzpatrick, with whom Messrs. Leo P.
Day, M. CarterHail, Guernsey Orcutt, Charles.R Webber, and FredericD; McKenney were on the brief, for the
railroad interveners.
Mr.-Alex. M. Bull, with whom Mr. Henry C. Hall was
on'the brief, -for the Trustees of Consolidation Coal Co.,
appellees.
M. 'JuSTCE RoBERTs delivered the 6pinion of the
Court.
This is a suit for the annulment of an order of the
Interstate Commerce. Commission fxing minimum rates
pn ex-river coal from Ohio. Riyer points to destinations
'in Nothern Ohio. The District Court entered a decree
of dismissal.1 The appellants attack the rate order as
based upon matters the Commission had no authority
to consider, and as unsupported by evidence. ' The appellees oppose these charges and add that the appellants
have no standing to maintain the suit.
Improvement.of navigation on the Ohio Rivei: and its
tributaries has recently made possible shipment of coal
in barges from mines at or near the streams to river
destinations, for use there or for transshipment by rail
to inland points. Previously these mines, with others
in the same producing territory, -were dependent upon
the railroads, and a system of rate relationships-had been
built up as between the producing localities.
In anticipation of shipment of coal from river points,
the rail carriers filed schedules proposing a proportional
rate of $1.02 on carloads from Conway And Colona, points
on the Ohio River in Pennsylvania, to Youngstown, Ohio,
'7 F. Supp. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the- Court.

295 U. S.

effective May .15, 1929. Th6 Commission suspended
them, and instituted an investigation. It found the proposed rate unreasonable, and declared a reasonable maximum would be 77 cents; but contented itself with ordering the scheduled rate of $1.02 cancelled, and did not
require that a maximum rate of 77 cents be adopted.2
Subsequently the Commission held an investigation respecting proposed schedules of rates on ex-river coal from
points farther down the Ohio River to Canton, Massillon,
Cleveland, Lorain and South Lorain, Ohio. It cancelled
these and found lower rates would be reasonable, but did
not prescribe them.' Upon the carriers' compliance with
the views of the Commission, by the establishment of
the suggested rates, tonnage began to move in quantity.
Meantime the Ohio Public Utilities Commission permitted and authorized reductions in intrastate coal rates,
with the result that the Interstate Commerce Commission
instituted a 13th section proceeding, found the interstate
rail rates from the Pittsburgh and Connellsville districts to
Northeastern Ohio destinations' reasonable, and required.
the restoration of the old intrastate rates to avoid discrimination against interstate commerce.' While that proceeding was pending, certain carriers prayed a rehearing
of the two x-river cases above mentioned. This was
granted, the cases consolidated, further evidence received
and an order made in which the rate from Colona and
Conway to Youngstown was fixed at not less than 90
cents, that from the lower river points to Canton and
MassillQn at not less than $1.20, and to Cleveland and
Lorain at not less than $1.45.1
2163-I.'C. C. 3.
3165 I. C. .211.
']92 I. C. C. 413.
"292 U. S. 498.
" 1971. C. C. 617.

This order was sustained, 6 F. Supp. 386;

YOUNGSTOWN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
476

479

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission finds: These prescribed minima are
reasonable; lower rates would create undue discrimination against shippers in origin districts who cannot use
the water-rail route, and would tend to disrupt the rate
structure, and to destroy the.proper differentials between
various producing districts on shipments to Ohio destina-,
tions. These findings have ample support in the evidence.
1. The appellants were entitled to bring and maintain
this suit to.set aside the order.' They were partieg to 'the
proceeding before the .Commission, had a.pecuniary interest in the rates and were affected by the order. The
authorities cited by the appellees are to be distinguished
on the ground that the plaintiffs either had no legal interest or capacity to sue or failed to allege that the rates
under attack were unreasonable or discriminated against
them:
2. The appellants' principal complaint is that the Commission raised the permissible minimum rate to prevent
disruption of the existing rate structure and relatioriship
of rates for carriage from various producing regions to
Ohio destinations, and that an order grounded upon any
such consideration is unauthorized and violates the principle announced in United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. &
P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 499. The position is not well taken.
This record exhibits a situation quite distinct from that
-U. S. C. Tit. 28, §§ 46, 47; Skinner & Eddy Corp. v. United
'States, 249 U. S. 557; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 266269; United States v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533, 541; Western
Paper Makers' Chemical Co. v. United States, 271 U. S. 268;
Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564; McLean Lumber Co. v. United
States, 237 Fed. 460, 464-468; Anchor Coal Co. v. United States,
25 F. (2d) 462, 478.
T
See United States v. M. & M. Traffic Assn., 242 U. S. 178;
Edward Hines Yellow Pine Trustees v. United States, 263 U. S. 143;
Sprunt & Son, Inc. v. United States, 281 U. S. 249; Moffat Tunnel
League v. United States, 289 U. S. 113.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
295-U. S.

Syllabus.

disclosed in the cited case. -In the first place the Commissi6n here found the required minimum reasonable; in the
second place, it had, after full investigation in this ana
the Ohio case,' held the existing rate structure-built upon
certain reasonable key or controlling rates by application
of proper differentials--just and reasonable, and the exriver rates here in issue, in cohtrast, too low. Comparisons
of other rates in the same or adjacent territory, while not
a conclusive test of reasonableness of a rate under investigation,-have probative value.9 There was much bther evidence bearing upon the character of the service and cost.
The order of the Commission was based .primarily upon
the r.asonableness of the minimum prescribed. The existing rate structure furnished support for the finding of
reasonableness.
3. There is no merit in the contention that the order
was a § -8 order and invalid for failure to afford the carriers An alternative of raising the contested rate of lowering others to remove discrimination. It is true the C6mmission found prejudice to shippers all rail, but in essence
the order entered was a § 15 order and not one made
under § 3.10
Decree affirmed.
UNITED STATES v: MACK

ET A.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND.CIRCUIT.

No. 693,

Argued May 1, 2, 1935.--Decided May 20, 1935.

1. Liability on a. bond executed pursuant to § 26, Title II of the
National Prohibition Act by the owner of a vessel seized while
being used in the transportation of intoxicating liquors was conSupra, Note 4.

'United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 288 U. S. 490, 500.
' Compare St. Lozds Southwestern Ry. Po. v. United Staut, 245
U. S. 136, 145.

