UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.

103

Syllabus.

100

of the case to which the challenged statute is sought to
be applied.
Nor should this Court undertake to determine the constitutional validity of the statute upon such quiestions.
as those which have been certified. If this Court were to
deal Nith the case in its present stage it "vould be necessary to order up the entire record, so that the allegations
of the bill, and the case as presented to the District Court,.
could be properly considered. That course would merely
bring before this Court the interlocutory order and would
result in unnecessary delay in the final. determination
of the cause. The certificate is therefore
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 2.

Argued October 8, 1934.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. By a treaty of 1833, and patent, the United States conveyed to
the Creek Tribe of Indians in fee simple a large tract of land.
By treaty of. 1866, the Creeks seceded half of the tract, the United
States undertaking to survey the dividing line and guaranteeing
the Creeks quiet possession of the other. part. The survey, made
in 1871, was recognized in an agreement between the Tribe and the
United States, Act of March 1, 1889. By error of the Land
Department, part of the unceded land was included (1872-73) in
the survey of a tract assigned to the Sac and Fox Indians undera treaty of 1867; and later, in carrying out an agreement with
those Indians, embodied in the Act of February 13, 1891, by which
their lands weie receded to the United States, the Creek lands so
surveyed with them were erroneously assumed to be part of the
Sac and Fox recession, and due to such error, were disposed of
under the last 'mentioned agreement, partly by allotments in sev-eralty to the Sacs and Foxes and partly by. sales to settlers; and
such dispusit.ns were effectuated by patents signed by the President. The United States.retained the proceeds of the dispusitions.
Held:

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

295 U. S.

(1) That the claim of the Creek Tribe for compensation was a
claim "arising under or growing out of" a "treaty or agreement"
between the United States and that Tribe, or "arising under or
growing out of" an "Act of Congress in relation to Indian Affairs,"/-within the meaning of the Act of May 24, 1924, conferring
jurisdiction on the Court of Claims to adjudicate. P. 108.
(2) The lands were appropriated by the United States in circumstances which involved an implied undertaking by it to make
just compensation to the Creek Tribe. P. 109.
(3) The taking was accomplished, not by the erroneous survey
(1873), but by the disposals under the Act of 1891. P. 111.
(4) Though the disposals rested upon an erroneous application
of the Act of 1891, that application was in effect confirmed by the
United States, so that the matter stands as if the Act had directed
the disposals. P. 111.
(5) Compensation should be based, not on the value of the lands
at the time of the erroneous survey nor at the time of bringing the
suit, but on the value at time of the disposals, with reasonable
interest added, as a measure, to make ul the full equivalent of
value paid contemporaneously with the taking. P. 11'.
(6) As shown by the past agreements between the parties, a
reasonable rate of interest is 5%. P. 112.
2. Property of an Indian Tribe under guardianship of the United
States cannot constitutionally be appropriated by the United States
without just compensation. P. 110.
77 Ct. Cls. 159, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 616, to review a judgment against
the United States on a claim of the Creek Tribe of
Indians.
Assistant Attorney General Sweeney, with whom Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Blair,and
Messrs. George T. Stormont and Wilfred Hearn were on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. W. 'W. Spalding, with whom Messrs. E. J.
Van Court and Paul M. Niebell were on the brief, for
respondent.

UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.
103

105

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit by the Creek Nation or Tribe of Indians
against the United States to recover compensation for
certain lands of that tribe charged to have been appropriated by the United States. The tribe obtained a judgment and we granted a petition by the United States for
certiorari. The suit was brought in 1926 under the act
of May 24, 1924, c. 181, 43 Stat. 139, which declares:
"That jurisdiction be, and is hereby, conferred upon
the Court of Claims, notwithstanding the lapse of time or
statutes of limitation, to hear, examine, and adjudicate
and render judgment in any and all legal and- equitable
claims arising under or growing out-of any treaty or agreement between the United States and the Creek Indian
Nation or Tribe, or arising under or growing out of any
Act of Congress in relation to Indian affairs, which said
Creek Nation or Tribe may have against the United
States, which claims have not heretofore been determined
and adjudicated on their merits by the Court of Claims or
the Supreme Court of the United States."
In the colrse of the suit the United States set up certain
cross-demands and recovered judgment thereon; but the
judgment on the .tribe's claim is all that is challenged now.
The principal facts relating to that claim were conceded
below, as shown by the court's opinion and findings, and
stand unquestioned here.
Under a treaty of 1833 ' the United States granted to
the Creek Tribe, by a patent conveying a fee simple, a
large tract of land in Indian Territory, now Oklahoma.
By a treaty of 1866 2 the Creeks ceded to the United
States the westerly half of that tract, but expressly re1

Treaty of February 14, 1833, Arts. 2 and 3, 7 Stat. 417.

'T.ieaty of June 14, 1866, Arts.1 and 8, 14 Stat. 785, 786, 788.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

tained the easterly half; and the United States stipulated
it would cause a north and south line separating the ceded
from the unceded lands to be surveyed 'under the direction
of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and guaranteed
to the Creeks quiet possession of their unceded lands.
In 1871 one Bardwell, acting under the direction of 'the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, surveyed the divisional
line. A controversy soon arose as to whether the line
was surveyed too*far to the east, and thereby encroached
on unceded lands of the Creeks; but that controversy, if
not terminated before, was put to rest and the line effectively recognized by an agreement made between the
Creek Tribe and the United States in, 1889,' wherein the
tribe's ownership of the lands, east of that line was expressly recognized.
In 1867" the United States entered into a treaty with
the Sac and Fox Indians under which it assigned to them
a tract of land within the area ceded by the Creeks and
immediately west of the area retained by them.
In 1872 one Darling, a surveyor acting for the government, surveyed the Sac and Fox tract and erroneously
extended his lines and closing corners eastward into the
unceded Creek lands in disregard of the Bardwell dividing line. Dafling's survey was approved by the Commissioner of the General Land Office in 1873; and as a result
of this survey and its approval a strip of Creek lands
between the Bardwell line and Darling's'easterly closing
corners, aggregating 5,575.57 acres, was erroneously included within the Sac and Fox tract as officially surveyed
and.platted, and thereafter was occupied by the Sac and
Fox. In 1875 one Hackbusch, a government surveyor,
subdivided the sections in the Sac and Fox lands into 40
acre tracts and followed Darling's lines into the unceded
' Act March 1, 1889, c. 317, 25 Stat. 757, 758.
'Treaty of February 18, 1867, Art. 6, 15 Stat. 495, 496.

UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.
103

107

Opinion of the Court.

Creek lands, thereby perpetuating Darling's error. Hackbusch's survey, like that of Darling, was approved by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office.
By an agreement ratified in the act of February 13,
1891,' the Sac and Fox ceded to the United States thetract assigned to them under the treaty of 1867. In the
agreement the United States stipulated it would make
allotments in severalty to th- Sac and FoR Indians out of
lands within their cession; and the ratifying act required
that these allotments be made and that the remaining
lands be opened to settlement as public lands and sold
to settlers at a stated price per acre, which was to be
turned into the treasury as public money.
In carrying that act- into effect the Indian and land
bureaus of the United States erroneously treated the strip
of unceded Creek lands between Bardwell's line on the
west and Darling's closing corners on the east as part of
the Sac and Fox cession, and accordingly allotted and
patented part of the strip to Sac and Fox Indians, by way
of fulfilling the Government's obligation to them; sold and
patented other lands therein to settlers; and turned the
purchase price received from such sales into the treasury
as public money. These disposals included nearly all of
the 5,575.57 acres in the strip, and the grantees have since
been 14olding the same adversely to the Creek tribe.
In the court below, as its opinion shows, the parties
were agreed that the lands in the strip were unceded Creek
.lands; and that as to such of them as were disposed of
under the act of 1891 the Creek tribe is "entitled to compensation." But the parties were not agreed respecting
the time as of which the value should be ascertained. The
tribe contended for the value in 1926, when the suit was
brought; while the Government stood for the value at the
time of the appropriation, which it insisted was in 1873,
- C. 165, 26 Stat. 749, 750.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

when Darling's erroneous survey was approved by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, or, in the alternative, at the time the lands were disposed of under the
act of 1891.
The court below held the tribe entitled to the value of
the lands, ruled the value at the time of suit should be
allowed, found-the value at that time was $30 an acre,
and gave judgment accordingly. There was no finding of
the value at either of the times named in the government's contention; but it is inferable. from the record that
the value was less at those times than when the suit was
begun.
1. Counsel for the government, assuming that the present claim is merely for damages arising out of errors on
the part of administrative officers, contend that it does not
,come within the terms of the jurisdictional act-" any and
all legal and equitable claims arising under or growing
out of any treaty or agreement between the United States
and the Creek, Indian Nation or Tribe, or arising under
or growing out of any Act of Congress in relation to Indian affairs, which said Creek Nation or Tribe may have
against the United States." We think the contention
is not tenable.
Counsel's assumption ignores several elements of the
claim, such as the treaties of 1833 and 1866 and the acts
.of Congress of 1889 and 1891. It also neglects matters
reflecting a confirmation of the acts of the administrative
officers, such as the receipt by'the United States of direct
and niaterial benefits from their acts and its retention of
the benefits with knowledge of all the facts.
While the jurisdictional act is couched in general terms,
there can be little doubt when it is read in the light of
the circumstances leading to its passage that it is intended
to include the present claim. The congressional committees on ihose recommendation the act was passed were
in possession of all data bearing on the claim. The facts

UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.
103

109

Opinion of the Court.

had been laid before them in letters from the Secretary
of the Interior, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and
the Commissioner of the General Land Office. -In the
letters these officers, besides reciting the facts in detail,
expressed their own conclusions in the matter, which were
to the effect that the settlers and allottees had acquiredand improved the lands in good faith, and therefore deserved consideration; that the Creek tribe was "entitled
to compensation" for the lands "lost" by it through what
had been done; that the unfortunate situation "grew out
of errors of representatives of the government," which
made it reasonable to expect the government to bear the
expense of an adjustment; and that there was need for
legislation under which the matter could be examined
and brought to an.equitable and final solution. In view
of this portrayal of the matter by the officers specially
charged with the administration of Indian and publicland affairs, and the subsequent action of the committees
in effecting the passage of the jurisdictional act, we regard
it as reasonably manifest that the act is intended to provide for the adjudication of the present claim. The concessions made in the court below by those who were there
representing the Government show "rather plainly that
they so understood the act.
,2. A question is raised as to whether there was an appropriation or taking of the lands by the United States.
The Creek tribe had a fee simple title, not the usual
Indian right of occupancy With the fee in the United
States. That title was acquired and held'under treaties,
in one of which the United States-guaranteed to the tribe
quiet possession. The tribe was a dependent Indian community under the guardianship of the United States, and
therefore its property and .affairs were subject to the control and management of that government. But this
'Senate Report No. 2561, p. 54, 59th Cong., 1st Sess., and papers
named in letter of Secretary of *theInterior.

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1934..
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

power to control and manage was not absolute. While
extending to all appropriate measures for protecting and
advancing the tribe, it was subject to limitations inhering
in such a guardianship and to pertinent constitutional
restrictions. It did not enable the United States to give
the tribal lands to others, or to appropriate them to its
own purposes, without rendering, or assuming an obligation to render, just compensation for them; for that
"would not be an exercise of guardianship, but an act
of confiscation." Lane v. Pueblo of Santa Rosa, 249 U.
S. 110, 113; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294,
307-308.
Such was the situation when the lands in question were
disposed of under the act of 1891. The disposals were
made on behalf of the United States by officers to whom
it had committed the administration of that act, and
were consummated by the issue of patents signed by the
President.
True, the tribe, if free and prepared to proceed in its
own behalf, might have successfully assailed the disposals; but it was not in a position where it could be expected
to assume that burden. It was in a state of tutelage and
entitled to rely on the United States, its guardian, for
needed protection of its interests. Plainly the United
States would have been entitled to a cancellation of the
disposals had it instituted suits for that purpose.' But,
although having full knowledge of the facts, it made no
effort in that direction. OnAhe contrary, it permitted the
disposals to stand-not improbably. because of the unhappy situation in which the other course would leave
the allottees and settlers. In this way the United States
in effect confirmed the disposals; and it emphasized the
confirmation by retaining, with such full knowledge, all
the benefits it has received f-m them.
' United States v. Minnesota, 270 U. S. 181, 194-196, and cases
cited.

UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.
103

111

Opinion of the Court.

We conclude that the lands were appropriated by the
United States in circumstances which involved -an implied undertaking by it to make just compensation to the
tribe.'
3. Plainly the appropriation was not in 1873, when
Darling's survey was approved by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office. That survey did not effect any
change in the existing oinership; nor was it intended to
do so. The most that can be said of it is that it was
done erroneously and, in the absence of correction, might
lead to further error.
But not so of the disposals under the act of 1891. They
were intended from their inception to effect a change of
ownership and were consummated by the issue of patents,
the most accredited type of conveyance known to our law.
True. they rested on an erroneous application of the act
of 1891 to the Creek lands in the strip; but, -as that application' was confirmed by the United Stttes, the matter
stands as if the act had distinctly directed the disposals.
It was through them that the lands were taken; so the
compensation should be based on the value at that time,
and not, as ruled below, on the value when the suit was
begun.
But the just compensation to be awarded now should
not be confined to the value of the lands at the time of
the taking but should include -such addition thereto as
may be required to produce the present full equivalent
of that value paid contemporaneously with the taking.'
Interest at a reasonable rate is a suitable measure by
vhich to ascertain the amount to be added."0 The treaty
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.445,465; United States v. North
American Co., 253 U. S. 330, 333; Phelps v. United States' 274 U. S.
341, 343. And see United States v. State Bank, 96 V. S. 30, 36.
'Jacobs v. United States, 290 U. S. 13, and cases cited.
"0United 9tates v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163, 169; Seaboard Air Line
fly. v. United.States, 261. U. S. 299, 304-306.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

205 U. S.

of 1866, the act of 1889 and other statutes show that five
per cent per annum is a reasonable rate as between the
parties here."It follows that the judgment must be reversed, with
directions for such further, proceedings as may be necessary to bring the award of compensation into conformity
with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
VAN WART v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 95.

Argued November 13, 1934.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Under the Revenue Act of 1924, the ward, not the guardian, is
the "taxpayer." P. 115.
2. An attorney's fee paid by a guardian on behalf of and out of the
income of his ward, who was not engaged in any business, for the
conduct of litigation to recover income for the ward, held not
deductile under § 214 (a) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1924 as an
ordinary or necessary expense incurred in carrying on a business.
Id.
69 F. (2d) 299, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

293 U. S. 537, to review a judgment re-

-versing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which
reversed an order of the Commissioner disallowing a
deduction from income ta,
Mr. Frederick R. Gibbs, with whom Mr. Preston B.
Kavanaghwas on the brief, for petitioner.
The guardian and not the ward is the taxpayer. 1924
Revenue Act, §§ 219 (a), (2), 219 (b), 200 (b), 225 (a),
(b), 2 (a)(9) ; Merchants Loan & Trust Co. v.Smietanka,
'"

Creek Treaty of 1866, Art. 3,14 Stat. 785,.787; Act" of March 1,

1889, c. 317, 25 Stat. 757, 758, 759; U. S.C.-Title 25, § 158.

