OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

sider any other question in the case. We are of opinion that
the bill filed by the United States was properly dismissed, and
that the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming such

dismissal was correct.
The judgment i8, therefore, affirmed.

EVANSVILLE v. DENNETT.
CERTFICATE FROM

THE CMCUIT COURT

OF APPEAlS

FO

TEM

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 509. Submitted May 2, 1895. - Decided March 2, 1896.

The recital in a series of bonds, issued by a municipal corporation In Indiana in payment of its subscription to the stock of a railroad company,
that they were issued "in pursuance of an act of the legislature of the
State of Indiana and ordinances of the city council of said city, passed
in pursuance thereof" do not put a purchaser upon inquiry as to the
terms of the ordinances under which the bonds were issued.
The recital in such series that the bonds were issued to the railroad company, "by virtue of a resolution of said city council passed May 23, 1870,"
do not put a purchaser upon inquiry as to the terms of that resolution
and charge him with knowledge of its terms.
Such recitals in such bonds as against a bona fide purchaser for value of
such honds estop the municipal corporation from asserting that the bonds
were not issued, for stock subscribed, upon a petition of two thirds of the
resident freeholders of the city, distinctly setting forth the company in
which stock was to be taken, and the number and amount of shares to be
subscribed.
Under the recitals in the bonds issued to the railroad company a bona
fide purchaser for value was not put upon inquiry to ascertain whether a
proper petition of two thirds of the residents of Evansville, freeholdera
of that city, had been presented to the common council, before that body
had subscribed for stock in the said railroad company.
A bona fide purchaser for value of the bonds issued to the Evansville, Carml,
and Paducah Railroad Company is not charged by the recitals in said
bonds with notice that they were issued in pursuance of an invalid act,
and in pursuance of an election under it; and he had a right to assume,
from the recital, that the prerequisites of both the valid act and the invalid
act had b~en observed by the common council before the issuance of
such bonds.

TE case is stated in the opinion.

EVANSVILLE v. DENWETT.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George A. Cunningham for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. George A. Sanders and .r.
defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

William A. Bowers for

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon a certificate by the Judges of the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
It appears from the statement of facts accompanying the
questions prQpounded to this court that, on May 1, 1868, the
city of Evansville issued its bonds, bearing date on that day,
to the amount in the aggregate of three hundred thousand
dollars, in payment of its subscription to the stock of the
Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad Company.
Each bond was for the sum of one thousand dollars, was
made payable to the bearer thirty years after date, with interest on presentation of the coupons attached, and was of the
tenor and effect following:

"$1000.00.

No. -.
"United States of America.
"City of Evansville, State of Indiana.
"On account of stock subscription on the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad Company.
"The city of Evansville, in the State of Indiana, promises
to pay to the bearer thirty (30) years after date the sum of
one thousand dollars, at the office of the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, of New York, with interest thereon at the
rate of seven per centum per annum, payable semi-annually
at the office of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, in the
city of New York, on the first day of November and the first
day of May of each year, on presentation and delivery of the
interest coupons hereto attached. This being one of a series
of three hundred bonds of like tenor and date issued by the
city of Evansville, in payment of a subscription to the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad Company, made in
pursuance of an act of the legislature of the State of Indiana

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and ordinances of the city council of said city, passed in pursuance thereof. The city of Evdnsville hereby waives all
benefit from valuation or appraisement laws.
"In testimony whereof, the said city of Evansville has
hereunto caused to be set its corporate seal, and these presents
to be signed by the mayor of said city, and countersigned by
the clerk thereof.
"Dated the 1st of May, 1868.
"WmLI

"A. M. McGumvF,

H.

W.&LxiR, Mayor.

City Clerk."

On December 1, 1870, the city. also issued bonds, amounting in the aggregate to three hundred thousand dollars, in
payment of its subscription to the stock of the Evansville,
Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company, each bond being
.dated December 1, 1870, for the sum of one thousand
dollars, payable to the Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company, or bearer, December 1, 1895, with interest
on presentation of the coupons attached. Each of those
bonds was in the following form:
"Total amount authorized, three hundred thousand dollars.

"No. -.

"City of Evansville, State of Indiana.

$1000.00.

"Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company.
"By virtue of an act of the general assembly of the State
of' Indiana, entitled ' An act granting to the citizens of the
town of Evansville, in the county of Vanderburg, a city "
charter,' approved January 27, 18-7; and by virtue of an
act of the general assembly of the State of Indiana, amendatory of said act, approved March 11, 1867, conferring upon
the city council of said city power to take stock in any company authorized for the purpose of making a road of any kind
leading to said city; and by virtue of the resolution of said
city council of said city, passed October 4, 1869, ordering
an election of the qualified voters of said city' updn the question of subscribing three hundred thousand dollars to the
capital stock of the Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad

EVANSVILLE v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, and said election, held on the 13th day of November, 1868, resulting in a legal majority in favor of such subscription, and by virtue of a resolution of said city council,
passed May 23, 1870, ordering an issue of the bonds of the
city of Evansville (of which this is a part) to an amount not to
exceed three hundred thousand dollars, bearing interest at the
rate of 7 per cent per annum, for the purpose of paying the
subscription as authorized above. Thte said city of Evansville
hereby acknowledges to owe and promises to pay to the
Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company, -or bearer,
one thousand dollars, without relief from valuation or appraisement laws, payable on the 1st day of December, A.D. 1895, at
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, in the city of New
York, with interest from the date thereof, at the rate of 7 per
cent per annum, said interest payable semi-annually on the
first day of June and the first day of December on presentation of the proper coupons for the same at said bank. The
faith and credit and real estate revenues and all other resources
of the said city of Evansville are hereby solemnly and irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
this bond.
"In testimony whereof, the mayor of the city of Evansville
has hereunto set his hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said city, and the city clerk of said city has countersigned
these presents this 1st day of December, 1870.
Wm. BAKER, Mayor."
"Wm. HELDER, City Clerk.
The charter of Evansville, approved January 27, 1847, in
the fortieth clause of section 30 thereof, gave the city power
"to take stock in any chartered company for making roads
to said city, or for watering said city, and in any company
authorized or empowered by the commissioners of Vanderburg County to build a bridge on any road leading to said
city; and to establish, maintain and regulate ferries across
the Ohio River from the public wharves of said city: Provided, That no stock shall be subscribed or taken by the common council in any such company, unless it be on the petition
of two thirds of the residents of said city, who are freeholders

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the city, distinctly setting forth the company in which
stock is to-be taken, and the number and amount of shares
to be subscribed: And provided, also, That in all cases where
such stock is taken the common council shall have power ta
borrow money and levy and collect taxes on all real estate
(either inclusive or exclusive of improvements, at their discretion) for the payment of said stock." Laws of Indiana, Local,
1846-47, p. 14, c. 1.
This clause of the original charter of Evansville was, in
form, amended by the act of the legislature of the State of
Indiana, approved December 21, 1865, entitled "An act to
amend the fortieth clause of section 30 of an act entitled 'An
act granting to the citizens of the town of Evansville, in the
county of Vanderburg, a city charter,' approved January 27,
1847, and declaratory of the meaning of the second section of
the same act." Laws of Indiana, Called Session, 1865, pp.
76, 83.
The certificate before us states that "under the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Indiana, this act was repugnant to
the constitution and invalid, in that it did not set out the
entire section as amended."
In 1867 the legislature of Indiana attempted to amend the
act of 1865, above referred to, by an act approved :March 11,
1867, entitled "An act to amend the first section of an act
entitled 'An act to amend the fortieth clause of section thirty
of an act entitled "An act granting to the citizens of the town
of Evansville, in the county of Vanderburg, a city charter,"
approved January 27, 1847, and declaratory of the meaning
of the second section of the same act,' approved December
21, 1865, so as to authorize the common council of the city
of Evansville to subscribe for and take stock in the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad Company, or any
other company, or corporation, organized under and by virtue
of the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, for the purpose of constructing a railroad leading from Nashville, in the
State of Tennessee, to a point on the Ohio River at or uear
Evansville, Indiana." Laws of Indiana, 1867, p. 121, c. 52.
This act authorized subscriptions for stock in the Evansville,

EVANSVILLE v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

Henderson and Nashville Railroad Company, or other railroad
companies, by the city of Evansville, when a majority of the
qualified voters of the city, who were also taxpayers, should
vote therefor.
It is certified to us that under the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State of Indiana this latter act was invalid, because amendatory of a prior invalid act.
The bonds in question, of both series, were in fact issued in
attempted compliance with the act of March 11, 1867, referred
to in the recitals in the bonds issued to the Evansville, Carmi
and Paducah Railroad Company.
The ordinances of the city council of the city of Evansville
authorizing the issue of both series of bonds disclose that they
were issued pursuant to an election by the legal voters of the
city of Evansville, but do not recite that any petition of resident freeholders of the city was presented to the common
council, as required by the charter; and no such petition was,
in fact, in either case made or presented to the common council of the city of Evansville.
The defendant in error, William S. Dennett, purchased bonds
of both issues, before maturity and for value, and is a bona.fde
holder thereof.
This suit is brought upon matured coupons of both series of
bonds.
The questions propounded are these:
1. Does the recital in the series of bonds, issued in payment
of subscription to the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville
Railroad Company, that they were issued "in pursuance of
an act of the legislature of the State of Indiana and ordinances
of the city council of said city, passed in pursuance thereof"
put a purchaser upon inquiry as to the terms of the ordinances
under which the bonds were issued?
2. Does the recital in the series of bonds issued to the
Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company, that they
were issued "by virtue of a resolution of said city council
passed May 23, 1870," put a purchaser upon inquiry as to the
terms of that resolution and charge him with knowledge of its
terms?

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

3. Do the recitals in the bonds issued to the Evansville,
Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company, as against a bona fide
purchaser for value of such bonds, estop the city of Evansville
from asserting that such bonds were not issued, for stock subscribed, upon a petition of two thirds of the resident freeholders of the city, distinctly setting forth the company in
which stock was to be taken, and the number and amount of
shares to be subscribed?
4. Under the recitals in the bonds issued to the Evansville,
Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company was a bona fide purchaser for value put upon inquiry to ascertain whether a
proper petition of two thirds of the residents of Evansville,
freeholders of that city, had been presented to the common
council, before that body had subscribed for stock in the said
railroad company?
5. Was a bonafifde purchaser for value of the bonds issued
to the Evansville, Cari and Paducah Railroad Company
charged by the recitals in said bonds with notice that they
were issued in pursuance of an invalid act, and in pursuance
of an election under it, or had such a purchaser a right to
assume, from the recital, that the prerequisites of both the
valid act and the invalid act had been observed by the common council before the issuance of such bonds?
Such is the case made by the statement of facts. By that
statement we are informed that the act of the legislature of
Indiana of December 21, 1865, purporting to amend the fortieth clause of section 30 of the charter of Evansville granted
in 18,17, as well as the act of March 11, 1867, amendatory of
the above act of December 21, 1865, were adjudged by the
Supreme Court of Indiana to be unconstitutional and invalid.
And, upon that basis, this court is asked to answer the questions embodied in the certificate from the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Under this presentation of the case, we put aside the acts of
1865 and 1867 as giving no support to the rights of the plaintiff, and look alone to the charter of 1847.
It cannot be doubted that the power given by the charter
of 1847 "to take stock in any chartered company for making

EVANSVILLE v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

roads to said city," authorized the city to subscribe to the capital stock of the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad
Company, as well as of the Evansville, Carmi and Paducah
Railroad Company. In 'City of Aurora v. West, 9 Indiana,
74, 86, one of the questions was whether the authority given
to the city council of Aurora, in the State of Indiana, "to take
stock in any chartered company for making roads to said city,"
was authority to subscribe to the stock of a railroad company.
The Supreme Court of Indiana said: "Here, the power is expressly granted, and the question is merely whether the road
in which the stock was subscribed is one contemplated by the
charter. We think, also, that a company chartered to build
a railroad is chartered to build a road. We think a railroad
is a road as properly as a turnpike road, or a plank road, is a
road; and one of these kinds was contemplated by the charter, and not common public highways, as the latter are not
constructed by chartered companies, while the former are,
and the stock is to be taken by the city in a chartered company. A railroad would accommodate the people of the city
more than a plank or a turnpike road, and the stock would
be of more value."
It is true that the city charter provided that "no stock
shall be subscribed or taken by the common council in such
company, unless it be on the petition of two thirds of the residents of said city, who are freeholders of the city, distinctly
setting forth the company in which stock is to be taken, and
the number and amount of shares to be subscribed." But
these were only conditions which the statute required to be
performed or met before the power given was exercised.
That there was legislative authority to subscribe to the stock
of these companies cannot be questioned, although the statute
declared that the power should not be exercised except under
the circumstances stated in the statute.
Was a bonafide purchaser of bonds issued in payment of a
subscription of stock-the power to subscribe being clearly
given - bound to know that the conditions precedent to the
exercise of the power were not performed ? If the bonds had
not contained any recitals importing a performance of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

conditions before the power to subscribe was exercised, then
it would have been open to the city to show, even as against
a bonaflde purchaser, that the bonds were issued in disregard
of the statute, and, therefore, did.not impose any legal obligation upon it. Buchanan v. Litchfield, 102 U. S.278; School
.District v. Stoge, 106 U. S. 183, 187.
But the bonds issued on account of subscription to the
stock of the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad
Company recite that the subscription was "made in pursuance of an act of the legislature and ordinances of the city
council passed in pursuance thereof." This imports not only
compliance with the act of the legislature, but that the ordinances of the city council were in conformity with the statute.
It is as if the city bad declared, in terms, that all had been
done that was required to be done in order that the power
given might be exercised.
The bonds issued to the Evansville, Carmi and Paducah
Railroad Company recite that they wbre issued "by virtue
of" the city's charter of January 27, 1847, and that- recital
imports compliance with the provisions of the charter. The
additional recitals that the bonds were issued by virtue of the
act of March 11, 1867, as well as by virtue of a resolution of
the city council, ordering an election of the qualified voters of
the city, which resulted in a legal majority in favor of such
subscription, and of a resolution ordering the issuing of bonds,
did not, as between the city and a bona fide purchaser for
value, prevent the latter from assuming the truth of the
recital that the bonds were issued by virtue of, that is, in,
compliance with, the city's charter.
In School -Districtv. Stone, above cited, the court said:
"Numerous cases have been determined in this court, in
which we have said that where a statute confers power
upon a municipal corporation, upon the performance of certain precedent conditions, to execute bonds in aid of the construction of a railroad, or for other like purposes, and imposes
upon certain officers -invested with authority to determine
whether such conditions have been performed - the responsibility of issuing them when such conditions have been com-

EVANSVILLE v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

0

plied with, recitals, by such officers, that the bonds have been
issued 'in pursuance of,' or ' in conformity with,' or ' by virtue
of,' or 'by authority of' the statute, have been held in favor
of bona fide purchasers for value to import full compliance
with the statute, and to preclude inquiry as to whether the
precedent conditions had been performed before the bonds
were issued." Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Commissioners v. Bolles, 94 U. S. 104;
e'cer County v. Hacket,
1 Wall. 83 ; Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S.
227, 238-9 and authorities there cited; Cairo v. Zane, 149
U. S. 122.
The charter of the city of Evansville gave authority to subscribe to the stock of these railroad corporations, and, as held
by the Supreme Court of Indiana, in Evansville, Indianapolis
cQ6Cleveland Straight Line Railroad Co. v. Evansville, 15
Indiana, 395, 412, the express power given to borrow money
necessarily implied "the power to determine the time of payment, and also the power to issue bonds or other evidences of
indebtedness."
As therefore the recitals in the bonds import compliance
with the city's charter, purchasers for value having no notice
of the non-performance of the conditions precedent, were not
bound to go behind the statute conferring the power to subscribe, and to ascertain, by an examination of the ordinances
and records of the city council, whether those conditions had,
in fact, been performed. With such recitals before them they
had the right to assume that the circumstances existed which
authorized the city to exercise the authority given by the legislature. The charter of 184'7 contemplated a petition of two
thirds of the resident freeholders ofthe city. The act of 1867
provided for an election by the ql2lified voters, who were also
taxpayers. Notwithstaniing the provisions of the charter of
1847 the city council before subscribing for the stock might
well have ascertained what were the wishes of taxpayers,
who were also qualified voters. So far as the recitals in the
bonds are concerned, the purchaser of bonds might properly
have assumed that both methods were pursued. Although,
in strict law, he was chargeable with knowledge that the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1867 was invalid, and, consequently, that an election held
under it could not itself authorize a subscription of stock by
the city, he was entitled to stand upon the validity of the city
charter, and to act upon the assurance, given by the recitals
in the bonds, that the provisions of that charter had been
respected, and, therefore, that the subscription of stock had
been preceded by a petition to the city council of two thirds
of the resident freeholders of the city.
The present case comes directly within V-an Hostrup v.
.fadion City, 1 Wall. 291, 296, 297.
The city of Madison, Indiana, was authorized by its charter
"to take stock in any chartered company for making a road
or roads to the said city, . . . provided, that no stock shall
be subscribed . . . unless it be on petition of two thirds of
the citizens who are freeholders," etc. Mr. Tustice Nelson,
delivering the unanimous judgment of this court, said: "It is
supposed that the authority to subscribe is tied down to a
chartered road, the line of which comes within the limits of
the city; and that the words are to be taken in the most literal and restrictive sense. But this, we think, would be not
only a very narrow and strained construction of the terms of
the clause, but would defeat the manifest object and purpose
of it. The power was sought and granted, with the obvious
idea of enabling the city to promote its commercial and business interests, by affording a ready and convenient access to
it from different parts of the interior of the State, and thus to
compete with other cities on the Ohio River and in the interior which were or might be in the enjoyment of railroad
facilities."
Touching another issue in that case- and a
similar issue is presented in the present litigation - the court
said: "Another objection taken is, that the proviso requiring
a petition of two thirds of the citizens, who were freeholders
of the city, was not complied with. As we have seen, the
bonds signed by the mayor and clerk of the city recite on the
face of them that they were issued by virtue of an ordinance
of the common council of the city, passed September 2, 1852.
This concludes the city as to any irregularities that may have
existed in carrying into execution the power granted to sub-

EVANSVILLE v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

scribe the stock and issue the bonds, as has been repeatedly
held by this court. Our conclusion upon the whole case is,
that full power existed in the defendants to issue the bonds,
and that the plaintiffs are entitled to recover the interest coupons in question. Even if the case had been doubtful, inasmuch as the city authorities have given this construction to
the charter, and bonds have been issued and are in the hands
of bona fide purchasers for value, we should have felt bound
to acquiesce in it."
The case before us cannot be distinguished from the one
just cited.
It may be added that the questions here presented were
carefully examined by Judge Woods in the case of Moulton
v. City of Evansville, 25 Fed. Rep. 382, 388, where will be
found a full review of the adjudged cases. That was an action
to recover the amount of coupons of bonds of the same class
as those here involved. The conclusion there reached was
that the purchaser of the bonds had a right to rely on the
recital as showing that a proper petition of freeholders was
presented to the council before the subscription was ordered.
The court said: "The purchaser, it is clear, was bound to
know that the act of 1867, and the election ordered and held
in compliance with it, were void, and that the law of 18417
required a petition of freeholders as a conditiQn precedent
to the right of the common council to make such stock subscriptions; but while bound -by legal construction to know
these things for himself, he, for the same reason, had a right
to presume that the common council and officials of the city
who ordered and made the bonds had the same knowledge;
that they ordered and held the election as matter of precaution merely, and without the omission, of any requirement of
the act of 184:7, as they must have intended to certify, if they
acted honestly, as they are presumed to have acted intelligently, in ordering the bonds issued."
It is contended that the defence is sustained by Barnett v.
Denison, 145 U. S. 135, 139. That case has no application to
the issues here presented. The only point there decided was
that the requirement of its charter, that all bonds issued by

