OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

It carries, also, the further thought that in the discharge of
his judicial functions the magistrate exercises a personal and
judicial consideration of every charge made, and subjects no
one to the annoyance and disgrace of arrest until after personal and careful investigation he, as a magistrate, believes
him to be guilty of a violation of law. The idea of a perfunctory discharge of these duties, of a transfer of responsibility to mere clerks, of a wholesale proceeding against a
multitude of citizens without personal inquiry as to the probability of the charge against each, is something abhorrent to
the true and reasonable understanding of the conditions of
judicial action. The testimony is not preserved and we must
rest upon the findings of fact made by the Court of Claims,
and upon them, irrespective of what may be considered in the
sixth finding as partially a conclusion of law, it is evident that
the action of the commissioner was in no just sense the action
Qf a judicial officer, instituted for the sake of upholding the
laws of the United States and the punishment of crime. The
facts, as stated in the prior findings, we unhesitatingly affirm,
justify the conclusions stated in the sixth finding, and we
therefore hold that the services rendered by the commissioner
were partisan rather than judicial, and as such entitled to no
compensation from the government.
The judgment is
Aftrmed.
MR. Jusio

WHITE took no part in the consideration and

decision of this case.

OWENS v. HENRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THB

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISrANA.
No. 143. Argued and submitted March 13, 1896.- Decided March 80, 1896.

In June, 1861, 0. recovered judgment in a Pennsylvania court for the recovery of a sum of money against H. and F., both residents of that State. In
1865 H. removed to Louisiana, and became a citizen of that State and

OWENS v. HENRY.
Statement of the Case.
continued so until his death. In 1866 the judgment was revived by scire
facias, process being served on F. only. In 1871 it was in like manner
revived. In 1880 0. proceeded on the judgment against H. in the courts
of Louisiana, where a judgment is barred by prescription in ten years
from its rendition. Being compelled to elect upon which judgment he
relied, he elected to stand upon the scirefaciasjudgment of 1871. Held,
that, viewed as a new judgment rendered as in an action of debt, the
judgment had no binding force in Louisiana, as H. had not been served
with process or voluntarily appeared; and considered as in continuation
of the prior action and a revival of the original judgment for purposes
of execution, It operated merely to keep in force the local lien, and, for
the same reason, it could not be availed of as removing the statutory bar
of the lez fori.
JUNE 17, 1861, judgment was entered on a bond and warrant of attorney, dated March 1, 1861, for ten thousand dollars, conditioned for the payment of five thousand dollars on
the second day of March, 1861, with interest, in favor of Bernard Owens against John Henry and James Feeny in the District Court for the county and city of Philadelphia, now the
Court of Common Pleas No. 8, for the county of Philadelphia,
State of Pennsylvania, and execution was issued thereon that
day. February 3, 1866, a scirefacias to revive this judgment
was issued returnable the first Monday of March, and served
upon Feeny, but returned nihil habet as to John Henry. And
a second writ was issued March 19, 1866, and returned nhil.
The docket entries show: "Ap'l 21, 1866. Judg't for want
of an affidavit of defence," but damages were not assessed
until March 17, 1871, when they were entered at $6525. On
that day a sci.fa. to revive this latter judgment was issued
returnable the first Monday of April, 1871, and returned nihil,
and April 11 an alias was issued returnable the first Monday
of May, 1871, with a like return.
May 10, 1871, judgment was rendered "for want of an appearance on two returns of iihil," and damages assessed at
$8482.50. The record shows the assessment was made up of
the amount of the prior judgment, (assessed March 17, 1871,
but treated as of the date of the interlocutory judgment,)
$6525, interest from April 21, 1866, $1957.50, "real debt,
$8-82.50."
At the time the original judgment was rendered, John

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

Henry was a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania, but he
removed to the State of Louisiana in 1865, and became a citizen of that State, residing there from September 5, 1865,
until his death, January 3, 1892.
November 1, 1880, Bernard Owens, who was a citizen of
Pennsylvania, filed his petition in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana against
John Henry, as a citizen of Louisiana, setting forth the recovery of judgment against Henry and Feeny June 17, 1861, and
the issue of the writs of scirefacias,upon which he recovered
judgment May 10, 1871, in the sum of $8482.50, with interest
from that date, together with costs, and prayed judgment, with
interest and costs. Henry appeared and filed peremptory exceptions to the petition, which exceptions were sustained, and
the plaintiff allowed to amend by declaring on which judgment he relied. Thereupon, Owens filed his supplemental
petition, in which he elected to stand upon the scire facias
judgment of May 10, 1871. Defendant again excepted, and
also answered that since September 5, 1865, he had been a
citizen and resident of Louisiana, and for and during that
time had not been a citizen of Pennsylvania, nor domiciled in
said State, nor in any manner represented therein, nor been
in any manner, by himself or his property, subject to the laws
of the State of Pennsylvania; also pleading nul tiel record,and
denying that the courts of Pennsylvania ever acquired jurisdiction over him by service or by voluntary appearance.
The case was submitted to the court for trial, a jury being
waived, the issues found for defendant, and judgment entered
dismissing the suit. While the case was under consideration,
Henry died, and it was revived as against his testamentary
executor, McCloskey. Thereupon a writ of error was sued
out from this court.
Mr. George A. Zing for plaintiff in error.

-M'r. W. 8.Benedit filed a brief for same.
No appearance for defendant in error.

OWENS v. HENRY.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after

stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Judgments for money, whether rendered within or without
the State, are barred by prescription in the State of Louisiana
in ten years from the date of the rendition thereof. La. Civ.
Code, Art. 3547. The original judgment was recovered June
17, 1861, and this action was commenced November 1, 1880.
Considered as brought upon that judgment the action was
barred, but inasmuch as the original petition set up the judgment on 8cire facias, rendered May 10, 1871, in respect of
which ten years had not run, defendant compelled plaintiff to
make his election as to which judgment he relied on, and he
elected to stand on the judgment of May 10, 1871. The plea
of prescription as to the original judgment therefore became
unnecessary.

Ordinarily the writ of scirefacia8to revive a judgment is a
judicial writ to continue the effect of, and have execution of,
the former judgment, although in all cases it is in the nature
of an action, as defendant may plead any matter in bar of execution, as for instance, a denial of the existence of the record
or a subsequent satisfaction or discharge. Foster on Scire
Facias, 13, and cases cited; Tidd's Practice, 1090; 2 Sellon's
Practice, 275.
Conformably to the exigency of the writ, the judgment on
dci. fa., the proceeding being regarded as a continuation of
the original action, usually is that plaintiff have execution
of the judgment mentioned in the writ with costs. Lilly's
Entries, 398, 638; Chitty's Forms, 9th ed., 635; Black, Judgments, ยง 498. But in Pennsylvania it is held that a 8cire
facia is in such wise a substitute in that State for an action
of debt elsewhere, that the judgment should be quod recuperet
instead of a bare award of execution; and hence, that a judgment on scire facias cannot be avoided because the original
judgment might have been. Dzff v. Wynkoop, 74 Penn. St.
300; Buehler v. Buffington, 43 Penn. St. 278; Conyngham v.
Walter, 95 Penn. St. 85. Accordingly the judgment of May
10, 1871, was a judgment for the recovery of the amount of

