OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ROUSE v. HORNSBY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 706. Submitted March 2, 1896.-Decided March 23, 1896.

The decrees and judgments of Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final by
section 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, where the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court over the intervenor's petition, the decree on which

is appealed from, was referable to its jurisdiction of an equity suit which
depended wholly upon diverse citizenship.
MoTioN

to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion.

Mkr. Nelson Case for the motion.

.Mr. Ja
MR.

s Hagerman and 2fr. . N. Sedgwick opposing.

CHIEF JusTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Mercantile Trust Company, a corporation of New
York, filed its bill against the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company, a corporation of Kansas, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, for
the foreclosure of certain mortgages, and Eddy and Cross
were appointed receivers, upon whose decease Rouse was
substituted.
Under a general order, to which he refers but which is not
given in the record, Hornsby filed a petition of intervention
in that suit seeking damages for injuries inflicted through the
negligence of the receivers in the operation of the road. To
this petition the defendants interposed a demurrer upon the
ground that the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, which was sustained and the petition
dismissed, whereupon the case was carried to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, the judgment reversed and the case remanded. Hornsby v. Eddy, 12 U. S.

ROUSE v. HORNSBY.
Opinion of the Court.

App. 404%. Thereupon defendants answered on the merits
and the intervenor replied. Defendants moved the court for
a reference to a master, "which motion," the record states,
"to refer the claim of John E. Hornsby against them as set
forth in the intervening petition of said Hornsby and the
issues joined thereon to a master," was overruled. A jury
was then empanelled on motion of the intervenor, a trial
had, and verdict returned, whereupon the court entered an
order in these words, after setting out the verdict:
"And thereupon the court doth now approve said verdict
and order and adjudge that the said intervenor, John E.
Hornsby, have and recover of and from the said defendants,
George A. Eddy and Harrison C. Cross, as receivers of the
property of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), together with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent per
annum from this date, and also all costs herein expended by
; and the property of said Misouri,
him, amounting to $-Kansas and Texas Railway Company which was heretofore in
the hands of said receivers and over which this court, now
holds jurisdiction sha4l remain liable for said sum and sums,
and said receivers are hereby ordered to allow, audit and pay
said sum and sums into the registry of this court .for said
intervenor, John E. Hornsby; and if said receivers as such
have not sufficient funds in their possession and under their
control for that purpose, the property of said railway company remain liable therefor; to which orders and judgment
of the court the said defendants, George A. Eddy and Harrison 0. Cross, as such receivers, at the time excepted. It is
further ordered that the said defendants, George A. Eddy and
Harrison C. Cross, as such receivers, have sixty days from
this date in which to prepare and present a bill of exceptions
herein for allowance, and that execution in this case be stayed
ten days from this date."
The petition of intervention, the answer, and the various
orders were all entitled in the case of T/ie MAerentile Trust
Company of New York v. The Mklissouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company et al. From the final order of the court

OCTOBER TER-,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

defendants took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit by writ of error and also by appeal. The
cause was heard in that court and the order of the court below
affirmed. 67 Fed. Rep. 219. The Circuit Court of Appeals
was of opinion that the appeal should be dismissed, and that
the order below should be affirmed on the writ of error, because "the intervening petition set up a cause of action exclusively cognizable at law, and was tried by a jury as such."
If, as is said, the intervenor, the railroad company and the
receivers were all citizens of Kansas, and this had been an
action at law and not a petition of intervention in the equity
suit, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court would nevertheless
have been maintainable on the ground that it was one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States in that
the receivers were appointed by the Circuit Court and derived their powers from and discharged their duties subject
to those orders, and the right to sue them as such, without
leave of the court which appointed them, was conferred by
section three of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552.
Texas and Pacific Railway Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Tennessee v. Union and P~lanters'Bank, 152 U. S. 454.
In Railway Co. v. Cox, the objection was raised that neither
of the defendants was an inhabitant of the district in which
the suit was brought, and it was remarked that if the suit was
regarded as merely ancillary to the receivership the objection
was without force, but that, irrespective of that, the immunity
was a personal privilege which might be waived, and which
in that case had been waived. In the case before us the
question in respect of an independent action at law is not
presented, since this intervention was nothing more than an
application for the allowance of a claim under the foreclosure
proceedings-and as against the property or fund being administered. by the court. Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47. Defendants raised no objection to the determination of the entire
matter on the intervention, and did not ask that an action at
law be directed to be brought, and the reference of the questions of fact to a jury was within the discretion of the court
and did not change the character of the proceeding.

