FRANCE v. CONNOR.
Syllabus.

general rules of the maritime law. By that law, as understood in England, the master, from the necessity of the case,
had the right, and, by"our law, the duty, in case of disaster
to his ship, to transship the goods and send them on by another vessel, if one could be had. The Maggie flammond, 9
Wall. 435, 458; 3 Kent Com. 212.
In the able argument for the plaintiffs in error, it was admitted that the rule, that the master in case of necessity is the
agent of all concerned, applied to the seller, who was the
owner, and to the insurer, and to any one having an insurable
interest in the goods; but it was contended that the plaintiffs
in error, before the arrival of the goods, had no insurable
interest therein, and Stockdale v. Dunlop, 6 M~t. & W. 224,
was relied on as decisive of this. But that case was decided
upon the single ground that there the contract for the sale of
goods was oral, and therefore incapable of being enforced.
It is well settled that any person has an insurable interest in
property, by the existence of which he will gain an advantage,
or by the destruction of which he will suffer a loss, whether
he has or has not any title in, or lien upon, or possession of the
property itself. In the present case, the plaintiffs in error,
under a valid contract in writing, had an insurable interest,
by reason of the title which would accrue to them upon
arrival and delivery, and of the injury which they might
suffer by a previous loss of the goods. Insurance Co. v. Chase,
5 Wall. 509, 513 ; Filley v. Pope, 115 U. S. 213, 220; Wilson
v. Jones, L. R. 2 Ex. 131, 151; 3 Kent Com. 276.
Judgment affirmed.

FRANCE v. CONNOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WYOMING.
No. 68. Argued May 2, 8, 1895.-

Decided March 2, 1896.

Section 18 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 397, conferring and
regulating the right of dower, applies to the Territory of Utah only, and
not to other Territories of the United States.
VoL. CLXI-5

OCTOBER TERM. 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

THis was a petition for the assignment and setting off of
dower in lands in the county of Carbon and Territory of
Wyoming, filed April 1, 1889, in the district court for that
county, and alleging that the plaintiff on February 7, 1887,
intermarried with James France, then and until his death a
'resident and citizen of that county and Territory; that he died
August 21, 1888, intestate, leaving the plaintiff his widow, and
having been seized, during the marriage, of an estate of inheritance in land situated in that county, and fully described
in the petition; that upon his death the plaintiff, by virtue of
the marriage, became entitled to dower in these lands, which
had never been assigned or set off to her, and which she had
never received any compensation or equivalent for, or at any
time lawfully released her right to; that on March 16, 1888,
he, being insolvent, made an assignment, according to the laws
of the Territory, to the defendants, for the benefit of his
creditors, of all his property, including these lands; and that
the defendants took and since held possession of these lands,
and refused to assign and set off to the plaintiff her dower
therein. The defendants filed a general demurrer, which was
sustained, and judgment entered for the defendants.
The plaintiff filed a petition in error in the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which, upon the admission of the State of
Wyoming into the Union, was entered and argued in the
Supreme Court of the State, and the judgment affirmed, upon
the ground that the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 397,
§ 11, did not apply to the Territory of Wyoming. 3 Wyoming, 445. The plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
ilbr. Charles NY.Potterand Mr. A. B. Browne for plaintiff
in error.
-Mr. Samuel Skellabarger for defendants in error.
-Yr. Melville C. Brown filed a brief for same.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY,

opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

FRANCE v. CON:NOR.
Opinion of the Court.

By a statute of the Territory of Wyoming, passed December 10, 1869, and embodied in the subsequent codes of the
Territory, "Dower and the tenancy by the curtesy are abolished, and neither husband nor wife shall have any share in the
estate of the other, save as herein provided." Wyoming Stat.
1869, c. 41, § 1 ; Compiled Laws of 1876, c. 42, § 1 ; Rev. Stat.
of 1887, § 2221.
The single question in this case is whether this provision
of the territorial statute has been annulled or superseded by
section 18 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 397, conferring and regulating the right of dower; or, in other words,
whether this section applies to the Territory of Utah only, or
extends to all the Territories of the United States. In order
to determine this question, it becomes necessary to consider
the scope and the connection of the various parts of the act.
24 Stat. 635.
The act is entitled "An act to amend an act entitled 'An
act to amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes,' approved March twenty-second,
eighteen hundred and eighty-two. "'
Sections 1 and 2 relate to testimony in prosecutions for
bigamy, polygamy or unlawful cohabitation. Sections 3-5
define and punish the offences of adultery, incest and fornication. These five sections do not mention the place of commission of any offence; and may perhaps be held to include
"any Territory, or other place over which the United States
have exclusive jurisdiction," since so much of the act of March
22, 1882, c. 47, referred to in the title of this act, as defined
and punished offences, expressly included any such Territory
or place. 22 Stat. 30. But upon the question whether such
provisions apply to the District of Columbia there have been
conflicting opinions. United States v. Crawford, 6 Mackey,
And we are
319 ; Knight v. United States, 5 D. C. App. -.
not now required to determine the application of those provisions of the act of 1887.
The next three sections of this act are in terms limited to
the Territory of Utah. Section 6 relates to the institution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

prosecutions for adultery; section 7, to the powers of commissioners of the courts; and section 8, to the powers of the
mdrshal and his deputies as peace officers.
Sections 9 and 10 relate to evidence, by certificate or otherwise, of marriages "in any of the Territories of the United
States."
Section 11 disapproves and annuls all laws enacted by the
legislature of the Territory of Utah, providing for or recognizing the capacity of illegitimate children to inherit or'to be entitled to any distributive share in the estate of their father;
and enacts that no illegitimate child shall hereafter be entitled
to inherit from the father, or to receive any distributive share
in his estate, unless born within twelve months after the passage of the act, or made legitimate under the act of Congress
of March 22, 1882, c. 47, § 7. See Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S.
682, 688.
Section 12 disapproves and annuls all statutes of the Territory of Utah,,conltrring jurisdiction upon the probate courts,
other than over estates of deceased persons, or over guardianships of the persons and property of infants or insane persons;
and transfers the jurisdiction so withdrawn to the district
courts of the Territory.
Section 13 directs that proceedings shall be instituted to
forfeit and escheat to the United States property obtained or
held by corporations in violation of the act of June 1, 1862,
c. 126, § 3, (12 Stat. 501,) or of section 1890 of the Revised
Statutes-each of which provides that "no corporation or
association for religious or charitable purposes shall acquire or
hold real estate in any Territory, during the existence of the
territorial government," of a greater value than $50,000- and
that the proceeds of the forfeiture shall be applied to common
schools "in the Territory in which such property may be;"
but that houses of worship, parsonages and burial grounds
shall be exempt from forfeiture. The terms of the acts referred to, as well as those of the section itself, show that it
extends to all the Territories. And section 14 provides for the
discovery of documents in such proceedings "in any Territory
of the United States."

FR NCE v. CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

Sections 15, 16 and 17 disapprove and annul the acts of the
legislature of the Territory of Utah, and of the so-called government of the State of Deseret, creating or continuing the
Mormon corporations known as The Perpetual Emigrating
Fund Company and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day
Saints. See Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1.
Then comes section .18, relating to dower, the extent and
effect of which are now in question.
Then follow seven sections, each of which is restricted, in
terms, to the Territory of Utah. Section 19 requires the
judges of probate in Utah to be appointed by the President of
the United States, with the consent of the Senate; and annuls
the laws of Utah providing for their election by the territorial
legislature. Section 20 makes it unlawful for women to vote
at any election in Utah; and annuls all laws of Utah providing for their registration or voting. Section 21 annuls all
laws of Utah providing for numbering or identifying the
votes at elections. Section 22 abolishes the election districts,
and the apportionment of representatives, established by the
legislature of Utah; provides for new election districts, and a
new apportionment; and declares that none but citizens of
the United States shall be entitled to vote at any election in
that Territory. Section 23 temporarily continues in force in
Utah provisions of section 9 of the act of 1882 concerning the
registration of voters and the conduct of elections. Section
24 requires of voters, officers and jurors in Utah an oath to
obey this act and those of which it is an amendment; and
disqualifies those convicted under this act, or under the act
of 1882, or guilty of polygamy or of cognate offences. Section
25 abolishes the office of superintendent of schools, created by
the laws, of Utah; requires a commissioner to be appointed
instead by the Supreme Court of the Territory; and prescribes
his duties.
Section 26 (which might perhaps have been more appropriately inserted after section 13 or 14) provides that all religious
so6ieties may hold, through trustees nominated and appointed
as therein directed "in a Territory,"' real estate necessary for
houses of worship, parsonages and burial grounds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The 27th arid final section annuls all laws of the so called
State of Deseret, or of the Territory of Utah; for the organization of the militia; and requires the militia of Utah to be
organized under and subjected to the laws of the United
States.
The leading provisions of section 18 are as follows:
"(a) A widow shall be endowed of third part of all the lands
whereof her husband was seized of an estate of inheritance it
any time during the marriage, unless she shall have lawfully
released her right thereto.
"(b) The widow of any alien who at the time of his death
shall be entitled by law to hold any real estate, if she be an
inhabitant of the Territory at the time of such death, shall be
entitled to dower of such estate in the same manner as if such
alien had been a native citizen."
The whole section, was taken from the statutes of the State
of New York, with little more than verbal changes, one of
which was a substitution of "the Territory" for" this State" in
the second sentence, just quoted. N. Y. Rev. Stat. pt. 2, c. 1,

tit. 3, N 1-8.
It was argued for the plaintiff in error that these words,
"the Territory," not being restricted to the Territory of Utah,
mean any Territory in which the land lies, of which a widow
seeks to be endowed.
To this it was answered that, if such had been the intention
of Congress, :it would have been expressed, either by such
general words as "a Territory," or "any Territory," or else,
as in section 13, by such a definition as "the Territory in which
such property may be;" and that the words "the Territory,
without more, in section 18, grammatically and naturally refer
to the last antecedent, which is the Territory of Utah, mentioned in section 17. But there are broader considerations
leading to the same result.
Most of the other sections of the act relate to the Territory
of Utah only; and, whenever it is intended to include other
Territories in them, the intention is expressed in so many
words, either in the section itself, or in earlier statutes to
which it distinctly refers.

FRANCE v. CONNOR.
Opinion of the Court.

Not only the three sections which immediately precede
section 18, but the seven sections which immediately follow

it, are expressly restricted to the Territory of Utah.
The restriction to the Territory of Utah of the provisions
denying the right of voting to women, in section 20, and to
polygamists, in section 24, is the more marked, because women
had the right tQ vote in the Territory of Wyoming; Wyoming
Rev. Stat. of 1887, § 1103; and the act of Congress of 1882,
referred to in section 24, had prohibited polygamists from
voting in any Territory of the United States. Act of March
22, 1882, c.47, § 8 ; 22 Stat. 31.
The only section,- other than section 18, in the act of Congress of 1887, which affects the title that any member of a
man's family shall take in his estate, is section 12, enacting
that illegitimate children shall take no share by descent or
distribution in the estate of the father; and this section is
restricted to the Territory of Utah, although section 7 of the
act of 1882, referred to in the saving clause of this section,
legitimated the issue of Mormon marriages "in any Territory
of the United States." 22 Stat. 31.
The well known fact, that the practice of plural marriages
was more common and more firmly rooted in Utah than in
any other Territory, afforded special reasons for protecting
the lawful wife and children, by reinstating in that Territory
the rules of the common law, securing to her the right of
dower, and not permitting illegitimate children to inherit,
from their father.
Under the laws of the Territory of Utah, as existing at the
time of the passage of the act of Congress of 1887, all illegitimate children inherited from their father; no right of dower
was allowed; and there was no community of property between husband and wife, but all property acquired by either,
before or after marriage, remained his or her separate property absolutely. Compiled Laws of Utah of 1876, §§ 677,
1020, 1022.
At the time of the passage of the act of 1887 there were,
beside Utah and Wyoming, six other organized Territories of
the United States - New Mexico, Arizona, Dakota, Montana,-

