THE DELAWARE.
Syllabus.

THE DELAWARE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 555, 570. Argued January 10, 1896. -Decded

March 2, 1896.

Gedney Channel, being the main entrance to the harbor of New York, is
as much a part of the inland waters of the United States within the
meaning of the act of March 3, 1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438, as the harbor
within the entrance.
The real point aimed at by Congress in that act was to allow the original
code (Rev. Stat. § 4233) to remain in force so far as it applies to pilotage waters, or waters within which it is necessary, for safe navigation,
to have a local pilot.
The Delaware, returning to New York in ballast only, entered Gedney
Channel upon a true course of W. by S. About the same time, the
Talisman, a tug towing a pilot boat, entered it from the northwest, upon
a course about S.SE., and not far from a right angle to the course of the
Delaware. Under these circumstances, as they were approaching each
other on crossing courses, the Delaware was bound to keep out of the
way, and the Talisman to keep her course. The Delaware made no effort
to avoid the Talisman, but kept on its course until abqut a minute before
collision, when its engines were stopped too late. The Talisman was
struck and sunk, and became a total loss. Held, that the Delaware was
grossly in fault.
The Supervising Inspector's rules, so far as they require whistles to be
used, ought to be construed in harmony with the International Code, and,
as applied to vessels upon crossing courses, they mean that when a single
blast is given by the preferred steamer she intends to comply with her
legal obligation to keep her course, and throw upon the other steamer
the duty of avoiding her.
It is the primary duty of a steamer, having the right of way when'approaching another steamer, to keep her course; all authorities agree that this
rule applies so long as there is nothing to indicate that the approaching
steamer will not discharge her own obligation to keep out of the way;
and it is settled law in the United States that the preferred steamer
will not be held in fault for maintaining her course and speed, so long
as it is possible for the other to avoid her by porting, at least in the
absence of some distinct indication that she is about to fail in her duty.
The facts stated and referred to in the opinion leave too much doubt
about the fault of the Talisman to justify the court in apportioning the
damages.
The Delaware is not exempted from liability by the provisions of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
of February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, entitled "An act relating to
navigation of vessels, bills of lading, and to certain obligations, duties
and rights in connection with the carriage of property."

THis was a suit in admiralty instituted by Charles H. Win-

nett, the owner and master, and the crew of .the tug Talisman
against the steamship Delaware, to recover damages for a
collision between these vessels, which occurred on September
16, 1893, about ten o'clock in the morning, in Gedney Channel, off Sandy Hook, at the outer entrance of New York harbor, and within three miles from land.
In the District Court the Delaware was held solely in fault,
61 Fed. Rep. 525, and a decree was entered against her for
$21,318.70. Her owner thereupon appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the decree of the District
Court as to the fault of the steamship, and certified to this
court certain questions as to whether she was absolved from
liability by the provisions of the act of February 13,1893, c. 105,
27 Stat. 445, entitled "An act relating to navigation of vessels,
bills of lading and to certain obligations, duties and rights in
connection with the carriage of property." This certificate
was docketed as a separate cause. The owner of the Delaware thereupon applied for and was granted a writ of certiorari to bring up the whole record, upon the ground that the
Circuit Court of Appeals erred in failing to find contributory
negligence on the part of the Talisman.
The first three sections, containing the material provisions
of the act in question, commonly known as the Harter Act,
are printed in the margin.'
I An act relating to navigation of vessels, bills of lading, and to certain
obligations, duties, and rights in connection With the carriage of property.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That it shall not be lawful for the
manager, agent, master, or owner of any vessel transporting merchandise
or property from or between ports of the United States and foreign ports
to insert in any bill of lading or shipping document any clause, covenant, or
agreement whereby it, he, or they shall be relieved from liability for loss or
damage arising from negligence, fault, or failure in proper loading, stowage,
custody, care, or proper delivery of any and all lawful merchandise or property committed to its or their charge. Any and all words or clauses of

THE DELAWARE.Opinion of the Court.

.Mr.J. Parker Eirlin for appellant.
Mr. Barrington Putnam for appellees.
MR. JusrioE BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

There are two questions involved in this case: first, whether
the tug Talisman was guilty of a fault contributing to the collision; and, 8ecnd, whether the Delaware is exonerated from
liability under the act of February 13, 1893, known as the
Harter Act, by the fact that her owners had used due diligence to make her seaworthy, and provide her with competent
officers and crew.
1. Gedney Channel, in which the collision took place, is a
dredged passage about 1100 feet in width, running from the
open ocean in a direction about W. NW. I W., and constituting the main entrance to New York harbor. It is defined by
such import inserted in bills of lading or shipping receipts shall be null and
void and of no effect.
SEC. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any vessel transporting merchandise or property from or between ports of the United States of America
and foreign ports, her owner, master, agent, or manager, to insert in any
bill of lading or shipping document any covenant or agreement whereby
the obligations of the owner or owners of said vessel to exercise due diligence, properly equip, man, provision, and outfit said vessel, and to make
said vessel seaworthy and capable of performing her intended voyage, or
whereby the obligations of the master, officers, agents, or servants to carefully handle and stow her cargo and to care for and properly deliver same,
shall in any wise be lessened, weakened, or avoided.
SEC. 3. That if the owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or
property to or from any port in the United States of America shall exercise
due diligence to make the said vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped, and supplied, neither.the vessel, her owner or owners,
agent or charterers, shall become or be held responsible for damage or loss
resulting from faults or errors in navigation or in the management of said
vessel, nor shall the vessel, her owner or owners, charterers, agent or master, be held liable for losses arising from dangers of the sea or other navigable waters, acts of God, or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality
or vice of the thing carried, or from insufficiency of package, or seizure
under legal process, or for loss resulting from any act or omission of the
shipper or owner of the goods, his agent or representative, or from saving
or attempting to save life or property at sea, or from any deviation in rendering such service.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

462

Opinion of the Court.

red buoys, bearing even numbers, along its northerly side, at
intervals of 2000 feet, and corresponding black buoys, bearing
odd numbers, on the southerly side, at the same distance
apart. Two iron can buoys, sometimes called fairway buoys,
the northerly one red and the southerly one black, mark the
outer entrance to the channel. About a mile out to sea beyond the channel entrance an automatic whistling buoy marks
the prolongation of the central axis of the channel. Directly
,outside the entrance is located the station pilot boat, which
anchors near black buoy No. 1, and sends out small boats to
take off pilots who have been taking vessels to sea through the
channel. Within the bar at the other end of the channel the
water widens and the Swash Channel diverges from the main
ship channel, as shown in the following diagram:

MAF ENTRANlCE
TO
PORTOF NEW YORK.
GEDNEY

CHANNEL

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

Counsel upon one, if not upon both, sides have assumed,
upon the authority of The Aurania and The _Republlo, 29
Fed. Rep. 98, and Singlehurst v. Compagnie Transatlantique,

11 U. S. App. 693, that Gedney Channel is within the "coast
waters of the United States," and therefore that the vessels
involved were subject to the Revised International Regulations of March 3, 1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438. We think that
they are mistaken in this assumption.
The International Code for preventing collisions was first
adopted by act of April 29, 1864, now incorporated into the
Revised Statutes as section 4233, and was made applicable
generally to the "vessels of the Navy and of the mercantile
marine of the United States." This code remained substantially unaffected by Congressional legislation until March 3,
1885, when the Revised International Regulations for preventing collisions at sea were adopted by act of Congress, and
made applicable to "the navigation of all public and private
vessels of the United States upon the high seas and in all
coast waters of the United States." By section 2, all laws
inconsistent with these rules were repealed, except as to the
navigation of such vessels within the harbors, lakes, and
inland waters of the United States. As to such waters, the
original code of 1864 still remains in force, explained and
supplemented by the rules of the Supervising Inspectors.
The act of 1885 did not attempt to draw the line between
the high seas and the coast waters of the United States, on
the one hand, and the harbors and inland waters, on the
other. Nor was it possible by any general legislation to do
so. We are of opinion, however, that the dredged entrance
to a harbor is as much a part of the inland waters of the
United States within the meaning of this act as the harbor
within the entrance, and that the real point aimed at by Congress was to allow the original code to remain in force so far
as it applied to pilotage waters, or waters within which it is
necessary for safe navigation to have a local pilot. It is important that a pilot, while conducting a vessel in or out of a
harbor, should not traverse waters governed by two inconsistent codes of signals, and if there are to be two codes, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

line should be drawn between the high seas, and the inland
waters wherein the services of a local pilot are requisite for
safe navigation. If, as has been suggested, ocean steamers
were authorized or compelled to observe the new Revised
Rules until their arrival at their docks, while vessels engaged
in local traffic were observing the original rules, great confusion would result, and the probabilities of collision be materially increased. It is evident that all vessels running upon
the same waters should be bound by the same rules and
regulations in respect to their navigation.
Recent legislation has not only established the proper practice for the future, but has explained what must have been
the intention of Congress in passing the original act. By act
of February 19, 1895, c. 102, 28 Stat. 672, "to adopt special
rules for the navigation of harbors, rivers and inland waters
of the United States," these waters are declared to be still
subject to the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 4233 (the original code)
and to the regulations of the Supervising Inspectors, §§ 4412
and 4413. By section 2 the Secretary of the Treasury was
authorized and directed from time to time "to designate and
define by suitable bearings or ranges with light houses, light
vessels, buoys or coast objects, the line dividing the high seas
from rivers, harbors and inland waters." Pursuant to this
authority the Secretary of the Treasury, on May 10, 1895, by
Department Circular 95, designated and defined the dividing
line between the high seas and the rivers, harbors and inland
waters oT New York as follows: " From Navesink (southerly)
Light-House NE. J E., easterly, to Scotland Light Vessel,
thence N. NE. J E. through Gedney Channel Whistling Buoy
(proposed position) to Rockaway Point Life-Saving Station."
The whole of Gedney Channel is within this line.
This of course must be accepted as the dividing line as to
all future cases; but as the Secretary of the Treasury was
merely directed to carry out the existing law upon the subject, we think it should be treated as cogent evidence of what
the law had been before, and we are therefore of the opinion
that Gedney Channel should be treated, for the purposes of
this case, as belonging to the inland waters of the United

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

States. We are the less reluctant to take this, course in view
of the fact that the pilots of both steamers appear to have
acted in contemplation of the Supervising Inspectors' Rules
rather than the Revised International Rules and Regulations.
The Delaware was an English tank steamship of 2195 tons
registered, 345 feet in length, and was engaged in the business of transferring petroleum in bulk from New York to
London and Liverpool. She was returning to New York in
ballast only, and had taken a duly licensed Sandy Hook pilot,
who was in charge of her navigation at the time of the collision. The Talisman was an ocean tug, 100 feet in length,
and at the time of the collision was engaged in towing the
station pilot boat Edmund Driggs, with a hawser 15 fathoms
in length, from a point some distance to the northward of the
northerly line of Gedney Channel, diagonally across the channel towards the pilot station outside of the black fairway buoy,
on the southerly side of the channel.
During the morning of the collision the weather was cloudy
and overcast- until the Delaware got within three or four miles
of the outer end of the channel, when a heavy rain squall came
on, which lasted for about ten minutes, during which time the
vessels were lost to view of each other. About four or five
minutes before the collision, and when the vessels were probably a mile or more apart, the squall passed over, and each
vessel sighted the other, and kept her in sight from that time
until the collision. As the squall passed over, the pilot of the
steamship made the outer red buoy about half a point on his
port bow, and thereupon starboarded one point to bring the
buoy upon his starboard bow, and was brought into the channel upon a true course of W. by S. At the same time the
Talisman was entering the channel from the northwest, upon
a course about S. SE., and not far from a Tight angle to the
course of the Delaware.
Without inquiring minutely into the respective manceuvres
and courses of the two steamers, it is sufficient to say that
they were approaching each other upon crossing courses, and
that under the 19th Rule, the steamship, having the Talisman
on her starboard side, was bound to keep out of her way. By
VOL.

CLXI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Rule 23 there was a corresponding obligation on the part of
the Talisman to keep her course. The Delaware .made no
effort to avoid the tug. Instead of porting as she entered the
channel and passing up the starboard side, and astern of the
Talisman, the pilot kept her on her course until about a minute before the collision, when the master, who had been below,
ran hurriedly on the bridge, and seeing the Talisman about
three points on his starboard bow, and close at hand, ordered
the helm hard-a-starboard, and the engine stopped; though
both orders were given too late to be of any service. The
Delaware struck, the Talisman upon the port quarter, about
15 feet from the stern, listing her heavily to starboard, and
continued to push her sidewise through the water for about
300 feet, when she sank near the southerly side cf the channel. A fireman who was trying to cast off the tow line was
drowned; 'Captain Winnett's arm was severely fractured; and
the tug became a total loss. It is evident from the bare statement that the Delaware was grossly at fault, and no claim is
made to the contrary.
2. It is insisted, however, that the Talisman was also in
fault in several particulars. It seems that, when the Delaware was about a mile off, the Talisman blew a single blast
of her whistle, which does not appear to have been answered.
When the Delaware was from a quarter to an eighth of a mile
off, and the Talisman was a little above, or near the northerly
edge of the channel, she sounded another single blast, which
was not answered, although three of the libellant's witnesses
from the Talisman seemed to have understood that it was
answered. When the Delaware was about a length off, the
Talisman sounded an alarm signal of three blasts, but did not
change her helm or reduce her speed before the collision.
In this connection, the Talisman was charged with a violation of the Supervising Inspectors' rules, in not porting her
helm and directing her course to starboard after sounding her
first signal. These rules, however, so far as they require the
whistle to be used, are applicable rather to vessels meeting
end on or nearly end on, and the signals therein provided for
are designed to apprise the approaching vessel of the inten-

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the steamer giving the signal, to port or starboard, as
the case may be. As applied to vessels upon crossing courses,
however, it means, when a single blast is given by the preferred steamer, nothing more than that she intends to comply
with her legal obligation to keep her course, and throw upon
the other steamer the duty of avoiding her. Such was evidently the view taken by both parties in this case, as there is
not the slightest evidence that the pilot of the Delaware was
misled by these signals, nor is a failure to port charged in the
answer, or suggested in the testimony, as a fault on the part
of the Talisman. These rules, so far as they require whistles
to be used, ought to be construed in harmony with the International Code. If they were so construed as to require the
preferred vessel to port, after having blown a blast of her
whistle, it would involve a violation of article 23, which
requires her to keep her course. On the other band, if they
be construed as applying chiefly to steamers meeting end on,
or nearly end on, under Rule 18, they would frequently aid in
solving any doubt with regard to the proposed course of the
vessel giving the signal, and thus enable the meeting vessel
to govern her own course accordingly. Certainly the rules
should not be construed to require the steamer giving the signal to violate a plain statutory rule of navigation.
As bearing upon the proper interpretation of these rules, it
is pertinent to observe that to Rule 23 of the act "to regulate
navigation upon the Great Lakes and their connecting and
contributory waters," approved February 8, 1895, c. 64, 28
Stat. 645, -a rule which corresponds in this particular feature with the Supervising Inspectors' Regulations, and with
article 19 of the Revised International Regulations,- there is
added the following qualification: "But the giving or answering a signal by a vessel required to keep her course shall not
vary the duties or obligations of the respective vessels."
The main fault charged upon the Talisman, however, is that
of not stopping and reversing, when the failure of the Delaware to take measures to avoid her became apparent. In The
Britannia,153 U. S. 130, which was also a case of a starboard
hand collision, the preferred steamer, the Beaconsfield, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

held to have been in fault for stopping and reversing under
similar circumstances-in other words, for doing what it is
claimed the Talisman should have done in this case. Two
members of the court dissented upon the ground that the
Beaconsfield, having been brought into a position of peril by
the negligence of the Britannia, was not in fault for stopping
and reversing; the substance of their opinion being that,
under such circumstances, the master might exercise his judgment as to the best method of avoiding a collision, and that
an error in judgment should not be imputed to him as a fault.
In neither opinion, however, was it intimated that, if the
Beaconsfield had kept her speed, she would have been in fault
for so doing.
The duty of a steamer having the right of way, when
approaching another steamer charged with the obligation of
avoiding her, has been the subject of much discussion both in
the English and American courts. Tha t her primary duty
is to keep her .course is beyond all. controversy. It is expressly required by the 19th Rule of the original International
Code, (Rev. Stat. § 4233,) and of the 16th Rule of the Revised
Code of 1885, and doubtless applies so long as there is nothing
to indicate that the approaching steamer will not discharge
her own obligation to keep out of the way. The divergence
between the authorities begins at the point where the master
of the preferred steamer suspects that the obligated steamer is
about to fail in her duty to avoid her. The weight of English,
and, perhaps, of American authorities, is to the effect, that, if
the master of the preferred steamer has any reason to believe
that the other will not take measures to keep out of her way,
he may treat this as a "special circumstance," under Rule 24,
"rendering a departure " from the rules "necessary to avoid
immediate danger." Some even go so far as to hold it the
duty of the preferred vessel to stop and reverse, when a continuance upon her course involves an apparent danger of collision. Upon the other hand, other authorities hold that the
master of the preferred steamer ought not to be embarrassed
by doubts as to his duty, and, unless the two vessels be in &xtremi8, he is bound to hold to his course and speed.

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

The cases of The Br'itannia,153 U. S. 130, and The Northfeld, 154: U. S. 629, must be regarded, however, as settling
the law that the preferred steamer will not be held in fault for
maintaining her course and speed, so long as it is possible for
the other to avoid her by porting, at least in the absence of
some distinct indication that she is about to fail in her duty.
If the master of the preferred steamer were at liberty to speculate upon the possibility, or even of the probability, of the
approaching steamer failing to do her duty and keep out of
his way-, the certainty that the former will hold his course,
upon which the latter has a right to rely, and which it is the
very object of the rule to insure, would give place to doubts
on the part of the master of the obligated steamer as to
whether he would do so or not, and produce a timidity and
feebleness of action on the part of both, which would bring
.about more collisions than it would prevent. Belden v. Chase,
150 U. S. 674; The Highgate, 62 L. T. R. 841 ; S. C. 6 Asp.
Mar. Law Cases, 512.
In the case under consideration there was really nothing to
apprise the tug that the Delaware would not port and go
under her stern, until the collision became inevitable. The
vessels were in plain sight of each other. The Delaware was
entering a channel, whose course was marked by buoys, and
she could not possibly have continued her then course without
soon crossing the line of black buoys, which marked the
southerly edge of the channel. There was every reason to
suppose that, as soon as she passed the line of red buoys at
the northerly edge, she would port and take her proper course
up the channel, and if for any reason she was unable to do
this, it was her plain duty to apprise the tug of the fact either
by blowing the starboard signal of two whistles, or an alarm
whistle, to indicate that the circumstances were such as to
render it impossible for her to fulfil her obligation to keep
out of the way of the tug. If she had done so a different
-question would have been presented. Until the last moment
the tug had a right to assume that she would comply with the
rule. Had the tug stopped and reversed, she might not only
have brought about a collision with the Delaware, but would

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

have incurred the danger of a collision with her own tow. It
is true the Delaware did not answer the signals of the Talisman as she should have done, but Captain Winnett, who was
in charge, testifies that he was under the impression that she
answered the first whistle, and made an allegation to that
effect in his libel. He appears to have been mistaken in this,
but as the morning was somewhat thick he might have
thought so, and was not in fault for acting upon that hypothesis. The second whistle was given so late that the vessels
were evidently in extremis before a reasonable time had
elapsed in which to answer it. In any event there is too
much doubt about the fault of the Talisman to justify us in apportioning the damages.
3. Is the Delaware exempted from liability by the aot of
February 13, 1893, entitled "An act relating to navigation
of vessels, bills of lading and to certain obligations, duties
and rights in connection with the carriage of property"?
This is the first case in which this act, which has an important bearing upon the rights of shippers, has been called to
our attention.
Thefirst section declares it to be unlawful for the manager,
etc., of any vessel engaged in foreign trade, to insert in any
bill of lading any covenant or agreement whereby the vessel
or her owner "shall be relieved from liability for loss or
damage arising from negligence, fault or failure in proper
loading, stowage, custody, care or proper delivery of any and
all lawful merchandise or property committed to its or their
charge," and that any such clause shall be null and void.
The second section declares it to be unlawful for any such
vessel to insert in any bill of lading any covenant whereby
the obligation of the owner to exercise due diligence to
properly equip, man, provision, and outfit said vessel, and to
make her seaworthy, and to carefully handle and stow her
cargo, and to care for and .properly deliver the same, shall in
anywise be lessened, weakened, or avoided. The third section
provides that, if the owner shall exercise due diligence to
make her seaworthy, "neither the vessel, her owner or
owners, agent, or charterers shall become or be held responsi

THE DELAWAREF.
Opinion of the Court

ble for damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation -or in the management of said vessel," nor shall they
be "liable for losses arising from dangers of the sea, or other
navigable waters, acts of God or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality or vice of the thing carried, or from
insufficiency of package, or seizure under legal process, or for
loss resulting from any act or omission of the shipper or
owner of the goods, his agent or representative, or from
saving or attempting to save life or property at sea, or froin
any deviation in rendering such service." The fourth section
makes it obligatory to issue to shippers a bill of lading,
stating certain particulars, which document shall be prima
facie evidence of the receipt of the merchandise therein described. The flfth section is penal in its character. The
sixth reserves the application of the limited liability act; and
the seventh excepts vessels engaged in the transportation of
live animals.
Respondent relies, in this connection, upon the first clause
of section 3: "That if the owner of any vessel, transporting
merchandise or property to or from any port in the United
States of America, shall exercise due diligence to make the
said vessel, in all respects, seaworthy and properly manned,
equipped and supplied, neither the vessel, her owner or owners,
agent or charterers, shall become or be held responsible for
damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or
in the management of said vessel."
It is entirely clear, however, that the whole object of the act
is to modify the relations previously existing between the vessel and her cargo. This is apparent not only from the title of
the act, but from its general teno4 and provisions, which are
evidently designed to fix the relations .between the cargo and
the vessel, and to prohibit contracts restricting the liability
of the vessel and owners in certain particulars connected with
the construction, repair and outfit of .the vessel, and the care
and delivery of the cargo. The act was an outgrowth of
attempts, made in recent years, to limit, as far as possible, the
liability of the vessel and.her owners, by inserting in bills of
lading stipulations against losses arising from unseaworthiness,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

bad stowage and negligence in navigation, and other forms of
liability which had been held by the courts of England, if not
of this country, to be valid as contracts and to be respected
even when they exempted the ship from the consequences of
her own negligence. As decisions were made by the courts
from time to time, holding the vessel for non-excepted liabilities, new clauses were inserted in the bills of lading to meet
these decisions until the common law responsibility of carriers
by sea had been frittered away to such an extent that several
of the leading commercial associations, both in this country
and in England, had taker the subject in hand and suggested
amendments to the maritime law in line with those embodied
in the Harter Act. The exigencies which led to the passage
of the act are graphically set forth in a petition addressed by
the Glasgow Corn Trade Association to the Marquis of Salisbury and embodied in a report of the Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives. As
a part of the history of the times, this is a proper subject of
consideration. American Net & Twine c. v. TForthington,
141 U. S. 468, 474.
"That, taking advantage of this practical monopoly, the
owners of the steamship lines combined to adopt clauses in
their bills of lading, very seriously and unduly limiting their
obligations as carriers of the goods, and refuse to accept consignments for carriage on any other terms than those dictated
by themselves.
"That this policy has been gradually extended by the steamship owners until at the present time their bills of lading are
so unreasonable and unjust in their terms as to exempt them
from almost every conceivable risk and responsibility as carriers of goods.
"For example, many of these bills of lading provide, in
addition to the usual and reasonable exceptions, that the carriers shall not be liable for loss or damage occasioned by negligence of the master, pilot, stevedores, crew or others in their
employment; nor for bad stowage; nor for defect or insufficiency of the hull, machinery or fittings of a vessel, whether
occurring before or after receiving the goods on board; nor

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

for the admission of water into the vessel by any cause, and
whether for the purpose of extinguishing fire or for any other
purpose, and whether occurring previously or subsequently to
the vessel's sailing; nor for the differences between the quality, marks or brands of flour or other goods shipped and those
of the goods actually found to be on board of the steamer (the
marks, numbers or description in the bill of lading notwithstanding); nor for loss of weight ; nor for detention, delay or
deviation.
"Such bills of lading also frequently exempt the carrier
from any claim not intimated before delivery of the goods,
and at the same time provide that the master porterage of
the goods on arrival of the steamer shall be done by the steamship owners or their agents at the expense and risk of the
receivers, so that the receivers have no -opportunity before
the delivery of their goods of ascertaining whether they are
damaged or not, or how or in what part of the hold they may
have been stowed.
"That bills of lading have thus become so lengthened, complex and involved, that in the ordinary course of business it is
almost impossible for shippers of goods to read or check their
various conditions, even .if objections would be listened to, and
the hardship is aggravated by the fact that new and more
stringent conditions are constantly being added by the shipowners to provide for new questions or claims that have
arisen.

"That a striking illustration of this is the fact that recently
a clause has been added to certain steamship forms of bill of
lading actually giving the shipowners a right of lien over, and
the right to sell the goods entrusted to them for carriage, not
only for the freight upon the goods .themselves, but for all
debts due, either by the shippers, or the consignees of such
goods, to the carriers or their agents, though these debts may
have arisen on contracts unconnected with the carriage of
such goods. The effect of this clause is to render the bill of
lading, which has been of such essential service on account
of its negotiable character in promoting the commercial pros.
perity of Great Britain, a document unfit for negotiation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

No complaint was made in this connection of the liability
of vessels under the ordinary forms of bills of lading, or their
liability to other vessels for the consequences of their negligence, the evil to be remedied being one produced by the
oppressive clauses forced upon the shippers of goods by the
vessel owners. It is true that the general words of the third
section, above quoted, if detached from the context and
broadly construed as a separate provision, would be susceptible of the meaning claimed, but when read in connection
with ihe other sections, and with the remainder of section 3,
they show conclusively that the liability of a vessel to other
vessels with which it may come in contact was not intended
to be affected.
The first, second, fourth, and seventh sections deal exclusively with bills of lading and their covenants, and the third
section, after using the general language relied upon by the
respondent here, with regard to non-liability for faults or
errors in navigation or in the managemhnt of the vessel, contains a further exemption of "loss arising from dangers of the
sea, or other navigable waters, acts of God or public enemies,
or the inherent defect, quality or vice of the thing carried,
or from insufficiency of package, or seizure under legal process, or for loss resulting from any act or omission of the
shipper or owner of the goods, his agent or representative,
or from saving or attempting to save life or property at sea,
.or from any deviation in rendering such service." These
provisions have no possible application to the relations of
one vessel to another, and are mainly a reenactment of certainwell-known provisions of the common law applicable to
the duties and liabilities of vessels to their cargoes. The fact,
too, that by section 6 the various sections of the Revised
Statutes, which embody the limited liability act, are preserved unimpaired, would seem to indicate that the later act
was not intended to receive the broad construction claimed.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

