OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

allowed appeals from those courts irrespective of the sum or
value of the matter in dispute in cases "touching patent
rights"; and while we admit that a patent right does not
exist while the proceeding to obtain it is pending, yet we
think that such a proceeding constituted a case touching patent rights within section 699. And Gandy v. Marble was an
appeal from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
taken before the passage of the act of March 3, 1885, and
when the final decrees of that court could be revised by this
court on appeal in the same manner and under the same regulations as decrees of Circuit Courts. Rev. Stat. ยง 705; Rev.

Stat. Dist. Col. ยง 846.

Appeal dismissed.

BALTZER v. NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPEEME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 93.

Argued February 8, 4, 1896. - Decided March 2, 1896.

The decision of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, made in an action torecover on bonds issued by the State in 1868, that the constitution of
1868, (in force when the bonds were issued,) giving the Supreme Court
of the State jurisdiction to hear claims against the State, but providing
that its decision should be merely recommendatory, to be reporfed to the
legislature for its action, had been repealed by an amendment to the constitution made in 1879 which forbade the general assembly to assume or
provide for the payment of debts incurred by authority of the convention of 1868, or by the legislature that year or in two sessions thereafter
unless ratified by the people at an election held for that purpose, and
that the court -was without jurisdiction to render judgment of recommendation on a claim against the State whose validity was thus denied
by the state constitution, did not in any way impair the obligation of
contracts entered into by the State when the constitution of 1868 was
inforce.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Simon Sterne for plaintiff in error.
M rM.James -. Shepherd and Mr. Charles .M. Busbee, (with
whom was Mr. P. .1. Osborne on the brief,) for defendant in.
error.

BALTZER v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTiE. WmTE.delivered

the opinion of the court.

By an ordinance of the Constitutional Convention of the
State of North Carolina, held in 1868, certain bonds were
authorized to be issued in aid of the Chatham Railroad.
Whilst there was some question raised on the subject, in the
discussion at bar, it may be, for the purposes of this case,
conceded that at the time the ordinance authorizing the
bonds was passed, section 11, article 4 of the constitution of
North Carolina, adopted in 1868, was in existence, and was
as follows:
" 0aims dgainst the State.- The Supreme Court shall have
original jurisdiction to hear claims against the State, but its
decision shall be merely recommendatory. No process in the
nature of execution shall issue thereon; they shall be reported
to the next session of the general assembly for its action."
In 1879 an amendment to the constitution of North Carolina was submitted by the legislature of that State to the
people thereof, and this amendment was ratified by a popular
vote in 1880. It is as follows:
"Nor shall the general assembly assume or pay or authorize the collection of any tax to pay, either directly or indirectly, expressed or implied, any debt or bond incurred or
issued by authority of the convention of the year 1868, nor
any debt or bond incurred or issued by the legislature of the
year 1868, either at the special session of the year 1868 or at
its regular sessions of the years 1868-'69 and 1869-70, except
the bonds issued to fund the interest on the old debts of the
State, unless the proposing to pay the same shall have first
been submitted to the people and by them ratified by the
vote of a majority of all the qualified voters of the State
at a regular election held for that purpose."
After the incorporation of this amendment in the constitution of the State, the plaintiff in error commenced in the
Supreme Court of North Carolina an action against that
State for the recovery of the amount of interest due on coupons forming part of certain bonds which had been issued
under the ordinance of the Constitutional Convention of 1868,
VoI CLXI-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

above referred to. The attorney general of the State, reserving all its rights to plead to the jurisdiction, answered deny-

ing both the existence and validity of the bonds and coupons
declared on, and pleading the statute of limitations of three
and ten years. Thereupon a motion was made by the attorney general on behalf of the State to dismiss the action for
want of jurisdiction. This motion prevailed, the court referring, as its grounds for dismissing the suit, to the reasons
assigned by it in the previous cases of Horne v. The State,
84 N. C. 462, and Baltzer v. The State, 104 N. C. 165. The
cases thus referred to held that the power of the court to
recommend claims to the favorable consideration of the legislature had - guoad claims identical in legal nature with the
coupons sued on -been repealed by the constitutional amendment to which we have referred, and that the court was without jurisdiction to render judgment of recommendation on a
claim against the State when its validity was denied by the
state constitution. To the judgment thus rendered this writ
of error is prosecuted.
In Railroad Co. v. Tennessee, 101 U. S. 337, 339, this court
was called upon to' determine whether the repeal, by a
Sfate, of a statutory provision authorizing itself to be sued
in its own courts, but which gave no power to the courts to
enforce their judgments, and which enacted that when such
judgments were rendered the money could only be obtained
through an appropriation by the legislature, was an impairment of the obligation of a contract, entered into by the State
whilst the authority conferred by the statute was unrepealed.
In speaking on this subject this court, by Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, said:
"The question we have to decide is, not whether the State
is liable for the debts of the bank to the railroad company,
but whether it can be sued in its own courts to enforce that
liability. The principle is elementary that a State cannot be
sued in its own courts without its consent. This is a privilege
of sovereignty. It is conceded that when this suit was begun
the State had withdrawn its consent to be sued, and the only
question now to be determined is whether that withdrawal

BALTZER v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

impaired the obligation of the contract which the railroad
company seeks to enforce. If it did, it -was inoperative, so
far as this suit is concerned, and the original consent remains
in full force, for all the purposes of the particular contract or
liability here involved.
"The remedy, which is protected by the contract clause of
the Constitution, is something more than the privilege of
having a claim adjudicated. Mere judicial inquiry into the
rights of parties is not enough. There must be the power to
enforce the results of such an inquiry .before there can be said
to be a remedy which the Constitution deems part of a contract. Inquiry is one thing; remedy another. Adjudication
is of no value as a remedy unless enforcement follows. It is
of no practical importance that a right has been established if
the right is no more available afterwards than before. The
Constitution preserves only such remedies as are required to
enforce a contract.
"Here the State has consented to be sued only for the purposes of adjudication. The power of the courts ended when
the judgment was rendered. In effect, all that has been done
is to give persons holding claims against the State the privilege of having them audited by the courts instead of some
appropriate accounting officer. When a judgment has been
rendered, the liability of the State has been judicially ascertained, but there the power of the court ends. The State is
at liberty to determine for itself whether to pay the judgment
or not. The obligations of the contract have been finally
determined, but the claimant has still only the faith and credit
of the State to rely on for their fulfilment. The courts are
powerless. Everything after the judgment depends on the
will of the State. It is needless to say that there is no remedy
to enforce a contract if performance is left to the will of him
on whom the obligation to perform rests. A remedy is only
wanted after entreaty is ended. Consequently, that is not a
remedy in the legal sense of the term, which can only be carried into effect by entreaty.
"It is clear, therefore, that the right to sue, which the State
of Tennessee once gave its creditors, was not, in legal effect,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

a judicial remedy for the enforcement of its contracts, and
that the obligations of its contracts were not impaired,.
within" the meaning of the prohibitory clause of the Constitution of the United States, by taking away what was thus.
given."
Subsequently, in the case of Railroad Co. v. Alabama, 101
U. S. 832, 834, the same question was presented on a state of
facts, somewhat stronger in favor of the contention that there
was .a contract right, than that which had been considered in
the foregoing case. There the facts were that the statute of
the State, existing at the time the contract was made, not only
authorized a judgment to be rendered against the State, but
provided (we quote from the opinion) "that if a judgment
should be rendered against the State, it was the duty of the
comptroller, on the certificate of the clerk of the court, tgether with that of the judge who tried the cause, that the
recovery was just, to issue his warrant for the amount, but no.
certificate could issue until six months 'after the recovery of
the judgment. Code 1867, see. 2536. It was also the duty of
the treasurer to pay all warrants drawn on him by the comptroller under the authority of law; Code, sec. 442; but the constitution in force then and now provides in express terms that
no money should be drawn from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law. Const. 1834: and 1870,
art. 2, see. 2." Upon these facts, speaking through Mr. Chief
Justice Waite, this court again said:
"We are unable to see any substantial difference between
this case-and that of .RailroadCompany v. Tennessee, supara.
Under both the Tennessee and Alabama statutes the courts
are made little else than auditing boards. If the funds are
not voluntarily provided to meet the judgment, the courts are
not invested with power to supply them. In Alabama, a
warrant for the payment may be secured, but the State may
stop payment by withholding an appropriation. Perhaps the
judgment creditor may take one step further towards the
collection in Alabama than he can in Tennessee; but both
States may refuse to pay, that is, may refuse to make the
necessary appropriation, and the courts are powerless to com-

BALTZER v. NORTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.

pel them to do so. In neither State has there been granted
such a remedy for the enforcement of the contracts of the
sovereignty as may not, under the Constitution of the United
States, be taken away."
The statute of North Carolina which we now consider, and
which gave the courts of that State power to examine and
recommend claims against it to the legislature, is much more
restrictive than were the statutes of Tennessee and Alabama
passed on in the cases just cited. Applying to this case the
reasoning of this court in those cases expressed, it becomes
clear that the authority given by the State of North Carolina
to its court not being a part of the contract on which the
plaintiff in error had a right to rely, its repeal did not impair
the obligations of his contract in the sense conveyed by those
words when used in the Constitution of the United States.
This proposition so necessarily results from the authorities and
is so self-evident in reason that it was not denied in the discussion at bar. Indeed, it was frankly conceded that the exercise
by a State of the power to repeal a grant of authority to its
-courts to audit claims against itself, would not in any manner
violate the obligations of contracts which had been entered into
by the State at a time when the power existed. Yet, whilst this
-concession was made, it was asserted that the impairment of
the obligation of the contract, here claimed to have been accomplished, arises from the fact that the state court erroneously held that the amendment to the state constitution
repealed the court's authority to examine and recommend the
claim presented to it, when in fact such repeal had not taken
place. In other words, it was argued that although the right
to have the claim examined and recommended was existing
and unrepealed, the state court had impaired the obligations
of the contract by holding that such right was nonexisting
because repealed by a subsequent provision of the state constitution. But this is mere reasoning in a vicious circle, for
the concession that the right could be taken away without
violating the contract clause of the Constitution, necessarily
implied that t.e decision of the state court as to repeal vel
non in no way involved rights protected from impairment

