SPALDING v. MASON.
Statement of the Case.

may well waive a condition made by itself and not a condition
upon the exercise of the power. Such a waiver is not an
attempt to ratify a void contract, but is rather an admission
that the condition has been complied with in an equitable
sense.

If these views are sound in respect to the bonds issued to
the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company they apply
with stronger reason to the bonds issued to the St. Louis and
Southeastern Railway Company, because the subscription to
the stock of the latter company and the issue of bonds in payment took place before the decision of the case of The Town of
Eagle v.
/ohn,and in circumstances, as we have seen, that
rendered those bonds valid independently of the subsequent
vote by Saline County to refund.
We, therefore, answer the second question puzt to us by the
Circuit Court of Apeae in the aflrmative, and this renders a formal answer to the other questions unnecessary.

SPALDING v. "ASON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 55. Argued April 25, 26, 1895.-Decided March 2,1896.

An interlocutory order or decree of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia at special term may be reviewed by the general term on appeal,
without awaiting a final determination of the cause; and, on appeal to
this court from the final decree at general term, the entire record is
brought up for review.
After a critical examination of the record, the court, on the facts, finds that
the contract which forms the subject of controversy in this suit is a valid
contract, and directs judgment for the defendant in error for the principal sum which it finds to be due him, but orders a correction to be made
in the calculation of interest by the court below.

filed his bill in equity in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia for a discovery and an accounting by
Harvey Spalding as to certain fees collected by the defendant,
iMLASON

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in which Mason claimed a one fourth interest. The persons
joined with Spalding in this court are the sureties upon an
appeal bond given by Spalding at the general term, upon the
affirmance of a judgment in favor of Mason, having entered
judgment against all the parties who executed the appeal
bond.
The interest in question was acquired by Mason under an
agreement between himself and Spalding, executed June 3,
1880, which recited that Spalding had on hand about 1700
claims (and expected to receive enough more to make up
4000 claims) for moneys which was believed would be due
from the government to postmasters and late postmasters
upon a readjustment of salaries under the provisions of an
act approved June 12, 1866, and was in need of funds to
prosecute said claims and to urge the passage of bills then
pending in Congress looking to their settlement. By the
agreement Spalding sold to Mason for the consideration of
$2500, payable in instalments, a one fourth interest in the
fees to be collected from said claims, "free from charges for
expenses in prosecuting said claims to collection," and Spalding agreed to obtain as many claims as he could secure in
addition to those referred to in the contract as on hand or
expected to be acquired.
The Congressional bills alluded to in the agreement failed
of passage, but at the next Congress an act was passed and
was approved March 3, 1883, which was similar to one of said
bills which had failed of passage at the preceding Congress,
"except two unimportant verbal alterations, with a proviso
added as to the manner of application for readjustment of
salaries thereunder and the manner of payment thereof."
The bill averred that defendant had collected a large sum of
money as fees upgn the claims in question and was largely
indebted to complainant on account thereof, but that he had
failed and refused to render a statement of the amount of the
fees collected, and, in substance, the bill also averred that the
defendant Spalding was liable to account to complainant not
only for fees received by him from the four thousand claims
referred to in the agreement as on hand and expected to be

SPALDING v. MASON.
Statement of the Case.

obtained, but for all fees received by him from claimants
whose rights depended upon the act of 1866 and the act
of 1883.
In his answer Spalding averred that at the time of the negotiation'for the sale to Mason of an interest in his business he
had in his possession, and so informed Mason, lists of the
names of some 7500 postmasters, who he was satisfied were
embraced by the provisions of the bills then pending in the
respective houses of Congress. He alleged, in substance, that
upon the defeat of the House bill on January 17, 1881, the
rights of Mason under the contract of June 3, 1880, ceased,
and a new and oral contract was entered into between them,
by which in consideration of his (Spaldings) agreement to
make renewed efforts to procure favorable legislation and
secure the collection of the claims in question, and the retention by complainant of an interest in the claims covered by
the prior contract, complainant agreed to share in future expenses and make advances of money for such purposes; and
it was averred that in consequence of such renewed efforts on
defendant's part the act of March 3, 1883, became law. He
alleged that Mason failed to keep his agreement in respect to
advances, and for that reason, in September, 1882, he (Spalding) terminated the contract between them by notice to him,
but that in consideration of the $2500 paid under the first contract he promised to pay Mason in case of eventual success ten
thousand dollars, and it was averred that since said date he
had conducted his business upon that footing.
. The answer also alleged: "That besides the 1700 claims
in
defendant's hands on the 3d of June, 1880, he had received by
the 17th of January, 1881, some 500; and also between the
latter date and March 3, 1883, he had procured enough more
of these to make in all 4208, all of these being included in
the list of 7500 first above mentioned." It was charged that
in administering the act of March 3, 1883, the Postmaster
General adopted a construction of that act and of the act of
1866 which was entirely different from the construction of
the act of 1866 assumed by complainant and defendant when
,entering into the contract of June 3, 1880, and from that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

entertained by defendant when making up said list of 7500
persons who it was supposed would be entitled to claim
relief. He averred that the effect of the construction given
to the act of 1883 by the Postmaster General was not only to
defeat claims mentioned in said list, but to create a class of
new claims not contemplated at the time he made his original
contract with Mason.
It was also averred that, in consequence of the new claimants whose rights arose solely from this new construction,
defendant, subsequent to July, 1883, adapted his business
thereto, and secured 20,000 cases of postmasters other than
those who were upon the list of 7500 cases, or who had been
thought of as having claims under the act .aforesaid at any
time before the month of May, 1883.
The answer concluded with a statement as to the fees collected from the 4208 claims, (out of the list of 7500,) etc., and
averred that he (Spalding),had been put to an expense of
about ten per cent in collecting said fees by reason of a proviso in the act of 1883 requiring payments to be made directly
to the claimants, and denied "that excepting what may be
due to the complainant upon the above statement after deducting therefrom what he has already received thereabouts, any
debt is or will at any time be due to the said complainant by
this defendant because of the contract of June 3, 1880, and
subsequent dealing between the parties thereto."
An additional answer was subsequently filed giving a more
detailed account of the receipts, etc., in connection with all
the claims. Various sums were also set out claimed to have
been expended after January 17, 1881 - the date of the
alleged new and oral contract -for clerk hire, printing, office
rent, postage, discounts, interest, etc., in prosecuting the business. It was specifically stated that "this statement does
not include the ten per cent expended as in the original
answer stated to collect fees that had been received."
Issue was joined by the replication of complainant, and evidence was taken in the cause. Upon the hearing, the court,
on March 23, 1888, entered a decree which substantially rejected the complainant's demand for a right to share in any

SPALDING v. MASON.
Statement of the Case.

other fees than those resulting from such claims as were
included in the list of 7500 cases referred to in the answer,
and contemplated and considered by the .parties at the time
the contract was made.
It adjudged in favor of the complainant that he was entitled
to one fourth of each and every fee which had been collected
or might thereafter be collected upon claims included in
the list aforesaid, and that he was not chargeable with any
part of the expenses of the business of securing and prosecuting such claims. The cause was referred to an auditor to state
an account upon this basis. From this decree an appeal was
taken by the complainant to the general term, and, on January 23, 1889, that tribunal affirmed the decree of the special
term, and remanded the cause for further proceedings in accordance therewith. The opinion of the general term is
reported in 18 Dist. Col. 115.
The hearing before the auditor was then proceeded with.
He reported that Mason was entitled to share in the fees
received by Spalding, as well from claims which had been
forwarded to him by attorneys as in claims that had been received directly from claimants.
He also held that certain claims designated *byhalf numbers, that were entered in a book which purported to contain
the list of the 7500 cases heretofore referred to, constituted
part of the said list of 7500 cases, and that complainant was
entitled to share in the fees derived from said claims. He
allowed deductions made by Spalding for bank discounts on
collections of drafts for fees, as also sums paid attorneys for
collecting fees, upon the theory that such charges were not
expenses for securing and prosecuting the claims, which latter
claim had been rejected by the court; but he declined to allow a claim made by defendant for a deduction of twenty per
cent from complainant's share, for alleged expenses in collecting fees, on the ground that the same had not been sufficiently
proven. Other matters included in the report are not in controversy in this court.
Exceptions were filed to the auditor's report on behalf of
both parties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the amount found due by the auditor, as Alason's
-share of fees collected in accordance with the decree of refer•ence, the auditor allowed interest as follows: He took the sum
total of fees collected in each month and awarded interest to
run from the beginning of the succeeding month, and on the
payments made by Spalding to Mason on account of fees, he
allowed interest from the date of payment.
The court, at the special term, overruled all of the exceptions, and approved and confirmed the report of the auditor,
and entered judgment in favor of complainant for the sum of
$16,304.82 (being the principal sum of $13,669.11, and interest to date of decree). The court also reserved the right to
complainant to apply thereafter in this suit for an accounting'
as to fees which might subsequently be collected from claims
embraced in the list of 7500, these being the only claims in
which Mason was adjudged to have an interest.
On appeal the general term modified the judgment as to
interest by providing that the interest on the principal sum
should commence from August 9, 1887, the date of the demand by Mason for an accounting; set aside the reservation
of a right in favor of complainant to apply in this action for
a further accounting, and entered a decree for the amount
found due against the defendant Spalding and the sureties on
his bond for appeal. The cause was then brought here by
appeal.
_l'r. W. Willoughby for appellants.
.X r._.

L. Cole for appellee.

MR. JusrIC

WHITE,

after stating the -case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A preliminary objection has been advanced on behalf of the
appellee against a review of the first judgment rendered by
the general term, which determined the principles upon which
the account was to be taken by the auditor. It is claimed
that the appellants are concluded by the failure of the then
defendant Harvey Spalding to appeal from the decree of the

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

special term, when an appeal had been taken by the complainant.
Section 772 of the Revised Statutes, relating to the District
of Columbia, provides as follows:
"Any party aggrieved by any order, judgment or decree,
made or pronounced at" any special term, may, if the same
involve the merits of the action or proceeding, appeal therefrom to the general term of the Supreme Court, and upon
such appeal the general term shall review such order, judgment or decree, and affirm, reverse or modify the same, as
shall be just."
This section does not in terms confine the right of appeal
from the special to the general term to merely final orders or
final decrees in a cause. An interlocutory order or decree
which involves the merits may be reviewed by the general
term upon the appeal of a dissatisfied party without awaiting
a final determination of the cause. It is not made obligatory
upon a dissatisfied party to appeal, because the other party
has done so; and we are of opinion that, upon an appeal to
this court from a final decree of the general term (Rev. Stat.
§ 705) the entire record is brought up for review. Hitz v.
Jenks, 123 U. S. 297; District of Columbia v. MlcBlair, 124
U. S. 320; Grant v. Phoenix Mutual Life Ins. Co., 121 U. S.
105.
The errors specified in the brief of counsel are fifteen in
number. The first six and number thirteen attack the correctness of the decision holding that the complainant was
entitled to recover his proportion of the fees collected upon
claims embraced in the list of 7500 referred to in the answer.
Assignment seven covers the second exception taken to the
report of the auditor; assignments eight and nine question
the correctness of the finding "that the complainant is not
chargeable with any part of the expenses of the business of
securing and prosecuting" the claims contained in said list
of 7500 cases; the tenth and eleventh assignments of error
cover the fourth exception to the auditor's report; and the
twelfth assignment alleges error in the allowance of interest.
Before taking up, for detailed examination, these assign-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ments of error, it will be necessary to consider the claims
which the defendant Spalding represented at the time of the
execution of the contract of June 3, 1880, and his construction of the rights of the claimants.
We quqte the following statement from the brief of his
counsel:
"Under the provisions of the act of Jurie 22, 1854, c. 61,
10 Stat. 298, postmasters were paid for their services by commissions on the postage collected at their respective offices,
which commissions were adjusted by the Auditor of the Post
Office Department upon the returns for each quarter after the
said returns had been made by the postmaster and received by
the Department.
"By the act of July 1, 1864, c. 196, 13 Stat. 335, a complete change was made in the mode of regulating the compensation of postmasters. A salary system was adopted instead
of the commission system. The salaries were fixed for two
years in advance upon the basis of the lusiness of the past two
years, that is, the commissions upon the business of the past
two years were computed at the rate fixed by the act of 1854,
and the sum thus arrived at was made the fixed salary of the
office for ihe ensuing two years, a readjustment of the salaries
of every post office to be made upon this basis every two
years."
Under the provisions of the act of 1864 it necessarily followed that where the business of an office rapidly increased
the compensation earned by the postmaster fell below what
he would have received if his pay had been calculated by
commissions as under the act of 1854. It also followed that
if the business of the office fell off, the incumbent might receive
a larger' compensation than he would have been entitled to
under the previous act. The act of June 12, 1866, c. 114, 14
Stat. 59, directed the Postmaster General to readjust salaries
of postmisters when the quarterly returns showed that the
salary allowed the postmaster was ten per cent less than it
would have been had the provision of the act of 1864 continued in force. The claims.which Spalding was prosecuting
resulted from this act of 1866, and the reason for their prose-

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

cution before Congress was the fact that the Postmaster General had not made a readjustment, and that this court had
decided in January, 1878, that the Court of Claims had no
jurisdiction to enter a judgment for any amount in favor of
such claimants until after the Postmaster General had readjusted the salaries.
By an act approved March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22 Stat. 487, it
was provided:
"That the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to readjust the salaries of all. postmasters
and late postmasters of the third, fourth and fifth classes,
under the classification provided for in the act of July first,
eighteen hundred and sixty-four, whose salaries have not heretofore been readjusted under the terms of section eight of the
act of June twelfth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, who made
sworn returns of receipts and business for readjustment of salary to the Postmaster General, the First Assistant Postmaster
General or the Third Assistant Postmaster General, or who
made quarterly returns in conformity to the then existing
laws and regulations, showing that the salary allowed was ten
per centum less than it would have been upon the basis of commissions under the act of June twelfth, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six, and to date from the beginning of the quarter succeeding that in which such sworn returns of receipts and business or quarterly returns were made: Provided, That every
readjustment of salary under this act shall be upon a written
application signed by the postmaster or late postmaster or
legal representative entitled to said readjustment; and that
each payment shall be by warrant or check on the Treasurer
or some Assistant Treasurer of the United States, made payable to the order of said applicant, and forwarded, by mail, to
him at the post office within whose delivery he resides, and
which address shall be set forth in the application above provided for."
Except as to one or two immaterial verbal alterations,
this act of 1883 was similar to House bill 3981, mentioned
in the contract between complainant and defendant, and
which failed to pass, January 17, 1881, except that the-House

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

bill did not embody the proviso found at the end of the act
of 1883.
In making up the list of 7500 cases referred to, Spalding
had construed .the act of 1866 -as
he subsequently did the
act of -1883- as entitling the claimants embraced in said list
to a sum equal to the difference between the amount of any
salary which, during a particular term, they bad received,
and the sum which they would have received, had they been
paid commissions on the business done in the office at the
rate prescribed by the act of 1854.
The Postmaster General, in May, 1883-and his opinion was concurred in by the
Attorney General in February, 1884-construed the act of
1883 in connection with the act of 1866 in a different manner. It is unnecessary for the purpose of this opinion to
state or discuss the particulars in which the construction of
the Postmaster General differed from that adopted by Spalding, or to indicate in any way which construction was correct.
It is unquestioned, however, that the operation of the construction by the Postmaster General was that many of the persons
whose claims were embraced in the list of 7500 cases referred
to in the contract of June 3, 1880, were excluded from receiving any additional pay, and that rights arose in favor of others
who were not supposed by Spalding to have claims at the time
he prepared the list. Mason asserted a right to participate
not only in the fees collected from the claims embraced in the
list of 7500, but also in all other claims obtained by Spalding
after the passage of the act of 1883. The general term, however, decided adversely to the contention of the complainant,
and held that his share in fees was limited to cases embraced
in the list of 7500, upon which claims the court held that the
contract between complainant and defendant was based. In
that construction complainant has acquiesced.
Assignments numbers one to six read as follows:
"1st. The court erred in allowing to the complainant an
interest in all or any of the claims embraced in a list of
7500 claims mentioned in the answer of defendant.
"2d. The court erred in holding that the claims contemplated by the parties when they executed the contract of

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

June 3, 1880, were of such a nature that they could be
regarded for the purpose of giving the complainant an interest therein, as the same claims that were actually prosecuted
and collected under the act of 1883 and August 4, 1886.
"3d. The court erred in allowing the complainant $9972.88
as his share of fees collected by the defendant on claims paid
at various dates between October 1, 1886, and May 1, 1889,
as all of said fees were collected upon claims allowed and paid
neither under authority of section 8 of the act of June 12,
1866, or under authority of the act of March 3, 1883, but
under the sole authority contained in the act of August 4,
1886, 24, Stat. 308.
"4th. The court erred in not holding that the contract of
June 3, 1880, became of no effect by the failure of passage of
the bill in Congress mentioned therein, and in not holding
that thereupon a new contract was made which became of no
effect in charging the defendant with any liability thereunder
by reason of the failure of the complainant to perform the
same on his part, and by the putting an end thereto by the
act of the defendant.
"5th. The court erred in holding that the complainant was
entitled to one fourth of all fees which have been collected
out of the said list of 7500 claims which were procured subsequently to January 17, 1881.
"6th. The court erred in holding that the complainant was
entitled to one fourth of all fees which had been collected out
of the list of 7500 claims which were procured subsequently to
March 3, 1883."
As before stated, no appeal was taken by the defendant to
the general term from the interlocutory decree at the special
term fixing the principles upon which the account should be
taken. At the hearing in general term he seems to have
acquiesced in the view that the complainant was entitled to
an account as to 4208 cases admitted in the answer to have
been received by Spaulding for prosecution, and to have been
embraced in his list of 7500 cases, from which he received
fees, and concerning which he offered to account. On the
hearing before the auditor no exception was taken to the
VOL. CLXI--25

OCTOBER

Ek f, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

admission of evidence as to the fees calculated upon claims
embraced in the list of 7500 cases except as to cases which
were sent to him for prosecution by attorneys. And although
the auditor reported that the "amount of fees received by
him in the cases included in the order of reference" was the
sum of $16,339.11, no exception was taken by Spalding to
such finding.
It is insisted now, however, that a proper construction of
the contract excludes the complainant from any share whatever in the fees collected upon the claims embraced in the list
of 7500 cases. This is asserted, although the claimants had
valid claims against the government under the act of 1866,
either upon the theory which Spalding believed to be correct
according to his construction of the act, or upon the theory
actually put into practice by the Postmaster General under
his construction of that act in connection with the act of
1883. The contract, it is contended, contemplated that a
recovery by the claimants should be had upon the precise
theory which Spalding and the complainant entertained
when the contract of June 3, 1880, was made. We do not
adopt such a narrow view of the terms of the contract
between the parties in the absence of clear and unequivocal language warranting it. This construction imports that
Mason took the hazard, not of Spalding's ability to collect
from the government for the claimants he represented, but
the hazard of the government adopting and putting in practice Spalding's theory as to the exact status of the claimants
under the act of 1866. If the claim of counsel is well founded,
then had the House bill referred to in the contract, and which,
as has been shown, was practically identical with the subsequent act of 1883, become a law, a construction of that
act similar to that adopted by the Postmaster General with
reference to the act of 1883 would have defeated all Mason's
rights under the contract. But, in consideration of the payment by Mason of twenty-five hundred dollars, Spalding
agreed to "prosecute to collection" the "claims" then in
hand and others expected to be secured of "postmasters and
late postmasters for adjustment of their salaries, in conformity

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

to section 8 of the act of June 12, 1866." There was no qualification that the collection should be according to a particular
theory as to the amount which ought to be recovered, but the
plain import was that whatever was due by the general government to the claimants under the provisions of that act was to
be collected. Whether we look at the acts of 1866 and 1883,
or the later act of 1886, which merely approved the form of
readjustment which had been theretofore pursued by the Postmaster General under the act of 1883, and directed that mode
of adjustment to be continued in the settlement of further
claims under the act of 1866, it is clear that -whatever was
allowed and paid to claimants was acquired by virtue of the
provisions of the act of 1866. We therefore find assignments
one and two to be without merit.
The objection covered by assignment three is also made for
the first time in this court. No exception of this character
was taken to the findings of the auditor. It appears to have
been an afterthought. The point that payments subsequent
to October 1, 1886, were made solely under the authority of
the act of August 4, 1886, is clearly not well taken, for that
act did not originate rights against the government, but simply
regulated the mode of adjusting rights which had vested under
the act of 1866, pursuant to the remedy afforded by the act of
1883. We have looked in vain through the carefully prepared
answer of the defendant, himself an attorney, for any suggestion that the act of August 4, 1886, in any way injuriously
affected the rights of complainant, though an intimation to
that effect is contained in one or more letters from Spalding
to Mason written after August 9, 1887. All through the
answer it is admitted that the remedy by which Spalding
made his collections was provided by the act of 1883. Further, the table showing the dates from which the auditor
found the interest should be calculated, does not justify the
assumption of counsel that any part of the $9972.88 was allowed complainant, as his share of fees collected by defendant
on claims paid at various times between October 1, 1886, and
IMay 1, 1889. The table does not indicate when the "1claims"
were either "allowed" or "paid," and as the fees were col-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lected from claimants after they had received the full amount
of their claims, it may well be that the entire sum had been
allowed and paid by the government prior to October 1, 1886.
Some of the observations heretofore made are applicable to
the fourth assignment of error. The terms of the contract
will not justify the construction that the rights of complainant
were dependent upon the successful passage of the bills then
pending in Congress. As to the alleged oral contract set up
in the answer as having been entered into on the day of the
failure of the passage of the House bill, to wit, January 17,
1881, aside from the fact that no consideration appears therefor, the making of the same was flatly denied by complainant,
and the auditor found that no such contract was entered into.
We not only cannot say that the finding of the auditor, sustained by both the special and general terms of the Supreme
Court of the District, is obviously wrong, but we think, on the
contrary, that it was clearly warranted by the evidence. A
circumstance which would be of great weight in inducing us
to reach this conclusion, were it necessary for us to carefully
weigh the evidence, is the fact that at the time of the failure
of the bill in question five hundred dollars was still due from
Mason to defendant under the contract of June 3, 1880, and
that sum was subsequently paid to Spalding, and the payment
endorsed upon the contract, and there 'was no indorsement of
a modification in any respect of the terms of that contract.
What we have said with reference to the fourth assignment,
disposes of the fifth.
The sixth assignment of error needs but little consideration.
It was provided in the contract of June 3, 1880, as follows:
"The said Harvey Spalding agrees and binds himself to
obtain all the claims of the class named he can and to make
contracts for fees equal to twenty-five per cent of the collections and to subject the whole to be shared together with
those in hand by said George Mason for the consideration
herein specified."
The House bill 3981, referred to in the contract between
the parties as having been favorably reported by the proper
committee, was, as we have shown, practically identical with

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

the subsequent act of 1883, the only material difference being
that the proviso contained in the act of 1883 was not in the
House bill. If we suppose that the House bill in question
had been amended by adding a similar proviso, and, as thus
amended, became a law, it could not reasonably be contended
that Mason would not have had a right to share in any fees
collected upon claims embraced in the list of 7500 cases, which
Spalding had procured for collection subsequent to the passage
of the bill. If such would not have been the effect had the
House bill passed with that proviso, no reason is apparent why
a contrary effect should be claimed for the act of 1883. The
assignment is not tenable.
The seventh assignment reads as follows:
"7th. The court erred in allowing complainant an interest
in fees in claims registered in the same book as the 7500
claims, but inserted at a different time, and designated by half
numbers."
This is a reiteration of the second exception to the auditor's
report.
The list of 7500 cases which the evidence shows Spalding
had collected in books and upon slips at the time of the making of the contract was supposed and was intended to embrace
all persons entitled to $25 and over, by virtue of section 8 of
the act of 1866, as construed by Spalding. His counsel does
not argue that the half numbered claims held by the auditor
to constitute part of the list of 7500 cases were not embraced
in the character of claims designed to be covered by said list.
We adopt the reasoning by which the auditor reached a
decision allowing complainant a share in the fees derived from
these half numbered claims. He said:
"In the examination of the defendant's books containing a
list of the claims which are the subject of this account there
appeared to have been entered claims described in the testimony as half numbers, and the fees received in these cases are
not included in the statements of the defendant above referred
to. These claims are enumerated in another paper marked
'Defendant's Schedule B.'
"The defendant contends (see his brief) that these claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

do not belong on the Mason list; they were subsequently
entered there in error, and that they are not covered by the
decree.
"The order of reference directs an accounting as to the
claims contained 'in a list of about 7500 cases mentioned in
the defendant's answer.' No list was filed with the answer,
nor has any list been produced in the progress of the cause
other than the schedules. made by the defendant for the
purposes of this reference and the books in which these half
numbers appear. It is clear, therefore, that the court in making the decree had no such list before it and could not intend
to restrict the accounting to any particular claim by names or
numbers. Indeed, the whole case shows the intention of the
court to have been to divide the cases as to which the bill
sought an accounting into two classes, the dividing line being
the change of construction by the government officers of the
law relating to these claims.
"So far as appears here, these half numbered cases are of
the same class as the others on the Mason list, and are, therefore, included in the contract of sale, and not excluded by the
decree.
"The evidence as to the time of their entry on the list and
the attempted withdrawal of them from it is not at all clear.
"These fees aggregate the sum of $1678.48."
The eighth and ninth assignments of error read as follows:
"8th. The court erred in holding that the complainant was
not chargeable with any part of the expense of prpcuring
claims obtained by-the defendant subsequent to January 17,
1871.
"9th. The court erred in holding that the complainant was
not chargeable with any part"of the expenses of prosecuting
claims obtained by the defendant." It was expressly stipulated in the contract of June 3, 1880,
that the one fourth interest of Mason should be "free from
all charges of expenses in prosecuting said claims -to collection."
These assignments, therefore, depend for their support upon
the claim that on the 17th of January, 1881, a new contract

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

was entered into between complainant and defendant, under
the terms of which Mason agreed to share in all future expenses connected with the business. Our concurrence with
the holding of the master that no such agreement was entered into leads us to overrule these assignments.
The tenth and eleventh assignments of error read as follows:
"10th. The court erred in holding that the complainant
was not chargeable with any part of the expenses of securing
and collecting fees which were incurred in consequence of the
proviso of the act of March 3, 1883, and of a circular issued
by the Postmaster General to make difficult the collection of
the fees.
'"11th. The court erred in not allowing the defendant
twenty per cent or some per cent or gross amount for expenses in collecting fees."
In his original answer, defendant, after averring the amount
of fees collected upon the 4208, claims concerning which he
submitted to an account, said, "that owing to the change
made by the act of 1883 in the previous method of collecting'
fees, as well as to certain circulars thereunder issued by the
Postmaster General, he has been put to an expense of about
ten per cent to collect such fees after the allowances had been
made and in respect of which they were due." This refers to
the requirement by Congress that the claims under the act,
when allowed, should be paid to the claimants directly, and
not to attorneys.
.In his additional answer Spalding admitted that he had
received for collection 24,259 claims, and averred that the
expenditures incurred and paid for clerk hire, printing, office
rent, postage, discounts, interest, etc., in prosecuting said claims
from January 17, 1881, to December 31, 1887, aggregated
$64,5417.75, but that such expenditures did not include the ten
per cent expended as in the original answer stated to collect
fees that had been earned. It thus appears that before the
taking of testimony the expenses of the prosecution of the
claims was sworn to by the defendant as being distinct and
separate from the expense of collecting fees.
The -auditor allowed all actual, direct and necessary expenses

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in the collection of fees, such as bank charges, express charges,
and attorney's fees, the total amount of such expenses having
been deducted from the gross fee charged by Spalding under
the contract with claimants, the net sum received by Spalding being returned as the gross amount of fees which he had
collected:
Chauging, however, the position taken in his sworn answer,
the defendant demanded at the auditor's hands an allowance
for expenses in collecting fees, for office rent, clerk hire, postage, stationery, printing, etc., from 1883 to 1887, to an amount
exceeding more than one half the total expenditures of that
character stated in Spalding's answer to have been by him
incurred in the prosecution of the entire business of over
twenty-four thousand claims. Mason had an interest in but
4208 of these, and 427 of that number were received from
two attorneys, and presumably did not require special effort
in each of the cases to collect Spalding's proportion of the fees.
The claims asserted were not itemized but were made in bulk
sums, and the amounts were mere estimates. No receipts or
vouchers were produced by defendant, nor was any book produced containing itemized statements whereby the propriety
or correctness of the expenditures might have been determined or tested. Though no fees were collected during the
year 1883, and the first five months of 1884, one half of the
total expenses of that period are charged as expenses for collection of fees.
The defendant testified that the gross amount of fees collected on all claims was $165,241.80. He claimed that in
order to effect collections he had expended for Clerk hire .......................
$15,608 24
Office rent .......................
22,540 00
Postage .........................
6,375 00
Stationery, printing, etc ............
5,959 18
Miscellaneous expenses ............
2,565 78
Total ......................
$33,048 20
The alleged expenses thus amounted to exactly 20 per cent

SPALDING v. 11[ASON.

393

Opinion-of the Court.

of the gross amount of fees collected, whereas the answer
claimed but ten per cent.
The unreliable character of the testimony as to these items of
expenditure is illustrated by counsel for appellee in his brief.
On cross-examination of Mr. Spalding as to an expense account
filed May 22, 1889, he testified that he had disbursed the following amounts:

Statement made at session May 22, 1889.
Half of postage from March 3, 1883, to January 1,
1884 .....................................
$750 00
Half of postage in 1884 .........................
1,000 00
cc
cc
"1 1885 .........................
,OOQ0 0
"cc
1886 .........................
1,500 00
W hole of "
" 1887 .........................
750 00
1888 ....
...................
1,000 00
5 months, 1889 ...................
375 00
Add miscellaneous expenses .....................
2,565 78
$8,940 78
When pressed to give the items of the miscellaneous expenditures stated- as $2565.78, defendant promised a full
statement at the next session, but instead of making such
explanation, he filed a statement showing miscellaneous expenditures reduced to $143.50, but the postage items increased proportionately, as shown in the following statement:
Statement made at session June 5, 1889.
Half of postage from March 3, 1883, to January
1, 1884 ...................................
Half of poitage in 1884 .......................
c "
1885 .......................
1886 .......................
Whole
"
" 1887 ......................
"C
"
" 1888 .......................
cc
" 5 months, 1889 ..................
Total ..................................

$865
730
1,600
2,920
1,300
1,240
518

00
00
00
00
00
00
50

$9,173 50

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the. Court.

The contract did not contemplate a necessity for expenditures in connection With the collection of fees, as, on June 3,
1880, it was believed that drafts for the amounts of the difference claimed would be delivered to Spalding as attorney for
the claimants, and that he would make his deduction of fees
therefrom.
For this reason, the auditor reached the conclusion that
Mason's interest should be charged with its just share of expenses necessary and reasonably incurred in securing and
realizing the fees of which he was to receive a share with the
qualification that perhaps before any considerable amount of
such expenses had been incurred, the complainant should
have been notified. Complainant does not find fault with
the deductions actually allowed. Concerning, however, the
claim for an allowance of twenty per cent upon Mason's
share of fees, as an expense for collection, the auditor said:
"Some of these expenses were incurred in unsuccessful endeavors to secure fees, and before his interest in fees collected
can be charged with expenses connected with fees not collected it should appear that he assented to such expenditures,
or at least had knowledge of them. Neither of these conditions are shown to exist here.
"The defendant kept no current account of these expenditures even in gross and is now compelled to estimate some of
them upon a basis of unreliable data. He made no attempt
to keep any separate account of those incurred in securing the
Mason fees as distinguished from his other business, as he
should have done if he intended to claim allowance for them
in his settlement with the complainant.
"Nor is the evidence before me sufficient to establish the
necessity for or reasonable characterof these expenses."
We find no obvious error in this conclusion. Where an allowance is asked which is clearly excessive and exorbitant, it
is for the party claiming to be entitled to establish just what
is the amount he is properly entitled to, and it is not made
the duty of the court or its officers to arbitrarily guess at
the amount.
•The twelfth assignment alleges error in the allowance by

SPALDING v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

the general term, in its final decree, of interest upon the entire principal sum found due from August 9, 1887.
The contract of June 3, 1880, provided that "all the fees
collected by the said Spalding shall be accounted for and settlements shall be made from time to time as .collections are
made, and the divisions thereof shall be made, three fourths
going to said Spalding and one fourth to said Mason."
The auditor made monthly rests in the collection of fees,
and allowed interest on all collections during a particular
month from the first day of the succeeding month. The
special term entered a decree in accordance with that method.
The general term, -however, sustained the exception to the
auditor's allowance of interest, and modified the decree, of
the special term in that particular by allowing intereit on
the entire principal sum found due by the auditor from the
time when complainant made his demand upon Spalding for
an account as to the fees collected.
Spalding's failure, prior to August 9, 1887, to render an
account and make settlements for collections of fees, is shown
by the evidence of Mason to have been acquiesced in by him.
The general term, therefore, correctly held that interest should
run only from the date when the demand for an accounting
was made, and the right of complainant thereto was denied.
Appellant strenuously insists that no interest whatever
should be allowed. The claim is without merit. Defendant
had no reasonable ground for refusing to account, at least as to
the fees earned upon the claims embraced in the list of 7500
cases. To that extent he was clearly indebted to Mason, less
the amount of any payments which he had made. He had
in his possession and control the means of determining the
amount of such indebtedness, and as to an indebtedness which
he ought not to have disputed he should have ascertained the
amount due and. tendered it without prejudice to a dispute
concerning other items. Interest is allowed both at law
and equity upon money due. As said by this court in Cwrti&
v. Innerarity,6 How. 146, 154, considering and overruling an
exception to an allowance of interest from the time certain
payments had become due:

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

"It is a dictate of natural justice, -and the law of every
civilized country, that a man is bound in equity, not only to
perform his engagements, but also to repair all the damages
.that accrue naturally from their breach.

.

.

.

Every one

who contracts to pay money on a certain day knows that, if
he fails to fulfil his contract, he must pay the established rate
of interest as damages for his non-performance. Hence it
may correctly be said that such is the implied contract of
the parties."
It is no hardship for one who has had the use of money
owing to another to be required to pay interest thereon from
the time when the payment should have been made. Crescent
Xfining Co. v. Vasatc4 Miining Co., 151 U. S. '317,'323.
The circumstance that the complainant may have considered
himself entitled to an account and to receive a greater sum than
was actually found to be due, does not affect complainant's
right to the interest upon what was really due. 'Sturm v.
Boker, 150U.S. 312, 31. In the case just cited, while the
right to an account was sustained, it was held that a portion
of the matters claimed by complainant could not be allowed
on a final accounting, but it was directed that the account
should be stated up to the filing of the bill, and that any
balance shown in favor of either side should bear interest
from that date.
The general term, however, erred in its direction on the
subject of interest. It overlooked the fact that some of the
fees for which a recovery was allowed, amounting to $4:735.076,
were collected after August, 1887. The dates of the collections
made after that date are shown by the record, and an allowance of an average of interest will correct the error.
This completes our consideration of the specific assignments
of error. The general assignment that the court erred in not
dismissing the bill of complaint with costs is shown to be without merit by what we have already stated.
The error in respect to interest necessitates a modification of
the decree under review. As it is a matter, however, of mere
interest, not affecting the real merits of the controversy, and
which we think would have been corrected by the lower court,

