MARKS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

of actual hostilities.

Nor is this a matter in which the gov-

ernment is uninterested. In case of an award by the Court of
Claims the United States become in fact, if not in form, the
primary and a solvent judgment debtor. The recourse provided over against the Indian tribe,. while it may be certain as
to amount, is uncertain as to collection, and before any judgment should be rendered binding the United States it is familiar and settled law that the statute claimed to justify such
judgment should be clear and not open to debate.
It follows, therefore, that though under the terms of the
second jurisdictional clause the Court of Claims had jurisdiction over this claim, yet the case having been reopened by the
claimant the Court of Claims properly proceeded to inquire
into its merits, and correctly found that there was no law or
treaty upon which to base a liability of either the United
States or the Indians.
The judgment is
________Affirmed.

MARKS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 552. Argued November 12, 1895. -Deided

March 2, 1896.

When a petition filed in the Court of Claims alleges that a depredation was
committed by an Indian or Indians belonging to a tribe in amity with the
United States, it becomes the duty of that court to inquire as to the truth
of that allegation, and its truth is not determined by the mere existence
of a treaty between the United States and the tribe, or by the fact that
such treaty has never been formally abrogated by a declaration of war
on the part of either, but the inquiry is whether, as a matter of fact, the
tribe was at the time, as a tribe, in a state of actual peace with the United
States: and if it appears that the depredation was committed by a single
individual, or a few individuals without the consent and against the
knowledge of the tribe, the court may proceed to investigate the amount
of the loss, and render judgment therefor; but if, on the other hand, the
tribe, as a tribe, was engaged in actual hostilities with the United States,
the judgment of the Court of Claims must be that the allegation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Appellants.
petition is not sustained, and that the claim is not one within its province to adjudicate.
Johnson v. United States, 160 U. S. 546, affirmed to the point that, by clause
2 of section 1 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851, the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims was limited to claims which, on March 3,
1885, had either been examined and allowed by the Department of the
Interior, or were then pending therein for examination.

ON July 8, 1891, appellants, as claimants, filed their petition
in the Court of Claims under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 538,
26 Stat. 851, to recover the sum of eleven thousand eight hundred dollars, the value of certain personal property charged
to have been taken and destroyed by the Bannock and liute
Indians during the month of June, 1878, in Happy Valley, in
the State of Oregon. Subsequently they filed an amended
petition. In that it was alleged that the Bannock and the
Piute Indians were "in amity with the United States" at the
time of the taking and destruction of the property; that they
were "chargeable for said depredation and under an obligation to pay for the same by reason of the provisions of the
treaty of July 3, 1868, between the United States and the
Shoshone (Eastern Band) and the Bannock tribe of Indians;"
and further, that petitioners "presented their said claim to the
Hon. Commissioner of Indian Affairs, No. 4915, July 27, 1888,
for payment, but the same has not been returned or paid for."
A traverse having been filed by the government, the case was
submitted to the court, which, on February 27, 1893, made a
finding of facts, and thereon entered judgment dismissing the
petition. 28 C. C1. 147. The seventh finding of fact was as

follows:
"1From these facts, the court finds the ultimate fact, so far
as it is a question of fact, that the tribes or bands of Piute
and Bannock Indians were not in amity with the United
States at the time the depredations complained of were
committed."
From the judgment thus entered in favor of the defendants
the claimants duly appealed to this court.
Mr. A. I. Garland and -Mr. Charles A. KEeigwin for appellants. .Mr,
William B. Matthews and Xr. 1. C. Garlandwere
on their brief.

MARKS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

.r. Assistant Attorney General Howry for appellees.
MR.

JusTICE

BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case, like that of Johnson v. United States, 160 U. S.
546, recently decided, involves a construction of the Indian
Depredation Act of March 3, 1891. The particular language
to be considered is that found in the first clause of the act,
which grants to the Court of Claims jurisdiction over claims
for property "destroyed by Indians belonging to any band,
tribe, or nation, in amity with the United States." The seventh finding negatives the existence of amity, and if this
stood alone there would be no room for discussion. But, as
appears from its terms, it is based upon a series of facts stated
in detail in prior findings, and is also to be taken in connection with the treaty entered into between the United States
and the Bannock tribe of Indians of July 3, 1868, 15 Stat.
673, which contains, among other provisions, the following:
"If bad men among the Indians shall commit a wrong or
depredation upon the person or property of any one, white,
black or Indian, subject to the auth6rity of the United States,
and at peace therewith, the Indians herein named solemnly
agree that they will, on proof made to their agent and notice
by him, deliver up the wrongdoer to the United States, to
be tried and punished according to its laws; and in case they
wilfully refuse so to do, the person injured shall be reimbursed
for his loss from the annuities or other moneys due or to
become due to them under this or other treaties made with
the United States. And the President, on advising with the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, shall prescribe such rules and
regulations for ascertaining damages under the provisions of
this article as in his judgment may be proper. But no such
damages shall be adjusted and paid until thoroughly examined
and passed upon by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and
no one sustaining loss while violating or because of his violating the provisions of this treaty or the laws of the United
States shall be reimbursed therefor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Turning to the prior findings, it is stated in the second that
"the Bannock and Piute Indians made a raid" in which the
property in controversy was destroyed, and also that "the
Indians numbered between five hundred and six hundred, and
were in a body or band moving in concert, having the form
of an Indian military organization." Other findings (which
consist largely of telegrams and reports from various officers
of the army and other officials, narrating at length a series of
military operations during the years 1877 and 1878, which
documents are by section 4 of the act of 1891 made competent
evidence, and which are too voluminous to be copied into this
opinion) show that what was done by the Indians was done
by them as tribes, and not by a single individual, or a few in
opposition to the will of the tribes. They show that these
Indians were actually engaged in hostility, and that they were
finally conquered and captured only by the milit@ary forces of
the United States. Indeed, counsel for the claimants practically admit this, for in their brief it is stated "that at various
times in the spring of 1878 small bands left the reservation
for the sake of obtaining food, until finally the majority of
the tribe were absent; that in the month of June, 1878, the
absentees began killing white people, after which date the
several bodies of Indians carried on a raid over a large
area in Idaho and Oregon, which was finally checked by the
efforts of troops of the United States; that the troops were
more or less actively engaged in suppressing the outbreak
until the latter part of August, 1878; and that the Indians
were captured and returned to their reservation shortly after
the last-named date."
Their contention is rather that actual hostilities may exist
without war between two nations; that war is a political
status, and to be determined by the political department of
the government, by matter of record, and never by oral testimony ; that it is not pretended that there was ever any formal
declaration of war by either the Bannock tribe of Indians or
the United States government; that, therefore, the political
relations established by the treaty of 1868 continued during
all these hostilities, and the tribe was "in amity with the

MARKS 9). UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

United States;" and further, that subject and dependent
people, like the Bannock Indians, are not capable of making
war with the United States. In support of this contention is
cited a number of declarations of publicists and decisions of
courts, such as the following from Chancellor Kent: "But,
though a solemn declaration, or previous notice to the enemy,
be now laid aside, it is essential that some formal public act,
proceeding directly from the competent source, should announce to the people at home their new relations and duties
growing out of a state of war, and which should equally
apprise neutral nations of the fact, to enable them to conform
their conduct to the rights belonging to the new state of things.
War, says Vattel, is at present published and declared by
manifestoes. Such an official act operates from its date to
legalize all hostile acts, in like manner as a treaty of peace
operates from its date to annul them. As war cannot lawfully be commenced on the part of the United States without
an act of Congress, such an act is, of course, a formal official
notice to all the world, and equivalent to the most solemn
declaration."
1 BI. Com. 55. And this from People v.
XcLeod, 1 Hill, 377, 407: "A state of peace and the continuance of treaties must be presumed by all the courts of justice
till the contrary be shown; and this is resuytioJune et de
jure until the national power of the country in which such
courts sit officially declares the contrary."
Without questioning these declarations and decisions as
applied to the relations between independent nations, we think
they avail but little in the solution of the question here presented. That question is, what limitation did Congress intend
by the words "in amity with the United States." The word
"amity" is not a technical term. It is a word of common
use; and such words when found in a statute must be given
their ordinary meaning unless there be something in the context which compels a narrower or a different scope. Webster
defines it "friendship, in a general sense, between individual,
societies, or nations; harmony; good understanding; as, a
treaty of amity and commerce." The last part of this definition shows that the phrase "in amity" is not the equivalent

OCTOBER TERINM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of "under treaty." A "treaty" implies political relations;
"amity" signifies friendship, actual peace.
The phrase "in amity with the United States" is one of
frequent use in the legislation of Congress in reference to
Indians. In the early act of May 19, 1796, c. 30, 1 Stat. 469,
it appears twice, the sixth section reading as follows:
"That if any such citizen, or other person, shall go into any
town, settlement or territory belonging to any nation or tribe
of Indians, and shall there commit murder, by killing an Indian or Indians, belonging to any nation or tribe of Indians
in amity with the United States, such offender, on being
thereof convicted, shall suffer death."
It is found again in the act of March 3, 1799, 1 Stat.
747; that of March 30, 1802, c. 13, 2 Stat. 139, 143; June
.30, 1834, c. 160, 4 Stat. 728, 731, and elsewhere; appearing in
the statutes, as stated by counsel, some fifty or sixty times.
The frequent use of this phrase in connection with the same
subject-matter during all the legislative history of this country
suggests, of course, a single and settled meaning. And, as
said by Nott, J., in Love v. United States, 29 0. 01. 332, 340:
1'What did it mean, in 1796, when the law declared it to be
murder to kill an Indian of a tribe ' in amity with the United
States?'" If that particular section had been in force during these hostilities it would not seriously be contended that
the killing of a hostile Bannock by one of the soldiers of our
army, even if done within the limits of the Bannock reservation, would have been murder, on the ground that the Bannock
tribe was still under treaty relations, and, therefore, in amity
with the government.
Further, there are obvious reasons why Congress did not
use this phrase in, any different sense than as theretofore used.
At the time of the passage of the act, nearly every tribe and
band of Indians within the territorial limits of the United
States was under some treaty relations with the government.
It is said by counsel that there appear in the statutes, prior to
the' act of March 3, 1871, c. 120, 16 Stat. 5,4, 566, declaring
agaihst further treaties, 666 treaties with Indian tribes. And
it is a matter of history that all along our western frontier

MARKS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

there has been a succession of Indian wars, with great destruction of life and property, and yet seldom has there been
a formal declaration of war on the part of either the government or the Indians. If the contention of the claimants were
sustained, it would be practically tantamount to holding that
by this language Congress had for the government assumed
responsibility for all depredations committed by Indians domiciled within the territorial limits of the United States, subsequently at least to the year 1865, and given to the Court of
Claims jurisdiction to determine and finally adjudicate the
amount thereof.
If such had been its intent, it seems as though it would
have expressed itself in different language, and not by a
phrase so suggestive, from past use, of a more limited purpose.
Again, as often affirmed in the decisions of this court, the
Indians are, in a certain sense, the wards of the United States,
and the legislation of Congress is to be interpreted as intended
for their benefit. The act of 1891 contemplates that in the
same suit the tribe by whom, or members of whom, the depredation is charged to have been committed, may be made
a party defendant. In section 5 it is provided that the court,
after determining the value of the property, "shall render
judgment in favor of the claimant or claimants against the
United States, and against the tribe of Indians committing
the wrong, when such can be identified." Section 6 reads
as follows :
"The amount of any judgment so rendered against any
tribe of Indians shall be charged against the tribe by which,
or by members of which, the court shall find that the depredation was committed, and shall be deducted and paid in the
following manner: First, from annuities due said tribe from
the United States; second, if no annuities are due or available, then from any other funds due said tribe from the United
States, arising from the sale of their lands or otherwise;
third, if no such funds are due or available, then from any
appropriation for the benefit of said tribe other than appropriations for their current and necessary support, subsistence
and education; and, fourth, if no such annuity, fund or appro-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

priation is due or available, then the amount of the judgment
shall be paid from the Treasury of the United States: Provided, That any amount so paid frorfl the Treasury of the
United States shall remain a charge against such tribe, and
shall be deducted from any annuity, fund or appropriation
hereinbefore designated which may hereafter become due
from the United States to such tribe."
If this act requires the construction claimed, it is obvious to
any one familiar with the history of the Indian, and even independently of what is said by counsel to be the record as to
the multitude and amount of the claims presented, that the
outcome would be, as to most if not of all of these tribes, that
every dollar of annuity, if not every dollar of fund, would be
,swept away in satisfaction of these claims. We do not think
this legislation is to be thus construed, and are of the opinion
that all that Congress intended was that when, as a matter
of fact, a tribe was in the relation of actual peace with the
United States, and by some individual, or individuals, without
the consent or approval of the tribe, a depredation was committed upon the property of citizens of the United States,
.such depredation might be investigated, and the amount of
the loss determined and adjudicated by the Court of Claims.
This is in harmony with the language of many of the treaties
between the United States and the Indians, and, among
others, that of the treaty between the United States and the
Bannock tribe, heretofore quoted, which reads: "If bad men
among the Indians shall commit a wrong or depredation," etc.
In the light of this conclusion, it may be said that when
the petition filed in the Court of Claims alleges that a depredation was committed by an Indian or Indians belonging to a
tribe in amity with the United States, it becomes the duty of
that court to inquire as to the truth of that allegation, and its
truth is not determined by the mere existence of a treaty between the United States and the tribe, or the fact that such
treaty has never been formally abrogated by a declaration of
war on the part of either, but that. the inquiry is, whether as
a matter of fact, the tribe was at the time, as a tribe, in a
state of actual peace with the United States. If so, and the

MARKS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

depredation was committed by a single individual, or a few
individuals without the consent and against the knowledge
of the tribe, the court may proceed to investigate the amount
of the loss, and render judgment therefor. If, on the other
hand, the tribe, as a tribe, was engaged in actual hostilities
with the United States, the judgment of the Court of Claims
must be that the allegation of the petition is not sustained,
and that the claim is not one within its province to adjudicate. It is doubtless true that the existence of a treaty implies a state of peace, and, if no other evidence were produced,
the court might properly infer therefrom that the tribe was in
amity with the United States; but, after all, it is a question
of fact, to be determined by the testimony which may be
introduced. That question was investigated by the Court of
Claims in this case, and its conclusion, justified by the facts
as shown by the various reports and documents in evidence,
was undoubtedly correct. The Bannock tribe was not, at the
time of these depredations, in amity with the United States,
and, therefore, the Court of Claims properly refused to adjudicate upon the amount of the loss, or render judgment therefor
against the United States.
Neither does this case come within the second jurisdictional
clause of the act of 1891, for this was not a claim which had
been examined and allowed by the Interior Department, or
one which, on March 3, 1885, had been filed and was pending
in said department for examination. Johnson v. Unitd States,
160 U. S. 546. The conclusion reached in that case in reference to the scope of this second clause has been challenged,
and it has been said that such second clause should be construed in connection with this language in section 2: "No
claim shall be- excluded from the jurisdiction of the court because not heretofore presented to the Secretary of the Interior,
or other officer or department of the government;" and that,
so construed, neither the time nor the fact of filing in the Interior Department is material. No such construction can be
sustained. It would in effect make the statute read as granting jurisdiction over all cases which, on March 3, 1885, had
been examined and allowed by the Interior Department, and
voL. CLx-20

