OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

PH(ENIX FIRE AND MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY v. TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 269. Argued January 20, 21, 22, 1896. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

A state statute granting to a company incorporated by it "all the rights and
privileges" which had been granted by a previous statute of the State to
another corporation, does not confer upon the new company an exemption from taxation beyond a defined limit which was conferred upon the
other company by the act incorporating it.
The ruling of the highest court of a State, in a suit to recover taxes alleged
to be due, concerning the effect to be given to a former judgment of the
same court as to the liability of the same parties to pay similar taxes previously assessed, is not subject to review by this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. B. X. Estes for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. S. P. IFalker,(with whom was X'. F. T. Edmondson
on the brief,) for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill filed by the plaintiffs below in the Chancery
Court of Tennessee for Shelby County, in October, 1891, to
recover taxes alleged to be due from the corporation, plaintiff
in error, or its stockholders, to the city of Memphis for the
years 1888 to 1891, inclusive. The complainant's bill alleged
that neither the defendant company-nor its shareholders had
any immunity from taxation, and that if any such immunity
existed it could not operate to protect both the shareholders
and the capital stock. Judgment was accordingly prayed in
the alternative against the corporation or the stockholders according as the taxes might be held to have been laid upon
one or the other. A demurrer was interposed to the bill,
Which was sustained in the court below, but upon appeal to

PH(ENIX INSURANCE

CO. v. TENNESSEE.

175

Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court, that judgment was reversed. .Mem s v.
Pkermix Inwurance Co., 7 Pickle, 566. The latter court held
that the charter of the company contained no immunity from
taxation, and that both its shares of stock and capital stock
were subject to the taxing power of the State and municipality.
The case was thereupon remanded to the court below for further proceedings. It having been determined by the Supreme
Court that the complainant upon the allegatiuns of the bill
was entitled to a discovery of the names and residences of
the stockholders, a stipulation was entered into between the
parties to avoid the necessity of the discovery, by which it
was agreed that the corporation would assume any liability
that might be established against the stockholders, and that
a decree might be entered accordingly, and that the defendant Johnson should be made a defendant in his capacity of a
stockholder and as the representative of all the others.
By its answer the defendant company claimed iamunity
from taxation. both for itself and its shareholders, and also
set up a plea of res judicata, and alleged various objections
to the validity of the several assessments upon which complainant claimed taxes due to the State. The case was duly
tried, and judgment for the complainant was rendered by
the trial court, in which it was adjudged that by the charter
neither the defendant company nor its shares of stock had any
immunity from taxation, and that both were, for the years
mentioned in the bill, subject to the taxing power of the
State. The court decided the Federal question made by the
defendants below against them, and adjudged that the state
tax laws set up in the record, under which the taxes were
levied, were not violative of the Constitution of the United
States, or void as claimed by the defendants. This judgment
was in substance affirmed by the Supreme .Court, and the defendants below sued out a writ of error, and the record is now
here for review.
The question first arising is as to the correctness of the
judgment holding that the plaintiffs in error were not entitled to any immunity from taxation either as to the capital
stock or the shares of stock in the hands of stockholders. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

following are the facts: The Bluff City Insurance Company
of Memphis was duly incorporated by an act of the legislature
of Tennessee, and by section ten of the act of incorporation it
was enacted "that said company shall pay to the State an
annual tax of one half of one per cent on each share of the
capital stock subscribed, which shall be-in lieu of all other
taxes." On the 20th day of March, 1858, the legislature of
Tennessee incorporated the De Soto Insurance Company, and
that charter was amended on the 30th of March, 1860, and by
section eleven of that act "all the rights, privileges and immunities" of the Bluff City Insurance Company were granted
to the. De Soto Insurance Company. On the 11th day of
March, 1867, the legislature incorporated the Washington
Fire and Marine Insurance Company of Memphis, Tennessee, and by that act "all the rights and privileges" (omitting
the word "immunities') of the De -Soto Insurance Company
of Memphis, Tennessee, granted to it in its charter or amendments were granted to the Washington Fire & Marine Insurance Company, above named, and by the act of the legislature,
approved March 28, 1881, the name of the Washington Fire
& Marine Insurance Company was changed to the Phoenix
Fire & Marine Insurance Company of Memphis, Tennessee,
being the plaintiffs in error. The act of incorporation and
the amendments thereto were duly accepted by plaintiff in
error and its stockholders, and since that time the business
of fire and marine insurance has been conducted by it in Memphis, under the last corporate name.
It will thus be seen that the Bluff City Insurance Company
was to pay to the State a certain annual tax on each share of
capital stock subscribed, which was declared to be in lieu of
all other taxes, and the question is now presented, whether by
virtue of these various statutes the plaintiff in error was
granted an immunity from taxation to the same extent as
that given to the Bluff City Insurance Company and to the
De Soto Insurance Company. Is immunity from taxation
granted to plaintiff in error under language which grants
"all the rights and privileges" of a company which has such
immunity? In statutes, as is sometimes the case in legal

PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO.

. TENNESSEE.

177

Opinion of the Court,

documents, more words are occasionally used than are necessary to convey the meaning of those who passed the statute
or executed the document, and it may happen that this very
excess of verbiage tends to confuse rather than to enlighten
one as to the meaning intended. The words "rights, privileges and immunities" when used in a 'statute of the kind
under consideration are certainly full and ample for thp purpose of granting an- exemption from taxation contained in the
first or original statute, and when in granting to still another
company'certain rights the word "immunities" is dropped, its
absence would seem and ought to have some special significance. In granting to the De Soto company "all the rights,
privileges and immunities" of the Bluff City company, all words
were used which could be regarded as necessary to carry the
exemption from taxation possessed by the Bluff City company, while in the next following grant, that of the charter
of the plaintiff in error, the word "immunities" is omitted.
Is there any meaning to be attached to that omission I And,
if so, whatI We think some meaning is to be attached to it.
The word "immunity" expresses more clearly and definitely
an intention to include therein an exemption from taxation
than does either of the other words. Exemption from taxation is more accurately described as an "immunity" than as a
privilege, although it is not to be denied that the latter word
may sometimes and under some circumstances include such
exemption. It must always be borne in mind in construing
language of this nature that the claim for exemption must be
made out wholly beyond doubt; for, as stated by Mr. Justice
Harlan, in Chicago, Burlington & KEansas City Railroadv.
Gufey, 120 U. S. 569, 575: "It is the settled doctrine of this
court that an immunity from taxation by a State will not be
recognized unless granted in terms too plain to be mistaken."
See also Wilmington & TWeldon Railroad v. Alsbrook, 146
U. S. 279. In leaving out a word which, if used, would be
regarded as specially and particularly including an exemption
from taxation granted to another company, it seems to us
that a very grave doubt is cast upon the title of plaintiff in
error to the exemption claimed, and in such case the existence
VOL. crxx-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of a well founded doubt is equivalent to a denial of the
claim.
The learned counsel for plaintiff in error have cited many
statutes of the State of Tennessee in which it is said the word
"immunities" is sometimes used where no exemption from
taxation was intended, and he quotes a section from one act,
(Acts 1866-'7, Private, section 49 of an act, page 155,) which
grants "all the powers, privileges and immunities" of another
company that had no exemption, and in another case there
was granted "all the rights, franchises and privileges" of a
railroad company which had an exemption from taxation.
Many other instances of a like nature are cited. The result
of it is to occasion great difficulty in determining what was
really intended by the legislature in these various acts. The
learned counsel for plaintiff in error also state that about the
time these charters in question were granted the legislature
customarily expressed the purpose to tax corporations when
no exemption was intended. The inference is sought to be
drawn in favor of exemption, if the legislature did not affirm
atively grant the right to tax. We cannot assent to any such
view, and we could come to no such conclusion from an examination of the general statutes cited by counsel. It is a complete overturning of the universal rule in regard to taxation.
The power and the right to tax are always presumed, and
the exemption is to be clearly granted. Mere silence is the
same as a denial of exemption.
We can see nothing in the "surrounding circumstances"
which counsel claim should influence our examination and
conclusion, as to the meaning of these statutes, that in any
way induces the belief that an exemption was plainly intended.
Our attention has not been called to circumstances which we
should regard as of that nature, nor is our judicial knowledge
of them sufficient in kind or degree to cause us to conclude
that this exemption was intended to be granted to plaintiff in
error. We do not find that at this time there was, as counsel
insist, any settled rule of the courts that the word privileges"
"
always embraced exemption from taxation, or that "rights
and privileges" and "privileges and immunities" were used

PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.

179

Opinion of the Court.

indiscriminately and interchangeably, and always included
such exemption. The different words above quoted were
undoubtedly used in different statutes, and sometimes it might
be insisted that one thing was meant and sometimes another,
but we cannot find that there was any well known and definite rule governing the courts of Tennessee at that time which
made the words "privileges " or "rights," when used in cases
of this nature, include, beyond any doubt and in all cases, an
exemption from taxation.
In Wilson v. Gaines, 9 Bax. 546, it was held by the Supreme
Court of Tennessee that as the State in its constitution (article 11, section 7, constitution 1834) used in the same connection all the words "rights," "privileges," immunities" and
"exemption," each of these words was to be given, in statutory interpretation, a meaning so limited as not to include
anything expressed by the others, and that when any one of
them is found in a statute the legislatur must be conclusively
presumed to have used it in its restricted sense. This decision
of the Tennessee court tends very strongly to the idea that
the words "immunity " or "exemption" would have been
required to secure the exemption to a company in a case like
this. It is true that this view was not assented to by this
court as being the correct one, Tennessee v. WTitwo'tA, 117
U. S. 139, 146, and it is simply cited for the purpose of showing what the Tennessee court did decide in regard to the
meaning of its own constitution in reference to this subject.
That the legislature was, about the time in question, freely
incorporating various companies and granting them exemption from taxation with coxisiderable liberality is not a sufficient
reason to induce this court to depart from the universal and
well established rule making a claim for exemption a matter to
be proved beyond all doubt. The circumstance which we regard as very significant and which has already been alluded
to, consists in the omission of the word "immunities" in the
grant to plaintiff in error. That omission we attach great
weight to, and the least that can be said of it is that it involves
the question in doubt.
It cannot be denied that the decisions of this court are

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

somewhat involved in relation to this question of exemption.
It is difficult-in some cases to distinguish the language used in
each so far that the different results arrived at by the court
can 'beseen to be founded upon a real difference in the meaning of -such language. The question has sometimes arisen
upon the consolidation of different companies, and sometimes
upon a sale'under a mortgage foreclosure. Among the former is the base of Keokuk & Western Railroadv. .Aissouri,
152 U. S. 301, where under the laws of Missouri (section 4 of
the act of March 2, 1869) there was a provision that the
consolidated companies should be "subject to all the liabilities
and bound by all the obligations of the companies within this
State" and "be entitled to the same franchises and privileges
under the'laws of this State, as if the consolidation had not
taken place." The question was said to admit of doubt,
whether under the rame "franchises and privileges" an
immunity from taxation passed to the new company. Various
cases are cited in the opinion, which was delivered by Mr.
Justice Brown, showing the grounds taken by this court in
such cases. In Chesapeake & Ohio Railway v. .Xiller, 114
U. S.176, (a foreclosure case,) it decided that an immunity
from taxation enjoyed by one railroad company did not pass
to the purchaser under the foreclosure of a mortgage, although the act provided that the. purchaser should forthwith
become a corporation, "and should succeed to all such franchises, 'rights and privileges as would have been had by the
original company but for such sale and conveyance." The
case followed that of MIorgan v. Louisiana,93 U. S.217, (also
a foreclosure case,) where it was held that the words "franchises, rights and privileges" did not necessarily include a
grant of exemption or immunity from taxation. See also, to
same effect, Memphis & -Little Bock Railroad v. Railroad
Commissioners, 112 U. S.609. The case of Pickard v. Tennessee dc. Railroad,130 U. S.637, 642, may also be referred to,
upon the point that exemption, although it might be granted,
must be considered as a personal privilege not extending
beyond the immediate grantee unless otherwise so delared in
express terms, and it was therein declared that such immunity

PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.

181

Opinion of the Court.

would not pass merely by a conveyance of the property and
franchises of a railroad company, although such company
might itself hold property exempt from taxation. In that
case Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said: "It is
true there are some cases where the term 'privileges' has
been held to include immunity from taxation, but that has
generally been where other provisions of the act have given
such meaning to it. The later, and we think, the better
opinion, is that unless other provisions remove all doubt of
the intention of the legislature to include an immunity in
the term franchise, it will not be so construed. It can have
its full force by confining it to other grants to the corporation." This language is referred to by Mr. Chief Justice
Fuller in the case of Wilmington & Weldon Railroad v. A18brook, 146 U. S. 279, where, at page 297, he says: "We do
not deny that an exemption from taxation may be construed
as included in the word 'privileges,' if there are other provisions removing all doubt of the intention of the legislature
in that respect," citing the Piokard case.
Looking at the other side, we find the case of Bumyhrey v
Pegues, 16 Wall. 244, where there was a grant to a railroad
company of "all the rights, powers and privileges" granted
by the charter of another company which exempted the
property of such other company from taxation, and it was
held that the property of the first company was thereby also
exempted. Mr. Justice Hunt, in delivering the opinion of
the court, said that "a more important or more comprehensive privilege than a perpetual immunity from taxation can
scarcely be imagined. It contains the essential. idea of a
peculiar benefit or advantage or special exemption from a
burden falling upon others." Again, in Tennessee v. WFitworth, 117 U. S. 139, it was held that a right to have shares
in its capital stock exempt from taxation within the State
was conferred upon a railroad corporation by a state statute
granting to it "all the rights, powers and privileges," or
granting it "all the powers and privileges" conferred upon
another corporation named, if the latter corporation possessed
by law such right of exemption. The question in that case

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

arose as to the meaning of certain statutes passed by the
legislature of Tennessee, resulting in the consolidation of
certain railroads therein mentioned. In the course of his
opinion Mr. Chief Justice Waite cites the case of Philadelphia, Wilminzgton & Baltimore Railroad v. -Maryland,10
How. 376, 393, where :Mr. Chief Justice Taney, speaking of
a statute which authorized the union of two railroad companies, and secured to the union company "the property,
rights and privileges which that law or other laws conferred
on them," (the separate companies or either of them,) said
that such language extended to the union company the
exemption from taxation contained in the charter of one of
the uniting companies. Mr. Chief Justice Waite, continuing,
in his opinion said: "As has already been seen, the word
'privilege' in its ordinary meaning, when used in this connection, includes an exemption from taxation." The decision
in this last case should be confined to the peculiar language
used in the various statutes therein cited, wherein, aside from
the word "privilege," it may be argued that, considering all
the language used ir, those statutes, the intention of the
legislature to exempt the company named from taxation may
fairly well be made out.
The later cases of Pickard v. Tennessee &c. Railroad, 130
U.. S. 637, and Wilmington &c. Railroad v. Alsbrook, 146
U. S. su1pra, show that there must be other language than
the mere word "privilege" or other provisions in the statute
removing all doubt as to the intention of the legislature
before the exemption will be admitted. The case of -Mobile
& Ohio Railroad v. Tennessee, 153 U.. S. 486, adds nothing
to the discussion on either side. The particular point was not
in that case, but it seems to be cited by counsel for plaintiffs
in error for the purpose of showing what was the general
condition of the State at the time of the adoption of the
constitution in 1834, and what was the policy of the State
in regard to internal improvements, which the constitution
declared ought to be encouraged. The incorporation of an
insurance company would hardly come within the most liberal
meaning of the term "internal improvements."

PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.

183

Opinion of the Court.

If this were an original question, we should have no hesitation in holding that the plaintiff in error did not acquire the
exemption from taxation claimed by it, and we think at the
present time the weight of authority, as well as the better
opinion, is in favor of the same conclusion which we should
otherwise reach.
Second. Concluding, as we have, that this plaintiff in error,
insurance company, is not exempt from taxation by the language of the statutes above mentioned, we come to the consideration of the second defence interposed by its shareholders.
It seems that some time in the year 1873 the shareholders or
some of them were sued by the city of Memphis to collect
from them certain taxes alleged to be due that city for the
year 1872 upon the shares of stock held by them. By the
decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee the city recovered
a judgment. A stipulation was then entered into between
the parties to that suit, which is in the record, by which it
appears that the same questions involved in that suit were
fully and fairly presented in the case decided in favor of the
plaintiffs, at that term of court, wherein the State of Tennessee
and Shelby County were complainants and Napoleon Hill and
others, stockholders in the Memphis Fire and General Insurance Company, were defendants, and which action had been
carried to the Supreme Court of the United States by writ of
error for its decision of the questions, and, therefore, to save
the expense of argument in the case, it was agreed by counsel
for all parties that the Memphis city case should abide by the
decision of Tennemee v. Hill, which should be conclusive upon
the parties to the stipulation in all things the same as though
actually rendered in that case. If the decree in the Hill case
were affirmed, then this decree was to be affirmed, and if the
other should be reversed, then this was to be reversed. After
the signing of that stipulation, the Hill oae was duly prosecuted by writ of error and argued before the Supreme Court
of the United States, where the judgment in, favor of complainant was reversed and the cause remanded to the Supreme
Court of Tennessee with directions to enter its decree therein
for the defendant Hill. This was done, and, in accordance

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

with the stipulation above mentioned, a decree was thereupon
entered in the Memphis city action, reversing the judgment
in favor of plaintiff, and adjudging and decreeing that the tax
levied and assessed by the city of Memphis upon the defendant's share of stock was illegal, and adjudging that the city
of Memphis could not legally assess said shares of stock for
taxation, in the hands of the owners thereof, and that such
shares were exempt from any and all municipal taxation, and
the city and its officers were perpetually enjoined from collecting or proceeding to collect such taxes. This judgment
was entered by consent, and pursuant to the stipulation of the
parties entered into at the time the writ of error was sued out
in the H[ill case and it is now set up and offered in evidence
as an adjudication in favor of the shareholders of the insurance comopany who are admitted to be the direct successors of
the shareholders of the company sued in the former action,
and the decision of the state court, refusing the benefit of
that adjudication to the shareholders, is claimed to have been
error, and to present a Federal question for review by this
court. The judgment is not- claimed as an adjudication or
estoppel in favor of the corporation, because the corporation
was not a party to the suit.
We think the decision of the Supreme Court as to the
weight to be given the judgment is not reviewable by us
because it is not a Federal question. The former judgment
determined that, as between the city and the shareholders,
the latter were not subject to pay the taxes for the years
specified. In the action now under consideration we have
determined that there was n6 immunity conferred either upon
the corporation or the stockholders by the statutes cited. On
the trial of this action the former judgment was offered in
evidence by the shareholders, and it was held to constitute
no bar to the maintenance of this action by the plaintiff, nor
did it operate as an estoppel upon their right to claim taxes
for subsequent years. The judgment offered in evidence was
the judgment of a state court, and the refusal to accord to it
all that was claimed for it in the nature of an estoppel by
counsel for plaintiffs in error was, in any event, 1o more than

1?H(ENIX INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

a refusal to give to a judgment of one of its own courts thatdegree of force as evidence which it was by the general
law entitled to. In no event was it anything other than
error committed by the court below in regard to the general
law or rule of evidence, which has nothing of a Federal question connected with it. It is entirely different from the case
of a refusal of a state court to give the proper effect to a
judgment of a court of the United States. If a state court
erroneously refuse to give such weight and effect to a judgment of one of the courts of the United States a Federal
question arises, which is within the jurisdiction of this court
to review upon writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
State. - Crescent City Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union
Slaughter-house Co., 120 U. S. 141. Although no higher
sanctity or effect can be claimed for the judgment of a Federal court than is due 'under the same circumstances to judgments of state courts in like cases, Dupasseur v. Rockereau,
21 Wall. 130, 135; Embry v. Palmer,107 U. S. 3, yet in the
case of a judgment of the former court the Constitution provides that full faith and credit shall be given it, and whether
it has or has not been given it by a state court is a Federal
question, while if the state court erroneously decides a question of law regarding the weight to be given one of its own
judgments in its own courts and among its own citizens, that
error is not subject to review by this court, because it constitutes no Federal question.
If it were otherwise, every decision of a state court, claimed
to be erroneous, which involved the failure to give, what the
defeated party might claim to be the proper weight to one of
its own judgments, would present a Federal question, and
would be reviewable here. There is no question of contract
in the case. It is wholly one.of evidence as to whether or
not a prior judgment in a state court operated as an estoppel
against the plaintiff below, and prevented the state court from
granting it the relief to which it would otherwise be entitled.
In granting relief it was bound to consider the Federal question, as to whether there was or was not a contract of immunity, and that question was open to review here and we have

