OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

their services. Had the Marshal neglected to include them in
his accounts their validity as claims against him would not
have been affected, and if they chose to await payment of
their claims until the Marshal received money applicable to
their services, this was a matter of favor to him. The plain'tiffs are no more the assignees of the deputies' claims against
the government than the deputies were of a share or interest
in the Marshal's claim against the government. Upon the
theory of the defendant the deputies would be without remedy.
They would have no claim directly against the government,
because he stands between them; they would have none
against him personally, since, by his acceptance of their drafts,
they became assignees of a share or interest in his claim against
the government.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina is

Afflrmed.

COCHRAN v. BLOUT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 116. Argued December 12, 13, 1895.-Decided March 2, 1896.

When the plaintiff in a bill in equity alleges facts material to his recovery,
and the defendant in his answer denies them under oath, the burden of
proof is thrown upon the plaintiff.

ON July 21, 1890, George W. Cochran filed, in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, a bill of complaint against
Isaac L. Blout, trustee, James P. Ryon, and Julius Lansburgh,
whereby he sought a decree, in the nature of a decree for
specific performance, to compel Lansburgh to convey to him
an undivided one third equitable interest owned by Lansburgh
in a certain square or tract of land in the city of Washington,
and Blout and Ryon to join in said conveyance as holders of
the legal title.
The facts out of which the controversy grew were substantially these:

COCHRAN v. BLOUT.
Statement of the Case.

By virtue of certain deeds and agreements, not necessary
here to state, on June 1, 1886, the legal title to square 980 in
the city of Washington became vested in Isaac L. Blout, who
executed a cotemporaneous declaration of trust, wherein he
acknowledged that he held said square in trust for the following persons: For himself, one sixth; Julius Lansburgh, one
third; Henry T. Tracy, one sixth; Morris Clark, one sixth,
and the firm of Ryon & Tracy, composed of James P. Ryon
and Burr R. Tracy, one sixth- each of said parties having
paid his proportional part of the purchase money; and for the
following purposes: The land was to be subdivided in such
manner as might be agreed on by the parties in interest, such
agreement to be expressed by the written signature of James
P. Ryon, and to be sold either in whole or in part upon such
terms as should be agreed upon by the parties in interest,
such agreement to be expressed by the written signature of
James P. Ryon, and upon the trust to convey the ground so
sold to the purchaser or purchasers, and to pay over unto the
parties in interest, according to their respective interests at
the time of sale, or, if the parties in interest should so desire,
to apply said proceeds of sale to the payment of certain
described incumbrances on said tract.
In January, 1889, Lansburgh put the- said square, with
.other property wholly his own, into the hands of Joseph
T. Dyer, a real estate broker in the city of Washington, for
sale at and for the sum of twenty-eight cents per square foot.
On September 26, 1889, Dyer gave to George W. Cochran,
the plaintiff, a paper in the following terms:
D. C., Sept. 26, 1889.
"Received of George W. Cochran, Esq., a deposit of three
hundred ($300) dollars, to be applied in part payment of purchase of all of square 980, sold him for 28 cents per square
foot on following terms: One third cash, bal. in 1, 2, and
3 years, with interest at 6 per cent, payable semi-annually;
property sold as a good title or no sale; all taxes to be paid
to Nov. 30th, 1889. The purchaser is required to make full
settlement in accordance with terms of sale within thirty
" WASHNGTON,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement -of the Case.

days from this date or deposit will be forfeited. Conveyancing at purchaser's cost.
"J. T. Dyxn,
"Agentfor Julius Iansburg and others."
On that day Dyer gave a written notice of the sale to
Lansburgh, and on the next day to Ryon & Tracy, who
approved the same. The notice and approval were in form
as follows:
"WisiNGTN, D. C., Sept. 26, 1889.
"Messrs. RvoN & TiRcy.

"DsA SiRs: I have sold square 980 to George W. Cochran,
Esq., for twenty-eight cents per square foot, one third cash,
balance in 1, 2 and 3 years, 6 per cent, and have received
a deposit of $300 to bind the sale; property sold as a good
J. T. DYER.
title.
"Sale approved: RYoN & TRACY, Sept. 27, 1889.
nuLius LA TSBURGH."
"Approved:
There was no third person present when Lansburgh signed
this paper, and one of the disputed questions in this case is
whether Lansburgh's approval was unconditional, or upon the
verbal condition that it was not to bind him until concurred
in by other parties in interest.
Blout and Clark, each holding a one sixth interest in the
property, declined to approve the sale to Cochran. The firm
of Ryon & Tracy, owning a one sixth interest, and Henry C.
Tracy, owning a one sixth interest, were willing to carry out
the sale as made. Lansburgh, having learned that some of
the parties in interest refused to acquiesce in the sale, declined
to convey his share.
Subsequently, on November 14, 1889, Cochran filed a bill
against Blout and all the parties in interest, seeking to have
specific performance of the contract of sale made by Dyer and
approved by Ryon & Tracy and Lansburgh. Blout and Clark
filed answers, alleging that they had not authorized Lansburgh
or Dyer to make the sale to Cochran, and that they had never
approved or ratified the same.

COCHRAN v. BLOUT.
Opinion of the Court.

Ryon & Trady and Henry C. Tracy conveyed their respective interests in the square to Cochran. Evidence was taken,
and Cochran, finding that he could not maintain his bill
against Blout or Clark, dismissed his bill as against them;
and subsequently, on July 21, 1890, filed the present amended
bill.
Lansburgh answered, alleging that he had approved the sale
with the understanding with Dyer that the latter should obtain the consent of Blout before his own approval should take
effect. Blout answered, denying the right of Dyer to make
the sale, and asserting his ignorance of other matters alleged
in the bill.
James P. Ryon answered that he and Tracy had assigned
and transferred to Cochran their interests in the trust property
held by Blout, and expressing his willingness to sign a deed,
to be executed by Blout, trustee, conveying Lansburgh's undivided one third interest in said square.
Issue was duly joined on these answers, and testimony was
taken. The case was heard in the special term of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, and a decree was rendered
for specific performance by Lansburgh as to his one third
interest in the square. In the general term, on appeal by
Lansburgh, the decree of the special term was reversed and
the bill dismissed. From this decree of the general term
Cochran appealed to this court.
.Mr.Samuel Maddox and Mr. A. S. lWorthington for appellant.
Mr. A. B. Duvall and -Mr. Leon Tobriner for appellees.
MR. JUSTxE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In order to be able to enforce specific performance by Lansburgh, as prayed for in his amended bill of complaint, Cochran
must show that, at the time he made the agreement with
Dyer, Lansburgh either held himself out as the owner of the
VOL. CLXI-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

entire square, or as having authority from his cohwners to
sell the whole of it.
It is a conceded fact that Lansburgh was the owner of but
one third interest in the land concerned, and it is clear that,
on September 26, 1889, Dyer was aware that there were other
owners. This appears from the fact that prior to that date
Dyer reported to Lansburgh that one Holtzman had made a
proposal to buy a part of the square, and had been told by
Lansburgh that he was not the sole owner of the property,
and would have to see others. The fact that the paper given
by Dyer to Cochran was signed by the former as agent for
Lansburgh and others was sufficient to show that Dyer was
aware that Lansburgh was not the sole owner, and was notice
to Cochran of that fact.
There remains, then, the other alternative. Did Lansburgh
claim to have authority from his cohwners to act for them in
selling the whole? If he did so, and if Dyer, acting upon
such a representation, contracted, as agent for the owners,
with Cochran for a sale of the entire tract, then it may be conceded that Cochran, upon complianc3 by him with the terms
of the contract, might, on learning that some of the owners had
not authorized Lansburgh to sell their interests and refused to be
bound, hold Lansbui!gh to make good his representations by
conveying his individual interest in the land sold.
In his amended bill of complaint Cochran charges that
Lansburgh claimed to act under authority from the other
owners in placing the lands in the hands of Dyer for sale.
Lansburgh, in his answer, denies that he claimed to act for
the others, and asserts that he fully informed Dyer that he
would have to secure the approval of the other owners; that
Dyer acted upon that information and endeavored vainly to
procure their assent to the sale, and that his, Lansburgh's,
approval of the sale was conditional on such-assent.
In the issue thus formed as to this question of fact thebur"
den is upon Cochran. He must overcome the responsive
effect of the sworn answer, and satisfy a court of equity that
the facts were as alleged by him. And this we think he has
failed to do.

