SOUTHWORTH v. UINITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

SOUTHWORTH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 652. Argued and submitted March 8, 1896.-Decided March 23, 1896.

In an action brought by a Circuit Court commissioner for the District of
Louisiana to recover fees for alleged services rendered the United States
in prosecutions under Rev. Stat. ยง 1986, the Court of Claims found that
the prosecutions were the result of a purpose on the part of party managers to purge, as they alleged, the register of illegal voters ; that the
commissioner made no inquiry or examination of witnesses to satisfy
himself of probable cause, but simply issued warrants on the affidavits
filed; that the warrants issued were not signed by himself but by a number of clerks who used a stamp, which was a fac-simile of his signature,
until the stamp was broken, and then simply wrote his name; that In the
issuance of warrants the commissioner exercised no discretion, and
made no personal examination of the complaints or witnesses, but issued
a warrant in all cases in which a complaint was made; that the warrants
were issued generally for the purpose of affecting the register of votes
to be used in the election, and not to arrest and punish offenders; that in
a large majority of the 1303 cases in which the defendants were discharged it did not appear that the commissioner performed any service
in investigating the offences charged, nor in judicially determining the
guilt or innocence of the parties. Held, that tliese findings justified
the further finding of that court that "from said facts the court finds
the ultimate fact to be that the claimaint's testator did not perform the
services for the United States in good faith for the purpose of enforcing
the criminal law," and the judgment entered thereon in favor of the
United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mrt. Lewis Abraham and Mr. George A. Zing for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Dodge and -Mr. Charles
IF. Russell, for appellees, submitted on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On December 16, 1878, the testator of plaintiff filed his
petition in the Court of Claims, praying judgment against the
United States for the sum of $82,830, for services as United

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

States commissioner for the District of Louisiana. The petition alleged that proceedings were commenced before him as
such commissioner in 8283 cases, and that under ยง 1986, Rev.
Stat., he was entitled to ten dollars for each case. A demurrer
thereto having been sustained, and a judgment of dismissal
rendered, his executrix, the present appellant- he having
died pending the suit-appealed to this court, and here the
judgment of the Court of Claims was reversed, and the case
remanded for further proceedings. 151 U. S. 179.
In the opinion then filed this court, while disapproving of
the contention that the mere multitude of cases was proof of.
a lack of good faith, at the same time distinctly recognized
that no cause of action arose against the government unless
the proceedings, judicial in form, were instituted and carried
on in good faith and with a view to the arrest and punishment of offenders; and the.case was remanded in order that
that question of fact might be considered and determined.
Thereafter a trial was had in the Court of Claims, and upon
the testimony presented that court found, in its sixth finding,
as follows: "From said facts the court finds the ultimate fact
to be that the claimant's testator did not perform the services
for the United States in good faith for the purpose of enforcing the criminal law." And upon this finding judgment was
entered in favor of the defendant. From which judgment
the plaintiff has again appealed to this court.
If nothing else were before us than the conclusion of the
Court of Claims, expressed in the sixth finding, there would
be little for consideration; because, as was held when the case
was here before, a lack of good faith on the part of a commissioner may rightfully be pleaded in bar of any claim against
the United States for compensation.
But the contention is that this sixth finding is dependent
on facts stated in the prior findings, and that they do not
warrant the conclusion. Those findings show that "the prosecutions were the result of a purpose on the part of party
managers to purge, as they alleged, the register of illegal
voters;" that the commissioner made no "inquiry or examination of witnesses to satisfy himself of probable cause," but

SOUTHWORTH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

simply "issued warrants on the affidavits" filed, and that
the warrants were not signed by himself but by a number
of clerks who used, until broken, a stamp, which made a
fac-simile of his signature, and thereafter simply wrote his
name; that of the 8283 persons against whom warrants were
issued, about 2000 were persons of respectability and character, residents of the city of New Orleans, and these facts
being disclosed the prosecutions were summarily dismissed.
It appears further that "in the issuance of warrants the
commissioner exercised no discretion, and made no personal examination of the complaints or witnesses, but issued
a warrant in all cases in which a complaint was made;"
"that the warrants were issued generally for the purpose of
affecting the register of votes to be used in the election, and
not to arrest and punish offenders;" that in a large majority
of the 1303 cases in which the defendants were discharged it
does not appear that the commissioner "performed any service in investigating the offences charged, nor in judicially
determining the guilt or innocence of the parties." Further
findings show that there were 120 persons swearing to the
affidavits, each affidavit being sworn to by two persons, there
being sixty groups of two persons, and that these affidavits
were filed against persons who had registered for the purpose
of voting at elections prior to that of 1876, and who, in the
meantime, had removed from the ward or voting precinct in
which they- had theretofore been registered, but had not
caused their names to be changed by the supervisors of
registration.
Do these facts justify the conclusion stated in the sixth finding? What is a judicial proceeding, and what function does
a commissioner perform in instituting a criminal prosecution?
Is it partisan in any sense of the term? May a judicial officer
exercise the powers conferred upon him to aid any party or
faction in respect to a coming election? It seems that the
mere statement of the inquiry carries an answer in condemnati6n. The very thought of a judicial office is that its functions
are not partisan or political, and that he who occupies such office stands indifferent to all questions of mere party success.
VOL. CLXI-41

