OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

under the Constitution of the United States. It is apparent
that no rights under the Constitution of the United States
arose in favor of the claimant from the provision conferring
on the courts of the State the authority to examine and recommend, since all the benefits resulting therefrom could admittedly be withdrawn without violating the contract. To
give effect to the contention of the plaintiff in error, we should
be obliged to announce the contradictory proposition that
where there were no rights under the Constitution of the
United States to be impaired, yet a decision of the state court
had impaired such rights. We should also be obliged to
hold that although the State could at its will take away the
right without impairing the contract, yet a decision by the
court of last resort, of the State, that the right had been taken
away was an impairment of the contract. The fallacy contained in the argument results from overlooking the fact that
the moment it is admitted that the repeal of the right to have
the claim examined and recommended is no impairment of the
obligation of the contract secured under the Constitution of
the United States, the question whether or not such right has
been repealed becomes purely a question of state law to be
determined by thp state courts.
IJudgment
afflrmed.

BALTZER AND TAAKS v. NORTHE CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 52. Argued February 3, 4, 1896. -- [Decided March 2 1896.

.Baltzerv. North Carolina, ante 240, followedL

THE case is stated in the

'opinion.

Mr. Simon Sterne for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. James . Shep erd and Mr. Chare X. .Busbee, (with
whom was -Mr.F. I. Osborne on the brief,) for defendant in
error.

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JusTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim presented in this case to the Supreme Court of
the State of North Carolina differs somewhat from that relied
on ifi that court in the case of fermann 1R. Baltzer v. The
State of North Carolina, No. 93. of the docket of this court.
The question of the power in the state court to give the relief
prayed for was by it decided adversely to the plaintiffs in
error upon grounds identical with those considered by us in
the case just decided. Our reasons for affirmance there expressed are conclusive of the issues here, and consequently the

judgment is
Affirmed.

LYNCH v. MURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 129. Argued December 18, 19, 1895. -Decided

March 2, 1898.

ndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, affirmed to the point that the duty of determining unsettled questions respecting title to real estate is local in its
nature, to be discharged in such mode as may be provided by the State
in which the land is situated, when such mode does not conflict with
some special prohibition of the Constitution, or is not against natural
justice.
Applying that doctrine to this case it is held that the decree In the equity
cause of .Pippertv. English was not void for want of personal service on
English and his wife, as the laws relating to the District of Columbia
permit service by publication upon absent defendants.
And further, as the evidence shows that Pippert had no knowledge of the
attempt by Mrs. English to incumber the land In question by a deed of
trust, the recording of the instrument did not give him constructive
notice of it, as the formalities required by law to authorize the recording were not complied with.
That deed of trust was inoperative as a legal instrument.
There being no actual notice, and the recording of the defective deed not
operating as construdtive notice, the alleged equitable lien is wholly Inoperative against those holding under the decree below.

TiE complainant below was Christeina Murphy, who sued

