UNITED STATES v. ZUCKER.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. ZUCKER.
BRROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 794. Argued January 14, 1896. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

In an action against importers brought to recover from them the value of
merchandise, originally belonging to them, and alleged to have been forfeited to the United States under the provisions of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, § 9, the defendants cannot demand,
as of right, that they shall be confronted, at the trial, with witnesses
who testify in behalf of the government.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. A8s8itant Attornmy General Whitney for plaintiffs in
error.
.Mr. Abram J. Rose, (with whom was Mr. Peter Zuoker on
the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiOE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, § 9, 26 Stat. 131, 135,
known as the Customs Administrative Act, it is provided that
"if any owner, importer, consignee, agent, or other person
shall make or attempt to make any entry of imported merchandise by means of any fraudulent or false invoice, affidavit,
letter, paper, or by means of any false statement, -written or
verbal, or by means of any false or fraudulent practice or appliance whatsoever, or shall be guilty of any wilful act or omission by means whereof the United States shall be deprived of
the lawful duties or any portion thereof, accruing upon the
merchandise, or any portion thereof, embraced or referred to
in such invoice, affidavit, letter, paper, or statement, or affected
by such act or omission, such merchandise or the value thereof,
to be recovered from the person making the entry, shall be
forfeited, which forfeiture shall only apply to the whole of
the merchandise or the value thereof in the case or package
containing the particular article or articles of merchandise to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

which such fraud or false paper or statement relates; and
such person shall, upon conviction, be fined for each offence
a sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, or be imprisoned
for a time not exceeding two years, or both, in the discretion
of the court."
The present action was brought to recover from the defendants the sum of $346.02 as the value of certain merchandise
originally belonging to them and alleged to have been forfeited to the United States under the above statute.
The complaint, which is in the form prescribed by the New
York Code of Civil Procedure, alleged that, on or about
December 14, 1891, certain described merchandise was imported into the United States, at the port of New York, and
when so imported was subject to the payment of duties; that
the defelndants, the owners, importers, and consignees of such
merchandise, entered the same at the office of the collector,
to whom was produced a duly certified invoice, purporting to
show the actual cost of the merchandise, and also a declaration, which entry and declaration were signed and verified in
the manner and form required by law; that said entry,
invoice, affidavit, and paper were false and fraudulent, as the
defendants well knew, in that the actual cost of such merchandise was greater than the amount stated therein; and
that the defendants wilfully and wrongfully concealed the
actual cost of such merchandise, whereby the United States
had been deprived of the lawful duties, or a portion thereof,
,accruing upon the same.
The defendants made a general denial of each allegation of
the plaintiff. As separate defences they pleaded: 1. That the
merchandise mentioned in the complaint was not forfeited.
-2. That the action was not .brought against the person making the entry of the merchandise in the complaint specified.
3. That the duties on all goods imported by them during the
times specified in the complaint had been liquidated and paid
by them, and such merchandise delivered to them as the owners thereof, all without fraud, and that more than one year
had elapsed since the date of the entry, referred to by the
United States.

UNITED STATE

v. ZUOKER.

Opinion of the Court.

At the trial below the government, to sustain the issues on
its part, offered to read in evidence a deposition that had been
duly taken in Paris, France, and was properly authenticated
and certified under letters rogatory, properly issued and
returned.
The defendants objected to the admission of this testimony
upon the following grounds: 1. That this action, though civil
in form, was in substance a criminal case, and, under the Constitution of the United States, the defendants were entitled
on the trial "to be confronted with the witnesses" against
them. 2. That "the constitutional right of the defendants
to be confronted with the witnesses against them is not secured by giving them notice of the execution of letters
rogatory in France, and that their failure to attend on such
occasion at a place three thousand miles from the place of
trial, out of the district and in a foreign country, does not
operate as a waiver of their constitutional right, if it can be
waived."
In answer to questions propounded by the court, the defendants admitted that the evidence was material, and placed their
objection to it upon the grounds just stated.
The court thereupon sustained the objection and excluded
the evidence, to which action the government excepted.
The United States having no other evidence to offer, the
jury, by direction of the court, returned a verdict for the
defendants, and the action was thereupon dismissed.
The only question presented for our decision is, whether the
court below erred in excluding the deposition which the government took in Paris, France, and the materiality of which
is conceded by the defendant.
The sole ground of objection to the deposition, as we have
seen, was that, in this action to recover the value of merchandise alleged to have been forfeited to the United States under
the ninth section of the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, no deposition, wherever taken, could be -read against the defendants,
without their consent, but the witness must testify in person,
before the court, during the progress of the trial.
This objection is supposed to be sustained by the Sixth

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Amendment of the Constitution, which provides that "in all
criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a
speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and
district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which
district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to
be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be
con.fronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have
the assistance of counsel for his defence."
In support of their contention the defendants cite Cofey v.
United States, 116 U. S. 436, 443; Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S.616, 634, and'Lees v. United States, 150 U. S.476.
Coey v. United States was a civil information, on behalf
of the United States, against certain property that had been
seized by an internal revenue officer as forfeited to the United
States on account of the alleged violations of certain provisions of the Revised Statutes relating to internal revenue.
Rev. Stat. §§ 3257, 3450, 3453. Coffey intervened and claimed
the property. One of the defences was that a criminal information had been filed against him in respect of the matters
set forth in one or more of the counts of the declaration, and
that upon a trial he had been acquitted. The principal question presented in the civil case was as to the effect of the
trial, verdict, and judgment of acquittal in the criminal case.
This court, after observing that the proceeding to enforce the
forfeiture against the res named must be a proceeding in rem
and a civil action, while that to impose upon the offender the
fine and imprisonment prescribed by statute must be a criminal proceeding, said: "Yet, where an issue raised as to the
existence of the act or fact denounced has been tried in a
criminal proceeding, instituted by the United States, and a
judgment of acquittal has been rendered in favor of a particular person, that judgment is conclusive in favor of such
person on the subsequent trIal of a suit in rem by the United
States, where, as against him, the existence of the same act
or fact is the matter in issue, as a cause for the forfeiture of
the property prosecuted in such suit in rem."
That case is an authority for the proposition that if the

UNITED STATES v. ZUCKER.
Opinion of the Court.

present defendants had been proceeded against criminally on
account of the same acts and facts that must be shown in
order to sustain this action under the statute of 1890, and had
been acquitted, the verdict and judgment of acquittal would
have barred a subsequent civil proceeding, based on the same
acts and facts, and instituted to enforce a forfeiture or to
recover the value of the merchandise forfeited.
Boyd v. United States was an information, in a cause of
seizure and forfeiture of property, against certain merchandise
seized as forfeited to the United States under the twelfth section of the Customs Act of June 22, 1874, c. 391, 18 Stat. 186,
188. Boyd intervened and claimed the goods. On the trial
it became important to show the quantity and value of the
merchandise contained in certain cases previously imported.
The court, on motion of the District Attorney, made an order,
under the fifth section of the above act, requiring the claimant to produce the invoice of those cases. The order was
obeyed, the claimant, however, objecting to its validity, as
well as to the constitutionality of the statute. When the
invoice was offered by the government as evidence, Boyd
objected to its reception on the ground that, in a suit for
forfeiture, the claimant himself could not be compelled to
produce evidence, and that the statute, in that particular, was
invalid. This court said: "As showing the close relation
between civil and criminal proceedings on the same statute
in such cases, we may refer to the recent case of Cofey v.
United States, in which we decided that an acquittal on a
criminal information was a good plea in bar to a civil information for the forfeiture of goods, arising upon the same acts.
As, therefore, suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred by
the commission of offences against the law are of this quasi
criminal nature, we think that they are within the reason
of criminal proceedings for all the purposes of the Fourth
Amendment of the Constitution, and of that portion of th6
Fifth Amendment which declares that no person shall be
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself; and we are further of opinion that a compulsory production of the private books and papers of the owner of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

goods sought to be forfeited in such a suit is compelling him
to be a witness against himself, within the meaning of the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, and is the equivalent
of a search and seizure- and an unreasonable search and
seizure- within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
Though the proceeding in question is divested of many of
the aggravating incidents of actual search and seizure, yet, as
before said, it contains their substance and essence, and effects
their substantial purpose."
The principles announcedin the Boyd case have no application whatever to the present case. Neither the constitutional provision which protects the people in theie persons,
houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and
seizures, nor the provision that a person shall not be compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, has any
-bearing whatever upon the inquiry whether the right of an
accused, in a criminalprosecution,"to be confronted with the
witnesses against him," is infringed by permitting a deposition
of a living witness to be read against him in an action brought
to recover the value of merchandise forfeited to the United
States by reason of his acts in violation of law. This is so manifest that it is impossible, by any argument, to make it clearer.
Equally, inapplicable to the present inquiry is the case of
Lees v. United States, 150 U. S. 4-76. That was a civil action
to recover a penalty imposed by the act of February 26, 1885,
c. 164, 23 Stat. 332, for importing an alien under a contract
to perform labor. Our attention has been called to that part
of the opinion in that case, in which it was declared, uion the
authority of Boyd v. United States, above cited, that although
the proceeding against Lees was civil in form, it was "unquestionably criminal in its nature, and in such a case a defendant
cannot be compelled to be a witness against himself." But
that principle is not involved in the present case.
No case has been cited which sustains the contention of the
defendants. And we are unaware of any such case in England, where the constitutional principle embodied in the Sixth
Amendment, and here involved, is recognized as part of the
law of the land.

UNITE)

STATES v. ZUCKER.

Opinion of the Court.

The Sixth Amendment relates to a prosecution of an accused
person which is technically criminal in its nature. In such a
proceeding, the person accused is entitled to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the State, as well as of a district previously ascertained by law in which the crime charged
against him shall have been committed; whereas an action,
in which a judgment for money only is sought, even if, in
some aspects, it is one of a penal nature, may be brought
wherever the defendant is found and is served with process,
unless some statute requires it to be brought in a particular
jurisdiction. The words, in the Sixth Amendment, "to be
informed of the nature and cause of the accusation," obviously
refer to a person accused of crime, whether a felony or misdemeanor, for which he is prosecuted by indictment or presentment, or in some other.authorized mode which may involve
his personal security. So the clause declaring that the accused,
in a criminal prosecution, is entitled "to be confronted with
the witnesses against him," has no reference to any proceeding (although the evidence therein may disclose, of necessity,
the commission of a public offence) which is not directly
against a person who is accused, and upon whom a fine or
imprisonment, or both, may be imposed. A witness who
proves facts entitling the plaintiff in a proceeding in a courtof the United States, even if the plaintiff be the government,
to a judgment for money only, and not to a judgment which
directly involves the personal safety of the defendant, is not,
within the meaning of the Sixth Amendment, a witness against
an "accused" in a criminal prosecution; and.his evidence may
be brought before the jury, in the form of a deposition, taken
as prescribed by the statutes regulating the ihode in which
depositions to be used in the courts of the United States may
be taken. The defendant, in such a case, is no more entitled
to be confronted at the trial with the witnesses of the plaintiff than he would be in a case where the evidence related to
a claim for money that could be established without disclosing any facts tending to show the commission of crime.
In Counwelman v. Ritchoock, 142 U. S. 547, 562, it was held
that the provision in the Fifth Amendment that no person
voL OLIM-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a withiess
against himself," covered, but was not limited to, criminal
prosecution; that its object was "to insure that a person
should not be compelled, when acting as a witness in any
investigation, to give testimony which might tend to show
that he himself had committed a crime." In the argument
of that case reference was made to the Sixth Amendment in
support of the proposition that an investigation before a grand
jury was not a criminal case, within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment, and was solely for the purpose of finding out
whether a crime had been committed. But this court said
that a criminal prosecution, within the meaning of the Sixth
Amendme±Lt, wac. one against a person who was accused and
who was to be tried by a petit jury; that "a criminal prosecution under article six of the Amendments is mucb narrower
than a criminal case under article five of the Amendments."
Of course, if the government had elected to prosecute the
present defendants, criminally, for the offence defined in the
ninth section of the act of 1890, a verdict and judgment of
acquittal could have been pleaded in bar of an action to
recover the value of the merchandise.
Coffey v. United
States, above cited. But it does not follow that the defendants can demand of right, in this civil action, not directly involving their personal security, that they shall be confronted,
at the trial, with the witnesses who testify in behalf of the
government.
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded with
directions to set aside the verdict and judgment, and for
furtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion.

