SHELBY COUNTY v. UNION &o. BANK.
Counsel for the Plaintitl

These views lead to a reversal of so much of the judgment
as is against the shareholders,and the cases are, therefore,
remanded to the state courtfor further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JusTicE WHiTE

concurred in so far as the decree recog-

nized the exemption of the shares of stock from all taxation
except that enumerated in the contract, but dissented from
the conclusion as to the power to tax the surplus and undivided profits.

SHELBY COUNTY v. UNION AND PLANTERS'
BANK.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

oIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

THE WESTERN DISTRICT
No. 766.

STATES FOR

OF TENNESSEE.

Argued January 20, 21, 22, 1896. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

A clause in the charter by a State of a banking corporation requiring it to
"pay to the State an annual tax of one half of one per cent on each
share of capital stock which shall be In lieu of all other taxes," while it
limits the amount of tax on each share of stock in the hands of the shareholders, does not apply to or cover the case of the capital stock of the
corporation or its surplus and accumulated profits, but such capital stock,
surplus and accumulated profits are liable to be taxed as the State may
determine.
The previous cases examined, and shown (especially Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, and Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133) not to
be inconsistent with the above decision.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. P. Walker, (with whom were Mr. C. W. Metcalf and
Mr. F. T. Edmondson on his brief,) for the State of Tennessee
and the County of Shelby, cited the following Tennessee cases :
Aemphis v. Farrington,8 Bax. 539; State v. UAion Bank, 9
Yerg. 488; .smephis v. Ensley, 6 Bax. 553; Nashville Gaslight Co. v. -ashvile, 8 Lea, 407; Street Railroad v. fMorrow,
3 Pickle, 406.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Hr. William Hf. Carroll, (with whom was Air. ksham G.
Rarris on the brief,) for Union & Planters' Bank, cited the
following Tennessee cases: Knoxville Railroad v. Hicks, 9
Bax. 442; State v. Butler, 13 Lea, 400; State v. Butler, 2
Pickle, 614; University of the South v. Skidmore, 3 Pickle,
156; -Memphis v. Union & Planters' Bank, 7 Pickle, 546;
Memphis v. Memphis City Bank, 7 Pickle, 574; Eazen v.
Bank, 1 Sneed, 115; Memphis v. Farrington,8 Baxter, 539;
Tennessee v. Union Bank, 9 Yerger, 488; State v. Nashville
Savings Bank, 16 Lea, 111.
MR. JusTlcE PEcKA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee, granting an injunction at the suit of the Union & Planters' Bank to
restrain the municipal aitthorities from collecting any tax laid
upon the surplus of the bank, on the.ground that such surplus
is exempt under a clause in the charter of the bank similar to
the one discussed in the above cases of the Bank of Commerce,
ante, 134. The Circuit Court granted the injunction and permanently enjoined the municipal authorities from the collection of the tax. They have appealed to this court.
There are two grounds, either of which, if decided in favor
of appellants in this case, would, result in upholding the validity of the tax upon the surplus: First, ff it should be held that
by the true interpretation of the charter the exemption, while
applying to the shares of stock in the hands of the shareholders, does not extend to the corporation itself, the' tax
would be valid; second, even if the tax on the capital stock
were void, that upon the surplus might still be upheld on the
authority of the case of the Bank of Commerce, ante, 134. We
have already held in that case that a tax on the surplus was
valid, but the question whether a tax on the capital stock of
the bank was valid could not be raised there, because the case
was before us on a writ of error taken to a state court, and
the question in the state court was decided in favor of the
exemption claimed by the bank. This being an appeal from

SHELBY COUNTY v. UN ION &c. BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

a judgment of the United States Circuit Court, both questions
are open for our decision. We think it, therefore, proper to
here decide the question first above stated.
Various decisions of the courts of Tennessee have been cited
by counsel on both sides as to the meaning of the exemption
clause, whether or not it covered the capital stock and the
shares also. Generally, the courts of that State held before
the decision by this court of the Farringtoncase, that the
charter tax was laid upon the corporate capital stock, and the
exemption was of that stock from any further tax. Subsequently to the decision in that case the state courts have held
that under the construction given to the clause in the Farrington case and in Bank v. Tennessee, 104 U. S. 493, the tax was
on the shares, and the exemption covered both the capital
stock and the shares thereof. The decision givi-ig exemption
to both classes of property was adjudged alone upon the
authority cited. In such a case as this, where we are to construe the meaning of the clause of the statute as to what contract is contained therein, and whether the State has passed
any law impairing its obligation, we are not bound by the
previous decisions of the state courts, except when they have
been so long and so firmly established as to constitute a rule
of property, (which is not the case here,) and we decide for
ourselves independently of the decisions of the state courts,
whether there is a contract and whether its obligation is impaired. Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Palmes, 109
U. S. 244, 256; Vicksburg &c. Railroad v. Dennis, 116 U. S.
665-667; -Mobile& Ohio Railroad v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 480,
492.
While according to the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee the respect which is most .justly due them on account of the high character of that tribunal, nevertheless the
responsibility is upon us to determine the question independently, and we cannot agree with that court in its construction of the decisions of this court in the two cases mentioned.
Indeed, one of the judges of the state court said in the course
of an opinion, -Memphois v. Union & Planters' Bank, 7 Pickle,
546, 553, that since the Farringtoncase the court had recog-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

.nized the decision and had, at the same time, adhered to its
own former decisions that no ad valorem tax could be lawfully laid on the capital stock, and thus the effect of the two
decisions, the one Federal and the other state, was that
both classes were exempted. Other judges said they were
exempted by reason of the Federal decisions.
We stated in the Bank of Commerce case, ante, 131, that the
tax provided in this charter is laid upon the shares of stock in
the hands of the shareholders, and they are exempt from any
further taxation on account of their ownership of such shares.
In that respectwe followed the case of Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, and we refused in the Bank of Commerce
case to overrule or distinguish it; but it is claimed on the
part of the appellee herein that the Farrington case also
decided that the charter tax is in lieu of all other taxps, not
only upon the shares in the hands of the shareholders, but
that it exempts the corporation and all its property from any
further taxation. We cannot give so broad an effect to the
decision in the Farringtoncase. The question of the exemption of the corporation and its property from taxation did not
arise in that case, and there was no adjudication of that question by its decision. Farringtou was the owner of certain
shares of stock in the bank, and the State and the county of
Shelby each claimed the right, under the law, to assess taxes
against him by reason of his ownership of those shares, at the
same rate that taxes were assessed and levied upon other taxable property. He resisted the payment of the taxes upon
the ground t1at by virtue of the exemption clause in the
charter the bank, its franchise, its capital stock, and also the
shares of stock of the individual stockholders, were subject to
no taxation other than at the rate specified in the charter.
Although in setting forth the grounds of 'his resistance to
the payment of the tax, Farrington stated that the bank, its
franchise and its capital stock, were not subject to taxation,
still that was not a material question. If the shares of stock
owned by him were not subject to taxation in his hands, that
was sufficient for him, and the question of the exemption of
property of the corporation would not be involved. The

SHELBY COUNTY v. UNION &c. BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation was not a party to the suit, and although in the
opinion written upon the decision of the question whether
the shares were liable to taxation in his hands, it may have
rather been assumed that the stock was not subject to taxation as against the corporation, or that the whole stock was
exempt in whosesoever hands it was, the matter actually
decided was the exemption from taxation of these shares in
the hands of the shareholders. In the suit that was instituted it was agreed that if in any event the decision was
adverse to Farrington, judgment should be rendered against
him for a certain number of dollars, the amount of the tax
assessed against him, and if the decision should be in his
favor, then the judgment was to be that the taxes were illegally assessed, and that said shares of stock were to be
exempt from all other taxation, except the one half of one
per cent to the State, as provided for in the tenth section of
the bank's charter, and the collection of any further tax was
to be enjoined. The trial court rendered a decree enjoining
the collection of the tax, which was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State, on the ground that the shares of stock
were not the property or thing exempted, and it was, therefore, adjudged that Farrington should pay to the State the
sums of money assessed upon his shares. Farrington thereupon sued out a writ of error, and coming into this court the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee was reversed,
and it was held that the charter tax was upon the shares of
stock in the hands of its shareholders, and that they were
consequently exempt from the payment of any further tax.
There are undoubtedly some expressions in the opinion of
Mr. Justice Swayne which lend color to the idea that, in his
belief, not only were the shares in the hands of the shareholders exempt from any further taxation than that imposed
by the charter, but that the property of the corporation was
itself exempt from any taxation other than that provided for
in that section; the ratter question, however, was not before
the court and was not decided by it, and we are of opinion
that, assuming that the charter tax was laid upon the shares
of stock in the hands of the shareholders, the exemption from

OCTOBER TERM, '1895.
Opinion of the Court.

further taxation applies to the subject which was taxed under
the charter, and is not of any greater scope, and that it would
not, therefore, include the exemption from taxation of either
the capital stock or the surplus, which is the property of the
corporation itself. We come to this conclusion because of the
fact, well established by the decisions of this as well as many
state courts, that there is a clear distinction between the capital stock of a corporation and the shares of stock of such
corporation in the hands of its individual shareholders. So
separate are these properties, and so distinct in their nature,
that the taxation of the one property is not the taxation of
the other. This is no new doctrine, and the distinction between the two properties was recognized by the Supreme
Court of Tennessee as long ago as in the case of the Union
Bank v. State, 9 Yerger, 490, decided in 1836. It was held
that, under the clause of the charter there under consideration,
any further tax on the capital stock than that which was provided for in the charter itself was void, but that the State
mighttax the shares of stock in the hands of individuals notwithstanding the exemption from further taxation on the
capital stock.
We do not admit the claim made by the counsel for appellee,
that the F arrington case must have decided the exemption of
the stock of the corporation, because in the case of Wickes v.
State of Tennessee, (mentioned in a note to the Farrington
ease at page 690,) as is claimed, the exemption was of the capital stock of the corporation which was held nevertheless to
come within the principle of the main case decided. There
was no material difference in the meaning of the exemption
clause in the various cases mentioned in the note to the .Farrington case. Those clauses were of substantially the same import
as that in the Farrington case, and they are set forth in the
dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Strong at page 692 of the
report. The whole court was of one opinion upon the subject,
that there was no substantial difference in the extent of the
exemptions contained in the several charters, although there
was some difference in their phraseology, but the question was,
as stated by Mr. Justice Strong, which of the parties was to

SHELBY COUNTY v. UNION &c. BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

receive the benefit of the exemption, namely, was it to be the
corporation, or was it intended for the individual stockholder.
It was upon that question that the court divided; those in the
minority believing that the exemption was intended in each
case for the corporation, while the case as actually decided
holds that the individual shareholder was entitled to the benefit from the exemption, and there is no adjudication that that
exemption extended also to the corporation and its property.
Other cases in this court are cited by counsel for the appellee, which it is claimed are authority for their proposition of
exemption of the corporate property from further taxation.
Among them is the State Bank of Ohio v. Rinoop, 16 How.
369. The sixtieth section of the general banking law of the
State of Ohio, passed in 1845, required the bank to set off six
per cent of each semi-annual dividend made by it for the use
of the State, which sum or amount so set off was to be in lieu
of all taxes to which the company or, stockholders therein
would otherwise be subject. Subsequently, the State passed
an act providing for other and different taxation. The bank
refused to pay, whereupon the treasurer of the county brought
an action to enforce payment of such tax, and it was claimed
on the part of the treasurer that the provision in the general
banking law, above mentioned, was not a contract fixing the
amount of the tax, but was a law prescribing a rule of taxation until changed by the legislature. This court held that it
was a contract, and that as the operation of the law providing
for a different tax increased the tax upon the bank, it was
protected by the terms of its contract, and was not bound to
pay that increase. The claim was also argued in that case, on
the part of the State, that it was not within the power of anylegislature to tie up the hands of subsequent legislatures in
the exercise of the powers of taxation, and hence the provision in question, if construed as an attempt to accomplish
that end, must be held to be void. But it was held in this
court that the legislature had the power to pass the act in
question, and that the bank was entitled to be protected from
any further or other taxation. The question, which of the
two properties, the bank or the shares of stock in the hands

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the shareholders, was liable to taxation was not in the case,
and was not decided, but the language of the statute is totally
different and much more comprehensive than the language of
the charter now before the court. In the Ohio case the payment was to be in lieu of all taxes to which the company or
the stockholders would otherw'ise be subject, embracing both
propositions. The case is certainly no authority for the claim
made on the part of this appellee.
The next case is that of -Dodge V. Woolsey, 18 How. 331.
This is substantially the same case as that just above mentioned, with the sole difference that the State in 1851 adopted
a new constitution, in which it was declared that taxes should
be imposed upon banks in the mode which an act subsequently
passed in 1852 purported to carry out. An assessment was
made upon the bank which would result in a larger tax than
that provided for in the charter, and one of the shareholders
in, the bank commenced a suit in equity against the directors
to prevent them from paying the tax, on the ground that the
bank was exempt from any such payment, and that it would
be a misapplication of the capital or profits of the bank if
either were taken to pay such tax. This court again decided
as to the validity of the contract in favor of the bank, and
that there was no material distinction between the two cases
arising from the fact that the State of Ohio had adopted a
new constitution in the meantime, and under that had passed
an act providing for a different method of assessing the property of the bank. This was held to be wholly immaterial as
having no effect upon the validity and binding force of the
original contract for exemption contained in the charter of
the bank.
The same question again came before this court in Jeffersom
Branch Bank v. Skelley, I Black, 436, the only purpose of
which case seems to have been to ask of this court a reexamination of the questions already decided and a reversal of its
judgments already twice rendered. This was refused, and the
opinion closed by citing the language of the Chief Justice in
Knoop's case as follows: "I think that by the sixtieth section
of the act of 1845, the State of Ohio bound itself by a con-

SHELBY COUNTY v. UNION &c. BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

tract to levy no higher tax than the one there mentioned
upon the banks or stocks of banks organized under that law
during the continuance of their charters. In my judgment,
the words used are too plain to admit of any other construction." Nothing in those cases, construing the charter of the
Ohio bank, affords any countenance to the claim made here.
One other case from this court is cited, that of Gordon
v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133, 147. The question in that
case depended upon the constitutionality of a tax imposed by
the legislature of Maryland in 1841, it being alleged to be in
violation of a contract made by the legislature in 1821. The
legislature of Maryland in 1821 continued the charters of
several banks to the year 1845, upon condition that they
would make a road and pay a school tax, and it was provided
that if any banks should accept and comply with the terms
and conditions of the act the faith of the State was pledged
not to impose any further tax or burden upon them during
the continuance of their charters under the act. Subsequently
a tax was levied upon the stockholders as individuals, according to the amount of their stock, and it was held that by the
legislation of 1821 continuing the charters of the banks upon
conditions which had been accepted and performed- by the
banks, a contract was created relating to something beyond
the franchise, and that it exempted the stockholders from the
tax which the State endeavored to levy upon them thereafter.
This case lends some color to the claim made by the appellee,
and yet we do not think it is decisive in favor of that claim.
It was a peculiar case. The banks were all in existence, and
the question was in regard to their accepting a condition upon
compliance with which their charters were to be extended.
The act of acceptance, it was stated, would be that of the
individual shareholders. The tax was on the shares, and the
question which was made was whether the act of the legislature of Maryland of 1841, in imposing a tax upon those shares,
impaired the obligation of the contract theretofore entered
into between the bank and the State of Maryland. There
were two classes of banks, designated as the old and new
banks. The old were those which were chartered previous to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the year 1821, and the new those which were chartered after
the year 1830, and taxes had always, since the incorporation
of the banks, been assessed upon their real and personal property in all the cities and counties of the State in the same
manner as upon property of the same kind belonging to individuals, and they had always been paid by the banks up to
this time. Mr. Justice Wayne in the course of his opinion
puts the question: "Does it (the act in question) exempt the
respective capital stocks of the banks, as an aggregate, and
the stockholders from being taxed as persons on account of
their stock? We think it does both. The aggregate could
not be taxed, without its having the same effect upon the
parts, that a tax upon the parts would have upon the whole.
Besides, the legislature, in proposing the terms and conditions
of the act, used the word ' banks' with reference to the consent or acceptance of the act being given by the stockholders,
according to a fundamental article of their charters. The
acceptance of the act could only be made by the stockholders. They did accept, and the State recognized it is the act
of the stockholders. It could not have been given or been
recognized in any other way. True it is, that when accepted
and recognized, it became a contract with the banks. But its
becoming a contract with the banks determines of itself nothing. We must look in what character or by whose assent it
was to become a contract with the State, to ascertain the intention of the legislature in making, the pledge, ' that upon
any of the aforesaid banks accepting of and complying with
the terms and conditions of this act, the faith of the State is
hereby pledged not to impose any further tax or burden upon
them during the continuance of their charters under this act.'"
The Justice then proceeded in the opinion to discuss the
question as to what was meant by the language of exemption,
and it was claimed thai by reason of the peculiar nature of
the act of acceptance, which was that of the stockholders as
distinguished from the corporate action of the bank by the
board of directors, the exemption was offered and directed to
that authority which could accept the condition and perform
it, namely, the stockholders themselves, and hence it was

SHELBY COUNTY v. UNION &c. BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

worked out that the meaning of the legislature, under the circumstances of that case, was to exempt from further taxation
the shares of stock in the hands of the shareholders. An examination of this case shows that the question of the exemption of both the corporation and the shareholders did not
technically arise, although in the course of his opinion Mr.
Justice Wayne gives an exemption to both, as above quoted.
That case has been the subject of criticism in several instances,
notably in the case of People v. Commissioners,4 Wall. 244,.
and in New Orleans City ee. Co. v. New Orleans, 143 U. S.
195, and cases therein cited. Giving to the Gordon case the
full weight of authority for the point actually decided, it does
not hold that language, such as we have in the case under
consideration, operates to exempt both the capital stock of
the corporation and the shares of stock in the hands of its
shareholders from all taxation beyond that mentioned in the
charter, and we are entirely unwilling to unnecessarily extend
the authority 6f that case so as to cover the question here.
Long after that case was decided this court in many cases, notably that of Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, and People
v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, recognized the separate and
distinct character of the two properties, the capital stock and
the shares thereof in the hands of individual shareholders,
and such separate property in our opinion is strong proof of
the limitation of the exemption to the property which is taxed.
Another case decided in this court is that of Bank v. Tennessee, 104 U. S. 493. That was a case where the questions
arose under this same general statute of exemption. The taxing authorities had taxed the bank on all its real estate, consisting of its banking house, a portion of which only it used
for the transaction of its own business and it rented the balance, and it was taxed also for three other pieces of real estate
bid in by it upon sales under trust deeds to secure indebtedness. The charter provided that the bank might "purchase
and hold a lot of ground for the use of the institution as a
place of. business, and at pleasure sell and exchange the same,
and may hold such real or personal property or estate as may
be conveyed to it to secure debts due the. institution, and may

OCTOBER TER.M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sell and convey the same." The Supreme Court of the State
held that while the bank was not liable to be taxed on that
portion of its building used by it for the transaction of its
business, it was liable for the taxes on the remainder, and also
on the other real estate purchased by it. The bank appealed
from the decree of the state court, claiming an exemption
of the entire property from taxation under its charter. The
State did not appeal, although the decree of the court held a
portion of the property non-taxable. It will thus be seen that
the only question open for review here was, whether the portion actually taxed was exempt, and this court was of the
same opinion as the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and held
that as to the portion of the property not used for banking
purposes, and as .to the other real estate of the bank, it was
not exempt from the payment of a tax thereon. The fact of
the exemption from taxation of that portion of the property
used by the bank in its business seems to have been assumed
without argument or decision by this court. There is nothing
in that case which affords support to the contention here.
Nor is there anything in the case of Tennessee v. Whitworth,
117 U. S.129, tending to show that the court in the case of
Farrington v.Tennessee, 95 U. S.679, held that the exemption
6overed both properties, the corporation and the shares. Mr.
Chief Justice Waite in the Whitworth case, on page 136, said
in speaking of the .Farringtoncdse, that the question was
whether the clause in the charter, there quoted, exempted the
shares in the hands of the stockholders from any further taxation by the State. Hle said: "The court, three Justices dissenting, held that it did, because, as the charter tax was laid
on each share subscribed, the further exemption must necessarily have been of the shares in the hands of the holders,
although the tax as imposed was payable by the corporation.
In all cases of this kind the question is as to the intent of the
legislature, the presumption always being against any surrender of the taxing power." -No comfort can be extracted from
the remarks of the Chief Justice as even tending to show that
the exemption clause covered both the property of the corporation and the shares of stock in the hands of individual
shareholders.

