SPALDING v. DICKINSON.
Names of Counsel.

large discretion in the premises that it will not always be his
absolute duty to exercise the authority with which he is
invested. But if he acts, having authority, his conduct cannot be made the foundation of a suit against him personally
for damages, even if the circumstances show that he is not
disagreeably impressed by the fact that his action injuriously
affects the claims of particular individuals. In the present
case, as we have found, the defendant, in issuing the circular
in question, did not exceed his authority, nor pass the line of
his duty, as Postmaster General. The motive that impelled
him to do that of which the plaintiff complains is, therefore,
wholly imniaterial. If we were to hold that the demurrer
admitted, for the purposes of the trial, that the defendant
acted maliciously, that could not change the law.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia is
Affirmed.
SPALDING v. DICKINSON. Error to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. No. 82, argued with No. 81, ante, 483.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN: The defendant in error succeeded Mr.
Vilas in the office of Postmaster General. The declaration in the
present case is, in all material respects, like that in Spalding v.
Yilas, just decided. For the reasons stated in the opinion in. that
case the judgment is
Affinmed.
Mr. W. Willoughby for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

MATTHEWS v. UNITED STATES.
FRROR TO THE CIMCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 178. Submitted March 3, 189. -Decided

FOR THE

March 16, 1896.

The defendant was indicted for perjury alleged to have been committed
on the 7th of June. The minutes of the stenographer of the testimony,
alleged to be false, were read upon the trial, and they said that the testimony alleged to be false was given on the 6th of June, instead of the
7th. The defendant, being convicted, moved for a new trial upon the
ground that the variance was fatal, which was refused. Held, that such
a variance was not material in this case.
Stenographers' minutes of evidence are not records.

THE plaintiff in error was indicted in the Circuit Court
of the United States. for the Southern District of New York,
for the crime of perjury, alleged to have been committed
upon the trial of an action betweefi the United States and
one John Matthews, impleaded with others. The trial of the
action in which the perjury was alleged to have been committed was had in the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, and Matthews, plaintiff in error, was sworn
upon the trial, and the indictment in this case alleges that
he committed the perjury set forth in the indictment upon
that trial "before the said judge and jury, to wit, on the 7th
day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four, and within the district aforesaid and
within the jurisdiction of this court." For the purpose of
proving the testimony of plaintiff in error, taken upon the
original trial in which the perjury was alleged to have been
committed, and by stipulation of counsel for the parties in
this case, the minutes of the stenographer were read upon
the trial, and from those minutes it appeared that the testimony, alleged to be false, was given by plaintiff in error upon
the 6th instead of the 7th of June. The plaintiff in error
was convicted. His counsel then made a motion for a new
trial and in arrest of judgment, both of which motions were

