OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

over all then filed in that department but not yet examined
and allowed, with a proviso that it is immaterial whether the
claim was ever filed in the department. The antagonism
between the grant and the proviso is fatal to such a construction. The act of March 3, 1885, defines claims not by their
nature but by their status as filed and allowed or simply filed.
And to say that filing is immaterial when filing is the descriptive matter is to destroy the significance of the clause. Full
scope can be given for the operation of these words in section 2 by connecting them with the first jurisdictional clause,
which is a general grant of jurisdiction over all claims for
property of citizens taken or destroyed by Indians in amity
with the United States.
These are the only matters requiring consideration, and no
error appearing in the conclusions reached by the Court of
Claims, its judgment isAjfi~med.

DURLAND

v. UNITED STATES.

SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT' OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 528, 529. Argued October 29, 1895. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 5480, as amended by the act of March 2, 1889,
c. 393, 25 Stat. 873, that "if any person having devised or intending to
. to be effected by either
devise any scheme or artifice to defraud .
opening or intending to open correspondence or communication with any
person, whether resident within or outside the United States, by means
of the Post Office Establishment of the United States, or by inciting such
other person or any person to open communication with the person so
devising or intending, shall, in and for executing such scheme or artifice
or attempting so to do, place or cause to be placed, any letter, packet,
writing, circular, pamphlet, or advertisement, in any post office, branch
post office, or street or hotel letter-box of the United States, to be sent
or delivered by the said Post Office Establishment, or shall take or receive
any such therefrom, such person so misusing the Post Office Establishment shall, upon conviction, be punishable," etc., includes everythipg

DURLAND v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
designed to defraud by representations as to the past or present, or suggestions and promises as to the future; and it was enacted for protecting
the public against all intentional efforts to despoil, and to prevent the
post office from being used to carry them into effect.

The refusal to quash an indictment on motion is not, generally, assignable
for error.
'he omission in an indictment for violating the above act to state the names
of the parties intended to be defrauded, and the names and addresses on
the letters, is satisfied by the allegation, if true, that such names and
addresses are to the jury unknown.
The offence described in the statute is committed when the contriver of a
scheme to defraud, with a view of executing it, deposits letters in the
post office which he thinks may assist in carrying it into effect, whether
they are so .effective or not.
The objection that an indictment is multifarious is presented too late, if
not taken until after the verdict.

THESE cases have so much in common that they may be
considered together. Each is the record of the conviction of
the plaintiff in error in the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania of a violation of section 5480, Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of March 2, 1889,
c. 393, 25 Stat. 873. In neither record is preserved the testimony given on the trial, or the charge to the jury. The only
questions for consideration are those which arise on the indictments. In the first, the indictment charged. that defendant
"did knowingly, wilfully and falsely devise a scheme and artifice to-defraud, that is to say, by divers false pretences and
subtle means and devices to obtain and acquire for himself of
and from divers persons to this grand inquest unknown, a
large sum of money, to wit, the sum of fifty dollars each, and
to cheat and defraud each of the said divers persons thereof
by then and there representing, among other things, that the
Provident Bond and Investment Company would upon the
payment of a certain sum of money, to wit, the sum of ten
dollars, and a further sum of five dollars monthly thereafter,
by each of the said divers persons, issue to each of the said
divers persons a bond in the words and' manner following, to
wit."
Giving a copy of the bond, the indictment proceeded:
"'And that the said bonds would mature in accordance with

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

paragraphs third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth of
said bond hereinbefore set out, and that the redemption value
of the said bond when called and the sum of money payable
therefor to the said divers persons by the said Provident Bond
and Investment Company would be the sum specified and at
the time named, and upon the payments of the sums of money
named in the circular issued by the said Provident Bond and
Investment Company, which is in the words and matter following, to wit:
"A Nut for Lotte-/y Cranks to Crack.
"We give below our graduatory scale of redemption values,
which is a complete refutation of the charge that a i lottery'
element enters into the methods of the -Provident Bond and
InvestmenT Company. It will be observed that a steadily increasing cash value applies to every bond in force from its
issue to redemption. That every bond of equal age has the
same cash value.
"It is a further fact that every bond is non-forfeitable and
interest-bearing, having both ' cash surrender' and loan values.
Where does the lottery element come in?
" Redemption Scale.
"Scale of current redemption values under the current system of tontine investment, showing profit over total cost upon
each $1000 bond from date of issue to face value; $500 bonds,
one half of said amounts, both cost and profit."
After this followed the scale referred to in the last clause,
which, commencing" No. of
months in
force.
1...........
2 ...........
3...........
4...........
5 ...........
6 ...........

Cost to holder,
including
premium.
$15
20
25
30
35
40

00
00
00
00
00
00

Cash paid
by Co. for redemption.

$30
40
50
60

00
00
off
00

Profits over
cost.

$5
10
15
20

00
00
00
00

Per cent
of
profit.

20
33
42.8
50"

DURLAND v: UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

ran up to and included ninety-one months. After the scale
appears the balance of the circular, as follows:
"Such is the legitimate operation of 'the current system
of tontine investment,' of which the Provident Bond and Investment Company is the exponent and its president is the
author.
l.B.N

The basic principle of the above table is copy-

righted. Infringements without due authority of the -author
will be prosecuted."
And then the indictment, in its first count, closed with
these words:
"Whereas in truth and in fact the said John H. Durland,
being then and there the president of the said Provident Bond
and Investment Company, did not intend that the said bonds
would mature -in accordance with paragraphs third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth of the said bond, and that the
redemption value of the said bond when called and the sum
of money payable therefor to the said divers persons by the
said Provident Bond and Investment Company, would be the
sum specified and at the time named and upon the payments
.of the sums of money named in the circular issued by the said
Provident Bond and Investment Company, as he, the said
John I. Durland, then and there well knew, and the said John
HI. Durland intended then and there by said false representations to obtain for his own use the sum of money paid by
.each of the divers persons for said bond, to wit, the sum of
fifty dollars each, which said scheme and artifice to defraud
was to be effected by him, the said John H. Durland, opening
a correspondence and communication with each of the said
divers persons by means of the Post Office Establishment of
the United States and by inciting such divers persons to open
communication with him, the said John H. Durland, so devising and intending; and he, the said John H. Durland, did
heretofore, to wit, upon the day and year aforesaid, so devising and intending in and for executing such scheme and artifice to defraud and attempting so to do, place and cause to be
placed in a post office of the United States at Philadelphia to
be. sent and delivered by the said Post Office Establishment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

divers letters and packets, to wit, twenty letters and circulars,
directed respectively to the said divers persons, the -names and
addresses of whom . are to this grand inquest unknown, contrary to the form of the act of Congress in such case made
and provided and against the peace and dignity of the United
State' of America."
In the second case the indictment charged substantially the,
same scheme to defraud, but specified that the purpose of the
defendant was "to obtain and acquire for himself of and from
another person, to wit, one W. S. Burk, at Chester, Pennsylvania, a large sum of money, to wit, the sum of sixty dollars,
and to cheat and defraud the said W. S. Burk thereof." And
then that "said scheme and artifice to defraud was to be'
effected by him, the said John H. Durland, opening- a correspondence and communication with another person, to wit, the
said W. S. Burk, residing within the United States, to wit, at
Chester, Pennsylvania, by means of the Post Office Establishment of the United States and by inciting the said W. S. Burk
to open communication with him, the said John H. Durland,
so devising and intending; and he, the said John H. Durland,
did heretofore, to wit, upon the day and year aforesaid, so
devising and intending in and for executing such scheme and
artifice to defraud and attempting so to do, place and cause
to be placed a letter in the Post Office Establishment of the
United States, to wit, the post office at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, within the above district, which said letter was then
and there addressed and directed as follows, to wit: ' r. W.
S. Burk, Chester, Pa.,' profert whereof is now made, contrary
to the form of the act of Congress in such case made and provided and against the peace and dignity of the United States
of America."
The bond, a copy of which was in each indictment, is
entitled a "Current-Tontine Investment Option Bond," purported to be issued by the Provident Bond and Investment
Company, whose capital was named as one hundred thousand
dollars, and was a promise on the part of the company to pay
one thousand dollars upon nine conditions; the first being a
monthly payment of $5, failure to make any such monthly

DURLAIND v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

payment working a forfeiture; second, that the company
would retain fifty cents for expenses; of the net remainder,
twenty-five per cent was to b.e carried to a reserve and
seventy-five per cent was to constitute a redemption fund.
The third and fourth conditions were as follows:
"Third. (a.) This bond will mature when the net monthly
instalments (exclusive of expense fund) together with its
apportionment of reserve credits, equal its face value. (b.) It
may be redeemed by the company at any time before its
maturity, at any time after three regular monthly payments
have been made herefor, the holder hereby agreeing to surrender the same whenever called, upon receipt of its then
redemption value."
"Fourth. The redemption value of this bond when called
will be the sum specified under the ' Table of Current Redemption Values' printed on the back hereof, according with the
number of months it has been in force at time of call."
The table mentioned in this fourth specification is the
redemption scale which appeared in the circular heretofore
referred to. The remaining stipulations were in reference to
calls, special redemptions, conversion into certificates, return
in case of death of all payments made to the redemption and
reserve fund, and assignments. Section 5480, as amended by
the act of March 2, 1889, so far as material to this case, reads
as follows:
"If any person having devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud

.

.

.

to be effected by either

opening or intending to open correspondence or communication with any person, whether resident within or outside the
United States, by means of the Post Office Establishment of
the United States, or by inciting such other person or any
person to open communication with the person so devising or
intending, shall, in and for executing such scheme or artifice
or attempting so to do, place or cause to be placed, any letter,
packet, writing, circular, pamphlet or advertisement, in any
post office, branch post office, or street or hotel letter-box of
the United States, to be sent or delivered by the said Post
Office Establishment, or shall take or receive any such there-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

from, such person so misusing the Post Office Establishment
shall, upon conviction, be punishable," etc.
.Mr. James .M. Beck and -Mr.llamjpton Z. Carson for plaintiff in error. Mrf'. William F. Harrity was on their brief.
ir. Assistant Attorney General Whitney and .Mr.John L.
Thomas, Assistant Attorney General for the Post Office Department, for the defendants in error.
M . JUSTICE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Inasmuch as the testimony has not been preserved, we must
assume that it was sufficient to substantiate the charges in the
indictments; that this was a scheme and artifice to defraud,
and that the defendant did not intend that the bonds should
mature, or that although money was received any should be
returned, but that it should be appropriated to his own use.
In other words, he was trying to entrap the unwary, and to
secure money from them on the faith of a scheme glittering
and attractive in form, yet unreal and deceptive in fact, and
known to him to be such. So far as the moral element is
concerned it must be taken that the defendant's guilt was
established.
But the contention on his part is that the statute reaches
only such cases as, at common law, would come within the
definition of "false pretences," in order to make out which
there must be a misrepresentation as to some existing fact
and not a mere promise as to the future. It is urged that
there was no misrepresentation as to the existence or solvency
of the corporation,, the Provident Bond and Investment Company, or as to its modes of doing business, no suggestion that
it failed to issue its bonds to any and every one advancing the
required dues, or that its promise of payment according to the
conditions named in the bond was not a valid and binding
promise. And then, as counsel say in their brief, "it [the
indictment] discloses on its face absolutely nothing but an in-

DURLAND v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tention to commit a violation of a contract.

If there be one

principle of criminal law that is absolutely settled by an overwhelming avalanche of authority it is that fraud either in the
civil courts or in the criminal courts must be the misrepresentation of an existing or a past fact, and cannot consist of
the mere intention not to carry out a contract in the future."
The question thus presented is one of vital importance, and
underlies both cases. We cannot agree with counsel. The
statute is broader than is claimed. Its letter shows this:
"Any scheme or artifice to defraud." Some schemes may be
promoted through mere representations and promises as to the
future, yet are none the less schemes and artifices to defraud.
Punishment because of the fraudulent purpose is no new thing.
As said by Mr. Justice Brown, in Evans v. United States, 153
U. S. 584), 592, "if a person buy goods on credit in good faith,
knowing that he is unable to pay for them at the time, but
believing that he will be able to pay for them at the maturity
of the bill, he is guilty of no offence even if he be disappointed
in making such payment. But if he purchases them, knowing
that he will not be able to pay for them, and with an intent
to cheat the vendor, this is a plain fraud, and made punish-able as such by statutes in many of the States."
But beyond the letter of the statute is the evil sought to be
remedied, which is always significant in determining the
meaning. It is common knowledge that nothing is more
alluring than the expectation of receiving large returns on
small investments. Eagerness to take the chances of large
gains lies at the foundation of all lottery schemes, and, even
when the matter of chance is eliminated, any scheme or plan
which holds out the prospect of receiving more than is parted
with appeals to the cupidity of all.
In the light of this the statute must be read, and so read it
includes everything designed to defraud by representations as
to the past or present, or suggestions and promises as to the
future. The significant fact is the intent and purpose. The
question presented by this indictment to the jury was not, as
counsel insist, whether the business scheme suggested in this
bond was practicable or not. If the testimony had shown

OCTOBER TERA, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that this Provident company, and the defendant, as its president, had entered in good faith upon that business, believing
that out of the moneys received they could by investment or
otherwise make enough to justify the promised returns, no
conviction could be sustained, no matter how visionary might
seem the scheme. The charge is that in putting forth this
scheme it was not the intent of the defendant to make an
honest effort for its success, but that he resorted to this form
and pretence of a bond without a thought that he or the company would ever make good its promises. It was with the
purpose of protecting the public against all such intentional
efforts to despoil, and to prevent the post office from being
used to carry them into effect, that this statute was passed;
and it would strip it of value to confine it to such cases as disclose an. actual misrepresentation as to some existing fact, and
exclude those in which is only the allurement of a specious
and glittering promise. This, which is the principal contention of counsel, must be overruled.
The second, which applies more fully to the first than the
second case, is that the indictment is defective in that it avers
that in pursuance of this fraudulent scheme twenty letters and
circulars were deposited in the post office, without in any way
specifying the character of those letters or circulars. It is contended that the indictment should either recite the letters, or at
least by direct statements show their purpose and character,
and that the names and addresses of the parties to whom the
letters were sent should also be stated, so as to inform the defendant as to what parts of his correspondence the charge of
crime is made, and also to enable him to defend himself against
a subsequent indictment for the same transaction. These objections were raised by a motion to quash the indictment, but
such a motion is ordinarily addressed to the discretion of the
court, and a refusal to quash is not, generally, assignable for
error. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 282.
Further, the omission to state the names of the parties intended to be defrauded and the names and addresses on the
letters is satisfied by the allegation, if true, that such names
and addresses are to the grand jury unknown. And'parol evi-

DURLAND

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

deuce is always admissible, and sometimes necessary, to establish the defence of prior conviction or acquittal. Dunbar v.
United States, 156 U. S. 185, 191.
It may be conceded that the indictment would be more satisfactory if it gave more full information as to the contents or
import of these letters, so that upon its face it would be apparent that they were calculated or designed to aid in carrying into execution the scheme to defraud. But still we think
that as it stands it must be held to be sufficient. There was
a partial identification of the letters by the time and place of
mailing, and the charge was that defendant "intending in and
for executing such scheme and artifice to defraud and attempting so to do, placed and caused to be placed in the post office,"
etc. This, it will be noticed, is substantially the language of
the statute. If defendant had desired further specification
and- identification, he could have secured it by demanding a
bill of particulars. Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S. 29.
We do not wish to be understood as intimating that in
order to constitute the offence it must be shown that the letters so mailed were of a nature calculated to be effective in
carrying out the fraudulent scheme. It is enough if, having
devised a scheme to defraud, the defendant with a view of
executing it deposits in the post office letters, which he thinks
may assist in carrying it into effect, although in the judgment
of the jury they may be absolutely ineffective therefor.
A final objection is that the indictment in the first case is
multifarious because, as claimed, it includes many offences,
and In re -enry, 123 U. S. 372, 374, is cited as authority
therefor, in which, in reference to a case of this nature, Chief
Justice Waite said: "Each letter so taken out or put in constitutes a separate and distinct violation of the act." This
objection was not tken until after the verdict, and hence, if
of any validity, was presented too late. Connors v. United
States, 158 U. S. 408, 411.
These are the only objections which require consideration,
and, finding no error in them, the judgment in each of these
cases is

Affirmed.

