PLANTERS' INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.

taxation than that provided for in the charter while the company was doing business as such insurance company. The
judgment could, therefore, not be an estoppel or operate in
any manner as a bar to the maintenance of this action, based
upon facts of a totally different nature, and arising long after
the judgment was obtained in the former action.
The judgment must, therefore, be
Afirmed.

MEMPHIs CITy BANx v. TENNESSE AND SHELBY- COUNTY, NO.
675, by stipulation, is to abide the event of foregoing case.

PLANTERS' INSURANCE COMPANY v. TENNESSEE
FOR THE USE OF MEMPHIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 678. Argued January 20, 21, 22, 1896.-

Decided Mareb 2, 1896.

In 1860 the legislature of Tennessee incorporated the Energetic Insurance
Company of Nashville, with a proviso in the charter limiting its taxation to one quarter of one per cent on its capital stock. In 1870 a new
constitution was adopted by the State, forbidding such limitation. In
1884 the surviving corporators of the Energetic Insurance Company,
which had not then been organized, met and organized the company
under that name. In 1885 the name of the company was changed by
legislative act to Planters' Fire and Marine Insurance Company, and it
was authorized to remove its situs to Memphis, which it did, and increased its capital stock. Since that time it has regularly paid its taxes at
the rate named in the act of 1860. In a suit to recover taxes at the regular tax rate, which was in excess of the statutory limitation: Held,
that the-organization of the corporation having been made subsequently
to the adoption of the constitution of 1870, and of its coming into force,
the orporation was subject to the provisions of that instrument regulatIng taxation.

Tins was another bill filed by the State of Tennessee for
the use of the city of Memphis against defendants below to
VOL. CL -13

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

recover taxes alleged to be due on the capital stock or shares
of stock in the corporation plaintiff in error. The Supreme
Court of Tennessee gave judgment in favor of the plaintiff
below, and the plaintiffs in error have brought the case here
for review. The case was tried upon an agreed statement of
facts, among which are the following: On the 24th day of
March, 1860, the- Energetic Insurance Company of Nashville
was incorporated. By the sixtieth section of that charter it
was provided " that said company shall pay to the State an
annual tax or bonus of one fourth of one per cent on each
share of the capital stock subscribed, which shall be in lieu of
all other taxes." On the 10th day of December, 1866, the
Planters' Insurance Company was incorporated, and thereafter it conducted a generallire insurance business in the city
of Memphis up to the year 1885. No immunity from taxation was granted that company. On the 27th day of March,
1885, the name of the Energetic Insurance Company was
changed to the Planters' and Marine Insurance Company of
Memphis, and the company was authorized to remove its 8itus
and office to the then taxing district of Shelby County, now
the city of Memphis.
From the time of the passage of the act providing for the
incorporation of the Energetic Insurance Company in 1860
down to the 30th day of January, 1884, no action was taken
by the incorporators named in the act towards organizing a
corporation accepting the charter. On the last named date
a meeting was had of some of the incorporators, named in
the act, and the first minutes which can be found in the office
of the defendant corporation, or which it can produce, are
the minutes of the incorporators, stockholders, and directors
held on that day. Six individuals were named in the original
charter as incorporators, together with such other persons as
might thereafter be duly associated with them, and at this
meeting of the stockholders in January, 1884, four of them
were present, and the other incorporators mentioned in the
charter were dead at that time. It appears from those minutes that, pursuant to the terms and stipulations of an act
of the legislature of Tennessee, a meeting was that day -

PLANTERS' INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSE_.

195

Statement of the Case.

January 30, 1884-called of the incorporators of the Energetic Insurance Company of Nashville, and in response to
that call four of such incorporators appeared. A moderator
was selected and books were opened, or ordered to be opened,
for subscriptions to the capital stock of the company, and it
was resolved that the first directory should consist of five
persons. Stock was then subscribed by the various persons,
amounting to $100,000, and the stockholders thus subscribing,
being present either in person or by proxy, it was unanimously agreed by the incorporators present that the stockholders should go into an election for directors, and that
the incorporators as such should adjourn. Thereupon, on the
same day, it appears from the minutes that a meeting of the
stockholders of the company was held and a board of directors elected, and the stockholders then voted to call a meeting
of the directors for the same day. A meeting of the directors
was then held, and a president, secretary, and treasurer of the
company elected, and from that day (January, 1884) the organization. of the corporation plaintiff in error was regular
and continuous.
After its name was changed by the legislature to the Planters' Fire and Marine Insurance Company, and it was authorized to remove its situs to the city of Memphis, its stock was
increased to $150,000 and it removed its place of business to
Memphis, and bought out the assets and property of the
Planters' Insurance Company and reinsured its risks. Since
that time the defendant has regularly paid the commutation
tax of one fourth of one per cent on each share of capital stock
subscribed to the State of Tennessee, pursuant to the terms
of the charter, up to the present time. By virtue of the general revenue laws of the State, the corporation, plaintiff in
error, or its stockholders, have been taxed upon the capital
stock or shares of stock at a greater rate than that provided
for in the sixtieth section of the act of incorporation, and the
plaintiffs in error claim that by virtue of that sixtieth section
they are entitled to exemption from all taxation, except that
therein provided for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. T. A3. Turley, (with whom was -Mr.1. E. Wright on
the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. S. P. Malker, (with whom were Mr. 0. T.Metcalf
and -Mr.F. T. Edmondson on the brief,) for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHA,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The claim set up by plaintiffs in error is that the insurance
company was duly incorporated as the Energetic Insurance
Company of Nashville, under the act passed March 24, 1860 ;
that it is the same company as therein incorporated, and entitled to all the benefits and immunities, among them that of
exemption from taxation granted by that charter.
The defendants in error deny that claim, and assert the
right to tax by virtue of the general revenue laws of the
State. They assert that by reason of the failure to accept
the charter and organize thereunder until after the lapse of
24 years the corporation did not acquire the right of exemption provided for in the sixtieth section of the charter, because
at the time the company was organized in 1884 the constitution of the State of Tennessee, adopted in 1870, was in full
force, and by that constitution any exemption of the property
of the corporation, its capital stock or its shares of stock, was
prohibited.
The plaintiffs in error answer that they are either a corporation organized under that charter or else there is no corporation, and the individuals assuming to act as such should be
sued in their individual capacity, and if liable at all for any
taxes whatever, they must be liable as individuals only. They
further say that the State by its action herein recognizes them
as a corporation, and if a corporation at all, they are such
under the original charter above mentioned, and if they be a
corporation under such charter, they are entitled to all the
rights and privileges and immunities granted by that charter
as a whole, and that they cannot be prosecuted as a corporation under that charter for the purpose of compelling them to

PLANTERS' INSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.

197

Opinion of the Court.

pay taxes, and, at the same time, be denied the right of exemption from such payment granted by that sixtieth section. They
also allege that this action of the State is a collateral attack
upon their charter by denying their immunity from taxation
given by its sixtieth section, and therefore calling in question
its existence as a corporation, and an action of that kind can
only be maintained by the State by means of a quo warranto,
either against the corporation itself for the exercise of powers
not granted it, or against the individuals for assuming to exercise the corporate powers.
For the purpose of effecting a dissolution of a corporation
grounded upon some alleged forfeiture of its rights and
powers, the State must act through its attorney general and
by action in the nature of quo warranto. This is not such an
action, and the dissolution of the corporation is not its object.
The State in effect so far recognizes it as a corporation as to
demand payment of taxes on its capital stock, or on its shares
of stock, and when as a defence to that action the corporation
plaintiff in error, or its stockholders, set up its alleged right of
exemption under the sixtieth section of the charter, the answer
of the State is, you are not entitled to that exemption, because
at the time your charter was accepted, 24 years after it was
granted by the legislature, the constitution of the State prevented the grant of any exemption such as is claimed by you,
to which the plaintiffs in error rejoin, that in this action you
cannot look at the time when the charter was accepted, but
as the corporation is acting under the original charter, the
sixtieth section remains in full force.
We think that even in this action it is proper for the State
to inquire as to the time of the acceptance of the charter for
the purpose of determining what powers were actually granted.
If the charter had been accepted and the individuals organized
under it prior to the adoption of the constitution of 1870, then
the exemption might have gone with it; but we think it entirely possible to hold that by the acceptance of the charter,
assuming it to have been within a reasonable time, but after
the constitution was adopted, such acceptance (while subsequently recognized by the legislature in permitting it to

