GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Statement of the Case.

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
ERROR TO

THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

ERRORS OF THE STATE OF

CONNECTICUT.
No. BT. Argued November 22, 1S95. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

The provision in the General Statutes of Connecticut, (Revision of 1888,
ยง 2546,) that "no person shall at any time kill any woodcock, iffied
grouse or quail for the purpose of conveying the same beyond the limits
of this State; or shall transport or have in possession, with intent to
procure the transportation beyond said limits, any of such birds killed
within this State," is legislation which It is within the constitutional
power of the legislature of the State to enact.

THE General Statutes of the State of Connecticut provide
(Sec. 2530, Revision of 1888):
"Every person who shall buy, sell, expose for sale, or have
in his possession for any purpose, or who shall hunt, pursue,
kill, destroy or attempt to kill any woodcock, quail, ruffled
grouse, called partridge, or gray squirrel, between, the first
day of January and the first day of October, the killing or
having in possession of each bird or squirrel to be deemed
a separate offence,

.

.

shall be fined not more than

twenty-five dollars. .
It is further by the statute of the same State provided (Sec.
2546):
"No person shall at any time kill any woodcock, ruffled
grouse or quail for the purpose of conveying the same beyond
the limits of this State; or shall transport or have in possession, with intent to procure. the transportation beyond said
limits, any of such birds killed within this State. The reception by any person within this State of any such bird or birds
for shipment to a point without the State shall be primafacie
evidence that said bird or birds were killed within the State
for the purpose of carrying the same beyond its limits."
An information was filed against the plaintiff in error in
the police court of New London, Connecticut, charging him

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

with, on the 19th day of October, 1889, unlawfully receiving
and having in his possession, with the wrongful and unlawful
intent to procure the transportation beyond the limits of the
State certain woodcock, ruffled grouse and quail killed within
this State after the first day of October, 1889. The trial of
the charge resulted in the conviction of the defendant and
the imposing of a fine upon him. Thereupon the case was
taken by appeal to the criminal court of Common Pleas. In
that court the defendant demurred to the information on the
ground, among others, that the statute upon which that prosecution was based violated the Constitution
the United
States.
The demurrer being overruled, and the defendant declining
to answer over, he was adjudged guilty and condemned to pay
a fine and costs, and to stand committed until he had complied with the judgment. An appeal was prosecuted to the
Supreme Court of Errors of the State. The defendant on
the appeal assigned the following errors:
"The court erred "1st. In holding that the allegations contained in the complaint constitute an offence in law.
" 2d. In holding that said complaint was insufficient in the
law without an allegation that.the birds therein mentioned
were killed in this State for the purpose of conveying the
same beyond the limits of this State.
"3d. In refusing to hold that so much of section 2546 of
the General Statutes, under which this complaint is brought,
as may be construed to forbid the transportation from this
State of the birds therein described, lawfully killed and permitted"by the laws of the State to become the subject of
traffic and commerce, is unconstitutional and void.
"14th. In reffising to hold that so much of said section as
may be construed to forbid the receiving and having in possession, with intent to procure the transportation thereof to
another State, birds therein described, lawfully killed and permitted by the laws of this State to become the subject of
traffic and commerce, is unconstitutional and void.
"5th. In holding that the defendant is guilty of an offence
-of

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

under said section if such birds vere lawfully killed in this
State and were bought by the defendant in the markets of
this State as articles of property, merchandise and commerce,
and had begun to move as an article of interstate commerce.
"6th. In not rendering judgment for defendant."
In the Supreme Court the conviction was afflined. The.
case is reported in 61 Connecticut, 144. To this judgment of
affirmance this writ of error is prosecuted.
MX.

HadlaiA. Hull for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Solnrno- Lucas for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the statutes of the State of Connecticut, referred -to in
the statement of facts, the open season for the game birds
mentioned therein was from the first day of October to the
first day of January.
The birds which the defendant was
charged with unlawfully having in his possession on the 19th
of October, for the purpose of unlawful transportation beyond
the State, were alleged to have been killed within the State
after the first day of October. They were, therefore, killed
during the open season. There was no charge that they had
been unlawfully killed for the purpose of being transported
outside of the State. The offence, therefore, charged was the
possession of game birds, for the purpose of transporting them
beyond the State, which birds had been lawfully killed within
the State. The .court of last resort of the State held, in interpreting the statute already cited, by the light afforded by previous enactments, that one of its objects was to forbid the
killing of birds within the State during the open season for
the purpose of transporting them beyond the State, and also
additionally as a distinct offence to punish the having in possession, for the purpose of transportation beyond the State,
birds lawfully killed within the State. The court found that
the information did not charge the first of these offences, and
therefore that the sole offence which it covered was the lat-

OCTOBER TERMN, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ter. It then decided that the State had power to make it
an offence to have in possession, for the purpose of transportation beyond the State, birds which had been lawfully killed
within the State during the open season, and that the statute
in creating, this offence did not violate the interstate commerce clause of the Cbnstitution of the United States. The
correctness of this latter ruling is the question for review.
In other words, the sole issue which the case presents is, was it
lawful under the Constitution of the United States (section 8,
Article I) for the State of Connecticut to allow the killing
of birds within the State during a designated open season, to
allow such birds, when so killed, to be used, to be sold and to
be bought for use within the State, and yet to forbid their,
transportation beyond the State? Or, to statd it otherwise, had
the State of Connecticut the power to regulate the killing of
game within her borders so as to confine its use t o the limits
of the State and forbid its transmission outside of the State?
In considering this inquiry we of course accept the interpretation affixed to the state statute by the court of last
resort of the State. The solution of the question involves a
consideration of the nature of the property in game and the
authority which the State had a right lawfully to exercise in
relation thereto.
From the earliest traditions the right to reduce animals
ferm naturw to possession has been subject to the control of
the law-giving power.
The writer of a learned article in the Repertoire of the
Journal du Palais mentions the fact that the law of Athens
forbade the killing of game, (Rep. Gen. J. P. vol. 5, p. 307,)
and Merlin says (R6pertoire de Jurisprudence, vol. 4, p. 128)
that "Solon, seeing that the Athenians gave themselves up to
the chase, to the neglect of the mechanical arts, forbade the
killing of game.
Among other subdivisions, things were classified by the
Roman law into public and common. The latter embraced
animals ferm naturw, which, having no owner, Were considered as belonging in common to all the citizens of the State.
After pointing out the foregoing subdivision, the Digest says:

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

"There are things which we acquire the dominion of, as by
the law of nature, which the light of natural reason causes
every man to see, and others we acquire by the civil law, that
is to say, by methods which belong to the government. As
the law of nature is more ancient, because it took birth with
the human race, it is proper to speak first of the latter.
1. Thus, all the animals which can be taken upon the earth,
in the sea, or in the air, that is to say, wild animals, belong to
those who take them.

.

.

.

Because that which belongs to

nobody is acquired by the natural law by the person who first
possesses it. We do not distinguish the acquisition of these
wild beasts and birds by whether one has captured them on
his own property or on the property of another; but he who
wishes to enter-into the property of another to hunt can be
readily prevented if the owner knows his purpose to do so."
Digest, Book 41, Tit. 1, De Adquir. Rer. Dom.
No restriction, it would hence seem, was placed by the Roman law upon the power of the individual to reduce game, of
which he was the owner in common with other citizens, to possession, although the Institutes of Justinian recognized the
right of an owner of land to forbid another from killing game
on his property, as indeed this right was impliedly admitted
by the Digest in the passage just cited. Institutes, Book 2,
Tit. 1, s. 12.
This inhibition was, however, rather a recognition of the
right of ownership in land than an exercise by the State of
its undoubted authority to control the taking and use of that
which belonged to no one in particular, but was common to
all. In the feudal as well as the ancient law of the continent of Europe, in all countries, the right to acquire animals fer6 naturw by possession was recognized as being
subject to the governmental authority and under its power,
not only as a matter of regulation, but also of absolute
control. Merlin, ubi. sup. mentions the fact that, although
tradition indicates that from the earliest day in France,
every citizen had a right to reduce a part of the common
property in game to ownership by possession, yet it was also
true that as early as the Salic law that right was regu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lated in certain particulars. Pothier in his treatise on Property speaks as follows:
"In France, as well as in all other civilized countries of
Europe, the civil law has restrained the liberty which the pure
law of nature gave to every one to capture animals who,
being in naturali laxitate, belong to no person in particular.
The sovereigns have reserved to themselves, and to those to
whom they judge proper to transmit it, the right to hunt all
game, and have forbidden hunting to other persons. Some
ancient doctors have doubted if sovereigns had the right to
reserve hunting to themselves and to forbid it to their subjects. They contend that as God has given to man dominion
over the beasts, the prince had no authority to deprive all his
subjects of a right which God had given them. The natural
law, say they, permitted hunting to each individual. The
civil law which forbids it is contrary to the natural law and
exceeds, consequently, the power of the legislator, who, being
himself submitted to the natural law, can ordain nothing contrary to that law. It is easy to reply to these objections.
From the fact that God has given to human kind dominion
over wild beasts, it does not follow that each individual of the
human race should be permitted to exercise this dominion.
The civil law it is said cannot be contrary to the natural law.
This is true as regards those things which the natural law
commands or which it forbids; but the civil law can restrict
that which the natural law only permits. The greater part of
all civil laws are nothing but restrictions on those things which
the natural law would otherwise permit. It is for this reason,
although by the pure law of nature, hunting was permitted to
each individual, the prince had the right to reserve it in favor
of certain persons and forbid it to others. Pothier, Trait6 du
Droit de PropritY, Nos. 27-28.
"The right belongs to the king to hunt in his dominion;
his quality of sovereign gives him the authority to take possession above all others of the things which belong to no one,
such as wild animals; the lords and those who have a right
to hunt hold such right but from his permission, and he can
affix to this permission such restrictions and modifications as
may seem to him good." No. 32.

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court

In tracing the origin of the classification of animals ferw
naturw, as things common, Pothier moreover says:
"The first of mankind had in common all those things
which God had given to the human race. This community
was not a positive community of interest, like that which
exists between several persons who have the ownership of a
thing in which each has his particular portion. It was a
community, which those who have written on this subject
have called a negative community, which resulted from the
fact that those things which were common to all belonged no
more to one than to the others, and hence no one could prevent another from taking of these common things that portion
which he judged necessary in order to subserve his wants.
Whilst he was using them others could not disturb him, but
when he had ceased to use them, if they were not things which
were consumed by the fact of use, the things immediately
reentered into the negative community, and another could
use them. The human race having multiplied, men partitioned among themselves the earth and the greater part of
those things which were on its surface. That which fell to
each one among them commenced to belong to him in private ownership, and this process is the origin of the right of
property. Some things, however, did not enter into this division, and remain therefore to this day in the condition of the
ancient and negative community." No. 21.
Referring to those things which remain common, or in
what he qualified as the negative community, this great writer
says:
"These things are those which the jurisconsults called 7es
communes. Marcien refers to several kinds - the air, the
water which runs in the rivers, the sea and its shores.
As regards wild animals, ferm naturce, they have remained in
the ancient state .of negative community."
In both the works of Merlin and Pothier, ubi sup., will be
found a full reference to the history of the varying control
exercised by the law-giving power over the right of a citizen
to acquire a qualified ownership in animals, ferm natruv, evidenced by the regulation thereof by the Salic law, already

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to, exemplified by the legislation of Charlemagne,
and continuing through all vicissitudes of governmental
authority. This unbroken line of law and precedent is
summed up by the provisions of the Napoleon Code, which
declare (arts. 714, 715): "There are things which belong to
no one, and the use of which is common to all. Police regulations direct the manner in which they may be enjoyed.
The faculty of hunting and fishing is also regulated by special
laws." Like recognition of the fundaiiental principle upon
which the property in game rests has led to similar history
and identical results in the common law of Germany, in the
law of Austria, Italy, and, indeed, it may be safely said in
the law of all the countries of Europe. Saint Joseph Concordance, vol. 1, p. 68.
The common law of England also based property in game
upon the principle of common ownership, and therefore treated
it as subject to governmental authority.
Blackstone, whilst pointing out the distinction between
things private and those which are common, rests the right
,of an individual to reduce a part of this common property to
possession, and thus acquire a qualified ownership in it, on no
other or different principle from that upon which the civilians
based such right. 2 Bi. Com. 1 and 12.
Referring especially to the common ownership of game, he
says:
"But after all, there are some few things which, notwithstanding the general introduction and continuance of property,
must still unavoidably remain in common, being such wherein
nothing but an usufructuary property is capable of being had;
and therefore they still belong to the first occupant during
the time he holds possession of them and no longer. Such
(among others) are the elements of light, air and water, which
a man may occupy by means of his windows, his gardens, his
mills and other conveniences; such also are the generality of
those animals which are said to be ferc naturw or of a wild
and untamable disposition, which any man may seize upon
and keep for his own use or pleasure." 2 B1. Com. 14.
"A man may lastly have a qualified property in animals

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

farm naturm, propter prilegium, that is, he may have the

privilege of hunting, taking and killing them in exclusion of
other persons. Here he has a transient property in these animals usually called game so long as they continue within his
liberty, and may restrain any stranger from taking them
therein; but the instant they depart into another liberty, this
qualified property ceases.

.

.

.

A man can have no abso-

lute permanent property in these, as he may in the earth and
land; since these are of a vague and fugitive nature, and
therefore can admit only of a precarious and qualified ownership, which lasts so long as they are in actual use and occupation, but no longer." 2 Bl. Com. 394.
In stating the existence and scope of the royal prerogative,
Blackstone further says:
"There still remains another species of prerogative property,
founded upon a very different principle from any that have
been mentioned before; the property of such animals, ferm
natu.a, as are known by the denomination of game, with the
right of pursuing, taking and destroying them; which is
vested in the king alone and from him derived to such of his
subjects as have received the grants of a chase, a park, a free
warren or free fishery.

.

.

.

In the first place then, we

have already shown, and indeed it cannot be denied, that by
the law of nature every man from the prince to the peasant
has an equal right of pursuing and taking to his own use all
such creatures as areferm nature,and, therefore, the property
of nobody, but liable to be seized by the first occupant, and
so it was held by the imperial law even so late as Justinian's
time.

.

.

But it follows from the very end and constitu-

tion of society that this natural right as well as many others
belonging to a man as an individual may be restrained by
positive laws enacted for reasons of state or for the supposed
benefit of the community." 2 Bl. Com. 410.
The practice of the government of England from the earliest
time to the present has put into execution the auth9rity to
control and regulate the taking of game.
Undoubtedly this attribute of government to control the
taking of animalsferm naturce, which was thus recognized and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

enforced by the common law of England, was vested in the
colonial governments, where not denied by their charters, or
in conflict with grants of the royal prerogative. It is also
certain that the power which the colonies thus possessed
passed to the States with the separation from the mother
country, and remains in them at the present day, in so far as
its exercise may be not incompatible with, or restrained by,
the rights conveyed to the Federal government by the Constitution. Kent, in his Commentaries, states the ownership of
animalsferm nature to be only that of a qualified property.
2 Kent Com. 347. In most of the States laws have been
passed for the protection and preservation of game. We have
been referred to no case where the power to so legislate has
been questioned, although the books contain cases involving
controversies as to the meaning of some of the statutes.
Commonwealth v. Hall, 128 Mass. 410; Commonwealth v.
Wilkinson, 139 Penn. St. 304; People v. O'NVeil, 71 Michigan,
325. There are also cases where the validity of some particular method of enforcement provided in some of the statutes
has been drawn in question. Kansas v. Saunders, 19 Kansas,
127; Territory v. Evans, 2 Idaho, 634.
The adjudicated cases recognizing the right of the States
to control and regulate the common property in game are
numerous. In .lcCrady v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 395, the power
of the State of Virginia to prohibit citizens of other States
from planting oysters within the tide waters of that State was
upheld by this court. In lanchester v. Massachusetts, 139
U. S. 24, the authority of the State of Massachusetts to control and regulate the catching of fish within the bays of that
State was also maintained. See also Phelps v. Racey, 60 N. Y.
10 ; .Magnerv. People, 97 Illinois, 320 ; American Express Co.,
v. People, 133 Illinois, 649; State v. Northern Pacific Express Co., 58 Minnesota, 403; State v. Rodman, 58 Minnesota,
393; Exparte MAaier, 103 California, 476; Organ v. State, 56
Arkansas, 267, 270; Allen v. Wyckoff, 48 N. J. Law, 90, 93;
Roth v. State, 51 Ohio St. 209; Gentile v. State, 29 Indiana, 409,
415 ; Stat v. Farrell, 23 Mo. App. 176, and cases there cited;
State v. Saunders, ubi sup. ; Territory v. Evans, ubi sup.

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

Whilst the fundamental principles upon which the common
property in game rests have undergone no change, the development of free institutions has led to the recognition of the fact
that the power or control lodged in the State, resulting from
this common ownership, is to be exercised, like all other powers
of government, as a trust for the benefit of the people, and not
as a prerogative for the advantage of the government, as distinct from the people, or for the benefit of private individuals
as distinguished from the public good. Therefore, for the
purpose of exercising this power, the State, as held by this
court in Martin v. Waddet, 16 Pet. 4:10, represents its people,
and the ownership is that of the people in their united sovereignty. The common ownership, and its resulting responsibility in the State, is thus stated in a. well considered opinion
of the Supreme Court of California:
"The wild game within a State belongs to the people in
their collective sovereign capacity. It is not the subject of
private ownership except in so far as the people may elect to
make it so; and they may, if they see fit, absolutely prohibit
the taking of it, or traffic and commerce in it, if it is deemed
necessary for the protection or preservation of the public
good." Exparte Maier, ubi sup.
The same view has been expressed by the Supreme Court
of Minnesota, as follows:
"We take it to be the correct doctrine in this country, that
the ownership of wild animals, so far as they are capable of
ownership, is in the State, not as a proprietor but in its sovereign capacity as the representative and for the benefit of all
its people in common." State v. Rodman, ubi sup.
The foregoing analysis of the principles upon which alone
rests the right of an individual to acquire a qualified owner,
ship in game, and the power of the State, deduced therefrom,
to control such ownership for the common benefit, clearly demonstrates the validity of the statute of the State of Connecticut here in controversy. The sole consequence of the provision forbidding the transportation of game, killed within the
State, beyond the State, is to confine the use of such game to
those who own-it, the people of that State. The proposition
VOL. CLxi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that the State may not forbid carrying it beyond her limits
involves, therefore, the contention that a State cannot allow
its own people the enjoyment of the benefits of the property
belonging to them in common, without at the same time permitting the citizens of other States to participate in that
which they do not own. It was said in the discussion at
bar, although it be conceded that the State has an absolute
right to control and regulate the killing of game as its judgment deems best in the interest of its people, inasmuch as the
State has here chosen to allow the people within her borders to
take game, to dispose of it, and thus cause it to become an object of State commerce, as a resulting necessity such property
has become the subject of interstate commerce, and is hence
controlled by the provisions of article 1, section 8, of the Constitution of the United States. But the errors which this
argument involves are manifest. It presupposes that where
the killing of game and its sale within the State is allowed,
that it thereby becomes commerce in the legal meaning of
that Word. In view of the authority of the State to affix conditions to the killing and sale of game, predicated as is this
power on the peculiar nature of such property and its common ownership by all the citizens of the State, it may well be
doubted whether commerce is created by an authority given
by a State to reduce game within its borders to possession,
provided such game be not taken, when killed, without the
jurisdiction of the State. The common ownership imports
the right to keep the property, if the sovereign so chooses,
always within its jurisdiction for every purpose. The qualification which forbids its removal from the State necessarily
entered into and formed part of every transaction on the subject, and deprived the mere sale or exchange of these articles
of that element of freedom of contract and of full ownership
which is an essential attribute of commerce. Passing, however, as we do, the decision of this question, and granting that
the dealing in game killed within the State, under the provision in question, created internal State commerce, it does not
follow that such internal commerce became necessarily the
subject-matter of interstate commerce, and therefore under the

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court

control of the Constitution of the United States. The distinction between internal and external commerce and interstate commerce is marked, and has always been recognized by
this court. In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 194, Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall said:
"It is not intended to say that these words comprehend
that commerce, which is completely internal, which is carried
on between man and man in a State, or between different
parts of the same State, and which does not extend to or
affect other States. Such a power would be inconvenient an(I
is certainly unnecessary.
"Comprehensive as the word ' among' is, it may very properly be restricted to that commerce which concerns more States
than one. The phrase is not one which would probably have
been selected to indicate the completely interior traffic of a
State, because it is not an apt phrase for that purpose; and
the enumeration of the particular classes of commerce to
which the power was to be extended would not have been
made, had the intention been to extend the power to every
description. The enumeration presupposes something not
enumerated; and that something, if we regard the language
or the subject of the sentence, must be the exclusively internal commerce of the State. The genius and character of the
whole government seem to be that its action is to be applied
to all the external concerns of the nation, and to those internal concerns which affect the States generally, but not to those
which are completely within a particular State, which do not
affect other states, and with which it is not necessary to interfere, for the purpose of executing some of the general powers
of the government. The completely internal commerce of
a State, then, may be considered as reserved for the State
itself."
So, again, in The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 564, this court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Field, said:
"There is undoubtedly an internal commerce which is subject to the control of the States. The power delegated to
Congress is limited, to commerce 'among the several States,'
with foreign nations and with the Indian tribes. This limita-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion necessarily excludes from the Federal control, commerce
not thus designated, and of course that commerce which is
carried on entirely within the limits of a State and does not
extend to or affect other States."
The fact that internal commerce may be distinct from interstate commerce, destroys the whole theory upon which the
argument of the plaintiff in error proceeds. The power of
the State to control the killing of and ownership in game
being admitted, the commerce in game, which the state law
permitted, was necessarily only internal commerce, since the
restriction that it should not become the subject of external
commerce went along with the grant and was a part of it.
All ownership in game killed within the State came under
this condition, which the State had the lawful authority to
impose, and no contracts made in relation to such property
were exempt from the law of the State consenting that such
contracts be made, provided only they were confined to internal and did not extend to external commerce.
The case in this respect is identichl with Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U. S. 1. - The facts there considered were briefly as
follows: The State of Iowa permitted the distillation of
intoxicating liquors for "mechanical, medicinal, culinary and
sacramental purposes." The right was asserted to send out of
the State intoxicating liquors made therein on the ground that,
when manufactured in the State, such liquors became the subject of interstate commerce, and were thus protected by the
Constitution of the United States; but this court, through
Mr. Justice Lamar, pointed out the vice in the reasoning,
which consisted in presupposing that the State had authorized the manufacture of intoxicants, thereby overlooking the
exceptional purpose for which alone such manufacture was
permitted. So here the argument of the plaintiff in error substantially asserts that the state statute gives an unqualified
right to kill game, when in fact it is only given upon the condition that the game killed be not transported beyond the
state limits. It was upon this power of the State to qualify
and restrict the ownership in game killed within its limits
that the court below rested its conclusion, and similar views

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.
0

have been expressed by the courts of last resort of several of
the States. In State v. Rodman, 58 Minnesota, 393, 400, the
Supreme Court of Minnesota said:
"The preservation of such animals as are adapted to consumption as food or to any other useful purpose, is a matter
of public interest; and it is within the police power of the
State, as the representative of the people in their united sovereignty, to make such laws as will best preserve such game,
and secure its beneficial use in the future to the citizens, and
to that end it may adopt any reasonable regulations, not only
as to time and manner in which such game may be taken' and
killed, but also imposing limitations upon the right of property in such game after it has been reduced to possession.
Such limitations deprive no person of his property, because
he who takes or kills game had'no previous right of property
in it, and when he acquires such right by reducing it to possession he does so subject to such conditions and limitations
as the legislature has seen fit to impose." See, also, State v.
Northern Paciic Exipress Co., 58 Minnesota, 403.
So, also, in Alfagner v. The People, 97 Illinois, 320, 333, the
Supreme Court of Illinois said:
" So far as we are aware, it has never been judicially denied
that the government under its police powers may make regulations for the preservation of game and fish, restricting their
taking and molestation to certain seasons of the year, although
laws to this effect, it is believed, have been in force in many
of the older States since the organization of the Federal Government.

.

.

.

The ownership being in the people of the

State, the repository of the sovereign authority, and no individual having any property rights to be affected, it necessarily results that the legislature, as the representative of the
people of the State, may withhold or grant to individuals
the right to hunt and kill game or qualify or restrict, as in the
opinions of its members will best subserve the public welfare.
Stated in other language, to hunt and kill game is a boon or
privilege, granted either expressly or impliedly by the sovereign authority- not a right inherent in each individual, and
consequently nothing is taken away from the individual when

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

he is denied the privilege at stated seasons of hunting and
killing game. It is, perhaps, accurate to say that the ownership of the sovereign authority is in trust for all the people of
the State, and hence by implication it is the duty of the legislature to enact such laws as will best preserve the subject of
the trust and secure its beneficial use in the future to the people of the State. But in any view, the question of individual
enjoyment is one of public policy and not of private right."
See also Exparte .Maier, 103 California, 476; Organ v. The
State, 56 Arkansas, 270. It is, indeed, true that in State v.
8aunders, 19 Kansas, 127, and Territory v. Evans, 2 Idaho,,
634, it was held that a state law prohibiting the shipment
outside of the State of game killed therein violated the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
but the reasoning which controlled the decision of these cases
is, we think, inconclusive, from the fact that it did not consider the fundamental distinction between the qualified ownership in game and the perfect nature of ownership in other
property, and thus overlooked the authority of the State over
property in game killed within its confines, and the consequent power of the State to follow such property into whatever hands it might pass with the conditions and restrictions
deemed necessary for the public interest.
Aside from the authority of the State, derived from the
common ownership of game and the trust for the benefit of
its people which the State exercises in relation thereto, there
is another view of the power of the State in regard to the
property in game, which is equally conclusive. The right to
preserve game flows from the undoubted existence in the
State of a police power to that end, which may be none the
less efficiently called into play, because by doing so interstate
commerce may be remotely and indirectly affected. Kidd v.
Pearson,128 U. S.1; Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S.485; Sherlock
v. .4ling, 93 U. S.99, 103; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
Indeed, the source of the police power as to game birds (like
those covered by the statute here called in question) flows
from the duty of the State to preserve for its people a valuable food supply. Phelps v. .Racey, 60 N. Y. 10; Ex parte

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

Maier, Ubi 8uP.; Magner v. The People, ubi sup., and cases
there cited. The exercise by the State of such power therefore comes directly within the principle of Plumley v. Massachueset, 155 U. S. 461, 473. The power of a State to protect
by adequate police regulation its people against the adulteration of articles of food, (which was in that case maintained,)
although in doing so commerce might be remotely affected,
necessarily carries with it the existence of a like power to
preserve a food supply which belongs in common to all the
people of the State, which can only become the subject of
ownership in a qualified way, and which can never be the
object of commerce except with the consent of the State and
subject to the conditions which it may deem best to impose
for the public good.

Judgment alrmed.
MR. JusTICE FIELD dissenting.
I am unable to agree with the majority of my associates in
the affirmance of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Errors
of Connecticut in this case, and I will state, briefly, the grounds
of my disagreement.
Section 2546 of the statutes of Connecticut, contained in
the revision of 1838, enacts that "no person shall, at any
time, kill any woodcock, ruffled grouse, or quail, for the purpose of conveying the same beyond the limits of the State;
or shall transport, or have in his possession with intent to procure the transportation beyond its limits, of any of such birds
killed within the State." And it adds in substance that the
reception by any person within the State of any such bird or
birds for shipment to a point without the State shall beprima
facie evidence that the bird or birds, were killed within the
State for the purpose of carrying the same beyond its limits.
Section 2530 of the statutes provides that every person who
shall kill, destroy, or attempt to kill, any woodcock, quail, ruffled grouse, called partridge, or gray squirrel, between the first
day of January and the first day of October, shall be fined in
a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars.
The present proceeding was commenced by an information

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

presented by the assistant district attorney of the city of New
London, Connecticut, against the defendant, Edgar M. Geer,
in the police court of that city, charging that he did, on the
19th of October, 1889, unlawfully receive and have in his
possession certain woodcock, ruffled grouse, and quail killed
within the State after the first day of October, 1889, with the
wrongful and unlawful intention to procure their transportation without the limits of the State.
Upon the information the judge of the police court issued to
the sheriff of the county, and to his deputies, a warrant for the
arrest of the defendant and to have him brought before that
court to answer the complaint. The defendant being brought
before the court pleaded to the complaint that he was not guilty,
but, as it is alleged, the court, having inquired into the matter,
adjudged him to be.guilty, and that he pay a fine of a specified
amount, together with the costs of the prosecution, and stand
committed until the judgment be complied with. From that
decision the accused appealed to the next session of the Criminal Court of Common Pleas to be held for New London
County, on the second Tuesday of December, 1889. At that
court and term he appeared and demurred to the complaint
on the ground, first, that the matters contained therein did
not constitute an offence; second, on the ground that it did
not allege that the birds were killed for the purpose of being
conveyed beyond the limits of the State; third, on the ground
that section 2546 of the General Statutes of Connecticut, under
which the complaint was brought, was void and unconstitutional, so far as it could be construed to forbid the transportation of the birds killed from the State, or having possession of
them with intent to procure their transportation to another
State, averring that the birds had been sold to parties in such
other State, and had begun to move as an article of interstate
commerce; fourth, on the ground that it appeared in the complaint that the defendant was not guilty under the section if
the birds were bought by him in the markets of the State as
merchandise, and had begun to move to another State as an
article of interstate commerce, such facts being averred in the
complaint to exist.

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

The Criminal Court of Common Pleas overruled the de.
murrer, and found that the complaint was sufficient, and the

accused having declined to answer over, it was held that he
was guilty of the offence charged, and he was accordingly
sentenced to pay a fine of twenty-Atve dollars and the costs
of the prosecution, and to stand committed until the judgment was complied with. The defendant thereupon appealed
from the judgment rendered by the Criminal Court of Common Pleas to the Supreme Court of Errors of the State for
the Second Judicial District, to be held at Norwich on the
last Tuesday of May, 1891. On that day the Supreme Court
-of Errors found that there was no error apparent in the judgment of the Criminal Court of Common Pleas, and accordingly affirmed it. An appeal was then taken from the decision
of the Supreme Court of Errors to the Supreme Court of the
United States, in which latter court the plaintiff in error
.assigns the following as grounds of error in the lower court:
1st. In refusing to hold that so much of section 2546 of
the General Statutes, under which the complaint was brought,
as might be construed to forbid the transportation from the
State of the birds described, lawfully killed and permitted by
the laws of the State to become the subject of traffic and
oommerce, was unconstitutional and void.
2d. In refusing to hold that so much of the section as might
be construed to forbid the receiving and having in possession,
with intent to procure the transportation thereof to another
State, the birds described, lawfully killed, and permitted by
the laws of the State to become the subject of traffic and
commerce, was unconstitutional and void.
3d. In holding that the defendant was guilty of an offence
under the section if the birds were lawfully killed in the State,
and were bought by the defendant in the market of the State
as merchandise, and had begun to move as an article of inter-state commerce.
And this court, notwithstanding the errors assigned, affirms
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut.
The record sent to it from the Supreme Court of Errors of
the State presents the questions, supposed to, be involved, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

a very confused and indistinct manner. Disentangling them
from the mass of words used, it appears that the Supreme
Court of Errors held that it was an offence against the
statute, upon which the information was filed in the police
court of New London, for the accused to have in his possession any of the birds mentioned killed in the State within the
period designated, for the purpose of transporting them without the State, and that it was to be inferred, under the law,
that the birds were killed within the State for' that purpose.
But if that constitutes the offence at which the statute aimed,
the information is defective in not alleging that the birds were
killed for the purpose stated, that is, of conveying them beyond the limits of the State, and thus that they were unlawfully killed.
The transportation of birds described to another State,
which were lawfully killed, does not constitute an offence
under the statute. The transportation against which the
statute was levied was that of birds unlawf'adly killed; the
evident object of the law being to prevent birds unlawfully
killed from being transported to the markets of another State.
The law was directed against the killing of the birds within
certain designated months of the year; and, in furtherance of
that law, the transportation of them to another State was
declared to be unlawful. The Supreme Court of Errors held
that it was not unconstitutional for the State to enact that
birds might be killed and sold or held for domestic consumption only; and that although the birds became a lawful subject of property when killed within the State for the purpose
of food, that it was competent for the State to limit their sale
for that purpose to the needs of domestic consumption. And
this court, in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Errors, appears to sanction that doctrine; but to its soundness
I cannot yield assent.
When any animal, whether living in the waters of the
State or in the air above, is lawfully killed for the purposes
of food or other uses of man, it becomes an article of commerce, and its use cannot be limited to the citizens of one
State to the exclusion of citizens of another State. Although

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Dissenting Opinion; Field, J.

there are declarations of some courts that the State possesses
a property in its wild game, and when it authorizes the game
to be killed and sold as an article of food it may limit the sale
only for domestic consumption, and the Supreme Court of
Errors of Connecticut in deciding the present case appears to
have held that doctrine, I am unable to assent to its soundness, where the State has never had the game in, its'possession
or under its control or use. I do not admit that in such case
there is any specific property held by the State by which, in
the exercise of its rightful authority, it can lawfully limit the
control and use of the animals killed to particular classes of
persons, or citizens, or to citizens of particular places or States.
But on the contrary, I hold that where animals within a State,
whether living in its waters or in the air above, are, at the
time, beyond the reach or control of man, so that they cannot
be subjected to his use or that of the State in any respect,
they are not the property of the State or of any one in a
proper sense. . I hold that until they are brought into subjection or use by the labor or skill of man, they are not the property of any one, and that they only become the property of
man according to the extent to which they are subjected by
his labor or skill to his use and benefit. When man by his labor
or skill brings any such animals under his control and subject to his use, he acquires to that, extent a right of property
in them, and the ownership of others in the animals is limited
by the extent and right thus acquired. This is a generally
recognized doctrine, acknowledged by all States of Christendom. It is the doctrine of law, both natural and positive.
The Roman law, as stated in the Digest, cited in the opinion
of the majority, expresses it as follows: "That which belongs
to nobody is acquired by the natural, law by the person who
first possesses it." A bird may fly at such height as to be beyond the reach of man or his skill, and no one can then assert
any right of property in such bird; it cannot then be said
to belong to any one. But when from any cause the bird is
brought within the reach and control or use of man, it becomes
at that instant his property, and may be an article of commerce between him and citizens of the same or of other States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

In an opinion writteu by me some years since I bad occasion to speak of this rule of law. I there said that it was a general principle of law, both natural and positive, that where a
subject, animate or inanimate, which otherwise could not be
brought under the control or use of man, is reduced to such
control or use by his individual labor or skill, a right of property in it is acquired. The wild bird in the air belongs to no
one, but when the fowler brings it to the earth and takes it
into his possession it is his property. He has reduced it to
his control by his own labor, and the law of nature and the
law of society recognize his exclusive right to it. The pearl
at the bottom of the sea belongs to no one, but the diver who
enters the water and brings it to light has-property in the
gem. He has by his own labor reduced it to possession, and
in all communities and by all law his right to it is recognized.
So the trapper on the plains'and the hunter in the north have
.a property in the furs they have gathered, though the animals
from which they were taken roamed at large and belonged to
no one. They have added by their labor to the uses of man
an article promoting his comfort which, without that labor,
would have been lost to him. They have a right, therefore,
to the furs, and every court- in Christendom would maintain
it. So when the fisherman drags by his net fish from the sea,
he has a property in them, of which no one is permitted to
despoil him. Spring 7alley Water Works v. Schottler, 110
U. S. 347, 374.
In State of .fiansas v. Saunders, 19 Kansas, 127, the defendant was charged, as the agent of the Adams Express Company,
with receiving at Columbus, Kansas, "certain prairie chickens,
which had been recently killed as game" and shipping them
to the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois. The statute
under which he was prosecuted made it unlawful for any person to transport or to ship any animals or birds mentioned,
among which were prairie chickens, out of the State of Kansas, and subjected him on conviction thereof to a fine of not
less than ten nor more than fifty dollars. The defendant admitted the facts as alleged, but contended that sucli acts constituted no offence, claiming that the statute of the State

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

under which the proceedings against him were commenced
was unconstitutional and void. The District Court held the.
statute valid, and found the defendant guilty, and sentenced
him to pay a fine of ten dollars and costs of prosecution.
From the conviction and sentence he appealed to the Supreme Court of Kansas, which reversed the judgment of the
District Court, holding "that no State can pass a law (whether
Congress has already acted upon the subject or not) which will
directly interfere with the free transportation from one State
to another, or through a State, of anything which is or may
be a subject of interstate commerce;" and referred to the
case of Welton v. -Missouri,91 U. S. 275, 282, where it was.
held by this court that "the fact that Congress has not
seen fit to prescribe any specific rules to govern interstate
commerce, does not affect the question. Its inaction on this
subject, when considered with reference to its legislation with
respect to foreign commerce, is equivalent to a declaration
that interstate commerce shall be free and untrammeled."
I do not doubt the right of the State, by its legislation, to
provide for the protection of wild game, so far as such protection is necessary for their preservation or for the comfort,
health or security of its citizens, and does not contravene the
power of Congress in the regulation of interstate commerce.
But I do deny the authority of the State, in its legislation for
the protection and preservation of game, to interfere in any
respect with the paramount control of Congress in prescribing
the terms by which its transportation to another State, when
killed, shall be restricted to such conditions as the State may
impose. The absolute control of Congress in the regulation
of interstate commerce, unimpeded by any state authority, is
of much greater consequence than any regulation the State
may prescribe with reference to the place where its wild
game, when killed, may be consumed.
When property, like the game birds in this case, is reduced
to possession it becomes an article of commerce and may be
the subject of sale to the citizens of one State or community,
or to the citizens of several. The decision of the court, however; would limit the right of sale of such property, however

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

valuable it may become, and whether living or killed, to the
directions of the State or community in which the property is
found, and would convert it from the freedom of use which
belongs to property in general to the limited use of the persons or communities where found, or to a particular class to
which only property possessed of special ingredients or qualities is limited. I do not think that it lies within the province
of any State to confine the excellencies of any articles of food
within its borders to its own fortunate inhabitants to the exclusion of others, and that it may lawfully require that game
killed within its borders shall only be eaten in such parts of
the country as it may prescribe.
By the Constitution of the United States it bas been adjudged that commerce between the States is under the absolute regulation of Congress, and that whenever an article of
property begins to move from one State to another, commerce
betweeh the States has commenced, and that with its control
or regulation no State can interfere. Welton v. fissouri,
91 U. S. 275; Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259; CAy
Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275 ; W~ard v. Maryland, 12 Wall.
4:18; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284;
Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99.
I therefore dissent from the conclusion of the majority of
my associates in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Errors of Connecticut.
Mn. JusTIcn HAzBLAN dissenting.
The statutes of Connecticut declare that "every person who
shall buy, sell, expose for sale, or have in his possession for
the purpose, or who shall hunt, pursue, kill, destroy or attempt
to kill any woodcock, quail, ruffled grouse, called partridge,
or gray squirrel between the first day of January and the
first day of October, the killing or having in possession of
each bird or squirrel to be deemed a separate offence, .
shall be fined not more than $30." They also provide that
"no person shall at any time kill any woodcock, ruffled grouse
or quail for the purpose of conveying the same beyond the
limits of the State; or shall transport or have in his posses-

GEER v. CONNECTICUT.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

sion, with intention to procure the transportation beyond said
limits, any such birds killed within this State. The reception
by any person within this State of any such bird or birds for
shipment to a point without the State shall be prima facie
evidence that said bird or birds were killed within the State
for the purpose of carrying the same beyond its limits."
The plaintiff in error was not charged with having in his
possession game that had been killed "for the purpose of
conveying the same beyond the limits of the State." It is
admitted that the game in question was lawfully killed, that
is, was killed during what is called the "open season." But
the charge was that the defendant unlawfully received and
had in his possession, with the wrongful and unlawful intent
to procure the transportation of the same beyond the limits
of the State, certain woodcock, ruffled grouse and quail killed
within the State after the first day of October.
I do not question the power of the State to prescribe a
period during which wild game within its limits may not be
lawfully killed. The State, as we have seen, does not prohibit the killing of game altogether, but permits hunting and
killing of woodcock, quail, ruffled grouse and gray squirrels
between the first day of October and the first day of January. The game in question having been lawfully killed, the
person who killed it and took it into his possession became the
rightful owner thereof. This, I take it, will not be questioned.
As such owner he could dispose of it, by gift or sale, at his
discretion. So long as it was fit for use as food, the State
could not interfere with his disposition of it, any more than
it could interfere with the disposition by the owner of other
personal property that was not noxious in its character. To
hold that the person receiving personal property from the
owner may not receive it with the intent to send it out of
the State is to recognize an arbitrary power in the government which is inconsistent with the liberty belonging to every
man, as well as with the rights which inhere in the ownership of property. Such a holding would also be inconsistent
with the freedom of interstate commerce which has been
established by the Constitution of the United States. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

majority had not held differently in the present case, I should
have said that discussion was unnecessary to show the soundness of the propositions just stated. But it seems that if the
citizen, whether residing in Connecticut or elsewhere, finds in
the markets of one of the cities or towns of that State game,
fit for food, that has been lawfully killed, and is lawfully in
the possession of the keeper of such market, he may, without
becoming a criminal, buy such game and take it into his possession, provided his intention be to eat it, or to have it eaten,
in Connecticut. But he will subject himself to a fine, as well
as to imprisonment upon his failing to pay such fine, if be
buys and take possession of such lawfully killed game, with
intent to send it to a friend in an adjoining State.
The court cites .Mc~ready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391, 395,
in which it was held that Virginia could restrict to its own
citizens the privilege of _panting oysters in the streams of
that State, the soil under which was owned by it. But I cannot believe that it would hold that oysters, which had been
lawfully taken out of such streams, and which had been lawfully planted, could not be purchased in Virginia, with the intent to ship them to another State. This court, in Plumley
v. .assachusetts, 155 U. S. 461, another of the cases cited by
the majority, sustained as valid a statute of IMassachusetts,
enacted to prevent deception in the manufacture and sale in
that State of imitation butter, and which prohibited the sale
of oleomargarine, artificially colored so as to cause it to look
like genuine yellow butter. But I cannot suppose that this
court will ever hold that a State could make it a crime to
purchase with the intent to send it to another State oleomargarine or genuine yellow butter that had been lawfully
manufactured within its limits.
Believing that the statute of Connecticut, in its application
to the present case, is not consistent with the liberty of the
citizen or with the freedom of interstate commerce, I dissent
from the opinion and judgment of the court.

M . JusTicI, BP.EwER and Mn. JUSTICE PEcKHAx, not having
heard the argument, took no part in the decision of this cause.

