DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Syllabus.

title to real estate within the limits of the State and within
the jurisdiction of the court, after actual notice to all known
claimants, and notice by publication to all other persons.
Phillips v. -loorc, 100 U. S. 208, 212; Arndt v. Griggs,.134
U. S. 316; Hardy v. Beaty, 84 Texas, 562, 569.
When a man dies, the legislature is under no constitutional
obligation to leave the title to his property, real or personal,
in abeyance for an indefinite period; but it may provide for
promptly ascertaining, by appropriate judicial proceedings,
who has succeeded to his estate. If such proceedings are had,
after actual notice by service of summons to all known claimants, and constructive notice by publication to all possible
claimants who are unknown, the final determination of the
right of succession, either among private persons, as in the
ordinary administration of estates, or between all persons and
the State, as by inquest of office or similar process to determine whether the estate has escheated to the public, is due
process of law; and a statute providing for such proceedings
and determination does not impair the obligation of any contract contained in the grant under which the former owner
held, whether that grant was from the State or from a private
person.
Judgment aTffrmed.

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 415. Argued January 13, 14, 1896.-Decided March 2, 1896.

Section 130 of chapter 689 of the laws of New York of 1892, providing for
the payment by the receiver of an insolvent bank, in the first place, of
deposits in the bank by savings banks, when applied to an insolvent national bank, is in conflict with § 5236 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, directing the Comptroller of the Currency to make ratable dividends of the money paid over to him by such receiver, on all claims
proved to his satisfaction, or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and is therefore void when attempted to be applied to a national
bank.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

I March, 1893, the Elmira National Bank, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, arid
doing business in the State of Newr York, suspended payment, and the Comptroller of the Currency of the United
States appointed Charles Davis, pjaintiff in error, the receiver
thereof. The Elmira Savings Bank, which was incorporated
under the laws of the State of New York, from November,
1890, kept a deposit account with the Elmira National Bank,
and at the time of the appointment of the receiver of. the
latter corporation there was to the credit of this account of
the Savings Bank the sum of 842,704:.67. The opening of the
deposit account by the Savings Bank was sanctioned by the
general banking laws of the State of New York, as expressed
in sections 118 and 119 of chapter 689 of the laws of 1892,
which were as follows:
2 Laws of 1892, p. 1898, c. 689. "§ 118. AVAILABLE FUND,
FOR CURRENT EXPENSES, HOW LOANED. - The trustees of every
such corporation shall as soon as practicable invest the moneys
deposited with them in the securities authorized by this article;
but for the purpose of meeting current payments and expenses
in excess of the receipts, there may be kept an available fund
not exceeding ten per centum of the whole amount of deposits
with such corporation, on hand or deposit in any bank in this
State organized under any law of this State or of the United
States, or with any trust company incorporated by any law of
the State but the sum so deposited in any one bank or trust
company shall not exceed twenty-five per centum of the paidup capital and surplus of any such bank or company. .
b. "§ 119. TEmPoRARY DEPOSITS. - Every such corporation
may also deposit temporarily in the banks or trust companies specified in the last section the excess of current daily
receipts over the payments, until such time as the same can
be judiciously invested in the securities required by this
"
article.
In the process of liquidating the affairs and realizing the
assets of the National Bank all its circulating notes were provided for, and the receiver had on hand-in cash for distribution
among its creditors a sum exceeding the amount due as afore.

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK
Statement of the Case.

said to the Savings Bank. Thereupon the latter demanded of
the receiver payment of the sum to -the credit of its deposit
account in preference to the other creditors of the National
Bank, basing its demand on a provision of the general banking law of the State of New York, which is as follows:
b. 1903. "§ 130.

DEBTS DUE SAVINGS BANKS FROm iNSOi-

- All the property of any bank or
trust company which shall become insolvent shall, after providing for the payment of its circulating notes, if it has any,
be applied by the trustees, assignees or receiver thereof, in
the first place, to the payment in full of any sum or sums of
money deposited therewith by any savings bank, but not
to an amount exceeding that authorized to be so deposited
by the provisions of this chapter, and subject to any other
preference provided for in the charter of any such trust company."
The receiver, under the authority of the Comptroller of
the Currency of the United States, declined to accede to this
demand, predicating his refusal on the provisions of sections
5236 and 5242 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
which are as follows:
"§ 5236. From time to time, after full provision has been
first made for refunding to the United States any deficiency
in redeeming the notes of such association, the Comptroller
shall make a ratable dividend of the money so paid over to
him by such receiver on all such claims as may have been
proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds of the assets of such
association are paid over to him, shall make further dividends on all claims previously proved or adjudicated; and
the remainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to
the shareholders of such association, or their legal representatives, in proportion to the stock by them respectively
held."
"§ 5242. All transfers of the notes, bonds, bills of exchange
or other evidences of debt owing to any national banking
association, or of deposits to its credit; all assignments of
mortgages, sureties on real estate, or of judgments or decrees
VENT BANKS PREFERED.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

in its favor; all deposits of money, bullion or other valuable
thing for its use or for the use of any of its shareholders or
creditors; and all payments of money to either, made after
the commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation
thereof, made with a view to prevent the application of its
assets in the manner prescribed by this chapter, or with a
view to the preference of one creditor to another, except in
payment of its circulating notes, shall be utterly null and
void.
"
In consequence of this refusal the Savings Bank brought
an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York to
enforce the payment by preference, which action was resisted
by the receiver. Ultimately the case was taken to the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York, where the claim of
preference, asserted by the Savings Bank, was maintained.
The case is reported in 142 N. Y. 590. To that judgment the
present writ of error is prosecuted.
.Xr. Edward TWinslow Paige for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Augustus S. lutchins filed a brief on behalf of the
Metropolitan Savings Bank.
-Ar. James C. Carter and .Xr. Edward G. Herendeen, for
defendant in error.
The Court of Appeals of New York held in this case that
the New York statute applies to national as well as to state
banks. This construction is, of course, binding on this court.
Christy v. Pridgeon,4 Wall. 196; People v. WVeaver, 100 U. S.
539.
Clearly the legislature intended that national banks should
be on the same footing as state banks as to right to receive
deposits of savings banks. But this intention would wholly
fail of purpose, if such deposits were preferred when held by
insolvent state banks and were not preferred when held by
insolvent national banks.
That act is within the proper sphere of state legislation.
The theory upon which the constitutionality of national bank

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

legislation was finally upheld, is a narrow one, necessarily
involving sharp and closely confined limitations. Of the cases
on this subject, the leading one is -NationalBank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353. From the opinion in that case, the
United States Supreme Court, in so recent a case as Western
Union Tel. Co. v. .Massachusetts,125 U. S. 530, 551, referring
to such limitation, quotes approvingly as follows: "That limitation is that the agencies of the Federal government are only
exempted from state legislation, so far as that legislation may
interfere with or impair their efficiency in performing the
functions by which they are designed to servie that government. Any other rule would convert a principle founded
alone on the necessity of securing to the government of the
United States the means of exercising its legitimate powers,
into an unauthorized and unjustifiable invasion of the rights
of the States.

.

.

.

So of the banks.

They are subject

to the laws of the State, and are governed in their daily course
of business far more by the laws of the State than of the
nation. All their contracts are governed and construed by
state laws. Their acquisition and transfer of property, their
right to collect their debts, and their liability to be sued for
debts, are all based on state law. It is only when the state law
incayaitates the banks from discharging their duties to the
government that it becomes unconstitutional." See also Waite
v. Dowley, 94 U. S. 527.
The contract which the state statute compelled the bank to
make with the defendant in error in this case is one made in
respect to an ordinary transaction between the bank and a
depositor. Such a contract in no respect impairs the utility
of the national bank as an agent of the United States, and ic
to be considered as made with reference to the law of thE
State, and as subject to its provisions. Odgen v. Saunders,
12 Wheat. 213; Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223; Von Hoffman
v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, 550. . The highest court of the State
has decided that it gave to the defendant in error an equitable lien which operated as an equitable assignment of the
assets of the national bank upon insolvency for the purpose of
securing the payment of the deposit in full, and that construe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

tion is binding on this court. Louisiana v. Pillsbury, 105 U. S.
278; .Morleyv. Lake Shore & Mlichigan Southern Railway,
146 U. S. 162, 166.
It is not material that the fund so assigned should be in existence. Peugh v. Porter,112 U. S. 737, 742. According to
the general doctrine of equity, established beyond any doubt
by the highest judicial authority, the equitable assignment or
the equitable lien upon property to be acquired in the future,
is valid and enforceable not only against the contracting
party himself, but also against subsequent judgment creditors,
assignees in bankruptcy, and all other volunteers claiming or
holding under him and against subsequent purchasers from
him with notice of the assignment or lien. When chattels
are sold or exchanged, the lien will attach to those substituted.
3 Pom. Eq. Jur. § 1291.
Assignees in bankruptcy take only such rights as the bankrupt had, and are affected with all the equities which would
affect the bankrupt himself. Courts of equity support assignments of choses in action, interests and expectations not only,
but also of things which have no present actual potential existence but rest in mere possibility only.
An agreement to charge, or to assign, or to give security
upon, or to affect property not yet in existence, or in the
ownership of the party making the contract, or property to
be acquired by him in the future . . . constitutes an
equitable lien upon the property so existing or acquired at a
subsequent time, which is enforced in the same manner and
against the same parties as a lien upon specific things existing
and owned by the contracting party at the date of contract.
3 Pom. Eq. Jur. §§ 1236, 1237.
This equitable assignment only differs from a pledge in that
the fund is not yet definitely fixed. Such a pledge or mortgage is permitted when made for present consideration, though
it may operate to give a preference. So the present assignment of a fund to be thereafter definitely ascertained, must be
permitted, though it operate as a preference.
This constitutes a present right of property which the legislature cannot constitutionally impair. Mfather v. Bush, 16

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Johns. 233, 252; Roosevelt v. Cebra, 17 Johns. 108; Sturges
v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122, 198.
Any statute is unconstitutional as impairing the obligation
of contracts which introduces a change into the express terms
of the contract, its legal construction, its validity, its discharge,
or (within certain limits) its enforcement.
The prohibition of the Constitution against state laws impairing the obligation of contracts, applies to implied as well
as to express contracts. Fisk v. Jeferson Police Jury, 116
U. S. 131.
In any case the lawful repeal of a statute cannot constitutionally be made so as to destroy contracts which have been
entered into under it, or to affect substantially the rights
obtained by virtue of the statute. Cooley's Const. Lim., ad
ed., pp. 289, 290, 291, and 292.
The right of the Savings Bank to deposit in the National
Bank only existed by permission of the statute. That permission is conditioned on an equitable assignment, as collateral security for the deposit, of the assets of the National Bank
on hand at the time of its insolvency.
The contract made by the operation of the state statute
between the Savings Bank and the National Bank at the time
the deposit was made, constituting an equitable lien or equitable assignment, is not in conflict with the national bank act,
or with any provision of any Federal statute. The Federal
statute has been construed to recognize all prior equitable
and legal liens. Scott v. Armstrong, 146 U. S. 499.
It has been uniformly held that the receiver is a statutory
assignee of the bank, and gets no better title than the bank
had, and takes the funds in the plight in which they were
held by the bank immediately prior to his appointment, and
must turn them over accordingly unaffected by the provisions
of the national bank act, as to ratable distribution. He takes
the property cum onere.
In Scott v. Armstrong, this court held that the receiver of a
national bank took the assets as a mere trustee and not as a
purchaser for value; and that in the absence of a statute to
the contrary, demands and choses in action which belonged to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the bank were in his hands subject to all claims and advances that might have been interposed as against the bank
before the liens of the United States and general creditors
attached.
Even under the stringent provisions of non-preferential
bankrupt laws, it has been uniformly held that collateral
given at the time of the passing of a present sufficient consideratibn, even though the possibility, or even probability, of
future insolvency was in the minds of the parties at the time,
will be sustained, and contractual rights or equities existing
at such a time will be afterward upheld when insolvency
occurs.
The contract in question was not made in contemplation of
insolvency. The lien created by it was not a secret lien. It
worked .no harm to other depositors. Without it the bank
could not have obtained the deposit. The National Bank
might have refused to accept the deposit under these terms,
but the Savings Bank had no discretion. It could only deposit
upon the conditions of this statutory contract. The use of
that deposit was to the advantage of all of the depositors of
the depository bank. The assets of the bank were thus increased by every dollar for which the lien is claimed, and no
harm could possibly result by this transaction to the other
creditors of the bank.
It is no answer to the contention of the defendant in error
in this case to say that such a contract could be made with
every one and proportionate distribution thereby defeated.
We are dealing with a right given by the State of New York
to one class of creditors only; a right founded in the highest
conception of public policy, and in line with the theory of all
savings bank legislation, which is to surround the funds of
savings banks with every possible protection. The Savings
Bank is limited in its powers. It is not permitted to make
any other contract of deposit with the National Bank. If this
case should be held to be an exception to a general rule it
would work no harm, for it would be an exception founded
upon the broad principles of public policy and justice.

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JuSTIcE WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
National banks are instrumentalities of the Federal government, created for a public purpose, and as such necessarily
subject to the paramount authority of. the United States. It
follows that an attempt, by a State, to*define their duties or
control the conduct of their affairs is absolutely void, wherever
such attempted exercise of authority expressly conflicts with
the laws of the United States, and either frustrates the purpose of the national legislation or impairs the efficiency of
these agencies of the Federal government to discharge the
duties, for the performance of which they were created.
These principles are axiomatic, and are sanctioned by the
repeated adjudications of this court.
The question which the record presents is, does the law of
the State of New York.on which the Savings Bank relies conflict with the law of the United States upon which the Comptroller of the Currency rests to sustain his refusal? If there
be no conflict, the two laws can coexist and be harmoniously
enforced, but if the conflict arises, the law of New York is
from the nature of things inoperative and void as against the
dominant authority of the Federal statute. In examining the
question it is well to put in juxtaposition a summary statement
of the Federal and state statutes. The first directs the Comptroller "from time to time, after full provision has been made
for the refunding to the United States of any deficiency in
redeeming the notes of such association, . . . to make a
ratable dividend of the money paid over to him . . . on
all such claims as may have been proved." The second, the
state law, directs "the trustee, assignee or receiver" of "any
bank or trust company which shall become insolvent" to
apply the assets received by him, "in the first place to the
payment in full of any sum or sums of money deposited therewith by any savings bank, but not to an amount exceeding
that authorized" by law.
It is clear that these two statutes cover exactly the same
subject-matter. Both relate to insolvent banks; both ordain

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that the right of preference on the one side and the duty of
ratable distribution on the other shall only result from insolvency; both cover the assets of such banks coming, after insolvency, into the hands of the officer or person authorized to
administer them. It is equally certain that both statutes
relate to the same duty on the part of the officer of the insolvent bank; the one directs the representative to make a
ratable distribution; the other -requires, if necessary, the
application of the entire assets to payment in full, by preference and priority over all others of a particular and selected
class of creditors therein named. We have, therefore, on the
one hand, the statute of the United States, directing that the
assets of an insolvent national bank shall be distributed by
the Comptroller of the Currency in the manner therein pointed
out, that is, ratably among the creditors. We have on the other
hand, the statute of the State of New York giving a contrary
command. To hold that the state statute is operative is to
decide that it overrides the plain text of the act of Congress.
This results, not only from the fact that the two statutes, as
we have said, cover the same subject-matter. and relate to the
same duty, but also because there is an absolute repugnancy
between their provisions, that is, between the ratable distribution, commanded by Congress, and the preferential distribution directed by the law of the State of New York.
The conflict between the spirit and purpose of the two statutes is as pronounced as that which exists between their unambiguous letter. It cannot be doubted that one of the
objects of the national bank system was to secure, in the
event of insolvency, a just and equal distribution of the assets
of national banks among all unsecured creditors, and to prevent such banks from creating preferences in contemplation
of insolvency. This public aim in favor of all the citizens of
every State of the Union is manifested by the entire context
of the national bank act.
In Cook "CountyNfational Bank v. United States, 10-7 U. S.
445, 448, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, the court said:
"We consider that act as constituting by itself a complete
system for the establishment and .government of national

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Opinion of the Court
.
.
Everything essential to the formation of the
banks.
banks, the issue, security and redemption of their notes, the
winding up of the institutions, and the distribution of their
assets, are fully provided for."
In .NationalBank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609, 613, 614, the court
said:
"As to the general creditors, the act evidently intends to
secure equality among them in the division of the proceeds of
the property of the bank.
"The fifty-second section, further to secure this equality,
declares that all transfers by an insolvent bank of its property
of every kind, and all payments of money made after the
commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation
thereof, with a view to prevent the application of its assets
in the manner prescribed by the act, or ' with the view to the
preference of one creditor over another, except in the payment of its circulating notes,' shall be utterly null and void.
"There is in these provisions a clear manifestation of a
design on the part of Congress: 1st, to secure the government
for the payment of the notes, not only by requiring, in advance of their issue, a deposit of bonds of the United States,
and by giving to the government a first lien for any deficiency
that may arise on all the assets subsequently acquired by the
insolvent bank; and, 2d, to secure the assets of the bank for
ratable distribution among its general creditors.
"This design would be defeated if a preference in the
application of the assets could be obtained by adversary
proceedings."
Nearly twenty-five years ago (in September, 1871) the Secretary of the Treasury submitted to the Attorney General of
the United States the question of whether the ratable division
provided for in the act of Congress deprived the United States,
as a creditor of an insolvent national bank, of the power to
avail of the preference given by the statute, which provides
that the United States shall be preferred out of the effects of
an insolvent debtor. (Act of March 3, 1797, c. 20, § 5, 1 Stat.
515.) The opinion of the Attorney General was that the ratable distribution required, when read in connection with other

OCTOBER TER-M, 1895.
Opinion -of the Court.

sections of the national bank law, deprived the United States
of all preference, except that given for the payment of the
notes issued by such banks. 13 Opinions, 528.
This construction has been the rule administered by the
Comptrollers of the Currency in the liquidation of national
banks, from that date, and was. directly sustained in Cook
County Nfational Bank v. United States, ubi supra, where Mr.
Justice Field, as the organ of the court,. said: "The sections
directing ratable distribution provide for the distribution of
the entire assets of the bank, giving no preference to any
claim, except for moneys to reimburse the United States for
advances in redeeming the notes." After holding that the
United States could not exercise as a creditor the preference
in its favor created by a general law of the United States,
the conclusion is thus summed up : "These provisions could
not be carried out if the United States were entitled to priority in the payment of a demand not arising from advances to
redeem the circulating notes. The balance, after reimbursement of the advances, could not be distributed as directed by
ratable dividends to all holders of claims, that is, to all creditors." Thus, although for many years in the administration of
the act, under a construction given by the Attorney General
of the United States, sanctioned by the decisions of this court,
the ratable distribution provided by the act of Congress has
been deemed so -important as to repeal, in so far as it prevented ratable distribution, the general preference given the
United States by its own statute, the contention now advanced maintains that this ratablQ distribution is of so little
consequence that it can be overthrown and rendered nothing
worth, by the provisions of a general insolvent statute of the
State of New York. In other words, that the statute of the
State of Now York operating upon the national bank law is
more efficacious than would be a statute of the United States.
Nor is it an answer to say that the 'atio decidendi of the
ruling in Cook County Nfational Bank v. United States was
the fact that the statute provided that the United States
should take security for the debts to become due them by a
national bank. In the case presented by the Secretary of the

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

Treasury to the Attorney General for consideration the security in favor of the United States was inadequate, and therefore the question which arose was the right of the United
States to collect an unsecured claim in disregard of the rule
of ratable division. And such was the state of facts contemplated by the opinion of this court in the Cook County
ca8e. This makes it evident that the controlling thought
which gave rise to the interpretation sanctioned by this court
was the fact that to have allowed the preference in favor of
the United States ordained by one of its statutes would have
destroyed the rule of ratable distribution established as a protection to and for the benefit of all the creditors of a national
bank.
It is certain, that in so far as not repugnant to acts of Congress, the contracts and dealings of national banks are left
subject to the state law, and upon this undoubted premise,
which nothing in this opinion gainsays, the proposition is
advanced that the deposit here considered of the Savings
Bank with. a national bank imported a contract to pay the
claim of the former with the preference allowed by the New
York statute. But this overlooks the plain terms of the New
York law. That statute does not profess to deal with the
bank and its relations as a going concern; it wholly and exclusively undertakes to regulate the distribution of the assets
;fter insolvency. Insolvency, and insolvency alone, is made
the criterion from which the preference is to arise. Indeed,
the statute, in terms, directs its mandate to discharge the
claim with preference, not to the bank eo nomine, but to the
assignee, trustee or agent, charged with administering its
effects after insolvency has become flagrant. The claim of
contract, therefore, conflicts with the very terms of the statute
upon which it is based, and there is, therefore, no room for
implying a contract. If such implication, however, could be
invoked it must rest on the contention that inasmuch as the
state statute gave a savings bank making a deposit the right
to be preferred in case of insolvency, therefore the general
state law must be presumed to have entered into the contract
of the parties, and hence also engender the presumption that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in case of insolvency such deposit should be preferred. If
the law of the State is to be read into the contract, then, of
course, the law of Congress should also be read into it. We
should thus have to consider all the deposits as made with an
implication that they were subject to the Federal law, and
hence the conflict between the two laws would become evident, and the Federal law, being paramount, would prevail.
The New.York statute does not profess, however, to change
the legal relation which results from a deposit made in a bank.
The deposit of money by a customer with his banker is one of
loan, with a superadded obligation that the money is to be
paid when demanded by a check. Scammon v. Kimball, 92
U. S. 362; lMarine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252. The
argument, therefore, of implied contract, not only is contrary to
the letter of the New York statute, but also destroys the very
essence of the legal relation resulting from the dealings
between the parties. Nor is the repugnancy between the
state statute and the act of Congress removed by the contention that inasmuch as ratable distribution applies only to that
which belongs to the bank, therefore there is no conflict between the state statute and the act of Congress. This argument can only mean that the effect of the state statute is to
make the Savings Bank, in the event of insolvency of the
National Bank, the owner of a sum equivalent in amount to
the sum of money which was by it deposited. But to say
this aggravates the conflict between the state law and the act
of Congress. If the state statute is to be read as saying that
whenever the persons named therein deposit money with a
national bank they shall be treated as the owners of an equal
sum of the assets of the bank when it becomes insolvent, then
the state statute precludes, in a most flagrant way, the possibility of the ratable distribution ordered by the act of Congress. True it is that where, by state law, a lien is made to
result from a particular contract, that lien, when its existence
is not incompatible with the act of Congress, will be enforced.
True, also, where a particular contract is made by a national
bank which from its nature gives rise at the time of the contract to a claim on a specific fund, such claim, if not violative

DAVIS v. ELMIRA SAVINGS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act of Congress will be allowed. To that effect are the
authorities relied on.
Thus it was said by this court in Scott v. Armstrong, 146
U. S. 499, when dealing with the question of set-off: "The
requirement as to ratable dividends is to make them from
what belongs to the bank, and that which at the time of the
insolvency belongs of right to the debtor, does not belong to
the bank." So in the case of San Diego County v. California
Nat. Bank, 52 Fed. Rep. 59, it was decided that the funds
received by a national bank, which the party depositing had
no authority of law to deposit, were not part of the assets to
be "ratably distributed," but must be returned in full to the
rightful owner. And, again in Massey v. Fisher,62 Fed. Rep.
958, which was a case where an endorser paid the amount of
a note to a bank and took a receipt, but before he took the
note from the bank the bank failed, the substance of the decision was, that the money did not belong to the bank, but was
b pld by it in trust; and, of course, in that case, it was not
part of its assets.
None of these cases are apposite here. On the contrary,
by an affirmative, pregnant with a negative, they deny the
preference which is now advanced. This clearly results from
the context of the opinions in these cases. They all reason to
demonstrate that from the particular facts stated the relatiofi
was not that of an ordinary creditor, but was one giving rise
to a specific lien or right resulting from the contract, and
which was in being before the insolvency took place. Here
there is no such condition; there is simply an ordinary creditor asserting the right to a preference arising from an insolvent law. This distinction is well illustrated by Scott v.
Armstrong, supra, cited and relied on in the opinion of the
court below. In that case the facts as to the set-off, which
was allowed, are thus stated: "The credits between the banks
were reciprocal and were parts of the same transaction, in
which each gave credit to the other on the faith of the simltaneous credit, and the principle applicable to mutual credits
applied."
The difference between Scott v. Armstrong and the presVOL. CLXI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1895
Opinion of the Court.

ent case is this: There this court was called on to determine
whether a claim which had been extinguished, by operation
of law, prior to the insolvency was still due after the insolvency, but here the question is whether a claim existing at
the time of the insolvency and up to that date unsecured shall,
by the operation of an insolvent statute, be converted after the
insolvency into a preferred claim to be paid by preference over
all other creditors. This distinction between the two questions
was clearly stated in Scott v. Armstrong, where, speaking
through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, this court said: "The state
of case where the claim sought to be off-set is acquired after
the act of insolvency, is far otherwise for the rights of the
parties become fixed as of that time, and to sustain such a
transfer would defeat the objects of these provisions (the act
of Congress). The transaction must necessarily be held to
have been entered into with the intention to produce its
natural result, the preventing of the application of the insolvent assets in the manner prescribed. Venango National
Bank v. Taylor, 56 Penn. St. 14; Colt v. Brown, 12 Gray,

233."
Nothing, of course, in this opinion is intended to deny the
operation of general and undiscriminating state laws on the
contracts of national banks, so long as such laws do not conflict with the letter or the general objects and purposes of
Congressional legislation. Much was said in argument as to
the public policy embodied in the law of the State of New
York and the wisdom of upholding it. Our function is judicial and not legislative. Did we, however, consider motives
of public policy, we should not be unmindful of the wise safeguard, in favor of all the people of the United States, resulting
from the provision which secures to every one dealing with a
national bank a ratable distribution of the assets thereof,
thereby stimulating confidence and uniformity of treatment.
Judgment reversed and case remanded to the Court of
A4peals of the State of New York with instructions to
remit the cause to the court in which it originated with
directions to dismiss the action.

