CASES ADJUDGED
IN TME

SUPREME COURT OF TtHE INITEI) STATES,
.AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

CHEMICAL NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD
DEPOSIT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

No. 785.

COURT OF THE STATE

Submitted January 7,1896. -Decided

OF ILLINOIS.

February 8, 1896.

The legal existence of a corporation Is not cut short by its insolvency and
the consequent appointment of a receiver; and there is nothing in the
statutes relating to national banks which takes-them out of the operation
of this general rule.
After passing into the hands of a receiver, appointed by the Comptroller of
the Currency, under the provisions of the Revised Statutes, a national
bank remains liable, during the remainder of the term, for accrued and
accruing rent under a lease of the premises occupied by it, although the
receiver may have abandoned and surrendered them; but if the lessor, in
the exercise of a power conferred by the lease, reenters and relets the
premises, the liability of the bank after the reletting is limited to the rent
then accrued and unpaid, and the diminution, if any, in the rent for the
remainder of the term, after the reletting.

THIS

was an action of assumpsit brought by the Hartford

Deposit Company against the Chemical National Bank of
Chicago and the receiver of the bank in the Superior Court of
Cook ,County to recover damages for a failure to pay rent
VOL. CIcx-1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Stateihent of the Case.

alleged to be due, under a written lease, from August 1, 1893,
to April 30, 1894. The cause was submitted to the court for
trial on a stipulation as to the facts, of which the lease formed
a part; the issues were found in favor of defendants and
judgment was rendered accordingly. Plaintiff took the case
to the Appellate Court for the first district of Illinois, which
affirmed the judgment as to the receiver, but reversed it as to
the Chemical National Bank, and entered judgment for the
sum of $9000. 58 Ill. App. 256. An appeal was prosecuted
to the Supreme Court of Illinois and the judgment cif the
Appellate Court affirmed. 156 Illinois, 522. This writ of
error was thereupon brought.
The facts were thus stated by the Supreme Court:
"The Chemical :National Bank of Chicago entered into a
lease, dated November 18, 1892, with the Hartford Deposit
Company, of a banking office of a certain building owned by
the said Hartford Deposit Company. In accordance with its
terms the bank paid $2500 on the delivery of said lease. The
term was for a period of five years, from May 1, 1893, at an
annual rental of $12,000, payable in equal monthly instalments
of $1000 in advance, exclusive of and in addition to said first
payment of $2500. The bank entered into and took possession
of said premises on May 1, .1893, the first day of said term,
and the first instalment of rent fell due and was payable oh
that day. This instalment was not paid when due, nor had it,
or any part of it, been paid when, on May 9, 1893, the bank
became insolvent and a national-bank examiner took possession
of its assets and of said premises. On July 21 a receiver was
duly appointed, and on July 27 he notified the Hartford Deposit Company of his election to terminate said lease after
July 31, 1893, so far- as he, as receiver, was concerned. On
the same day, namely, July 27, said receiver paid to the Hartford Deposit Company the sum of $2709.68, which was, as
agreed, the ratable amount of rent due for the period to July 31,
inclusive. No other or further rent was paid under said lease
by any other person or at any other time. The premises
remained vacant until May 1, 1894, when they were relet at
a reduced rentaL"

CHEMICAL BANX t. HARTFORD 'DEPOSIT 00.

3

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Hiram T. Gilbert for plaintiff in error.
1. The appointment of a receiver of a national banking
association by the Comptroller of the Currency on account of
its insolvency amounts, for all practical purposes, to the dissolution of such association. Fidelity Safe Deposit & Trust Co.
v. A'rmstrong, 35 Fed. Rep. 567; Bethel Bank v. Pahquioque
Bank, 14 Wall. 383; White v. Knox, 111 U. S. 784; Rev. St.
ยง 5141, 5151, 5191, 5195, 5201, 5205, 5234, 5235, 5236, 5239;
act of June 30, 1876, c. 156, 19 Stat. 63.
IL A claim to be entitled to be proven up and paid by
dividends out of the assets of a national banking association
in the hands of a receiver must be one which, at the date of
the suspension of the association, was a then existing demand,
and the claim for rent under this lease is not such a demand.
Riggin v. .Magwire, 15 Wall. 549; French v. .Aorse, 2 Gray,
111, 115; Savory v. Stocking, 4 Cush. 607; Dean v. Caldwell,
127 Mass. 242; White v. Knox, 111 U. S.784; Fidelity Safe
Deposit & Trust Co. v. Armstrong, 35 Fed. Rep. 567; Gemiz
cal Nat. Bank v. Armstrong, 59 Fed. Rep. 372.
II. After the appointment by the Comptroller of the Currency of a receiver of a national banking association judgment cannot be rendered against such association, or its
receiver, for any claim which, at the date of the bank's suspension, was not an existing demand. Bethel Bank v. Pahquioque Bank, 14 Wall. 383 ; White v. -Knox, 111 U. S. 784;
Rev. Stat. ยง 5235, 5236.
Mr.Charles

.Baldwin for.defendant in error.

Ma. CiamF JUsTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is not claimed that the express covenant to pay rent was
released by the insolvency of the lessee merely; nor that the
election of the receiver not to accept the lease had any effect
on the contract between the lessor and the lessee; nor that.
the lessor had done anything itself to terminate its rights
under the lease. But it is argued that no judgment could be

OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Opinion of the Court.

rendered against the bank because the appointment of a receiver amounted to its dissolution, and because the rent in
question was not a demand existing at the date of the bank's
suspension, and, therefore, not a claim entitled to be proven
up and paid out of the assets of the bank or carried into judgment. The state courts ruled both branches of this contention adversely to .plaintiff in error.
Granting that, in the absence of statutory provision to the
contrary, suits cannot be maintained and judgments rendered
against corporations whose chartered existence has terminated,
it is not pretended in this case that that event had taken place
by lapse cf time, by judicial proceedings, or otherwise, unless,
as is insisted, the appointment of a receiver in itself put an
end to the bank as a corporate entity.
The general rule is that the legal existence of a corporation
cannot be cut short in this way, and we can find nothing in
the statutes in relation to insolvent national banks which gives
that effect to such an appointmdnt or justifies any distinction
in that regard as between them and other insolvent corporations.
By section 5136 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that
every national bank, duly incorporated, shall have succession
-forthe period of twenty years from its organization; "unless
it is sooner dissolved according to the provisions of its articles
of association, or by the act of its shareholders owning twothirds of its stock, or unless its franchise becomes forfeited by
some violation of law."
A receiver may be appointed upon the occurrence of the
particular defaults enumerated in sections 5141, 5151, 5191
5195, 5201, and 5205, not in question here.
Section 5151 provides: "The shareholders of every national
banking association shall be held individually responsible,
equally and ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts,
debts, and engagements of such association, to the extent of
the amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in
addition to the amount invested in such shares."
Sections 5220 and 5221 provide for the voluntary dissolution
of these associations, and sections 5226 and 5227 for the pro-

CHEMICAL BANK v. HARTFORD DEPOSIT 00.

5

Opinion of the Court.

test of their circulating notes on failure to redeem and the
appointment of a special agent to ascertain the fact.
Sections 5228, 5234, 5236, and 5239 are as follows:
"SEc. 5228. After a default on the part of an association to
pay any of its circulating notes has been ascertained by the
Comptroller, and notice thereof has been given by him to the
association, it shall not be lawful for the association suffering the same, to pay out any of its notes, discount any notes or
bills, or otherwise prosecute. the business of banking, except
to receive and safely keep money belonging to it, and to
deliver special deposits."
"ScFc. 5234. On becoming satisfied, as specified in sections
fifty-two hundred and twenty-six and fifty-two hundred and
twenty-seven, that any association has refused to pay its circulating notes as therein mentioned, and is in default, the Comptroller of the Currency may forthwith appoint a receiver, and
require of him such bond and security as he deems proper.
Such receiver, under the direction of the Comptroller, shall
take possession of the books, records, and assets of every
description of such association, collect all debts, dues, and
claims belonging to it, and, upon the order of a court of record
of competent jurisdiction, may sell or compound all bad or
doubtful debts, and, on a like order, may sell all the real and
personal property of such association, on such terms as the
court shall direct; and may, if necessary to pay the debts of
suon association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders. Such receiver shall pay over all money so made to
the Treasurer of the United States, subject to the order of the
Comptroller, and also make report to the Comptroller of all
his acts and proceedings."
"SEc. 5236. From time to time, after full provision has been
first made for refunding to the United States any deficiency
in redeeming the notes of such association, the Comptroller
shall make a ratable dividend of the money so paid over to
him by such receiver on all such claims as may have been
proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds of the assets of such
association are paid over to him, shall make further dividends

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

on .all claims previously proved or adjudicated; and the re
mainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the
shareholders of such association, or their legal representatives,
in proportion to the stock by them respectively held."
"SEc. 5239. If the directors of any national banking association shall knowingly violate, or knowingly permit any of
the officers, agents, or servants of the association to violate
any of the provisions of this title, all the rights, privileges, and
franchises of the association shall be thereby forfeited. Such
violation shall, however, be determined and adjudged by a
proper Circuit, District, or Territorial Court of the United
States, in a suit brought for that purpose by the Comptroller
of the Currency, in his own name, before the association shall
be declared dissolved. And in cases of such violation, every
director who participated in or assented to the same shall
be held liable in his personal and individual capacity for all
damages which the association, its shareholders, or any other
person, shall have sustained in consequence of such violation."
On June 30, 1876, (19 Stat. 63, c. 156,) C6ngress passed an
act, the first section of which provides: "That whenever any
national banking association shall be dissolved, and its rights,
privileges, and franchises declared forfeited, as prescribed in
section fifty-two hundred and thirty-nine of the Revised Statutes of the United States, or whenever any creditor of any
national banking association shall have obtained a judgment
against it in any court of record, and made application, accompanied by a certificate from the clerk of the court stating that
such judgment has been rendered and has remained unpaid
for the space of thirty days, or whenever the Comptroller
shall become satisfied of the insolvency of a national banking
association, he may, after due examination of its affairs, in
either case, appoint a receiver, who shall proceed to close up
such association and enforce the personal liability of the shareholders, as provided in section fifty-two hundred and thirtyfour of said statutes."
By the third section, whenever any association is placed in
the hands of a receiver and the creditors and expenses haye
been paid and the redemption of the circulating notes of such

CHEMICAL BANK v. HARTFORD DEPOSIT CO.

7

Opinion of the Court.

association provided for, the shareholders may elect an agent
to whom on filing bond the remaining assets of the associa
tion shall be transferred, and I such agent shall hold, control,
and dispose of the assets and property of any association
which he may receive as hereinbefore provided for the benefit
of the shareholders of such association as they, or a majority
of them in value or number of shares, may direct, distributing
such assets and property among such shareholders in proportion to the shares held by each; and he may, in his own name
or in the name of such association, sue and be sued, and do all
other lawful acts and things necessary to finally settle and
distribute the assets and property in his hands."
It thus appears that by the terms of the statutes the corporation continues, notwithstanding the appointment of a receiver,
if its corporate life has not been extinguished by lapse of time,
by any provision of its articles, by any action of its stockholders; or by any judgment of forfeiture. The receiver is
indeed appointed to close up the association, that is to say, to
wind up its business, get in its assets, and pay its debts, and,
if need be, to enforce the personal liability of its shareholders
for all its "contracts, debts, and engagements;" but the corporation lingers while this is being done, and on occasion when
the receiver has discharged his duty with the satisfactory results enumerated and assets remain, an agent may be chosen,
who may sue and be sued in the name of the association in
the conduct of the final liquidation. Of course when insolvency is declared the corporation is incapacitated from doing
any new business. It has ceased to be a going concern, but
it still survives for the purpose of the discharge of its liabilities
and the final distribution of its remaining assets when that
has been accomplished. No refinement of construction leads
to any other result and numerous decisions preclude further
discussion.
In Pahquioque Bank v. Bethel Bank, 36 Connecadut, 325,
a national bank having failed and a receiver been appointed,
the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut, in a well considered opinion, held that the winding up of the corporation
as provided did not put an end to its existence so as to affect

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the rights of creditors to enforce their claims or determine
their validity by suit or otherwise; that there was nothing in
the national banking act which justified the claim that the
.franchise was transferred to the receiver in the authority conferred on him to take possession of the assets; and that the
court was unable to discover "by what mode of operation
known in the law the proceedings in question can produce
that absolute and technical dissolution of a corporation which
is produced by a judgment for forfeiture or by a legislative
repeal, and bars a suit by a creditor." Judgment was given
against the insolvent bank and that judgment affirmed by this
court in Bank of Bethel v. Pahquiogue Bank, 14: Wall. 383,
where it was said: " N one of these proceedings, however, support the theory that the association ceased to exist when the
receiver was appointed, nor at any time before the assets of
the association are fully administered, and the balance, if
any, is paid to the owners of the stock or their legal representatives."
In _7ational Bank v. _Insurance Company, 104 IU. S. 54, 73,
it was held that a national bank in voluntary liquidation is not
thereby dissolved as a corporation, but may sue and be sued
by name for the purpose of winding up its business; and Mr.
Justice Matthewrs, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"It is to be observed that the sections under which the proceedings took place which, it is claimed, put an end to the
corporate existence of the bank, do not refer, in terms, to a
dissolution of the corporation, and there is nothing in the
language which suggests it, in the technical sense in which it
is used here as a defence. The association goes into liquidation and is closed. It is required to give notice that it is
closing up its affairs, and in order to do so completely and
effectually, to notify its creditors to present their claims for
payment. And the redemption of its bonds given to secure
the .payment of its circulating notes, by the required deposit
of money in the treasury, is limited in its effect to a discharge
of the association and its shareholders from all liability upon
its circulating notes. The very purpose of the liquidation
provided for is to pay the debts of the corporation, that the

CHEMICAL BANK v. HARTFORD DEPOSIT 00.

9

Opinion of the Court.

remainder of the assets, being reduced to money, may be
distributed among the stockholders. That distribution cannot
take place, with any show of justice, and according to the intent of the law, until all liabilities to creditors have been
honestly met and paid. If there are claims made which the
directors of the association are not willing to acknowledge as
just debts, there is nothing in the statute which is inconsistent
with the right of the claimant to obtain a judicial determination of the controversy by process against the association, nor
with that of the association to collect by suit debts due to it.
It is clearly, we think, the intention of the law that it should
continue to exist, as a person in law, capable of suing and being
sued, until its affairs and business are completely settled. The
proceeding prescribed by the law seems to resemble, not the
technical dissolution of a .corporation without any saving as
to the common law consequences, but rather that of the
dissolution of a copartnership, -which, nevertheless, continues
to subsist for the purpose of liquidation and winding up its
business."
And in Rosenblatt v. Johnston, 104 U. S. 462, 463, Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, referring to the
assets and property of an insolvent national bank, remarked:
"Such property and assets, in legal contemplation, still belong to the bank, though in the hands of a receiver, to be
administered under the law. The bank did not cease to exist
on the appointment of the receiver. Its corporate capacity
continues until its affairs are finally wound up and its assets
distributed."
It is further urged that the claim was not an existing demand
at the time of the suspension of the bank and could not be
proven up for participation in the distribution of the assets.
What effect, if any, this. might have on the mere recovery of
judgment, and the questions often arising in respect of discharges in bankruptcy or insolvency, or of proceedings against
insolvent decedents' estates as to the postponement of belated
claims to subsequently discovered assets, the state courts did
not find it necessary to consider, as they were of opinion that
the liability was an existing demand.

