LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

67

Syllabus.

against the attempt of one road to control all traffic between
terminal points, also connected by a competing line. There
are, moreover, thought to be other dangers to the moral sense
of the community incident to such great aggregations of
wealth, which, though indirect, are even more insidious in
their influence, and such as have awakened feelings of hostility which have not failed to find expression in legislative acts.
The consolidation of these two great corporations will
unavoidably result in giving to the defendant a monopoly
of all traffic in the northern half of the State of Minnesota,
as well as of all transcontinental traffic north of the line of
the Union Pacific, against which public regulations will be
but a feeble protection. The acts of the Minnesota legislature
of 1S74 and 1881 undoubtedly reflected the general sentiment
of the public, that their best security is in competition.
In conclusion, we hold that where, by a railway charter, a general power is given to consolidate with, purchase) lease or acquire the stock of other roads, which has remained unexecuted,
it is within the competency of the legislature to declare, by
subsequent acts, that this power shall not extend to the purchase, lease or consolidation with parallel or competing lines.
The decree of the court below must therefore be
Reversed, and the case remandedfor further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE

FIELD and MR. JusTicE BREWER dissented.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KE

UC.

No. 722. Argued January 14, 15, 196.-Declded Manrch 80, 1596.

A power given In a charter of a railroad to connect or unite with other
roads refers merely to a physical connection of the tracks, and does not
authorize the purchase, or even the lease of such roads or road, or any
union of franchises.

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

The several statutes of Kentucky and of Tennessee relating to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, which are quoted from or referred
to in the opinion of the court, confer upbn that company no general right
to purchase other roads, or to consolidate with them.
The union referred to in those statutes is limited to a union with a road
already connected with the Louisville and-Nashville by running into the
same town, and has and could have no possible relation to the acquirement
of a parallel or competing line.
The third section of the Kentucky act of 1856 reenacting the Tennessee act
of 1855, and providing that the Louisville and Nashville Company may
"from time to time extend any branch road and may purchase and hold
any road constructed by another company" did not confer a general
power to purchase roads constructed by other companies regardless of
their relations or connections with the Louisville and lashville road.
A contemporaneous construction of its charter which ratified the purchase
of a few short local lines does not justify the company in consolidating
with a parallel and competing line between its two termini with a view
of destroying the competition which had previously existed between the
two lines.
The Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Railroad Company was never
vested with the power to consolidate its capital stock, franchises or property with that of any other company owning a parallel-or competing line.
If, from reasons of public policy, a legislature declares that a railway company shall not become the purchaser of a parallel or competing line, the
purchase is not the less unlawful, because the parties choose to let it
take the form of a judicial sale.
Whatever is contrary to public policy or inimical to the public interests is
subject to the police power of the State, and is within legislative control; and,'in the exertion of such power, the legislature is vested with a
large discretion, which, if exercised bona fide for the protection of the
public, is beyond the reach of judicial inquiry.
Section 201 of the constitution of the State of Kentucky of 1891, providing
that " no railroad, telegraph, telephone, bridge or common carrier company shall consolidate its capital stock, franchises or property, or pool
its earnings, in whole or in part, with any other railroad, telegraph, telephone, bridge or common carrier company, owning a parallel or competing line or structure; or acquire, by purchase, lease or otherwise, any
parallel or competing line or structure, or operate the same ; nor shall
any railroad company or other common carrier combine or make any contract with the owners of any vessel that leaves or makes port in this
State, or with any common carrier, by which combination or contract the
earniings of the one doing the carrying are to be shared by the other not
doing the carrying," is a legitimate exercise of the police power of the
State, and forbids the consolidation between the Louisville and Nashville
Company and the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Company, which is
the subject of controversy in this suit, at least so far as the power to,
make it remains unexecuted.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

679

Statement of the Case.
THIS was a bill in equity, styled a petition, originally filed
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky against the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company, (hereinafter called the L. & N.
Co.,), the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Railroad Company (hereinafter called the Chesapeake Co.) and several subordinate corporations tributary to the-latter, to enjoin the L.
& N. Co. (1) from acquiring the control of, or operating, the
parallel and competing lines of railroad known as the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern system; (2) from acquiring or
operating the Short Route Railway Transfer Co., a belt line
in Louisville, and the Union Depot in Louisville, connected
therewith; and also (3) to enjoin the Chesapeake, Ohio and
Southwestern system from selling out to or permitting its
roads to be operated by its competitor, the L. & N. Co.
It was stated substantially in the Commonwealth's petition,
as its cause of action, that the L. & N. Co. owned and controlled many railroads in Kentucky, as respects which, rail:
roads owned or controlled by the other companies named are
parallel and competing; that defendants have made a contract and arrangement, whereby the L. & N. Co. is to become
the owner, and acquire a control of, the capital stock, franchises and property of the other defendant companies, to the
great injury of the Commonwealth, and in violation of section
201 of the state constitution of 1891, which reads as follows:
"SEc. 201. No railroad, telegraph, telephone, bridge or common carrier company shall consolidate its capital s.tQck, franchises or property, or pool its earnings, in whole or in part,
with any other railroad, telegraph, telephone, bridge or common carrier company, owning a parallel or competing line or
structure; or acquire, by purchase, lease or otherwise, any
parallel or competing line or structure, or operate the same;
nor shall any railroad company or other common carrier combine or make any contract with the owners of any vessel that
leaves or makes port in this State, or with any common carrier, by which combination or contract the earnings of the
one doing the carrying are to be shared by the other not
doing the carrying."
In an amended petition it was stated in substance that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

L. & N. Co. was endeavoring to acquire the capital stock,
interest in real property and mortgage securities of the other
defendant companies, in order to obtain control and ultimately
purchase at judicial sale and become the owner of, their franchises and property.
The answer denied the allegation in the form as made, but
contained an affirmative statement that the purchase of the
stock and securities referred to had already been consumnmated, and in effect admitted that the L. & N. Co. intended
to purchase the franchises and properties at judicial sale.
The L. & N. Co. was incorporated by an act of the Kentucky legislature approved March 5, 1850, the fourteenth section of wvhich act provided "1that the president and directors
of said company are hereby vested with all powers and rights
necessary to the construction of a railroad from the city of
Louisville to the Tennessee line, in the direction of Nashville,
the route, to be by them selected and determined, not exceeding sixty-six feet wide, with as many sets of tracks as they may
deem necessary; and that they may cause to be made contracts with others for making said railroad, or any part of it."
This act Was frequently amended in details unnecessary to
be noticed here, one of which, adopted March 7, 1854, declared
(section 4) "that it shall be lawful for said Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company to unite their road with any
other road connecting therewith upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the said Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company and such other company as
they may desire to unite their said road with."
On December 15, 1855, the legislature of Tennessee passed
an act to amend an act entitled "An act to charter the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, and the several adts
amending said act passed by the legislatures of Kentucky and
Tennessee," (Laws of Kentucky, 1855-6, c. 227,) under which
it had been authorized to construct its road in Tennessee*from
the Kentucky line to Nashville, the thirteenth section of which
dct provided as follows:
"SEc. 13. Be it further enacted, That this act shall take
effect from and after its passage: Pr'ovided,Nothing herein

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

881

Statement of the Case.

contained shall be construed to prevent the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company from admitting branch roads to
connect with it at any point or points to be agreed upon between said company and those who have or may subscribe
stock for the construction of any branch road. The stock subscribed, and the means created to construct such separate
branch, shall be faithfully applied to that purpose ; and said
company is hereby vested with the power and the right to
issue its bonds under the provisions of this act to obtain means
to construct and equip any branch road; the bonds to express
on their face the purpose for which they were executed; and
to secure their payment may execute a deed of trust,. or mortgage, for payment of which the rights, credits, profits, property and franchise, procured for said branch by the use of its
means, shall alone be made liable. The credit, rightsor profits
of the main stem shall not be used to create means to construct, or be made liable for any debt or liability created to
construct, branch roads; nor shall the rights, credit, property
and profits of any branch road be used to create means to
construct, or made liable for any. debt or liability created to
build the main stem; and with a view to such liabilities and
profits, said company shall keep separate accounts, exhibiting
the stock, property and debts of the main road, and each separate branch."
On January 17, 1856, the legislature of Kentucky passed an
act, thefirst section of which reenacted the act passed 'by the
legislature of Tennessee in 1855 "in the following sections
and words:" (Here follows a literal copy of the Tennessee
act.) The second section of this act vested the Louisville and
Nashville Company with power to make agreements with any
Tennessee corporation to construct a railroad in part or in
whole of the distance between Louisville and Memphis, and
running in the direction of Louisville, whereby to secure
thutual and reciprocal rights to the contracting parties, etc.
The third section was as follows: "That the said company
may, under the provisions of the thirteenth section of this
.gct," (referring evidently to the thirteenth section of the
Tennessee act,) "from time to time extend any branch road,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and may purchase and hold any road constructed by another
company, or may agree on terms to receive the cars of other
roads on their said road, but shall charge for the same the
usul freight."
At the same session, and on February 14, 1856, (Laws of
Kentucky, 1855-6, c. 148,) the legislature of Kentucky passed
what is known as the General Reservation Act, the language
of which, so far as it is material here, is as follows:
"SEc. 1. That all charters and grants of, or to corporations,
or amendments thereof, and all other statutes shall be subject
to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless
a contrary intent be therein plainly expressed: Provided,
That whilst privileges and franchises so granted may be
changed or repealed, no amendment or repeal shall impair
"
other rights previously vested.
"SEc. 3. That the provisions of this act shall only apply

to charters and acts of incorporation to be granted hereafter;
and that this act shall take effect from its passage."
At this time and up to September, 1856, the L. & N. Co.
owned only a short piece of road -thirty-one miles in length
-extending from Louisville, southwardly, to Lebanon Junction. Up to September, 1857, it owned only forty-five miles;
to September, 1858, seventy-two miles; in 1859, only one hundred and ten miles; and not till 1860 did it carry its road to
Nashville, one hundred and eighty miles. About the same
time was constructed a branch road from a point about seven
miles south of Bowling Green to the state line, which has
since been extended and is now owned and operated by it,
to Memphis, Tennessee. Subsequently it purchased and now
owns a road known as the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad, which extends from Edgefield, Tennessee, on
its main line ten miles north of Nashville, by way of Hopkinsville, Kentucky, to Henderson, and thence across the Ohio
River to Evansville,. Indiana. It also owns and operates
various branches in the State of Kentucky that diverge from
the main line eastwardly, as well as the Kentucky Central
Railroad, extedding from Cincinnati southward, and certain
branches thereof.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

683

Opinion of the Court.

Of the roads constituting the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern system, the first one extended from Paducah to Elizabetbtown, and was subsequently extended from Cecilia
Junction, six miles from Elizabethtown, to Louisville, whereby
a continuous line was formed from Louisville to Paducah,
independent of the L. & N. road. But by a subsequent lease,
amounting practically to a purchase of a road from Paducah
to Memphis, the Chesapeake Company became, about 1881,
the owner of a connected, continuous and independent railroad from Louisville by way of Cecilia Junction and Paducah
to Memphis. It also has an interest in, and control of, several
other railroads bearing the name of, and nominally held by,
the companies that built them, one of which is termed the
Short Route Railway, extending from Preston street in Louisville through the depot at Seventh and Water streets to
Twelfth street, where it connects with the main line.
Upon a hearing of the case upon pleadings and proofs, a
decree was entered by the Jeffersc circuit court in favor
of the Commonwealth, enjoining the ,roposed agreement for
consolidation, which decree was -subsequently affirmed by tho
Court of Appeals of Kentucky. 31 S.W. Rep. 476.
Whereupon the L. & N. Co. sued out a writ of error from
this court.
Mr. Helm Bruce, .Mr. Edward Baxter, and Mr. James P.
Helm for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George X. Davie and -Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey
for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE BRowN,after stating the case, delivered, the
opinion of the court.
This case turns to a certain extent upon the principles just
announced in Pearsallv. Great NAorthern Railway Company,
ante, 646, although it differs from that case in the fact that
the charter of the L. & N. Co. contains no reserved power to
alter or amend, as well as in several other minor particulars.
1. The original charter of the L. & N. Co., granted in 1850,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

was limited in its character, and authorized the company only
to construct a railroad from Louisville to the Tennessee line,
in the direction of Nashville, with as many tracks as might
be deemed necessary, but with no power to extend its lines
or to purchase, lease or consolidate with other roads.
By the act of March 7, 1851, the company was given power
to unite their road with any other road connecting therewith
upon such conditions as the two companies might agree upon.
As we have frequently held that a power to connect or unite
with another road refers merely to a physical connection of
the tracks and does not authorize 'the purchase or even the
lease of such road, or any union of their franchises, it is evident
that this act is no authority for the proposed consolidation.
Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad v. Denver & New Orleans
Railroad,110 U. S. 667; Pennsylvania Go. v. St. Zouis, Alton,
&ec. Rail-road, 118 U. S. 290 ; Oregon Railway Y. Oregonian
Railway, 130 U. S. 1; St. Louis Railroadv. Terre HauteRailroad, 145 U. S. 393; Commissioners v. Railroad Co., 50 Indi-

ana, 85, 110. The important power to purchase or consolidate
with another line cannot be inferred from. any such indefinite
language as "to unite or connect with such road." The union
referred to in this act is also limited to a union with a road
already connected with the L. & N. Co. by running into the
same town, and could have no possible relation to the acquirement of a parallel or competing line. We ordinarily speak of
two roads as connecting when they have stations in the same

city, in which case authority is given by this act to make a
mechanical union between the tracks of the two companies.
Appellant relies principally, however, upon the act of Janunary 17, 1856, the first section of which reenacted an act of the
legislature of Tennessee, passed the year before, chartering the
L. & N. Co., which last mentioned act contained sixteen sections authorizing, among other things, the issue of bonds of the
State to aid the company in building a bridge across the Cumberland River, and in purchasing iron, etc. The Kentucky act
contained but five sections in all, the third. of which provided
"that said company may, under the provisions of the thirteenth
section of this act, from time to time extend any branch road,

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD v. KENTUCKY.

685

Opinion of the Court.

and may purchase and hold any road constructed by anothr
company, or may agree on terms to receive the cars of other
roads on their said road, but shall charge for the same the
usual freight."
The thirteenth section of the Tennessee act, incorporated
into the first section of the Kentucky act, also authorized the
company to permit branch roads to connect with it at any points
to be agreed upon between the company and the stockholders
of the branch road. It also authorized the issue of bonds to
obtain the means to construct and equip any branch road, and
provided that the credits and profits of the main stem should
not be used for such purpose, nor the property and profits of
any branch road be used to build the main stem. As this section, however, was merely limited to branch roads, the L. & N.
Co. is forced to rely for its authority to acquire the control of
the Chesapeake Co. upon its power "to purchase and hold any
road constructed by another company."
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky held that the whole section, taken together, indicated that the power to purchase and
hold any road constructed by another company referred to
branch roads, which, by a previous clause of the same section,
the L. & N. Co. was authorized to construct, and that this was
also further manifested by the power given to "agree on terms
to receive the cars of other roads on their said road."
Upon the other hand, the company insists that the power
to purchase and hold other roads is not only unlimited and
extends to all other roads built or to be built, although
parallel and competing lines, but that it constitutes an irrevocable contract, which a subsequent legislature is powerless
to impair.
In construing this section we are bound to bear in mind the
general rule, so often affirmed by this court, that all doubts
with regard to the authority granted in a corporate charter
are to be resolved against the corporation, and that a surrender of the power of the legislature in any matter of public
concern must never be presumed from uncertain or equivocal
expressions. -Dubuque & Pacific Railroad v. Litchfield, 23
How. 66, 88; -Delaware Railroad Taw, 18 Wall. 206, 225;

OCTOBER TERM\1, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Bailey v. ilagwire,22 Wall. 215; Slidell v. Grandjea, 111 U. S.
412; Belmont Bridge v. Wheeling Bridge, 138 U. S. 287.
At this time (January, 1856) the only railroads in the State
of Kentucky in operation were from Louisville, eastwardly to
Lexington, and one from Lexington, northwardly by way of
Paris, to Covington. There was no road running into southern or western Kentucky, or southwardly from Louisville,
except the L. & N. Co.'s road as far as it had gone. While
the General Assembly was not only willing but anxious that
this company should have liberal and broad powers to aid it,
the question of parallel or competing lines had probably not
entered into the minds of the legislators as a contingency to
be provided against.
There are two reasons why, in our opinion, the third section
of the act of 1856 was never intended to confer a general power
to purchase roads constructed by other companies, regardless
of their relations or connections with the L. & N. road.
(1.) The language of the section is that the "company may,
under the provisions of the thirteenth section of this act," (referring to the thirteenth section of the Tennessee act, re~nacted,)
"from time to time extend" by its own construction "any
branch road." Now, as before observed, the thirteenth section of the Tennessee act refers only to branch roads, the cost
of which was to be a charge or mortgage upon the branch line,
and not upon the main stem; and it seems reasonable to infer
that the cost of whatever roads were built or purchased under
it were intended to be a charge upon the branch only, and not
upon the main line. If the limitation "under the thirteenth
section" were held to be applicable only to that part of the
third section which allows extensions of branch lines, it would
result that, if the company constructed a branch road, its cost
would be a charge on the branch line, and not upon the main
line; but if it should purchase an independent line, the cost
could be made a charge upon the main line.
(2.) It is hardly possible to suppose that the legislature intended to allow the company to "extend," that is, to construct
any extension of a branch road, and at the same time to confer an unlimited power to purchase and hold any road con-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

687

Opinion of the Court.

structed by another company. The rule, nosci.ur a 8ociis,
applied to this case would undoubtedly limit the power to
_purchase, under the general clause, to such roads as the company was authorized to build under the preceding and more
special clause. There is no .reason why a power to build
should be limited to branch roads, while the power to purchase
should be so unlimited as to authorize the company to absorb
parallel or competing lines, either within or without the State.
Additional support for this construction is also found in the
concluding words of the section empowering the coinpany " to
agree on terms to receive the cars of other roads on their said
road." This would indicate an intention to permit the company to receive upon its main line the cars of other roads constructed or purchased as feeders to that line, but would scarcely
be applicable to the cars of competing or parallel roads, which
would seldom be required to be taken upon their line.
That the General Assembly could have intended to grant
the broad powers claimed is also highly improbable in
view of an act passed a little more than two years thereafter, (January 22, 1858,) by which all railroad companies were
declared to have power and authority to make with each
other contracts of the following character: First, for the
consolidation of either the management, profits or stock of
any two or more companies, the roads of which are or shall
be so connected as to form a continuous road. Second, for
the leasing of the road of one company to another, provided
the roads so leased shall be so connected as to form a continuous line. This act is a general one, and the possibility of consolidating parallel or competing.lines was evidently considered
and reprobated.
As bearing upon the proper construction of this charter, as
well as upon the question of actual parallelism, the case of the
State v. Vanderbilt, 37 Ohio St. 590, is an instructive one.
This was an action in quo warranto to test the legality of a
consolidation of the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and
Indianapolis Railway Company and the Cincinnati, Hiamil.
ton and Dayton Railroad Company, the former of which
owned and controlled a road running from Cleveland upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Lake Erie, by the way of Columbus, to Cincinnati, and the
latter a road rumning from Toledo, at the western end of
Lake Erie, by the way of Hamilton and Dayton, to Cincinnati. The statute provided that companies might consolidate, where their lines were so constructed as to admit of the
passage of burden or passenger cars over any two or more
of such roads continuously without break or interruption.
The court held that, in view of the existence of a large commerce from the Southern States, by way of Cincinnati, to
ports upon Lake Erie, as well as from such points southerly,
by railroad lines converging at Cincinnati, these were substantially parallel and competing roads; that it might be inferred
from the record that a leading object in making the consolidation was to destroy that competition; and that upon this
state. of facts, these roads were not so constructed as to
admit the passage of burden or passenger cars over two or
more of such roads continuously. In delivering the opinion
it was observed that "where companies, situated as these are,
being parallel and competing, claim that authority to consolidate has been granted to them, they must be able to
point to words in the statute which admit of no other reasonable construction, for it will not be a~sumed that the lawmaking power has authorized the creation of a monopoly so
detrimental to the public interest."
So in Elkins N. Camden & Atlantic Railroad, 36 N. J.
Eq. 5, a statute authorized railroad companies to lease their
roads or any part of them to any other corporation or corporations of that or any other State, or to unite and consolidate, as well as merge their stock, property, franchises and
roads with those of any other company or companies; and
that after such lease or consolidation, the company acquiring
the other's road might use and operAte such road. The court
held that this did not authorize a railroad, running from Philadelphia to Atlantic City, to assume the debts and buy a
majority of the stock and bonds and the equipment of a rival
railroad running between the same termini, or to become tle
purchaser of its property at a foreclosure sale, or to control it
after such sale in a reorganization of the company. The court.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

689

Opinion of the Court.

enjoined the purchase, saying that "the purchase of a rival
railroad is (not to speak of public policy) foreign to the objects for which the defendant was incorporated. Nor can
the purchase be regarded as within the authority given by
the defendant's charter to build lateral or branch roads.
As a purchase with a view to extinguishing competition, the transaction is clearly ultra vires."
Defendant, however, further urges in support of its assumed rights under the third section of the charter of 1856,
a contemporaneous construction by the parties ii interest,
under which several lines were purchased which ran parallel
to some of its own branches, and one of which, known as the
Cecilia branch, about fifty miles in length, running substantially
parallel to its main line, which it purchased and held for a
short time, and then sold to the Chesapeake Co. These, however, were local lines, which either ran parallel to the branches
of the L. & N., such as the Owensboro and Nashville, and the
Bardstown branch, or an extension of its main line, such as the
Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington, running from Louisville
to Cincinnati, or a short line like the Cecilia branch, running
parallel to the main line; yet, as the terminus at one end or
the other was in most cases different, it can hardly be said
that any of these were competing lines, or that their purchase
showed such an acquiescence on the part of the State as to
estop it from opposing the purchase of a through line from
Louisville to Memphis, by the way of Paducah- a line which
connects the principal termini of the L. & N. Co. by a road
substantially parallel, and no part of which is more than 50
miles from the corresponding part of the L. & N. Putting the
broadest construction upon what was actually done, it amounts
to no more than that the company made several purchases of
local lines, in which the State acquiesced. That the State
may have seen fit in particular cases to ratify the acquisition
of local lines parallel to certain branch lines of the main road,
does not argue that it intended to approve the purchase of
parallel and competing through lines, especially in view of the
act of June 22, 1858, which limited the power to consolidate
or lease to roads so connected as to form a continuous line.
VOL. CLXi-44

OCTOBER TERMN,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

Indeed, these acquisitions appear to have been deemed so
little in contravention of the public policy of the State, that
the General Assembly did not hesitate to confirm them by
special acts, and to receive taxes upon them as part of the
L. & N. system.
While the doctrine of contemporaneous construction is
doubtless of great value in determining the intentions of parties to an instrument ambiguous upon its face, yet to justify
its application to a particular case, such contemporaneous construction must be shown to have been as broad as the exigencies of the case require. In this view we cannot say that a
contemporaneous construction of this- charter, which ratified
the purchase of a few short local lines, was sufficient to justify
the company in consolidating with a parallel and competing
line between its two principal termini, with a view of controlling the through traffic from the lower Mississippi to Cincinnati, and destroying the competition which had previously
existed between the two lines. It is possible that the Commonwealth might, if it had seen fit to do so, have enjoined
the acquisition of some of these parallel lines, and the fact
that it did not deem such purchases to be in contravention of
public policy ought not to estop it from setting up an opposition to another purchase, which, in its view, is detrimental to
the public interests. As is said by Mr. Justice Cooley, in his
Constitutional Limitations, (6th ed.) page 85: "A power is
frequently yielded to merely because it is claimed, and it may
be exercised for a long period in violation of the constitutional
prohibition, without the mischief which the Constitution was
designed to guard against appearing, or without any one being
sufficiently interested in the subject to raise the question; but
these circumstances cannot be allowed to sanction a clear infraction of the Constitution." We are, therefore, of opinion
that the Court of Appeals was substantially correct in saying
that "though thirty-eight years since the passage of the act
of 1856 and thirty-six since the act of 1858 had elapsed, when
this action was commenced, the L. & N. Co. never before
claimed or attempted to exercise the right to purchase and
hold parallel and competing lines, except about 1878, when

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

691

Opinion of the Court.

it purchased the road from Louisville to Cecilia Junction,
which was held only a short time and then sold to the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern Company."
That the lines proposed to be consolidated are parallel and
competing is evident from an inspection of the map, since both
connect the two important cities, Louisville and Memphis,
which constitute their termini, and are natural competitors for
the traffic from the Southwestern to the Northeastern States
by way of Cincinnati, as well as that in the opposite direction.
The object of the consolidation is obviously to enable the L. &
N. to obtain a complete monopoly of all the traffic through the
western half of the State. Conceding that that part of the
Chesapeake line which ran from Elizabethtown to Paducah
vas originally a branch line of the L. & N., and might have
been acquired as such under section 3 of the act of 1856, it
ceased to be such after the Cecilia branch was acquired, and
the line was extended from Paducah to Memphis. It then
became a parallel and competing line within the meaning of
the constitution.
In reply to the argument that millions of dollars have been
invested in the securities of the company upon the faith of
what was supposed to be its admitted powers, and that its
capital stock of $1,500,000 in 1856 has expanded to $51,000,000,
it is sufficient to say that, in making such investments, capitalists were bound to know the authority of the company under
its charter, and to put the proper interpretation upon it; and
that we are not at liberty to presume that investments were
made upon the faith of powers that do not exist; and, if they
were, the Commonwealth is not bound to respect investments
made under a misapprehension of the law. Indeed, the argument proves too much, and would justify the inference that
capitalists put their money into the road upon the assumption
that it had been given irrevocable right to absorb to itself
every road which might thereafter be constructed within the
limits of the Commonwealth.
2. Besides this, however, in order to support the proposed
consolidation of these two systems, the parties are bound to
show, not only that the L. & N. Co. was competent to buy, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that the Chesapeake Co. was also vested with power to sell.
To make a valid contract it is necessary to show that both
parties are competent to enter into the proposed stipulations.
It is a fundamental principle in the law of contracts that, to
make a valid agreement, there must be a meeting of minds,
and, obviously, if there be a disability on the part of either
party to enter into the proposed contract there can be no valid
agreement. As was said by this court in St. Louis Railroad
v. Terre Haute Railroad,145 U. S. 393, 404:: "It is unnecessary, however, to express a definitive opinion upon the question whether a contract between these parties was beyond
the corporate powers of the plaintiff, because, as held by the
decisions of this court already cited, a contract beyond the
corporate power of either party is as invalid as if beyond
the corporate powers of both, and the contract in question
was clearly beyond the corporate powers of the defendant."
See also Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. '11; Oregon
Railway v. Oregonian Railway Co., 130 U. S. 1; Pennsylvania Railroad v. St. 1ouis, Alton &c.Railroad, 118 U. S.
290; Central Transportation 0o. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139
U. S.24.
Th'e Chesapeake Co. was incorporated under an act of the
General Agsembly of Kentucky, passed in 1881, (Acts of 18S1,
p. 258,) the ninth section of which declares that the corporation should be "governed by any general law.enacted by the
lefislature of this State in regard to consolidation with parallel or competing lines." So that, although organized prior t6
the adoption of -the constitution of 1891, it became subject at
once, and as soon as said constitution was adopted, to its provisiorl declaring that no railroad should consolidate its capital
stock, franchise or propefty with that of any other owning a
parallel or competing line or structure.

The only answer attempted to this proposition is that the
cases above cited in support of the doctrine that to make a
valid sale there must be power both in the seller to sell and
in the buyer to buy, refers only to private, voluntary sales,
arranged between the companies, and. dependent upon their
respective corporate powers; and that the doctrine has no

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

693

Opinion of the Court.

application to judicial or involuntary sales, where the property
is seized upon to satisfy a debt of the corporation.
We do not understand, however, that the fact that a purchase is made at a judicial sale confers upon the purchaser
any right he is forbidden to acquire, if the purchase had been
made at private sale. If, from reasons of public policy, the
legislature declares that a railway shall not become the purchaser of a parallel or competing line, the purchase is not the
less unlawful, because the parties choose to let it take the form
of a judicial sale. A person who, by reason of any statutory
disability, such as infancy, lunacy, marriage or otherwise, is
incompetent to buy at private sale is not less incompetent
from becoming the purchaser at a judicial sale. The prohibition is not upon the power of the court foreclosing the mortgage to order a judicial sale of the property, but upon its
power to confirm a sale made to a parallel or competing road.
The allegation of the bill in this connection is that suits have
been filed upon claims against the several companies interested,
with the object of having a judicial sale of their property, so
that the L. & N. Co. may purchase the property in its own
name, or in the name of some new company or companies
organized by it or in which it shall have a controlling interest.
It is true, as was observed in Pearsallv. Tke Great Northern,
that the stockholders of the L. & N. Co. may individually
become the purchasers of the Chesapeake Co. at a judicial
sale, and may organize a new corporation, but it would still
be a corporation separate and distinct from that of the L. & N.
Co. The inhibition of the Constitution is not against the sale
to individuals, though they may chance to be stockholders
in a competing line, but against the acquisition by a railway,
in any form, of a parallel or competing line. If this could
be evaded by going through the form of a judicial sale, the
constitutional provision would be of no value.
3. But, conceding that the L. & N. Co. was vested by the
act of January 17, 1856, with the right to purchase all railroads constructed by other companies, whether parallel or
competing or not, and that by virtue of such power it might
become the purchaser of the Chesapeake system, it is still

OCTOBER TERiM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

insisted on behalf of the Commonwealth that this act was
subject to an act approved February 14, 1856, the first section
of which enacted that "all charters and grants of or to corporations, or amendments thereof, and all other statutes, shall
be subJect to amendment or repeal at the will of the legislature, unless a contrary intent be therein plainly expressed."
The third section of this act provided that the act should
apply only to "charters and acts of incorporation to be granted
hereafter; and that this act shall take effect from its passage."
The argument is that, as this act was given immediate effect,
while the former act, under a general law of the State, did
not take effect until two months from the time it was approved
by the governor, the act of February 14 was, in reality, the
prior act, and the charter of January 17 -was, in fact, granted
thereafter, within the meaning of the third section of the act
of February 14.
The answer of the defendant to this was that the thirteenth
section of the Tennessee act of 1855, which was reenacted in
the first section of the Kentucky act of January 17, provided
"that this act shall take effect from and after its passage."
If the adoption verbatim of this Tennessee act by the Kentucky legislature was sufficient to give the Kentucky act
immediate effect, then, undoubtedly, the act of February 14
was a subsequent act and did not apply to the charter of Jan:
uary 17. Upon the other hand, if the reenactment of the
thirteenth section of the Tennessee act was not intended
to give the Kentucky charter immediate effect, then this
charter did not become operative until March 17, and
thereby became subject to the reservation statute of February 14, which did take immediate effect. This question was
elaborately argued at the bar, but, for the reasons hereafter
stated, we do not consider it necessary to express a decided
opinion upon the point.
4. Whatever be the disposition of this question, and however broad the power' of the L. & IN.Co., under its charter
of 1856, we are still confronted with the proposition that the
proposed consolidation of these two railway systems is a clear
violation of section 201 of the constitution, which forbids the

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

695

Opinion of the Court.

consolidation of the stock, franchises or property, as well as
the purchase and lease of parallel and competing lines. Unless this section impairs the obligation of the contract contained in the charter, it operates as a repeal of any power
that may possibly be deduced from such charter to purchase,
lease or consolidate with any parallel or competing line. In
this particular the case differs from that of Pearsallv. Great
Northern Railway, just decided, only in the fact that the
charter of the Great Northern, while conferring a power to
consolidate with other roads in much clearer and more explicit language than was used in the L. & N. charter, also
contained in section 17 the reservation of a power to amend
in any manner not destroying or impairing the vested rights
of the corporation. The opinion in that case dealt largely
with the question whether a subsequent act of the legislature
taking away this power so long as it was unexecuted, and so
far as it applied to parallel or competing lines, impaired a
vested right. Our conclusion was that it did not.
We regard the issue presented in this case as involving
practically the same question. While there is no general
reservation clause in the charter of the L. & N. Co., we
think, for the reasons stated in the Pearsallcase, that under
its police power the people, in their sovereign capacity, or the
legislature, as their representatives, may deal with the charter
of a railway corporation, so far as is necessary for the protection of the lives, health and safety of its passengers or the
public, or for the security of property or the conservation of
the public interests, provided, of course, that no vested rights
are thereby impaired. In other words, the legislature may
not destroy vested rights, whether they are expressly prohibited from doing so or not, but otherwise may legislate
with respect to corporations, whether expressly permitted to
do so or not. While the police power has been most frequently exercised with respect to matters which concern
the public health, safety or morals, we have frequently held
that corporations engaged in a public service are subject to
legislative control, so far as it becomes necessary for the
protection of the public interests. In the case of Xa'nn v.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, M r. Chief Justice Waite said: "Property does become clothed with a public interest when used
in a manner to make it of public consequence, and affect the
community at large. When, therefore, one devotes his property to a use in which the public has an interest, he, in effect,
grants to the public an interest in that use, and must submit
to be controlled by the public for the common good, to the
extent of the interest he has thus created. He may withdraw his grant by discontinuing the use; but so long as he
maintains the use, he must submit to the control."
There was a difference of opinion in the court as to whether
this language applied to elevators in such manner as to empower the legislature to fix their charges; but it has been too
often held that railways were public highways, and their functions were those of the State, though their ownership was private, and that they were subject to control for the common
good, to be now open to question. It was so expressly stated
in Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 *Wall. 678, 694. This power was
held to extend, in -New Yorke v. .ffiln, 11 Pet. 102, to a
law requiring the masters of emigrant vessels to report an
account of their passengers; in the Railroad Commission
cases, 116 U. S.307, to the right of a State to reasonably limit
the amount of charges by a railway company for the transportation of persons and property within its jurisdiction, notwith
standing a statute which granted to it the right "from time to
time to fix, regulate and receive the tolls and charges by them
to be received for transportation;" in _M ugler v. Kansas, 123
U. S.623, to legislation which prohibited the manufacture of
intoxicating liquors within the limits of the State, even as to
persons who, at the time, happened to own property, whose
chief value consisted in its fitness for such manufacturing purposes; in Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S.174, to the
prevention of extortion by railways, by unreasonable charges,
and favoritism by discriminations; in Ch4arlotte &c. Railroad
v. Gibbes, 142 U. S.386, to a requirement that the salaries and
expenses of a state railroad commission be borne by the railroad corporations within the State; in New York & New
England Railroad v. Bristol, 151 U. S.556, to a statute com-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

697

Opinion of the Court.

pelling the removal of. grade crossings; in Commonwealth v.
Alger, 7 Cushing, 53, to the establishment of harbor lines,
beyond which land owners shall not exten~d their wharves;
and in Eagle Insurance Co. v. Ohio, 153 U. S. 446, to a requirement that insurance companies make returns to the
proper state officers of their business conditions, etc., notwithstanding the company be organized under a special charter,
which did not in terms require it to make such return.
Indeed, it was broadly held in Chicago Life Insurance Co.
v. Yeedles, 113 U. S. 574, that the grant of a corporate franchise is necessarily subject to the condition that the privileges
and franchises conferred shall not be abused, or employed to
defeat the ends for which they were conferred; and that,
when abused or misemployed, they may be withdrawn by
proceedings consistent with law. It was said in this case that
an insurance corporation was subject to such reasonable regulations as the legislature might from time to time prescribe,
for the general conduct of its affairs, serving only to secure the
ends for which it was created, and not materially interfering
with the privileges granted to it. "It would be extraordinary," said the court, (page 580,) "if the legislative department
of a government, charged with the duty of enacting such laws
as may promote the health, the morals and the prosperity of
the people, might not, when unrestrained by constitutional
limitations upon its authority, provide, by reasonable regulations, against the misuse of special corporate privileges which
it has granted, and which could not, except by its sanction,
express or implied,-have been exercised at all." It was further held that the establishment against such a corporationbefore a judicial tribunal that it was insolvent, or that its condition was such as to render its conti nuance in business hazardous to the public; or that it had exceeded its corporate
powers; or that it had violated the rules, restrictions or conditions prescribed by law, constituted a sufficient reason for
the State, which created it, to reclaim the franchises and privileges granted to it.
We think that the principle of these. cases applies to the
power of the legislature to forbid the consolidation of parallel

OCTOBER TERI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

or competing lines, whenever, in its opinion, such consolidation
is calculated to affect injuriously the public interests. Not
only is the purchase of stock in another company beyond the
power of a railroad corporation in the absence of an express
stipulation in the charter, but the purchase of such stock in a
rival and competing line is held to be contrary to public policy
and void. Cook on Stockholders, ยง 315; Centrai Railroad
Co. v. Collins, 40 Georgia, 582; Ilazlehurst v. Savannah cc.
Railroad Co., 43 Georgia, 13; Elkins v. Camden & Atlantic
RailroadCo., 36 N. J. Eq. 5. The doctrine is peculiarly applicable to this case, in which it is shown that the Chesapeake Co.
was largely aided in its construction by contributions from
municipalities along its line for the very purpose of obtaining
competition with the L. & N. Co. -a purpose which would,
of course, be defeated by a combination with it. This restriction upon the unlimited power to consolidate with other roads
is not, as the plaintiff in error suggests, called for by any new
view of commercial policy, but in virtue of a settled policy
which has obtained in Kentucky since 1858, in Minnesota since
1874, in Ohio since 1851, in New Hampshire since 1867, and
by more recent enactments in some dozen other States-a
policy which has not only found a place in the statute law of
such States as apprehended evil effects from such consolidations, but has been declared by the courts to be necessary to
protect the public from the establishment of monopolies: Indeed, the unanimity -with which the States have legislated
against the consolidation of competing lines shows that it is
not the result of a local prejudice, but of -a general sentiment
that such. monopolies are reprehensible. The fact that, in certain cases, the. le islature has seen fit to sanction the consolidation of parallel roads does not militate against the general
principle that the consolidation of competing lines is contrary
to public polidy: Parallel lines are not necessarily competing
lines, as they not infrequently connect entirely different termini and command the traffic of distipct territories. For instance, a line from Toledo to Cincinnati is substantially parallel
with another from Chicago to Cairo, but they could scarcely be
called competing, since one is dependent upon the traffic of

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

699

Opinion of the Court.

the Northwest, while Cincinnati is the southern outlet of the
traffic of the Northeastern States and the lower lakes. Another familiar instance is that of the three north and south
railways through the State of Connecticut, one from Bridgeport to Pittsfield, in Massachusetts, another from New Haven
to Springfield, and another from Norwich to Worcester. These
are strictly parallel lines, but in only a limited sense competing, since they are between different termini, and each is required for the trade of its own section of the State. Even in
the present case the competition is mostly confined to the
through traffic. Considerations of this kind may induce legislatures, in particular instances, to permit the consolidation of
parallel roads without intending thereby to relinquish their
right to forbid the consolidation of such parallel lines as are
in fact competing.
Permission to consolidate such roads is no more to be taken
as an approval of a general policy of consolidation than are
the laws which have been repeatedly upheld by this court,
granting corporations exclusive privileges to supply municipalities with the comforts of life for a certain number of years,
of which class of monopolies the one upheld in New Orleans
Gas Oo. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S.650, is a distinguished
example. Such cases are, however, exceptional, and rest upon
the theory of an authority expressly vested in the corporation
for a limited time, in consideration of benefits likely to accrue
to the public from the establishment of a particular industry.
Even in such cases, however, we have held that the monopoly
may be modified or abrogated, if it proved to be prejudicial to
tie public health or public morals. Butchers' Union Co. v.
Cresdent City Co., 111 U. S. 746. In this case Air. Justice
Miller, in delivering the opinion of the court, observed, p. 750:
"While we are not prepared to say that the legislature can
make valid contracts on no subject embraced in the largest
definition of the police power, we think that, in regard to two
subjects so embraced, it cannot, by any contract, limit the exercise of such powers to the prejudice of the general welfare.
These are the public health and public morals. The preservation of these is so necessary to the best interests of social organi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

zation that a wise policy forbids the legislative body to divest
itself of the power to enact laws for the preservation of health
and the repression of crime." To the same effect are Boyd v.
Alabama, 94 U. S. 645 ; Beer Go. v. Massachusetts,97 U. S. 25.
There are doubtless cases where the police power has been
invoked to justify acts of the legislature which were dictated
to a certain extent by local interests, or with the effect of
unduly burdening or interfering with foreign or interstate
commerce. Within this category are laws levying taxes upon
alien passengers arriving from foreign ports, for the use of
hospitals, The Passengercases, 7 how. 283; requiring a bond
to be given for every such passenger to indemnify the State
against expense for the relief or support of the person named
in the bond, Henderson v. -Yew York, 92 U. S. 259; even
though such bonds be limited to lewd and debauched women,
Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S.275; prohibiting the driving
or conveying of foreign cattle into the State between certain
dates, Railroad Co. v. Ilusen, 95 U. S. 465; taxing persons
from other States engaged in selling or soliciting the sale of
liquors, to be shipped into the State from places without it,
without imposing a tax upon similar agents for manufacturers
within the State, lMalling v. Michigan, 116 U. S.446; T-elton,
v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; statutes requiring inspection, before
slaughtering, of cattle, sheep and swine designed for slaughter
for human food, so far as they apply to foreign meats, -Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; a similar statute prohibiting
the sale of meat from animals slaughtered one hundred miles
or more from the place at which it was offered for sale, unless
previously inspected by local inspectors, Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S.78; and finally, to statutes requiring a license, under
onerous conditions, from the agents of foreign express companies, Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.47.
These cases, however, do not infringe upon the general
principle, so frequently declared, that where the police power
is invoked in good faith for the prohibition of a practice which
the legislature has declared to be detrimental to the public
interests, it will be sustained, wherever it can be done without the impairment of vested rights. Notwithstanding these

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

701

Opinion of the Court.

cases, the general rule holds good that whatever is contrary
to public policy or inimical to the public interests is subject
to the police power of the State, and within legislative control, and in the exertion of such power the legislature is vested
with a large discretion, which, if exercised bona fide for the
protection of the public, is beyond the reach of judicial
inquiry.
5. But little need be said in answer to the final contention
of the plaintiff in error, that the assumption of a right to forbid the consolidation of parallel and competing lines is an
interference with the power of Congress over interstate commerce. The same remark may be made with respect to all
police regulations of interstate railways. All such regulations
interfere indirectly, more or less, with commerce between the
States, in the fact that they impose a burden upon the instruments of such commerce, and add something to the cost of
transportation, by the expense incurred in conforming to such
regulations. These are, however, like the taxes imposed upon
railways and their rolling stock, which are more or less, according to the policy of the State within which the roads are
operated, but are still within the competency of the legislature
to impose. It is otherwise, however, with respect to taxes
upon their franchises and receipts from interstate commerce,
which are treated as a direct burden. There are certain intimations in some of our opinions, which might perhaps lead
to an inference that the police power cannot be exercised over
a subject confined exclusively to Congress by the Federal
Constitution. But while this is true with respect to the commerce itself, it is not true with respect to the instruments of
such commerce.
It was said in Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 103, 104, and
quoted with approbation in Plumley v. .Massachusetts, 155
U. S.461, that "in conferring upon Congress the regulation
of commerce, it was never intended to cut the States off from
legislating on all subjects relating to the health, life and safety.
of their citizens, though the legislation might indirectly affect
the commerce of the country. Legislation, in a great variety
of ways, may affect commerce and persons engaged in it with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

out constituting a regulation of it, within the meaning of the
Constitution,
.
.
and it may be said, generally, that the
legislation of a State, not directed against commerce or any of
its regulations, but relating to the rights, duties and liabilities
of citizens, and only indirectly and remotely affecting the
operations of commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens
within its territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or water, or
engaged in commerce foreign or interstate, or in any other
pursuit."
It has never been supposed that the dominant power of
Congress over interstate commerce took from the States the
power of legislation with respect to the instruments of such
commerce, so far as the legislation was within its ordinary
police powers, Nearly all the railways in' the country have
been constructed under state authority, and it cannot be supposed that they intended to abandon their power over them
as soon as they were finished. The power to construct them
involves necessarily the power to impose such regulations
upon their operation as a sound regard for the interests of the
public may seem to render desirable. In the division of authority with respect to interstate railways Congress reserves
to itself the superior right to control their commerce and forbid interference therewith; while to the States remains the
power to create and to regulate the instruments of such commerce, so far as necessary to the conservation of the public
interests.
If it be assumed that the States have no right to forbid the
consolidation of competing lines, because the whole subject is
within the control of Congress, it would necessarily follow
that Congress would have the power to authorize such consolidation in defiance of state legislation - a proposition which
only needs to be stated to demonstrate its unsoundness. As
we have already said, the power of one railway corporation
to purchase the stock and franchises of another must be conferred by express language to that effect in the charter, and
hence, if the charter of the L. & N. Co. had been silent upon
that point, it will be conceded that it would have no power
to make the proposed purchase in this case. As the power

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D v. KENTUCKY.

703

Opinion of the Court.

to purchase, then, is derivable from the State, the State may
accompany it with such limitations as it may choose to impose.
Its results, then, from the argument of the appellant that, if
there be any interference with interstate commerce it is in
iinposing limitations upon the exercise of a right which did
not previously exist, and hence, if the State permits such
purchase or consolidation, it is bound to extend the authority to every possible case, or expose itself to the charge of
interfering with commerce. This proposition is obviously
untenable.
While the constitutional power of the State in this particular has never been formally passed upon by this court, the
power of state legislatures to impose this restriction upon
the general authority to consolidate has been recognized in
a number of cases. Railroad Co. v. faryland, 21 Wall. 456,
470; Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Wallace v. Loomis, 97
U. S. 146, 154; New Buffalo v. Iron Co., 105 U. S. 73; Leavenworth v. Chicago &c. Railway, 134 U. S. 688, 699; Livingston County v. Portsmouth Bank, 128 U. S. 102; Keokuc &
IFestern Railroadv. .Missouri,152 U. S. 301 ; Ashley v. Ryan,
153 U. S. 436. In the last case it was broadly held that a
State, in permitting railway companies to consolidate, might
impose such conditions as it deemed proper, and that the
acceptance of the franchise implied a submission to the conditions, without which it could not have been obtained.
The power to forbid such purchase or consolidation with
competing lines has been directly upheld in a large number
of cases in the state courts, in some of which cases a violation
of the commerce clause was suggested, and in others it was
not. .tafer v. Cincinnati, Ihamilton & Dayton Railroad,29
Wkly Law Bull. 68; State v. Atchison & Red River Railroad,
2-4 Nebraska, 143; Gulf, Col. & Santa F9 Railway v. State,
72 Texas, 404; East Line &c. Railway v. Rushing, 69 Texas,
306; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Commonwealth, 7 Atl. Rep.
368 ; Montgomery's Appeal, 136 Penn. St. 96 ; Currierv. Concord Railroad,48 N. H. 321; Texas & Pacific Railway Co.
v. Southern Pacific Railway Co., 41 La. Ann. 970. See also
Langdon v. Branch, 37 Fed. Rep. 449; Ha.milton v. Savannah

OCTOBER TERM\f, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

&c. Railroad,49 Fed. Rep. 412; Clark v. Central Railroad,
50 Fed. Rep. 338; Kimball v. .Atchison,, To pekea &c. Railroad
Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 888.
In conclusion we are of opinion
1. That a general right to purchase or consolidate with
other roads was never conferred upon the L. & N. Co.
2. That the Chesapeake Co. was never vested with the
power to consolidate its capital stock, franchises or property
with that of any other road owning a parallel or competing
line.
3. That, conceding that the requisite power existed in both
the above companies, section 201 of the constitution of 1891
was a legitimate exercise of the police power of the State, and
forbade such consolidation, at least so far as such power remained unexecuted.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky is, therefore,
Afifrmed.
AIR. JUSTIcE BREWER

the result.

and MR.

JUSTIcE WHITE

concurred in

