UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLAGHAN.

91

Statement of the Case.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. CALLAGHAN.
ERROR TO THE

UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 21.

Submitted January 22, 1896. -Decided

March 2,1896.

When the bond, In a case brought here by writ of error, is defective, this
court will generally allow a proper bond to be filed, if necessary.
An exception to the refusal of the trial court to find for the defendant is.
waived, if made by defendant without resting his case.
Where propositions submitted to a jury are excepted to in mass, the exception will be overruled provided any of the propositions be correct.
Where a general exception is taken to the refusal of a series of instructions,
It will not be considered if any one of the propositions is unsound.

THIS was an action brought by James Callaghan against the
Union Pacific Railwyay Company, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado, to recover damages
for injuries received by him through the alleged negligence of
defendant. The evidence tended to establish these facts: On
August 18, 1890, a repair train operated by defendant, consisting of five flat cars, loaded with fimber to be used in repairing
bridges, three box cars, and a caboose, in running from Trinidad to Trinchera, went through a defective bridge, and Callaghan, who was riding on the train, was injured.
Heavy storms had prevailed during the preceding week,
causing extensive washouts and damages to the roadbed and
bridges, so that none but repair trains had passed over the line
between Trinidad and Trinchera for three days.
Callaghan was a section foreman on a branch railroad from
Trinidad to Sopris, and some time on August 17 he received
orders from the superintendent of the railway company to
take all the men in his section and assist in repairing the line
between Trinidad and Trinchera, and accordingly went to
Trinidad, where he was joined by some other section foremen
with their crews, all being under one De Remer, a contractor

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in the employment of the company, who had been called in to
assist in repairing the road, but who had no control over the
management of the train, which was in charge of a conductor
with an engineer and fireman.
The train left Trinidad about five P.m., Sunday, the .17th,

pursuant to orders received from the superintendent, then at
Trinchera, and who had that day examined the bridge, which
subsequently fell, but so far as appeared gave no directions or
warning to De Remer, or the trainmen, in respect of its condition. The train proceeded slowly duringthe night, De Remer
and a track walker going in front with a lantern, and before
morning they found one bridge washed out and another rendered dangerous by floods, and repaired them. The bridge
where the-accident occurred was about half a mile north of
Trinchera and three miles south of Adair, another station on
the road. The approaches at each end of it had been washed
away for over fifteen or twenty feet,.so that it was unsafe.
The foreman of that section discovered its condition on the
17th, and caused the usual danger signal, a red flag, to be
placed along the road between the rails at about seven hundred feet north of the bridge, and its condition was known to
the road master as well as to the superintendent before .the
train left Trinidad.
When the train reached Adair it was running about fifteen
miles an hour. The section foreman was there and signalled
the train to stop for the purpose of telling them about the
bridge, and if it had stopped, would have done so. The engineer saw his signal and commenced to stop, and had slowed
up to about four miles an hour, when the conductor signalled
him to go ahead. The train then went on without giving the
section foreman any opportunity to give information concerning the danger. The bridge could be seen for about nine
hundred feet north on the road, but the engineer apparently
nteither saw its 'condition nor the red flag, but drove his
train upon it, and the car upon which Callaghan was riding
went through.
At the conclusion of defendant's evidence, except reading
the rules, defendant asked the court to instruct the jury that

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLAGHAN.

93

Statement of the Case.

there was no evidence sufficient to warrant a verdict for plaintiff, which request was denied, and defendant excepted. Defendant then introduced in evidence the company's rule 227,
which read as follows:
"In case of an extraordinary rain storm or high water,
trains must be brought to a stop, and a man sent out to examine bridges, trestles, culverts and other points liable to damage,
before passing over. Conductors will make careful inquiry at
all stopping places, and, when thought advisable, make extra
stops to ascertain the extent and severity of storms, taking no
risk. In case of doubt as to the safety of proceeding, they
will place their trains upon a siding, and remain there until
certain it is safe to proceed."
Thereupon plaintiff offered to introduce evidence showing
that there was a conductor on the train. Defendant then
asked the court to give to the jury the following instructions:
"1. The court is asked to instruct the jury that, under the
evidence in this case, the accident appears to have been caused
by the failure of the engineer of the work train to observe the
rules and regulations of the company in respect to running
trains in cases of extraordinary floods, etc., and in his failure
to observe the danger signal that, according to the evidence,
had been placed in places where he ought to have seen the
same in the exercise of the care that was required of him in
respect thereto.
"2. The court is asked to instruct the jury that they are
not at liberty to infer from the evidence in the case that the
accident was caused by the negligence of the conductor in
signalling the engineer to proceed after the train had slowed
down, since such signal to the engineer in nowise released the
engineer from care in respect to observance of all precautions
necessary to prevent an accident under the .circumstances, the
evidence showing that the engineer must have been aware of
the likelihood of danger at any place along the line.
"3. The bourt is asked to instruct the jury that the mere
fact that the accident would not probably have happened if
the conductor had allowed the train to be brought to a stop
at Adair, affords no ground for saying that not stopping the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for the Motion.

train at Adair was the cause of the accident, since it is true
that if the train had not started from Trinidad or Adair or
run at all the accident would not have happened, and the
mere fact of starting the train, or continuing the train in
motion after it had started, does not make the running of the
train under those circumstances the proximate cause of the
accident by which the plaintiff was injured.
"4. The court is asked to instruct the jury, that the jury
are not at liberty to infer, or even from the mere fact that
the conductor gave signal to proceed after the engineer had
slowed up at Adair was the proximate cause of the injury to
the plaintiff, since such signal to proceed can be held to proceed in precisely the same manner as the engineer was bound
to proceed under the rules and regulations of the company
under which he was acting, and in view of what the engineer
knew of the dangers he was bound to apprehend from the
floods, etc., that had existed for some days prior to the accident; and that even if the jury believe from the evidence it
was negligent in the conductor to proceed after he had slowed
down, yet the plaintiff will not be entitled to recover because
of such negligence of the conductor unless they further believe
from the evidence that such negligence was the proximate
cause of the injury."
The record then states: "But the court refused to give each
and every of said instructions; to which ruling of the court,
the defendant, by its counsel, then and there duly excepted."
The court thereupon charged the jury at large upon the whole
case. No exception was taken to any part of the charge:
The jury found fof plaintiff, judgment was entered on the
verdict, the cause taken on error to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and the judgment affirmed.
56 Fed. Rep. 988. This writ of error was then allowed and a
supersedeas bond given and approved, in which no penal sum
was named. A motion to dismiss or affirrr was submitted.
Callaghan subsequently died and the cause was revived in the
name of Anna Callaghan, administratrix, etc.
.Mr.C. S. Thomas and Mr. IF. 1. Bryant for the motion.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. CALLAGHAN.

95

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. John F. Dillon and _Mr. John M. Thurston opposing.
MR. ClIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We should not dismiss this writ of error on account of the
defective character of the bond but allow a proper bond to be
filed, if necessary, which in this instance it is not, as the motion to affirm must be sustained.
It is settled that an exception to the refusal of the trial court
to instruct the jury to find for the defendant is waived if made
by defendant without resting his case. The question goes to
the sufficiency of the evidence, and that is, of course, of the
entire evidence. Columbia & Puget Sound Railroadv. flawthorne, 144 U. S. 202, 206. After defendant's motion for an
instruction in its favor was denied, it put in evidence its rule 227,
which manifestly might have had an important bearing. The
motion was not renewed, and we think the action of the court
cannot be assigned for error.
Again, it is firmly established that where propositions submitted to a jury are excepted to, in mass, the exception will
be overruled provided any of the propositions be correct, and
where a general exception is taken to the refusal of a series of
instructions, it will not be considered if any one of the propositions is unsound. Newport Nrews and Mlississippi Valley Co.
v. Pace, 158 U. S. 36. It was contended by defendant that the
accident was the result of the engineers negligence alone, and
that, therefore, plaintiff could not recover. In the light of thew
evidence the first instruction requested by defendant was properly refused, and, without considering the others, the exception
as taken to the ruling of the court must fail. And no exception was saved to any of the instructions given by the court on
the whole case.
Judgment affirraed.

