ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

Instead of leaving open the question whether the United
States was liable to suit, as upon implied contract, the prayer
for injunction, if denied, should have been denied upon the
ground, and only upon the ground, that the plaintiff had
a complete and adequate remedy by a suit against the goveminent.
MR. JUsTIcE

PEoKHAm, not having been a member of the

court when this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE SOUTH-

ERN DISTRIOT OF NEW YORX.
No. 424. Argued October 29, 1895.

Decided January 2T, 1896.

The constitutional right of a defendant to be informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him entitles him to insist, at the outset,
by demurrer or by motion to quash, and, after verdict, by nrotion in arrest of judgment, that the indictment shall apprise him of the crime
charged with such reasonable certainty that he can make his defence
and protect himself after judgment against another prosecutign for the
same offence; and this right is not infringed by the omission from the
indictment of indecent and obscene matter, alleged as not proper to be
spread upon the records of the court, provided the crime charged, however general the language used, is yet so described as reasonably to inform the accused of the nature of the charge sought to be established
against him; and, in such case, the accused may apply to the court before the trial Is entered upon for a bill of particulars, showing what
parts of the paper would ble relied- on by the prosecution as being obscene, lewd, and lascivious, which motion will be granted or refused, as
the court, in the exercise of a sound legal discretion, may find necessary
to the ends of justice.
The inquiry, in proceedings under Rev. Stat. § 3893, is whether the paper
charged to have been obscene, lewd, and lascivious was in fact of that
character, and if it whs of that character and was deposited in the mail
by one who knew or had notice at the time of its contents, the offence is
complete, although the defendant himself did not regard the paper as
one that the statute forbade to be carried in the mails.
Every one who uses the mails of the United States for carrying papers or
publications must take notice of what, in this enlightened age, is meant

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
by decency, purity, and chastity in social life, and what must be deemed
obscene, lewd, and lascivious.
When the evidence before the jury, if clear and uncontradieted upon any
issue made by the parties, presents a question of law, the court can, without usurping the functions of the jury, instruct them as to the principles
applicable to the case made by such evidence.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr.William N. Cohen for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
error.

MR. JusTICE fRl&LAr delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was indicted under section 3893 of
the Revised Statutes, providing that "every obscene, lewd, or
lascivious book, pamphlet, picture, paper, writing, print, or
other publication of an indecent character, .
.
and every
article or thing intended or adapted for any indecent or immoral use, and every written or printed card, circular, book,
pamphlet, advertisement, or notice of any kind giving information, directly or indirectly, where, or how, or of whom, or
by what means, any of the hereinbefore mentioned matters,
articles, or things may be obtained or made, . . . are
hereby declared to be non-mailable matter, and shall not be
conveyed in the mails, nor delivered from any post office nor
by any letter carrier; and any person who shall knowingly
deposit, or cause to be deposited, for mailing or delivery, anything declared by this section to be non-mailable matter, and
any person who shall knowingly take the same, or cause the
same to be taken, from the mails, for the purpose of circulating, or disposing of, or of aiding in the circulation or disposition
of the same, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall for each and every offence be fined not less than one
hundred dollars nor more than five thousand dollars, or imprisoned at hard labor not less than one year nor more than
ten years, or both, at the discretion of the court.
"
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and the trial was entered

ROSEN

.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

upon without objection in any form to the indictment as not
sufficiently informing the defendant of the nature of the
charge against him.
A verdict of guilty having been returned, the accused moved
for a new trial upon the ground, among others, that the indictment was fatally defective in matters of substance. That
motion was denied.
The defendant thereupon moved in arrest of judgment upon
the.ground that the indictment did not charge that he knew,
at the time, what were the contents of the paper deposited in
the mail and alleged to be lewd, obscene, and lascivious. This
motion was also denied, and the accused was sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor during a period of thirteen months,
and to pay a fine of one dollar.
The paper, "Broadway," referred to in th indictment, was
produced in evidence, first, by the United States, and afterwards by the accused. The copy read in evidence by the
government was the one which, it was admitted at the trial,
the defendant had caused to be deposited in the mail. The
pictures of females appearing in that copy were, by direction
of the defendant, partially covered with lamp black that could
be easily, erased with a piece of bread. The object of sending
them out in 'that condition was, of course, te excite a curiosity
to know what was thus concealed. The accused read in evidence a copy that he characterized as a "clean" one, and in
which the pictures of females, in different attitudes of indecency, were not obscured by lamp black.
The defendant having indicated his purpose to bring the
case here for review, the court below ordered these papers to
be sent to the clerk of this court with the transcript of the
proceedings below.
1. The first contention of the plaintiff in error is, that the
indictment was fatally defective in not alleging that the paper
in question was deposited in the mail with knowledge on his
part that it was obscene, lewd, and lascivious.
The indictment charged that the accused, on the 24th day
of April, 1893, within the Southern District of New York,
"did unlawfully, wilfully, and knowingly deposit and cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to be deposited in the post office of the city of New York,
for mailing and delivery by the post office establishment of
the United States, a certain obscene, lewd, and lascivious
paper; which said paper then and there, on the first page
thereof, was entitled 'Tenderloin Number, Broadway,' and on
the same page were printed the words and figures following
-that
is to say: IVolume II, number 27; trade-mark, 1892 ;
by Lew :Rosen; New York, Saturday, April 15, 1893; ten
cents a copy, $4.00 a year, in advance;' and thereupon, on
the same page, is a picture of a cab, horse, driver, and the
figure of a female, together (underneath the said picture) with
the word 'tenderloineuse,' and the said paper consists of
twelve pages, minute descriptions of which, with the pictures
therein and thereon, would be offensive to the court and improper to spread upon the records of the court, because of
their obscene, lewd, and indecent matters; and the said paper,
on the said twenty-fourth day of April, in the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety-three, was enclosed in a wrapper
and addressed as follows -that is to say, ' Mr. Geo. Edwards,
P. 0. box 510, Summit, N. J.' - against the peace of the
United States and their dignity and contrary to the statute of
the United States in such case made and provided."
Undoubtedly the mere depositing in the. mail of a writing,
paper, or other publication of an obscene, lewd, or lascivious
oharacter is not an offence under the statute if the person
making the deposit was, at the time and in good faith, without knowledge, information, or notice -of its contents. The
indictment would have been in better form if it had more
distinctly charged that the accused was aware-of its character.
But this defect should be regarded, after verdict and under
the circumstances attending the trial, as one of form under
section 1025 of the Revised Statutes providing that the proceedings on an indictment found by a grand jury in any Distrfct, Circuit, or other court of the United States, shall not be
affected "by reason of any defect or imperfection in matter
of form only, which shall not tend to the prejudice of the
defendant."
United States v. Chase, 27 Fed. Rep. 807; U 'ited
States v. Clark, 37 Fed. Rep. 106.

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The indictment on its face implies that the defendant owned
or managed the paper Broadway. He admitted at the trial
that he owned and controlled it. He did not pretend that he
was ignorant at the time of the contents of the particular
number that he caused to be put in the post office at New
York. The general charge that he "unlawfully, wilfully, and
knowingly deposited and caused to be deposited in the post
office

.

.

.

a certain obscene, lewd, and lascivious paper "-

describing it by its name, volume, number, date of trade-mark,
date of issue, and as having on it the name of Lew Rosen,
proprietor, the same name borde by the defendant-may,
not unreasonably, be construed as meaning that the defendant was, and must have been, aware of the nature of its
contents at the time he caused it to be put into the post
office for transmission and delivery. Of course he did not
understand the government as claiming that the mere depositing in the post office of an obscene, lewd, and lascivious paper
was an offence under the statute, if the'person so depositing
it had neither knowledge nor notice, at the time, of its character or contents. He must have understood from the words
of the indictment that the government imputed to him knowledge or notice of the contents of the-paper so deposited.
In their ordinary acceptation, the words "unlawfully, wilfully, and knowingly" when applied to an act or thing done,
import knowledge of the act or thing so done, as well as an
evil intent or bad purpose in doing such thing; and when
used in an indictment in connection with the charge of having
deposited in the mails an obscene, lewd, and lascivious paper,
contrary to the statute in such case made and provided, could
not have been construed as applying to the mere depositing
in the mail of a paper the contents of which at the time were
wholly unknown to the person depositing it. The case is
therefore not one of the total omission from -the indictment
of an essential averment, but, at most, one of the inaccurate
or imperfect statement of a fact; and such statement, after
verdict, may be taken in the broadest sense authorized by the
words used, even if it be adverse to the accused.
2. The defendant also contends that the indictment was
voL. OL XI

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Courti

fatally defective, in that it did not set out with reasonable
particularity those parts of the paper relied on to support the
charge in the indictment. He insists that the omission from
the indictment of a description of the pictures of female figures found in the paper was in violation of the constitutional
guaranty that the defendant in a criminal case shall be informed of the nat.ure and cause of the accusation against him.
Sixth Amendment.
A defendant is informed of the nature and cause of the accusation against him if the indictment contains such description of the offence charged as will enable him to make his
defence and to plead the judgment in bar of any further
prosecution for the same crime. Does the indictment in this
case meet these requirements? It describes the paper alleged
to be obscene, lewd, and lascivious with such minuteness as to
leave no possible doubt as, to its identity. If the defendant
did not have in his possession or could not procure a duplicate
of such paper, he could have applied to the court for an order
that he be furnished with a bill of particulars to the end that
he might properly defend himself at the trial. United States
v. Bennett, 16 Blatchford, 338, 351; Riex v. llodgsiom, 3 Car.
& P. 422; Wharton's Cr. P1. & Pr. § 702. He made no such
application but went to trial without suggesting that he was
not sufficiently informed by the indictment of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him. When the paper in
question was produced in evidence he made no objectiori to it
as not being sufficiently described in the indictment, but at
the conclusion of the evidence on the part of the prosecution
moved to dismiss on the ground that the paper was not obscene. This motion having been overruled he testified in his
own behalf, offering in evidence a duplicate of the same paper,
admitting that lamp black - capable of being easily removed
so as to bring each offensive picture in full view of any person
receiving or-inspecting the paper- had by his direction been
put on the entire edition of ,April 15, 1893. He now insists
that the indictment was fatally defective, because it did not
disclose in detail the contents of the twelve pages that were
charged to constitute an obscene, lewd, and lascivious paper.

ROSEN v. UNITED STATE&
Opinion of the Court.

If it be said that he did not know what part of the twelve
pages were considered by the grand jury as obscene, lewd, and
lascivious, the answer is that he was not entitled to know
what passed in the conferences of grand jurors. He was not
entitled to show, as matter of defence, that the grand jury
proceeded on insufficient grounds. He had to meet only the
case made by the indictment and by the evidence adduced by
the government. And if he wished to be informed, before
entering upon the trial, what particular parts of the paper
would be relied on as bringing the case within the statute, he
could, as already suggested, have applied for a bill of particulars, which the court, in the exercise of a sound legal discre
tion, might have granted or refused as the ends of justice
required.
The principal authority relied on in support of the defendant's contention is the case in England of an indictment for
publishing an obscene libel, namely, "a certain indecent,
lewd, filthy, and obscene book called 'Fruits of Philosophy,'
thereby contaminating, vitiating, and corrupting the morals,
etc." The jury found that the book was obscene, and a
motion in arrest of judgment was made by the accused. The
motion was denied, Cockburn, 0. J., Mellor, J., concurring,
held: "If the omission is. in the indictment - if that b the
objection, and it be a valid one - it is an objection that ought
to have been taken by demurrer, and, therefore, I cannot help
thinking that, upon the balance of convenience we shall act
more wisely in saying that the judgment pronounced on this
indictment ought not to be set aside by making the motion
absolute to arrest the judgment; but if there be any valid
foundation for the contention the defendants have raised upon
the indictment it should be taken by demurrer." Queen v.
B radlaugh, 2 Q. B. D. 569, 573. The judgment was reversed
in the Court of Appeal, which held that in an indictment for
publishing an obscene .book, described only by its title, the
words alleged to be obscene must be set out, and their omission would not be cured by a verdict of guilty. In his opinion
in that case, Lord Justice Brett considered what kind of omissions would be cured by verdict, and declared, as the result of

OCTOBER .TEM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the authorities, that "in every kind of crime which consists in
words, if the words complained of are not set out in the indictment or information, the objection is fatal in arrest of
judgment." But he also said: "I would strike out of the category of the cases which we are considering all cases with regard to obscene prints and obscene pictures. The publication
of obscene prints. and obscene pictures may be in one sense
libellous, but they are not words, and therefore they do
not seem to me to fall within the rules as to criminal pleadings which we are considering here to-day." Bradlaugh v.
Quen, 3 Q. B. D. 607, 634.
Looking at the cases in the American courts, we find that
in Commonwealth v. Sharpless, 2 Seargeant & IRawle, 91, 103,
(1815) which was an indictment for exhibiting an obscene
picture, it was objected, after verdict .and on motion in arrest
of judgment, that the picture was not sufficiently described.
Chief Justice Tilghman said: "We do not know that the
picture had any name, and therefore, it might be impossible
to designate it by name. What then is expected? Must the
indictment describe minutely the attitude and posture of the
figires ? I am for paying some respect to the chastity of our
records; these are circumstances which may be well omitted.
Whether the picture was really indeceift, the jury might
judge from the evidence, or, if necessary, from in pection;
the witnesses could identify it. I am of opinion, that the
description is sufficient."
The question was considerea in Massachusetts in 1821,.in Commonwealth v. Holmes, 17 Mass. 336, 337. That was an indictment for publishing a lewd and obscene print, contiined in a
certain book entitled " Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure," and
for publishing the same book. Two of the counts alleged that
the printed book was so lewd, wicked, and obscene "that the
same would be offensive to the court here, and improper to be
placed upon the records thereof." Chief Justice Parker, speaking for the court, held these counts to be good, saying: "It
can never be required that an obscene book and picture should
be displayed upon the records of the court: which must be
done, if the description in these counts is insufficient. This

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

would be to require that the public itself should give permanency and notoriety to indecency, in order to punish it." Subsequently, in Commonwealth v. Tarbox, 1 Cush. 66, 72, which
was an indictment under a state enactment for printing, publishing, and distributing an obscene paper, the court said:
"In indictments for offences of this description, it is not
always necessary that the contents of the publication should
be inserted; but, whenever it is necessary to do so, or whenever the indictment undertakes to state the contents, whether
necessary or not, the same rule prevails as in the case of libel,
that is to say, the alleged obscene publication must be set out
in the very words of which it is composed, and the indictment
must undertake or profess to do so, by the use of appropriate
language. The excepted cases occur whenever a publication
of this character is so obscene, as to render it improper that
it should appear on the record; and, then, the statement of
the contents may be omitted altogether, and a description
thereof substituted; but, in this case, a reason for the omission
must appear in the indictment, by proper averments. The
case of Commonwealth v. Holmes, 17 Mass. 336, furnishes both
an authority and a precedent for this form of pleading." In
Commonwealth v. MoCanoe, 164 Mass. 162, an indictment
charging the defendant with selling a certain book containing,
among other things, obscene language, was held to be insufficient. The court distinguished the case before it from previous cases, and said that while the principle announced in
Commonwealth v. Holmes must be regarded as an exception
to the general rule relating to libellous publications, the
weight of authority in this country was in favor of that decision.
So, in People v. Girardin, 1 Michigan, 90, 91, which was
an indictment for printing and publishing a certain paper
described by its title, and characterized as wicked, obscene, etc.,
the court said: "There is another rule as ancient as that contended for by the counsel for the prisoner, which forbids the
introduction in an indictment of obscene pictures and books.
Courts will never allow their records to be polluted by bawdy
and obscene matters. To do this would be to require a court

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of justice to perpetuate and give notoriety to an indecent pullication, before its author could be visited for the great wrong
he may have done to the public or to individuals. And there
isno hardship in this rule. To convict the defendant, he must
be shown to have published the libel; if he is the publisher he
must be presumed to have been advised of the contents of the
libel, and fully prepared to justify it. The indictment in this
cause corresponds with the precedents to be found in books of
the highest merit."
In &atm v. Brown, 27 Vermont, 619, in which the indictment
stated that the grand jurors omitted from the indictment the
lewd and obscene paper alleged to have been sold, because it
would be offensive to the court and improper to be placed on the
records of the court, Chief Justice Redfield said: "Ordinarily
the indictment, in a case like the present, should set forth the
book or publication in kae verba, the same as in indictments
for libel or forgery. This seems to be an acknowledged principle in the books. But even in indictments for forgery, it
may be excused, as if the forged instrument is in the possession
of the opposite party. So, also, in a case like the present, if
the publication be of so gross a character that spreading it upon
the record will be an offence against decency, it may be excused,
as all the English precedents show. Some of the precedents
are much like the present, describing the obscene character of
the publication in general terms. But more generally the
nature of the publication is more specifically described. But
in both cases the principle of the case is the same. If the
paper is of a character to offend decency and outrage modesty,
it need not be so spread upon the record- as to produce that
effect. And if it is alleged, in such case, to be a publication
within the general terms in which the offence is defined by
the statute, it is sufficient, which seem§ to be done in the present case. The degree of particularity, with which the paper
could be described without exposing its grossness, would
depend something upon the nature of that feature, whether it
consisted in the words used or the general description given.
In the former case it could not be more particularly described
than it here is without offending decency."

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In McNair v. The Peole, 89 Illinois, 441, 443, the question
was whether the indictment for printing, having in possession,
and giving away an obscene and indecent picture was sufficient
under a provision of the Illinois Criminal Code declaring that
an indictment should be deemed sufficiently technical and
correct, which stated the offence in the terms and language of
the statute creating the offence, or so plainly that the nature
of the offence could be easily understood. The court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Walker, said that "it was necessary to set out
the supposed obscene matter in the indictment, unless the obscene publication is in the hands of the defendant, or out of
the power of the prosecution, or the matter is too gross and
obscene to be spread on the records of the court, either of
which facts, if existing, should be averred in the indictment,
as an excuse for failing to set out the obscene matter; that
whether obscene or not, is a question of law and not of fact;
that the question is for the court to determine, and not for the
jury." To the same effect are Fullerv. Th People, 92 Illinois,
182, 184; State v. Smith, 17 R. I. 371, 374-5.
The earlier cases were fully examined by Mr. Justice Blatchford, when.he was a judgeof the Circuit Court, in United States
v. Bennett, 16 Blatchford, 338, 351, in which it was charged that
the defendant "did unlawfully and knowingly deposit, and
cause to be deposited, in the mail of the United States, then
and there, for mailing and delivery, a certain obscene, lewd,
and lascivious book, called 'Cupid's Yokes, or The Binding
Forces of Conjugal Life,' which said book is so lewd, obscene,
and lascivious, that the same would be offensive to the court
here, and improper to be placed upon the records thereof;
wherefore, the jurors aforesaid do not set forth the samb in
this indictment." Speaking for himself and Judges Benedict
and Choate, Mr. Justice Blatchford said : "In the present indictment, the defendant had information given to him as to
the offence charged, by the date of the mailing, by the title of
the book, and by the address on the wrapper. The indictment states. the reason for not setting forth the book to be.
that it is too obscene and indecent to be set forth. A copy of
the book, with a designation of the obscene passages relied on,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895:
Opinion of the Court

could have been obtained before the trial, by asking for a bill
of particulars. The defendant was not deprived of the right
'to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation.'
The weight of authority, as well as of reasoning, is in favor of
the sufficiency of the present indictment."
The doctrine to be deduced from the American cases is that
the constitutional right of the defendant to be informed of
the nature and cause of the accusation against him entitles
him to insist, at the-outset, by demurrer or by motion to quash,
and, after verdict, by motion in arrest of judgment, that the
indictment shall apprise him of the crime charged with such
reasonable certainty that he can make his defence and protect
himself after judgment against another prosecution for the
same offence; that this right is not infringed by the omission
from t.he indictment of indecent and obscene matter, alleged
as not'proper to be spread upon the records of the court, provided the crime charged, however general the language used,
is yet so described as reasonably to inform the accused of the
nature of the charge sought to be established against him;
and that, in such case, the accused may apply to the court
before the trial is entered- upon for a bill of particulars, showing what parts of the paper would be relied on by the prosecution as being obscene, lewd, and lascivious, which motion
will be granted or refused, as the court, in the exercise of a
sound legal discretion,'may find necessary to the ends of justice.
The .refusal of the court to arrest the judgment was not
erroneous. The defendant knew from the indictment itself
what paper or publication would be offered by the government in evidence, and that the prosecution would insist that
the pictures of females displayed in that paper were obscene,
lewd, and lascivious. It is said that some of the printed matter and pictures in, the paper could not possibly be regarded
as of that class. That fact is not disclosed by the indictment.
Besides, the failure to set out such matters and pictures could
not have prejudiced the accused. The paper being offered in
evidence, if it appeared that some of the printed matter or
some of the pictures were not, obscene, lewd, or lascivious, the

ROSEN

.

UN1ITED STATES.

Opnilon of the Court.

jury could have been instructed upon that subject at the instance of either party. But, as we have already said, the
defendant did not ask for a bill of particulars nor object to
the indictment as insufficient, but made his defence upon the
broad ground that the paper that he caused to be deposited in
the post office was not obscene, lewd, or lascivious.
We are of opinion that the indictment sufficiently informed
the accused of the nbture and cause of the accusation against
him, and that there was no legal ground for an arrest of the
judgment.
3. At the trial below the defendant, by his counsel, asked
the court to instruct the jury that he should be acquitted if
they entertained a reasonable doubt whether he knew that
the paper or publication, referred to in the indictment, was
obscene. This request was refused, and an exception was
taken to the ruling of the court.
This.request for instructions was intended to announce the
proposition that no one could be convicted of the offence of
having unlawfully, wilfully, and knowingly used the mails for
the transmission and delivery of an obscene, lewd, and lascivious publication -- although he may have had at the time actual knowledge or notice of its contents -unless he knew or
believed that such paper could be properly or justly characterized as obscene, lewd, and lascivious. The statute is not to be
so interpreted. The inquiry under the statute is whether the
paper charged to have been obscene, lewd, and lascivious was
in fact of that character, and if it was of that character and
was deposited in the mail by one who knew or had notice at
the time of its contents, the offence is complete, although the
defendant himself did not regard the paper as one that the
statute forbade to be carried in the mails. Congress did not
intend that the question as to the character of the paper
should depend upon the opinion or belief of the person who,
with knowledge or notice of its contents, assumed the responsibility of putting it in the mails of the United States. The
evils that Congress sought to remedy would continue and increase in volume if the belief of the accused as to what was
obscene, lewd, and lascivious was recognized as the test for

QCTOBER TERhM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

determining whether the statute has been violated. Every
one who uses the mails of the Ufited States for carrying
papers or publications must take notice of what, in this en.lightened age, is meant by decency, purity, and chastity in
social life, and what must be deemed obscene, lewd, and lascivious.
4. Another contention of the accused is, that the paper alleged to have been mailed was sent in response to a decoy
letter, and, for that reason, no crime was committed. It is
only necessary to say that that question has been disposed of
adversely to the defendant's contention by Grimm-y. United
States, 156 U. S. 604, 611. In that case it was said: "The law
was actually violated by the defendant; he placed letters in
the post office which conveyed information as to where obscene
matter could be obtained, and he placed them there with a
view of giving such information to the person who should actually receive those letters, no matter what his name; and the
fact that the person who wrote under those assumed names,
and received his letters was a government detective, in no
manner detracts from his guilt." That doctrine was again
announced in Goode v. United States, 159 U. S. 663, 669, in
which case it was said that the fact that "certain prohibited
pictures and prints were drawn out of the defendant by a
decoy letter written by a government detective, was no defence to an indictment for mailing such prohibited publications."
5. It is also assigned for error that the court left it to the
jury to say whether the paper in question was obscene, when
it was for the court, as a matter of law, to determine that
question. If the court had instructed the jury as matter of
law that the paper described in the indictment was obscene,
lewd, and lascivious, no error would have been committed; for'
the paper itself was in evidence; it was of the class excluded
from the mails; and there was no dispute as to its contents.
It has long been the settled doctrine of this court that the
evidence before the jury, if clear and uncontradicted upon
any issue made by the parties, presented a question of law, in
respect of which the court could, without usurping the func-

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, JJ.

tions of the jury, instruct them as to the principles applicable
to the case made by such evidence. Pleasant v. Fant, 22
Wall. 116, 121: Montclair v. Dana, 107 U. S. 162; Marshall
v. Hubbard, 117 U. S. 415, 419; Sparf and IJansen v. United
States, 156 U. S. 51, 99, 100. Even if we should bold that the
court ought to have instructed the jury, as matter of law,
that the paper was, within the meaning of the'statute, obscene, lewd, and lascivious, it would not follow that the .judgment should, for that reason, be reversed, because it is clear
that no injury came to the defendant by submitting the question of the character of the paper to the jury. But it is
proper to add that it was competent for the court below, in
its discretion, and even if it -had been inclined to regard the
pa per as obscene, lewd, and lascivious, to submit to the jury
the general question of the nature of the paper, accompanied
by istructions indicating the principles or rules by which
they should be guided in determining what was an obscene,
lewd, or lascivious paper within the contemplation of the stat:
ute under which the indictment was framed. That was what
the court did when it charged the jury that "the test of obscenity is whether the tendency of the matter is to deprave
and corrupt the morals of those whose minds are open to such
influence and into whose hands a publication of this sort may
fall." "Would it," the court said, "suggest or convey lewd
thoughts and lascivious thoughts to the young and inexperienced ?" In view of the character of the paper, as an inspection of it will instantly disclose, the test prescribed for the
jury was quite as liberal as the defendant had any right to
demand.
Other questions are discussed in the elaborate brief filed for
the defendant. Some of them do not require notice; others
were not sufficiently saved by exceptions, at the proper time.
and will not, therefore, be considered or determined.
We find no error of law in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTiB WHITr,
SHIRAS, dissenting.

with whom concurred MR. JusTiOB

- OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shirms, JJ.

Mr. Justice Shiras and myself are unable to concur in the
opinion and judgment of th~e court. Thinking, as we do, that
the consequence of the affirmance of the judgment is to deprive
the accused of rights guaranteed to him under the Constitution of the United States, we are impelled to state the reasons
for our dissent.
It was claimed at the bar of this court that the indictment
was absolutely void, because it failed to set forth an offence
against the law of the United States. This contention rested
on two propositions: First, that the indictment did not on its
face contain a statement of .the obscene matter charged to
have been illegally mailed; second, because even if the failure
to so state was excused by the allegation in the indictment
that the matter was too obscene and offensive to be repeated,
the indictment was none the less absolutely void, because it
failed to give an identifying reference to that which the grand
jury found to be obscene.
If these objections be well founded, they are necessarily
apparent on the face of the record. They go to the jurisdiction of the court rationematerim. They consequently demand
consideration whether or not they were presented to the court
below, or have been regularly assigned for error here. -Montana,Railway (o. v. Warren, 137 U. S. 348, 351. The questions,
then, are:
First. Was it necessary to spread the matter alleged to be
obscene in full in the indictment, and was the failure to do so
exoused by the allegation in the indictment that it was too offen8iVe to be _ut on the record?
It is unquestioned that the Efiglish rule requires, where
obscene words are relied upon, that the obscene matter should
be set out explicitly in the indictment, and that the averment
that is too obscene to be so stated is insufficient to excuse the
omission. Regina v. Bradlaugh, 3 Q. 3. Div. 621. But this
is not the doctrine of the American courts. At the time
Regina v. Bradlaugh was decided the contrary rule had been
announced in several leading cases in this country, and the
court in the Bradlaugh case said: "In support of this contention for the crown some American cases were cited. Deci-

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, JJ.

sions in the courts of the United States are not binding authorities, and although they may be expressly in point, yet, if they
are contrary to our law, they must be disregarded." The cases
thus referred to have since been followed by many other
American authorities, so that the question may be considered
in this country as determined adversely to the English rule.
Commonwealth v. Holmes, 17 Mass. 836; Commonwealth v.
Tarbox, 1 Cush. 66; People v. Girardin,1 Michigan, 90;
State v. Pennington, 5 Lea, 506; .McNair v. People, 89 Illinois, 441; Fuller v. People, 92 Illinois, 182; State v. Brown,
27 Vermont, 619; State v. Griffin, 43 Texas, 538; State v.
Smith, 17 R. I. "371 ; Commonwealth v. Dejardin, 126 Mass.
46 ; Commonwealth v. Wright, 139 Mass. 382; Commonwealth
v. McCance, 164 Mass. 162; United States v. Bennett, 16
Blatchford, 338. It was with reference to this well settled
view that in Grimm v. United States, 156 U. S. 604, in speaking of sending obscene matter through the mails, the court
said (p. 608): "The charge is not of sending obscene matter
through the mails, in which case some description might be
necessary, both for identification of the offence, and to enable
the court to determine whether the matter was obscene, alid,
therefore, non-mailable. Even in such cases it held that it is
unnecessary to spread the obscene matter in all its filthiness
upon the record; it is enough to so far describe it that its
obnoxious character may be discerned."
Second. Where the obscene matter is not spread upon the face
of the indictment, and is excused under the averment that it
would be ofensive to morality to do so, is the indictment valid
where it gives no specijf reference identifying the matterfound
by the grandju?-y to be obscene, thus rendering it impossible to
determine upon what the grandjury based its presentment?
In considering this question it must be borne in mind that
imprisonment at hard labor in the penitentiary is the penalty
which may be imposed for sending obscene matter through the
mails; hence the offence is an infamous one. fackin v. United
States, 117 U. S. 348 ; Exparte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417; In re
OZaasen, 140 U. S. 200. It must also be considered that, being
an infamous offence, the prosecution can, under the Fifth

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, JJ.

Amendment to the Constitution, only be by indictment. The
necessity for identifying references in the indictment, to the
obscene matter upon which the grand jury makes its finding,
is an essential part of the rule, dispensing with the obligation
of stating the obscene matter, in so many words, in the indictment. The reason upon which the English rule rests is that
spreading in full the obscene matter is essential to protect the
accused in his rights, to enable him to move to quash, or in
arrest of judgment, or to present on review by error the validity or invalidity of the indictment. The American rule is based
upon"the reason that such spreading upon the record is not essen-tial to protect the rights of the accused, because the obscene
matter, passe d on by the grand jury, can be so identified by a
reference to it in the indictment, as to enable it to be, by bill of
particulars or otherwise, readily supplied for. all the purposes
of defence; hence, the omission deprives the accused of no
substantial right, whilst subserving the ends of public morality
(nd
.decency.
The authorities make this clear. - Thus in Grimm v. United
States, ub. sap., the court said: "It is enough to so far describe
it [obscene matter] that it pbnoxious character may be discerned." And the reason which exacted this reference was
declared to be "both for identification, of the offence and to
enable the cour to determine whether the matter was obscene,
and, therefore, non-mailable." In Commonwealth v. Ao Canoe,
uspra, the indictment charged the accused with "selling a certain book then and there, called ' The Decameron of Boccaccio,'
and which said book upon the title page thereof was then and
there of the tenor following, (describing the title page,) . . .
which said book then and there contained among other things
which
.
certain obscene, indecent and impure-language,
said book is so lewd, obscene, indecent and impure that the
same would be offensive to the court and improper to be placed
upon the records thereof." The court, whilst fully recognizing
the rule which renders it unnecessary to spread obscene matter
in the indictment, also applied the principle which holds that
where such matter is not put upon the record there must be an
identifying reference in the indictment so that it may be deter-

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, JJ.

mined from the face thereof what was the particular matter
upon which the grand jury acted. In consequence of so holding the judgment was reversed and the verdict set aside. See
also Babcock v. United States, 34 Fed. Rep. 873.
Indeed, the correctness of the ruling in Comm nwealth v.
.oance we think results from the very nature of things.
It being unquestionable that a grand jury must find an indictment in order that the prosecution be valid, how can it
be said that there has been such a presentment, when on the
very face of the record it is absolutely impossibld to determine what matter the grand jury charged to be obscene?
To say that' it can be supplied by a bill of particulars or
otherwise is a misconception, for it becomes impossible to
supply that which does not legally exist. The Constitution
requiring that the grand jury should find the indictment,
neither the court, the prosecuting officer nor any one else have
power to create the necessary averments to make that an
indictment, which otherwise would be no indictment at all.
This case illustrates the danger of departing from constitutional safeguards. The general rule requires an indictment
to be specific. Stephens v. Statei Wright (Ohio), 73 ; Commonwealth v. Gillespie, 7 S. & R. 469; Commonwealth v. Stow,
1 Mass. 54; Commonwealth v. Bailey, 1 Mass. 62; Commonwealth v. Sweney, 10 S. & R. 173; Commonwealth v. Wright,
1 Cush. 46; Commonwealth v. Tarbox, 1 Cush. 66; Commonwealth v. Houghton, 8 Mass. 107; King v. Beere, 12 Mod.
219; State v. Parker,1 D. Chipman (Vermont)*298. See, also,
"Oommonwealth v. Stevens, 1 Mass. 203. To this rule there
has been evolved an exception. This exception, as we have
said, is that where the publication or mailing of obscene
matter is charged by a grand jury, such matter need not be
stated in the indictment, provided in that instrument it be
referred to and identified. Under the ruling now announced,
it seems to us thiat the exception is made to destroy the rule,
and that an indictment is held to be valid even although it
makes no reference whatever to the matter relied on to show
guilt. Thus the qualification as to the identifying reference
by which alone the exception is justified disappears, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shims, JJ.

result logically leads to the recognition of the right of a
grand jury to present without stating or referring to the
facts upon which its presentment is made, and also concedes.
the power of a prosecuting officer to supply matter in an
indictment, and thus make that which is absolutely void a,
valid instrument. The wisdom of the rule announced in
Commonwealth v. MAcance, was well illustrated by the indictment presented.in that case, as it is by the alleged indictment
under consideration here. Will it be said that an indictment
which charged that an-accused published obscene matter contained in twenty volumes of books called the Encyclopmdia
Britannica or Americana, giving the title page, and followed
by the statement that a more minute description would be
offensive to morality, would be adequate? And yet what
difference would exist, except in degree, between such an
indictment and the one here held to be valid? Nor is it
logical to say that as an accused has no right to know the
secrets of a grand jury room, therefore he is not entitled
to be informed as to the matter upon which the grand jury
bases its presentment. The Constitution forbids in a certain
class of cases prosecution except by indictment, and, therefore, to the extent that such knowledge is essential to constitute a valid instrument, the accused is entitled, under the
Constitution, to know the secrets of the grand jury room.
If these views as to the necessity of an identifying reference, supported, as we think they are, by the statement of
the court in Grimm v. United States, and the ruling of the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Commonwealth v. McCance,
be sound, their application to this case is clear.
The language of the indictment, whilst it identifies the
paper as an entirety, fails in any degree to designate what

matter therein, whether words or picture, was found to be
obscene by the grand jury, and upon which their presentment was made. It is impossible from the mere description
of the title page of the paper, and the averment that it contains twelve pages and was published on a particular day,
to in any way ascertain what part, whether pictures or print,
contained in the twelve pages, was acted on by the grand

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, JJ.

jury. In other words, using the identification of the paper
given by the indictment, the mind looks in vain for any reference to the particular things, found in the paper, which were
considered as within the statute.
Nor can it be correctly said that the alleged indictment
uader consideration charged that each and every part of the
newspaper was obscene, and therefore the grand jury found
the whole paper was of that character, thus identifying the
whole. It will be seen, from an examination of the indictment, that its language expressly charges that only portions
of the publication to which it refers are obscene. The paper
to which the indictment relates is twelve pages of the ordinary
size of illustrated papers, with a title page as described in the
indictment. Three of its pages are devoted to advertisements;
all the other pages, except the sixth and seventh, contained
pictures and printed matter. The excepted pages contain
only pictures, which are blackened over in part so as to seemingly conceal them, and yet leaving enough unblackened to
suggest the subjects which they depict. The eighth page has
similar pictures along with the printed matter. After describing the title page of the paper and the picture thereon, the
indictment says "and the said paper consists of twelve pages,
minute description of which with the pictures therein and
thereon would be offensive to the court and improper to
spread upon the records of the court, because of their obscene,
lewd and indecent matters." This is not an allegation that
the entire contents of the publication were obscene, because if
that was intended there would be no necessity of referring to
a "minute description" of the paper as essential to disclose
the obscene matter. It can, reasonably, only bear the construction that the publication was claimed to be obscene because of "obscene lewd and indecent matters" appearing
somewhere in the publication. It is evident, therefore, that
particular matter contained in the twelve pages was contemplated, and that the indictment furnishes no means for ascertaining in what this matter consists, by reference or otherwise.
It is clear that the defences here advanced, if they be well
founded, assert not that the indictment is formally defective,
VOL. CLXI-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shires, JJ.

but that it fails on its face to state an offence. The defect is
therefore not one of form under Rev. Stat. § 1025. On both
principle and authority such error goes to the existence of the
indictment, and consequently is essentially one of substance.
]lv jparte Bain, 121 U. S. 1. This is especially applicable to a
case where, by the Constitution, the accused cannot be prosecuted except on presentment by a grand jury. That the mere
silence or acquiescence of the accused cannot deprive him of
his constitutional right is obvious. In Hoyt v. Uta, 110 U S.
574, speaking through Mr. Justice Harlan, the court said (p.
57.).:
- We are .of opinion that it was not within the power of the
accused or his counsel to dispense with the statutory requirements as to his personal presence at the trial. The argument
to the contrary necessarily proceeds upon the ground that
he alone is concerned as to the mode by which he may be
deprived of his life or liberty, and that the chief object of
the prosecution is to punish him for the crime charged. But
this is a mistaken view as well of the relations which the
accsed holds to the public as of the end of human punishment." The natural life, says Blackstone, 'cannot legally be
disposed of or destroyed by any individual, neither by the
person himself, nor by any other of his fellow-creatures,
merely Vpon their own authority.' (1 Bl. Com. 14-1.) The
public has an interest in his life and liberty. Neither can
he lawfully taken except in the mode prescribed by law.
That which the law makes essential in proceedings involving the deprivation of life or liberty cannot be dispensed
with or affected by the coihsent of the accused, much less
by his mere failure, when on trial and in custody, to object
to unauthorized methods. The great end of punishment is
not the expiation or atonement of the offence committed,
but the prevention of future offences of the same kind. (4
Bl. Com. 11.) Such being the relation which the citizen
holds to the public, and the object of punishment for publicwrongs, the legislature has deemed it essential to the protection of one whose life or liberty is involved in a prosecution for felony, that he shall be personally present at the

ROSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Shiras, JJ.

trial, that is, at every stage of the trial when his substantial
rights may be affected by the proceedings against him. If
he be deprived of his life or liberty without being so present, such deprivation would be without that due process of
law required by the Constitution."
Doubtless it was like reasoning which caused the court in
Commonwealth v. Maher, 16 Pick. 120, to refuse, in a capital
case, to allow an amendment as to a matter of substance even
with the consent of the prisoner, and which also made the court
in Commonwealth v. McCanoe set aside the verdict against
the accused. In accord with this view is the doctrine which
denies the power, even by statute, to authorize amendments
which substantially change an indictment. The result of the
authorities to this effect is thus stated by Bishop: "If, in a
case where the Constitution gives the defendant the right tc
be tried by an indictment, the legislature should undertake to
authorize such amendments as leave the indictment no longer
the finding of the grand jury, an amendment under it would
oust the jurisdiction of the court, and the cause must stop.
Such is the substance of the authorities, though the doctrine
is not always stated in these words." (1 Bish. New Crim.
Proc. § 97, p. 55, and authorities there cited; Whart. Crim.
P1. & Prac. § 90, sub. 2, and authorities there cited.) The
legislative authority not being competent to authorize an
amendment so as to convert a void into a valid indictment,
surely a prosecuting officer can have no such power.
The indictment, being, as we think, fatally defective in
failing to state an offence, which defect could not be supplied
in the court below, and cannot be so supplied here without
converting an absolutely void into a valid indictment, and
thus violating the Constitution which secures the accused an
immunity from prosecution except upon presentment by a
grand jury, the verdict and judgment should be reversed.

