OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

DOUGLAS v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 611.

Submitted January 27,1896.-Decided March 2, 1896.

When there is color for a motion to dismiss on the ground of want of jurisdiction, and the claim is not so clearly frivolous as to authorize the
dismissal, the court may consider and pass upon the question raised.
Claims of deputy marshals against a marshal for services stand upon the
same footing as those of an ordinary employ6 against his employer.

Tmis was a motion to dismiss a writ of error for want of jurisdiction, or to affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of
North Carolina upon the ground that the writ of error was
sued out for delay merely, and the question upon which jurisdiction depended was so frivolous as not to need further
argument.
The action was brought in the Superior Court of Iredell
County, North Carolina, by the defendants in error, the firm
of Wallace Bros-, to recover of Douglas, the plaintiff in error,
the amount of certain drafts drawn upon him by certain persons, and accepted by writing across said drafts "Accepted;
payable when I receive funds to the use of" the drawer of
the drafts. (Signed) "R. M. Douglas, U. S. Marshal." The
matters involved in the action were referred to a referee, who
found that the defendant Douglas was M arshal of the United
States for the Western District of North Carolina for the
years 1878 to 1881, and that during this time he had in his
employment as deputy marshals J. T. Patterson, Jr., in whose
favor he accepted a draft for $200; W. J. Patterson, in whose
favor he accepted a draft for $325, and S. P. Graham, who
had a claim against the Marshal for $98.82 for official services
rendered to the Marshal, all of which were assigned to the
plaintiffs. The referee further reported that there had been
placed to the credit of Douglas in the Treasury Department
of the United States the sum of $460.76 upon claims due him
for the services of J. T. Patterson, Jr., performed prior to the

DOUGLAS v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

acceptance of his draft for $200, not subject to any previous
order, and that the same was placed to his credit since the
acceptance of the draft; that there had also been placed to
his credit the sum of $2274.55, due him for the services of
W. J. Patterson, rendered prior to the acceptance of his draft
for $325, and that the same was subject only to two drafts
for the aggregate sum of $600; that of the claim of $98.82,
due to S. P. Graham for services rendered as deputy,,$95.62
had been placed to the credit of the defendant in the Treasury
Department since the acceptance of the claim by the defendant, the remainder of said claim having been allowed by the
Government; that the vouchers so traded to the plaintiffs
were for services rendered prior to the said acceptance, and
before the same*was transferred to the plaintiffs, and that the
further sum of $2858.76 was placed to the defendant's credit
and control in the Treasury Department for services rendered
by Graham, out of which sum defendant received $900, leaving $1958.76 to the credit of the defendant since the acceptance. The referee accordingly reported that the plaintiffs
were entitled to payment for the full amount of their claim.
Before the judgment of the court was rendered, the defendant moved that the action be dismissed, upon the ground that
the evidence disclosed that the drafts and accounts declared
upon were drawn upon claims, or an interest in claims, against
the United States before their allowance, and were, therefore,
null and void under Rev. Stat. ยง 3477, inhibiting the assignment of claims against the United States. This motion was
overruled, the court proceeded to consider the case upon the
report of the referee and exceptions thereto, and entered a
judgment in favor of the plaintiffs, from which the defendant
appealed to the Supreme Court of North Carolina, which affirmed the judgment of the court below. Whereupon defendant sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. Robert .M. Douglas, plaintiff in error, in person.
.Mr. W. P. Montague for defendants in error.
Mi.

JUSTip

BnowN delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The only Federal question in this case was raised upon the
motion of the defendant to dismiss, upon the ground that the
evidence disclosed that the drafts and accounts declared upon
were drawn upon claims, or an interest in claims, against the
United States before their allowance, contrary to the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 3477, which declares that "All transfers and assignments made of any claim upon the United
States, or of any part or share thereof, or interest therein,
whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the
consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders or
other authorities for receiving payment of any such claim, or
of any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void,
unless they are freely made and executed in the presence of
at least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a
claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing
of a warrant for the payment thereof," etc.
While we are of opinion that the claim of a Federal question thus presented is not so clearly frivolous as to authorize
us Io dismiss the case, within the rulings in Millingar v.
H7artupee, 6 Wall. 258; Hfew Orleans v. Hew Orleans Waterworks, 142 U. S. 79, 87; and HambZin v. TVestern Land Co.,
147 U. S. 531, we think there was such color for the motion
to dismiss as authorizes us to proceed to the consideration of
the question involved.
Upon the merits, we think the position assumed by the
The deputy marshals, for
defendant is wholly untenable.
whose services the drafts in question were accepted, not only
had no claim upon the United States, and no part or share in
any such claim, but they had no proper interest in any such
claim. Their accounts, for which the drafts were accepted,
were claims against the Marshal personally, and not against
the United States,, though they were paid out of the funds to
be realized by the Marshal from the government. Although
deputies are recognized by law as necessary to the proper
administration of the Marshal's office, they receive from the
government neither salaries nor fees, and the government has
no dealings directly with them. The accounts are rendered
by the Marshal, who charges not only for his own services,

DOUGLAS v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

but for those of each of his deputies, who are Appointed by the
Marshal personally and are accountable to him alone, though
subject to be removed by the court at its pleasure. Rev. Stat.
ยง 780. The Marshal makes his own bargains. with his deputies,
and is unrestricted in the amount he shall pay them, which
may be either a salary or a proportion of the fees earned by
them, except that, in computing the maximum compensation
to which he is entitled, the allowance of no deputy shall
exceed three fourths of the fees and emoluments received or
payable for the services rendered by him. ยง 841. He is thus
bound to charge himself with a quarter of tho fees earned by
each deputy. Their claims for services against .the Marshal
stand upon the same footing as those of an ordinary employ6
against his employer, and are not even contingent upon the
Marshal collecting his own accounts against the United States,
although in the present case the Marshal accepted the drafts
in suit upon such contingency.
It is true that in a narrow sense of the word these deputies
may be said to have had an interest in the claim of the Marshal against the United States, inasmuch as their drafts were
not payable until the Marshal received funds for the use of
the drawers, or rather applicable to the services rendered by
the drawers; but this was rather a method of fixing a date
for the maturity of the drafts than a contingency upon the
happening of which the claims of the deputies should be payable. If, for instance, the Marshal were to give his grocer or
other ordinary creditor a note, payable when a certain claim
of his against the government were paid, such creditor might
be said to be interested in the payment of the claim; but he
could not, in the sense of the statute, be said to have an interest in the claim itself, since his debt existed entirely independently of the claim. Had the drafts in this case been
surrendered and cancelled, the claims would still have existed
against the Marshal personally, and, in the absence of any
agreement to the contrary, might have been subject to enforcement. Their claims were for services rendered to the Marshal,
though the amount of such claims was measured by the fees.
which the Marshal was entitled to charge the government for

