GILDERSLEEVE v. NEW MEXICO MiINING CO.

573

Statement of the Case.

GILDERSLEEVE v. NEW MEXICO MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE TERRITORY OF NEW

MEXICO.
No. 89.

Argued December 2, 3,1895.-

Decided Marob 16, 1896.

In an appeal from a judgment of a territorial court, with no exceptions to
rulings of the court on the admission or rejection of testimony this
court is limited in its review to a determination of the question whether
the facts found are sufficient to sustain the judgment rendered.
The court bases its conclusion in this case upon the fact that the record exhibits such gross laches on the part of complainant, or those
with whom he is in privity, and upon whose rights his own must depend, as to effectually debar him from a right to the relief which he
seeks.

THE relief sought by appellant in the lower court was to
have the New Mexico Mining Company, to whom certain
letters patent were issued by the United States for a Mexican
mining grant, declared a trustee for his benefit to the extent
of a one fourth interest in thb land covered by said letters
patent.
The Territorial District Court held that the statute of limitations barred the suit, and therefore dismissed the bill.
The Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the decree of
dismissal, 27 Pac. Rep. 318, holding the plea of the statute
of limitations good, and also sustained the mining company's
contention that Mrs. Ortiz, under whom they claimed, acquired title through a valid mutual will executed by herself
and her husband in 1841. The cause was then brought to
this court by appeal. From the findings in the record the
following facts are extracted:
The property in controversy covered by the United States
patent embraced a mining grant made by the government of
Mexico in 1833, to Jos6 Francisco Ortiz and Ignacio Cano.
This grant consisted of a gold mine or vein, and a small ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tent of surface ground, as also commons of pasture and water
to the extent of four leagues from each of the four cardinal
points of the mine. Some time prior to the cession of New
Mexico to the United States, under the treaty of February 2,
1848, Cano sold and transferred all his interest in the grant
,in question to Ortiz his cobwner. On August 15, 1841, Ortiz
and his wife executed before a Mexican alcalde and two attending witnesses a mutual will, in which it was provided
that the survivor should be the universal legatee or heir of
the other to all the property, both real and personal, of every
kind whatsoever. Ortiz died before his wife, July 22, 1848,
at Santa F6, New Mexico, and thereupon Mrs. Ortiz entered
into the possession of the mine and the enjoyment of the
privileges connected therewith, and retained this possession
up to December 20, 1853, when she sold and delivered the
possession thereof to John Greiner, the deed to whom was
recorded in the office of the probate clerk of Santa F6 County
on December 29, 1853. Greiner remained in possession until
August 19, 1854, when he transferred the property to Elisha
Whittlesley and six others. Contemporaneous with the execution of the deed to Whittlesley et als., they and one other
person executed articles of association under the name of the
New Mexico Mining Company, and on February 1, 1858, the
members of the association were incorporated by the legislature of the Territory of New Mexico, under a similar designation.
On November 8, 1869, Whittlesley et als., as representing
the New Mexico Mining Company, petitioned the then surveyor general of the Territory to examine their title to said
grant. That-official complied with the request and made a
favorable report to Congress, which, by an act approved
March 1, 1861, 1 Stat. 887, c. 66, confirmed the grant, the
claim being designated as private land claim No. 43. A
survey of the grant was thereafter made and was completed
on August 14, 1861, but such survey was not approved by
the Secretary of the Interior unftil April 22, 1876. On May
20, 1876, a patent issued in the name of the New Mexico
Mining Company, the lands embracedrtherein being stated to

GILDERSLEEVE v. NEW MEXICO MINING CO.

575

Statement of the Case.
contain 69,458.33 acres, less 259 acres in conflict with another
grant.
In addition to the possession by Mrs. Ortiz, before stated,
her grantee, Greiner, and his assigns held actual, open, and
notorious possession of the property in question from the conveyance to Greiner in Decembei', 1853, until the commencement of this litigation in 1883. Such possession was held by
employing an agent or agents to live on the property at the village of Dolores, near the said mine, and by making large and
extensive improvements on the property, in building a large
stamp mill at Dolores, near said mine, and many other acts,
open and notorious, indicative of ownership of the property.
No attempt was ever made by those through whom Gildersleeve claimed to interfere with such possession or enjoyment
of the property, or to actively assert any right or interest in
said property, except through a suit brought in 1880 by Brevoort, as hereinafter stated. None of said parties ever intervened in the proceedings instituted before the surveyor general
looking to the confirmation of the grant to the New Mexico
Mining Company, nor after the surveyor general's report to
Congress was an objection raised to the passage of the act
confirming the grant, nor, indeed, at any time did the complainant or those under whom he claims object to the mining
company's assertion of title to the property, or to the issuance
of letters patent to the company.
The complainant bases his right to the equitable relief
prayed for in his bill upon the assertion that the authentic
mutual will of Ortiz and his wife heretofore referred to was
void, because not executed with the formalities required by
law as to the number of witnesses, etc., and that, subsequently,
Ortiz died intestate, leaving no direct but certain collateral
heirs, who conveyed in 1873 the interest inherited, by them,
from Ortiz to one Brevoort, who, in 1880, conveyed an undivided one half interest in the property thus acquired by him
jointly to appellant and Knaebel. The consideration of the
last conveyance from Brevoort to Gildersleeve and Knaebel,
they being attorneys at law, was money advanced and services
rendered and to be rendered to Brevoort for the maintenance

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of a suit then or about to be instituted to enforce Brevoort's
alleged title to the mine.
At the July, 1880, term of a District Court of the Territory,
Brevoort, through the attorneys in question, filed a bill against
the New Mexico Mining Company, asserting his equitable title
to an undivided interest in the land covered by the patent, but
after the taking of testimony, and the hearing of exceptions,
upon the report of a master, the court on July 16, 1884, dismissed the cause.
At the February term, 1883, of the same court certain
alleged heirs and legal representatives of Ignacio Cano instituted suit against the New Mexico Mining Company. and
others, based upon the claim that Cano had never conveyed
his interest in the mine to Ortiz, and that in consequence he
was seized at the time of his death of an undivided interest in
the property. The court, however, sustained the plea of a
former adjudication based on an action which had been instituted in 1865 by the same persons or others with whom they
were in privity, and dismissed the bill. Brevoort was a party
defendant to this second suit of the Cano claimants. He filed
a cross-bill denying the rights of the heirs of Cano and setting
up title in himself to an undivided part of the mine and land
covered by the patents by virtue of the conveyances aforesaid
from the collateral heirs of Ortiz, and asked the same relief as
that prayed for in his former suit. Subsequently, the mining
company compromised their controversy with Brevoort and
Knaebel, and Brevoort was dismissed from the cause. Thereupon Gildersleeve intervened and was permitted by the court
to set up his rights, under the conveyance from Brevoort to
himself, with the same effect as though he had originally
been made a defendant. The court, treating the compromise
between Brevoort and the mining company as inoperative
against Gildersleeve, by its order allowed Gildersleeve to
assert his rights, nunepro tune, as if they had been advanced
at the time Brevoort filed his cross-bill.
The issue thus formed between Gildersleeve and the New
Mexico Mining Company thereupon proceeded as a new action, with Gildersleeve as complainant.

GILDERSLEEVE v. NEW MEXICO MINING CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

In 1880 the mining company transferred the property embraced in the letters patent to Stephen B. Elkins and Jerome

B. Chaffee, but the greater portion of the property was reconveyed to the company in 18841.
It is not material, however, to notice the disposition made
by Chaffee and Elkins of the land not reconveyed by them to
the mining company.
The issue between Gildersleeve and the mining company, as
heretofore stated, resulted adversely to complainant in the
territorial courts.
-Mr.Thomas Smith, (with whom was -Mr. H. I. Warren on
the brief,) for appellant.
Afr. Joseph Larocque for appellee.
MR. JusTicE WITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The appeal being from a judgment of a territorial court,
and no exceptions to rulings of the court on the admission or
rejection of testimony being presented for our consideration,
we are limited in our review to a determination of the question whether the facts found are sufficient to sustain the judgment rendered. flaws v. Victoria Copper .Mining. Co., 160
U. S. 303, 312.
In the trial court, the controversy between Gildersleeve and
the mining company was disposed of upon the ground that
the statute of limitations barred complainant's right to recover. The Supreme Court of the Territory, however, rested
its judgment of affirmance not only upon the bar of the
statute, but upon the further fact found by it that Ortiz and
his wife had executed a valid mutual will, by which, upon the
death of Ortiz, title to the mine in question vested in his
widow, through whom the mining company claimed.
We shall, however, consider the case in another aspect, and
shall base our conclusion that the complainant is not entitled
to relief at the hands of a court of equity upon the fact that
VOL. CLXi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the record exhibits such gross laches on the part of complainant, or those with whom he is in privity, and upon whose
rights his own must depend, as to effectually debar him from
a right to the relief which he seeks.
In Hammond v. lHopkins, 143 U. S. 224, 250, speaking
through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, this court said: "No rule
of law is better settled than that a court of equity will not
aid a party whose application is destitute of conscience, good
faith and reasonable diligence, but will discourage stale demands, for the peace of society, by refusing to interfere where
there have been gross laches in prosecuting rights, or where
long acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights has occurred."
In Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368, 371, speaking through
Mr. Justice Brewer, it was said of the case then being considered: "The question of laches turns not simply upon the
number of years which have elapsed between the accruing
of her rights, whatever they were, and her assertion of them,
but also upon the nature and evidence of those rights, the
changes in value, and other circumstances occurring during
that lapse of years. The cases are many in which this defence has been invoked and considered. It is true, that by
reason of .their differences of fact no one case becomes an
exact precedent for another, yet a uniform principle pervades
them all."
In Speidel v. Henrici, 120 U. S. 377, 387, the court said,
speaking through Mr. Justice Gray: "Independently. of any
statute of limitations, courts of equity uniformly decline to
assist a, person who has slept upon his rights and shows no
excuse for his laches in asserting them. 'A court of equity,'
said Lord Camden, 'has always refused its aid to stale demands where the party slept upon his rights, and acquiesced
for a great length of time. Nothing can call forth this court
into activity but conscience, good faith and reasonable diligence; where these are wanting, the court is passive, and does
nothing. Laches and neglect are always discountenanced,
and, therefore, from the beginning of this jurisdiction, there
was always a limitation to suits in this court.'"

GILDERSLEEVE v. NEW MEXICO MINING CO.

579

Opinion of the Court.

In Lane & Bodley Co. v. Locke, 150 U. S. 193, and Mackall
v. Casilear,137 U. S. 556, it was declared to be correct doctrine that the mere assertion of a claim unaccompanied by
any act to give effect to it, could not avail to keep alive a
right which would otherwise be precluded.
With the principles enunciated in these decisions to guide
us, we proceed to review the pertinent facts showing the conduct of the persons in whom complainant contends the title to
the mine vested upon the death of Ortiz in 1848, by reason of
the alleged intestacy of the latter.
It is undisputed, if the claim of the collateral heirs of Ortiz as to the nullity of the will executed by Ortiz was well
founded, whatever title Ortiz had to what is now known as
the Ortiz mine vested in them upon the decease of Ortiz in
1848, subject to such confirmation by the United States as the
law required. By article VIII of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo of 1846, 9 Stat. 922, 929, this government agreed to
respect rights of private property in the ceded territory in
existence at the date of the cession. To carry into effect this
agreement, Congress passed an act entitled "An act to establish the office of surveyor general of New Mexico, Kansas and
:Nebraska, to grant donations to actual settlers therein, and
for other purposes," which act was approved July 22, 1854.
10 Stat. 308, c. 103. By section eight of this act it was made
the duty of the surveyor general, under rules and regulations
to be established by the Secretary of the Interior, to inquire into
and report to Congress upon the validity or invalidity of all
claims to lands within the territory ceded by Mexico which
had originated before such cession, which report was to be
laid before Congress for such action thereon as might be
deemed to be just and proper, with a view to the confirmation
of bona fide grants. This act has been considered by this
court. Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240; Astiazaran
v. Santa Rita Mining Co., 148 U. S. 80, and cases cited in the
latter case.
The finding of facts does not recapitulate the various steps
in the proceedings initiated, by the mining company through
Whittlesley, before the surveyor general under the act of 1854

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to acquire a patent to the mining grant. Knowledge, in the collateral heirs of Ortiz, of the passage of the act in question and
of their right to file a claim with the surveyor general is, of
course, to be presumed. It has not been asserted, however, that
these collateral heirs ever submitted their alleged title to the
surveyor general for examination, or entered objection to the
validity of the claim to ownership of the entire grant filed with
that official by the New Mexico Mining Company. It is also
not pretended after the surveyor general had reported the entire grant to Congress for confirmation, as belonging to the
New Mexico Mining Company, that the alleged collateral heirs
of Ortiz ever in any way presented their pretensions to that
body, or raised any objection to the confirmation by Congress
of the grant in the manner and form recommended by the
surveyor general; and after the grant was confirmed by Congress, in the long interval which elapsed before the issue of
the patent, (from 1S61 to 1876,) there is also no pretence that
the collateral heirs of Ortiz ever before any administrative
officer of the government asserted the existence in themselves
of the rights now advanced by them as the basis for the equitable relief which they seek. Indeed, the record shows that
during twenty-two years, between the passage of the act of
1854 and the issue of the patent in 1876, the collateral heirs
remained supinely indifferent to the assertion of their supposed
title, while during the greater portion of this time the New
Mexico Mining Company was expending labor and incurring
the expense connected with the obtaining of the letters patent.
So, also, these alleged heirs from the date of the death of
Ortiz permitted Mrs. Ortiz, Greiner, and those holding under
him, including the mining company, to remain in undisturbed
possession of the property and to engage in large outlay for
its development without, so far as appears, even claiming
rights in themselves, until more than four years had elapsed
from the final granting of the patent. It is proper also to
observe that when the first suit was brought in 1880 it was
commenced, not on behalf of the collateral heirs of Ortiz, but
was initiated for the enefit of one, who, with full knowledge
of all the circumstances, acquired the supposed title of such

GILDERSLEEVE v. NEW MEXICO MINING CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.

collateral heirs, for the purpose of speculating upon the chance
of wresting from the mining company the title acquired by
it under the patent, although at that time the laches of tho
collateral heirs, whose rights the suit championed, had effectually debarred them from invoking the aid of a court of equity
to relieve them from the results of their own acquiescence
and neglect.
It is true, as held in Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, that
where the title to land had passed from the government, and
the question becomes one of private right, courts may inquire
whether the party holding the patent should be treated as
owning it absolutely in his own right or as a trustee for
another and, therefore, that courts of equity have the power
-to inquire into and correct mistakes, injustice and wrong.
But when the aid of a court of equity is invoked in effect to
annul the confirmation by Congress or to overrule the final
conclusion of the administrative department as to the person
entitled to a patent from the United States, the fact that the
complainant who ask9 such equitable relief, theretofore possessed not only ample opportunity to assdrt his own claim,
but also abundant occasion to contest the right of the person
to whom a patent was granted, has completely failed to do
either, and has been guilty of the grossest and most inexcusable laches, is necessarily a conclusive reason against the allowance of the relief asked.
When Brevoort acquired his alleged rights, in 1S73, the
New Mexico Mining Company was in possession of the property, and Brevoort knew this fact. When on June 30, 1880,
Brevoort executed the conveyance of an undivided interest to
Gildersleeve and Kaebel for the consideration of their assistance by advance of money or otherwise in contemplated litigation with the Mining company, Brevoort's grantees knew
the fact to be that he was not in possession, and that the New
Mexico Mining Company was in actual possession.
To recapitulate, there was an uninterrupted use and enjoyment by the widow of Ortiz, and those claiming by conveyance from her of the property in question, from the death of
Ortiz in 1848 ; no attempt was ever made to assert rights, if

OCTOBER TEIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

any, of the collateral heirs of Ortiz in this property until the
year 1880. They stood by and witntessed the expenditure of
large sums of money upon the property and did nothing exhibiting an intention to assert their supposed rights. No attempt was made in the pleading of Gildersleeve to offer any
explanation of this long continued acquiescence in the rights
of those in possession of the mine and of the privilege connected therewith. Under such circumstances, we think the
heirs and those claiming under them are not entitled to equitable relief. Finding at the very threshold of the case the
existence of such laches on the part of complainant as debars
him from obtaining the equitable relief which he invokes, we
have not deemed it necessary to express any opinion on the
other questions presented by the record. The court below in
the concluding sentences of its opinion aptly conveyed the
reasons which, apart from a consideration of the other questions by it considered, demonstrates the entire want of equity
in the complainant's case. The expressions to which we refer,
by O'Brien, C. J., are as follows:
"Ortiz dies in 1848. The widow claims and asserts her
rights under the will as the absolute owner of all the property
of which he died possessed ; she disposes of such rights to
bona fRd purchasers; for nearly forty years before this suit
was commenced they occupy, improve and pay taxes on this
property. Plaintiff's grantor and those through whom such
grantor claims title, relatives of the deceased Ortiz, and residing in the vicinity of the grant, remain silent; acquiesce by such
silence in the disposition so made of the property for so long
a period, while the same is being enhanced in value by the
capital and labor of honest purchasers or occupants. In fact,
not a word is heard from any of the kindred in relation to the
matter until they relinquish for a trifling consideration all
their interest therein to plaintiff's grantor."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
.4firvmed.

