DURHAM v.' SEYMOUR.
Statement of the Case.

DURHAM v. SEYMOUR.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF

THE

DISTRICT

OF

COLUMAhBIA.
No. 769. Submitted January 18,1896. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

As a claim of invention, made in an application for a patent, is a riglit
Incapable of being, ascertained and valued in money, no appeal lies to
this court from a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia, affirming the decision of the Supreme Court of the District
that the applicant was not entitled to a decree, under Rev. Stat ยง 4915,
authorizing the Commissioner of Patents to issue a pateht to him for
his alleged invention.

THIS was a bill brought by Caleb W. Durham, under the
provisions of section 4915 of the Revised Statutes, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, to obtain a decree
authorizing the Commissioner of Patents to issue a patent
to him for an improved drainage apparatus for buildings.
The Supreme Court adjudged on the evidence that Durham
was not entitled to a dedree, and dismissed the bill, whereupon
he carried the case by appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, and that court affirmed the decision of
the court below. From this decree an appeal was taken to
this court, and a motion was made to dismiss the appeal for
want of jurisdiction.
Section 4915 is as follows: "Whenever a patent on application is refused, either by the Commissioner of Patents or by
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia upon appeal
from the Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by
bill in equity; and the court having cognizance thereof, on
notice to adverse parties and other due proceedings had, may
adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to
receive a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or
for any part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear.
And such adjudication, if it be in favor of the right of the
applicant, shall authorize the Commissioner to issue such
patent on the applicant filing in the Patent Office a copy of
the adjudication, and otherwise complying )vith the require-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

ments of law. In all cases, where there is no opposing party,
a copy of the bill shall be served on the Commissioner; and
all the expenses of the proceeding shall be paid by the applicant, whether the final decision is in his favor or not."
Section 8 of the act establishing the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia and for other purposes, approved
February 9, 1893, c. '71, 27 Stat. 434, provides:
"S.Ec. 8. That any final judgment or decree of the said

'Court of Appeals may be reexamined and affirmed, reversed,
-or modified by the Supreme Court of the United States, upon
writ of error or appeal, in all causes in which the matter in
-dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, in the same manner and under the same regulations as heretofore provided for in cases of writs of error on
judgments or appeals from decrees rendered in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia; and also in cases, without
regard to the sum or value of the matter in dispute, wherein
is involved the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which
is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of or
.an authority exercised under the United States."
The act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat. 443 reads thus:
"That no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed
from any judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or in the
Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United States,
unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars.
"SEc. 2. That the preceding section shall not apply to
-any case wherein is involved the validity of any patent or
copyright, or in which is drawn in question the validity of
-a treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under the
United States; but in all such cases an appeal or writ of
error may be brought without regard to the sum or value in
dispute."
Mr&. Levin H. Campbell for the motion.
...J. Nota .oGill and Xr. -Don X. Dikinson opposing.

DURHAM v. SEYMOUR.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Cm

JUSTIE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeals to this court from the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia are governed by section 8 of the act of
February 9, 1893. It is essential to our jurisdiction that it
should appear that the matter in dispute in the courts below
was money to an amount exceeding five thousand dollars
exclusive of costs, or some right, the value of which could be
ascertained in money and exceeded that sum; or that the
validity of a patent or copyright was involved; or that the
validity of a treaty or statute of or an authority exercised
under the United States was drawn in question. South Carolina v. Seymour, 153 U. S.353, and cases cited.
The question here was whether Durham was "entitled,
according to law, to receive a patent for his invention, as
specified in his claim, or for any part thereof, as the facts in
the case may appear." What Durham sought was to obtain
an adjudication authorizing the Commissioner of Patents to
issue a patent to him, and the matter in dispute was whether
Durham was entitled to a patent as for a patentable invention.
Durham had presented his application for a patent, filed in
due form, to the Commissioner of Patents in accordance with
section 4888 of the Revised Statutes, which application was
rejected by the Commissioner, and thereupon he appealed to
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in general
term, which affirmed the decision of the Commissioner. He
then filed this bill in equity in accordance with section 4915 of
the Revised Statutes, and although, as remarked by Mr. Justice
Blatchford, in Gandy v. Marble, 122 U. S. 432, 439, it "is a suit
according to the ordinary course of equity practice and procedure, and is not a technical appeal from the Patent Office, nor
confined to the case as made in the record of that office, but is
prepared and heard upon all competent evidence adduced upon
the whole merits, yet the proceeding is, in fact, and necessarily a part of the application for the patent." Considered in
this light it is clear that the validity of a patent was not involved. And we may add that it appears to us to be quite

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

inconsistent with the intention of Congress for this court to
take jurisdiction on appeal of applications for patents in view
of the provisions in relation to appeals from the Circuit Courts
*of Appeals under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
United States v. Amer. Bell Telephone Co., 159 U. S. 548.
The matter in dispute was not money, and the only remaining inquiry is whether it was a right capable of being ascertained in money and appearing to be of the requisite pecuniary
value ?
The answer to this inquiry requires the application of the
settled and necessary principle that the matter in dispute is, as
was said by Mr. Justice Field in Lee v. Watson, 1 Wall. 337, 339,
"the subject of the litigation -the matter for which the suit
is brought," and that matter here was the issue of a patent,'
that is, an application to the courts below to hold -the alleged
invention patentable and authorize a patent to be issued.
It is true that "the discoverer of a new and useful improvement is vested by law with an inchoate right to its exclusive
use, which he may perfect and make absolute by proceeding
in the manner which the law requires;" and that an assignment may, under circumstances, be made which will operate
upon the perfect legal title which the discoverer had a lawful
right to obtain, as well as. upon the imperfect and inchoate
interest which he may actually possess. Gayler v. Wilder, 10
How. 477, 493.
So rights growing out of an invention may be sold, whether
the sale in any case carries with it anything of value or not.
-Hammondv. Mason & Hiamlin Organ Co., 92 U. S.724, 728.
But "until the patent is issued there is no property right in
it, that is, no such right as the inventor can enforce. At all
events there is no power over its use,- which is one of the elements of the right of property in anything capable of ownership." Marsh v.* -Nichols, 128 U. S. 605, 612; Brown v.
Dzchesne, 19 How. 183.
The right to apply for a patent was being availed of in this
proceeding and the invention cannot be regarded for jurisdictional purposes as in itself property or a right of property
having an actual value susceptible of estimati6n in money.

DURHAMXi.

SEYMOUR.

Opinion of the Court.

Whether the alleged invention were patentable or not was
the question, and that question had no relation to its value in
money. If the invention were not patentable, Durham had
suffered no loss; if the invention were patentable, it was not
material whether it had or had not a money value.
The bill, properly enough, does not allege that any sum of
money was in dispute, although there are averments that the value of the invention is generally recognized, and that sundry
persons are deriving large profits in making the device sought
to be patented. Evidence of that kind, though ndt controlling, is sometimes introduced in suits on patents as indicative
of invention in the production of new and beneficial results,
but it is not relevant here, nor are the affidavits pivesented on
the question of value if the patent were granted. The matter
in dispute must have actual value, and that cannot be supplied
by speculation on the possibility that, in a given case, an
invention might be held patentable.
In Sparrow v. Strong, 3 Wall. 97, jurisdiction was sustained
on the ground that a mining claim acquired under mining,
rules and customs recognized by the laws of the Territory of
Nevada, though the land where it existed had never been surveyed and brought into market, might be the subject of estimate in money; that the claim might perhaps have existed
under the former governments of Spain or Mexico, and that,
moreover, mining interests apart from fee simple rights in the
soil, existed, before the act of Congress of February 27, 1865,
under the implied sanction of the Federal government. The
distinction between that case and the one before us is obvious.
We are of opinion that the matter in dispute in this case
was not capable of being valued in money, and that the appeal
must be dismissed.
It is suggested that jurisdiction was entertained in Gandy
v. Mfarble, 122 U. S. 432; Hill v. Wooster, 132 U. S. 693, and
Morgan v. Daniels, 153 U. S. 120, to the contrary of the conclusion at which we have arrived. But Morgan v. Daniels
and Hill v. Wooster were appeals from Circuit Courts taken
before the passage of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, and
when section 699 of the Revised Statutes was in force, which

