OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

just reviewed it. It is moreover quite doubtful whether the
court below committed any error, even if the question were
to be regarded as of a Federal nature, and open to us for
review. Keokak & Western Railroad v. issouri, 152 U. S.
301, 314.
It is said that a suit for taxes for one year is no bar to a
suit for taxes for another year; that it is not the same transaction, and the judgment in a prior action can never operate
as an estoppel other than as to those matters which were in
issue and controverted, and upon the determination of which
a finding or verdict was rendered. It is not necessary in this
case, however, to determine whether there was any one particular fact in issue and litigated in the first case, and which
would be closed from further controversy, and which, as thus
decided, would preclude a recovery in this case. We hold
that the question in any event, as presented in this case, was
not a Federal one.
These views render a discussion of any other question in the
case unnecessary and lead to an affirmance of the judgment
herein.
MR. JusTicE. WiTE

Afir
~ed.

dissented.

MEMPHIS CITY BANK v. TENNESSEE FOR THE
USE OF MEMPHIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSE.,
No. 674.

Argued January 20, 21, 22, 1896. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

A corporation organized for the purpose of doing an insurance business,

under an act of the legislature of the State of Tennessee passed before
tle adoption by that State of its constitution of 1870, with a provision in
the charter limiting the rate and extent of taxation by the State, does not

continue to enjoy the exemption if its corporate objects and business
are changed to those of a bank by legislation enacted subsequent to the
adoption of that constitution.

MEMPHIS CITY BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Statement of the Case.
A judgment in favor of the exemption of its shareholders from taxation in
excess of the statutory limit, entered before the insurance company was.
changed to a bank, cannot be upheld as resjudicatain an action brought
after the change to recover such excess.
THIS suit is similar to those which precede, and is brought
for the collection of taxes against the corporation, plaintiff in
error, or its stockholders. It was tried upon an agreed statement of facts. Those which are material to the present
inquiry are the following: The defendant corporation in January, 1870, under its then name of the Memphis City Fire and
General Insurance Company, was duly organized under the
charter granted to it on the 24th of January, 1870, and the
organization under it was in all respects valid and no question
is made upon the same. The defendant from that date down
to the year 1887 carried on an insurance business under.its
charter in the city of Memphis. In that year, in pursuance
of the powers granted in chapter 190, Acts of 1887, the corporation (also claiming the right to do so under the powers
conferred by its charter) changed its business from that of
insurance to that of banking, and since that date down to the
present time has exclusively conducted a banking business in
Memphis. Section 2 of the original charter empowers the
corporation to receive in trust from any person, moneys,
jewels, plate and other valuable things, and to give acknowledgment therefor in such form as the directors of the corporation may deem best suited to the protection and convenience
of depositors and the company. And the corporation was also
authorized to loan its surplus funds on any public stock, or
stock of any incorporated company, or of the United States,
or either of them, or to invest such funds in any real or personal estate, choses in action or other good securities. Section
7 provides that there shall be levied a state tax of one half of
one per cent upon the amount of capital stock actually paid
in, to be collected in the same way and at the same time as
the other taxes are bylaw collected, which shall be in lieu of all
other taxes and assessments. Chapter 190 of the Acts of 1887
enacted that any company incorporated under the laws of
Tennessee, having by its charter the right to receive moneys

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in trust or otherwise, should be held to have the power to receive deposits, and loan the same and its capital stock on any
kind of commercial, or business paper, or real estate, buy and
sell exchange, and all kinds of public or private securities and
commercial paper. It was also further provided in that act
"that the exercise of any of the granted powers should not
operate to forfeit any franchise, right, power, privilege or immunity granted in the original charter, aid that the non-user
of a part of a corporation's powers, privileges and franchises
should not have the effect of forfeiting any franchise, right,
power, privilege or immunity contained in its charter."
On the 23d of January, 1889, the legislature passed an act
changing the name of the corporation plaintiff in error from
that of the Memphis City Fire and General Insurance Company to that of the Memphis City Bank, and since that time
it has conducted business under the latter name. From its
first organization in 1870 down to the present time it has
regularly and constantly paid to the State of Tennessee the
charter tax provided for in section seven of its charter, and
has regularly filed with the comptroller of the State the statement required and called for by the seventh section of that
charter.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee delivered
upon the demurrer to the bill in this case will be found
reported in 7 Pickle, 574, under the name of Memphis v.
.Memyhis City Bank. In the year 1872 the State of Tennessee, the county of Shelby, and the city of Memphis undertook
to tax the shares of stock of the Memphis City Fire and General Ifsurance Company at their market value in the hands
of the shareholders, at the same rate as other property was
taxed. The shareholders denied this right and claimed an
exemption from all taxation except to the extent of the tax
provided for in thie seventh section of the charter. Theieupon an agreed case was made up between the -parties, the
State of Tennessee on the one side and Napoleon Hill, a stockholder in the company, on behalf of all the other stockholders
on the other side. The case was made in conformity with
the laws of Tennessee, and the question submitted to the

MEMPHIS CITY BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Counsel for Parties.

Second Chancery Court of Shelby County and State of Tennessee to determine whether the said county or State had the
right to impose a tax upon the shares other than the one half
of one per cent provided for in its charter. The case was
regularly heard in the Second Chancery Court of Shelby
County, and decided in favor of the shareholders, and against
the power to tax. It was then carried to the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, where the decision of the chancery court was
reversed, and the power to tax affirmed. The case was heard
in the Supreme Court in connection with several cases of the
same character under the title of the City of .Memphi8 v.
Willam .M. Farrington,8 Baxter, 539. Mr. Hill sued out a
writ of error from this court in behalf of himself and the other
shareholders, and the case was regularly heard in this court
upon the Federal question, and upon that hearing this court
reversed the decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee and
affirmed that of the Second Chancery Court of Shelby County,
and upon a mandate properly issued from this court to the
state court a judgment was entered in favor of said Hill and
the other shareholders in the company. The case, as decided
by this court, is reported under the name of Farringtonv.
Tennessee 95 U. S. 679. The plaintiffs in error herein rely
upon that final decree as being a full, final, and complete adjudication of all questions involved in this case, and as being res
judicata and binding upon the parties hereto.
Upon these agreed facts the case was tried and judgment
given for the shareholders, which upon appeal was reversed by
the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and judgment entered for the
city of Memphis for the recovery of taxes upon the shares of
stock in the Memphis City Bank and upon the surplus and undivided profits for the years therein named, and it is to review
this judgment that the plaintiffs in error come here.
.Mr. T B. Turley, (with whom were Mr. T. -M. Scruggs
and .r. I. E. Wright on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
.'Mr. S. P. Walker, (with whom were Mr. C. W. -Metca~fand
Mr. .. T. Edmondson on the brief,) for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
Mr. JUSTICE PEcKiAM,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the Court.
The question in this case is whether the corporation plaintiff in error, could, while availing itself of the general act,
(chapter 190, Acts of 1887, above referred to,) change its business from that of insurance, as provided in its charter granted
in January, 1870, to that of banking, and still retain the exemption from the payment of any taxes other than those provided
for in section seven of that charter. After such change of
business and by virtue of section fourteen of the general revenue law of the State, passed in 1887, the State assumed to
tax the plaintiffs in error at a greater rate than that provided
for in the original charter, and it is to collect these taxes that
this suit is brought. At the time the act of 1887 (chapter 190)
was passed, under which the corporation plaintiff in error
claimed the right to change its business, (while also at the
same time claiming that right under its original charter,) the
constitution of Tennessee, adopted in 1870, was in full force.
That constitution provided, article 2, section 28, that "all
property, real, personal or mixed, shall be taxed, but the legislature may except such as may be held by the State, counties,
cities or towns." By section 8, article 2 of the constitution of
1870 it was provided, among other things, "that no corporation
shall be created or its powers increased or diminished by
special laws, but the general assembly shall provide by general laws for the organization of all corporations hereafter
-reated, which laws may at any time be altered or repealed,
and no such alteration or repeal shall interfere with or divest
rights which have become vested."
Under these two provisions of the constitution, giving effect
to both, the legislature could not even by general law grant or
preserve an immunity from taxation, not otherwise existing.
total or partial, to the capital stock or shares of a corporation.
The twenty-eighth section of the second article of the constitution requires that all property shall be taxed except such as is
exempt by that section, or is by that section authorized to be
-exempt by the legislature, and this kind of property in question

MEMPHIS CITY BANK v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

in this case does not come within either class spoken of in that
section. We think that the change from the business of insur,
ance to that of banking is a material and radical change, and
to such an extent that the legislature, under the constitution
of 1870, would have no power to continue an exemption from
taxation granted by the charter to the insurance company so
that it should continue to exist in favor of a company exercising an exclusively banking business. The legislature was
powerless in the face of the constitutional provision mentioned
to provide "that the exercise of any of the granted powers
should not operate to forfeit any franchise, right, power, privilege or immunity" granted in the original charter. The
Supreme Court of Tennessee has so construed the constitution.
7 Pickle, 574.
That court holds that the legislatute could not, by enacting
such a proviso in connection with the authority given by it to
a corporation to change its business, transfer an exemption
from taxation granted to that corporation while exercising
the powers originally granted to it by its charter prior to the
adoption of the constitution of 1870.
The substantial effect of chapter 190, Acts of 1887, when
made applicable to any company having, by its charter, the
right to receive moneys in trust or otherwise, was to grant a
new charter to the extent of granting banking powers, and
the company, availing itself of the privileges mentioned in
such act, took them subject to the constitution and laws then
in force. It was not, properly speaking, a mere act increasing
the powers of the corporation so that such corporation could
perform other acts of a nature similar to those which it was
already authorized to perform by its original charter. It was
not an increase but it was a change of powers to the extent
that those granted by the act of 1887 were of a totally different
character and nature. An insurance corporation differs radically from a banking corporation, and the powers given to one
cannot be exercised by the other without some authority
granted by the State through its legislature. This corporation, plaintiff in error, since the passage of the act in question,
has not only availed itself of the privileges therein granted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

but it has totally abandoned the exercise of the powers origi-,
nally granted to it in its charter of 1870, and by such abandonment on the one hand and the exercise of the privileges granted
to it by the act of 1887 on the other, it has become, in substance and effect, a banking corporation, and, necessarily, it
must look to the act of 1887 as its authority for the exercise
of its banking privileges. The original contract of exemption
from taxation was manifestly granted to the original corporation to be availed of by it while it was in the exercise of its
corporate powers as an insurance company. It cannot be held
to go with the corporation when it abandons the performance
of the acts authorized in its original charter and proceeds to
exercise the privileges of and do a business as a banking corporation by virtue of the act of 1887. As a result, when it.
assumes to make use of the priyileges granted to it under the
act last named, it must do so subject to the constitution and
laws existing at the time when that act was passed, and
its rights and privileges must be exercised in subordination
thereto.
Upon the proposition argued by plaintiffs in error, that
they have the right to engage in their present business of
banking by virtue of the original charter, we are of opinion
that such right does not exist. The power to receive in trust
for any person moneys or other valuable thing, and of giving
their acknowledgment therefor, and to loan their surplus funds
as provided in the second section of the original charter, in no,
sense authorizes them to conduct a general banking business.
They must look to the act of 1887 alone for their power to
transact that kind of business, and, for the reasons we have
stated, they are not entitled to the exemption provided for in
section 7 of their charter.
Second. We do not think that the plea of esjudicata can
be upheld upon the facts as stated. The former judgment
was entered in an action commenced long prior to the act of
1887 to recover taxes alleged to have become due while the
corporation plaintiff in error was engaged in its original business of an insurance company, and the judgment was upon
the right of .its shareholders to be exempt from any further

