SPALDING v. VILAS.
Counsel for Parties.

SPALDING v. VILAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 81.

Argued November 21, 1895. -Decided

March 2, 1896.

It was the duty of the Postmaster General to cause all cheques or warrants
issued under the authority of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22 Stat.
487, and of the act of August 4, 1886, c. 903, ยง 8, 24 Stat. 256, 307, 308,
to be sent directly to the claimants, and it was his right to call their attention to the provisions of the act of 1883; and if the legislation to
which attention was thus invited worked injury to an attorney employed
by such claimants to present their claims, in that it gave his clients an
opportunity to evade, for a time, the payment of what they may have
agreed to allow him, it was an injury from which no cause of action
could arise.
The Postmaster General was directly in the line of duty when, in order that
the will of Congress as expressed in the act of 1883 might be carried out,
he informed claimants that they were under no legal obligation to respect any transfer, assignment or power of attorney, which section 3477
of the Revised Statutes declared to be null and void. If the plaintiff had
not taken any such transfers, assignments, or powers of attorney from
his clients, he could not have been injured by the reference made by the
Postmaster General to that section. If he had taken such instruments,
he cannot complain that the Postmaster General called the attention of
claimants to the statute on the subject, and correctly interpreted it.
The act of the head of one of the Departments of the government in calling
the attention of any person having business with such Department to a
statute relating in any way to such business, cannot be made the foundation of a cause of action against such officer.
The same general considerations of public policy and convenience which
demand for judges of courts of superior jurisdiction immunity from
civil suits for damages arising from acts done by them in the course of
the performance of their judicial functions, apply to a large extent to
official communications made by heads of Executive Departments when
engaged in the discharge of duties imposed upon them by law.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mtr. W. Willoughby for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendant
in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

HA LAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in general term,
which affirmed a final order in the same court in special term,
sustaining a demurrer to the declaration filed by the plaintiff
in error Spalding against, the defendant Filas, and dismissing
the plaintiff's action.
The question presented for determination is whether the
plaintiff's declaration stated a valid cause of action against
the defendant.
The plaintiff alleged that he was a citizen of the District
of Columbia, and had been for more than twenty years an
attorney-at-law, practising his profession in the city of Washington, and that the defendant, from March 4, 1885, until
January 16, 1888, was the Postmaster General of the United
States;
That "in or about the year 1871, he, the said plaintiff, was
employed by a considerable number of persons, who were and
had been postmasters at different post offices in the United
States, to obtain a review and readjustment of their salaries,
in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress of
June 12, 1866, relating thereto, and which enacted that when
the quarterly returns of the postmasters of the third, fourth,
and fifth classes, mentioned therein, showed that their salary
allowed is ten per centum less than it would be on the basis
of commissions under the act of June 22, 1854, fixing their
compensation, they were entitled to have their compensation
reviewed and readjusted under the provisions of said act of
1854, by reason of which a large number of such postmasters
had just and valid claims against the United.States arising
from such readjustment, and a large number of them entered
into written contracts with the plaintiff, employing him, and
providing a reasonable compensation to him for procuring the
same, and gave to him written powers of attorney to act for
them in'the prosecution of said claims and to receive the
drafts which might be issued in payment thereof;" and,
That "upon making and filing applications .at the Post.

SPALDING v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Office Department in behalf of his clients for such readjustment and review, the same was denied, notwithstanding such
act of Congress, whereupon the plaintiff took measures to
procure mandatory legislation by Congress and appropriations
necessary, pressing such legislation by all lawful means in his
power in the different Congresses from 1871 to 1886, giving
to such efforts a great amount of his time, and in the meantime procuring similar contracts and applications and powers
of attorney from several thousands of postmasters of the said
c]asses throughout different parts of the United States, and
filing in the Post Office Department such applications and
powers of attorney, and expending a good many thousands
of dollars in building up a business in the collection of such
claims, relying upon the justice thereof, and finally obtaining
the passage of the acts of. Congress of March 3, 1883, requiring the Postmaster General of the United States, upon proper
presentation of such claims, to compute and pay the same;
an act of Congress of July 7, 1884, making appropriations for
the payment of such claims; a furtheract'f Congress of
March 3, 1885, making a like appropriation; and a similar
act of Congress of August 4, 1886, making further appropriations therefor, all of which acts were brought about in consequence of the continual and .persistent efforts of the plaintiff,
under which acts the plaintiff proceeded to make out papers
and proofs for the presentation of such claims in behalf of his
clients, and filed the same, with powers of attorney to him,
as aforesaid, in the said Post Office Department, and commenced the collection of the same, a large number of said
claims prior to March, 1885, and which were good and valid,
being, however, repudiated by the Post Office Department,
and the prosecution of such claims being made more difficult
by great hostility of the persons managing such department
to the collection of this class of claims;"
The declaration also alleged that "soon after the 3d day of
March, 1885, the plaintiff made application to the defendant,
in his capacity of Postmaster General of the United States, to
adjust and pay the said claims which had been disallowed,
and also to review and readjust claims of the same character

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

which had not before been presented, which applications were
refused, and an acrimonious controversy arose between the
said defendant and this plaintiff in relation thereto, the said
defendant, among other things, endeavoring to obtain legislation by Congress to impair and destroy the rights of the
plaintiff under the said contracts, in which, however, he
failed; but to further harass the plaintiff, and to injure him
in his good name and in his business, without any good
reason therefor, and with malicious intent, the said defendant interposed all possible obstacles to the collection of said
claims, and undertook to induce the clients of the plaintiff to
repudiate the contracts they had made, and for such purpose,
and with such malicious intent, caused the drafts for the payment of such claims to be sent directly to the claimants, and
for the malicious purpose of causing the claimants to disregard the contracts they had made with the plaintiff for fees,
and to cause them to believe that the same vere null and void,
and that plaintiff had rendered them no service, and that he
was attempting falsely to claim for valuable services rendered
under said contracts, falsely claimed to be valid, and using
his official character for such purpose, thus placing the plaintiff before the country as a common swindler; and to bring
him into public scandal, infamy, and disgrace, and to injure
his business, with each letter of transmittal of drafts to said
claimants caused to be issued and sent to them, between September, 1886, and January 17, 1888, to a great number, to wit,
four thousand of the said claimants, clients of the plaintiff,
residing in the States of New York, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and
the Territories of Utah, Washington, and Wyoming, the circular, of which the following is a copy, the same being dated
and addressed to each claimant, respectively, stating the sum
transmitted and the name and post office of such claimant,
respectively, and. having added thereto, in print, section 8 of
the act of August 4, 1886, and section 3477 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, to wit:

SPALDING v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

"POST OF E DEPARTmENT,
OFnIaE OF THE THIMn ASSISTANT POsTm!sTE GENERAL,
"DrvisIoN OF FrANoB, WAsHINGToN, D. C., -,
188-.

-"

"Sn: Herewith inclosed you will find warrant payable to
your order for $-,
which is in full liquidation of your
claim for the balance unpaid of the readjusted salary of
"
, postmaster at, State of
"In transmitting it I am directed by the Postmaster General to advise you that in the act of 1883, which provided
for readjustments of salary, the Congress directed that all
checks or warrants should be made payable to the claimants
and transmitted direct to them, and that in the appropriation
and enactment on this subject by Congress, a copy of which is
printed at the foot of this note, the direction was repeated.
This was done because no attorney's services were necessary to
the presentation of the claim before the department, and the
Congress desired all the proceeds to reach the person really
entitled thereto. After a claim of this character is filed in the
department its examination and the readjustment of the
salary, if found proper, are made directly from the books and
papers in the department by its officers, and without further
evidence.
"You ararfurther advised that by section 3477 of the
Revised Statutes, a copy of which is also printed at the foot of
this note, any transfer of this claim or power of attorney for
receiving payment of this warrant is null and void.
"Yours respectfully,

J. H. HARMus,

"Third Assistant Postmaster General.
"See statutes referred to on next leaf;"
It was alleged that the said circular was intended to deceive
and did deceive the said claimants, who believed what the
defendant meant and intended, as hereinbefore stated, of and
cokicerning the plaintiff, and was false in the following respects, to wit: '(1) that "in the act of 1883, which, provided
for readjustments of salary, the Congress directed that all

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

cheques or warrants should be transmitted direct to the claimants, and that such direction was repeated in the act of 1886 ;"
(2) that "this was done because no attorney's services were
necessary to the presentation of the claim before the department ;" (3) that "this was done because the Congress desired
all the proceeds to reach the person really entitled thereto;"
(4) that "the statement that claims of this character, after
being filed in the department, were examined and readjusted
directly from the books and papers in the department, without further evidence, besides being untrue, in many cases was
unnecessary to protect the interests of the government or the
claimant, was not required by law, and was maliciously
intended to cause the claimants to believe that the plaintiff's
claim for valuable services was fdlse and fraudulent, and the
same was inserted for no other purpose."
The declaration further alleged that "the reference to section 34'77 in said circular, and the printing of the whole of
said section, was for the malicious purpose only of causing the
claimants to believe that the said contracts for fees, before
suggested in said circular, were null and void according to a
pretended official ruling of the Post Office Department; while
in truth and in fact the said section had no reference to any
contracts of the kind, nor to contracts of the character hereinbefore described as made by the plaintiff with such claimants ;" that "all of said false statements or irrelevant references and printing of said section 357 of the Revised Statutes
were unnecessary, malicious, and without reasonable or probable cause, and intended to deceive the claimants, and to
thereby induce them to repudiate the contracts they had made
with the plaintiff, and they understood said circular as meant
and intended, as herein stated, of and concerning the plaintiff;
and they were deceived, and did repudiate their said contracts
by reason thereof, to the great injury of the good name of the
plaintiff and to his business, and for no other purpose;" and
that "soon after commencing to issue such circulars the attention of the defendant was called by the plaintiff to the fact
that the issuing of such circulars produced great injury to his
business and was unjust towards him; but the said defendant,

SPALDING v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

notwithstanding, maliciously continued the said issue, so long
as he held the position of Postmaster General of the United
States, to all the claimants he could reach, and to the number
of four thousand, as aforesaid, for no other purpose than to
.continue the said injury to this plaintiff."
In consequence of the alleged acts of the defendant the
plaintiff claimed to have been put to great trouble and expense
in enforcing the said contracts, had lost the benefit of many
of them, at.an expense and loss of $25,000; and, besides, had
suffered injury to his good name and reputation to the amount
of $75,000. He prayed judgment for $100,000, besides costs
and disbursements.
Section 3477 of the Revised Statutes referred to in the
circular made part of the declaration is as follows: "All
transfers and assignments made of any claim upon the United
States, or of any part or share thereof, or interest therein,
whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the
consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders or
other authorities for receiving payment of any such claim,
or of any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and
void, unless they are freely made and executed in the presence
of at least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such
a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due and the issuing
of a warrant for the .payment thereof. Such transfers, assignments and powers of attorney must recite the warrant for
payment, and must be acknowledged by the person making
them beforp an officer having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be certified by the officer; and it
must appear by the certificate that the officer, at the time of
the acknowledgment, read and fully explained the transfer,
assignment or warrant of attorney to the person acknowledging the same."
The thought which underlies the entire argument for the
plaintiff is that the circular issued from the Post Office
Department, by direction of the Postmaster General, was
beyond the scope of any authority possessed by that officer;
and, therefore, the sending of the circular to the persons who
had presented claims against the government was not justi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1,895.
Opinion of the Court.

fled by law, and would not protect the Postmaster General
from responsibility for the injury done to the plaintiff from
that act.
The statute of March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22 Stat. 487, relating
to the readjustment of the salaries of postmasters of certain
classes, provided that every readjustment of salary, under that
act, should be upon a written application, signed by the postmaster, or late postmaster, or legal representative entitled to
such readjustment, and that "each payment made shall be by
warrant or check on the treasurer or some assistant treasurer
of the United States, made payable to the order of said applicant, and forwarded by mail to him at the post office within
whose delivery he resides, and which address shall be set forth
in the application above provided for." And, by the act of
August 4, 1886, c. 903, ยง 8, 24 Stat. 256, 307, 308, it was
declared that the payment of all sums thereby appropriated
"shall be made by warrants or cheques, as provided by the
said act of March 3, 1883, payable to the order of and transmitted to the persons entitled respectively thereto."
Whatever may have been the value of any services rendered
by the plaintiff for his clients; even if the readjustment of their
salaries was wholly due to his efforts "to procure mandatory
legislation by Congress, pressing such legislation by all lawful
means in his power," through many years, it was competent
for the legislative branch of the government to provide that
any sums ascertained -to be due to claimants should be paid
directly to them. Such a requirement could have had no
other object than to make it certain that the full amount due
to those whose salaries were readjusted was received by them
personally, and should not pass through the hands of agents
or attorneys. No one will question "thepower of Congress to
enact legislation that would effect such an object. Ball v.
Halsell, ante, 72. If such legislation worked injury to the
plaintiff in that it gave his clients an opportunity to evade,
for a time, the payment of what they may have agreed to
allow him, it was an injury from which no cause of action
could arise. This view is so clear that no argument in its
support is necessary.

SPALDJ.NG v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

It results that the Postmaster General not only had the
right, but it was his duty, to cause all cheques or warrants,
issued under the authority of the above acts of Congress, to
be sent directly to the claimants. If not strictly his duty, it
was his right to call the attention of claimants to the provisions of the act of 1883. Of the legislation of Congress every
one is presumed to have knowledge; but all know, as matter
of fact, that the larger part of the people are not informed as
to the provisions of many acts of Cdngress. No one could
rightfully complain that the Postmaster Generaj called the
attention of those having business with his Department to
an act of Congress that related to that business, and which
would explain why cheques or warrants, in their favor, were
sent directly to them, and were not delivered to agents or
attorneys.
Nor did the Postmaster General exceed his authority when
he informed claimants that Congress required cheques or warrants to be sent to them "because no attorney's services are
necessary to the presentation of the claim before the I~epartment, and Congress desired all the proceeds to reach the person really entitled thereto;" nor when he stated in his circular
that "after a claim of this character is filed in the Department,
its examination and the readjustment of salary, if found proper,
are made directly from the books and papers in the Department
by its officers, and without further evidence." Was it not true
that any claim, under these acts of Congress must be, or could
properly be, sustained or rejected according to the evidence
furnished by the records of the Department? Besides, the
statement that "no attorney's services were necessary to the
presentation of the claim," if not strictly accurate, was, at
most, only an expression of the opinion of the Postmaster
General in the course of his official duties. As he was
charged with the execution of the will of Congress in relation
to the readjustment of those salaries, he was entitled to express his opinion as to the object for which the act of 1883
was passed, and to indicate what, in his judgment, was necessary to be done in order to bring claims under that act properly before the Department. Indeed, the clear indication in

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1895.
Opinion of the Cour.

the act of 1883 of the desire of Congress that the full amount
awarded to claimants should be paid directly to them, rendered
it entirely appropriate that he should advise them of the fact
that the records of the Department furnished all the evidence
necessary for the readjustment directed by Congress. He did
not by his circular advise claimants that they could disregard
any valid contract made by them with attorneys. Claimants
could not have understood him as recommending a violation
of the legal rights of others. He said, in substance, nothing
more than that they, the claimants, were mistaken if they
supposed that the services of attorneys were required for
the presentation and prosecution of their claims before the
Department.
Equally without foundation is the suggestion that the Postmaster General exceeded his authority and duty when he
called the attention of claimants to section 34177 of the Revised
Statutes. That officer might well have apprehended that the
salutary provisions of that section had been overlooked or
disregarded by those interested or connected with the prosecution of these claims. If any claimant had -transferred or assigned his claim, or any part of it, or any interest therein, or
had executed any power of attorney, order or other instrument for receiving payment of such claim, or any part of it,
before the claim was allowed, and before its amount was ascertained and a warrant for its payment issued, such transfer,
assignment and power of attorney were null and void. The
Postmaster General was directly in the line of duty when, in
order that the will of Congress as expressed in the act of 1883
might be carried out, he informed claimants that they were
under no legal obligation to respect any transfer, assignment,
or power of attorney, which section 3477 of the Revised Statutes 'declared to be null and void. If the plaintiff had not
taken any such transfers, assignments, or powers of attorney
from his clients, he could not have been injured by the reference made by the Postmaster General to that section. If he
had taken such instruments, he cannot complain that the Postmaster General called the attention of claimants to the statute
on the subject, and correctly interpreted it.

SPALDING

.

VILAS.

Opinion of the Court.

The act of the head of one of the departments of the government in calling the attention of any person having business
with such department to a statute relating in any way to such
business, cannot be made the foundation of a cause of action
against such officers.
If, as we hold to be the case, the circular issued by the Postmaster General to claimants under the acts of. Congress in
question was not unauthorized by law, nor beyond the scope
of his official duties, can this action be maintained because of
the allegation that what the officer did was done maliciously?
This precise question has not, so far as we are aware, been
the subject of judicial determination. But there are adjudged
cases, in which principles have been announced that have some
bearing upon the present inquiry.
In Randall v. Brigham, 7 Wall. 523, 535- which was an
action against one of the Justices of the Superior Court of
Massachusetts for an alleged wrongful removal of the plaintiff from his office of an attorney and counsellor at law -it
was said that whatever might be the rule in respect of judges
of limited and inferior authority, judges of superior or general
authority were not liable to civil actions for their judicial acts,
even when such acts were in excess of their jurisdiction, "unless, perhaps, where the acts, in excess of jurisdiction, are done
maliciously or corruptly."
But in Bradley v. Fisher, 13 Wall. 335, 350, 351- which
was an action against a Justice of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia to recover damages alleged to have been
sustained by the plaintiff "by reason of the wilful, malicious,
oppressive and tyrannical acts and conduct" of the defendant,
whereby the plaintiff was deprived of his right to practise as
an attorney in that court -it
was said that the qualifying
words, above ,quoted, were not necessary to a correct statement of the law, -and that judges of courts of superior or general jurisdiction were not liable to civil suits for their judicial
acts, even when such acts were in excess of their jurisdiction,
and are alleged to have been done maliciously or corruptly.
A distinction was made between excess of jurisdiction and
the clear absence of all jurisdiction over the subject-mat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ter, the court observing that "where there is clearly no jurisdiction over the subject-matter, any authority exercised is a
usurped authority, and for the exercise of such authority,
when the want of jurisdiction is known to the judge, no excuse is permissible. In this country," the court said, "the
judges of the superior courts of record are only responsible to
the people, or the authorities constituted by the people,
from whom they receive their commissions, for the manner in
which they discharge the great trusts of their office. If in
the exercise of the powers with which they are clothed as
ministers of justice, they act with partiality, or maliciously,
or corruptly, or arbitrarily, or oppressively, they may be called
to an account by impeachment and suspended or removed
from office." Again: "The exemption of judges of the superior courts of record from liability to civil suit for the judicial
acts existing when there is jurisdiction of the subject-matter,
though irregularity and error attend the exercise of the jurisdiction, cannot be affected by any consideration of the motives
with Which the acts are done. The allegation of malicious
or corrupt motives could always be made, and if the motives
could be inquired into judges would be subjected to the same
vexatious litigation upon such allegations, whether the motives
had or had not any real existence."
In Yates v. Lansing, 5 Johns. 282, 291, Kent, 0. J., said:
"The doctrine which holds a judge exempt from a civil suit
or indictment for any act done or omitted to be done by him,
sitting as a judge, has a deep root in the common law. It is
to be found in the earliest judicial records, and it has been
steadily maintained by an undisputed current of decisions
in the English courts, amidst every change of policy, and
through every revolution of their government."
The same principle was announced in England in the case
of Fi'ay v. Blackburn, 3 B. & S. 576, in which Mr. Justice
Crompton said: "It is a principle of our law that no action
will lie against a judge of one of the superior courts for.a judicial act, though it be alleged to have been done maliciously
and corruptly; therefore, the proposed allegation would not
make the declaration good. The public are deeply interested

SPALDING v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

in this rule, which, indeed, exists for their benefit, and was established in order to secure the independence of the judges and
prevent them from being harassed by vexatious actions." The
principle was applied in one case for the protection of a county
court judge, who was sued for slander, the words complained
of having been spoken by him in his capacity as judge, while
sitting in court, engaged in the trial of a cause in which the
plaintiff was defendant. Chief Baron Kelly observed that a
series of decisions, uniformly to the same effect, extending
from the time of Lord Coke to the present time, established
the general proposition that no action will lie against a judge
for any acts done or words spoken in his judicial capacity in
a court of justice, and that the doctrine had been applied to
the court of a coroner, and to a court-martial, as well as to the
superior courts. He said: "It is essential in all courts that
the judges who are appointed to administer the law should be
permitted to administer it under the protection of the law,
independently and freely, without favor and without fear.
This provision of the law is not for the protection or benefit
of a malicious or corrupt judge, but for the benefit of the public, whose interest it is that the judges should be at liberty to
exercise their functions with independence and without fear
of consequences. How could a judge so exercise his office if
he were in daily and hourly fear of an action being brought
against him, and of having the question submitted to a jury
whether a matter on which he had commented judicially was
or was not relevant to the case before him?" Scott v. Stan8fteld, L. R. 3 Ex. 220, 223.
In Dawkins v. Lord Paulet, L. R. 5 Q. B. 94, 114, which
was an action for libel brought by an officer of the army
against his superior officer to recover damages on account of
a report made by the latter in relation to certain letters of the
former, the defendant claimed that what he did was done in
the course of and as an act of military duty. The replication
stated that the libel was written by the defendant of actual
malice, without any reasonable, probable or justifiable cause,
and not bonafide or in the bonafide discharge of the defendant's duty as such superior officer. The case was heard on

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

demurrer to the replication, and it was held by all the justices
(Cockburn, 0. J., only dissenting) that the action would not
lie. The case was first considered in the fight of the pleadings and the admissions of the demurrer. Mellor, J., said: "I
apprehend that the motives under which a man acts in doing
a duty which it is incumbent upon him to do, cannot make
the doing of that duty actionable, however malicious they
may be. I think that the law regards the doing of the duty
and not the motives from or under which it is done. In short,
it appears to me, that the proposition resulting from the
admitted statements in this record amounts to this: Does an
action lie against a man for maliciously doing his duty? I
am of opinion that it does not; and, therefore, upon the pleadings as they stand we might give judgment for the defendant." But, according to the report of that case, the Attorney
General did not rest the defence on the effect of the admissions in the pleadings, but contended broadly that no action
would lie against an officer of the army charged with duties
such as those stated on the record, for the discharge of them.
He likened the case to that of the judges of courts of law, to
grand jurymen, petty jurymen, and to witnesses, against whom
no action lies for what th6y do in the course of their duty,
however maliciously they may do it, and -claimed immunity
for the defendant for the acts done in the course of his duty
on the highest grounds of policy and convenience. No judge,
no jury, nor witness, he said, "could discharge his duty
freely if not protected by a positive rule of law from being
harassed by actions in respect of the mode in which he did
the duty imposed upon him, and he contended that the position of the defendant manifestly required the like protection
to be extended to him and to all officers in the same position."
"There is," Mellor, J., said, "little doubt that the reasons which
justify the immunity in the one case do in great measure extend
to the other."
An instructive case upon the general subject of the immunity of public officers from actions for damages on account of
what they may have done in the course of their official duties
is Dawkins v. Lord Rokeby, L. IR. 8 Q. B. 255, 262, the judg-

SPALDING v. VILAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ment in which was affirmed by the House of Lords. L. R. 7
H. L. 744, 754. The defendant, a general in the English
army, was called before a court of inquiry, legally assembled
to inquire into the conduct of the plaintiff, also an officer -in
the army. He made statements in evidence, and after the
close of the evidence, handed in a written paper (not called
for by the court, but having reference to the subject of the
inquiry) as to the conduct of that officer. An action was
brought in respect of those statements, which were alleged to
be both untrue and malicious. That case came before the
Queen's Bench, in the Exchequer Chamber, upon a bill of
exceptions allowed by Mr. Justice Blackburn, who had instructed the jury as matter of law that the action would not
lie, if the verbal and written statements complained of were
mad6 by the defendant, being a-military officer, in the course
of a military inquiry, in relation to the conduct of the plaintiff, he being also a military officer, and with reference to the
subject of that inquiry; and this even though the plaintiff
should prove that the defendant had acted mala Jde,and with
actual malice, and without any reasonable or probable cause,
and with the knowledge that the statements made and handed
in by him were false. The court, all the judges concurring, sustained the correctness of this ruling, and held that the statements were privileged. "The authorities," it was said, "are
clear, uniform and conclusive, that no action of libel or slander
lies, whether against judges, counsel, witnesses or parties, for
words written or spoken in the ordinary course of any proceeding before any court or tribunal recognized by law."
Lord Chancellor Cairns, in the House of Lords, said: "Adopting the expressions of the learned judges with regard to what
I take to be the settled law as to the protection of witnesses
in judicial proceedings, I certainly am of opinion that upon
all principles, and certainly upon all considerations of convenience and public policy, the same protection which is
extended to a witness in a.judicial proceeding who has been
examined on oath ought to be extended, and must be extended,
to a military man who is called before a court of inquiry of
this kind for the purpose of testifying there upon a matter of
voL. CLXI-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

military discipline connected with the army. It is not denied
that the statements which he made, both those which were
made viva voce and those which were made in writing, were
relative to the inquiry."
We are of opinion that the same general considerations of
public policy and convenience which demand for judges of
courts of superior jurisdiction immunity from civil suits for
damages arising from acts done by them in the course of the
performance of their judicial functions, apply to a large
extent to official communications made by heads of Executive Departments when engaged in the discharge of duties
imposed upon them by law. The interests of the people
require that due protection be accorded to them in respect
of their official acts. As in the case of a judicial officerwe
recognize a distinction between action taken by the head of
a Department in reference to matters which, are manifestly
or palpably beyond his authority, and action having more or
less connection with the general matters committed by law
to his control or supervision. Whatever difficulty may arise
in applying these principles to particular cases, in which the
rights of the citizen may have been materially impaired by
the incopasiderate or wrongful action of the head of a Department, it'
is clear -and the present case requires nothing more
to be determined - that he cannot be held liable to a civil
suit for damages on account of official commuiiications made
by him pursuant to an act of Congress, and in respect of
matters within his authority, by reason of any personal
motive that might be alleged to have prompted his action;
for, personal motives cannot be imputed to duly authorized
official conduct. In exercising the functions of his office, the
head of an Executive Department, keeping within the limits
of his authority, should not be under an apprehension that
the motives that control his official conduct may, at any time,
become the subject of inquiry in a civil suit for damages. It
would seriously cripple the proper and effective administration of public affairs as entrusted to the executive branch of
the government, if he were subjected to any such restraint.
He may have legal authority to act, but he may have such

