'OCTOBER TERM, .1886.
- Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

WOOD v. FORT WAYN{E.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISRICT OF INDIAN.
Argued November 16, 1886.-Decided December 6, 1886.

In this case, the court construed the language of a written contract for
supplying materials and labor in constructing water works for the city
of Fort Wayne, Indiana, in regard to extra work, and an increase in the
quantity of work, caused by an alteration of plan; and in regard to
defects in materiMs furnished by the city, causing delay and expense to
the contractor; and reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court because
of an erroneous construction by it of such language.

This-was an action- brought by plaintiffs in error (who were
plaintiffs below) to recover from defendant the cost of certain
materials and work connected with the furnishing and laying
of water pipes for the water works of the city. The-case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
J11r. John Rodman Paul and 2fr. George F. Biddle, for
plaintiff in error, cited: Springgfeld v. HZarris, 107"MYass. 532;
Dermott v. Jones, 23 H1ow. 220 ; Dermott, v. Jones, 2 Wall. 1.
.Aanfaturing Co. v. United States, 17 Wall. 592; Adams
v. Cosby, 48 Ind. 153; &illington v. Tenmpleton, 66 Ind. 585;
]Dubois v. Del. & ea. Canal Co., 12 Wend. 334; Bestor v.
United States, 3 0. 01. 425; .Aessenger v. Buffalo, 21 N. Y.
196; Emerson v. Slater, 22 How. 28; Canal Co. v. Bay, 101
U. S. 522; .Munroe v. Perkins, 9 Pick. 298; S. C. 20 Am. Dec.
475; Williams v. Bank of United States, 2 Pet. 96; Swain
t. Seamens, 9 Wall. 254; Ins. Co. v. 2Yorton, 96 U. S. 234;
Ins. Co. v. Eggleston, 96 U. S. 572; Ins. Co. v. Doster, 106 U.
'S. 30; .Rho es v. Thomas, 2 Ind. 638; Bates v. Dehaven, 10
Ind. 319; Billingsley v. Stratten, 11 Ind. 396; Smith v.
Gugerty, 4 Barb. 614; Grant v. United States, 5 0. 01. 71;
Wfolcott v. Wolcott, 19 Vt. 37; Jeferson County v. Slagle, 66
Penn. St. 202; Heald v. Cooper, 8 Maine, 32.

tjWOOD v. FORT WAYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

.A.

L. X.

3inde,

for defendant in error, cited: ('-osby v.

'Food,6 N. Y. 369; Reynolds v. Yugent, 25 Ind. 328; Bartlett v. TMyn n, 14 Johns. 260; Deacon v. Gridley, 15 C. B.
295; ilfallalien v. HZodgsom, 16 Q. B. 689; Conover v. Stillwell,
34 N. J. L. (5 Vroom), 54 ; Cobb v. Cowdery, 40 Vt. 25 ; Ford
v. Garner, 15 Ind. 298 ; Rwunnam'ikr v. Cordray,54 IM. 303 ;
Ingle v. Jones, 2 Wall. 763; Clarwk v. Nrew York, 4 N. Y.
338; . Ct. 53 Am. Dec. 379.
MR. JUSTICE BLA.TCo

oRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought October 26th, 1881, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana,
by Richard Wood and others, partners, doing business as R.
D. Wood & Co., in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, against the
city of Fort Wayne, a municipal corporation in Indiana, to
recover damages for the, alleged breach by the latter of a
written agreement made between it and the plaintiffs, on the
10th of September, 1879, in reference to the construction by
the latter of water works in the city of Fort Wayne. The
agreement was made between the city, by its "trustees of
water works," of the first part, and R. D. Wood & Co., of
the second part, and bore the seal of the city3 and the statement that it was "approved by the City Council, September
15th, 1879," signed by the clerk.
By the contract, the party of the second part agrees, for
the consideration mentioned in it, "to do all the work and
furnish all the materials called for by this agreement, and in
strict accordance with the specifications and requirements as
hereinafter set forth. And that the said city shall have the
right to appoint such civil engineer, and inspectors under him,
as the trustees of water works may deem advisable; and that
said engineer shall determine the amount of Work and materials to be paid for under this contract, decide all questions
relative to the execution thereof, and his estimate and decision
shall be final and conclusivO. The whole to be in accordance
with the preceding proposal signed by the said second party,
and conformably to the following specifications, both of which

OCTOBER TERM, '1886..
Opinion of the Court.

are to be mutually considered, as to all expressions, intents,
and purposes, as a part of this contract."
The material parts of the agreement, out of which the
questions involved in the suit arise, are as follows:
"Specifications. The work to be done consists in furnishing . . . cast-iron water-pipes," some "of sizes ranging
from 24 inches to 4 inches diameter;

.

.

.

also, in

trenches, laying pipes and special castings, including back
filling, setting valves, constructing and setting valve-boxes,
vaults and covers, and setting hydrants, including all crossings
of rivers and canals.
"The delivery of the pipe shall commence on or before the
first day of October, 18t9, and be continued with regularity
until the completion of the contract, which shall be on or
before the first day of June, 1880. Special castings -shall be
delivered as may be required by the engineer.
"Pipe-laying will consist in excavating and refilling trenches;
in taking up and replacing pavements or other surfaces; in
hauling and laying pipes, setting special castings, stop-cocks,
air-cocks, check-valves, hydrants, and all other appurtenances
incident to the pipe distribution; -in cutting pipes, making
joints, preparing foundations, building brick or stone vaults,
blow-off wells; in repairing damages caused to gas-pipes,
sewers, drains, and cisterns; in clearing the streets and
grounds of all rubbish or refuse caused by the above work; jn
furnishing lead and gasket for joints, fuel for melting lead,
clay and rope for bands, blocks and wedges for use under
pipes, wrought-iron straps for securing caps, reducers, and
other parts liable to draw; in furnishing and setting or constructing boxes or vaults for stop-cocls, air-cooks, man-holes,
including furnishing and fitting cast-iron frames and covers
thereto; in furnishing sand and al. other materials for
masonry, and all tools and labor necessary for the complete
fulfilment of this contract. .
"The above work to be done in the city of Fort Wayne,
Indiana, along the lines and in the streets, as indicated on the distribution map in the office of the trustees or city engineer's
office, and in such other streets and places in said city as may

WOOD v. FORT WAYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

be directed. The trenches for the pipes shall be opened in
accordance with the lines and grades as given or directed by
the engineer.

"All pipes, special castings, stop-cocks, air-cocks, check-valves,
and hydrants will be furnished to the contractor in the city
pipe-yard, or oh the cars upon which they are received from
the foundry. They will be delivered to him as soon as received, and it shall be his duty to notify the engineer of any
defects or breakage before removal from cars; otherwise, all
damage arising from such cause shall be -made good by said
contractor. - The contractor shall have no claim upon the city
for any delay in the delivery of pipes or other materials from
the manufacturers.
"Stop-cocks, air-cocks, hydrants, special castings, and all other
parts pertinent to the supply or distribution, shall be set or
laid at the required points in such manner as the engineer may
direct.
"1Abox or vault, of wood or masonry, shall be furnished and
set over each of the stop-cocks, and over each of the air-cocks
and man-hole pipes, and the iron frames and covers shall be
properly fastened to them. These boxes are to be made of
the form and dimensions shown on the plans furnisheol, and
approved by the engineer.
"And the said party of the second part hereby agrees to
receive, and the said first party hereby agrees to pay, the following prices as full compensation for the work contemplated
in this contract:
"(1.) For laying the pipes and all special castings appertaining thereto, setting check-valves, stop-cocks, and air-cocks,
including the excavation and refilling of trenches; all bailing,
and shoring, and rammifig; the taking up and replacing paving or other surface of the streets; the removal of all rejected
or surplus materials from the grounds or streets; the repairing
of damage caused to gas-pipes, sewers, drains, streets, cisterns,
etc.; and the expense of avoiding such obstructions; the hauling of all pipes and other castings and appurtenances on to the
grounds, and returning those not used to the pipe-yard; the
furnishing of all blocks and wedges, and all materials for

, 316

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

making the j6ints; the cutting of pipes; and all other expenses
of materials, tools, and labor required by the specifications and
incident to this particular work; the lengths to be measured
along the centre of the pipe, and in the case of branches as
starting from the centre of the main pipe -twenty four inch
pipe - the sum of sixty (60) cents per lineal foot.
"(5.) For furnishing and setting all wooden stop-cock and aircock boxes, including fitting and securing the iron covers, the
sum of each; cost is included in price for pipe laying.
"And it is hereby agreed that no claim for extra work shall
be made or-entertained, unless such extra work shall have
been done in obedience to a written order of the engineer and
trustees, and a stipulated price for same agreed upon, whenever such stipulation may be practicable. When otherwise,
such claims to be made to the trustees in writing within ten
days after the completion of such extra work, or before the
payment of the next succeeding monthly estimate after such
work is done, failing to do which all rights of the contractor
to such extra pay shall be forfeited.
"The said trustees shall have the right to make any alterations in the extent, dimensions, form, or plan of the work contemplated by this contract, either before or after the commencement of construction. If such alterations diminish the
quantity of work, the price paid shall be proportionately
diminished, and no anticipated profits allowed for the work
omitted. If they increase the work, such actual increase to be
paid for at contract rate for work of its class.
"All loss or damage arising out of the nature of the work
aforesaid, or from the action of the elements, or from any
unforeseen obstructions; or any difficulties that -maybe encountered in the prosecution of the same, also for all expenses
which may be incurred in consequence of the temporary suspension of any part of said work, shall be incurred by the contractor without extra charge to said city."
The complaint sets forth a compliance by the plaintiffs with
the contract, and the completion of the work September 1st,
1880,.and the failure of the defendant to pay.to them $4179.75
allowed by the contract to be retained by the defendant until
six months after the completion of the work.

WOOD v. FORT WAYNE.

317,

Opinion of the Court.

It also avers, in its second paragraph, that, before the contract was made, two agents of the plaintiffs were shown by
the trustees a distribution map in the office of the ,city engineer, as indicating the lines and streets on which the pipes
were to be laid, from which to make their bid for the work;
that, before making their bid, they examined the map, and
found that the main pipe leading from the pumping works to
the reservoir was to cross the St. Mary's River on the line of
Calhoun street; that they thereupon carefully examined the
river-bed in tlM, Calhoun-street line, and estimated that the
crossing of tne river at that place would cost only $500,
which was a correct estimate of such cost; that the bid of- the
plaintiffs for the work and the contract was made with express reference to the crossing of the river at that place; that
the contract expressly refers to such distribution map as showing the lines and the streets on which the work was to be
done, it being the only distribution map then on file in the
office of the trustees or in that of the city engineer; that, as
the plaintiffs were about commencing the work, their agents
were informed by the trustees and the engineer, that they bad
changed the plan of the work so as to make the crossing of
the river on the line of Clinton street instead of Calhoun
street, and the plaintiffs were ordered to.make the crossing at
Clinton street; that the plaintiffs, after their agents had
examined the river-bed at the Clinton-street crossing, and 1 ad
found that the water there was seven feet deep, (it being only
about two feet deep at the Calhoun-street crossing,) and that
the bed of the river was composed of quicksand, protested
. against the change, and declined to go on with the work
unless they would be paid for the extra or additional cost of
making the crossing at Clinton street, over the cost of 'making
it at Calhoun street; that the trustees requested such agents
not to make at that time any claim for extra work or extra'
pay for crossing the river, and insisted that the work should
be proceeded with, promising that they would in future make
it all right about such extra work; that such agehts gave to
the trustees notice in writing, that, by reason of such change,
the plaintiffs would demand extra pay for crossing at Clinton

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

street equal to the difference in cost over crossing at Calhoun
street; that, under the direction of the trustees and the engineer, the plaintiffs laid the main pipe across the river, on the
new line, at an additional cost, over the cost of crossing at
Calhoun street, of $4575; and that, within two days after the
completion of the work of crossing the river, such agents
made their claim in writing to the trustees for the extra work,
with an itemized account of its cost, the whole cost being
$5075, from which $500 was to be deducted, as the cost of
crossing at Calhoun street, the item being, "Extra expense on
river crossing with 24 inch pipe, caused by change of original
plan, $4575."

The complaint also contains, in its third paragraph, the
common counts, claiming $12,000 for work and labor done,
materials furnished, personal property sold and delivered, and
money paid, laid out, and expended. A bill of particulars
under this paragraph claims, in addition to the $4575, these
items: "Extra expense caused by special castings not fitting,
and delay in receiving same, in 20 inch line, $750 ; 149 wooden
valve-boxes, difference between those furnished and those contracted for, at $3, $447."
The defendant demurred to the second paragraph of the
complaint, but the demurrer was overruled. It then answered,
by a general denial and a plea of payment in full. It also set
up a claim of $3000 against the plaintiffs for work done by
the defendant which the plaintiffs were bound by the contract
to do, but neglected to do.
As to the second paragraph of the complaint, the answer
avers, that, when the contract was executed, it was stated to
the plaintiffs, and agreed, that no map or plan of distribution
of pipes had been made, but that the defendant's engineer,
Cook, would prepare such a map and plan and file it in the
office of the trustees or in that of the city engineer; that
such map and plan was to be the map and plan referred to in
the contract, and was to designate the streets on which the pipes
were to be laid, to all of which the plaintiffs then agreed; that
Cook prepared a plan and map, and it was filed; that, when
the plaintiffs commenced work, they inquired where the pipes

WOOD v. FORT WAYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

were to be laid, and the city engineer pointed out to them
where the work was to be done, and, at their request, prepared
a map and plan showing the manner in which the pipe was to
be laid under the river on the line of Clinton street, which the
plaintiffs accepted, and which was in accordance with Cook's
map and plan; that the plaintiffs then commenced work on
Clinton street, in excavating and laying pipes under the river,
where it crossed Clinton street, and according to such working
plan, without objecting; that it was no more difficult or
expensive to lay the pipe under the river on Clinton street
than it would have been to lay it under the river where the
river crosses Calhoun street; and that any expenditure over
$500, was the result of extravagance and nskilfulness.
As to the third paragraph of the complaint, the answer, in
its sxth paragraph, avers that all the materials were furnished,
and all the labor was performed, under the written contract,
at prices specially set forth therein; that the contract price
has been fully paid,; and that no written order was made by
the city engineer and the trustees, directing the plaintiffs to
furnish any extra materials or do any extra work.
A motion by the plaintiffs to strike out the sixth paragraph
of the answer was denied, and fhen the plaintiffs replied, denying generally the allegations of the answer.
The case was tried before a jury, who found a verdict for the
plaintiffs, for $4100, being the amount agreed to be due to the
plaintiffs, excluding the three above named items of $4575,
$750, and $447, amounting to $5772; and a judgment for
$4100, with interest and costs, was entered for the plaintiffs,
to review which they have brought this writ of error.
The plaintiffs gave some evidenca in support of the three
items amounting to $5772, (the defendant introducing no evidence,) but the court declined to allow the plaintiffs to introduce further testimony in support of those items, "on the
ground," as the bill of exceptions states, "that, notwithst nding the locatioi of the crossing of the St. Mary's at Calhoun
street, the defendant had a right, under its contract with the
plaintiffs, to change the place of crossing to Clinton street, as
it did, said contract securing to the defendant that right, and

OCTOBER -TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiffs had no right, under the contract between
the parties, to claim anything on account of either of the three
items." The court -also struck out all of the _plaintiffs' evidence, except the contract, in support of the three items, and
instructed the jury to return a erdict for the plaintiffs for
$4100. To these rulings and instruction the plaintiffs excepted.
This action of the Circuit Court is assigned for error.
We are of opinion that the court erred in its view of the
rights of the plaintiffs under the contract. The clause providing that no claim for extra work shall be made or entertained,
unless such extra work shall have been done in ,obedience to a
written order of the engineer and trustees, is an independent
clause from that which provides that the trustees shall have
the right to make any alterations in the plan of the work,
either before or after its commencement; and the extra work
referred to in the former clause does not embrace work done
in pursuance of an alteration made by the trustees in the plan.
The latter work may be, in one sense, extra work, but if it
results from an alteration of plan by the trustees, and there is,
in cofisequence, an increase in the quantity of work, the actual
increase is to be paid for, at the "contract rate for work of
its class." The extra work referred to in the former clause
required the authoritative written order of the engineer and
trustees; but, as the trustees had the right to alter the plan,
work done to carry out such alteration, when made by the
trustees, was authorized by the trustees, in a manner equivalent to a written order by them and the engineer., The change
of plan involved in crossing at Clinton street, was authority
for the additional cost of crossing there, without a written
order.
The contract states that the work is to be done "along the
lines and in the streets, as indicated on the distribution map."
The plaintiffs gave evidence tending to show that the map
which the plaintiffs' agents examined before making the contract did not then show a crossing at Clinton street; that the
plaintiffs consequently based their estimates and bid on a
crossing at Calhoun "street; that the change by the trustees
to Clinton street was notified to the plaintiffs on the day on

WOOD v. FORT WAYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

which.the work on the river was to begin; that the map was
subsequently marked with a crossing at Clinton street; and
that the increased cost caused by the change was $4575. The
contract expressly provides that, if the alteration of the plan
increases the quantity of work, the actual increase shall be
paid for by the city. The only measure of payment provided
for is the "contract rate for work of its class." The price
fixed in the contract, of 60 cents per lineal foot for laying 24
inch pipe, such as that used in crossing the river, was based
on the obstructions and difficulties to be expected in crossing
at Calhoun street, in two-feet of water, the general price'being'based on the laying of.the pipe on land, and the expense of
crossing the river at Calhoun street being estimated at $500,
in the price per lineal foot asked for laying 24 inch pipe.
The increase of cost in crossing at Clinton street was $4575.
The contract fixes no special rate for laying the pipe under
the river, and it cannot fairly be said that there was any contract rate for work of the class of that done in crossing the
river in the depth of water, and with the quicksand, found at
Clinton street. On the view taken by the defendant the
trustees could have made an alteration of plan requiring that
the pipes should traverse a great length of the river, in deep
water and quicksand, in crossing it diagonally, and the city
could have had "all the work done at the general. price per
lineal foot for laying the pipe. The contract is not capable of
such a construction. The actual increase of cost is to be paid
for.
The provision that all loss or damage arising "from any
unforeseen obstructions, or any difficulties that may be encountered in the prosecution of the" work, "shall be incurred by
the contractor without extra charge" to the city, cannot fairly
apply to the obstructions and difficulties at the changed place
of crossing, resulting from the increased depth of water and
the quicksand.
As to the claim for the $' 50, the "special castings" were to
be supplied by the defendant 'from a manufacturer at Fort
Wayne, and not by the plaintiffs. They were connections
between larger and smaller pipes. The plaintiffs had the
VOL. cxr-c-21

