BALDWIN v. BLACK.

6i1

Syllabus.

fully considered and determined in that case. The conveyance
was adjudged to be a mortgage. The rights of the defendants in the property were foreclosed, and the property was
ordered to be sold, and was sold, and the sale was confirmed
by the court. The conveyance to Ladd as the purchaser at
such sale transferred all the estate of the defendants in the
property. The question as to her ability to mortgage the
property cannot be raised again in this case; it has been finally
adjudged against her present contention.
3. The two decrees in the suit in the state court do not
conflict in the matters adjudged. The latter decree differs
from the first merely in giving the boundaries of the property
to be sold as one tract, and also the boundaries of each of the
seven parcels into which it was divided. This addition to the
original decree could be made by the court during the term in
which that decree was rendered. The court could lose jurisdiction over it only by the adjournment of the term with no
motion pending respecting it. When the second decree was
made, it would, as stated by the learned district judge, have
been a better course, "more orderly and convenient," as he
expresses it, "to have referred to the first one, and stated in
what particular the latter was intended to modify, supplement,
or supersede the former." But this was not essential; a comparison of the two decrees discloses the additions made to the
first one.
Judgment affl 'med.

BALDWIN v. BLACK.
LPPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIA2A.
Argued December 2, 3, I86.-Decided January 10, 18S7.

Where, under the Code of Iractice of Louisiana, a steam-tug is sequestered
by judicial process, and, under Art. 279, the plaintiff in sequestration
gives, a bond, with surety, to the sheriff, and takes the tug into his possession, and uses her, and afterwards restores her to the sheriff, he is

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
not liable to the defendant in sequestration for the fruits or revenues
of her use.
Being in the lawful possession of the tug, his agent is not liable to the
defendant in sequestration, either in contract or tort, in respect to any
earnings of the tug, or any compensation for or value of her use.
The claim of the plaintiff in sequestration having been founded on a mortgage on the tug, and it appearing that on a sale of her to him, on a judgment in his favor in the sequestration suit, there was a deficiency in the net
proceeds of her sale to pay the mortgage debt and certain lien and privileged debts, having precedence of the mortgage, which the plaintiff in
sequestration paid, under subrogations, legal as well as express, to the
rights of the creditors holding those debts, between the date of the seizure of the tug and the day of her sale, no cause of action could exist
against the plaintiff in sequestration in respect to any earnings received
by him from the use of the tug.

This was a suit in Admiralty, in pers~nam. The case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
JllT. Robert I.
argument.

Xorar for appellant submitted on his printed

iJfh. 1?. H. Browne for appellee. Mr. If. C. iiller for
same submitted on his printed argument.
Mrz. JusTiCoi BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in Admiralty, inpernam,brought in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, by Joseph C. Keyser against John W. Black. The
substance of the libel is, that Keyser was the owner of the
steam-tug C. C. Keyser; that, in October, 1877, the finn of
Neafie & Levy, holding a mortgage on the tug, brought suit
in a state court in Louisiana, against Keyser, and obtained a
writ of sequestration therein, and caused the sheriff to seize the
tug and hold it, until, on the application of Keafie & Levy, it
was released on bond; that thereupon Black took possession
of it, though he had no lawful right to do so, and used it in
towing for hire, on the Mississippi River, injuring -it and deteriorating its value; that the value of the use and services of
the tug, as made use of by Black "for his own behoof and
benefit," is $25,000 ; and that Black, by taking possession of

BALDWIN v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

and using the tug, is liable to Keyser for that amount, "as in
an implied contract." The libel prays for a decree that Black
pay it to Keyser.
The answer set up in defence the facts hereinafter recited
as those found by the Circuit Court, and denies that there is
any contract or obligation, implied or otherwise, on the part of
Black to Keyser.
On a hearing, the District Court pronounced for the libellant, and, on the report of a cormnissioner, entered a decree
that A. S. Baldwin and J. Levy & Co. "subrogated to the
rights of the libellant on undivided halves," recover from Black
$506.86. Black appealed to the Circuit Court, as also (lid'
Baldwin and Levy & Co. The Circuit Court made a finding
of facts, of which only the following are material in the view
we take of the case:
1. In October, 1877, 1Neafie & Levy, of Philadelphia, were
creditors of Keyser, the libellant, for $18,164, with interest, for
which amount they had a mortgage upon the tug, the debt
being for the price of the tug built by them for Keyser.
2. On October 11, 1877, they began suit in the Third District Court for the Parish of Orleans to collect that debt.
They sequestered the tug in accordance with the law, and in
due course recovered judgment against Keyser for the full
amount of their debt, with interest, and issued execution
against him. The tug was sold, under the execution, to them,
the judgment recognizing their mortgage, for $16,075, the
amount.was credited on their debt, and there remained due to
them by Keyser, on the judgment, after giving him credit for
all that was made on the execution, $3387, with interest.
3. During the pendency of that suit, the tug not having been
bonded by Keyser during the ten days allowed by law to him to
bond her, Neafie & Levy afterwards bonded her and she was
discharged, under the order of the court, into their possession,
under the release bond furnished by them under and in accordance with the 279th and 280th Articles of the Code of Practice. Black, the defendant, was the surety of Neafie & Levy
in the release bond, and was their agent to receive and hold
possession of the tug, and, under the order of release, did receive
and hold possession of her for them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

4. The tug was held under the release bond, by Nlafie &
Levy, through the defendant, as their agent, from October 25th,
1877, to January 10th, 1878, on which date she Was returned
to the custody of the sheriff. She was held by him under the
writ of sequestration in the suit of Neafie & Levy against
Keyser, until May 6th, 1878, when she was sold under the execution, issued in that suit, to satisfy the judgnent therein.
5. From October 25th, 1877, to December 27th, 1877, the
tug was in actual use in the business of towing vessels, by
Black, with the authority and under the direction of Neafie
& Levy, to whom he accounted for all her earnings; and he
acted throughout, in becoming surety, and in receiving, holding, and using the tug, as agent for Neafie & Levy.
6. The net amount of earnings so accounted for, and paid
to Neafie & Levy by Black, over expenses and disbursements
incident to the employment of the tug, was $2588.88.
7. When the tug was seized by Neafie & Levy under their
mortgage, she was encumbered with lien and privileged debts
to the amount of $4488.17, all of which, taking precedence of.
their mortgage, were paid by them under subrogations, legal
as well as express, to the rights of the creditors holding those
debts, the debts having been created by Keyger, and being his
debts, discharged by them, between the date of the seizure of
the tug under their sequestration and the day of the sale by
the sheriff to them.
On those facts the court found, as conclusions of law:
1. That Black was lawfully in possession of the tug as the
agent of Neafie & Levy, who were lawfully in control of her
under the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
2. That there was no liability on the part of -Black, ex contractv,or ex, delicto, to account to the libellant for the use or
earnings of the tug.
A decree was entered dismissing the libel, and, the interest
of Levy & Co. having been transferred to Baldwin, the latter
has appealed to this court.
The Code of Practice of Louisiana (Art. 269) provides for a
mandate of the court called a judicial sequestration, "ordering
the sheriff, in certain cases, to take into his possession and to

BALDWIN v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

keep a thing of which another person has the possession, until
after the decision of a suit, in order that it be delivered to
him who shall be adjudged entitled to have the property or
possession of that thing." By Art. 271, "all species ot property, real or personal," may be sequestered. By Art. 275, a
plaintiff in a suit "may obtain a sequestration in all cases
"where he has a lien or privilege on property." Art. 279 provides for the giving by the defendant of an obligation, with
surety, to the sheriff, to set aside the mandate of sequestration, the abligation to be in an amount equal to the value of
the property to -be left in the possession of the defendant;
and also enacts that whenever the defendant shall not execute
such obligation within ten days after the seizure of the property by the sheriff, it shall be .lawful for the plaintiff "to give
similar bond and security to the sheriff as that required by
law froni the defendant, and to take the property sequestered
into his Possession."
Articles 280 -and 281 are in these words: "Art. 280. The
secuRity thus' given by the defendant, when the property
sequestered consists in movables, shall b3 responsible that
he shall not send away the' same -out of the jurisdiction of
the court; that he shall not make an improper use of them;
and that he will faithfully present them, after definite judgment, in case he should be decreed to restore the same to the
plaintiff. Art. 281. As regards landed property, this security
is given to prevent the defendant, while in possession, from
wasting the property, and for the faithful restitution of the
fruits that he may have received sinco tho demand, or of their
value in the event of his being cast in the suit."
(1.) The proceedings of Neafie & Levy to obtain possession
of the tug were strictly in accordance with these provisions of
law. They being lawfully in possession and control of the
tug, under the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
Black, as their agent, was in lawful possession of her. But h6
was in possession only as such agent, and no cause of action
against him, in favor of Keyser, could arise, either in contract
or tort, in respect to any earnings of the tug or any compensation for or value of her use. Whatever claim there could
be, could be only against Neafie & Levy.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J.

(2.) The statute seems to make a distinction between movables and landed property, by prescribing in regard to the
former that no "improper pse" shall be made of them by the
party bonding them, thus implying that a proper use may be
made of them; and by providing in regard to landed property
that the value of its-fruits is to be restored. And this distinction is recognized by the Supreme Court of Louisiana; for, in
Segasie v. Piernas,26 La. Ann. 742, which was a suit against
the sureties on a release bond given by the defendant in sequestration, where the question arose whether, in a suit on the
bond, the sureties were "liable for the fruits and revenues of
movable property sequestered and released on bond," the
court, after citing Articles .279, 280, and 281, said: "From
these provisions of the law -we -conclude that the surety on
such bond is responsible only for the value of movables, when
not delivered according to the stipulati6ns of the bond, after
judgment in favor of the plaintiff. It is only where the prop-.
erty is land that the law fixes the responsibility for revenues."
There is no good reason why this rule should not equally apply
where the plaintiff gives what the statute designates as "simi- "
lar bond and security to the sheriff as that required by law
from the defendant," in order to be able "to take the property
sequestered into his possession."
(3.) If the suit were to be regarded as one against Neafie &
Levy, to be determined on an accounting with them, it clearly
appears that nothing is due to the libellant, when the deficiency in the net proceeds of the sale of the tug to pay the
mortgage debt and the other lien and privileged debts is taken
into account. This results from the provisions of Art. 2207,
et ,ey. of the Louisiana Civil Code, in regard to compensation.
Decree affmrned.
M .JUSTICE

BRADLEY,

dissenting:

I dissent from the judgment in this case. The defendant,
Black, is treated in all respects as if he had lawful possession
and use of the steam-tug in question; whereas, in my judgment, his possession and use were entirely without law or

BALDWIN v. BLACK.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J.

right. He could have no better right than his principals,
Neafle & Levy, and they had no right, pending the suit, but
that of holding the tug in their possession as a pledge for the
payment of their debt. They had a mortgage upon it, and
brought a suit to recover the debt due, and, uader Article 275
of the Code of Practice, they sued out a sequestration of the
tug. The defendant, Keyser, having failed to give a release
bond, Neafie & Levy gave such a bond under the act of 1842,
and the tug was delivered by the sheriff into their possession.
This did not give them any right to use it. A sequestration
is in the nature of a deposit, and is so treated in the old law,
as well as in the Civil Codes of France and Louisiana. See
Code iNap. Liv. III, Tit. XI, Du D(prt et du Sequestre; Louis.
Code, 1808, Book III, Tit. XI, Of Deposit and Sequestration,
Code 1825, Book III, Tit. XIII, ditto; (Euvres de Pothier,
Tom. VI, Du Contrat de DI6pt. One of the first rules relating to a deposit is, that the depositary cannot use the thing
deposited. Rev. Civ. Code, 1870, Art. 2940. A sequestration.
if gratuitous, is subject to all the rules which apply to a deposit.
Ib.Art. 2975. It is true that the Code of Practice declares
that the judicial sequestration "does not mean a judicial
deposit, because sequestration may exist together with the
right of administration, while mere deposit does not adiit it."
Art. 270. But this right of administration is no more than
the right (as well as the duty) of taking due care of the thing,
as a prudent father of a family would do, to prevent it from
deterioration. Some things would deteriorate without use.
A railroad or a plantation would go to destruction. But these
cases, and some others, are exceptional. As a general thing,
movables are different. Without the owner's consent they cannot lawfully be used for lucrative purposes by the person who
has the mere custody of them. When the plaintiff obtains possession, they become in his hands a pledge for the payment
of his debt. His lien or mortgage is converted into a pledge;
and a pledge does not give the pledgee the right to use the
thing pledged. The exceptions are stated by Lord Holt in
Coggs v. Be,'n arc, 2 Ld. Raym. 909, 916, 917, and summarized
in Addison on Contracts, 3d Am. Ed., N. Y. 1876, ยง 1090, where

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J.

it is said: "If the pawn be something that will be the worse
for wear, as clothes, the pawnee cafinot use it; but if it will
not be the worse for wear, as jewels, the pawlwnc may use
them ; but then it must be at his peril; for, if he is robbed in
wearing them, he is answerable. Also, if the pawn b of &Ach
a nature that the keeping is a charge to the pavnee, as if it
be a cow or horse, t -, pawnee may milk the cow, or ride the
horse; and this is in recompense of the keeping." The rule is

derived from tho civil law. The Institute says: "Theft is
committed nbt only when one man removes the property of
another to appropriate it to himself, but also generally, where
one man uses the property of another against the will of the
p)roprietor; thus, if a creditor uses a pledge, or a depositary
the deposit left with him, &c." Lib. IV, Tit. I, ยง \Ir. Mackeldey says of the pledgee: "Ie is liable for every wrong
(cwtPa); he dare not use the pledge without special permission,
.otherwiso lie is liable for casual damages resulting to it."
Ronan Law, Book IT, Title First, II, 4, ยง 441, Am. Ed. 1883,
(translated from 14th German Ed.).
The right of administration referred to in Art. 270 of the
C'ode of Practice is vested in the sheriff who takes possession
under the mandate of sequestration; but he cannot use sequestered inovables except to prevent their deterioration. See
Fitk,'u.v1ki v. 1l7itkonski, 16 La. Ann. 232; Owens v. Davis,
15 La. Ann. 22, 25; Parih v. Iozey, 17 La. 578; Avart v.
_Iing, 14 La. 62. And if lie deliver them to the plaintiff,
upon receiving the bond prescribed by the act of 1842, the latter
obtains no greater right. If the defendant bonds them, as he
may do, he may use them, because they are his own property;
but even he can make no improper use of them, so as to destroy
their value to answer the judgment thiat may be rendered
against him. Article 280 expressly provides that "the security
thus given by. the defendant, when the property consists in
movables, [or in slaves,] shall be responsible that he shall not
send away the same out of the jurisdiction of the court; that
he shall not make an improper use of them; and that he will
faithfully present them after definitive judgment, irl case he
should be decreed to restore the same to the plaintiff." This

BALDWIN v. BLACK.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J.

to the plaintiff
is entirely different from what is said in rera
The only right given him is "to
when.he bonds the good.
take the property sequestered into his possession." Code Pr.
279; Laws Louisiana, 1842, 204. Possession is all thai the
phntiff acquires pending suit. And the reason is very apparent: the movables do not belong to him; he only holds them
as a pledge, and the property in them remains in the defendant until they are sold under execution upon the judgment.
There can be no question that a steam-tug is such a movable as may be safely kept without use, or that a pledge of it
confers no right of use without a special agreement with the
owner.
If this is a correct view of the law, neither Neafie & Levy,
nor their agent or lessee, Black, acquired any right to use the
steam-tug, but were guilty of tort in using it without Keyser's.
consent. They became liable to him not only for all benefit
and advantage they derived from its use, but for all deterioration and wear and tear occurring by such use. They are to be
treated as tort-feasors, and not as lessees under Keyser.
fNow, it appears from the findings that Black realized over
$14,000 -from the use of the tug, either from her actual earnings in towing, or by virtue of the position she occupied, in his
name, in the squadron of the Towing Association; whilst his
actual expenses, including insurance, coal, commissiotis, an
everything he could- count up, amounted only to $4429. Yet.
Keyser received credit from these disinterested users of his
property for only $2600. It seems to me that this one-sided
settlement, made by the tort-feasors themselves, ought not to
receive the sanction of a court of justice. The plaintiff sues
as upon an implied contract, it is true; but that does not prevent his xecovering all that, in equity and justice, he ought to
recover. I think that the judgment should be teversed, and a
new trial directed.

