POMACE HOLDER CO v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

POJACE HOLDER COMPANY v. FERGUSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INEW YORK.
Argued November 19, 185.-Decided December 6,18S6.

The claim of letters-patent No. 187,100, granted to John Clark, February
6th, 1877, for an "improvement in cheese-formers for cider-presses,"
namely, "The.guide-frame D, in combination with an extended pomacerack, and a cloth to inclose a layer of pomace therein, substantially as
described," is invalid, because it did not require invention to use the
described guide-frame in connection with the racks and the cloths.
The racks and the cloths had been before used in bonnection, and-an enclosure was used with them, which enabled the- operator to make the pomace of uniform depth on each rack, and prevented the lateral spreading
of the pomace; and it required only ordinary mechanical skill and judgment to make'either the guide-frame or the rack of the desired size.

This was a bill in equity to restrain the infringement of
letters-patent. Answer denying the validity of the patent.
Decree below for respondent from which complainant appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.2I1.

"Falter . Ward for appellant.

D2'. Wi n. H. .King for appellee.
hR. JusicnE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York, for the
infringeiiient of letters-patent No. 1-87,100, granted to John
Clark, February 6th, 1877, for an "improvement in cheeseformers for cider-presses," on an application filed September
11th, 1876. The specification and drawings of the patent are
as follows:
"The object I have in view is, in laying up a 'cheese' for
the cider-press, where each layer is folded up in a cloth, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

secure uniformity of thickness of all the layers in the mass or
cheese, and thus secure uniform pressure on its entire area,
and to avoid all tendency to break the pomace frames or rack.

Fig. 2.

- -- -

i .....

..

.

"",i

"t

, .

"

.

.

.

"

I

A

To this end it consists in the employment of a guide-frame, in
combination with extended pomace-racks, as more fully hereinafter set forth. Figure 1 is a perspective view, showing the
manner of laying up a cheese in press. Fig. 2 is a cross-sec-

PQOACE',HQLDER CD. v. FERGUSON.Opimou of the Cotirt.

tion at w. In the drawing, A' represents the lower framework of a cider-press, on which is laid a bed, B. C is a
poinace-rack, which may be rigid, as shown, or flexible, as
described in letters-patent No. 148,034, issued to me Mvarch 3,
1874. On this rack is laid a guide-frame, D, whose bottom
girts'are not spaced far enough apart to extend the full length
of the rack on which they rest. A cloth, E, large enough to
envelop the layer, is then laid on the rack, inside the frame,
and opened out to receive the pomace, which is ' struck' level
with the girts of the frame, after which the cloth is folded
over the levelled pomace, and the frame is lifted off. The
next and succeeding racks are in like manner laid on the first,
and filled up, and a follower is placed on the upper one, when
the cheese is ready to press. Laid up in this way, the sevoral
layers are uniform in thickness, and the cheese, in mass, is
level on top, and offers a uniform resistance to the pressure,
over its entire area, thus assuring the expression of all the
juice and precluding-all danger of breaking the pomace-racks.
If the bed B be extended, a cheese may be built upon a board
while one is being pressed, and then be slid under the follower
when the first one is removed."
The claim is in these words: "The guide-frame D, in ccmbinattion with an extended pomace-rack, and a cloth to enclose
a layer of pomace therein, substantially as described.'"
The answer sets up, as defences, want of novelty, want of
patentability, and public use for more than two years before
the application for the patent. After a hearing on proofs, a
decree was made adjudging the patent to be invalid and dismissing the bill. The plaintiff has appealed.
The decision of the Circuit Court, 21 Blatchford, 376,
proceeded on these grounds: (1.) Cloths, and also ra6ks,
and also guide-frames, having each been used before, the,
aggregation of them, as described in the patent, was not a
valid combination. (2.) The use of the described guide-frame,
in connection with the racks and cloths, did not involve invention. (3.) The precise combination described in the patent
was in public use more than two years before the patent was.
applied for.
VOL. cxix-22

OCTOBIR. TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Without examining. any other question raised in the case,we axe of opinion that the patent must be held void on the
second ground abve mentioned. A rack on which to place
the pomace was old, and a cloth to cover the pomace lying on
the rack was old, the two being used in connection, and an enclosure was used with them, which enabled the operat~r to
,,make the pomace of unifohm depth on each rack, and pre.
vented the lateral spreading of the pomace. The only point
of the invention would seem to be the use of a guide-frame
sinaller, than the rack, or, in other words, the use of a rack
.larger than the guide-frame. There was no invention in making the guide-frame or the rack of the desired size. It required only ordinary mechanical, skill and judgment. Within
the recent cases in this court on the subject the patent must be
held void. 'in ton v. Hamilton, 104 U. S. 485; Hall v. _faeneale, 107 U. S. 90 ; Atlantic, Works v. Brady, 107 U. S.' 192,
200; SZawson v. Grand Street Railroad Co., 107 U. S. 649;
Kr g v. Galla , 109 U. S. 99 . Double-Ponted Tack Co. v.
Ewo Rivers AJfanUfacturing Co., 109 U. S. 117; Estey v. Bwurdett, 109 U. S. 633 ; Bussey v. Excelsior .AYa'nfacturing Co.,
110 U. S.. 131; Penneylva' ira Railroad Co. v. Locomotive
Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490; Phillips v. Detroit, Ill U. S. 604;
f.oMris v. itfcMillin, 112 U. S. 244; Hollister v. Benedict
Manufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 59; 75orysonr v. Boiselier,
114 U. S. 1, 11; Stephenson v. BrooHyn, Raiway Co., 114
U. S. 149; Yale Zock Jtanufacturing Co. v. Sargent, 117
U. S; 554; Gardnerv. Her, 118 U. S. 180.
Decree afflined.

