NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PAINE.

561

Syllabus.
knowledge of a forged bill of lading by Du Bois until October
31, 1881; and that it was not a fact that he had purposely
remained ignorant of the facts and circumstances attending
the protests of certain other drafts of Du Bois, to which bills
of lading were attached, which the bank had discounted. and
that he could only explain why no particular pains were
taken in the matter by stating what the usage of the bank
was in such matters. As the witness was about to state such
usage, the counsel of the plaintiffs interrupted him, and called
his attention to the question put, whether any special pains
had been taken, but the court said, let him state the usage as
to such papers. The witness then answered as follows: "No,
sir; I did not take any special pains, for the reason that it is
a matter of very common occurrence. A merchant will ship
a lot of grain to New York, the drafts come there, and for
some reason a commission merchant won't pay them; it may
be that he is not in a position to do it; it may be he thinks
they are drawn for too much, and'he refuses to pay; the
drafts come back, or are held under directions of the bank for
settlement or other arrangement. That is a very common
occurrence on shipments with bills of lading attached."
There could be no just objection to the court's receiving this
explanation.
We see nothing in the other exceptions which requires notice.
,udgmernt aflred.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PAINE.
ERROR TO T=E CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF AINNESOTA.
Argued December 13, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

In the courts of the United States, as legal defences only can be interposed
to legal actions, a defendant who has equitable grounds for relief
against a plaintiff must seek to enforce them by a separate suit in
equity; and this rule prevails in States where the law and practice per-

voL. cxX-36

OCTOBER TERM,' 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
mits the defeudant in an action at law to set up a legal as well as an
equitable d'efeuce.
When, under the law and practice in a State, a denial in one clause in an
answer ina suit begun in a court of the State and removed to a Federal
court is held to be qualified by an admission in another, and to excuse
the plaintiff from the necessity of proof of it, the same rule prevails in
the Fedczal court.
A mere equitable claim, which a court of equity may enforce, will not sustain an
tion at law for the recovery of land or of anything severed
from it.
The instruction requested by plaintiff was properly refused as it assumed
a knowledge by plaintiff which was not proved.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
3

'Ir. W. P. Clough for plaintiff in error.

-Mr.Eugene X. Wilson for defendant in error.
2orris also filed a brief for same.

Xr.31 F.

31R. JUsTICE FIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was brought by Paine, the plaintiff below, 'against
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company for taking and converting to its own use 6180 pine saw-logs, alleged to be his
property, and of the value of $10,442.
The defences set up are legal and equitable, a proceeding
permissible by the laws of Ainnesota, in which State the action
-was brought. The legal defences were two: first, a denial of
the ownership of the logs by the plaintiff, and of the conversion Gf them by the defendant, and of their value beyond
$7832-; second, that the logs were cut by the Knife Falls
Lumber Company. a corporation of the State, with the knowledge and consent of the plaintiff, and were by that company
sold and delivered to the defendant prior to the commncement of this action.
The equitable defence was substantially this: that in 1880
the defendant was the owner of the lands from which the
logs in controversy were cut, and that its land commissioner,
under whose charge the sales of its lands were conducted, and
his clerk, conspired with the plairtiff to defraud the company
by procuring a sale of the lands to be made, nominally to him,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PAINE.

563

Opinion of the Court.

but really for the benefit of the three, at a price representing
only a small fraction of the actual value of the property; that,
in execution'of this fraudulent purpose, the land commissioner
made out a contract of sale, in the form commonly used by
the company, promising for the price named to convey the
lands to the plaintiff; and that the company, upon receiving
in its preferred stock at par the amount of the consideration
mentioned, and being ignorant of the-facts and of the character and value of the lands, and relying upon its commissioner
to protect its interests, executed a conveyance of the lands in
the usual form to the plaintiff, and placed it in the hands of
the commissioner for delivery to him; that the lands thus
sold were pine timber lands, and the company was ignorant
of their character and value until April, 1881, when it repudiated and disaffirmed the sale, and filed a bill in the Circuit,
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota for
its annulment, and the reconveyance to it of the lands, offering
at the same time to return to the plaintiff the cost of the preferred stock received, which bill is now pending and andetermined.
The relief prayed in the answer was: first, that the plaintiff
take nothing by his action; second, that the alleged purchase'
of the lands in the name of Paine be adjudge d void as against
the defendant; third, that an account be taken of the cost of
the shares of preferred stock received in payment for the lands,'
and that on the repayment by the company of such cost, the
plaintiff be decreed to release and reconvey the lands to thtcompany.
The plaintiff filed a replication, denying the allegations
of
deequitable
in
the
fraud and fraudulent combination stated
fence, and any license or assent by him to the lumber company to cut the logs.
The case was then removed, on application Qf the defendant,
,from the state court to the Circuit Court of the United States.
In that court the equitable defence could not be made available. In the courts of the United States, to legal actions legal
defences only can be interposed. If the defendant have equitable grounds, for relief against the plaintiff, he must seek to

•56+

OCTOBER. TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

enforce them by a separate suit in equity. If his equitable
grounds are deemed sufficient, he may thus stay the further
prosecution of the action at law, or be furnished with matter
which may be set up as a legal defence to it. Upon the
removal, therefore, of the action to the Circuit Court, the
equitable defence could not be considered. It would have
been entirely proper for the defendant to have amended his
answer by striking out that portion embracing this defence.
But he did not take that course, and the plaintiff relied upon
its allegations as evidence. If the pleadings are construed as
in the state court, there %iasan admission by them of an important fact in the case; namely, of title by a deed from the
former owner of the lands. in the state courts, where an
answer sets up several distinct defences, a denial in one is held
to be qualified by an admission in another. Thus, in .De;-y &
Day v. Gallop, 5 Minn. 119, where the action was replevin for
unlawfully taking the plaintiff's goods, and the answer contained two defences: 1st, a general denial of the allegations of
the complaint; and, 2d, a justification of the taking under a
levy upon execution; it was heldthat the answer admitted
the taking, for the purposes of the trial, and to that extent
the second defence affected the first. In Scott v. .Kng, 7 Minn,
494, the same doctrine was declared, the court holding that a
general denial in one defence, inconsistent with special matter
alleged in a second defence, is to be considered as modified
thereby. See also Zimmermanw v. Iamb, 7 Minn. 421. The
admission of the execution of a deed by the former owner,
and thus of title in the plaintiff, if it could be used, obviated
-the want of other proof on that point. In order that the
plaintiff might recover, it devolved on him to prove not merely
the value of the logs taken, but that he owned them, or was
entitled to their possession. It is not contended that he
acquired any title to them except as annexed to the lands
from which they were cut. Standing timber is a part of the
realty and goes with its title or right of possession. When
severed from the soil its character as realty is changed; it has
become personalty, but the title to it continues as before.
The right, therefore, to recover for what is severed from the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. PAINE.

565

Opinion of the Couit.

freehold depends upon the right to the freehold itself. If the
plaintiff is in possession, he- is presumed to be lawfully so,'
having the right of possession, and, therefore, entitled to what
is severed. If he is out of possession, he must show a title to
the land, or right to its possession. A mere equitable claim,
which a court of equity may enforce, will not sustain an action at law for the recovery of the land or anything severed
from it. .fallecko v. Xixei, 16 Cal. 574; fater v. Ttinity
Ohu ck, 3 S. & R. 509 ; Harlan v. Hartla, 15 Penn. St. 507;
. C. 53 Am. Dec. 612.
In the case at bar, no proof was offered by the plaintiff of
his title to the land, from which the logs in controversy were
cut, or of his ownership in any other way, he relying upon
the admission to tlhat effect contained in the paragraph of the'
answer setting up the equitable defence. This defence was
not, as already stated, available in the action at law after the
removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the United States,
and the answer might have been there amended by striking it
out; but so long as it remained a part of the pleadings, the
fact admitted by- it in the state court must be considered as
still admitted in the Federal court. No hardship can follow
from this rule, for the defendant, by amending his answer
after the removal of the cause, can always avoid this result;
in many cases it will obviate the inconvenience of making
proof of a fact within the knowledge of the parties.
The objection, that there was no evidence of a delivery of
the deed, which the answer alleges was execute4 and placed
in the. hands of the land commissioner of the railroad company for that purpose, is not well taken. It will be presumed,
after the lapse of months, as in the present case, that thedelivery was made as directed; if not, it was for the defendant to show it -the proof, if the fact were so, being in its
power. The prayer of the special defence ig for a cancellation of the contract of sale, and a 'i'eeoveyance of the land to
the defendants.
It only remains to consider the refusal of the court to give
the instruction requested with reference to the parol license
from the railroad cqmpany, at the time the owner of the

