NEW ORLEANS v; HOUSTON.
Counsel f6r Appellants.

$446,849; 2. The former sum was not to be paid until Le Roy
was reimbursed the entire amount dub and to become due to
him on account of principal, interest, advances, and expenses.

That the sales of the trust property fell short of meeting these
latter demands by a large amount, is clearly established by
the record of the suit in which the accounts of the trustee

were audited and settled, and by other evidence in this cause.
Upon the whole case we think the decree was right, and it is
Affir med.

NEW ORLEANS v. HOUSTON1.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued Navember 17, 18, ISSO. -Deetded

December 6,18S6.

The service of process in this case having been upon the mayor of New
Orleans, and the city having appeared and answered, the municipality is
properly in court.
The effiect 6f article 167 of the Constitution of Louisiana of 1879 is to revive
the charter of the Louisiana State Lottery Company of 1868, except as to
the clause conferring upon it the exclusive privilege of establishing a lottery and dealing in lottery tickets, notwithstanding its repeal in 1879;
and also to recognize the charter thus mudified as a contract binding on
the State for the period therein specified.
Stone v. Misqssippi, 101 U. S. 814, distinguished.
A grant in the Constitution of a State of a privilege to a corporation is not
subject to repeal or change by the legislature of the State.
An assessment of a tax upon the shares of shareholders in a corporation
appearing upon the boks of the company, which the company is required
to pay Irrespective of any dividends or profits payable to the shareholdei,
out of.which it might repay itself, is substantially a tax upon the corporation itself.
United States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, and National Bank v. Commonwcealth, 9 Wall. 353, distinguished.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
IMP. Walter H. Rogers and 3Pfr. T ,ard Gi'rley, Tr., for.appellants.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. -John A. Campbell for appellees.
MR. JusTiCE

MATTrriws delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 27th of January, 1881, the Louisiana State Lottery
Company, alleging itself to be'a corporation under the laws of
the State of Louisiana, filed its bill in chancery against the
City of New Orleans and the tax assessors for the Parish of
Orleans, the object and prayer of which were to obtain a perpetual injunction restraining the defendants from the assessment and collection of certain taxes about to be enforced
against the complainant by the seizure and sale of its property. On final hearing there was a decree in conformity with
the prayer of the bill, from which the defendants below prosecute the present appeal.
The allegations of the bill are in substance, that by an act
of the Legislature of the State of Louisiana, passed in 1868,
being Act No. 25 of that year, the Louisiana State Lottery
Company was established and organized as a corporation: thht, among other immunities and franchises granted by saidact, it was provided in article 5 that the company "shall pay,
the State of Louisiana the sum of forty thousand dollars per
annum, which sum shall be payable quarterly in advance, from
and after the 1st day of January, 1869, to the State Auditor,
who shall deposit the same in the treasury of the State, and
which shall be credited to the educational fund; and said corporation shall be exempt from all other taxes and licenses of
any ind whatever from the State, parish, or municipal authorities" :- that in the year 1871 legal proceedings were instituted
by the City of New Orleans against the said company, in the
Superior District Court for the Parish of Orleans, for the purpose of enforcing on behalf of said city certain taxes alleged to
have been assessed against it, notwithstanding said exemption
contained in its charter, the City of New Orleans claiming
therein that said exemption was void :-that such proceedings
were had thereon that on final hearing in the Supreme Court
of Louisiana a judgment was rendered in favor of the lottery
company, declaring said exemption to be valid and the said

NEW ORLEANS v. HOUSTON.
Opinion 61 the Court.

taxes illegal - that the. said company claims that the provision
in its said charter exempting it from taxes as aforesaid beyond
the sum of $40,000, payable annually, is a contract between
the-State of Louisiana and itself, and has been expressly confirmed and recognized as such by the present Constitution of
the State of Louisiana, adopted in 1879, in article 167, all the
provisions of which, it is alleged in the bill, the complainants
have complied with.
The bill further alleges that, notwithstanding the provisions
of the said charter, and in defiance of the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, and contrary to the Constitution
of the State, the defendants "are about to levy and assess a tax
upon the capital stock and other property of your orator, and
the other defendants hereinbefore named have threatened and
are about to take proceedings against your orator for the collection of said illegal tax, which is illegal because prohibited
by the Constitution of th& -United States as violative of the
said contract between your orator and the State of Louisiana";
that the said officers of the State pretended to justify their
action under the provisions of Act No. 77 of the Legislature of
Louisiana of 1880, which the complainant avers to be null 'and
void and of no effect, so far as it may be construed to authorize the proceedings of the defendants. The bill alleges that the
complainant has always promptly paid the amount called for
by its charter to the State Treasurer, and in advance, ald owes
nothing to the State on that account; and accordingly prays
for an injunction to restrain the defendants from further
attempts to enforce the collection of the tax complained of.
To this bill a joint and several answer was filed by all of
the defendants. That answer admits the incorporation of the
Louisiana State Lottery Company, as alleged in the bill, and
that its charter constitutes a valid contract between the State
of Louisiana and the company. It admits that the defendants
are about to levy a tax upon the capital stock and upon other
property of the complainant, but denies that such proceedings
are illegal; and claims that Act No. 77 of the year 1880,
passed by the Louisiana Legislature, is in no respect null and
void.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

On final hearing a decree was passed wherein "the court
decrees and declares that the-act of the Legislature (No. 77 of
the acts of .1880), so far as it imposes a tax upon the capital
stock of the complainant, or upon the shares of the stock held
by the shareholders of the complainant, is in conflict with
article 6, 8 1, of complainant!,s charter, found in Act No.
25 of the a'-ts of 1868, and therefore impairs the obligation of
a contract and is void. The court further decrees and declares,
that, under the provisions of said charter as adopted as a c64tract'by the Constitution of 1879, the capital of the complainaaq both in the aggregate and as held by its sharehbldef, is
exempted from all taxation of every kind, excepting the an-'
nual payment of forty thousand dollars. The. court further
decrees that the defendants herein be enjoined and restrained
in manner and form. and to the extent prayed for in the bill
of complaint herein."
- It is objected to this decree, in the first place, on behalf of
the' City of New Orleans, that that municipality was not
properly in court by due service of process, but the objection
does not seem to be well founded in fact. There was service
of process upon the mayor, which is conceded to be the statutory method of serving process in such'cases, and the city actually appeared by attorney and answered.
The principal question, however, arises upon the terms of
article 167 of the Constitution of the State of 1879. That
clause is as follows: "The General Assembly shall have authority to grant lottery charteri or privileges; piovlded each
charter or'privilege shall pay not less than forty thousand dollars per annum in mon6y into the treasury of the State; and
provided further,that all charters shall cease and expire on
the first of .January, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, from
which time all lotteries are prohibited in the State. The
forty thousand dollars per aninum now provided by law to be
paid 'by the Louisiana State -Lottery Company, according to
the provisions of its charter granted iii the year .868, shall
belong to the Charity lospitpIdof New Orleans, and the charter of said company is recognized aaa 6ntract binding on the
State for the period thecair, spwified, bxc~t its monopoly

NEW ORLEANS v. HOUSTON.
Opiuion 45f the Court.

clause, which is hereby, abrogated; and all laws contrary to
the provisions of this article are hereby declared null and void;
.ptovidedsaid company shall file a written renunciation of all
its monopoly features in the office of the Secretary of State
within sixty days after the ratification of this Constitution."
It appears that by'an act of the Legislature of Louisiana.,
which took effect on the 31st of March, 1879, Act No. 25 of
the year 1868, which .incorporated and established the Louisiana State Lottery Company, and all other laws on the same
subject-matter, were repealed, and the Louisiana State Lottery
Company was thereby abolished and prohibited from drawing
any and all lotteries or selling lottery tickets, either in its corporate capacity, or through its officers, members, stockholders,
or agents, either directly or indirectly. That act also made it
a penal offence to draw any lottery or have any connection or
interest in or with the drawing of any lottery in the State, or
to sell or offer to sell any lottery tickets, or to set up or promote any lottery in the State. This statute took effect before
the adoption of the. Constitution of 1879, and was in force
when the latter went into operation in December, 1879.
It is now contended, on the part of the appellants, that
article 167 of the Constitution of the State does not have the
effect to revive the original charter of the Louisiana State.
Lottery Company as though ft had never been repealed, but
revives it only so far as under that clause the General Assembly was authorized to grant, lottery charters or privileges in
the future; that -this constitutional authority to grant new
lottery charters or privileges does not warrant the Legislature.
in stipulating, by way of contract, that the minimum license
tax of $40,000 per annum shall be in lieu of all other taxes
upon the property, and operate to exempt the company, so far
as taxation is concerned, from the effect of other clauses of
the Constitution; that, by other provisions of the Constitu-.
tion, particularly article 207, no property can be exempt from
taxation except public property, places of religious worship or
burial, charitable institutions, buildings and property used
exclusively for colleges and other school purposes, real and
personal estate of public libraries, household property to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

value of $500, and for the period of ten years from the adop-

tion of the Constitution the capital, machinery, and other
property employed in.certain enumerated manufactories, w ,ere-in not less than five hands are employed in any one factory.
It is argued that the whole proper effect to be given to the
provisions of article 167 of the Constitution is to secure to the
Loisiana State Lottery Company such a charter as the General Assemhly was aufhorized -thereby to graht to any other
lottery vompany, and to modify it as though it had been
actually granted by the General Assembly undt e that clause.
This intent is inferred from the language of the Constitution, which specifically forbids the future existence of the
"monopoly clause" of the chai'er of the company, and requires it to file a written renunciation of this feature with the
Secretary of State within sixty days after the ratification of
the Constitution; the object in view being, as it is contended,
obviously, to place the Louisiana State Lottery Company
under its charter as granted in tho year 1868, but subject to
and modified by the provisions of the Constitution of 1879, on
an equal footing merely with other and new
lottery compani6s, to which by the terms of the Constitution the General
Assembly was authorized to grant charters; and the conclusion deduced is, that, as under that Constitution the General
Assembly had no authority to grant a charter for a lottery
company which should contain the exemption relied upon as the
ground of relief in the present suit, the exemption so relied on
was repealed by the Constitution.
The argument seems to be, that if the Louisiana State
Lottery Company is exempt from taxatioh beyond the annual
sum of $40,000, and other companies to be chartered under
the Constitution of 1879 are not and cannot be, the monopoly
secured to the former by its original charter is perpetuated
and not abrogated, as it was the express purpose of the Constitution to accomplish, for the reason that such a discrimination effectually and in advance prevents all possible competition.
The charter of the Louisiana State Lottery Company, being
Act No. 25 of the year 1868, establishes a corporation for the

NEW ORLEANS v. IiOUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

.

purpose of carrying on the business of a lottery, with a capital
stock of $1,000,000. By the 4th section of the 8th article it
was provided that the corporation should continue during the
term of twenty five years from January 1, 1869, for whish
time, it was added, it "shall have the sole and exclusive privilege of establishing and authorizing a lottery or series of lotteries, and selling and disposing of lottery tickets, policy combination devices, and certificates and fractional parts thereof."
And by § 5 of the same article it was provided "that the said
corporation shall also have the sole right and privilege, during
the whole term of its existence as hereinbefore provided for,
to dispose of by lottery, or series of lotteries, any lands, improved or unimproved, which said corporation may become
possessed of by purchase or otherwise."
The exclusive right conferred by these provisions became
the subject of judicial consideration by the Suprem6 Court of
Louisiana in the case of -ouisiana Statv Lottery Co. v. ?iehoux,
decided in November, 1871, and reported in 23 La. Anif. 743.
By the decision in that case the exclusive right claimed by the
Louisiana State Lottery Company to establish lotteries and to
sell lottery tickets in the State, was adjudged in its fa Vor by
an injunction restraining the defendants from vending lottery
tickets of other companies, in violation of the exclusive right
claimed by the plaintiffs. The validity of the exemption of
the lottery company from taxation in excess of the annual
sum of $40,000, as stipulated in article 5, § 1, of its charter,
was upheld by a decision of the same court in the case of
.Lo,isian S~tate Zottery Co. v..3New Orleans, 21 La. Ann. 86.
The exemption was attacked in that case on the ground that'
it was in violation of the State Constitution then in force, because it infringed the principle of equality and uniformity in
the matter of imposing taxes, the Legislature being prohibited
from exempting from taxation any species of property except
such as was actually used for charitable, educational, or religious purposes, and for the additional reason that it, granted
certain rights to the plaintiff which were denied to other
citizens of the State. In reference to these objections the
Supreme Court of Louisiana said: "It may be said that the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

power of a State Legislature to impose what is known as a
commutation tax is a well recognized power, not only in our
own jurisprudence, but generally. 11 Ann. 33; 9 Wall. 50;
17 Ill. 291; 30 Ind. 1406. In the act under consideration the
Legislature has deemed it advisable to grant to the lottery
company an exemption from all other taxation except that of
paying $40,000 per annum to the State for public education.
On the commutation principle, we think the act is not violative of the Constitution. It is not clear that the city has any
ground to object to this exemption by the State of the company it claims the right to require the payment of licenses
from, the city being a municipal corporation and deriving its
right to levy licenses from the State, and in this instance the
right is withheld." The City of New Orleans was accordingly
enjoined from further attempts to collect from the lottery
company any municipal taxes or licenses.
It was in view of these decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State, that the present Constitution was framed and
adopted. Article 167 of that instrument expressly recognizes
the charter of the Louisiana State Lottery Company, as granted
in the year 1868, as existing with the force both of law and of
contract, with the exceptions mentioned. It specifies that
"the $40,000 per annum now provid(edZ by law to be paid by
the Louisiana State Lottery Company, according to the provisions of its charter, gTanted in the year 1868, shall belong to
the Charity Hospital of New Orleans;" but the only law
which, provided for the payment of $4Q,000 per annum was the
charter of.the compafly, and this clause diverts it from the
educational fund, to which it had been appropriated by the
terms of the charter, to the uses of the Charity Hospital of
New Orleans. Tbl.. article of the Constitution then proceeds
to say: "And the charter of said company is recognized as a
conteat binding on the State for the period therein specified,
except its monopoly clause,' which is hereby abrogated." The
monopoly clause hereby. excepted and abrogated can be no
other than that already referred to as contained in §§ 4 and 5
of article 8, by which was conferred upon the corporation the
sole and exclumive privilege of establishing and authorizing a

NEW ORLEANS v. HOUSTON.

273

Opinion of the Court.

lottery or series of lotteries, and selling and disposing of lottery tickets, &c. These are the only clauses in the charter
granting any exclusive rights, and, therefore, the only ones
which can be properly styled monopoly clauses.
-The constitutional article then proceeds to say that "1all laws
contrary to the provisions of this article are hereby declared null
and void." This clause operates as a repeal of so much of Act
No. 44, approved March 27, 1879, as repeals the charter of the
Louisiana State Lottery Company, and prohibits it from drawing lotteries and selling lottery tickets. That it did operate to
that extent, but no further, was the express decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the case of Carcass v. Judge of
_First Distpict Court, 32 La. Ann. 719. It was held in that
case that those portions of Act No. 44 which define the of.fences of drawing lotteries and selling lottery tipkets, and providing punishment therefor, by all persons other than the
Louisiana State Lottery Company, Were not affected by the
Constitution of 1879. The court in its opinion says: "Construing the act of 1879 and the article of the Constitution
together, so as to give full effect to each and all the parts of
both, and blending them together, we consider that the law of
Louisiana on the subject of the vending of lottery tickets simply is: The sale of lottery tickets in this State is absolutely
prohibited unless by organizations chartered by the State,
which, befor'e dealing in that kind of speculation; shall have
paid an annual license of not less than forty thousand dollars
to the State. There shall exist no monopoly for the sale of.
such tickets or doing of such business. Individuals violating
the law by selling lottery tickets or dealing in the lottery business, 'without having _previously obtained a chdrter and paid
the required license in the manner provided by law, shall be
p,'osecuted andpunished &yfine and ilaprisonment. The Louisiana State Lottery Company, previously in existence, shall
continue its operations on abdicating all its pretensions to a
monopoly, and on complying with the requirements touchingthe payment of the license."
The effect, therefore, of article 167 of the Constitution of'
Louisiana is to revive the charter of the Louisiana State
VOL. CxIx-18

OCTOBER TERM,; 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Lottery Company granted in the. year 1868, notwithstanding
its repeal by Act INo. 44 of thd year 1879, except as to the
clause which confers upon it the exclusive privilege of establishing a lottery and dealing in lottery tickets, and to recognize
the charter thus modified as a contract binding on the State
for the period therein specified. This renews and establishes
the obligation of the corporation under § 1, article 5 of its
charter, to pay to the State the annual sum of 040,000; in
consileratlon of which it is declared to be "exempt from all
other taxes and licenses of any kind whatever, whether from
State, parish, or municipal authorities."
In answer to the argument of counsel that this places the
Louisiana State Lottery Company, under the Constitution of
1879, on a better footing than any other lottery company
chartered by the General Assembly thereafter, for the reason
that no sudh exemption can be granted to the latter, it is
sufficient to say, that, if this consequence be admitted, the
monopoly, which is supposed to be thus created in favor of
the Louisiana State Lottery Company, is not one derived
under any clause of its charter as granted in the year 1868,
but is one created by the Constitution itself, although, merely
by way of inference, by this mode of interpretation.
it is further contended, however, on the part of the appellants, that if the charter of the Louisiana State Lottery
Company is recognized as a contract by article 167 of the Constitution, it is not such a contract as is protected by the Constitution of the United States against future legislation by the
State impairing its obligation, for the reason that its subjectmatt-r is emnbraced within the scope of the police power of
the State, the exercise of which cannot be effectually bound
by contract. Aud thus the case is thought to be brought
within the principle established by this court in the case of
Stonev. Mhid
,ijfi, 101 U.-S. 814, 820. In its opinion in
that cese the court said: "The contracts which the Constitution protects are those that relate to property rights, not governmental. It is not-always ehsy to tell on which side of the
line which separates governmental from property rights a particular case is to be put, but in respect to lotteries there can

NEW ORLEANS v. HOUSTON.
Opinion- of the Court.

be no difficulty. They are not, in the legal acceptation, of
the term, rnalc in se, but, as we have just seqn, may properly
be made rnalo prodibt..
.
Certainly the right to suppress them is governmental, to be exercised at all times by
those in power at their discretion. Any one, therefore, who
accepts a lottery charter does so with the implied understanding that the people in their sovereign capacity, and through
their properly constituted agencies, may resume it at any time
when the public good shall require, whether it be paid for or
not. All that one can get by such a charter is a suspension
of certain governmental rights in his favor, subject to withdrawal at will. He has in legal effect nothing more than a
license to enjoy the privilege, on the terms named, for the
specified time, unless it be sooner abrogated by the sovereign
power of the State. It is a permit, good as against existing
laws, but subject to future legislative and constitutional control or withdrawal."
This language must be construed in reference to the circumstances of the case in respect to which it was used. That was
a case of an act of the Legislature of Mississippi granting a
charter to a lottery company abrogated by a provision in the
Constitution of the State subsequently adopted. The converse is the present ease. The grant of the charter to the
Louisiana State Lottery Company is contained in the Constitution, and the question is whether the Legislature, acting
under that Constitution, can contravene it. That is a question which needs no answer; its statement is sufficient. It is
undoubtedly true that no rights of contract are or can be
vested under this constitutional provision which a subsequent
Constitution might not destroy without impairi-ng the obliga
tion of a contract, within the sense of the Consitution of tho
United States, for the reason assigned in the case of Stone T.
l;&.s,:
;i. 3ut an ordinary act -_f legislation cannot hav3
that effect, because the constitutional provision has withdrawn
from the scope of the police power of the State, to be exercised by the General Asseinbly, the subject-matter of the
granting of lottery charters, so far as the Louisiana State Lottery Company is concerned, and any act of the Legisleture

'OCTOBER TERMT, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

contrary to this prohibition is upon amiliar principles null
and void. The subject is not within the jurisdiction of the
police power of the State, as it is permitted to be exercised by
the Legislature under the Constitution of the State.
It is next contended, on the part'of the appellants, that the
exemption contained in the charter of the Louisiana State Lottery Company, as confirmed by the Constitution of the State,
does not extend further than those taxes and licenses in excess
of the annual sum of $40,000, which may be assessed upon the
corporation itself; and it is said that the tax sought to be levied, and the acsessment of which has been enjoined in the present case, is not a tax upon the corporation itself, but upon the
shareholders on account of their shares in its capital stock
held by them as individuals. The facts in regard to the character of the tax, and the mode of its assessment, do not clearly
appear from the pleadings. In the bill it is alleged that the
defendants "are about to levy and assess a tax upon the capital stock and other property of your orator," and "are about
to take proceedings against your orator for the collection of
said alleged tax . . . by serving a notike.to that effect, to
seize and sell the property rights and credits of your orator,"
and that these acts are done under the pretended authority of
"the provisions of Act No. 77 of the Legislature of Louisiana
of 1880, which said law," it is averi'ed, "is null and void and of
no effect, so far as your orator is concerned, inasmuch as by
authorizing the levy of a tax upon the property of your orator,
other than that provided for in the. charter of your orator as
aforesaid, said act violates the contract between your orator
and the State of Louisiana by requiring of your orator othef
taxes than those provided for in said charter, and is repuglant,
to paragraph 2, section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of
the United States."
In the answer the defendants "admit that, at the time of
the issuance of the preliminary injunction herein, the State
assessors for the Parish of Orleans were about to levy a tax
upon the capital stock of the complainant, and upon other of
complainant's property;" and the State tax collector admits
that he had served notice upon the company, that he was

NEW ORLEANS v. HOUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

about "to seize and sell the property rights and credits of comlJlainant, and to take the legl measures to enforce the collection of the tax complained of." It is also admitted, on the
part of the city of New Orleans, that it intended to compel
payment of the taxes assessed as aforesaid on' its behalf,.and
Act No. 77 of the Legislature of Louisiana of 1880 is set up as
a justification. Section 48 of that act is as follkws: "That no
assessment shall hereafter be made under that name, as heretofore, of the capital stock of any national bank, State bank,
banking company, banking firm, or banking association, or of
any corporation, compaily, firm, or association, whose capital
stock is represented by shares, but the actual shares shall be
assessed to the shareholders who appear as such upon the
books, regardless of any transfer not registered or entered
upon, the books; and it shall be the duty of the president, or
other proper officer, to furnish to the tax collector a complete
list of those who are borne upon the books as shareholders;
and all the taxes so assessed shall be paid by the bank, company, firm, association, or corporation, which shall be entitled
to collect the amounts from the shareholders or their transferees. All property owned by the bank, company, firm, association, or corporation, which is taxable under sections one and
three, of this act, shall be assessed directly to the bank, company, firm, association, or corporation, and the pro rata of
suci direct property taxes, and of. all exempt property, proportioned to each share of capital stock, shall be deducted from
the amount of taxes assessed to that share under this section.
.

.

.

'Such

assessments shall be made where the bank, etc.,

is located, and not elsewhere, whether the shareholders reside
there or not.

"

It is well settled by the decisions of this court that the property of shareholders in their shares, and the property of the
corporation in its capital stock, are distinct property interests,
and, where that is the legislative intent clearly expressed, that
both may be taxed. 'Fan. Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573;
The Delaware IRailb'oad Tax, 18 Wall. 206; Farringto. v.
Tenne.osee, 95 U. S. 679.
In Teinessee v. WViititoth, 117 U. S. 129, 136; the Chief

-OCTOBER TERM, "1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice delivering the opinion of the court, said: "In corpora.tions four. elements of taxable value are sometimes 'found:
1, franchises ; 2, capital stock in the hands of the corporation;
-3, corporate property; and, 4, shares of the capital stock in the
hands of the individual stockholders. Each of these is, under
some circumstances, an appropriate subject of taxation; and it
is no doubt within the power of a State, when not restrained by
constitutional limitations, to assess taxes upon them in a way to
subject the corporation or the stockholders to double taxation.
Double taxation is, however, never to be presumed. Justice
requires .that the burdens of governnient shall, as far as is
practicable, be laid equally on all, and if property is taxed
once in one way, it would ordinarily be wrong to fax it again
in another way, when the burden of- both taxes falls on the
same person. Sometimes tax. laws have that effect; but if
they do, it is because the legislature .has unmistakably so
enacted. All presumptions are against such an imposition."
• But the question of legislative intent is always open upon
the language of the exemption. In the present case the corporation is exempted by its charter from all other taxes and
licenses of any kind whatever in excess of the sum of $40,000
per annum, and yet by Act No. 77, though the assessment is
not to be made upon its capital stock, but upon the shares
of shareholders appearing upon its books, nevertheless, the tax
so assessed is to be paid by the company, although it is entitled
to collect the amount so paid from the shareholder on whose
account it is payable; but this payment by the company is to
be made irrespective of any dividends or profits payable to the
shareholder out of which it might be repaid. That it is substantially a tax upon the corporation itself, is unequivocally
shown by the subsequent clause, which authorizes a deduction
from the amount of taxes assessed to each share of its proportion of the direct property taxes paid by the company as
such under § 1 and 3, and of all exempt property belonging
,ut as all the property of the Louisiana
to the corporation.
State Lottery Company is exempt from taxes after payment
of the annual sum of $40,000, nothing remains to be charged
as a tax upon the shareholder as distinct from the corporation

NEW' ORLEANS v. IHOUSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

under the provisions of this sectioa. Indeed, it is quite appar'eiit from the language of the whole section, that; while nominally the taxes authorized are not to be assessed upon the
capital stock of the corporation in the aggregate and as its
pIfperty, yet in substance that is its effect. The taxes are
assessed upon, the actual shares as registered in the names of
individual shareholders, but are to be paid by the corporation,
so that while the form and mode of taxation is changed, its
substance remains as though assessed against the corporation
by name.

The case differs altogether from that of United States v.
R2ailroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, in which it was held that the tax
provided for in the 122d section.of the Internal Revenue Act
of 1864, as amended, requiring railroad and other corporations
to pay a tax upon interest and dividends payable by them,
with the right to deduct the same from the-amounts otherwise
"due to creditors and stockholders, was a tax upon the latter
and not upon the corporation, because the corporation was
mado use of merely as a convenient means of collecting the
tax. And it cannot be considered as ultimately a tax upon
the shares, as the property of the shareholders, within the
principle of the decision in .Vat;anal Bank v. Cominoawealth,
9 Wall. 353. There the act of Congress expressly distinguished between the taxing of the bank and the taxing of its
shareholders on account of their shares, and, as was held in
that case, left it open to the State to collect the tax levied
on the shares by imposing the duty of collecting it upon thle
corporation. That, we think, is prohibited in this case by the
'terms of the contract contained in the charter, which exempts
the corporation from the payment of all taxes h,-hatever in
excess of the specified annual sum; whether levied on it or to
be paid by it on any account whatever. A tax such as that
sought to be imposed upon the company by the appellees, is a
tax upon the corporation within the .meanifig or the prohibition of its charter, because it is compelled to become surety
for taxes nominally imposed upon its stockholders, and is made
-liable primarily for their payment; a payment which, in the.
first instance, must be made out of the corporate property,

