OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

without other recourse than an action against individual stockholders to recover the amounts advanced on their account.
The fair inference is that the taxafion of the Louisiana

State Lottery Company is not within the purview of ยง 48 of
Act No. T7 of the year 1880, and that it was not within the
intention of the Legislature, as expressed in that act, to impose
upon the company any other taxes than those provided for in
its own charter; but, if otherwise, Act No. '77 is void, as a law

impairing the obligation of a contract.
We find no error in the decree of the Circuit Court, and it is
therefore
-ffirmed.

TT ATLTON v.

VICKSBURG, SREVEPORT

& PA-

CIFIC RAILROAD.
EREOB TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Argued November 10, 1886.-Decided December 6, 1886.

Whenever the exercise of a right, conferred by law for the benefit of the
public, is attended with temporary inconvenience to private parties, in
common with the public in general, they are not entitled to damages
therefor.
A railroad company was authorized by the Legislature of Louisiana to construct a railroad across that State, and as part of such road to construct
-necessary bridges for crossing navigable streams. The act made no provision for the form or character of such structures. A bridge across a
navigable stream was constructed with a draw. In process of time it
became decayed, and defendant in error, having succeeded to the rights
of the company, employed a contractor to construct a new bridge in its
place, the work to be done at a time of the year when it would least obstruct navigation. The contractor complied with his contract as to the
time; but owing to unusual rains the river continued navigable, and the
work was unavoidably prolonged, thereby obstructing its navigation and
preventing the vessels of plaintiff in error from passing beyond the bridge.
Held: That this was a case of ddrnumr absque injuria.
Escanaba Co.v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, and Cardwell v. American Bridge Co.,
113 U. S. 205, affirmed and applied.

The case it. stated in the opinion of the court. The.case in
the court belo i, will be found reported in 34 La. Ann. 973.

HAIILTON v. VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD.

281

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John T. Ludeing, for plaintiff in error, submitted on

his brief, citing ittle -Rock, &c., Railroad v. Brooks, 39 Arkansas, 403, and cases there cited; Ingraham v. Police Jury,
20 La. Ann. 226; Winnipeseogee Lake Co. v. Young, 40 N. H.
420; Atwater v. Schenek, 9 Wis. 160 ; The Peterhof, Blatchford, Prize Cases, 463; Indianapolis& CincinnatiRailroad v.
Stephens, 28 Ind. 429;
-rightv. Hawkinq, 28 Texas, 452;
Areaderhouser v. State, 28 Ind. 257; Allcjuanue v. Uarmilchael,
3 Iowa., 1; Wood v. Fowler, 26 Kansas, 682; The DanielBall,
10 Wall. 557; T-illarnet Iron, Bridge v. tatch, 19 Fed. Rep.
347; (ardwell v. American Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205.
31r. George Hoadly, Jr., (Mr. George Hoadly, .i1b'. Edgar
H. Johnson, and Mr. Edward 6olston,were on the brief,) cited
Willso* v. Blaekbirl Creek Afarsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilan v.
Piladecphia,3 Wall. 713; Pound v. Turck, 95 1U. S. 459;
Escanaba Co. v. Mcago, 107 U. S. 678; Cardwell v. Anerican.Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205.
MR.JusTcn

Fma delivered the opinion of the court.

The authority vested by its act of incorporation in the
Vicksburg, Shreveport, and Texas Railroad Company to construct a railroad from a point opposite -icksburg to the State
line of Texas, empowered it to construct as part of the road all
necessary bridges for the crossing of navigable streams, which
might be on its line. It was so held by the Supr'eme Court of
the State of Louisiana, and it would seem to be a self-evident
proposition. What the form and character, of the -bridges
should be, that is to say, of what height they should be erected,
and of what materials constructed; and whether with or without draws, were matters for the regulation of the State, subject only to the paramount authority of Congress to prevent
any unnecessary obstruction to the 'free navigation of the
streams. Until Congress intervenes in such cases, and exercises its authority, the power of the State is plenary. When
the State provides for the form and character of the structure,
its directions will control, except as against the action of Con

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

gress, whether the bridge be with or without draws, and irrespective of its effect upon navigation.,
As has often been said by this court, bridges are merely
connecting links of turnpikes, streets, and railroads; and the
commerce over them may be mhich greater than that on the
9treams which they cross. A break in the line of railroad communication from the want of a bridge may produce much
greater inconvenience to the public, than the obstruction to
. navigation caused by a bridge with proper draws. In such
cases, the local authority can best determine which of the two
mods of transportation should be favored, and how far either
should be made subservient to the other. Gilbmn v. Pdladphia, 3 Wall. 713, '729.
In the case at bar, no specific directions as to the form and
character of the bridges over the streams on the line of the
railroad were prescribed by the legislature of the State. The
authority of the company to construct them was only an implied one, from the fact that such structures were essential to
the continuous connection of -the line. Two conditions, however, Lust be deemed to be embraced within this implied
power; one, that the bridges should be so constructed as to
insure safety to the crossing of the trains, and be so kept at all
times; and the other, that they should not interfere unnecessarily with the navigation of the streams.
The line of road crossed a small stream, one of the tributaries
of the Ouachita river, called Bouff river, which was navigable for
about six months in the year. This river has its rise in Arkansas, and by its connection with the Ouachita, which empties
into Red river, its waters find their way to the Mississippi.
Over this river, the company constructed a bridge with a draw
sufficiently large to allow the passage of. steamers. It was
used for years without complaint from any one, so far as the
record discloses. But in 1880, it was found, upon inspection,
to be decayed and unsafe for the passage of trains. The defendant, which had succeeded to the property and interests of the
Vicksburg, Shreveport and Texas Company, therefore determined to rebuild it. To carry out this purpose with as little
inconvenience as practicable to vessels navigating the river, the

HAMILTON v. VICRSBURG, &c., RAILROAD.

283

COpinion of the Court.

company contracted with an experienced builder to construct
the bridge during the summer months, when the river was usuAlly too low for navigation. The work could not be begun
until the subsidence of the water in July. In order to expedite
its construction, the company stipulated with the contractor
to prepare the timbers at its workshops and transport them to
the ground as soon as the state of water would permit the work
to be commenced; arid it carried out its stipulation in that
respect. In the construction of the new bridge it became necessary to dismantle the draw of the old one, and to erect temporary supports while the timbers and draw of the new bridge
were being put in place. To prevent the stoppage of its trains
while this building was gding on, the company constructed a'
temporary bridge adjoining the old one, for their transportation, expecting to have the new bridge completed before the
winter rise, which usually began near the close of December,
should render the river navigable. But, early in August, rains
set in, and continued almost incessantly for months, rendering
the river navigable in November, much earlier than usual.
The work on the new bridge was thereby greatly impedcd. To
obviate this impediment, as far as possible, the company added
to the contractors force a gang of its own bridge laborers, who
assisted by working at night and on Sundays.
The court below found that the company did everything in
its power to accelerate the work on the new bridge, but it
was not completed until December 20th following. The water
in the river being increased by the unusual rains, there was
sufficient depth on the 6th of November to carry the plaintiff's
steamer with freight above the bridge. But the steamer could.
not pass owing to the temporary structure and the supports
used in the erection of the new bridge. For the losses alleged
to have been sustained from this obstruction between the 6th
of November and the 20th of December, the plaintiff brought
this action.
The District Court of Louisiana gave judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of one thousand dollars, from which both parties appealed to the Supreme Court of the State - the plaintiff
because he did not recover" as much as he clahned, and the

OCTOBER TERM, '1886.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant because there was a recovery of any sum. The
Supreme Court reversed the judgment, holding that the company was authorized by the charter of the original company,
to which the defendant had succeeded, to construct a bridge
over the river for the passage of its trains, and, when out of
repair and decayed, to replace it with a new one; that the
obstruction to navigation caused by the construction of the
new bridge was unavoidable, and the company could not,
'therefore, be held responsible for any injury resulting therefrom; that it was a case in which the defendant was entitled
to the protection of the rule of dxrnnurn absque qjurid. It
accordingly reversed the judgment, and ordered that the
action be dismissed.
The plaintiff contends, that Congress had previously acted
with respect to the navigation of this river and of all other
navigable waters in Louisiana, and had thereby interdicted
the placing of any obstruction in them, even of a temporary
character, to the passage of vessels. He cites in support of
this position the act of Februaiy 20th, 1811, enabling the people of the Territory of Orleans to form a constitution and
State government, the third section of which enacted that the
convention called to frame the Constitution should, by an
ordinance irrevocable without the consent of the United
States, provide, among other things, "that the river Mississippi and the navigable rivers and waters leading into the
same or into the Gulf of Mexico, shall be common highways
and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said State
as to other citizens of the United States, without any tax,
duty, impost, or toll therefor, imposed by the said State,"
2 Stat. 642, and also the proviso to the act of April 8th, 1812,
for the admission of Louisiana, which declares that it is upon
a similar condition that the State is incorporated into the
Union. 2 Stat. 701, ยง 1.
A sh-nilar provision is found in the acts admitting the States
of California. Wisconsin, and Illinois into the Union, with
respect to the navigable rivers and waters in them, the pur
port and meaning of which have been the subject of consideration by this court. .Escanaba Co. v. C(ikago, 107 U. S.678,

HAMILTON v. VICKSBURG, &c., RAILROAD.

285

Opinion of the Court.

and Cardwell v. Amercan Bridge Conany, 113 U. S. 205.
In the latter case, we had before us the clause in the act
admitting California, and we held that it did not impair the
power which the State could .excecise over its rivers, even if
the clause had no existence. We there referred to previous
decisions upon a similar enactment, and said "that if we treat
the clause as divisible into two provisiohs, they must be construed together as having but one object, namely, to insure a
highway equally open to all without preference to any, and
unobstructed by duties or tolls, and thus prevent the use of
the navigable streams by private parties to the exclusion of
the public, and the exaction of any toll for their navigation;
and that the clause contemplated no other restriction upon the,
power of the State in authorizing the construction of bridges
over them, whenever such construction would promote the
convenience of the public."
The objection to the authority conferred upon the company
to construct the bridge, from the legislation of Congress, is,
therefore, not tenable; and we agree with the ruling of the
court below that, whenever the exercise of a right, conferred
by law for the benefit of the public, is attended with temporary inconvenience to private parties, in common with the
public in general, they are not entitled to any 'damages therefor. The obstruction caused to the navigation of the stream
during the progress of the work on the new bridge, therefore,
afforded no ground of action. The inconvenience was damvm, absqve injuria. Bennett v. City of .YVew O.lean, 14: La.
Ann. 120; Barbinv. PoliceJry of Avoyeles, 15 La. Ann. 559.
Judgment ainrmed.

