OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Syllabus.

the proceedings-aforesaid, and the sentence aforesaid, may be
declared by this court to be null and ,void; and that the petitioner be released and discharged from the custody and imprisonment in which he is now held by color of the authprity (4
the United States."
2fr. Lcirenzo Ullo for petitioner.
MIL CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. As since the act of March 3, 1885,
43 Stat. 437, an appeal lies to this court from the judgments
of the Circuit Courts in habeas couos cases, this court will not
issue such a writ, even if it has the power -about which it is
unnecessary now to express an opinion - in cases where it may
as well be done in the proper Circuit Court, if there are no
special circumstances in the case making direct action or interyention by this court necessary or expedient. In this case
there are no such special circumstances, and the application
may as well be made to the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of New York as here. Our right to exercise this dis.
cretion is shown by the principles on which the decisions in Ex
parte 1?oyall, Nos. 1 and 2, 117 U. S. 241, an(! Bx.'te Royall,
117 U. S. 254, rest. This practice was suggested by us and
JDenied.
followed in Wales v. W7fitney, 114 U. . 564.

HANCOCK v. HfOLBROOK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOE

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted December 13, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

A suit cannot be removed from a State Court to a Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground of prejudice or local influence, under subsection 3 of ยง 639 Rev. Stat., unless all the plaintiffs or all the defendants

are citizens of the state in which the suit was brought, and of a state
other than that of which those petitioning for the removal are citizens.

BORR v. CIIAPMAINX
Syllabus.

This ,was an appeal from an order' of the Circuit Court
remanding to a State Court a cailse removed thence to the'
Circuit Court. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.>'X.J. . Rouse and .t['. WTllFm Grantfor appellant.
.Ar. 17zoma s J;. e ames and -i.
Mm. Cn

Robert .Tott for appellees&

F Jus'ric WArTE delivered the opinion of the'court.

The order remanding this case is affirmed. A suit cannot
be removed from a State Court to a Circuit Court of the
United States under subsection 3 of ยง 639 of the Revised Statutes on the ground of "prejudice or local influence," unless all
the plaintiffs or all the defendants are citizens of the state i'
which the suit was brought, and of a state other than that of'
which those petitioning for the removal are citizens. Here it
appears that, Hancock, the plaintiff, on whose petition the
removal was had, is a citizen of New York, and Eliza Jane,
Holbrook and George Nicholson, two of the defendants, and
those principally interested in-the litigation, citizens of "Mississippi, while R. W. Holbrook and Richard Fitzgerald, the'other
defendants, are alone citizens of Louisiana, where the suit was
brought. These -Louisiana defendants are necessary parties to
the suit, but, according to the record, those who are citizens of
Mississippi are the real parties in interest.
Affirned.

BORER v. CHAPMAN.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued December 13, 14, 18SO.-Decided January 10, 187.

A, a citizen of New Jersey, recovered judgment in a civil action on a contract against B, a citizen of Minnesota, whose property and estate were
situated, principally, in California. B died leaving a will by which he
devised real estate and bequeathed legacies to various persons in Minne-

