6i3J

EX PARTE RALSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

were not bound to inquire any further, nor are we bound to
answer other questions.
The judgment of the District Court is
-Afflivned.

EX PARTE RALSTON.
ORGINAL.
Argued and submitted December 21, 1886. -Decided

January 10, 1887.

The clerk below is not required to furnish a transcript of the record in a
cause in error, until a writ of error has issued to which it can be annexed.
In error to a state court it has been the prevailing custom, from the beginning, for the clerk of this court or the clerk of the Circuit Court for the
proper circuit to issue the writ, and for such writ to be lodged with the
clerk of the state court before he could be called on to make the necessary
transcript to be lodged in this court.
This court is without jurisdiction to vacate a supersedeas granted where
no writ of error was sued out, as it has no legal effect.

These were applications to the court as a court of original
jurisdiction (1) for a writ of mandamus to compel the clerk
below to send up a transcript of a record, and (2) to vacate a
supersedeas. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. S. Prentissfutt for the motion for a mandamus, and
opposing the motion as to supersedeas.
3. %James Londes, on behalf of The B'itish a/nd Arnenican,
2ortgagye Company, -Limited, for the motion to vacate the
supersedeas.
Mr. CHrEF
court.

JuSTICE

WAiTE delivered the opinion of the

This is an application for a writ of mandamus requiring the
clerk of the Supreme Court of the state of Louisiana to transmit to this court a true copy of the record in that court of i
judgment in the suit of the British and American Mortgage
Company against Mrs. E. J. Ralston and her husband, omit-

OCTQBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ting therefrom cartain portions not material to the Federal
question involved. Fxom the .showing made it sufficiently
appears that the judgment was rendered April 5, 1886, and
that on the 31st of May, 1886, the Chief Justice of the state
court allowed a writ of error to this court, "on furnishing
bond, with security, according to law, for one thousand dollars,
not to operate as a supersedeas." No writ was, however, issued
in fact, but the order of allowance, with the petition therefor,
was filed in the office of the clerk of the state court, "and a
.
for a copy of the record."
demand made on the clerk .
According to the statements in the petition, the clerk refused
to give- such a transcript unless it should include everything

used on the trial in the state court, but the petitioner wanted
only such parts of the record as were necessary to present the
single question of which this court had jurisdiction.
After the allowance of the writ by the Chief Justice of the
state court, on application of the petitioner, - Mr. Justice
Woods, the Associate Justice of this court allotted to the Fifth
Circuit, made this order, evidently supposing that a writ of
error had Actually been issued:
"A writ of error ha-iing been allowed in this case, and a
bond given and duly approved, without an allowance of supbrsedeas, though the right of supersedeas is claimed by Mrs. E.
J. Ralston, the plaintiff in error, it is ordered that further proceedings to enforce executory-process in execution sought to
be enforced in this case in the Supreme Court of Louisiana, or
in the District Court from which the case was appealed to said
Supreme Court of Louisiana, be suspended until th6 further
order of the Supreme Court of the United States."
From this statement it is apparent that we have no authority
over the clerk in the matter about which the mandamus is
aked. As no writ of error has in fact, been issued,'we have no
jurisdiction of the suit. .tussinav. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355, 358;
Bonduroant v. Watson, 103 U. S. 278. Waiving the question
whether the clerk of the state court could issue the writ on
the allowance of the Chief Justice of that court, which, to say
the least, has never yet'been held by this court, JcfDonogh. v.
.Millaudon, 3 How. 693, it is sufficient to say that he never has

