OCTOBER TERM; 1886:
Statement of Facts:

WINCHESTER v. HEISKELL.
ERlzQR TO THE SUPREMyE COUIT OF THE STATE OF tEN'ESSEE.
Submitted November 29, 1886.-Decided December 13, 1886.
A, being defendant in a suit in a State court to set aside a deed of real estate,
employed B as attorney and counsel to defend the suit. While the suit
was pending A conveyed the tract to C as trustee to secure certain debts
and liabilities of A. A became bankrupt, and D was appointed his
assignee. After all these proceedings B succeeded in obtaining a decree
establishing A's title to the tract, which decree recited that the assignee
in bankruptcy had become a party to the decree, and that the cause was
remanded by consent for a report as to what wa a reasonable counsel
fee for B, whichi was declared to be a lien on the premises. After report
the property was sold to B to satisfy that lien. In an action to enforce'
the lien under the trust deed to C as superior to that of B; Held, (1) That
the State court had jurisdiction so as to bind those who were parties to
the suit and those whom the parties- in law represented; (2) that the
assignee in bankruptcy having appeared in the State court and litigated
his rights there, he .and those whom he represented were bound by the
decree.

The following is fhe case as stated by the court.
The facts disclosed by the record are in brief as follows:
OAi the 16th of February, 1869, Annie L. Jones and others,
tho widow and heirs-at-law of William E. Jones, deceased, filed
their bill in the Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee,.
against D. H. Townsend to set aside and cancel a sheriff's deed
purporting to convey certain lands to him, and to be quieted
,in'their title to the property. The defendants in error, Heiskell, Scott & Heiskell, were employed by Townsend to defend
this suit, which they did successfully, and at the December
Term, 1876, obtained a decree of the Supreme Court of the
State establishing his title to the property. On the 18th of
June, 1875, while this suit was, pending, Townsend conveyed.
the land in dispute to George W. Winchester, in trust, to secure
'certain debts owing by him, and for which Benjamin May was
bound as indorser. On the 30th of November, 1875, Town-

WINCHESTER v. HEISKELL.
Statement of Facts.

send filed his petition in bankruptcy; and on the 12th of January, 1876, T. 1. Winchester was duly appointed his assignee.
In the decree of the Supreme Court establishing the title of
Townsend to the land appears the following:
"And it being suggested to the court that, pending the proceeding in this court, the title of the said Townsend has been
bankruptcy, it
assigned to Thomas S. Winchester, assignee inis, with the consent of the said Townsend by his counsel, ordered that the said Winchester be made a party to this decree,
and, by consent, this cause is remanded to the Chancery Court
of Shelby County to take

.

.

.

an account and make re-

port of the reasonable counsel fee ox the counsel, Heiskell,
Scott & ieiskell, for which a lien is hereby declared on the
premises in controversy, the said Winchester asking that the
account be taken below."
Under this order the cause was remanded, the account taken
in the Chancery Court, the amount due ascertained, the lien
declared, and the property sold to Heiskell, Scott & Heiskell
for its satisfaction.
- On the 12th of February, 1880, the present appellants filed
this bill in the Chancery Court of Shelby County against Heiskell, Scott & Heiskell to enforce the lien of the deed of trust
executed by Townsend to George W. Winchester, trustee,
claiming that their title -under this deed is superior to that of
the defendants under their purchase at the sale which had
been ordered in the former case. In their bill they allege that
they are not bound by the decree in the original suit, because
"neither they nor the interest in said land that they represented were before the court when said decree was pronounced,
and they 'had no representative before said court. The suit
was not revived or reinstated in their names or in the name of
the trustee after Townsend's bankruptcy and the assignment
of his assets'in bankruptcy." This is the substance of the
allegations of the bill on.this branch of the case. The hearing
was originally had before a commission of referees appointed
under a statute of Tennessee, and in their rerort it is said,
among other things: "This proceeding in the Chancery Court,
on the reference as to the amount of the fee, &c., is not such a

OCTOBER TER-I, 1886.
Counsel for the Motions.

matter in bankruptcy as is contemplated by ยง 711 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, 1874, especially under the
circumstances of this case." The report of the referees was
confirmed by the Supreme Court. In, its first decision no
reference was made to the question of the jurisdiction of the'
State court in, the original suit to adjudicate as to the lien for
fees, in view of the provisions of ยง 711 of the Revised Statutes;
-but, on a petition for rehearing and a suggestion of this omis-

sion, the decree was modified as follows:
"The court being of the opinion that this court had jurisdic-tionin the case of Annie I. J-oes v. 1?. I Townsend,mentioned
and set forth in the tecord, to declare the attorpeys' lien in
favor of the defendants in this case on the tract of land described in the pleadings, and that the Chancery Court of
Shelby County, Tenn., had jurisdiction to enforce said lien on*
said property by the proceedings, decrees, and sale, as shown
in the record, notwithstanding the bankruptcy of D. H. Town-'
send and the bankrupt proceedings in the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Tennessee, as showm
in the record, and notwithstanding the provisions of the 711th
section of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and notwithstanding the provisions of the sections of said Revised
Statutes embraced in Title 61, 'Bankruptcy,' the court adjudges
that the authority exercised by the State courts in said proceedings is not repugnant to the said laws of the United States.
In construing said laws of the United States, the court is of
the opinion that, under the circumstances of the case as shown
by the record, the said State courts had the jurisdiction to declare and enforce said liens on the land in question, and that
under the said proceedings the defendants acquired a good and
valid title to the land, in, controversy, and that the title is not
and was not void and a cloud on the 'complainants' right and
title, and the court doth so order and decree."
Upon this state of facts the appellees moved, (1) to dsmiss
the writ of 'error for want of jurisdiction; or, (2) to affirm
under Rule 6, clause 5.
r.

Hen

Crft,
.y
Mr. T 0 Twk'l; and Mr. L W. fume8

for the motions.

WINCHESTER v. HEISKELL.
Opinion of the Court.
1

rb.B. i. Este&opposing.

MR. CivF JUSTiCE WAiTE, after stating the. case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

-

-

One of the questions presented by the bill was as to the binding effect of the decree in the original case upon the complainants in this suit. Objection was not made in the pleadings to the jurisdictiaii of the court over the subject-matter, of
the action on account of the exclusive jurisdiction of the
courts of the -United States, under ยง 711 of the Revised
Statutes, "of all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy," but
it clearly was at the trial before the referees, and it, was
directly presentedto and decided by the Supreme Court. ,An
immunity was clained by the appellants under this statute
.from the operation of the decree of the State court on their
rights, because that statute made the jurisdiction of the courts_
of the United States exclusive in siich cases. We thus have
jurisdiction, btit as-the decision of The State court upon this
question was clearly right, we do not care to hear futher
argument. The assignee in -bankruptcy appeared in the State
court and litigated his rights there. This he had authority todo, and the judgment in such an action is binding on him.
This we have many times decided. Mays v. Fritto., 20 Wall.
414; Doe v. Childress, 21 Wall. 642, 67; Scott v. KEelly, 22
Wall. 57; Eyster v. Gaf, 91 U. S. 521 ; Burbank v. Bigelow,,
92 U. S. 179, 182; Jerome v. .eCarter, 94 U. S. 734, 737;
HcHenry v. La SociNt Franeaiose, 95 U. S. 58; Davis v.
Friedlander,104U. S. 5.70. The question here is not whether
that decree thus rendered binds these appellants, but whether
the State court had jurisdiction so as to bind those who were
parties to the suit, and those whom the parties in law. represented.
.The zotio

to dismiss is denied, and that to caffirm granted.

