G1AEENWICH INS. CO. v. PROV. STEAMSHIP CO. 4S1
Opinion of the Court.

GREEINWICH I-NSURAiCE CO. v. PROVIDENCE
AND STONINGTON STEAMSHIP (0.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted November $,136.-Decided December 20, ISSO.
A policy of marine insurance was effected April 5th for a term of six
months, with this agreement written in the margin: "This policy to continue in force from the date of expiration until notice is given this Company of its discontinuance, the assured to pay for such privilege pro rata
for the time used." On the 9th October folloui ing the assured sent to the
insurer a check for $66.67 with a letter stating that it was "one monthly
premium from Oct. 5 to Nov. 5" on the insurance "as specified in the
polidy." No other notice was given to the insurer before the loss which
happened November 6th: I1eld, That the payment was n(t notice to
discontinue the policy, nor an election to have it continued in force for
the additional month and no longer, but that the polic, continued in
force by its own terms until the assured should give notice of its discontinuance.

This was an action on a policy of marine insurance.

Judg-

ment below for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of
error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
361>. 1Filliamr Allen.Butler for plaintiff in error. 1W,'. T. E.
Stillmat and 2W'. Thomas f Hubbard were with' him -n
the brief.

.V&. Wheeler H. Pec 'har for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action on a policy of insurance, brought by the
defendant against the plaintiff in"
error, to recover for the loss
of the steamboat Rhode Island. It appeared on the trial that,
on the 5th of April, 1880, the Providence and Stonington

Steamship Company effected with the Greenwich Insurance,
Company a policy of marine insurance, numbered 2661, for
$10,000, upon the Rhode Island, for'the term of six months
from date, with an agreement written in the margin as follows:
VOL. CxrX-31

O'CTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"This policy to continue in force from the date of expiration
until notice is given this company of its discontinuance, the
assured to pay for such privilege pro rata for the time used."
The policy having been given in evidence, it was thereupon
admitted by defendant's counsel that the steamer Rhode
Island named in the policy was lost by a peril of the sea by
running ashore on :Bonnett's Point, in Narragansett Bay,
November 6th, 1880, and thereby suffered damage beyond the
amount of the insurance, and that the plaintiff thereafter gave
due notice and proof of the loss and interest. The amount of
the insurance money and interest to the date of trial was thereupon proved to be the sum of $11,338.18.
The defendant's counsel then gave in evidence a letter written
on behalf of the -plaintiff to and received by the defendant on
the day it bore date, which was as follows, to wit:
"Providence & Stonington Steamship Co., Treasurer's Office,
" NEw Yoiu, Oct. 9, 1880.
Co.,
.Zlew
York.
4The Greenwich .bs.
"GEi'rs: Herewith please find our check for sixty-six
dolls., being one monthly premium, from Oct. 5 to Nov. 5, '80,
on insurance on strs. Mhassachusetts & Rhode Island, as specified in your policies Nos. 2661 & 2662.
C. G. Bxjcocx, Treas."
"Yours resp'y,
.f

Plaintiff's counsel admitted that the letter was accompanied
by the check of the plaintiff for $66.66, and that no other or
further notice was given by the plaintiff to the defendant before the happening of the loss. The evidence being closed,
the defendant's counsel prayed the court to rule and decide:
First. That the privilege written on the margin of the policy
was wholly for the benefit of the assured, and gave them the
option of continuing the policy in force after the date of expiration named in it without doing any act or thing; that the
only notice or act on the part of the assured called for by the
privilege was notice of the time of discontinuance whenever
the assured should elect to give such notice, and make payment for the time used under the privilege.

GREENWICH INS. CO. v. PROV. STEAMSHIP CO.

483

Opinion of the Court

Second. That in the absence of any such act or notice on
the part of the assured the policy and the risk continued from
day to day under the terms of the privilege.
Third. That it was competent for plaintiff to make the time,
which was left indefinite and uncertain by the terms of the
privilege, definite and certain, and to fix the time to be used
under the privilege by proper notice or act for that purpose.
Fourth. That the act of the plaintiff, on October 9th, 1880,
after date of expiration of the policy had passed, and the
policy was in force under the privilege only, in paying one
month's premium, and specifying the period of one month,
beginning October 5th, 1880, and ending November 5th, 1880,
as the time for which payment was made, was in law an election to continue the risk in force for that month, and that the
legal effect of the transaction was to continue the policy in
force until November 5th, at noon, and no longer.
And thereupon defendant's counsel prayed the court to
direct a verdict for the defendant. This was refused, and the
court directed the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiff.
This is the whole case; and the only question is, whether
the sending of the check for an additional month's insurance
was, in legal effect, a notice of the discontinuance of the policy
after that time. The agreement written in the margin of the
policy was, that the policy should continue in force from the
(late of its expiration until notice was given to the insurance
company of its discontinuance, the assured to pay for such
privilege pro r'ato: for the time used. It (lid not specify when,
or how often, such peo ),ata payments should be made. The
plaintiff might have waited a year before making a payment,
unless the insurance company had demanded an earlier payment. The plaintiff elected to make a, monthly payment,
and made it. It seems to us very clear that the mere making
of such a payment was not, and did not amount to, a notice
to discontinue the policy, or an election to have it continued
in force for the month for which the payment was made, and
no longer. The plan adopted by the plaintiff, to pay from
month to month, was a reasonable one and favorable to the
insurance company. It would have been a less favorable one

OCTOBER TERM,' 1886.,
Opinion of thie Court.

to have deferred any payment longer, and a more favorable
one to have paid for alonger time, when it did make a payment. But in whatever manner it chose to arrange its
payments, it did not affect the terms of the policy. That continued in force by the terms of it, until the plaintiff gave
notice of its discontinuance. To say that a mere payment for
a specified time would amount in law to such a notice, would.
make it dangerous for them to make any payment at all until
'they met with a loss. Even if in making a payment they
should make an express stipulation or proviso, that it was not
intended as a notice of discontinuance, such a stipulation would
be of no avail, if the defendant is right in the position it
takes. This, we think, would be an unreasonable construction
of the contract and of the acts of the assured done in pursuance of it.
We cannot say that. such a coftract is a desirable one for
insurers to make. Ordinarily, on an insurance for a specified
time or adventure, such as a year for examuple, or a voyage,
they get their premium in advance for the risk of the whole
period or adventure; and if a loss happen ever so soon after
-the insurance is effected, no abatement of the premium is made.
This gives them the benefit of average losses in determinate
times or adventures, which is the solid basis on which all insurance rests. But the insurance company saw fit to make
the contract in the form it did; and having made it, it
is bound by its terms. And, according to that contract, we
think that it continued to be liable for a loss, although it
happened after the time covered by the premiums already paid,
the assured being only liable to pay pro tata for the time used,
and not yet paid for.
Te judgment 6f the Qircuit Court is afflyrmed.

