FREEMAN 'v. -ALDERSON.
Statement of Facts.

FREEMAN v. ALDERSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR TE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
.Argued November 2,1886. -Decided

November 29,1886.

.A personal judgment for'cosls may not be rendered against the defendant,
on default, in an action of trespass to try title to real estate, if citation
was served on him by publication, as a non-resident, and not personally;
and if such judgment be entered, it cannot be enforced against other
property of the defendant within the jurisdiction of the court.

The following was the case as stated by, the court.
This was an action of trespass to try the title to certain land
in Texas. It is the form in use to recover possession of real
property in that State.
The plaintiffs claimed the land under a deed to their grantor,
executed by the sheriff of McLennan County, in that State,
upon a sale under an execution issued on a judgment -ina
State court for costs, rendered against one Henry Alders0n,
then owner of the property,-but now deceased.
The defendants asserted title to the land as heirs of Alderson, contending that the judgment, under which the alleged
sale was made was void, because it was rendered against him
without personal service of citation, or his. appearance in the
action.
The material"facts of the case, as disclosed by the record, are
briefly.these: On the 16th of July, 1855, a trabt of land comprising one third of a league was patented by Texas to Alderson, who had been a soldier in its army. One undivided half
of this tract was claimed by D. C. Freeman and G. R. Freeman, and they brought an action against him for their interest.
The pleadings in that action are not set forth in the transcript,
but from the record of the judgment therein, which was produced, we are informed that the defendant was a non-resident
of the State, and that the citation to him was made by publication. There was no personal service upon him, nor did he

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

appear in the action. The judgment, which was rendered on
,lhe 1st of October, 1858, was of 'a threefold character. It first
.adjudged that the plaintiffs recover one undivided half of the
described tract. It then appointed commissioners to partition
and divide the tract, and set apart, by metes and bounds, one
half thereof, according to quantity and quality, to the plaintiffs;, and to make their report at the following term -of the
court. And, finally, it ordered that the plaintiffs have judgment against the defendant for all costs in the case, but stayed
execution until the report of the commissioners should be
returned and adopted, and a final decree entered.
-At the following term, the commissioners made a report
showing that they had divided the tract into two equal parc.els. The report was confirmed, and on the 31st of March,
1859, the court adjudged that the title to one of these parcels
was divested .from Alderson and vested in the plaintiffs, the
two.Freemans, and that they recover all costs in that behalf
against him, which were $61.45, and that execution issue
therefor. Execution therefor was issued to the sheriff of
McLennwn County on the 30th of 'May, directing him to make
the amount out of "the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements"
of the defendant. It was levied on the other half of the
divided tract, which remained the defendant's property. On
the 5th of July, 1859, this half was sold by the sheriff to one
James E. Head for $66.79, being the costs mentioned and
his fees for the levy and for his deed, which was executed to
the purchasert In September following, Head conveyed the
premises to- D. C. Freeman, for the alleged consideration of
$178. 'Two of the defendants disclaimed having any interest.
The other defendants, including Freeman, so far as their title
is disclosed by the transcript, claiied under the sheriff's deed.
On the trial, the defendants, to show title out of the plaintiffs, offered inevidence the judgment for the costs, the execution issued thereon, and the sheriff's deed; to the introduction
of which the plaintiffs objected, on,the ground that the judgment for costs was a judgment ia versonam, and not in, rem,
and was rendered against the defendant, who was a non-resident'
of the State, without his appearance in the action or personal

FREEMAN v. ALDERSON.

Opinion of the Court.

service of citation upon him, but upon a citation by publication
only, and therefore constituted no basis of title in the purchaser under the execution.
The court sustained the objection and excluded the documents from the jury; and the defendants excepted to the
ruling. No other evidence of title being produced by the
defendants, a verdict was found for the plaintiffs, and judgment in their favor wasentered thereon; to review which the
case is brought to this cc art on a writ of error.
orris for plaintiff in error.
P
2....F.A
Xr.L. IF Goo6,ick and .Ar. ff. Grahanm for defendants
in error, submitted on their briefs.
MIa. JuSTICE FELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
Actions in rera, strictly considered, are proceedings against
property 'alone, treated as responsible for the claims asserted
by the libeliants or plaintiffs. The property itself is in such
actions the defendant, and, except in cases arising during war
for its hostile character, its forfeiture or sale is sought for the
wrong, in the commission of which it has been the instrument,
or for debt. or obligations for which by operation of law it is
liable. The court acquires jurisdiction over the property in
such cases by its seizure, and of the subsequent proceedings by
public citation to the world, of which the owner is at liberty
to avail himself by appearing as a claimant in the case.
There is, however, a large class of cases which are not
strictly actions in rem, but. are frequently spoken of as actions
quasi im ''ei , because, though brought against persons, they
only seek to subject certain property of those persons to the
discharge of the claims asserted. Such are actions in which
property of- non-residents is attached and held for the discharge of debts due by them to citizens of the State, and actions for the enforcement of mortgages, and other liens. Indeed,
all proceedings having for their sole object the sale or other
disposition of the property of the 'defendant to satisfy the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

demands of the plaintiff, are in a general way thus designated.
But they differ, among other things, from actions which are
strictly in 'em, in that the interest of the defendant is alone
sought to be affected, that citation to him is required, and
that judgment therein is only conclusive between the parties.
The State has jurisdiction over property within its limits
owned by non-residents, and may, therefore, subject it to the
payment of demands against them of its own citizens. It is
only in virtue of its jurisdiction over the property, as we said
on a former occasion, that its tribunals can inquire into the
non-resident's obligations to its own citizens; and the inquiry
can then proceed only so far as may be necessary for the disposition of the property. If the non-resident possesses no
-property in the State, there is nothing upon which its tribundls can act. Penwyer' v. 11re 95 U. S. '714, 723. They
cannot determine the validity of any demand beyond that
which is satisfied by the property. For any further adjudication, the defendant must be personally served with citation or
voluntarily appear in the action. The laws of the State have
no operation outside of its territory, except 'so far as may be
allowed by comity; its tribunals cannot send their citation
beyond its limits and require parties there domiciled to respond to proceedings against them - and publication -of citation
within the State cannot create any greater obligation upon
them to appear. 1b., page 727. So, necessarily, such tribunals can have no jurisdiction to pass upon the obligations of
non-residents, except to the extent and for the purpose mentioned.
This doctrine is clearly stated in Cooper v. Reynods, 10
Wall. 308, where it became necessary to declare the effect of
a personal action against an absent party without the jurisdiction. of the court, and not served with process or voluntarily
appearing in the action, and whose property was attache d,
and sought to be subjected to the payment of the demand of
the resident plaintiff. After stating the general purpose-of
the action, and the inability to serve process upon the defendant, and the provision of law for attaching his property in
such cases, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said:

FREEMAN v. ALDERSON.

"189

Opinion of the Coult.

"If the defendant appears, the cause becomes mainly a suit in
.peisona-f, with the added incident that the property attached
remains liable, under the control of the court, to answer to
any demand which may be established against the defendant
by the final judgment of the court. But if there is no appearance of the defendant, and no service of process on him, the
case becomes in its essential nature a proceeding in rem, the
only effect of which is to subject the property attached to the
payment of the demand which the court may find to be due
to the plaintiff. That such is the nature of this proceeding in
this latter class of cases is clearly evinced by two well-established propositions: First, the judgment of the court, though
in form a personal judgment against the defendant, has no
effect beyond the property attached in that suit. No general
execution can be issued for any balance unpaid after the
attached property is exhausted. No suit can be maintained
on such a judgment in the same court, or in any other; nor
can it be used as evidence in any other proceeding not affecting the attached property; nor could the costs in that proceeding be collected of defendant out of any other property
than that attached in the suit. Second, the court, in such a,
suit, cannot proceed unless the officer finds some property of
defendant on which to levy the writ of attachment. A return
that none can be found is the end of the case, and deprives
the court of further jurisdiction, though the publication may
have been duly made and proven in court." Page 1318.
To this statement of the law it may be added, what, indeed,
is a conclusion from the doctrhile, that whilst the costs of an
action may properly be satisfied out of the property attached,
or otherwise brought under the control of the court, no personal liability for them can be created against the absent or
non-resident defendant; the power of the court being limited,
as we have already said, to the disposition of the property,
which is alone within its jurisdiction.
The pleadings in the case in which judgment was rendered
for costs against Alderson are not before us. *We have only
the formal judgment, from which it should seem that the action
wad to recover an undivided interest in the property, and then

OCTOBER TER-K,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

to obtain a partition of it, and have that intere st set apart in
severalty to the plaintiffs -a sort of mixed action to try the
title of the plaintiffs to the undivided half of the property, and
to obtain a partition of that half. Such action, though dealing
entirely with the realty, is not an action in rern in the strict
sense of the term; it is an action against the parties named,
and, though the recovery and partition of real estate are sought,
that does not change its character as a personal action; the
judgment therein binds only the parties in their relation to the
property. The service of citation by publication may suffice
for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court over the property so far as t- try the right to its possession, and to decree
its partition; but it could not authorize the creation of any
personal demand against the defendant, even for costs, which,
could be satisfied out of his other property.
The judgment is for all the costs in the case, and no order is
made that they be satisfied out of the property partitioned.
Had satisfaction been thus ordeik-d, no execution would have
been necessary. The execution, also, is general in its direction,
commanding the sheriff to make the costs out of any property
of the defendant.
The judgment, as, far as the costs are concerned, must, therefore, be treated as a judgment in personam,and, for the reason
stated, it was without any binding obligation upon the defendant; and the execution issued upon it did not authorize the sale
made, and, of course, not the deed of the sheriff. Were the
conclusion otherwise, it would follow, as indeed it is claimed
here, that a joint owner of real property might sue a non-resident co-tenant for partition, and, having had his own interest
set apart to himself, proceed to sell out on execution the interest of his co-tenant for all the costs.
The judgment of the court below must be
Afflrmed.

