WYLIE v. NORTHAMPTON BANK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sylvania, authorized to charge a rate of interest in excess of
the legal rate;" and said nothing upon the question whether
there ever had been any such banks. Leba2nonNatio'nalBank
n, 98 Penn. St. 65, 73.
v. -wan raw
Neither the am9unt of the judgment below, nor the certificate of division, being sufficient to give this court jurisdiction,
it necessarily follows, as was held in Meeth v. -Tew England
3Iortgage Co. and W-atervile v. 'an &yke, above cited, that
the
Trit of efror muwqt be disraissed.

WYLIE v. NORTHAMPTON BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 24,1886.-Decidd December 13, 186

The robbery by burglars of securities deposited for safe-keeping in the
vaults of a bank is no proof of negligence on the part of the bank.
It is competent for a national bank to take steps for the recovery of its
property stolen by burglars, and to agree to take like steps for the recovery of the property of others deposited with it for safe-keeping and
stolen at the same time; and want of proper diligence, skill, and care in
performing such an undertaking is ground of liability to respond in damages for failure: but the evidence in this case failed to establish either
such an agreement, or the want of diligence and care, and the jury was
properly instructed to return a verdict for defendant.

This was an action against a national bank to recover the
value of certain securities deposited in its vaults, and stolen
therefrom by burglars. The case is stated in the opinion of
the court.
.31r. Geo'ge H. Adams for plaintiff in error cited: ]Arational"
Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 699; Whitney w. Bank, 1 M orrison's Transcript, 263; S. C. 50 Vt. 388; Tr ley v.Bank of Brattleboro, 47 Vt. 546; Baylis v. Travellers' As. Co., 113 U. S.
316, 320.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Iie. William G. Peekbar (11fe. Eliohalet Williams Tyler
-was with him on the brief) for defendant in error cited: Alleg]eny County Forkiw use v. AIoore, 95 Penn. St. 408; Citemiecl Bank v. Kohner, 8 Daly, 530; Bright v. AIetarie Cemetety,'
33 La. Ann. 58; Toster v. Essex Bank, 17 Mass. 479; S. C. 9
Am. Dec. 168; .AtLemore v. Louisianca -Bank, 91 U. S. 27;
Cla~fin v. Meyer, 75 N. Y. 260; First NYat. Bank v. Ocean
Bank, 60 N. Y. 278;-JDudley v. Seranton, 57 N. Y. 4294;
Parker .v. R-ensseaer -& Saratoga Raihoad, 16 Barb. 315;
.elevan v. Simonson, 25 N. Y. Superior Court, 243; Ross v.
Mather, 51 N Y. 108.
Afpe. JusTib

XAT.Ews

delivered the opinin of the court.

This was an- action in law originally commenced by the
plaintiff in error in the Superior Court of the City of New
York, and removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court.
The complaint alleged, that, on the 26th day of January,
1876, the plaintiff was the owner of eight first mortgage
bonds of the Pacific Railroad Company of Missouri, for $1000
each, with coupons attached, which, at that time, were in the
'custody of the defendant for safe-keeping under an agreement
by which the defendant agreed -to keep the same safely and
deliver them to her upon demand, but that. on that day the
defendants bank was broken into by burglars ant a large
amount of property taken by them therefrom, amounting in
'value to over $1,600,000,, consisting chiefly of bonds, stocks,
and other similar securities, with some money, the property in
part of the bank and of others, and including the plaintiff's
bonds and coupons; and it is averred that- the said loss by
robbery occurred in consequence of a want of due care on the
part of the defendant.
It isfurther alleged by the plaintiff, that, shortly after the
said loss, "the plaintiff was intending and was about to enter
in good faith upon negotiations and to take measures for the
recovery of her' said bonds and coupons from whomsoever
then possessed the same; that thereafter, and about the time
'last mentioned, the defendant represented to the plaintiff that

WYLIE v. NORTHAMPTON BANK.
Opinion 'of the Court.

the defendant was about tb take measures for the recovery of
the property so taken, and expected to recover all of said
property in bulk, or the greater part thereof, from the persons
taking the same as aforesaid, by means of rewards and ether
measures, and was undertaking, or about to undertake, negotiations with said person or persons, to the plaintiff unknown,
for accomplishing the same; and the defendant then further
represented, that it expected to receive such restoration if it was
allowed to act therein in behalf of the plaintiff and in behalf
of other depositors and losers who were in the same position
as the plaintiff; and the defendant further represented, that
it, the said defendant, was in a better position to negotiate for
the restoration of said property as aforesai,' and could accomplish the same at less expense, than if the plaintiff and other
individuals, owners and losers of said property, were to act in
that respect independently.
"That thereupon, and at or about the time last stated, the
defendant requested the plaintiff t- permit and. authorize-the
defendant to act for her and in her behalf in the respects mentioned, and in such negotiations, for the recovery of her said
bonds and coupons, with the bonds, stocks, securities, and
other property of the defendant and other owners and losers
of property as aforesaid; and further requested the plaintiff
not to undertake negotiation with, or offer rewards or other
inducements to the persons who had taken or were in possession of said bonds or other property as aforesaid, for the
return of the same.
"That thereupon, and relying upon such- representations
and all of them, the plaintiff complied with such requests of
defendant, and did not undertake negotiations with or offer
rewards or 'other inducements to such persons as aforesaid for
the return of her said bonds and coupons, and permitted and
authorized the defendant to act for her and in her behalf in
the respects mentioned, and as requested in such and any
negotiations for the recovery of her said bonds and coupons,
with the bonds, stocks, securities, and other property of the
defendant and ofher owners and losers of said property as
aforesaid.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
O

,j That thereupon the said defendant undertook to, act in
behalf of the plaintiff in the respects mentioned, and took
certain proceedings and entered into certain negotiations
witb the persons who had taken -said property or possessed
'the same as aforesaid, for the recovery of the §ame; that some
time during the years 1879 and 1880, the defendant, acting as
aforesaid, recovered and received from said persons the greater
part of said stolen property, taken, as aforesaid, on the 26th
day of January, 1876, including a large amount of the separate
,property of the defendant, amounting, in all, in -face or par
value, to about $1,500,000; and thereupon the defendant settled and compounded with said persons for all claims arising
or growing out of such taking or robbery as aforesaid.
"That the difference between the amount of property so
recovered, and the amount of property taken or stolen on
January 26, 1876, as aforesaid, and all the property so taken
and not recovered, was by the defendant allowed and agreed
to be retained by and released to the said persons as a consideration or reward for the restoration of the remainder, as
aforesaid. That among the securities and property so allowed
'and agTeed to be retaied and so released by the defendant
were the eight bonds of the plaintiff and all the coupons
thereto belonging. That the plaintiff was hot informed at
the time by the defendant of the terms of said agreement or
arrangement between the defendant and said persons, but hll
the proceedings of the defendant in those respects and for the
restoration of such property were .concealed from the plaintiff,
and she has never consented to the action of the defendant
therein.
"That by means of plainti 's said property, together with
of.her considerations, and by the total sacrifice of the plaintiff's
said property, the defendant was enabled to recover, and did
reicover as aforesaid, a large amount of its own property and
the property bf its other depositors, And :has reimbursed itself
for 'the greater part of its losses in said robbery and for -the
expenses which the defenda-At incurred in respect to the matters herein mentiofied.
"That the defendant, not regarding its promises and under-

WYLIE v. NORTHAMPTON BANK.
Opinion of.the Court

takings, did not take due care of the plaintiff's interest as
aforesaid, but, on the contrary, sacrificed the same for its .own
advantage, and so negligently and carelessly conducted itself
with respect to the plaintiff's said property and interest,,and
took so little care thereof, that, by and'through the mere
neglect and improper conduct of -the defendant and its servants, and by the wilful neglect of 'plaintiff's said interests so,
committed to its charge, the plaintiff has wholly lost her said
property," for the value of which she gccordingly asks judgment.
To this the -defendant answered, admitting that securities to
the amount in par value of about $1,600,000, belonging'in
part to the defendant and partly to its officers and other persons, were-stolen from its vaults by armed burglars in January,
1876, and that among said securities were the bonds claimed
by the plaintiff as plaintiff's property. The answer alleges
that -the 'bonds of the plaintiff, prior to the burglary, were
held by the defendant in its vaults as a favor to the plaintiff,
by permission of one of the defendant's officers, without the
consent -or agreemeit of the defendant, and were not on
deposit 'with the defendant for any reward or consideration to
the defendant, but were left on the. special agreement made
with the plaintiff that the bonds should remain at the risk of
thi plaintiff, and the defendant should in no case be, responsible therefor; 'and alleges that it had no corporate power to
make any cointraet or agreement, either with reference to th
safe-keeping of the said bonds, or any such contrhct as that'
alleged in the complaint for their recovery, and that no such.
contract was in fact ever made, all the'allegations of the complaint in that respect being denied. The answer further
alleges, that the defendant, "while having no duty or obligation to the plaintiff in the premises, nevertheless did use good
faith and due care in all the transactions mentioned in the
complaint, and the defendant committed no breach of trust,
and was guilty of no breach of trust, frand, carelessness, or
negligence whatever in any or all of said matters; but, on
the contrary, defendant alleges, that, at its own expense,
defendant enabled plaintiff to recover four of the eight

366

OCTOBER 'TERM,. 1886;
Opiniounof the Court.

b6nds, for the value -of which plaintiff here sues defendant;" and that the plaintiff's failure to recover back the remaining, four of the eight bonds was caused solely by the
carelessness and negligence of the agents employed by the
plaintiff and not by the defendant.
,By a pleading subsequently filed, and called a replication,
the plaintiff admitted that since the commencement of the
action she had recovered four of the bonds mentioned in the
complaint by means of an action of replevin against one Henry
G. Pearson, then the postmaster of the city of New York, and
reduced her claim accordingly.
The cause' came on for trial by a jury, and the plaintiff, hav-,
ing introduced evidence to maintain the issues on her part,
rested her case, when, on a motion .of the defendant, the court
instructed the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, which
was done. Judgment was rendered thereon in favor of the
defendant, to reverse which this writ of error is now prose-,
cuted.
The question of law for our determination, is whether there
was sufficient evidence in support of the plaintiff's cause of
action to require its submission to the jury.
The evidence offered by the plaintiff on the trial of the
cause tended to prove the following facts:
The burglary occurred in January, 1876. lEfforts were immediately made by the bank to recover the lost property ; and,
about three weeks after the burglary, the officers and directors
of the bank caused a meeting to be held at the bank, of some,
of the losers, including depositors for safe-keeping. Plaintiff
did not attend this meeting, and it does not appear that she
was represented there. At that meeting directors and officers
of the bank were present, and it was proposed to form a committee composed of bank officers and depositors to take measures to recover the stolen property. This was assented to by
the bank's officers, but was voted down, and the matter left,
as before, to the efforts of the bank.
In 1877 the plaintiff in error married Dr. Wylie, of New
York, who thereafter acted for her in the matter. In the
same year Dr Wylie was informed, through a patieord, that he

,WYTLI.E U. NORTHAkPTON BANk.

367

Opinion of the Court.

could deal with Scott, one of the burglars, for the recovery of
Mrs. Wylie's bonds. He did not at once act upon this, because he understood the bank was acting for his wife. Shortly
thereafter,-Dr-wylie stated this proposition to Warrener, the
vjce-preident-and manager of the-bank,-and that he thought
he could get back his wife's bond-s. larrener then requested
Wylie not to'negotiate ih4ependently of *thebank, and stated
that the bank was negotiating to get the securities back.' To
this request Wylie acceded.
On February 9, 1878, Wylie received from Hinckley, one of
the prominent directors of the bank, a letter representing that
he Was acting for the bank, and enclosing the following paper,
which he requested the plaintiff to sign:
"We, whose names follow, having suffered the loss of securities by the robbery of the Noithampton National Bank in
January, 1876, hereby agree to pay a pro 'ate -proportion of
the expenses incurred in obtaining them and returning them,
to us."
iH"inckley wrote again, February 27, 1878, as he says, at -the
request- of Warrener, and Edwards, the president, urging Mr,
Wylie to si'n the paper, and saying that they thought the
property could be recovered "cheaper in buli] than in detail,"
and that they had "strong hopes of being able to effect a
negotiation at, no distant day, and would like to make one
clean job of it." Thereupon, on March 21, 1878, 1rs. Wylie,
and her husband signed the paper as requested, 'and returned.
it to thb'bank.
"
*In October, 1877, Edwards, the president of the bank, was
notified by persons acting in behalf of Scott and Dunlap, two
of the burglars their under sentence, that $100,000 of the best
bonds had been put aside and money-borrowed on them, and
that .the'whole lot could be had for $8000; whereupon efforts
were made to effect this recovery. To the knowledge of Edwards and the vice-president, Warrener, and upon consultation
with them, Hinckley was allowed, however, to separately negotiate, through the same channel, for the return of $25,000
Union Pacific Railroad bonds, which were known to belong
to him, on payment of $6000. These $25,000 of bonds were

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

a part of the $100,000 lot, and upon delivery were locked up,
and the transaction concealed until June, 1878. After the
$6000 was paid, the difficulties of negotiation increased, the
persons holding the balance of $75,000 making exorbitant demands. While further negotiations for the $75,000 were proceeding, Hlinckley, though acting as an officer of the bank for
all parties concerned, and acting with Edwards and Warrener,
again attempted to make his private bargain-for $19,000 more
of Union Pacific bonds supposed to be in the same lot. The
return of the $19,000 was offered upon payment of $10,000 to
the parties holding them; which offer Was refuseid, the price
being considered too exorbitant. Further attempts were made
to secure the return of the remaining $75,000, but the holders
of the securities refused all offers made for their return, and
the whole $75,000 were sent to Europe and negotiated or
otherwise lost. On this subject, Hinckley wrote to Dr. Wylie
on May 10,1879: "This I do know, that
.
no part of the
V75,000 left the country until some time in 1878, after I refused
to pay $10,000 for the balance, $19,000, of my U. P.'s. It was
my refusing to pay that sent them abroad. If I had accepted
the offer, I have no doubt we could have got the whole $75,000
at 50 per cent. of the market value." Hinckley also wrote to
Dr. Wylie: "The offer was a specific one for $25,000 U. P. S. F.
bonds. It came from the thieves, not from me, or any 6ne in
my interest. If the offer had been to return the Missouri
Pacifics, you would have ,been notified, and not I. Every
effort was made to induce the holders to name a price at
which they would return the $100,000, but to no purpose,
although I have good reason to believe that if I had accepted
the second offer of 50 per cent. of the market value, something
might have been done."
In January, 1879, Dr. Wylie notified various bankers abroad
of the theft:of the bonds, and subsequently certain of the
coupons from said bonds were presented for payment, of
which the plaintiff was notified by the railroad company, and
she replevied and recovered the same. It was then ascertained for the first time, in June, 1879, that the bank had not
sent particulars of -the robbery abroad further than that tho

WYLIE v. NORTHAMPTON BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

robbery had occurred, and such a list of bonds stolen, but the
numbers of the bonds were not given; some circulars giving
the numbers of the bonds and a general cable were sent to
London, but no circulars were sent to Frankfort or elsewhere
on the Continent.
In 1876 and 1877 indictments were found in Massachusetts
against Scott and Dunlap, and also against Leary, Conners,
and Draper, for this burglary. Scott and Dunlap were tried
and convicted at Northampton; the others had not then been
caught. Afterwards Draper was arrested and taken to Northampton, and remained there in jail untried about two and one
half years; shortly before the expiration of which time, in
1880, Conners and Leary were arrested and taken to Northampton jail. Negotiations were conducted between the bank
and Scott and Dunlap, then in State prison, and influence
brought to bear upon them for the return of the property, and
they finally stated to one of the directors that Leary had control of it. After Leary was arrested, Scott and Dunlap wrote
a letter to him, which resulted in the greater portion of the
property being recovered soon after Conners was taken to
Northampton. Hinckley and Warrener went to New York
to a safe deposit company there and brought it away. A
little before or after this final recovery, Conners, Leary, dnd
Draper were all discharged at Northampton without trials.
The amount of property stolen .was recovered, except about
$12,000 cash and $70,000 to $80,000 par value of bonds and
securities. The bulk of the negotiable coupon bonds were
recovered; also all non-negotiable bonds, and all negotiable
securities except about $80,000.
Hinckley testified that a final recovery was not made by or
through him, and not by or through the means mentioned'in
the 1878 and 1879 letters to Wylie. Everything was futile
until the final recovery. The bank or its officers did not agree
that the plaintiff's bonds should be retained' and released to
the thieves, or any other person, as compensation for the
restoration of the remainder. Of the coupons attached to the plaintiff's stolen bonds maturing prior to the commenceVOL. cxix-24

OCTOBER- TERM,' , 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of this action, tventy-eight have been recovered. These
coupons were each for $30.
The value of the plaitiff's bonds, on January 31,.1882, was
$1080 for each bond, with unmatured coupons only attached.
Of the plaintiff's b6nds so stolen, four have been-recovered by
her.
The complaint in this case may be considered as embracing
two distinct causes of action: the first, founded on the alleged
negligence of the defendant in the original loss of the bonds,
and the second, on negligence alleged to have occurred in the
execution of the agreement for their recovery. It was decided
in the case of .National Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 699, 104,
that it would "be competent- for a national bank to receive a
special deposit of such securities as those here in question,
either on a contract of hiring or without reward, and it would
be liable for a greater or less degree of negligence accordingly." In the present case, it is conceded that there is no
evidence of negligence on the part of the bank resulting in the
original loss by robbery, except the mere fact of the loss itself
by that means. The plaintiff's case, therefore, upon this cause
of action is without proof.
As to the second cause of action, the facts stated in the complaint seem to us to be sufficient, if proven, to constitute a legal
liability on the part of the defendant. It would certainly be
competent for a national bank to take measures for the' iecovery of its own property lost in the way described. If the
loss, as in the present case, inoluded the property of others,
and it was deemed best, having reference to the bank's own
interest, that these measures should be taken by the bank
alone for itself and all concerned, it might lawfully undertake
to aa for others thus jointly concerned with itself as well as
for itself alone; and want of proper diligence, skill, and care
in the performance of such an undertaking would be ground
of liability, to respond in damages for such failure. Much
more would the bank be liable, in such a case, if, in thu performance of such an u ndertaking, it used the property of the
plaintiff for the recovery of its own. This, it is alleged in the
complaint in this case, the defendant did. There is a total

WYLIE v. NORTHAMPTON, BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

-

want of evidence to this effect, and that ground of complaint
was very -properly abandoned:
The plaintiff, therefore, must stared upon the remaining allegations, which may be reduced to two: 1st,. That the bank
did make such an agreement to act as the plaintiff's agent in
the recovery of her property; and, 2d, That it was guilty of a
want of due care and diligence in the performance of its duty
as such, whereby the loss occurred. On both of these points
we think there was no evidence to charge the defendant sufficient to require it to be -submitted to the jury. The meeting
referred to in the evidence, called by the bank, of those interested with itself in the recovery of the stolen property, resalted in no such agreement. The bank had before that been
taking such measures for that purpose in its own behalf, and
incidentally for the others, as it deemed best. The proposal
made at the meeting to put. the matter in charge of a joint
committee of'the officers of the bank aiid individual losers was
rejected. The bank continued thereafter to prosecute the matter as it had been doing from. the beginning. The coi .munications which subsequently took place between Dr. Wylie, the
plaintiff's husband, and Mr. Warrener, the vice-president and
manager of the bank, based on the information which the
former had received from his patient, that he could deal with
Scott, one of the burglars, for the recovery of his wife's bonds,
and the replay made by Mr. Warrener requesting him not to
institute an independent negotiation, on the ground that it
might interfere with the success of those which the bank was
then prosecutiiik, do not tend .to prove a contract by which
the bank assumed to act as the plaintiff's agent in the matter,
which bound the bank to take any other measures than such
as it was then fursuing, or which obliged the plaintiff not to
undertake any separate negotiations of her own. At the
most, it can be considered only as a friendly. understanding,
between two parties having like interests, in respect to the
course deemed best for the interests of both.
But, even if it could be supposed that there was proof of a
distinct agreement, such as is alleged, whereby the bank
agreed, in consideration of the plaintiff's desisting from any

OCTOBER TERM,'- 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

separate efforts on her own behalf to prosecute measures for
recovery of her property equally with that of the bank and.
others, there is still an entire failure of evidence to establish,
as against the bank, any failure of performance on its part.
It seems to have acted with promptness, with diligence, with
skill, and with success. The great bulk of the stolen property
was in fact recovered through its exertions and instrumentalities. This recovery included one half in number of the bonds
lost by the p5laintiff, and no part of the plaintiff's property was
used or sacrificed to save what was secured.
The, particular circumstances in regard to"the recovery by
'Hinckley of his Union Pacific Railroad bonds, which seem to
form the chief matter of complaint on the part of the plaintiff,
do not seem to us to warrant any inference against the bank.
Hinckley, although a director of the bank, had an individual
interest in the bonds, and the information which led to his
negotiations and the recovery of a portion of them, came to
him directly because he was the only owner of bonds of that
description included in the loss. He was, therefore, allowed
by the bank, without objection, to negotiate separately for
their return. He recov ered $25,000 by the payment of $6000,
but $1,000 additional he was unable to obtain, except upon
payment of what he deemed to be an exorbitant demand, with
which he was unwilling to comply. It is supposed that
Hinckley's bonds were a part of the l.t amounting in all to
$100,000; it is also supposed that this lot included some of the
plaintiff's bonds; and it is also supposed that, in consequence
of Iinckley's refusal to continue negotiations fgr the recovery
of the remainder of his own bonds, the holdirs secretly sent
them to Europe, where they passed into the hands of innocent
holders and became lost beyond recovery; but all this is mere
matter of conjecture. There is absolutely in the case no evidence whatever, either that any part of the bonds of the plaintiff constituted a portion of this lot of $100,000, nor that they
could have been recovered, either without tinckley's interference, or if he had pursued his negotiations;. nor that the bonds
were sent abroad by reason of any-thing done or omitted by
him. Iinckley does, indeed, state, in a letter written by him

