THACKRAH v. HAAS.
Statement of Facts.

TIHACKRAH v. HAAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted December 9,186.-

Decided December 20, IS.

A transfer of shares in a corporation, procured from the owner, while so
intoxicated as to be incapable of transacting business, by fraud, with
knowledge of his condition, and for a grossly inadequate consideration,
without any fault of his, he is unable
will be set aside in equity; and if,
to restore the consideration, provision for its repayment may be made in
the final decree.

This suit was brought on December 16, 1880, by Thackrah
against Haas, Godbe, the London Bank of Utah (Limited)
and the Royal Mining Company of Utah.
The complaint alleged that on September 17, 1880, the
plaintiff was owner of certain interests, property and rights
in the mining company, equal- to 80,000 shares of its capital
stock, and then of the value of $80,000, (as to 75,000 shares in
his own right, and as to the remaining 5000 as trustee,) and
for the same was entitled to have 80,000 shares issued to him
whenever the stock should be issuable; that on that day, and
for two months before and a month afterwards, the plaintiff
was continuously in a state. of intbxication to such a degree as
to have his mental faculties 'thereby so impaired as -o render
him not in his right mind, and wholly incapacitated tu-transact any business or enter into any contract; tht all the defendanfs, at the time of the transfer hereinafter mentioned,
knew that the plaintiff was and for two months had been in
that condition; that while he was in that condition the bank
through its officers pursued, harassed and goaded him as to a
debt of his to the bank, in order to extort from him a transfer
to Haas of his interest in the mining company, and the plaintiff was greatly worried by other creditors to whom he owed
small amounts, and was greatly excited and annoyed by this
conduct of the bank and other creditors, as the defendant6
knew; that while ii this condition the plaintiff was, as he

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

believes, encouraged in his drunkenness and furnished with
intoxicating drinks by the agents of Haas, with the knowledge
of the bank; that on September 17, 1880, Haas'and the bank,
well knowing the plaintiff's condition and his incapacity for
business, fraudulently imposed upon and extorted from him,
for the grossly inadequate sum of $1200, a transfer or assignment in writing to Haas of the whole of the plaintiff's interests aforesaid in the mining company; that 6odbe and the
bank were the real parties in interest for whom the transfer
was procured, and that they now held the shares, or Haas
held the same for them; that of this sum of $1200 the sum
of $750 was retained by the bank and applied to the payment
of the plaintiff's debt to it, and the remaining $450 waq
applied by his wife in paying his small debts; that the plaintiff, on recovering from his intoxication, gave notice to all the
defendants of his intention to bring this suit as soon as. he
should be able to repay to Haas the sum of $1200; but that
the plaintiff, although he had used every effort to obtain
money for that purpose, had been unable to obtain it, and had
not now the pecuniary ability to repay that sum ; that the
only available means to which he could look for raising it
were the interests and shares aforesaid in the mining company, fraudulently forced from him by the pretended transfer;
and that if the plaintiff were now able to repay the $1200 to
Haas, he could not do so, because Haas had left the Territory
to reside elsewhere.
The complaint concluded by praying judgment that the
transfer to Haas be declared void, and be cancelled; that the
80,000 shares of stock and said interests therein be adjudged
to be the plaintiff's property; that so much thereof-be sold by
order of the court as should be sufficient to yield 81200 and
interest from the date of the transfer, and that sum be paid to
Haas; that the mining company be directed to issue the rest
of those shares and interests to the plaintiff, and be restrained
from issuing them to any other person; and that the other
defendants restore to the plaintiff any certificates thereof in
their hands, and be restrained from receiving. any more, and
account to him for any part that they had disposed of.

THACKRAH v. HAAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants severally demurred to the complaint as stating no cause of action, the demurrers were sustained and the
complaint dismissed by the courts of the Territory, and the
plaintiff appealed to this court.
.r.

. D. Hoge for appellant.

No appearance for appellees.
11r. JUSTICE GrAY, after stating the case as above repoied,
delivered the opinion of the court.

No opinion of the court below and no brief or argument for
the appellee having been submitted to us, it is not easy to conjecture the ground upon which the demurrers were sustained.
By the statutes of Utah, there is, for the enforcement or
protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention of
private wrongs, but one form of action, commenced by complaint, to which the defendant may demur or answer. If
there be no answer, the relief cannot exceed that demanded in
the complaint; in any other case, the court may grant any
relief consistent with the case made by the complaint and
embraced within the issue. Compiled Laws of Utali of 1876,
ยง 1226, 1247, 1263, 1374.
The complaint in the present case is in the nature of a bill
in equity against a mining corporation, a bank, and two individuals, alleging that while the plaintiff was in -such a state of.
intoxication as not to be in his right mind or cap.ble-of transacting any business or entering into any contract, the defefidants, knowing his condition, fraudulently extorted from him
for the sum of $1200 a transfer to one of those persons, for
the benefit of the other and of the bank, of his interests, worth
$80,000, in shares to that amount in the mining corporation;
and praying for a cancellation of the transfer, for a sale of
enough of the interests transferred to repay the $1200, for the
issue of the rest by the mining company to the plaintiff, for
the restoration to him by the other defendants of any certificates in their hands, and for an account and an injunction.
It cannot be doubted that this was such a case of fraud as

