HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.

and the rate in respect to corporations of other States being
higher than she imposes upon her own corporations of the
same class. Such legislation would be a species of commercial
warfare by one State against the others, and would be hostile
to the whole spirit of the Constitution, particularly the Fourteenth Amendment, securing to all persons within the jurisdiction of the respective States the equal protection of the laws.
For the reasons which have been stated, I feel obliged to
withhold my assent to the opinion and judgment of the court.

HO:ME INSURANCE COMPANT v. Nq-EW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 25, 26, 1886.-

Decided November 15, 1886.

The State of New York by statute imposed a tax upon the "corporate
franchise or business" of corporations within the State, of one quarter
mill upon the capital stock for- each one per cent. of dividend of six
per cent. or over. The Home Insurance Company claimed exemption
from this tax upon so much of its capital as. was invested in bonds of
the United States which, by the acts of Congress under which they were
issued, were exempt from State taxation. In a proceeding to enforce
the collection of the tax, the Supreme Court of New York gave judgment for its recovery, which judgment was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of that State. This court affirms the judgment by a divided
court.

This was a proceeding commenced in the Supreme Court of
New York to recover a tax imposed upon the plaintiff in error
under the provisions of the Act of the Legislature of that State
of Tun, 1, 1880, Laws of 1880, c. 542, as amended by the
Act of May 26, 1881, Laws of 1881, c. 361. The following
are the material provisions of the Act of 1881 relating to the
controversy.
"SETIOnX 1. Chapter five hundred and forty-two of the laws
of eighteen hundred and eighty, entitled 'An act to provide
for raising taxes for the use of the State upon certain corpoVOL. CXIX-9

OCTOBER TERMH,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

rations, joint-stock companies and associations,' is hereby
amended so as to read as follows:
'§ 1. Hereafter, it shall be the duty of the president or
tJreasurer of every association, corporation or joint-stock company liable to be taxed on its corpoate fi'ctnckise o' busies.0
as provided in section three of this act, to make report in writing to the comptroller, annually, on or before the ftfteenth
day of November, stating specifically the amount of capital
paid in, the date, amount and rate per centum of each and
every dividend declared by their respective corporations, jointstock 'companies or associations, during thG year ending with
the first day of said month. In all cases where any such corporation, joint-stock company or association shall fail to make
or declare any dividend upon either its cordmon or preferred
stock during the year ending as aforesaid, or in case the dividend or dividends made or declared upon either its common or
preferred stock during the year ending as aforesaid, shall
amount to less than six per centum upon the par value of the
said common or preferred stock, the treasurer and secretary
thereof, after being duly sworn or affirmed to do and perform
the same with fidelity, according to the best of their knowledge and belief, shall, between the first and fifteenth days of
November, in each year, in which no dividend has been made
or declared as aforesaid, or in which the dividend or dividends
made or declared upon either its common or preferred stock
amounted to less than six per centmun upon the par value of
said common or preferred stock, estimate and appraise the
capital stock of such company upon which no dividend has
been made or declared, or upon the par value of which the
dividend pr dividends made or declared amounted to less than
six per centum, at its actual value in cash, not less, however,
than the average price which said stock sold for during said
year; and when the same shall have been so truly estimated
ana appraised, they shall forthwith forward to the comptroller
a certificate thereof, accompanied by a copy of their said oath
In the Act of 1880 the words "corporate franchise or business" read
"capital stock."

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.

or affirmation, by them signed, and attested by the magistrate
or other person qualified to administer the same; provided,
that if the comptroller is not satisfied with the valuation so
made and returned, he is hereby authorized and empowered
to make a valuation thereof and to settle an account upon the
valuation so made by him for the taxes, penalties and interest
due the State thereon; and any. association, corporation or
joint-stock company dissatisfied with the account so settled,
may within ten days appeal therefrom to a board conmsting of1
the .secreta~ry of state, attorney-general and state treasmrer
which board, on such appeal, shall affirm -or correct the account so settled by the comptroller, and the decision of said
board shall be final; but such appeal shall not stay proceedings unless the full amount of the taxes, penalties and interest
as due on said account, as settled by the comptroller, be deposited with the state treasurer.'
' 3. Every corporation, joint-stock company or association
whatever, now or hereafter incorporated or organized under
any law of this State,

.

.

.

shall be subject to and pay a

tax, as a tax,vlon its eoiToratefranchiseor biusness,2 into the
treasury of this State, annually, to be computed as follows:
If the dividend or dividends made or declared by such corporation, joint-stock company or association during any year
ending with the.first day of November amount to six or more
than six per centum upon the pa.r value of its capital stock,
then the tax to be at the rate of one-quarter mill upon the
capital stock for each one per centum of dividend sc mnade or
declared; or if no dividend be made or declared, or if the
dividends made or declared do not amount to six per centum
upon the par value of said capital stock, then the tax to be at
the rate of one and one-half mills upon each dollar of a valuation of the said capital stock made in accordance with the provision of the first section of this act, and in case any such
corporation, joint-stock company or association shall have
I In the Act of 1880 the words from "a board, i to "treasurer" read "the
board of equalization."
2 The words "as a tax upon its corporate franchise or business" are not
in the Act of 1880.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement ol Facts.

more than one kind of capital stock, as for instance common
and preferred stock, and upon one of said stocks a dividend or
dividends amounting to six or moie than six per centum upon
the par value thereof, has been made or declared, and upon
the other no dividend has been made or declared, or the dividend or dividends made or declared thereon amount to less
than six per centum upon the par value thereof, then the tax
shall be at the rate of one quarter-mill for each one per centum
of dividend- made or declared upon the capital stock, upon the
par value of which the dividend or dividends made or declared
amount to six or more than six per centum, and in addition
thereto tax shall be charged at the rate of one and one half
mills upon each dollar of a valuation, made also in accordance
with the provisions of this act, of the capital stock upon which
no dividend was made or declared, or upon the par value of
which the dividend or dividends made or declared did not
amount to six per centum.""
Ai "Agreed Case" was made pursuant to the Code of New
York, presenting State questions for determination, and also
a Federal question. The parts of the Case which relate to the
latter question are as follows:
"I. The Home Insurance Company is, and for more than a
year prior to November 1, 1881, had been, a domestic fire
insurance company..
"1I. The capital stock of the Home Insurance Company at
all times during the year ending \ovember 1, 1881, was
$3,000,000, divided into thirty thousand shares of the par
value of one hundred dollars each, all full paid.
"III. In the month of January and also in the month of
Jifly, 1881, a dividend of $150,000 nas declared by the said
compary. These were the only dividends declared or made during the year ending November 1, 1881, and amounted to ten
per centum upon the par value of bhe capital stock thereof.
" IV. During the year 1881 the said company had part of its
capital invested in bonds of the United States, being obligations of the United States, which, by the acts of Congress under
which they are issued, are exempt from State taxation, viz.; on
January 1, 1881, and when the dividend was declared in that

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. ,EW

YORK.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

month it held such bonds of the par value of $3,300,000; on
the first day of July, 1881, and when the dividend was declared in that month, and on November 1, 1881, and when the
report hereinafter mentioned was made, it held such bonds of
the par value of $1,940,000.
",
V. On or before November 15, 1881, the report described
in § 1 of c. 542 of the laws of 1880, as amended by c. 361
of the laws of 1881, was duly made to the then comptroller of
the State of New York, on behalf of the said company.
"VI. Within fifteen dayf after January 1, 1882, the Home
Insurance Company tendered to the then comptroller of the
State of New York a tax at the rate of one and one quarfer
mills per cent. upon the sum of $1,060,000. The said tender
was rejected by the said comptroller.

.

.

. The said company

has ever since been and now is ready and willing to pay the
amount so tendered to the said comptroller if it shall be adjudged that -said Acts of 1880 and 1881 are valid in respect of
the tax herein controverted.
The Home Insurance Company claims: . . . (2.) That so
much of the laws of New York as may require a tax to lie paid
upon the capital stock of the said company, without deducting,
from the amount so to be paid a sum, bearing the same ratio
thereto as the amount of the paid-in capital stock of the said
company, invested in bonds of the United States, bears to the
total amount of the paid-in capital stock of the said company,
is unconstitutional and void."
The Supreme Court of New York at General Term adjudged
that the company was liable to pay the tax. This judgment
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 92 N. Y. 328. The
case was remanded to the Supreme Court and final judgment
entered there in accordance with the decision and mandate of
the Court of Appeals. This writ of error was sued out to
review that final judgment.
.J'l'. Benjamin, H Briqtow for plaintiff in error. X,;. David
Wilox was with him on the brief.
No tax can be imposed upon that part of defendant's capital
invested in United States bonds. A State cannot burden the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

operations of the national government by taxing its bonds
without its consent. .XeCulloch v. iatylarnd,4 Wheat. 316,
436; WVestoa v. Ckarleston, 2 Pet. 449; Banks v. Mayor,
7 Wall. 16; People v. Commissioners, 90 N. Y. 63. A tax
upon the capital of a corporation is a tax upon the property in
which the capital is invested. No part of the capital invested
in United States bonds, therefore, is taxable. This is fully
established in this court. Bank of Commerce v. XVew york,
2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200. If, then, this be
a tax upon capital, it is without application to the part of the
capital stock of plaintiff in error invested in United States
bonds.
Whether or not this is a tax upon capital is to be determnined, not by the form of the statute, 'but by its -effect.
When the statute was first enacted the legislature merely.
imposed the tax. The following year -it inserted the definition thereof "as a tax upon corporate franchise. or business."
But if the tax is, in its nature and effect, a tax upon capital, it
is none the less so because of this amendment declaring it to
be a tax upon franchise or business. The question is whether
or not the tax is such as the legislature can impose. This
obviously must be decided by the courts irrespective of any
declaration as to the character of the tax by the legislature
itself.
In Brown, v. .iaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, a State statute
required all importers of foreign goods to take out a license
and pka a fee. The court held that this was a regulation of
commerce. ,The same in substance was ruled in Ward v.
.raryland, 12 Wall. 418; Welton, v. Dissouri, 91 U. S. 275 ;
TVebber v. VTirginia, 103 U. S. 344; and Walling v. .Xichigan,
116 U. S. 446.
In Smith v. Turnwr (Passenger Cases), 7 How. 283, a State
statute provided that the health officer of 'the port of New
York should collect from the masters of vessels a certain sun
for each passenger. The moneys were to be used in supporting the Marine Hospital. Yet this was held to be a regulation of commerce,
In Henderson v. .Mayor of _Aw :
York, 92 U. S.259, a State

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

statute provided that the owners of steamers.bringing passengers from foreign ports should give a bond for each passenger
against his becoming a public charge, or, at their option, make
a cash payment. It was claimed that, as the object of the
provision was not taxation but protection against pauperism,
it was valid as within the police power. But the court held
otherwise. And to the same effect are Czy .' ng v. Freeman,
92 U. S. 275; Inman Steamrslp Co. v. Tinker, 94 U. S. 238;
(6ookv. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; and Triansoortatioa Co.
v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691.
In the 3Tatter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, a statute provided
that the manufacture of tobacco in any form on any floor in a
tenement house was prohibited, if any part of such floor was
occupied by any persons as a residence, and violation thereof
was declared a misdemeanor. The act was entitled, "An act
to improve the public health by prohibiting the manufacture
of tobacco in any form in tenement houses in certain cases."
It was contended that this violated the constitutional provision that no person shall be deprived of his property without
due process of law. In answer to this it was claimed tha the
law was an exercise of the police power. The court held that
the declaration contained in the statute was not conclusive
upon the subject.
See to the same effect Almy v. California,24 How. 169;
Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; Cummings v. .Ilissouri, 4 Wall.
277, 325; Crandallv. ievadat, 6 Wall. 35 ; State Fregiht Tax,
15 Wall. 232; Railroad Co. v. THusen, 95 U. S. 465; Telegraph
Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460.; 3foran v. lAew Od'leans, 112 U. S.
69; Kentucky Railroad Tae Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 337; Pullman Soutite'r Car Co. v. AYolan, 22 Fed. Rep. 276, 281; Peofple v. Allen., 42 N. Y. 404, 413; 3Tatter of Deansille Cemetery
Association,, 66 N. Y. 569. Clearly, therefore, the declaration
hy the legislature that this is a tax on franchise or business is
not controlling.
The statute has not the effect of imposing a tax upon franchise or business. The modes in which the franchises of a
corp6ration may be taxed are clearly defined. It may be
done by imposing a fixed sum, or "a graduated contribution

OCTOBER TERAM,

1886.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

proportioned either to the value of the privileges granted, or
to the extent of their exercise, or to the results of such exercise." State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284;
-DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 231. These provisions
of the act do not impose a fixed sum. Nor do they impose a
contribution proportioned to the extent of the exercise of the
franchise-to the amount of business done. That species of
tax is imposed by § 5 of the same act. But these provisions
do not refer to the amount of the business in any way. Is
this, then, "a contribution proportioned to the value or results
of the privileges granted" ?
The franchise is "the right to use the tangible property in
a special manner for the purposes of gain." State Railroad
Tax Cases, 92 V. S. 575. It is itself a part'of the property of
the corporation but quite distinct and separate from its tangible property. Gordon v..Apl)eal Tax Court, 3 How. 133, 150;
Wilrington, Railroad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 264, 265. It is a
thing "capable of appraisal and ascertainable by evidence, and
is frequently made the subject of taxation by the sovereign
power. It is a right separate and distinct from the capital
and moneyed assets of a corporation, and as to the value of
which they furnish no evidence." Conaugttyv. Saratoga.Bank',
92 :N. Y. 401. See to the same effect TV-eazie Bankv. Ffenno,
8 Wall. 533, 541, 547; -fonroe Savnings Bank v. Roehestcr., 37
N. Y. 365, 367; Porterv. PoeZford &e. Railroad Co., 76 Ill.
561, 578. Its value is readily ascertained. It is determined
by subtracting from the total actual value of the capital stock
the total value of all items of property other than franchise.
The remainder is, of course, the value of the franchise. This
method has the approval of this court. Stafe Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 600-607. It is approved elsewhere as
well. pring Valley WoMrk' v. Sehottler, 62 Cal. 69, 117 ; Burke
v. Badlam, 57 Cal. 594; San Josd Company v. January, 57
Cal. 614. Here neither the value of this part of the property
of the corporation nor the results of its use are in any way
ascertained.
It is claimed that this is a tax upon the franchise or its
results upon the ground that the tax is measured by the profits

HOM1E INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argumont for.Plaintiff in Error.

resulting from the use of the franchise -by the capacity of
the company to declare dividends. This is clearly erroneous.
The tax is a percentage upon that part of defendant's income
which it has distributed in dividends-its net income or
profits -without
discrimination as to the source thereof.
This, of course, is a tax upon the property from which the
income arises. Bank of Xentucly v. Commonwealth, 9 Bush,
46; Opinions of Jstices, 53 N. H=.634; Peole v. Cormnis&!oners of Taxes, 90 N. Y. 63; Feston v. CMarleston, 2 Pet.
449, 472, 475, 478. But the franchise is only one part of defendant's property. It is only in part the source of the dividends or net profits. They are the product of all the property.
Indeed, from the franchise without the other property no dividends or profits could possibly .be made. This tax upon the
entire amount of such dividends or profits is, therefore, a tax
upon the value or result of the franchise only to the same extent and in the same manner that it is a tax upon the value or
result of every other item of defendant's property including its
United States bonds. And, as it includes property not taxable, it cannot be sustained as a tax on the franehse. Santa
Cara County v. Sqouthior, Pavie -Railroad,118 U. S. 394.
But the State claims that this court is already 'committed to
the view that this is a tax upon franchise. And the court
below placed its decision chiefly upon this ground. The caseg
relied upon are: &ociety fo &zuings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594;
Provident Institution, v. .Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 61L; and
174milton Co: v. Maw} chett&, 6 Wall. 632.
These cases were decided upon two grounds. (1) It was
held, that a tax consisting of a percentage upon the deposits
made with a savings bank, is a tax upon its franchise or
business, and not a tax upon the property in which such
deposits may be invested after they are received. (2):It was
held, further, that the decision of the State court, although
criticised in.one of the cases as "founded in unsubstantial
distinctions," was binding upon this court. Whatever.may
be thought of the soundness of this, (see Zoui'vilie amd
.NasAvile Ral'oad v. Palines, 109 U. S. 244,) it has no
present application; for it is not sought to sustain the pres-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ent tax by any decision of the courts of the State construing
the statute by which it is imposed.
The former ground, it has been claimed, controls the
present case. Clearly this cannot be so. The question now
involved is entirely different. There the tax was a percentage upon the deposits, "simply the sums received, wholly
irrespective of the disposition made of the same." 6 Wall.
627. The liability arose by reason of the receipt of the deposit. It was quite immaterial what became of the money
after it was received. That and that alone was selected by
the legislature for taxation at a percentage of the amount
received. The statute contemplated or related to nothing
occurring thereafter. These were the considerations which
led the court to hold that the tax was laid upon the franchise or business of receiving money on deposit- upon "the
extent to which they, (the banks,) had exercised the privileges granted by their charters." 6 Wall. 632.
In the present case the tax is not measured by the
the volume of its
moneys received by defendant -by
business, the extent to which it has exercised its franchise;
but it is a percentage compounded of two factors, the capital
and the dividends. That is to say, it is measured by defendant's permanent investment in the business and the net profits
realized from its entire property. Until profits are acquired
there can be no tax. The tax is measured solely by their
amount. Clearly, the ultimate burden rests upon the property of defendant invested in part in United States securities.
That, therefore, is the subject of the tax. State .Zveigl/t T,
Case, 15 Wall. 232.
The decision that eyen a tax consisting of a percentage
upon all sums received by a savings bank was a tax upon
franchise, was arrived at by a majority of the court, and in
the face of emphatic dissent by three of the judges. That
decision, therefore, should not be regarded as expressing the
views of the court, save in cases identical in-their facts.
A[uch less can it be regarded as committing the court to the
view that a tax upon the defendant which is a percentage
upon its capital and surplus earnings distributed as dividends,

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argument for,Plaintiff in Error.

is a tax upon corporate franchise. On the contrary, the
court repeated in those cases the rule laid down in the Bank
Tax Case that "a tax levied under a law of the state" enacting that corporations shall "be liable to taxation on a valuation equal to the amount of their capital and their surplus
earnings (is) a tax on the property of the cdrporation." 6
Wall. 629. These authorities, therefore, are wholly without
present application. Neither upon principle nor authority
has the statute the effect of imposing a tax upon franchise or
business.
This is, in fact, a tax upon capital at its actual value, and
therefore does not apply to that part of defendant's capital
invested in United States bonds. It is clear from an examination of the statutes that the place where the capital is employed-not the place where the franchises are grantedcontrols the amount of the tax.
Unless the tax is on capital, the statute must have most
incongruous and unequal effects. For the purposes of the tax,
corporations are of three classes: (1) those which have paid less
than six per cent. dividends; (2) those which have paid six per
ceit. ; and (3) those which have paid more than six per cent..
In the case of corporations paying less than six per cent. the
act provides that there shall be a tax upon the "actual value"
of their capital. It is settled that a tax in that form is a tax
upon the property, in which the capital is invested, and that
corporations upon which it is imposed are entitled to deduct
their United States bonds from the amount of the assessment.
Bank of Cormiieece v. ._Yew Y '
k,2 Black, 620; RaZ Taxo
C1se, 2 Wall. 200. ,But if the tax upon corporations paying
six per cent. or more be a franchise tax, such corporations will
not be entitled to the deduction for their United States bonds
to which those paying less than six per cent. are entitled. Still
further, where a corporation has paid less than six per cent.
upon its cor4mon stock and that amount or more upon its preferred stock, it will be entitled to exemption as to its common
stock for the amount of its capital invested in United States
bonds, but not as to its preferred stock, although all its capital
may be so invested.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Flain fif in Error.

If, on the other hand, the tax be a tax upon capital, the
statute leads to no such incongruous and unequal results.
The graduated tax results in a rule which works uniformly in
all cases. Each corporation is taxed as nearly as may be on
the actual value of its capital stock, both common and preferred.
The court below meets this argument by saying that the legislature has power to impose unequal taxes. This may be so.
But the same court had already laid down the rule that in
matters of taxation "it is a sapred duty to impose the burdens
equally, and to enforce the maxim of law and ethics that equality is equity." People v. Cornmnis8ionersof Taees, 76 N. Y. 64,
11. "Equality of taxation is a fundamental principle of our
government which no legislation, in the absence of the most
explicit provisions, will be presumed to have intended to viowezo
Tor'h, 20 Barb. 81, 88,
late." People v. SuPervisors of
S. C. affirmed, 16 N. Y. 424. That, doubtless, is the principle
of construction to be followed here. The court will, if possible, construe the statute so as to impose its burden justly and
equally. Especially should this be so when the opposite construction is sought solely for the purpose of imposing a burden
upon property which this court has uniformly held to be exempt from taxation by the States.
The statute itself admits of no construction other than that
which will produce this result. The tax is a percentage upon
the capital. The amount of this percentage varies. But the
,subject-matter taxed remains the same. The rate of tax increases or diminishes with the rate of dividend. There is no
method of determining, with absolute exactness, the actual
value of the capital stock of a corporation during any considerable period. But no surer standard can be suggested than
its results during thatperiod- the dividends which it has
earned. Osioeqo Star'c ^qectory v...Dolloway, 21 N. Y.449;
Comrnonweadh v. .evdland &o¢..lailroacl, 29 Penn. St. 370;
.ehigh Crane Ir on Co. v. ommadwealth, 55 Penn. St. 448.
A tax varving in prop'rtion tb the atividends must vary in
proportion to the actual value kf the capital stock. The provisions of this statute have been judicially construed in accord-

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ance with these views. They were copied literally from a
statute of Pennsylvania, Laws of 1879, p. 114, § 4, and have
long existed there in the same substantial form: -Laws of 1844,
p. 498, § 33; 1859, p. 529; 1868, p. 109, § 4. It is well settled
there that they impose a tax upon the property of the corpora-,
tion, TWestchester Co. v. County of Che.qter, 30 Penn. St. 232;
Laekawanna Co. v. Zuzerne County, 42 Penn. St. 424, 430;
Phuxnix l'on Co. v. Commonwealth, 59 Penn. St. 104; Commonwealth v. Pittsb rg, For't Wayne &c. Railroad,74 Penn.
St. 83; Catawissa Co.'s .Aoeal, 78 Penn. St. 59; Coatesville
Gas Co. v. County of Cester, 97 Penn. St. 476, 481; and that
the dividend of profit earned by the stock is but a means
of ascertaining its value. lehigh Co. v. Commonwealth, 55
Penn. St. 448, 451 ; Commonwealt v.-Standard Oil Co., 101
Penn. St. 119. The Pennsylvania statute was before this
court in Gloester Fermj Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196,
and was then regarded as imposing "a tax upon the capital"
of corpordtions affected. The act comes precisely vithin the
rulMs laid down above in Bank of Commerce v. _Atew .Yor7, 2
Black, 620, and the Ba/nk Tax Caos',s, 2 Wall. 200. Indeed, the
tax in the latter case possessed in a much greater degree than
the present, the character of a tax upon franchise. For there
the tax was upon the amount of the stock. Even if, by reason
of losses, the capital had possessed little or no vanue, it would
equally have been taxable. But here, as has been shown, the
tax depends entirely upon the actual value.
If, however, defendant be taxable upon the blsis of its
entire capital, including the bonds, the tax is repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the Unfed
States.
It is provided by the Fourteenth Amendment that no "State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." And the defendant
is a person within the meaning of this provision. County of
Santa Clara v. Southern Paciyei Railroad, 118 U. S.394;
County of San .Mateo v. Southern Pacific Railroad,13 Fed.
Rep. 722, 747, 748, 762.

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Inequality of taxation is such a denial of equal protection.
This was ruled in Strauder v. Ifest Virginia, 100 U. S. 303;
Erekmnge B nk v. Hines, 3 Ohio St. 1; People v. IWeaver,
100 U. S. 539; Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200.
It is suggested that the legislature has power to classify
corporations for purposes of taxation. No doubt it may.divide
them into as many classes as the different pursuits followed
by them may require. RailroadTax 6ases, 92 U. S. 575. ]lut
there can be no classification by arbitrary rules among those
engaged in the same business, in the same .locality. There can
be no subdivisions merely according to wealth or prosperity.
This does not satisfy the requirement of uniformity. These
rules are well established. See Gilman v. Sheboygan, 2 Black,
510; Albany ity Bank v. J.faher, 9 Fed. Rep. 884; County
of Santa Clara v. Southern Pacific R ailroad, 18 Fed. Rep.
385, 396, 409, 439; _Dundee Co. v. School .District, 19 Fed.
askington; _Jfills, 11 Allen, 268; Stuart
Rep. 359; Oliver v.
v. Pablme, 74 N. Y. 183, 189; State v. Readington Townshp,
36 N. J. L. 66, 7O; Lexington v. 2IkQuillnw, 9 Dana, 513;
S. C 35 Am. Dec. 159; Howell v. Bristol, 8 Bush, 493, 498;
-Attorney General v. TT-n'nebago Co., 11 Wis. 34, 42; N1'ew
Orleans v. Jfome ]rs. Co., 23 La. Ann. 449; ITn re Ah Fong,
3 Sawyer, 144, 145; Al iZow v. iVu'nan, 5 Sawyer, 552;
Parott's Gase, 6 Sawyer, 349 ; Louisville & 2Yashville Railroadv. Railroad Commissioners, 19 Fed. Rep. 679.
Upon principle the rule in regard to uniformity of taxation
upon franchises must be the same as in regard to taxes upon
any other property. There can be no more reason why arbitrary distinctions should be made between persons owning
that species of property than between the owners of property
of any other dnd. And it is so held. County of Sanv ilfateo
-:. Southern Pacific Riailroad,9 Sawyer, 238; PortlandBank
v. Aptho',p, :12 M1ass. 252, 258; Co2monwealth v. Peaole'.
Savings Bank, 5 Allen, 428, 431; Oliver v. WasThington fTills,
11 Allen, 268; Orleans Parishv. Cochran, 20 La. Ann. 373;
Zouisianva v. .2erchants' lns. Co., 12 La."Ann. 802; East St.
Louis v. Jiehriunq, 46 li. "392!.
If, then, the tax. upon this .efendant be a tax upon fran-

HOIE INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

chise, the statute is unconstitutional. It denies to defendant
equal protection of the laws.
If this tax e upheld, the exneption from State taxation of
United States bonds in the hands of corporations, is practically
gone. Adopting the forn of this statute and calling the tax
a tax upon franchise or business, any State may impose a tax
to be computed upon the capital at whatsoever rate it sees fit.
For "it must always be remembered that, if the right to
impose a tax at all exists, it is a right which in its nature
acknowledges no limits." Bank of Commerce v. -New York2 Black, 620. And such tax must be paid, although all the
capital be invested in United States bonds. Surely this court
will not suffer the-great principle of public policy that the
States have no power, by "taxation or otherwise, to retard,
impede, burden or in any manner control the operations of the
national government-" . cCulloo/i v. .faryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 436 ; lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 77,-to be thus
lightly frittered away.
_Mr. Denis O'Brien, !Pt-ney General of lNew Yop'k, for
defendant in error.
I. The tax imposed upon the plaintiff in error was a tax
upon its franchises and not upon. its prop~rty or capital stock.
Prior to the passage of the Acts of 1880 and 1881, corporations were assessed and taxed in N ew York upon their capital
stock. It was the intention of the legislature by these acts
to formulate a new and distinct scheme of taxatiori for all the
corporate, associate, or joint stock bodies included within the
terms of its provisions.
The law of 1881, on which this question arises, recognfizes
the clear distinction which must be made in a legislz 1.ve
scheme 6f taxation where United States securities are owned
by the corporation taxed. The law distinctly states that the
plaintiff in ,rror shall pay a tax as a tax upon its corporate
franchise or business, into the treasury of the State ann.ually,
and then provides the method of computation.
Franchises are special privileges conferred by government
upon individuals; no franchise can be held which is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

derived from a law of the State.

Ban7 of Augusta v. Eare,

13 Pet, 519, 595.
The State -may impose taxes upon the corporation as an
entity existing under its laws, as well as upon the capital
stock of the corporation, or its separate corporate property;
-and the manner in which its value shall be assessed, and the
rate of taxation, however -arbitrary or capricious, are mere
matters of legislative discretion. Te .DelawareRailroad Tax,
18 Wall. 206. Nothing can be more certain in legal decision
than that the privileges and franchises of a private corporation
. . may be taxed by a State for the support of the State
government. Authority to that effect resides in the State
independent of the Federal government. Societfor Savings
v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; State RZailroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
575.
The tax in question is a franchise tax because it is immaterial as to the value of the property of the corporation, and
because it is immaterial as to the value of its capital stock.
The'amount of the tax does not depend upon the whole tax to
be raised in the State; the assessment is made on the value
of the franchise conferred, and is measured by the dividend
paying power. The capital stock is simply used as a basis ior
computation.
The plaintiff in error is a domestic corporation; it exists by
the laws of the State of New York; its residence is therein;
there LLthe situs of its capital stock and franchises. It cannot
be seriously contended that the State may not tax it in some
'form. It has chosen. this method, and its action is final. This
tax, therefore, being a tax upon the franchise of the plaintiff,
it matters not hoW its capital stock or property may be invested, wheiher in United States securities or otherwise. _Peole "v. The Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244; lSational Banwk
v. Cornmonuealth,9 Wall. 353 ; Van Allen v. The Assessors,
3 Wall. 573.
But we are not without the decision of this court upon.thie
question. A savings-.'ank invested part of its deposits in
securities of' th United State§, declared by Congress to be.
exempt from taxatiowby St'ate authority. The State of Con-

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

necticut required savings societies to pay three quarters of One
per cent. on the total amount qf deposits on a given day. It
was held that such tax was on the franchise and not on property; that it was valid; that the society was not exempt
from taxation to the extent of the deposits so invested. Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594.

Under a similiar statute a savings bank in Massachusetts,
which had part of its deposits invested in Federal securities,
was held liable to a tax on -ccount of such deposits. _Provident Institution v. .Jassaehusetts, 6 Wall. 611. A statute of
Massachusetts required corporations having a capital stock
to pay a tax of a certain percentage upon the excess of the
market value of all sucr stock over the value of its real estate
and machinery. The Hamilton County Manufacturing Company showed that the cash market value of its capital stock
did not exceed by more than $263,997 the value of its real
estate and machinery, provided that the amount of securities
of the United States was not included. The State taxed the
whole amount of excess, including the amount of Federal
securities. It was held that the tax was upon the franchise
of the company and was lawful. Hfavmiltoa Co. v. _3lassachu.etts, 6 Wall. 632,
The 1 ank Tafxtase of New York expressly distinguishes
-tween a property and a franchise tax. Bank Tax Case, 2
all. 200.
IL The tax in question being upon the franchises of the
plaintiff in error, the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution has no application.
There is nothing in this case showing an unequal exaction.
It is true that in one sense one corporation may pay more
than another, but in a comparative sense the exaction is
equal -in proportion to their earning capacity and the valie
of their franchises they are taxed. Even were it not so, a
franchise tax is not within the rule of unifoftnity. .utcat v.
67tci(go, 10 Wall. 410. This contention is based ahnost
entirely upon a recent decision rendered in the case of County
of Sn Jateo v. Southern Pacfe Pai 'oad, 13 Fed. Rep. '722.
The county of San Mateo brought an action against the
VOT,. CXr-x-10

OCTOBER TERM, '1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Southern Pacific Railroad Company to recover State and
county ta&es assessed upon the property of the company
upon which there was a mortgage. By the laws of California whenever an individual holds property incumbered with
a mortgage, he is assessed at its value, after deducting from it
the amount of the mortgage. If a railroad company holds
property subject to a mortgage, it is assessed at its full value,
without any deduction for the mortgage. The railroad company refused to pay said taxes vl'on several grounds, one of
which was that there was a discrimination made, palpable and
gross, between the taxation of the property of the individual
and that of the corporation, and that thereby the corporation was denied the equal protection of the laws guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
The court held: (1) That private corporations '.re persons
within the meaning of the first section of the Fourteenth
Amendment. (2) That as such persons, they are entitled, so
far as their l)y'opety is concerned, to the equal protection of
the laws. (3) That this equal protection forbids unequal
exactions of any dnd, and among them that of unequal taxation. These are the main points affecting the case under consideration.
It is respectfully insisted that the broad scope given to the
first section of the Fourteenth Amendment. by this decision,
is not sustainable on principle or reason; that it was intended
simply and solely to prevent discrimination against the negroes.
In the Sla8ugtekouss Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 81, this court says:
"In the light of the history of these amendments, and the
pervading purpose of them which we have already discussed,
it is not difficult to give a meaning to this clause. The existence of laws in the States where newly emancipated negroes
resided, which discriminated with gross injustice and hardships
against them as a class, was the evil to be remedied by t us
clause, and by it such laws are forbidden.

.

'e doubt

very much whether any action of a State, not directed by way
of discrimination against the negroes as a class, or on account
of their race, will ever be held to come within the purview of
this provision."

HOME INSURANCE CO. v. NEW YORK.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

But conceding, for the sake of argument, that the adoption
of the Fourteenth Amendment has restricted the States in the
exercise of the taxing power, that decision in no way affects
the power of the State to classify the property within its
jurisdi,'tion for the purpose of taxation. The statutes of New
York simply aggregate certain corporations into one class of
taxpayers, and impose upon them a tax which is uniform as
to the whole class. It is sufficient that the tax imposed be
uniform and equal as to the class upon which it operates.
State PRailroad Tam Cases, 92 U. S.575, 611.
A State law for the valuation of property and the assessment of taxes thereon, which provides for the classification of
property, subject to its provisions, into different classes, which
makes for one class one set of provisions as to modes and
methods of ascertaining the value and as to right of appeal,
and different provisions for another class as to those subjects,
but which provides for the impartial application of the same
means and methods to all the constituents of each class, so
that the law shall operate equally and uniformly on all persons
in similar circumstances, denies to no person affected by it
"equal protection of the laws," within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Coistitution. Kentucky Railroad Tax Caes, 115 U. S. 321.
But the San Mateo case is a direct authority for the imposition of the tax in this case. Thete the tax was one on pro,-erty
- here one on thefanehises. "Taxation on busiae s in tlh¢
form of licenses may vary according to the calling or occupa
tion licensed, and the extent of business transacted." 13 Fed.
Rep. '37. The distinction is well pointed out by Mr. Justice
Clifford, in his opinion in Providnt ]Institittiofl v.

sefts, 6 Wall. 611, 631. "Franchise taxes are levied directlh
by an act Qf the legislature, and the corporotions are required
to pay the amount into the State treasu'y. They differ from
property taxes, as levied for state and municipal purposs,, ir,
the basis prescribed for computing the nimount, in theunanner
of assessment and in the mode of collection." The (Clifornia
decision, therefore, does not apply to this case.

