OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

PALMER v. HUSSEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE ST-ATE OF NEW YORK.
Submitted November'l, 1886.-Decided November 15, 1886.

The decision of the highest court of a State upon a motion, accompanied by
affidavits as proof, to, perpetually enjoin the collection of a judgment
obtained in a court of the State on the ground of the discharge of the
defendant in bankruptcy, raises a Federal question which may be reviewed
by this court.
.Uennequin v. Clews, Ill U. S. 676, affirmed. and followed, in holding, on
similar facts in this -case, that there was no such fraud in the creation
of the debt, and no such trust in respect to the possessiotn of the bonds,
as to bar the operation of the discharge in bankruptcy.

This was a motion to dismiss, united with a motion to
affirm. The facts which make the case are stated in the
opinion of the court.
.Jf,. S. ft.
Bower for the motions.
-Mr.A. -. S7eir opposing.
AIR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This record shows that on the 18th of April, 1874, Acalus,
L. Palmer recoyered a judgment in the Supreme Court of
New York against Erwin A. Hfussey for $32,128.57 on account
of certain bonds of the United States which had been placed
in his hands by Palmer, and for which he bound himself by a.
writing, the material part of which is as follows:
"These bonds we hold subject to the order of A. L. Palmer,
at ten days' notice, agreeing to collect the coupons for his
account free of charge, and to allow him two per cent. per
annum interest on the par value of said bonds, said interest to
commence and count June 1st, 1866; interest on the 7-30
b nds payable June and December 15th; on 5-20, May and
November 1st.
"E. A. HUSSEY & Co."

PALMER v. HUSSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

In the complaint it was alleged that the bonds "were received by the defendant from the plaintiff as his agent and
broker, in a fiduciary capacity, upon the arrangement and
agreement as contained" in the foregoing paper; "that the
said defendant without *the authority or permission of the
plaintiff, has fraudulently and wilfully sold, disposed of, and
misapplied the said bonds, and has refused to deliver up the
same to the said plaintiff, who has frequently demanded the
same from him, and given the notice so to do as required
by the agreement." This was denied in the answer. The suit
was begun September 7, 1868.
On the 20th of January, 1868, Hussey filed his petition in
bankruptcy, and was duly adjudicated a bankrupt January
24th. On the 17th of May, 1880, he received his final discharge. The record does not show when his application for
a discharge was made to the bankrupt court. On the 12th
of June, 1880, he moved the Supreme Court to perpetually
enjoin the collection of the judgment in favor of Palmer
because of his discharge. In his affidavit in support of this
motion, and which presents the grounds of the relief asked,
it is stated:
"That, among other grounds of objection to my discharge
in bankruptcy made by the plaintiff, it was charged that I
have been guilty of improper and undue delay in said proceedings. That that question was presented to the court and
fully explained, and the court decided that I was not guilty
of laches, and was entitled to my discharge."
In opposition to the motion the counsel of Pahuer filed a
counter-affidavit settng forth the grounds of defence, and,
among others, that the judgment was an adjudication that
"the bonds were received in a fiduciary capacity," and were
"fraudulently and wilfully sold, disposed of, and misapplied
by Hussey."
The Supreme Court, both at special and general term,
denied the motion on the ground that the judgment on its
face showed that the debt was created by fraud, and while
Hussey was acting in such a fiduciary capacity as to prevent
the discharge in bankruptcy from operating as a release. This
VOL. Cxix-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

order was reversed by the Court of Appeals and the execution
of the judgment perpetually enjoined, because the fraud and
trust established by the findings were not of a character to
bar the effect of. the discharge. To reverse that judgment
this writ of error was brought, whidh Hussey now moves to
dismiss because no Federal question was raised or decided,
and with this motion he has united a motion to affirm under
rule 6, § 5.
The motion to dismiss is denied. Palmer, in his affidavit,
which in this case takes the place of technical pleading, specially set up and claimed an immunity under § 5117 of the
Revised Statutes from the operation of the discharge in bankruptcy, because of the fraudulent and fiduciary character of his
debt, and the decision was against him. This gives us jurisdiction, since the exemption depends on the construction and
effect of § 5117, which provides that "no debt created by the
fraud

.

.

.

of the bankrupt, or . .

.

while acting in any

fiduciary character,. shall be discharged by proceedings in
bankruptcy." As the affidavit of Hussey set forth the date
of the adjudication in bankruptcy and the date of discharge,
the question of delay in making an application, and the
construction and effect of § 5108, may also, perhaps, have
been raised on the record. The opinion of the Court of
Appeals shows that both of these questions were actually
presented to and decided by that court. 87 N. Y. 303.
Upon the facts set forth in the affidavit of Hussey, which
are not denied in the counter-affidavit of the attorney of
Palmer, and upon the facts as they appear in the record
of the judgment to be enjoined, it is clear that, under the
ruling of. this court in Henequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676,
there was no such fraud in the creation of the debt, and no
such trust in respect to the posession of the bonds by Hussey,
as to bar the operation of the discharge.
-By § 5119 of the Revised Statutes, the certificate of discharge,
is made conclusive evidence,in favor of.the bankrupt, "of the
fact and regularity of such discharge." We must presume,
therefore, that the application was made within the time required by § 5108, or, if not, that any delay there may have

