OCTOBER TERM, ,1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Ia.

CHIEF JUSTiCE WAITE

announced that the j.adgment -of

the Supreme Court of the State of New York was

Afflrmed by a Divided Court.

SHIPMAN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. SHIPMAN.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued November 3, 1886. -Decided

November 15,1886.

Shipman did a large amount of work for the District of Columbia under a
contract, and was paid for it according to its terms. He sued the District in the Court of Claims, in equity, alleging a mistake in the contract,
asking to have it reformed, and claiming to recover a large sum. The
District answered and filed large counterclaims for alleged overpaymeuts.
The Court of Claims refused to reform the contract, but gave judgment
for Shipman in the sum of $652.11, being the balance on the adjustment
of such claims and counterclaims as were allowed by the court. See 18
C. Cl. 291. Both parties appealed. On the facts found in the record, this
court affirms the judgment of the Court of Claims.

-Mr. W. Willougby for Shipman.
.r.

Solieitor Generalfor the District of Columbia.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment in this case is affirmed. No disputed questions of law are involved, and our view's of the facts are so
well expressed in the carefully prepared opinion of the Court
of Claims found in IS'ipman v. Distriet of Columbia, 18 C.
C1. 291, that we deem it unnecessary to do more than to refer
to that opinion for the reasons of our decision. See, Appendix.

Afflrmed.

MINNEAPOLIS, &c., R'Y v. COLUMVUS R'G MILL. 14
Statement of Facts.

AMTNEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v.
COLUMBUS ROLLING MILL.
ERROR TO THE ORCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued November 12, 1886.-Decided November 29,1886.

A reply to an offer of sale, purporting to accept it on terms varying from
those offered, is a rejection of the offer and leaves it no longer open.
On December 8, A offered to sell to B 2000 to 5000 tons of iron rails on certain terms specified, adding that if the offer was accepted A would expect
to be notified prior to December 20. On December 16, B replied, directing
A to enter an order for 1200 tons, "as per your favor of the 8th." On
December 18, A declined to fulfil B's order. Held, that the negotiation
between the parties was closed, and that an acceptance by B on December 19 of the original offer didl not bind A.
The submission of a question of law to the jury is no ground of exception
if they decide it aright.

This was an action by a railroad corporation established at
Minneapolis in the State of Minnesota against a manufacturing
corporation established at Columbus in the State of Ohio;
The petition alleged that on December 19, 1879, the parties
made a contract by which the plaintiff agreed to buy of tho
defendant, and the defendant sold to the plaintiff, two thousand tons of iron rails of the weight of fifty pounds per yard,
at the price of fifty four dollars per ton gross, to be delivered
free on board cars at the defendant's rolling mill in the month
of March, 1880, and to be paid for by the -plaintiff in cash
when so delivered. The answer denied the making of the
contract. It was admittel at the trial that the following letters and telegrams were sent at their dates, and were received
in due course, by the parties, through their agents:
December 5, 1879. Letter from plaintiff to defendant:
"Please quote me prices for 500 to 3000 .tons 50 lb. steel rails,
and for 2000 to 5000 tons 50 lb. iron rails, March 1880 delivery."
December 8, 1879. Letter from defendant to plaintiff:
"Your favor of the 5th inst. at hand. We do not make steel
rails. For iron rails, we will sell 2000 to 5000 tons of 50 lb.

