HALSTED v. BUSTER.
Statement of Facts.
YM,. CHIEF JmTIcE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment in this case is affirmed on the authority of
.Loonrey v. The Di.tiet of Columbia, 113 U. S. 258. It having been found as a fact by the court below that no mistake
had been made in reducing the contract to writing, no questions are presented in this court on that branch of the case.
Ajfbfmed.

HALSTED e. BUSTER.
ERROR TrO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF

VEST VIRGINIA.

Argued November 23, 186.-Decided December 13, IS.

When the jurisdiction of a circuit court of the United States in an action
at law depends upon the citizenship of the parties to the suit, the declaration must show the necessary relative citizenship.
When the judgment of the court below is reversed by reason of thilure of
the pleadings to show the citizenship necessary to give jurisdiction, it is
within the discretion of that court, on the case coming back, to allow
amendments to cure the defect.

This was an action at law to try titp to real estate. The
declaration was as follows:
"John Hlalsted, a citizen of the city of New York and of
the State of New York, complains of William B. Buster and
Eldridge Barrett for that heretofore, to wit, on the first day
of February, 1873, the said plaintiff was possessed in fee of a
certain tract or parcel of land lying and being in the county
of Fayette and State of West Virginia, which land was conveyed by Robert Soulter, trustee, to John Hlalsted on the 0th
of June, 1804, but which land is more particularly described
in a deed from William K. Smith and Anderson G. Grinnan
to the Forest Hill Mining and Manufacturing Company, dated
on the 15th day of June, 1867, as follows, to wit [Here follows a description by metes and bounds] ; also a certain parcel

OCTOBER"TERM,- 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of land bounded on the south by the foregoing boundary, on
the north by th6 Great 9anawha River, being the westerly
'part of the Huddleston survey by a line running from the
northerly to the southerly side of the same, containing about'
one hundred acreq, being a part of the tract known hs the
Huddleston tract. And, being possessed of the whole of the
foregoing described land, the defendants afterwards, to wit,
'on the 10th day of February; 1873, entered into said premises
and unlawfully withheld from said plaintiff the possession,
thereof, tW his damage of $5000."
Defendruts pleaded not guilty. A trial was had, resulting
in a verdict or defendants, and judgment was entered on the
verdict; td review which this writ of error was sued out.
2i. A. Burlewo for plaintiff in error.
l1r. J F. Brow (Xr. T. Jollokan was with him on the
brief) for defendants in error.
Mr..

CmEF JusaO'c

WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This record does not show that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the suit, which depends alone on the citizenship of
the parties. In the declaration it is stated that Halsted, the
plaintiff, is a citizen of New York, but nothing is said of the
citizenship of the defendants. Neither is there anything in
the rest of the record to show what their citizenship actually
was. For this reason ihe judgment is reversed, but, as the
fault rests alone on the plaintiff, whose duty it wa* in bringing the suit, to make the jurisdiction appear, the reversal will
'be at his cost in this court. Hancock v. Iolbrook, 112 U. S.
229. If the citizenship of the defendants was, in fact, such
at the commencement of the suit as to give the Circuit Vourt
jurisdiction, it will be in the power of that court, when the
case gets back, to allow the necessary amendment to be made
and then proceed tb trial. This whole subject was recently
considered at the present term in Th e Continental life Ins~ur-

