OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

entitled him to relief in equity. 2 Pomeroy, Eq. Jur. §§ 914,
949.
The complaint further alleges, and the demurrer admits, that
the greater part of this sum of $1200 was retained by the
bank and applied to the payment of a debt previously due to
it from the plaintiff, and (it would seem before he recovered
from his intoxication) the rest of that sum was applied by his
wife to the payment of his small debts, and he had no means
available to raise money to repay the $1200, except the interests in the mining company, which he had been induced by
the defendants' fraud to make a transfer of. The plaintiff,
without any fault of his, being unable to repay the consideration of the fraudulent transfer, equity will not require him to do
so as a condition precedent to granting him relief, but will make
due provision, in the final decree, for the repayment of that
sum out of the property recovered. 1Reynolds v. Waller, 1
Wash. Va. 164; Allertom v. Allerton, 50 N. Y. 670; S. C., more
fully stated, in Harrisv. Equitable Assurance Society, 64 N. Y.
196, 200.
Jnudgrnent reversed, and case remanded for fsrtkerproceedings in coqfo-mity with this opinion.

BROOKS v. CLARK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED- STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Submitted November 17, 1886.-

Decided December 13, 1886.

On the 31st December, 1884, A, a citizen of Pennsylvania, sued out of a court
of that State a summons in an action on contract to recover a balance
of money lent, against B, a citizen of New York, and C, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, surviving partners of D, returnable on the 1st Monday in
January then next, and C accepted service before the return day. On
the 26th of January, 1885, judgment was entered against both defendants
for want-of defence, under the practice in that State. On the 3d February, 1885, B voluntarily appeared and accepted service with the like force

BROOKS v. CLARK:
Statement of Facts.
as if the writ had been returnable on the 1st Monday in April and had
been served on the 1st Monday in March. On May 2d, 1885, B filed hi
affidavit of defence, and immediately filed a petition for the removal of
the case to the Circuit Court of the United States, on the ground that the
controversy in the suit was between citizens of different states. The
cause being removed, it was, on motion of theplaintiff, remanded to tle
state court on the ground that it appeared by the record that defendants
were not both citizens of another state than plaintiff, and that plaintiff
was a citizen of Pennsylvania. Held, (1) That under the practice in
Pennsylvania this was a proceeding in the original suit, under the original cause of action; (2) That the controversy was not a separable one
within the meaning of the removal act of 1875; (3) That the fact that
the liability of C had been fixed by the entry of judgment against him
did not affect the principle.
A removal of a cause from a State court to a Federal court made on a petition under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, on the ground of a
separable controversy, takes the whole cause from the jurisdiction of the
state court; but a removal for the same cause under the act of 1866 may
take only the separate controversy of the petitioning defendant, leaving
the state court to proceed against the other defendants.
1Yudee v. Trase, 99 U. S. 539, distinguished.
Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205, affirmed.
Putnarm v. Ingraharn,114 U. S. 57, affirmed.

This was a writ of error brought under § 5 of the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, for the review of an order
of the Circuit Court remanding a case which had been removed from the Court of Common Pleas, No. 1, of the county
of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The facts were these:
On the 31st of December, 1884, Edward S. Clark sued out
of the Court of Common Pleas a-writ of summons against
"Charles H. Brooks and Josiah D. Brooks, surviving partners
of D. Leeds Miller, deceased, trading as Brooks, Miller & Co.,"
returnable on the first Monday of January then next. Before
the return of the writ Josiah D. Brooks endorsed thereon as

follows:
"I accept service of within writ. Josiah D. Brooks."
On the 12th day of January, 1885, Clark filed an "affidavit
of loan" in accordance with the provisions of a statute of
Pennsylvania, showing that the suit was brought for $15,000
balance due to him on the 31st of December, 1876, for moneys
lont the firm of Brooks, Miller & Co.. on which interest had

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

been paid to October 30, 1884. Appended to this affidavit
was what purported to be "a copy of account 'from defendants' books," showihg the loan and cash paid for interest.
By a statute of Pennsylvania it was lawful for the plaintiff,
"on or at any time after the third Saturday succeeding" the
return day of the writ, "on motion, to enter a judgnent by
default,

.

.

.

unless the defendant shall pieviously have

filed an affidavit of defence, stating therein the nature and
character of the same." Josiah D. Brooks did not file an
affidavit of defence within the time thus limited, and, accordingly, on the 26th of January, 1885, the following entry was
made in the cause:
"And now, on motion of Pierce Archer, Esq., the court
enters judgment against the defendants for want of an affi-"
davit of defence."
I On the same day an assessment of damages was also filed
in the cause, as follows:
"I assess damages as follows:
Real debt ....
..........
.$15,000 00
Int. from 10,0,'84 to 1, 24,'85.
210 00
$15,210 00
"J.KENDEMBINE,
yrto Prot'y."

This, according to the law and practice in Pennsylvania,
was a final judgment in the action against Josiah D. Brooks
for the amount of damages so assessed, and, accordingly, in the
docket entries this appears:
"Jan'y 26, 18S5, Judg't for want of aff. of defence against
Josiah D. Brooks only.
"1Eo die. Dam's assessed at $15,210.00."
On the 3d of February, 1885, Charles H. Brooks voluntarily
caused to be endorsed on the original summons, then in court,
the following:
"I accept service of the writ for Charles H. Brooks, with
like force and effect as if the writ had been issued ret'd to the

-BROOKS v. CLARK.
Statement of Facts.

filst Monday of April and had been served on or before the
first Monday of March, A.D. 1885.
"JoN G. Jonsox,

Att'y Ch. H Brooh."
On the second day of May, 1885, Charles H. Brooks filed in
the cause his affidavit of defence, in which he set forth, in
substance, that, until the 31st of December, 1879, he was a
member of the firm of Brooks, Miller & Co.; that previous to
that time Clark had deposited moneys with the firn, and on
that day there was due him $15,000, for which he held the
firm's due bill; that on that day Josiah D. Brooks and Miller
purchased the interest of Charles H. Brooks in the firm, paying him therefor $21,749.40, and assuming all the debts; that
the partnership was thereupon dissolved, and Clark duly notified; that immediately on the dissolution, Josiah D. Brooks
and Miller formed a new partnership, and continued the old
business; that Clark was duly notified of the assumption by
the new firm of all the debts of the old, and with this knowledge gave 'p the due bill of the old firm which he held, and
took another for the same amount from the new firm in full
satisfaction and discharge of the original indebtedness; and
that the new firm paid the interest as it thereafter accrued
umtil the time mentioned in the affidavit of loan, to wit,
October 30, 1884. On this state of facts, Charles H. Brooks
insisted, by way of defence, that he was discharged from all
liability.
Immediatily on filing this affidavit of defence Charles H.
Brooks presented a petition for the removal of the suit-to .the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, the material parts of which were as fo Uows: •
"The petition of Charles H. Brooks, defendant above named,
who was sued with Josiah D. Brooks, as surviving partners,
&c., respectfully represents: That the controversy in this suit
is between citizens of different states. That your petitioner
was at the time of the commencement of this suit, and still is,
a citizen of the state of New York, and that the said plaintiff,
a citizen of the state
Edward S. Clark, was then, and still is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for "lPlaintiff in Error.

of Pennsylvania, and that the matter and amount m dispute
in the said suit exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of
five hundred dollars."
On the 23d of May, 1885, the suit was entered by Charles
H. Brooks in the Circuit Court, and, on the 8th of September
following, Clark moved that it be remanded. Afterwards, on
the 8th of October, this motion was granted, "it appearing by
inspection of the record that the defendants are not both citizens of another state than the plaintiff, and that said Josiah
D. Brooks is a citizeif of Pennsylvania."
To reverse that order this writ of error was brought.
311. Frank P. Piichardand 3f'. John G. Jokson for plaintiff in error.
It may be well to state at the outset that appellant does not
seek to attach or qualify the recent decisions of this court that
an original joint cause of action does not become separated
into several controversies, simply because the defendants sever
in their pleadings and defences. , careful examination of the
:cases on this subject will show that they group themselves
into three classes, viz.:
First. Where no judgment has .been entered, but separate
defences have been raised by the defendants. In such cases
one defendant &tnnot remove, because the plaintiff can still
elect to treat the controversy as joint. Louisville & Nashtville Railroadv. Ide, 114 U. S. 52, is an example of this class.
Second. Where the plaintiff has entered an interlocutory
judgment by default against one defendant. In such cases
the other defendant cannot remove, because the final judgment
will still be joint, and the defendant against whom the interlocutory judgment was entered remains interested in, and will
be affected by the final judgment. _Pztnam. v. higrakam, 114
U. S. 5r, is an example of this class.
Third. Where a final judgment has been rendered against
one defendant. In such cases the othr defendant can remove.
because the defendant against whom final judgment has been
entered has been thus removed from the controversy, and is no

BROOKS v. CLARK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

longer interested in or affected by the result of the controversy
with his codefendants.
Yvlee v. Vose, 99 U. S. 539, is an
example of this class.
The distinction between these classes of cases is not an accdental one, but is a logical result of a connected and consistent
train of reasoning. Under these decisions, if before Charles
H. Brooks accepted service of summons the controveIoy had,
as to Josiah D. Brooks, been ended by a final judgment for
an ascertained sum, so that he would not be a party to, or
interested in, the result of the subsequent litigation with
Charles I. Brooks, the latter had not only a separable but a
separated" controversy which he could remove. We will, therefore, turn our attention to the only remaining question, viz.:
Was the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks a final judgment
as to him, which removed his interest in the subsequent litigation with Charles H. Brooks?
The judgment against Josiah D. Brooks was not entered
upon common law pleadings, but under special statutes of
Pennsylvania,, and was a final judgment. Sella s v. Bush, 47
Penn. St. 344; McfClung v. Jtpky,
2 Miles, 177. Under
the common law as recognized and enforced inPennsylvania.,
there could not be, in an action against two defendants on a
joint cause of action, two separate final judgments, unless it
affirmatively appeared on the record that they were upon
different issues. Plaintiff might take an interlocutory judgment against one defendant, and then proceed to obtain final
joint judgment against both; but he could not take fial judgment against one without releasing the other. Willzams v.
MlcFall, 2 S.& R. 280; Iidgely v. -Dobson,3 W. & S.118, 123.
This common law rule worked great hardship, and led to
the enactment of two statutes, one of April 6, 1830, the other
of April 4, 1877. [These statutes are quoted in the opinion of
court, post.]
Bearing these statutes in mind, we will now examine the
facts of this case. As the case stood after judgment -hadbeen
entered against Josiah D. Brooks, it was an action against two
with service on one only, and final judgment against the party
served for a determinate amount. Afterwards the other de-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

fendant, who was a resident of New .ork, appeared on the
scene. He had a separate defence, personal to himself, and
was willing to voluntarily appear to have it tried. If the act
of April 4th, 1877, above cited, had not been Vassed, it would
have been necessary for the plaintiff to have brought a new
suit in which Charles H. Brooks could have accepted service,
since the prior act of 1830 only allowed a recovery against the
defendant not served "in another suit." But as the act of
1877 had altered the law so as to allow a judgment "in the
same suit," there was no necessity for new process, and Charles
H. Brooks merely accepted service of the original summons as
if it had been issued returnable at a return day after the date
of the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks. He then filed his
affidavit of defence and his petition for removal. The case
then stood thus: -A suit against two in which one alone was
served; a final judgment against the one served for a determinate amount; a subsequent appearance of the other defendant and a separate issue with him in which he was debarred
by the act of 1877 from settingup the previous final judgment
against his codefendant. Now let us apply the principle laid
down by this court in the cases already cited. Before any service on Charles H. Brooks there had been a judicial deternination of the suit as to Josiah D. Brooks, which as to him put
an end to the controversy. That judgment could not be
affected by any subsequent judgment against his codefendalit
either in the same or in another suit. Afterwards a new controversy was put in issue by Charles H. Brooks which, whethc
in the same or in another suit, could not be affected either in
his favor or against him by the result previously reached
against his codefendant. If in this controversy a judgment
should be rendered for or against Charles H. Brooks, it would
be fbr or against him alone, and Josiah D. Brooks would not
be a party to it. This becomes very clear if we suppose that
on February 3 Charles H. Brooks, instead of appearing in the
original suit, had appeared in a new suit brought against him
on the same cause of action. No one would for a moment
pretend that this was not a separate controversy. The effect,
however; of subsequent proceedings in the same suit under the

BROOKS v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

act of 1877 is precisely the same as subsequeiit proceedings iii
a new suit under the act of 1830. In both cases there is a
final judgment as to one. In both there is a subsequent
proceeding against the other, not affected by the previous
judgment.
In this case there is no mere severance in the pleadings, leaving the plaintiff at liberty to still treat the action as a joint
one. The plaintiff has already elected to separate the controversies by taking final judgment against the defendant served
before the other defendant appeared; nor is this the case of an
interlocutory judgment by default for want of an appearance,
since the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks was a final one
for a determinate amount. It is, however, within the third
class of cases mentioned at the head of this brief, a case in
which one defendant has been separated- by a final judgment,
leaving a controversy with his codefendant to which he is no
longer a party.
It may be said that Josiah D. Brooks may appeal, but to
such appeal Charles H. Brooks would be no party. The statute allowing separate judgments must necessarily contemplate
separate appeals, which shall not interfere with the proceedings
against the other defendants. In fact, the statute has placed
such judgments in the same position as separate judgments at
common law upon different issues.
Further argument would seem to be unnecessary.
.Xlk. Pierce Archer for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusncE WmTE after stating the case as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The action as originally brought was a joint action on a
joint liability of Josiah D. Brooks and Charles H. Brooks as
partners, dnd, according to Putnam v. Ingraham, 114 U. S.
57, it was not separable, for the purposes of removal prior to
the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks, even after his default.
The question we now have to consider is, 'therefore, whether
the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks takes the case out of
that rule.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

A statute of Pennsylvania, passed April 6, 1830, provided as
follows:
"In all suits now pending or hereafter brought in any court
of record in this Commonwealth, against joint and several
obligors, copartners, promisors or the indorsers of promissory
notes, in which the writ or process has not been or may not be
served on all the defendants, and judgment may be obtained
against those served with process, such writ, process or judgment, shall not be a bar to recovery in anot/er suit against
the defendant or defendants, not served with process." 1
Brightly's Purdon's Digest, 11th ed., 953, § 43.
Another statute, passed April 4, 1877, enacted as follows:
"Where judgment has been or may hereafter be obtained
in any court of record of this Commonwealth, against one or
more of several codefendants, in default of appearance, plea
or affidavit of defence, said judgment shall not be a bar to
recovery ia the sarne &aitagainst the other defendants, jointly,
or jointly and severally liable as cobbligors, copartners, or
otherwise." lIb. 954, § 49.
By another statute, passed August 2, 1842, it was provided
that in all actions instituted against two or more defendants,
in which judgment may be entered on record at different
periods against onfe or more of the .defendants, by confession
or otherwise, the entries so made "shall be considered good
and valid judgments against all the defendants, as of the date
of the respective entries thereof, and the day of the date of the
last entry shall be recited in all subsequent proceedings by s'cire
facias or otherwise, as the date of judgment against all of
them, and judgment rendered accordingly."
And; "When an entry of judgment . . . shall be made on
the records of any court against two or more defendants, at
different periods, such entries shall operate as good and valid
judgment against all the defendants; and the plaintiff may
proceed to the collection of the money due thereon, with costs,
as if the entries had all been made at the date of the latest
entry." R. §§ 45, 46.
This is a proceeding in the original suit and on the original
cause of action. If a judgment shall be rendered against

BROOKS v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

Charles I. Brooks, it will be a judgment in the original action,
the same in all respects, except as to date, that it would have
been if he had been served with process and had put in the
same defence before the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks.
He voluntarily appeared "in the same suit" by accepting service of the original summons, but with an extension of time to
put in his personal defence. Had the same thing been done
before the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks, there could
have been no removal on the petition of Charles H. Brooks, or
on the petition of all the defendants, because the suit would
have been against the two defendants, one of whom was a
citizen of the same State with the plaintiff, and a s3parate
defence by one. This, it has often been held, would not show
or create a separable controversy, within the meaning of the
removal act. Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S. 407; Ayres v. WTiswall,
112 U. S. 187, 193; Louisville & 11"rashville Rail,oad v. Ide,
114 U. S. 52; Putnamm v. IngaoAm, 114 U. S. 57; St. -Louis,
&c.,Railway v. Wilson, 114 U. S.60 ; Pirie v. Tvedt, 115, U. S.
41 ; Starb,' v. iVew Yortk, 115 'U. S. 248, 259 ; Sloane v. A'nderson, 117 U. S.275; Fidelity is. Co. v. Huntngt n, 117 U. S.
280; Core v. final, 117 U. S.347; Plymouth .fining Co. v.
Amiaelor Canal Co., 118 U. S.265. It is true there is now no
longer any controversy upon the original cause of action with
Josiah D. Brooks, against whom a final judgment has already
been rendered, but neither was there in Putnam v. Ingrahaolv,
supra, with the defendant, Morgan, who was in default, and
made no defence. In this respect the two cases differ only in
degree, and not in kind. In this case the proceedings had gone
one step further than in the other, and the default of Josiah
D. Brooks had been fixed by the judgment. In principle,
however, the cases are alike.
Much reliance was had in argument on Fulee v. VFose, 99
U. S. 539. The petition in that case was filed under the act of
July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 306, c. 288, where only the separate
controversy of the petitioning defendant could be removed,
and the plaintiff was allowed to proceed against all the other
defendants, in the State court, as to the remaining controversies in the suit, the same as if no removal had been had.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Under that statute the suit could be divided into two distinct
parts - one removable and the other not. That which was
removable might be taken to the Circuit Court of the United
States, and that which was not removable would remain in the
State court for trial without any reference whatever to the
other. The removal had the effect of making two suits out of
one. Not so wiih the act of 1875. Under that, it was held
in Barney v. ]2tharn, 103 U. S.205, that, if a separable controversy exists, a removal for such cause takes the whole suit
to the Circuit Court, and leaves nothing behind for trial in the
State court.
In Tulee v. lTose there were several causes of action embraced in the suit-some joint against Yulee and all the other
defendants, and one against Yulee alone as the endorser of
certain promissory notes. Upon a trial, judgment had been
rendered in favor of all the defendants upon all the causes of
action. This judgment was affirmed by the highest court of
the State as to, all the causes of action, except that against
Yulee alone as endorser. As to that it was reversed and the
cause sent back for a new trial. It was under these circumstances that it was said "it appeared that the controversy, so
far as it concerned Yulee, not only could be, but actually had
been, by judicial determination, separated from that of the
other defendants;" and a removal of this controversy, thus
actually separated from the rest of the case, was directed upon
the petition of Yulee, filed after the case had been sent back for
trial as to him alone, and before the trial or final hearing, which
was in time under that statute. Upon this removal only the
separate controversy with Yulee was carried to the Circuit
Court, and the judgment in that would have no connection
whatever with the other parts of the case, which remained
undisturbed in the State court, where the record continued, so
far as they were concerned.
In the present case, however, and under the present law, as
1ruled in Barney v. Latham, supra, the whole original suit,
including the judgment against Josiah D. Brooks, must be
taken to the Circuit Court, because this is a proceeding under
the Pennsylvania statute, in that suit, to obtain a judgment

