CHICAGO & ALTON R'D v. WIGGINS FERRY CO..615
Opinion of the Court.

done so, and, so far as this record zhows, he has never been
asked to do it. Certainly it has been the prevailing custom
from the beginning for the clerk of this court, or the clerk of
the Circuit Court for the proper district, to issue the writ, and
for such a writ to be lodged with the clerk of the state court
before he could be called on to make the necessary transcript
for use in this court. Consequently, the simple lodging of the
allowance with him canot be considered as a demand for thm
writ; and, besides, this proceeding is not to require him to issue
the writ, but to furnish a transcript to be annexed to and
returned with the writ, (Rev. Stat. ยง 997,) which it is not his
duty to give until there is a writ to which it can be annexed
and with which it can be returned. The application for the
mandamus is consequently denied.
Pending these proceedings for mandamus the British and:
American Mortgage Company has filed a motion to vacate the
supersedeas allowed by Mr. Justice Woods. But, as no writ
of error has ever been issued, that order has no legal effect. A
supersedeas cannot be allowed except as an incident to an appeal
actually taken or a writ of error actually sued out. We, however, are as much without jirisdiction to vacate the order of
the Justice as he was without jurisdiction to grant it. Consequently, the motion to vacate must be denied, although the
order as it stands'is of no validity.
Both motion denied.

CHICAGO AND ALTONI RAILROAD
FERRY COMPANY.

v.

WIGGINS

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued October 22, 25, 1886. -Decided January 10, 1877.

The constitutional requirement that"' full faith and credit shall be given in
each state to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every
other state" implies that the public acts of every state shall be given the
same effect by the courts of another state that they have by la.w and
usage at home.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
Whenever it becomes necessary under Article IV, ยง 1 of the Constitution
for a court of one state, in order to give faith and effect to a public
act of another state, to ascertain what effect it has in that state, the law of
the other state must be proved as a fact.
The courts of the United States, when exercising their original jurisdiction,
take notice without proof, of the laws of the several states of the United
States; but in this court, when acting under its appellate jurisdiction,
*whateverwas matter of fact in the state court whose judgment or decree
is under review, is matter of fact here.
When the decision of a state court holding a contract valid or void is made
upon the general principles by which courts determine whether a consideration is good or bad on principles of public policy, no question
arises under the provision of the Constitution respecting the faith and
credit to be given In eaclh state to the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of another state, and this court cannot review the decision.
In order to give this court jurisdiction to review a decision of a state court
respecting the power of a corporation of another state to make contracts
it is not sufficient to aver in the pleadings that whatever force might be
given to it in the court of the forum, it was beyond the powers of the corporation under Its act of incorporation as construed by the courts of the
state incorporating it; but it must appear affirmatively in the record that
the ficts as presented for adjudication, made it necessary for the court to
consider and give effect to the act of Incorporation in view of the peculiar
jurisprudence of the state enacting It rather than the general law of the
land.

This was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. It
was submitted on the 19th April, 1886, at the last term of
court, and was ordered to be argued at the hearing on the
merits. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
fenry Hitchcock for the motion.
.Mr.
burg was with him on the brief.

Ar. G. A. Finkeln-

.3fr.C.Becvwitl opposing.
Tht. CHIEr

JusncE WA1E deliveredthe opinion of the court.

The Federal question which it is claimed arises on this record
is, whether the Supreme Court of Missouri in its judgment gax e
"full faith and credit" "to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings" of Illinois.
I The facts are these: The Wiggins Ferry Company was in-

CHICAGO & ALTON R'D t. WIGGhS FERRY CO. 617,
Opinion of the Court.

corporated by the state of Illinois in 1853, and given the
exclusive and perpetual right of- maintaining and operating a
ferry across the Mississippi River between its own lands in
East St. Louis, on the Illifiois side, and St. Louis in iMissouri..
It owned Bloody Island and substantially, controlled two miles
and a half of ferry landing on the Illinois shore.
The Chicago and Alton Railroad Company is likewise an
Illinois corporation, having authority to own and operate a
railroad between Chicago and Bloody Island, opposite the city
of St. Louis, and to "take, use, and make arrangements for the
transportation of freight and passengers carried, or to be carried, upon said railroad, or otherwise, . . ' . to St. Louis,
Alis~ouri, and for this purpose to construct, own, and use such
boat or boats as may be necessary."
The Alton and St. Louis Railroad Company was also an Illinois railroad corporationrauthorized to construct and operate.a
railroad from Alton, Illinois, to any point opposite St. Louis.
On the 28th of April, 1864, this company entered into a contract
with the Wiggins Ferry Company, by which, among other'
things, the ferry company agreed "to furnish and maintain
good and convenient wharf boats and steam ferry boats to do
with promptness, and despatch all the ferrying required for the
transit of passengers and freight coming from or going to said
railroad (or the assignee hereinafter mentioned) over the
river," at reasonable rates of ferriage; and the railroad company covenanted and agreed that it would "always employ
the said ferry to -transport across the said river all persons and.
property which may be taken across the saidr fiver, either way,
to or from the Illinois shore, either for the purpose of being
transported on said railroad, or having been brought to the
said river, iississippi, upon said railroad. So that the said
ferry company, its legal representatives or assigns, owners of
the said ferry, shall have the profits of the transportation of.
all such passengers, persons and 'property, taken across said
river either way by said railroad company; and that no other
than the Wiggins Ferry shall ever, at any time, be employed
by the said party of the second pare, or the assignee herein
mentioned, to cross any passengers or freight coming or. going
on said road."

OCTOBER TER-M,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

And it was also agreed and understood that the Alton and
St. Louis company should have the right to transfer and assign
the agreement to the Chicago and'Alton company, in which
event all the covenants, stipulations, and agreements therein
contained should be as binding on the said Chicago and Alton
company as on the Alton and St. Louis company.
On the same day that the contract..was entered into the
Alton and St. Louis company transferred to the Chicago and
Alton company all its right, title, and interest in and to the
lands, tenements, and easements mentioned therein, and the
Chicago and Alton company became bound to the ferry company in all respects the same as the Alton and St. Louis company was.
This suit was brought by the ferry company in a state court
of Missouri against the Chicago and Alton company to recover
damages for not employing the ferry company for the transportation of persons and property across the river, as by tfie
contract it was bound to do. The railroad company set .up by
way of defence, among other things, that "it had no power or
authority to make or enter ito any agreement whatever, perpetually obliging itself

not to cross persons and prop-'

erty, nor not to employ others to do so in the manner alleged
in the petition.; and that, if the provisions of said articles of
agreement contain, by construction, any such provision, the
same were and are in violation of the laws of the state of Illinois, and contrary to the public policy tliereof, and are void and
of no effect."
The answer further alleged that the railroad company, at
the time of the transfer of the contract to it, "was a publip
.common carrier as a *iailroad.company, duly incorporated by
law, with power and..right to construict and* operate -its rafl-'
road, and to transport persons, passengers, freight, and property to and from the city of St. Louis, in the- state of Missouri, across and over said river, and on or over its railroad, al
-the public interest required; that it was and still is the legal
right and dutf of defendant to. furish and supply the mode
and means of transportation needed and required from time
to time by the public welfare for passengers and property to

CHICAGO & ALTON R'D v. WIGGINS FERRY CO. 619
0piuion of the Court.
and from said city over 'said river, and to, on, and over defendant's railroad; that the public welfare and the necessities of
shippers of property and freight to and over said railroad, and
to and from said city, required that certain freights and property, to be transported by defendant to and from said city,
should be transported by it to and from said city across said
river, and to and from and along defendant's railroad, in the
cars in which it might be, and over and across said river, without breaking bulk and without being removed from such cars,
and without being taken by hand or by wagons or other
appliances, in packages, from or to the 'ears, fiom or to ferryboats, to be ferried across said river; and' that" since said
assignmment other and improved modes of transportation across
said river, without breaking bulk, a'tid at other points on said
river opposite the city of St. Louis; were and have been provided and established, and it was and became the duty of
defendant, as such common carrier, to accommodate the public by the use of such other modes of transportation; and that
any provision of said contract which would prohibit defend
dnt from using the same for the benefit and convenience of
the public was and is against public policy and void, and defendant was not and is not bound thereby."
Upon the trial the statutes under which the railroad conpany was incorporated and from which it derived its.corporate
powers were offered in evidence. They confer upon the company all the usual powers of. railroad corporations, .and, either
expressly or by implication, subject it to corresponding oblig-ations to the public. No testimony was offered, so far as the
record discloses, to show that the courts of Illinois had decided,
or that it had been established by law or usage in that. state,
that this corporation, or any other having similar powers,
could not make such a contract as had been entered into.
After the evidence was all in, the railroad company asked
the court to rule, among other things, as follows:
"If, at the time the contract sued on was made and was
assigned to defendant, the plaintiff was a common ferry,
incorporated under the laws of Illinois, with power to have
anduse a ferry within limits opposite to a portion only of tie

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

city of St. Louis, and the Alton and St. Louis Railrcoad Company was a common carrier, incorporated under the laws of
Illinois, in evidence, with authority and franchise to have and
to use a railroad in said state to a point opposite to the city of
St. Louis, Missouri, and defendant was a common carrier,
incorporated under the laws of Illinois, in evidence, with franchises and authority to have and use a railroad from Chicago,
by way of Alton, in said state, to the Mississippi River, opposite to said city of St. Louis, and carry persons and property
to and from St. Louis, and to and from and over such railroad,
and to have or ise boats for such purpose, then the provisions
of said contract between plaintiff and the Alton and St. Louis
Railroad Company, that said railroad company would always
employ plaintiff or its ferry to transport across the Mississippi
River all persons and property which might be taken across
said river, either way, to or from the Illinois shore, either for
the purpose of being transported on its railroad, or having
been brought to said river on said road, so that plaintiff, its
representatives or assigns, should have the profits of the transportation of all such persons, passengers, and property taken
across the river either way, 'by said Alton and St. Louis Railroad Company, and that no other than plaintiff (or its ferry)
should ever, at any time, be employed by said Alton and St.
Louis Railroad Company, or the assignee therein mentioned,
to cross any passengers or freight coming or going on said
road, were and are illegal, and defendant had no legal right or
authority to bind itself to comply with or perform the same,
and plaintiff cannot recover herein for non-performance thereof by defendant."
There were other requests of a similar character, but this
contains the substance of all that was asked, so far as the questions for our consideration are concerned. These requests were
refused, but the trial court did rule that the railroad company
"did not covenant or contract that all persons and property
coming on its road to St. Louis, or going from St. Louis to be
carried on its road; should be crossed over the Mississippi River
by plaintiff, or at plaintiff's ferry, but onlv such as said railroad company, or its assignee, should employ or procure the

CHICAGO'& ALTON R'D v.' WIGGINS FERRY CO. 621
Opinion of the Court.

ferriage for or have ferried;' and that if other persohs than
the defendant caused, employed, did, or procured the
ferriage or crossing over said river of persons or property coming on the road of . . . defendant to St. Louis, or going
from St. Louis to be carried on said road, by other means or
ferry than plaintiff or its ferry, defendant is not liable therefor,
and defendant was not bound to cause or procure such persons
or property to be crossed at plaintiff's ferry." The court also
ruled that the contract was not "void as being in restraint of
trade," nor "as being beyond the powers of the corporctions
parties thereto," "nor as beyond the powers of the Chicago.
and Alton Railroad Company tb become the'assignee thereof
and be bound thereby," nor "as being contrary to public
policy."
Under these and other instructions, not important for the
purposes of the present inquiry, the cause was sent to a referee
to take testimony and report the damages. The referee in his
report construed the contract to mean that "where the defendant received and billed freights for carriage over its own
road at places or for destinations beyond the termini of its,
road, so that a ferry had to be used to transfer the freights
between the city of St. Louis and the Illinois shore, it was the
duty of the defendant, whether acting as carrier or forwarder,
to give the ferriage to the plaiitiff, and good faith required the
defendant to conform its acts and contracts of carriage to this
obligation." He then said "If the contract has the above
scope and meaning, I am convinced that the defendant has not
acted in good faith towards the plaintiff;" and the damages
were found and reported on this theory of the case.
The trial court confirmed the referee's report and gave judgment accordingly. The case was then taken to the St. Louis
Court of Appeals, where the judgment of the- trial court was
reversed, because, in its opinion, the referee did not proceed on
a correct legal theory and held the railroad company too
strictly to the letter of the contract, without looking sufficiently to the facts surrounding it when made. This judginent of the Court of Appeals was reversed, on appeal, by the
Supreme Court of the state, and that of the trial court affirmed,

OCTOBER TER.M, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

on the ground that the contract was interpreted correctly by
that court, and that, being so interpreted, it was not "udtra
tires, condemned by. public policy or in restraint of trade."
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was brought on the
ground that full faith and credit was not given to the acts of
incorporation of the railroad company, construed in the light
of the judicial decisions and the accepted public law of
Illinois.
A motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction was made at
the last term and continued for hearing with the case on its
merits.
This motion is first to be considered. The railroad company
set up in its answer, as a defence to the action, that it had no
authority to make the contract sued on, and in support of this
defence put in evidence its Illinois acts of incorporation.
Without doubt the constitutional requirement, Art. IV, 4 1,
that "full faith and credii shall be given in each state to the
public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other
state," implies that the public acts of every state shall be given
the same effect by the courts of another state that they have
by law and usage at home. This is clearly the logical result
of the principles announced as early as 1813 in Jfills v. .Duee,
7 Cranch, 481, and steadily adhered to ever since. The claim
of the railroad company is, that by law and usage in Illinois
the operative effect of its charter in that state is to make such
a contract as that now sued on ultra vires.
Whenever it becomes necessary under this requirement of
the Constitution for a court of one state, in order to give faith
and credit to a public act of another state, to ascertain what
effect it has in that state, the law of that state must be proved
as a fact. No court of a state is charged with knowledge of
the laws of another state; but such laws are in that court
matters of fact, which, like other facts, must be proved before
they can be acted upon. This court, and the other courts of
the United States, when exercising their original jurisdiction.
take notice, without proof, of the laws of the several states of
the United States; but in this court, when acting under its
appellate jurisdiction, whatever was matter of fact in the court

CHICAGO & ALTON R'D v. WIGGINS FERRY CO. 623
Opinion of the Court.

wbiose judgment or decree is under review, is matter of fact
here. This was expressly decided in -Manley v. Donoghtue, 116
U. S. 1, in respect to the faith and credit to be given by the
courts of one state to the judgments of the courts of another
state, and it is equally applicable to the faith and credit due
in one state to the public acts of another.
Whether the charter of this company, in its operation on
the contract now in suit, had any different effect in Illinois
from what it would have, according to the principles of general law which govern like charters and like contracts, in Missouri and elsewhere throughout the country, was, under this
rule, a question of fact in the Missouri court, as to which no
testimony whatever was offered. The case from the beginning to the end, both in the pleadings and in the requests for
rulings, seems to have been considered by the parties and by
the court as involving questions of general law only, which
were not at all dependent upon anything peculiar to the jurisprudence of Illinois. Thus, while in the answer'it is alleged,
in effect, that the contract is "in violation of the laws of the
state of Illinois and contrary to the public policy thereof," no
proof was offered to support the averment, and the whole case
was made to rest, so far as the testimony was concerned, on
the further general allegation .that the contract "was and is
contrary to public. policy and void." So, in the requests for
findings, no special reliance was had on any peculiar law or
usage i Illinois, but on the general claim that the contract
"was illegal, and the defendant had no legal right or authority
to bind itself to comply with and perform the same." And in
the trial court the ruling was that the contract was "not void
as being in restraint of trade," nor "as being beyond the
powers of the corporations parties thereto," nor "as beyond
the- power of the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company to
become the assignee thereof, and be bound thereby," nor "as
being contrary to public policy." In the Supreme Court,
whose judgment we are asked to review, the ruling and decision was even mbre general, for it was there held that the co'ntract as interpreted was not ",ultra vire, condemned by
public policy or in .restraint of trade." It thus a~ppears con-

-OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opipion of the Court.

elusively, as we think, that both the parties and the court
understood, as they certainly. might from the way this case
was presented, that the decision was to be made, not upon
anything peculiar to the state of Illinbis, but upon the general law of the land applicable to the facts established by the
evidence. Such evidently was the ground of the decision, and
that being so it is well settled we have no power to bring it
under review. The decision would have been the same upon
the case as made, whether the Constitution had contained the
provision relied on or not. Bethell v. Demaret,.40 Wall. 537;
West Tennessee Bank v. Ciizems Bank, 13 W all. 432; .Delmas
v. Inmurane Co., 14 Wall. 661, in which it was expressly held
that this court cannot review the decision of a state court
holding a contract valid or void when "made upon the general principles by which courts determine whether a consideration is good or bad on principles of public policy." Tari'er v.
Keac, 15 Wall. 67; Rockhold v. lockkold, 92 U. S.129 ; Hew
York Ii~e -Is. Co. v. Hendren, 98 U. S. 286 ; United States v.
-Thompson,93 U. S. 586; B'ank-v.1-Yo Feigh,98 U. S. 332; .D'ger v. Bocock, 104 U. S.596, 601 ; Allen v. 1k TKeigA, 107 U. S.
433; 'S'an Franciscov. Scott,'111 U. S.768; Grame v. Insurance
(s., 112 U. S.273. It is not eiough to give us jurisdiction to
say in the pleadings, or elsewhere in the course of the proceedings, that the contract, whatever it might be in Missouri,
was beyond the powers of the company under its acts of incorporation as they were construed and given effect by ,law and
usage in Illinois. It must somehow be made to appear on the
face of the record that the facts as they were actually presented for adjudication made it necessary for the court to consider and give effect to the act of incorporation in view of
some peculiar jurisprudence of Illinois rather than the general
law of the land. That, as we have seen, was not done in this
case. Consequently we have no jurisdiction, and the motion
to dismiss is granted.
.Dismissed.
IMR. JUSTICE

MATTEws

did not sit in this case.

