ELIDREID v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Statement of Facts.

therein against Charles H. Brooks. If the removal should be
allowed and a judgment rendered in favor of Charles H.
Brooks, the Circuit Court would be compelled to carry into
execution the judgment of the State court against Josiah D.
Brooks, which would in no sense be a judgment of the Circuit
Court, but of the State court alone. As Charles H. Brooks
made himself a party to the "same suit," he voluntarily subjected himself to the obstacles which were in the way of
removing his controversy to the Circuit Court, and must be
governed accordingly. Fletcher,v. Hamlet, 116 U. S. 408.
Had the plaintiffs proceeded against him under the other
statute and brought another suit, the case would have been
different, because that would have been a separate and distinct
action to which there was no other defendant but himself;
but this proceeding is merely auxiliary to the original suit,
and in all respects a part of that suit, from which it cannot be
separated. If a judgment shall be rendered against Charles
H. Brooks, that judgment and the judgment already existing
against Josiah D. Brooks "will be treated as one on the scire
frxciav or execution." Finck v. Lamberton, 62 Penn. St. 30.
The order remanding the dase is
Afirned.

ELDRED v. BELL TELEPHONE COMfPANY.
ERROR TO THE CI-CUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued December 7, 8,1886.-Decided December 20,1886.

tn the facts in this case as stated in the opinion of the court: Held, That
the jury would not have been warranted in drawing the conclusion of
fact from the evidence that there was such an agreement as that sued
on; that the relation of the parties was not such as, in contemplation
of law, to give rise to such liability; and that there was no error in the
instruction of the court below to find a verdict for defendant.

This was an action at law commended by plaintiff in error
as'plaintiff to recover the par value-of 250 shares in the capivoL. cxMx-33

OCTOBER TERMi, 1886.
Opinion of the CQurt.

tal stock of the defendant in error. Judgment below for
defendant. The plaintiff sued 6ut this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.X. Millard R?. Powers (2fp. L. B. Talliant was with him
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
XAT.Henry Hitcheock for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEwS delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, being a citizen of the State of New York, brought his action at law in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of, Missouri against the Bell Telephone Company of Missouri,
a corporation of that State, to recover $25,000, the price and
value of 250 shares of the capital stock of the defendant corporation, of the par value of $100 per share, the personal
property of the plaintiff, advanced, furnished, and delivered to
the defendant at its special instance and request, to be by the
defendant accounted for to the plaintiff. The defendant filed
an answer containing a general denial of the allegations of the
petition. The case came on for trial before a jury, evidence
on both sides was heard, which is fully set out in a bill of
exceptions, and the judge instructed the jury to find a verdict
for the defendant, which was done. The judgment rendered
thereon is sought to be reversed by the present writ of error.
The question presented is, whether there was sufficient evidence in support of the plaintiff's cause of action to require its
submission to the jury. It is conceded that there was no express agreement between the parties under which the defendant was bound to pay for the shares in question. The plaintiff's claim to recover was based entirely upon the supposition
of a contract to be inferred from the acts of the parties. The
un lisputed facts on which this claim is founded are as follows:
In October, 1879, the plaintiff, Eldred, had some correspondence with the National Bell Telephone Company of Boston,
with reference to acquiring the right to operate telephonic
exchanges in Kansas City and St. Louis. The arrangement

ELDRED v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

which resulted from that correspondence required the organization of a corporation under the laws of Missouri, and the
acquisition by it of certain outstanding contracts between the
National Bell Telephone Company and the Kansas City Telephonic Exchange, and also of a contract between the former
and the American District Telegraph Company of St. Louis.
Accordingly, the plaintiff, on December 3, 1879, organized
under the laws of that State the Bell Telephone Company of
Missouri, the nominal capital stock of the corporation being
fixed at $400,000, in shares of $100 each. This stock was to
be issued as full-paid to the plaintiff and others named by him
as associates, in consideration of the transfer to said corporation of the rights expected to be acquired by him from the
National Bell Telephone Company upon the conditions required by it. The plaintiff associated with himself four personal friends, Messrs. Kent and Storke, of New York, and
Durant and Smith, of St. Louis, it being necessary, under the
laws of Missouri, to have five stockholders as incorporators,
agreeing to give them certain proportions of his interest in the
rights to be acquired by him and transferred to the co~poration. The proportions were to be as follows: Storke 750 shareS,
Kent 250 shares, Smith 20 shares, and Durant 750 shares, out
of 4000, Eldred himself retaining the remaining 2230 shares.
No money was paid or to be paid by any of these incorporators for their interests. In the organization of the company,
the capital stock was subscribed for and taken up in the manner and proportions just stated, and certificates of stock for'
these amounts, respectively, were made out with the intention
of delivering them to the subscribers. Before any such delivery was made, however, on the 19th day of December, 1879,
the transaction took place by which the rights of the American District Telegraph Company were secured to the Bell
Telephone Company of Missouri. To accomplish that, it became necessary to make a consolidation, under the laws of
Missouri, of the Bell Telephone Company of Missouri, as
already organized, with the American District Telegraph
Company. The latter was a corporation of 'Missouri, with a
capital stock consisting of 500 shares of $50 each, 263 of which

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

the plaintiff Eldred owned and controlled. According to the
plan of consolidation agreed on, it was necessary to issue to
the owners of the capital stock of the American District Telegraph Company 250 shares of the stock in the Bell Telephone
Company of Missouri.
The plaintiff, in his examination-in-chief, in answer to a
question as to what steps were taken to effect this consolidation, made the following statement:
"We met several tiries, and I remember that at that time
there seemed to be some difficulty about the consolidation of
the two companies in consequence of the statute of the state
having been changed. There were sWveral meetings held, and
I believe the-attbrneys who had charge ef the matter finally
made the consolidation under both of the statutes, which
Aecessitated considerable delay. On coming together; we had
issued 4000 shares of stock, and we wished to consolidate with
the American District Telegraph Company, of .which I was
then president. I was president of both companies. Therefore, it became necessary to provide for some shares to take
up the stock of the American District Telegraph Company.
These gentlemen, with whom I had been already associated,
four in number, at that time were all personal friends of mine,
and I gave them this stock. All the business was like a family
operation. Two of the parties were in New York, Mfr. Kent
and Mr. Storke, and Durant, Smith, and myself were here.
Previous to my coming to St. Louis, I had obtained proxies
for the purpose of voting the stock of Mr. Storke and Mr.
Kent, they not being present, and, as I had agreed with them
in regard to the proportion of stock which I was to give them,
I did not feel authorized to act for them without authbrity,
and therefore I said that I would advance the 250 shares necessary to make up the capital stock of the American District
Telegraph Company out of the proportion which was to be
issued to me. I think that was the way it was done. We had
some trouble about the minutes under the existing.statute, and
I think they were fixed up by the attorneys afterwards, after
I left the city, or about that time."
A consultation was held between Eldred, the plaintiff, and

ELDRED v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Durant and .Smith, two of his associates, on December 19,
1879, at the office of the Bell Telephone Company in St. Louis,
as to how the arrangement should be consummated. The plaintiff's own statement, on cross-examination as a witness in the
case, of this conference, is as follows: .
"All that I rememberabout that particular portion of it is,
that it was at no meeting of the board; so far as my recollection goes, Mr. Duraut was the only person present, and we
found by figuring up the stock that we hadn't enough shares
to take in the American District Telegraph Company of St.
Louis. These gentlemen in interest were all personal friends
of mine. Some of them were in New York, and I had no
authorit to make any concessions for them, -and I therefore
agreed with Mr. Durant, who was vice-president -and general
manager of the company, to advance 250 shares of the stock
of the Bell Telephone Company of Missouri, so that we might
take up the entire capital stock of the American District Telegraph Company." In answer to the question, "You say that
you agreed. What did Durant say ?" he said, "Mr. Durant
didn't have much to say about it; I was the owner of the
property, and he acquiesced generally in all I did."
On the same daya meeting of the stockholders 'of the Bell
Telephone Company of Missouri was held at its office, at which
the three persons named, Durant, Eldred, and Smith, were
present. Eldred was chairman of the meeting, and a preamble and resolution offered by Durant were unanimously adopted,
and are as follows:
"Whereas the National Bell Telephone Company (a, corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Massachusetts) has, by agreement with H. H. Eldred, granted the
said Eldred certain valuable rights, concessions, and franchises
under what are known as the Bell telephone patents and other
patents owned and controlled by the said company, said agreement being contained in a written proposition duly accepted
by the said Eldred, and to be fully set forth in contracts to be
duly executed by the said National Bell Telephone Company,
pursuant to said agreements; and whereas, the said rights,
concessions, and franchises, so acquired by said Eldred, were

OCTOBER TERM,' 1886.
Opinion of the Court

by him transferred to the parties hereinafter named, with in.
terests in the proportion hereinafter set forth, as follows: H.
L. Storke, 750; George H. Kent, 250; E.A. Smith, 20; George
F. Durant, 750 : H. H. Eldred, 2230; total, 4000; said parties
being the owners of said interests at the time of the incorporation of this company, and being the sole incorporators of this
company; and whereas, said exclusive rights, concessions, and
franchises constitute property rights of great value to this
corporation under its charter:
".Resolved, That in consideration of the complete assignment to this corporation in due form of all the rights, title,
and interest of said parties in said exclusive rights, concessions, and franchises, so that the same may be fully Possessed,
enjoyed, and enforced as by said Eldred, this corporation
hereby allots and sets apart to said parties 4000 full-paid
shares of its capital stock, constituting the authorized capital
stock of said company, to each of said parties a .proportionate
part of said 4000 shares, according to his interest in said
rights, concessions, and franchises, and according to the subscription of each to the capital stock of this company, and
constituting a full payment of said subscription: H. L. Storke,
750 shares; George H. Kent, 250 shares; E. A. Smith, 20
shares; George F. Durant, 750 shares; H. H. Eldred, 2230
shares; and, in consideration of the agreement of H. H.
Eldred t6 surrender to this company 250 shares of stock so
allotted to him for the purpose of effecting a consolidation
with the American District Telegraph Company of St. Louis,
a certificate of 1980 shares shall be issued to said Eldred, and
the 250 shares so surrendered shall be retained in the possession of this company, subject to issuance hereafter for said
purpose of consolidation; and the officers of the company are
directed to, issue in due form certificates of stock to said parties above named, and to do and perform all acts necessary
ard proper for the full acceptance on the part of this company
of the aforesaid agreements and propositions of the National
Bell Telephone Company in the execution of contracts or
otherwise."
Accordingly, the original certificate for 2230 shares of stock

ELDRED -v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.
OpiuioAl of the Court.

made out to Eldred, but never delivered, was destroyed, and
another certificate prepared for 1980 shares, which was delivered to and received by Eldred.
It further appears from the evidence, that the plaintiff advanced to the defendant $6000 in money for the purpose of
meeting the exTenses of starting, which was afterwards repaid
by it to him, and for the rights acquired from other sources
than the American District Telegraph Company of St. Louis
the Bell Telephone Company of Missouri subsequently paid
the Western Union Telegraph Company, whibh was in fact
their owner, the sum of $75,000.
The implied contract relied upon by the plaintiff in this
case ie of that class in which the promise of the defendant is
to be inferred from the acts and conduct of the parties. The
,contract assumed to be thus proven is, that, in consideration
of 250 shares of its capital stock owned by the plaintiff and
advanced by him to the defendant, at its instance and request,
to be used for its benefit and advantage, and accepted by the
defendant and so used, the defendant undertook and promised
to pay the reasonable value thereof. The facts and cirbumstances relied on to justify this assumption do not seem to us
to warrant it. It is a misconception of the transaction, as we
view it, to construe it either as a loan of stock by the plaintiff
to the defendant, to be returned either in specie or accounted
for in value, or as a sale of stock by t~Ae plaintiff to the defendant at what the stock was reasonably worth. In truth,
the dealing supposed to result in tlis bargain does not appear
to have taken place between the plaintiff and the defendant,
but between the plaintiff and his associates, corporators in the
original corporation oefore the consolidation. It was an
arrangement having reference to the relative rights and intekests of the corporators themselves, and consisted in the readjustment of th6 relative proportions, inter sese, according to
which they should hold the capital stock of the company.
There had been an agreement by which the 4000 shares
should be allotted among them, so that. the plaintiff might
have 2230; the new agreement was that that allotment
should be so changed as that the plaintiff would have but

OCTOBER TERAI, -1886.
Opinion of the Court.

1980 ; the 250 shares in question being surrendered out of the
original allotment for another and different use in the reorg,nization of the 6ompany, so as to take in other stockholders
and other interests.. The plaintiff in his testimony distinctly
states, that, when it became apparent that 250 shares of the
stock were required for this purpose, he did not feel at liberty
to call upon his associates for a contribution, as he had
promised them the number of shares specifically designated.
It is difficult to see how this does not also exclude the liability
he now seeks to enforce against the corporation, which is .but
another mode of compelling his associates now to make that
contribution, which he says he did not feel at liberty then to
exact. The benefit conferred, assumed to be the consideration
for the promise to return or repay which is sought to be
enforced, was not in fact conferred upon the existing corporation sued as a defendant; the only diffeience in its situation,'
resulting from the transaction, is that the stockholders of the American District Telegraph Company, instead of Eldred,
became the owners of the 250 shares surrendered by the
plaintiff, for which they paid by a transfer of the rights and
property of the District Telegraph Company. The real benefit and advantage growing out of the transaction enured
exclusively to the original corporators in the first Bell Telephone Company of Missouri, including the plaintiff himself,
as it was the means whereby that corporation was enabled
successfully to accomplish the object of its incorporation, but
against them, as has already been shown, the plaintiff makes
no claim. To enforce his claim against the existing corporation is not only to compel his original associates to contribute,
but-also the stockholders of the District Zelegraph Company,
who became, by virtue of the transaction, stockholders in the
defendant corporation; but they made no such bargain as
that. The transaction, whatever it was, was reduced to writing at the time and put on record, as a part of the proceedings
of the stockholders of the Bell Telephone Company of Miissouri, in the recitals and resolution already set out, and is correctly characterized in them as an agreement on the part, of
the plaintiff to surrender to the company 250 shares of the

ELDRED v. BELL TELEPHONE CO.
Opigion of the Court.

stock previously allotted to him, for the purpose of effecting a
consolidation with the'American District Telegraph Company
of St. Louis, the 250 shares so suriendered to be retained in
the possession of the company, subject to be issued thereafter
for that purpose. There is nothing whatever in this statement
to suggest or to warrant the conclusion that there was any
sale of this stock by the plaintiff to the company, or any loan
or advance of it for its uses, for which it was expected any return or payment should be made.
The 'plan for the organization of the company, both in its
general outlines and in its details, was the plaintiff's ownscheme, of whish he continued to have control until its consummation, as he himself testifies. The original plan was,
that he was to retain 2230 shares out of 4000 of the capital
stock of the new company; but it was an essential part of his
undertaking to acquire the property and franchises of the
American District Telegraph Company of St. Louis.. He became satisfied that the best way to accomplish that was by.
the consolidation of the two companies as actually effected,
and to ensure this it became necessary for him to diminish the
relative quantity of his interest in the capital of the consolidated company; and to this end, and for this consideration, asactually and fully expressed in the resolution adopted by the
stockholders, of whom he was'chief, he agreed to surrender to
the company 250 shares of the stock previously intended for
himself. He asked no one to contribute; he certainly did not
contemplate the return of the stock in kind, for that was impossible; it is not a reasonable inference, from the facts and
circumstances, that he expected any payment. It is clear, beyond doubt, that those with whom he was dealing had noreason to believe the existence of any expectation of that kind
on his part. It was certainly treated and considered at the
time as a part, and a necessary part, of the arrangement by
which the plaintiff himself performed his own engagements
with the National Bell Telephone Company for the .purpose of
putting into successful operation the scheme which he had organized by the formation of the Bell Telephone Company of
Missouri

