NEWTON v. FURST & BRADLEY CO.
Syllabus.

to the husband of the plaintiff, that he had reason to suppose
that the whole lot of $100,000 might have been purchased for
fifty cents, on the dollar, but no facts are stated as the ground
for this opinion, and there is no proof beyond the conjecture
itself. Neither is there any reason to conclude that the bank
was responsible either for what Hinckley. did or failed to do.
There is no evidence to warrant the conclusion that anything
the bank could have done, beyond what was done, .would have
resulted more favorably to the plaintiff.
In our opinion, therefore, the court below was justified in
its ruling upon the evidence, instructing the jury to return a
verdict for the defeRdant. The judgment is accordingly
Aflrmed.

NIWTON v. FURST AND BRADLEY -COIPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NO tERN DISTRICT OF ILMINOTS.
Argued December 3, 1886.-Declded December 13, 1880.

The first claim of reissued letters-patent No. 8986, granted to Robert Newton, December 2d, 1879, for an improvement in gang-ploughs, (the original
patent, No. 56,812, having been granted to F. S. Davenport, as inventor,
October 9th, 1886,) namely, "1. In a wheel-plough, the combination, With
a swing-axle and ground or carrying-wheel, of friction-cluteh mechanism,
and-means forengaging and disengaging the latter with the ground or
carryIng-wheel, said parts being constructed and adapted to raise the
plough by locking the swing-axle to the carrying-wheel by friction-clutch
engagement, and raise the plough-beam by the draft or power of the
team, substantially as set forth," is, in view of the setezaf the art at the'
time of the invention of Davenport, noc infringed by an apparatus in
which the axle and the friction-clutch mechanism are different, as devices, from those of the patent.
The first claim of the reissue is invalid, the reissue haying been applied for
more than thirteen years after the original patent -was granted, and
after the defendant had begun to make machines of the pattern complained of.
The defendant's machine did not infringe the original patent, and the reissue was taken to cover it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

This was a bill in equity to recover for the infringement of
lettet's-patent. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. .ewis I. Coun for appellant.
Mr. 1. 1. Bond for appellees.
AIR. JUSTiCE, BLATOHFoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois by Robert
Newton against the Furst and Bradley Manufacturing Company and others, to recover for the infringement of reissued
letters-patent 1No. 8986, granted to the plaintiff, December 2d,
1879, on an application, filed October 15th, 1879, for an improvement in gang-ploughs, (the original patent, No. 56,812,
having been granted to F. S. Davenport, as inventor, October
9th, 1866).
The specification and claims of the original, and those of
the reissue, and the drawings of the reissue, are as follows,
the parts in each which are not found in the other being in
italic:

Original.

-?eissue.

"Be it known that I, F. S.
Davenport, of Jerseyville, Jersey county, and State of Illinois, have invented a new and
improved yang-plough; and I
do hereby declare that the following isa full, clear, and exact description thereof, *which
will enable others skilled in
the art to make and use the
same, reference being had to
the accompanying drawings,
[p. 376] forming part of this

"Be it known that I, F. S.
Davenport, df Jerseyville, Jersey county, and State of Illinois, have invented a new and
improved wkeel-plough; and I
do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear, and exact description thereof, which
will enable others skilled in
the art to make and use the
same, reference being had to
the acompanying drawings,
forming part of this specification. [See page 376.]

specification, in which-

NEWTON v. FURST & BRADLEY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The object of Ihy invention
is to provide inzproved means
for utilizing the draft of the
team in raisingaploughfrorn-'
the ground; and to this end
my invention consists,ftrst, in
the combination, with a swingaxle and ground or carryingwheel, of frcon-clutch mechanism and means'fdr engaging
anddisengagingthe latter with
the ground or earrying-wheel,
said parts being constructed
and adaptedto raise theplough
by locking the swing-axle to
the carrying-wheel by frictionclutch engagement, and raise
the plough-beam by the draft or
.power of the team; second, in
the eombination,with a groundwheel, a swing-axle, and a
plough-beam connected with the
latter,of clutch mechanism connected to the axle and adapted
by engagement with the wheel
to utilize the draft of the team
in turning the swing-axle into
upright position, and thereby
raise the plough-beam;, third,
i. the combination, with a'
ground-wheel, a swing-axle;
and a plough-beam connected
to the latter, of a frictionclutch connected to the axle
and adapted, by contact with
the wheel, to turn,the axle into
uvpright position., and thereby
'raise the plough-b'eam by the
aid of the draft of the team.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

NEWTON v. FURST & BRADLEY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Figure 1 is a plan or top
view of my invention; Fig. 2,
a side view of the same, partly
in section, as indicated by the
line x o, Fig. 1; Fig. 3, a transverse vertical section of the
same, taken in the line y y,
Fig. 1. Similar letter.- of reference indicate like parts. [See
page 376.]
This machine consists of a
frame, A, made of two parallel beams or bars, a a, braced
together near the front and
back pieces, b b. From each

of these beams or bars depends
a plough, B. To the front crosspiece is bolted an iron standard, C, strengthened by an
iron stay, D, running down to
the back cross-piece. To the
top of the standard, 0, is attached a spring seat, E, the
whole supported upon two
wheels, F F, each turning upon
a, iron axle, e, attached to a
hinged board, G.
It will be observed that one
of the axeles, e, is attached to
the front or upper side of the
hinged boar'd, G, and the other
to the back or under side, in
such a manner that when it is
turned down in a horizontal
position to lower the ploughs
to the ground, the wheel that
runs in the furrow will be as
much lower than the other as

Referring to the d'awings
[p. 376], Figure 1 is a plan or
top view of my inven'tion; Fig.
2 is a side view of the same,
partly in section, as indicated
by the line x w,Fig. 1; Fig. 3is
a transverse vertical section 6f
the same, taken in the line y y,
Fig. 1. Similar letters of reference indicate like parts.
This machine consists of a
frame, A, made of two parallel beams or bars, a a, braced
together near thQ front and
back pieces, b b. From each
of these beams or bars depends
a plough, B. To the front crosspiece is bolted an iron standard, 0, strengthened by an
iron stay, D, running down to
the back cross-piece. To the
top of the standard, 0, is attached a spring seat, E, the
whole suppoited upon two
wheels, F F, each turning upon
a journal, c, of a swing-acele,
G.
It will be observed that one
of the journals, o, is attached
to the front or upper side of
the swing-axee, G, and the
other to the back or under
side, in such a manner that
when it is turned down in a
horizontal position to lower
the ploughs to the ground, the
wheel that runs in the furrow
will be as much lower than

, OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion-of the Court.

the depth, of the furrow may
require. The axle that carries
the wheer that runs in the furrow is so formed that it may
be removed from the back of
the hinged board and bolted to
the front, so that the machine
may run level when there is
no furroN# for the wheel to run
in, as is the case when- preparing the ground for cotton seed.
The hinged board G is attached to the plough-frame by
two iron hinges, H H', the one
H on the side of the long beam
forming an arm or lever, I, to
which is attached a chain, J,
which passes over a wheel, K,
and is made fast to the ploughframe. The wheel K turns
upon a stud in the end of a
lever, L, this lever-being bolted
to the foot-board M, which is
hinged to the plough-frame in
the same manner and at the
same place as the axle-board
G. To the opposite end of
the foot-board is bolted a
bracket or stop, d, against
which rests an arm, e, by
which the hinged board G is
operated, the arm e being held
in the vertical position by a
latch, -W, which is lifted by
placing the foot on the back
part of it.
Now, it will be seen that to

the other as the depth of the
furrow may require. The
journal that carries the wheel
that runs in the furrdw is so
formed that it may be removed
from the back of the swingaxle and be secured to the front,
so that the machine may run
level when there is no furrow
for the wheel to run in, as is
the case when preparing the
ground for cotton seed.
The swing-axle G is attached
to the plough-frame by two
iron hinges, H H', the one H
on the side of the long beam
forming an arm or lever, I,
to which is attached a chain,
J, which passes over a wheel,
K, and is made fast to the
plough-frame. The wheel K
turns upon a stud in the end
.of a lever,L 2 this lever, beingbolted to the foot-board M,
which is hinged to the ploughframe in the same manner
and at the same place as the
axle G. To the opposite end
of the foot-board is bolted a
bracket or stop, d, against
which rests an arm, e, by
which the swing-axle G is
operated, the arm e being.held
in the vertical position by a
latch, N, which is lifted by
placing the foot on the back
part of it.
Now, it will be seen that to

NEWTON v. FURST & 'BRADLEY ,CO.
Opinion of the Court.

lower the2poughsto the ground
it is'only necessary to bring
down the arm e till a block, f,
which is bolted to its side,
rests upon a roller, g, of a
lever, 0, which is secured in
the required position by a
notched quadrant, N. It will
be observed, that, as the lever
0 is moved forward from
notch to notch, the ploughs will
cut deeper and deeper, and the
reverse as it is drawn back.
By these details the driver has
entire control of the depth of
the furrow without moving
from his seat or stopping the
machine.
Through a mortise in the
top of the arm e passes a small
iron *lever, P, to which is
attached a rod, Q, connecting
it with a brake, R, which acts
upon one of the wheels F, the
brake R working upon a pin
fixed in a block of wood or an
iron plate fastened to the
front side of the hinged board
G. The object of this brake
is to facilitate the operation
of lifting the ploughs out of
the ground when the machine
is moving forward, for by
applying but a little force to
the lever P the brake is
pressed sufficiently hard to
the wheel to turn the hn'ged
board to the vertical position.

lower the2 louyk to the ground'
it is only necessary to bring
down the arm e till a block, f,
which is bolted to its side, rests
upon a stop, g, of a lever, 0,
which is secured in the required position by a-notched.
quadrant, N. It will be observed, that, as the lever 0 is
moved forward from notch
to notch, the ploughs will out
deeper and deeper, and the
reverse as it is drawn back.
By these details, the driver
has entire control of the depth
of the furrow without moving.
from his seat or stopping the
machine.
Through a mortise in the
top of arm e passes a small
iron lever, P, to which is
attached a rod, Q, connecting
it with a brake, R, which acts
upon one of th6 wheels F, the
brake R working upon a pin
fixed in a block of wood or
an iron plate fastened to the
front side of the swing-axke G.
The object of this brake is to
facilitate the operation of lifting the ploughs out of the
ground when the machine is
moving forward, for by applying but a little force to the
lever P the brake is pressed
sufficiently hard to the wheel
to turn the swing-awle to the
vertical position.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
, Opinion of the Court.

The draft-pole or tongue Cf
is fastened to the under side
of the' foot-board M by two
bolts, at, a number of holes
being made, so that the tongue
may be moved to the right or
left to give the required land
-to the ploughs. The back holes
b4 are made oblong, so that it
can be slanted whdni needed.
The tongue may, if necessary,
beused on either side of the
draft-line, and the double tree
attached to the foot-board
,independent of the tongue.
This arrangement is chiefly
for the convenience of using
three horses abreast.
When the ldnged board G
is turned down in the horizontal position the lever or arm I
.gives the chain 'J, which is
attached to. it, considerable
slaclk, allowing the tongue to
move up and down without
influencing the ploughs, constituting.what is commonly called
'a limber tongue.'
In regard to raising the
ploughs out of the ground, it
will- be observed that the
front ppart of the machine is
lifted nearly two-thirds of its
course before the lever I tightens the chain and commences
to lift the back part. This
contrivance produces an easy

"Thedraft-pole or tongue Cx
is fastened to 'the under side
of the foot-board M.by two
bolts, ax, a number of holes
being made, so that the tongue
may be moved to the right or
left to give the required land
to the ploughs. The back holes
bx are made as oblong slots, so
that the tongue can be slanted
•when needed. The tongue
may, if necessary, be used on
either side of the draft-line,
and the double tree attached
to the foot-board independent
of the tongue. This arrangement is chiefly for the convenience of using three horses
abreast.
When the swing-axZe G is
turned down in the horizontal
position the lever or arm I
gives the chain J, which is
attached to it, considerable
slack, allowing the tongue to
move up and down witho-it
influencing the ploughs, constituting what is commonly
called a 'limber tongue.'
In regard to. raising the
ploughs out of the ground, it
will be observed that the front
part of the machine is lifted
nearly two-thirds of its course
before the lever I tightens the
chain and commences to lift
the! back part. This contrivance produces an easy motion

NEWTON v. FURST & BRADLEY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

motion, without causing either
jerk or strain upon the horses
or the machine.
The hind plough can be
raised or lowered independent
of the other, the standard B'
sliding in an iron block, O,
and operated by a lever, At,
extending forward to the front
of the seat, and secured in the
required position by notches
in the side of the seat-standard, as shown in Fig. 3.
I claim as new and desire to
secure by letters-patent1. The lever P, rod Q, and
brake 1, arranged and operated as and for the _purpose
descried.
2. The hinged board G, in
connection with the reversible
axles, substantially as aadfor
the purpose described.
3. The lever 0 and quadrant A , for regulating the
depth of the furroz, sv bstantially as and for the purpose
,pecifed.
4. Lifting the hind part of
the machine, by neans of the
lever or afrm f,, iA. connection
wvith the chain, T wheel -, and
lever L, these parts opera~ng
together, substantially as and
fAr the pwpose described..
5. Hinging the foot-board

without causing either jerk or
strain upon the horses or the
machine.
The hind plough can be
raised or lowered independent
of the other, the standard B'
sliding in an iron block, Ox,
and operated by a lever, Ax,
extending forward to the front
of the seat, and secured in the
required position by notches in
the side of the seat-standard,
as shown in Fig. 3.
Raving fully described Tay
invention, what I claim as new,
and desire to secure by letterspatent, is 1. In a wheel-plough, the
cornbination,with a swing-axle
and ground or carrying-wheel,
of friction-clutch mechanism,
and means for engaging and
disngaging the latter with the
ground or car+ying-wheel,said
parts being constructed and
adapted to raise the plough by
locking the swing-axle to the
carrying-wheel by frictionclutch engagement, and raise
'the plough-beamr by the draft or
paoer, of the teara, substantially as setforth.
2-.In, a wheelplough, the combination, with a ground-wheel,
a swing-axle,andaploug-beamn
connectedto the latter,of clutchmechanism connected to the
axle, and adapted, by engage-

OCTOBER TERMh,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

M to the ploughframe, as de- ment with the wheed, to tQize
the draft of the team in turnscribed.
6. Securing the tongue or
draft-pole to the foot-board M
in the manner andfor the purpose described.
1. The slidingplough-stand7
ard B', guide-block Of, lever
-At,and notced seat-standard
* C, whew
used together and in
connection with the otherparts.
8. Connecting the lever 1
with the tongue or draft-pole
by fastening it to the footboard, the whole operating together, substantiallyas andfor
thepurpose set forth."

ing the swing-axle into upright
Position, and thereby raise the
plough-beam, substantially as

set forth.
3. In a wheelpl uh, thke cornbination, witk a ground-wheel,
a swing-axle, andaplough-beam
connected to the latter, of a
friction-cluteh connected to the
axle, azid adapted, by contact
with the wheel, to turn the ame
'into upright position, and
thereby raise.the plouyh-bea?
by aid of the draft of the team,
substa/ntiallyas set forth."

The answer sets up, among other defences, non-infringement; and that the reissued patent is invalid because not for
the same invention as the original. On a hearing on proofs,
the Circuit Court entered a decree, which finds that the equities are with the defendants, and that they do not infringe on
the rights of the plaintiff, and dismisses the bill. The plaintiff has appealed to this court.
By the opinion of the Circuit Court in the case, 11 'Bissell,
405, it appears that the defences of non-infringement and of
the invalidity of the reissue were sustained. .Infringement is
hot asserted in this court as to any claim of the reissue but
the first.
In regard to the subject-matter of that claim, the specification bf the reissue states that the invention consists "in the
combination, with a swing-axle and ground or carrying-wheel,
of friction-clutch mechanism,, and means for engaging and disengaging the latter with the ground or carrying-wheel, said
.parts being;.constructed and adapted to raise the plough by
locking the swinb xle to the carrying-wheel by friction-clutch
engagement, and raise the plough-beam b the draft or power

NEWTON

iv.

FURST & BRADLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court.

of the team." The first claim of the reissue uses the same
language, with the prefix of the words "in a wheel-plough,",
and the addition, at the end, of the words "substantially as
set forth."
The other, alterations made in the specification are, that
"gaog-plough" is changed into "wheeLplough';" "ir
ax"
into "jo urnal;" and "hinged board" into "s wing-axle."
The first claim of the original patent is for a ombination
of the lever P with the rod Q and the brake R. When force
is applied to the lever P, motion is communicated through the
rod Q to the brake IR,which brake acts on the periphery of
one of the two supporting or carrying-wheels F, the axle of
which, c, isattached to a hinged board G, and by the action of
the brake the hinged board is changed from a horizontal position to a vertical positipn, and the effect is to facilitate the
operation of lifting the ploughs out of the ground. The first
claim of the original patent covers only the combination of
the three specific devices -the lever P, the rod Q, and the
brake R. The first claim of the reissue calls the brake R
"friction-clutch mechanism," and calls the lever P and the rod'
Q "means for engaging and disengaging the latter with the
ground or carrying-wheel," and then claims the combination
of four things - (1) friction-clutch mechanisnf; (2) means for
engaging and disengaging it with the ground or carryingwheel; (3) a swing-axle; (4) a ground or carrying-wheel.
The.hinged board G of the plaintiff's original patent is ten
or twelve inches wide, and at each end of it is a spindle for
one of the two ground or carrying-wheels to run on, the
spindles being in line with one edge of the hinged board.
The forward ends of the plough-beams are attached by joints to
what is the back edge of tle hinged board while that board is
horizontal, so that when it comes to be vertical by the action
of the brake and the forward moVement of the team, the forward ends of the plough-beams are raised in height a distance
equal to the width of the hinged board, lifting theploughs.
The defendants' machine is thus described in the opinion of
the Circuit Court, and the description is conceded by the counsel for the plaintiff to be a fair one: "The defendants! machine

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

is a wheel or sulky plough, with a bent or cranked iron axle, upon
which the plough-beams axe pivoted at about two-thirds of the
dittance Nom the forward end to the coulter, so that the plough
is nearly balanced upon the axle or crank, and the arrangement of the mechanism is such, that when the plough is running
or operating in the ground, the crank part is in a horizontal position, and, when it is desired to raise the ploughs out of the
ground, the crank is turned upward towards a vertical position,
whereby the forward ends of the beam are raised until the
point of the plough runs out of the ground. After the forward
end of the beam has risen to a certain point, it strikes a stop,
so that, when the crank has assumed a vertical position, the
plough is balanced across the crank part of the axle, thus sustaining the plough at the height above the ground of the orank
when in a vertical position. This turning of the crank-axle,
so as to lift the plough, is accomplished by a friction band or
brake, which is made to engage with an inner extension of the
hub of one of the carrying-wheels, so that, as the wheel moves
forward, it causes the crank-axle to turn upwards from a horizontal to a vertical position."
The Circuit Court was of opinion, that, if the state of the
art was such as to entitle Davenport to a broad claim for any
device by which the plough is lifted by the power of the team.
through a brake or friction-clutch, the defendants' machine
would infringe. But, the court found that, prior to Davenport,
devices had been used in agricultural implements for utilizing
bymeans of a brake the motion of the carrying-wheel, through
a crank-axle, in raising operative parts of the machine from
the ground, which devices were so alike in structure and so
analogous in use to those of Davenport, as to require his claims
to be limited to his specific devices. In view of those prior
devices the Court held that the defendants' friction-band
could not be regarded as the same means for engaging and
disengaging the carrying-wheel and the axle as the brake of
Davenport; and that the defendants' crank-axle was not the
plaintiff's hinged board. In these views we concur.
The reissue was applied for more than thirteen years after
the original was granted, and after the defendants had begun

