BUTTZ' v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Syllabus.

'on 3Iountailb & Southern -Raie.E
parte A'orroad v. S outherv Tjh:rrems Co., 108 U. S. 24, 28;
toil, 108 U. S. 237, 242; .Mower v. F etcher, 114 U. S. 127.

U. S.429; 431; St. Iouis &

The motion to dismiss is granted.

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUTREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DA.KOTA.
Argued October 25, 27, ISS.- Decided N\ovember 15, 1986.
The grant by the act of Congress of July 2, 1864, to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, of lands to which the Indian title had not been
extinguished, operated to convey the fee to the company, subject to the
right of occupancy by the Indians.
The manner, time, and conditions of extinguishing such right of occupancy
were exclusively matters for the consideration of the government, and
could not be interfered with nor put in contest by private parties.
The agreement of the Sisseton and Wahpetou bands of Dakota or Sioux
Indians for the relinquishment of their title was accepted on the part of
the United States when it was approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
on the 19th of June, 1873. That agreement stipulating to be binding
from its date, May 19, 1873, and the Indians having retired from the
lands to their reservations, the relinquishment of their title, so far
as the United States are concerned, held to have then taken place.
Upon the definite location of the line of the railroad, on the 26th of fay,
1873, the right of the company, freed from any incumbrance of the
Indian title, immediately attached to the alternate sections; and no preemptive right could be initiated to the land, so long as the Indian title
was unextinguished.
When the general route of the road provided for in sectibn six of the Act
of July 2, 1864, was fixed, and information thereof was given to the
Land Department by the filing of a map thereof with dhe Secretary of
the Interior, the statute withdrew from sale or pre mptioD the odd
sections to the extent of forty miles on each side thereof; and, by way
of precautionary notice to the public, an Executive withdrawal was ,a
,wise exercise of authority.
The general route may be considered'as fixed, when its general course and
direction are determined, after an actual examination of the country or
from a knowledge of it, and it is designated by aline on a map, showing

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
the general features of the adjacent country and the places through or
by which it will pass.
That part of section three of said act, which excepts from the grant lands
reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and to which a preemption and other rights and claims have not attached, when a map of
definite location has been filed, does not include the Indian right of
occupancy within such "other rights and claims; " nor does it include
preemptions where the sixth section declares that the land shall not be
subject to preemptiou.

The following.is the case as stated by the court:
This was an action for the possession of a tract of, land in
the Territory of Dakota. The plaintiff below, the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, asserted title to the premises under
a grant made by the act of Congress of July 2, 1864.

The

defendant, Peronto, asserted a right to preempt the premises
by virtue of his settlement upon them under the preemption
law of September 4th, 1841, and that his right thereto was
superior to that of the railroad company.
The action was brought into the District Court of the Territory. The complaint was in the usual form in such cases,
alleging the incorporation of the plaintiff, its ownership in fee
of the premises, (which are described,) and its right to their
immediate possession, and that they are withheld by the defendant, with a prayer for judgment for their possession, and
damages for the withholding.
The answer of the defendant admits the incorporation of
the plaintiff, and that he is in possession of the premises, -but
denies the other allegations of the complaint. It then sets up
as a further defence that he settled upon the premises on
October 5th, 1871, and resided thereon, and the several steps
taken by him to perfect a right of preemption to them, and
that he possessed the qualifications of a preemptor under the
laws of the United States. It concludes with a prayer that
the title of the plaintiff be declared void, and that the plaintiff
be enjoined from enforcing or attempting to enforce it; that
the title be declared to be in the defendant; and that such
other and further relief be granted as may be necessary to
protect and preserve his rights.

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

57

Statement of Facts.

The plaintiff replied, traversing the allegations of the answer; and the issues, by consent of the parties, were tried by
the court, without a jury. The court found for the plaintiff,
and gave judgment in its favor for the possession of the preinises, with costs. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, the judgment was affirmed, and, by appeal from the
latter judgment, the case was brought to this court. Since it
was docketed here, the defendant, who was the appellant, died,
and, by leave of the court, his executor, the devisee of his
estate, has been substituted as appellant in his place.
The act of Congress of July 2d, 1864, is entitled "An act
granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound, on the
Pacific Coast, by the northern route." 13 Stat. 365.
By the first section, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated and authorized to equip and maintain
the railroad and telegraph line mentioned, and was vested with
"all the powers and privileges necessary to carry into effect the
purposes of the act.
By the third section, a grant of 'land was made to the company. Its language is: "That there be, and hereb is, granted
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and
assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said
railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific coast, and to secure
the safe and speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores, over the route of said line of
railway, every alternate section of public land, not mineral,
desigiated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line, as said
company may adopt, through the territories of the United
States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side
of said railroad whenever it passes through any state, and
whenever on the line thereof, the United States have full title,
not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free
from preemption, or other claims or rights, at the, time the
line of said road is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in
the office of the commissioner of the general land office."
]y the sixth section, it was enacted "that the President of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

the United States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty
miles in width on both sides of the entire line of said road after the general route shall be fixed, and as fast as may be required by the construction of said railroad; and the odd sections of land hereby, granted shall not be liable to sale or
entry or pregmption before or after they are surveyed, except
by said company, as provided in this act; but the provisions of
,the act of September, eighteen hundred and forty-one, granting preemption rights, and the acts amendatory thereof; and of
the act entitled ' An act to secure homesteads to actual settlers
on the public domain,' approved Mlay twenty, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, shall be, and the same are hereby, extended
to all other lands'on the line of said road when surveyed, excepting those hereby granted to said company. And the reserved alternate sections shall not be sold by the government
at a price less than two dollars and fifty cents per acre when
offered for sale."
At the time this act was passed, the land in controversy,
and other lands covered by the grant, were in the occupation
of the Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands of Dakota or Sioux Indians; and the second section provided that the United States
should extinguish, as rapidly as might be consistent with public policy and the welfare of the Indians, their title to all lands
"falling under the operation of this act and acquired in the
donation to the road."
On the 19th of February, 1867, a treaty was concluded between the United States and these Bands, which was ratified
on the 15th of April and proclaimed on the 2d of May of that
year, 15 Stat. 505, in the second article of which the Bands
ceded "to the United States the right to construct wagon
rohds, railroads, mail stations, telegraph lines, and such other
public improvements as the interest of the government may
require, over and across the lands clahned by said bands, (including their reservation as hereinafter designated,) over any
route or routes that may be selected by authority of the government, said lands so claimed being bounded on the south
and east by the treaty line of 1851 and the Red river of -the
North to the mouth of Goose river, on the north by the Goose

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

59

Statement of Facts.

rivei and a line running from the source thereof by the most
westerly point of Devil's lake to the Chief's Bluff at the head
of James river, and on the west by the James river to the
mouth of, Mocasin river, and thence to Kampeska lake." By
articles III and IV certain lands were set apart as permanent
reservations for the Indians-one of which was kmown as
Lake Travers reservation, and the other as Devil's lake reservation-so called because their boundary lines commenced
respectively at those lakes.
On the 7th of June, 1872, Congress passed an act "to quiet
the title to certain lands in Dakota Territory," which provided that it should be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to exanine and report to Congress what title or interest
the Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands of Sioux Indians had to
any portion of the land mentioned and described in the second article of that treaty, except the reservations named; and
whether any, and if any, what, compensation ought, in justice
and equity, to be made to said bands for the extinguishment
of whatever title they might have to said lands. 17 Stat. 1281.
Under this act, the Secretary of the Interior appointed
three persons as commissioners to treat with the Indians for
the relinquishment of their title to the land. On the 20th of
September, 1872, they made an agreement or treaty with the
Bands for such relinquishment. This agreement recited the
conclusion of the treaty of 1867, and the cession by it to
the United States of certain privileges and rights supposed to
belong to said Bands in the territory described in the second
article of the treaty; and that it was desirable that all the
territory, except that portion comprised in certain reservations
described in articles III and IV of the treaty, should be ceded
absolutely to the United States, upon such considerations as
in justice and equity should be paid therefor; and that the
lands were no longer available to the Indians for the purposes
of the chase, and their value or consideration was essentially
necessary to enable them to cultivate portions of the permanent reservations, and become self-supporting by the cultivation of the soil and other pursuits of husbandry. "Therefore,"
the agreement continues, "the said Bands represented in said

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

treaty, and parties thereto, by their chiefs and headmen, now
assembled in council, do propose to Y. N. Adams, William H.
Forbes, and James Smith, Jr., commissioners on behalf of the
United States, as follows:
" First. To sell, cede, and relinquish to the United States
all their right, title, and interest in and to all lands and territoryparticularly described in article II of said treaty, as well
as all lands in the Territory of Dakota to which they have
title or iuterest, excepting the said tracts particularly described
and bounded in articles III and IV of said treaty, which lastnamed tiacts and territory are expressly reserved as permanent reservation for occupancy and cultivation, as contemplated
by articles VIII, IX, and X bof said treaty."
"'Second.,'That, in consideration of said cession and relin.quishment, the United States should advance and pay annually, for the term of ten years from and after the acceptance
by the United States of the propositions herein submitted,
eighty thousand ($80,000) dollars, to be expended, under the
direction of the President of the United States, on the plan
and in accortnce with the provisiong of the treaty aforesaid,
dated February 19, 1867, for goods and provisions, for the
erection of manual labor and public schools, and to the erection
of mills, blacksmith shops, and other work shops, and to aid
in: opening farms, breaking land, and fencing the same, and
in furnishing .agricultural implements, oxen, and milk cows,
and such other beneficial objects as may be deemed most conducive to the prosperity and happiness of the Sisseton and
Wahpeton Bands of Dakota or Sioux Indians, entitled thereto,
according to the said treaty of February 19, 1867."
This agreement contained seven other articles, some of
which had provisions of great value to the Indians. It does
not appear that it was ever presented to the Senate of the
United States for ratification, but it was communicated to
Congress by.the Sceretary of the Interior; and in the Indian
appropriation act of February 14th, 1873, an amount was conditionally appropriated to meet the first instalment of the sum
provided by uhe second article - eighty thousand dollars.
The condition was that the amount should not be expended

BUTTZ vo. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Statement of Facts.-

until that agreement, amended by the exclusion of all the articles except the first two, should be ratified by the Indians.
-The agreement, exclusive of those articles, was confirmed by
Congress. 17 Stat. 456.
The ratification of the agreement, as amended, was obtained
from the Indians at the two reservations; from those on one
reseivation, on May 2, 1873, and from those on the other reservation on the 19th of the same month. This ratification was
accepted and approved by the Secretary of the Interior on the
19th of June, 1873, and. the expenditure of the appropriation
made was authorized. No approval of the agreement was bad
by Congress until the passage of the Indian appropriation act
of June 22d, 1874, by which it was confirmed and an appropriation made to meet the second instalment of the consideration stipulated.
It appears by the findings of the court, that some time in
the fall of 1871, under the act of Congress mentioned, and
other acts and resolutions relating to the same subject, the
Railroad Company commenced work on that part of its line
of road beginning on the westerly bank of the Red River of
the North (which was the eastern boundary of Dakota), and
extending -westerly through and across what was afterwards
shown by the public surveys to be the section of land of which
the premises in 'controyersy form a part, namely, sect:on 7 in
township 139 and range 48. It also caused all that part of
its line of road thus located to be graded and prepared for its
superstructure; and in June following the superstructure and the
iron rails were laid, and that part of the road was completed
which crossed the section named, and ever since the road has
been maintained and operated.
On the 21st of February, 187'2, the company filed in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior a map showing that part
of the general route of the road beginning at the westerly
bank of the Red River of the North, and extending westeily
to James River, in Dakota Territory. On the 30th of March
following, the acting Commissioner of the General Land Office
forwarded to the register and receiver of the Pembina land
office, within the limits of which the tract of land in contro-

OCTOBER TER19, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

versy was situated, a description of the designated route, and,
by order of the Secretary of the Interior, directed them to
withhold from sale or location, preemption, or homestead
entry, all the surveyed and unsurveyed odd numbered sections
of public lands falling within the limits of forty miles, as designated on the map, and stated that this order would take
effect from the date of its receipt by them.
The order, with the diagram, was received by them April
20th, 1872. The diagram represented the route of the road
as passing over and across the section of land in question.
The order of withdrawal thus given was never afterwards
revoked.
On May 26th, 1873, the company filed in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office a map, showing the
definite location of that part of its line of road extending from
the Red River of the North to the -Missouri River in Dakota
Territory. All that portion of this definite location, from the
Red River to the west line of the section named, was the same
as that made in 1871. On the 11th of June, 1873, the actii
Commissioner of the General Land Office addressed a letter
to the local register and receiver, informing them of the ffling
of this map of definite location, and transmitted to them a
diagram showing the limits of the land grant along said line,
and also the limits of the withdrawal ordered on March 30th,
1872, upon a designated line; and directed them to withhold
from sale or entry all the odd numbered sections, both surveyed and unsurveyed, falling within those limits. This letter,
with the diagram referred to, was received at the Pembini
land office on June 24th, 1873.
Soon after the execution of the amended agreement witl
the Indians, mentioned above, which was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior on the 19th of June, 1873, the government land surveys of the region embraced in it were coinpleted, and plats thereof were filed in the local land office.
Those surveys show that the premises in controversy constitute a portion of the odd section nmuber seven, which was
granted to the railway company.
The defendant, Peronto, settled, as already stated, upon

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

63

Argument for Appellants.

that section on October 5th, 1871. It is found by the court
that he had,all the qualifications of a preemptor, and entered
upon the land with the intention of securing a preEmption
right to it under the laws of the United States,'and built a
house upon it, in which he resided. On the 11th of August,
1873, he presented his declaratory statement to the register
and receiver of the local land office, stating his intention to
claim a preemption right to a portion of the section (describing it) and his settlement thereon 'in October, 1871. This
declaratory statement was presented within three months
after the township plats, showing the government surveys,
had been filed in the local land office. The register -and
receiver refused to file it, for the alleged reason that the land
therein described was the land of the Railroad Company, as
shown by its diagram filed in the Department of the Interior,
February 21, 1872, and that his alleged prior settlement was
illegal, the lands not being subject to preemption settlement
by reason of the Indian treaty. The defendant thereupon
appealed from this ruling to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, by whom, on the 14th of February, 1874, it was
approved and confirmed. The defendant then appealed to
the Secretary of the Interior, and he approved the decision
of the Commissioner.
S2M'. Albert G.Riddle and Jfr. llenryE )avis for appellant.
Mr>. James .Padgett was with them on their brief.

I. At the' date of the passage of the act of July 2,1864,
the lands in controversy were Indian lands. Act of June 30,
1834, 4 Stat. 729. They were not "public lands," nor subjected to the operation of acts dealing with "public lands,"
but remained "Indian lands."
Leavenworth, Lawr)ence &
Gale'eston Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733, 742 ;
Ulzited States v. Forty-Thee Gallons Tiiskey, 93 U. S.188;
Bates v. Claek, 95 U. S. 204. The right of Indians to the
lands they occupy is unquestioned until the title is extinguished by voluntary cession. cherokee .Tation v. Georgia,
5 Pet. 1: and under the act of 1834 is as sacred as the title

OCTOBER TERMJ,

1886.

Argument for Appellants.

of the United States to the. fee. United- States v. Cook, 19
Wall. 591. Whenever a tract of public land is legally appropriated to any purpose, it is thereby severed from the mass
of public lands, so that no subsequent law or proclamation or
sale will be construed to embrace it. Wilcox v. Jacvkson, 13
Pet. 498, 513; Polk v. Teaall, 9 Cranch, 87; Vincennes UniVersity v. Indiana, 14 IHow. 268. This principle applies with
especial force to Indian reservations. For all practical purposes Indians own their lands. United States v. Payne,
2 McCrary, 289; Dubugzue & 8 ioux City _Railroad v. Des
2foines F'aly Railroad,109 U. S. 329, 334. Lands forming
part of an Indian grant at its date are excepted from its
operati~n. Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad v.
United States, above cited; Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195;
Kansz Paciic Railroadv. Atckiso* &c. Railroad,112 U. S.
414, 422. Unless, therefore, the act maling the grant to the
Northern Pacific Company contains "specific language, leaving no room for doubt as to the legislative will," the, lands in
controversy, being Indian lands at the date of the grant, were
excluded from the operation thereof.
II. That act contained no such provision. It did contain a
provision that the United States should extinguish, as rapidly
ps may be consistent with public policy and the welfare of the
Indians, the Indian titles to all lands falling under the operation of the act and acquired in the donation named therein.
It was evident that the route indicated in the act must, of
necessity, pass through much of the wild Indian lands of the
northwest: and, as the construction of the road would make
it expedient to open up that territory, it was but just that the
company itself should, as far as possible and proper, be put in
the same position as other companies receiving grants of lands,
that is to say: to be given as much of its grant as possible adjaceiit to.its road. From such considerations Congress thought
that the usual complete exclusion of Indian lands would
operate harshly; wherefore the provision in question was
inserted. in the act: with the purpose of enabling the company's grant to attach to what at the date of the act were
Indian lands, if in proper condition to pass at the date of

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Argument for Appellants.

definito location, as prescribed by the act; or, if not in condition 'so to pass, to furmsh the measure of indemnity in other
lands for the lands so, as it were, lost. As was said in the
"oad v. Ujited .&ates,
LZ eenwo:'t L,Law'ence &5G,&e.ston Raixo
in order io negatiVe the idea of exclusion, "this was necessary,
although the road ran through territory occupied by wild
tribes." 92 U. S. 744. But further than this the provision
was not intended to go, and does not go, except that it also
holds out a promise on the part of the government to do
what might be deemed expedient to put the Indian lands,
at the time of the definite location, in the condition requisite
to pass under the grant, viz., in such condition that the United
States should have "full title" thereto, as defined in the act.
.3Yrewlhafl v. Sanger, 92 U. S.761 ; Wolcott v. .Des Jfoine8 Co.
5 Wall. 681. These views are greatly strengthened by the
dealings of the United States with the Sisseton and Wahpeton
Indians. See 15 Stat. 506; 16 Stat. 378; and 17 Stat. 281.
III. Assuming it to be established that the act of 1864 did
not grant to the company any Indian lands to which the
Indian title should not have been extinguished at the time the
line of the road might be definitely fixed; and that the undertaking to extinguish the Indian title was intended only to put
as much of the Indian lands as the United States should think
proper in condition to pass under the grant, it is next contended that, at the time the line of the road was definitely
fixed, the lands in controversy had not been put into condition so to pass. '-m WyLe k v. .tieval, 106 U. S.360, 366-8;
eanusas Pacbi'c Railway v. .Dnmeye),, 113 U. S. 629, 634;
lValden v. E evds, 114 U. S.373, 374-6; 2Yorthee'n Pac;c
.lre7.oad v. Tiraffl County, 115 U. S. 600; tcrk v. Stavl''s, 6
Wall. 402, 418; Railrod C. v. Balt),i, 103 U. S. 426;
Pet-- JAdroadv. Bainey, 113 U. S.618.
T1 inopa & AS't.
IV. If the lands ivere subject to preemption, the record
haves no doubt of Peyonto's right to enter; and this right to
the lands oould not be prejudiced by the refusal of the local
officers to receive his declaratory statement duly presented.
Fridbie v. W7dhney, 9 'Woll. 187. 8&,1)ley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.
330. And if the action of the land officers, by erroneously
VOL. cxIx-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

construing the law, thus deprived him of a substantial right,
his title to remedy in equity is undoubted. Minnesota v.
.Batchelder, 1 Wall. 109; Sazson v. Smiley, 13 Wall 91;
.Feygusonv. _fe-Laughlin, 96 U. S. 174; .Moore v. RobbinR,
96 U. S. 530; and all doubts are to be resolved against the
company. Rice v. Rail'oad Co., 1 Black, 358, 380; leavenvyorth, Lawrence & Gavestya _Railmoad v. United States, supra.
11&. F. P. Clough for appellee.
AIR. JUSTiCE FIE LD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:

The land in controversy and other lands in Dakota, through
which the Northern Pacific Railroad was to be constructed,
was within what is known as Indian country. At the time
the act of July 2d, 1864, was passed, the title of the -Indian
tribes was not extinguished. But that fact did not prevent
the grant of Congress from operating to pass the fee of the
land to the company. The fee was in the United States.
The Indians had merely a right of occupancy, a right to use
the land subject to the dominion and control of -the goverument. The grant conveyed the fee subject to this right of
occupancy. The Railroad Company took the property with
this incumbrance. The right of the Indians, it is true, could
not be interfered with or determined except by the United
States. No private individual could invade it, and the manner, time, and conditions of its extinguishment were matters,
solely for the consideration of the government, and are not
open to contestation in the judicial tribunals. As we said in
Beecher v. Tetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 525: "It is to be presumed
that in this matter the United States would be governed by
such considerations of justice as would control a Christian
people in their treatment of an ignorant and dependent race.
Be that as it may. the propriety or justice of their action
towards the Indians with respect to their lands is a question
of governmental policys and is not a matter open to discussion
in a controversy between third parties, neither of whom de-

. BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.'

67

Opinion of the Court.

rives title from the Indians. The right of the United States
to dispose of the fee of lands occupied by them has always
been recognized by this court from the foundation of the government." In support of this doctrine several authorities were
cited in that case.
In Tha1wl v. 2Xcntosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 575, which was here
in 1823, the court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, stated
the origin of this doctrine of the ultimate title and dominion
in the United States. It was this: that, upon the discovery
of America, the nations of Europe were amxious to appropriate.as much of the country as possible, and, to avoid contests
and conflicting settlements among themselves, they established
the principle that discovery gave title to the government by
whose subjects or by whose authority it was made, against all
other. governments. This exclusion of other governments
necessarily gave to the discovering nation the sole right of
acquiring the soil from the natives, and of establishing settlements upon it. It followed that the relations which should
exist between the discoverer and the natives were to be regu•lated only by themselves. No other nation could interfere
between them. The Chief Justice remarked that "the potentates of the old world found no difficulty in convincing themselves that they made ample compensation to the inhabitants
of the new, by bestowing on them civilization and Christianity
in exchange for unlimited independence." Whilst thus claiming a right to acquire and dispose of the soil, the discoverers
recognized a right of occupancy or a usufructuary right in the
natives. They accordingly made grants of lands occupied by
the Indians, and these grants were held to convey a title to
the grantees, subject only to the Indian right of occupancy.
The Chief Justice adds, that the history of America, from its
discovery to the present day, proves the universal recognition
of this principle.
In Claek v. SmitA, 13 Pet. 195, 201, which was here in 1839,,
the patent under which the complainant became the owner in
fee of certain lands was issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1795, when the lands were in possession of the Chickasaw Indians, whose title wad not extinguished until 1819. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

was objected that the patent was void because it was issued
for lands within a country claimed by Indians, but the court
replied, "That the colonial charters, a great portion of the individual grants by the proprietary and royal governments, and
a still greater portion by the States of this Union after the
revolution, were made for lands within the Indian huntinggrounds. North Carolina. and Virginia, to a great extent, paid
their officers and soldiers of the revolutionary war by such
grants; and extinguished the arrears due the army by similar
means. It was one of the gTeat resources that sustained the
war. not only by these States but by others. The ultimate
fee (encumbered with the Indian right of occupancy) was in
the crown previous to the revolution, and in the States of the
Union afterwards, and subject to grant. This right of occupancy was protected by the political power and respected by
the courts until extinguished; when the patentee took the unencumbered fee. So this court, and the State courts, have
uniformly and often holden."
In the grant to the Plailroad Company now before us, Congress was not unmindful of the title of the Indians to the lands
granted, and it stipulated for its extinguishment by the United
States as rapidly as might be consistent with public policy and
the welfare of the Indians.
In compliance with the pledge thus given, the United States
took steps, first, to obtain from the Indians the right to construct raihoads, wagon roads, and telegraph lines across their
lands, and to make such other improvements upon them as the
interests of the govermnent might require, and afterwards to
obtain a cession of their entire title.
The right to construct railroads and telegraph lines across
their lands was secured by the treaty concluded on the 19 th
of February, 186't, ratified on the 15th of April, and proclaimed
*on the 2d of Mlay of that year. The right was in terms ceded
to the United States, but the cession must, be construed to
authorize any one deriving title from the United States to
exercise the same right. 15 Stat. 505.
For the relinquislunent of the entire title of the Indians to
the lands, an agreement was made by comnmissioners appointed

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Secretary of the Interior, under the act of CongTess of
June 7, 1872. That agreement in form was merely a proposition by the Indians to cede their title, upon certain money
considerations to be paid, and certain acts to'be performed by
the United States. Congress declined to' approve of it in its
entirety, but expressed an approval of it,so far as it related to
the cession of the title of the Indians upon the money considerations named. It refused, however, to allow an appropriation made to meet the first instalment of the money consideration to be expended, except upon the c6ndition that the Indians
sh6uld abandon the other provisioDs and ratify the agreement
thus modified. The Indians on the different reservations accepted the condition and ratified the agreement as modified those on one reservation on May 2; 1873, and those on the
other on the 19th of the same month.
The agreement, thns ratified, was forwarded to the Secretary of the Interior, and was approved by him on the 19th of
June following; and on June 22, 1874, Congress approved it
in the Indian appropriation act of that year, when it also .provided for the payment of the second instalment of the money
consideration.
This modifled agreement must be considered'as accepted,
on the part of the United States, when it was approved by
the Secretary of the Interior. Some official recognition was
necessary to satisfy those Who might be interested as to the
good faith of the alleged consent of the Indians; whether the
parties acting nominally in their behalf really represented
them, and -whether their assent was freely given after full
knowledge of the import of the legislation of Congress. Proof
of these facts was not to rest in the recollection of witnesses,
but in the official action of the officers of the government, or
in the legislation of Congress. The agreement, however, on
the part of the Indians was only to cede their title; it, was not
a, cession in terms by them. The officers of the Land Department, however, t-'eated it as an actual'cession of title from its
date- The india- s had then retired to the reservations set
apart for them by the treaty of 1867, tthus giving up th3 occupancy of th6 other lands. The relinquishment thus made was

OCTOBER TERM, 1880.
Opinion of the Court.

as effectual as a focrmal act of cession. Their right of occupancy was, in effect, abandoned, and full consideration ?or it
being afterwards paid, it could not be resumed. The agreement in terms provided that it should be binding from its
ratification. So, therefore, considered in connection with the
actual retirement of the Indians from the land, it may properly
be treated as establishing the extinguishment of their title
from its date, so far as the United States are concerned. The
definite location of the line of railroad was subsequently made.
by the company, and a map of it filed with the Secretary of
the Interior. The right of the company, freed from any
incumbrance of the Indian title, immediately attached to the
alternate sections, a portion of one of which constitutes the
premises in controversy. The defendant could not initiate
any, preemptive right to the land so long as the Indian title
remained unextinguished. The act of Congress excludes lands
in that condition from premption. Rev. Stat. § 2257.
If we are mistaken in this view, and the relinquishment of
the right of occupandy by the Indians is not to be deemed
effected until the agreement was ratified by Congress in June,
1874, notwithstanding their actual retirement from the lands,
the result would not be changed. The right of the company
to the odd sections within the limits of its grant, covered by
the Indian claim, did not depend upon the extinguishment of
that claim before the definite location of the line of the road
was made, and a map thereof filed with the Commissioner of
the General Land Office. The provisions of the third section,
limiting the grant to lands to which the United States had
then full title, they not having been reserved, sold, granted,
or otherwise appropriated, and being free from preemption or
other claims or rights, did not. exclude from the grant Indian
lands, not thus reserved, sold, or appropriated, which were
subject simply to their right of occupancy. Nearly all the
lands in the Territory of Dakota, and, indeed, a large, if not
the greater, portion of the lands along the entire route to
Puget Sound on which the road ot the company was to be
constructed, was subject to this right of occupancy by the
Indians. With knowledge of their title and its impediment

-BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIG RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

to the use of the lands by the company, Congress, made the
grant, with a stipulation to extinguish the title. It would b'e
a strange conclusion to hold that the failure of the United
States to secure the extinguishment at the time when it should
first become possible to identify the tracts granted, operated
to recali the pledge and to defeat the grant. It would require
very clear language to justify a conclusion so repugnant to
the purposes of Congress expressed in other parts of the act.
The only limitation upon the action of the United States with
respect to the title of the Indians was that imposed by the
act of Congress, that they would extinguish the title as rapidly
as might be "consistent with public policy and the welfare of,
said Indians." Subject only to that condition, so far as the
Indian title was concerned, the grant passed the fee to the
company. In our judgment, the claims and rights- mentioned
in the third section are such as are asserted to the lands by
other parties than Indians having only a right of occupancy.
Assuming that the extinguishment of the Ihdian title to
the lands in controversy may, so far as any claim to them
a'gaist the United States is concerned, be held to have
taken plaee at the date of fhe amended agreement - taking
the last date, when the Indians on the second reservation
ratified it -the defendant dhl not acquire any right ef preemption by his c6nti:-ued settlement afterwards. The act of
0ongress not only contemplates the filing by the company, in
the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, of
a map showing the definite location-of the line of its road,
and limits the grant to such alternate odd sections as have
not, at that time, been reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise
appropriated, and are free from preemption, grant, or other
claims or rights; but it also contemplates a.preliminary designation of the general route of the road, and the exclusioh
from sale, entry, or preemption of the adjoining odd sections
within forty miles on each side, until the definite location is
made. The third section declares that after the general route
shall be fixed, the President shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty miles in width on both sides of the entire line
as fast as may be required for the construction of the road,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

and that the odd sections gTanted shall not be liable to sale,
entry, or preemption, before or after they are surveyed,
except by the company. The general route may be considered as fixed when its general course and direction are determined after an actual examination of the country or from a
knowledge of it, and is designated by a line on a map showing
the general features of the adjacent country and the places
through or by which it will pass. The officers of the Land
Department are expected to exercise supervision over the
matter so as to require good faith on the part of the company
'in designating the general route, and not to accept an arbitrary and capricious selection of the line irrespective of the
character of the country through which the road is to be constructed. When the general route of the road is thus fixed in
good faith, and information thereof given to the Land Departruent by filing the map thereof with the Comnissioner of the
General Land Office, or the Secretary of the Interior, the law
vthdraws from sale or preeimption the odd sections to the
extent of forty miles on each side. The object of the law in
this particular is plain: it is to preserve the land for the company to which, in aid of the construction of the road, it is
granted. Although the act does not require the officers of
the Land Department to give notice to the local land officers
of the withdrawal of the odd sections from sale or pregmption, it has been the practice of the Department in such cases,
to formally withdraw them. It cannot be otherwise than the
exercise of a wise precaution by the Department to give such
information to the local land officers as may serve to guide
aright those seeking settlements on the public lands; and thus
prevent §ettlements and expenditures connected with them
which would afterwards prove to be useless.
Nor is there anything inconsistent with this view of the sixth
section as to the general route, in the clause in the third secti(n making the grant operative only upon such odd sections
as have not been reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and to which preemption and other rights and clahs
have not attached, when a map of the definite location has
been filed. The third section does not embrace sales and pre-

BUTTZ v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

emptions in cases where the sixth section declares that the
land shall not be subject to sale or preemption. The two
sections must be so construed as to give effect to both, if that
be practicable.
In the present case, the general route of the road was indicated by the map filed in the office of the Secretary of the
Interior on the 21st of February, 1872. It does not appear
that any objection was made to the sufficiency of the map, or
to the route designated, in any particular. Accordingly, on
the 30th of March, 1872, the Commissioner of the General

Land Office transmitted a diagram or map, showing this route,
to the officers of the local land office in Dakota, and by direction of the Secretary ordered them to withhold from sale,
location, pre~mption, or homestead entry all surveyed and unsurveyed odd numbered sections of public land falling within
the limits of forty miles, as designated on the map.
This notification did not add to the force of the act itself,
but it gave notice to all parties seeking to make a preemption
settlement that lands within certain defined limits might be
appropriated for the road. At that time the lands were subject to the Indian title. The defendant could not, therefore,
as ah'eady stated, have then initiated any preemption right
by his settlement; and the law cut him off from any subsequent prefmption. The withdr-iwal of the odd sections mentioned from sale or pre~mption, By the sixth section of the
act, after the general route of the road was fixed, in the manner
stated, was never annulled.
It follows that the defendant could never afterwards acquire any rights against the company by his settlement.

Jludment a

rfflned.

