CONSOLIDATED SAFETY-VALVE CO. V. KUNKLE. 45
Opinion of the Court.

CONSOLIDATED SAFETY-VALVE COMPAN-Y
v. KUNKLE.
APPEAL FROI THE C1RCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued October 27, 28, 18S6. -Decided

November 15, 1856.

In view of the construction given in Consolidated Safety-T-alve Co. v.
C,osby SLant-Gauge and Valve Co., 113 U. S. 157, to the claim of letterspatent No. 58,294, granted to George Mr. Richardson, September 25th,
1866, for an improvement in safety-valves, and to the claim of letterspatent No. 85,963, granted to said Richardson, July 19th, 1860, for an
improvement in safety-valves for steam-boilers or generators, the defendant's safety-valves in this case, having no huddling chamber, and no
strictured orifice, were held not to infringe either patent.

In equity to recover for infringement of letters-patent.
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.11>. Thomas

The

irlamz Cla'ke for appellant.

Jfi. James Z. , ymond for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE DLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal by the plaintiff in a suit in equity to recover
for the infringement of two letters-patent, from a decree dismissing the bill. The suit was brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, by the
Consolidated Safety-Vralve Company, a Connecticut corporation, against Erastus B. Kunkle, on letters-patent No. 58,294,
granted to George W. Richardson, September 25th, 1866, for
an improvement in safety-valves, and on other kltters-patent,
No. 85,013, granted to the same person, January 19th, 1869,.
for an improvement in safety-valves for steam-boilers or generators. These are the same two patents which were the subject-matter of the litigation involved in the case of Consolidaled
Safety-faire Com)any v. Crosby teaBm-Gauge & Falve Comjany, decided by this court at October Term, 1884, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

reported in 113 U.S. 157. The specifications. and claims and
drawings of the two patents are set forth fully in the report,
of that case. The patents were, both of them, held to be valid
and to have been infringed.
The claim of the patent of 1866, "A safety-valve, with' the
circular or annular flange or lip e c, constructed in the manner,
or substantially in the manner, shown, so as to operate as and
for the purpose herein describedI" was construed as covering
"a valve in which are combined an initial area, an additional
area, a huddling chamber beneath the additional area, and a
strictured orifice leading from the huddling chamber to the
open air, the orifice being proportioned to the strength of the
spring, as directed."
The claim of the patent of 1869, "1The combination of the
surface beyond the seat of the safety-valve, with the means
herein described for regulating or adjusting the area of the
passage for the escape of steam, substantially as and for the
purpose described," was construed as covering "the combination with the surface of the huddling chamnber, and the strictured orifice, of a screw-ring to be moved up or down to obstruct
such orifice more or less, in the manner, described."
The decree in the preseit case was. made in January, 1883,
and proceeded, as it states, on the ground that the defendant's
valves did not infriifge the patents. This also appears from
the decision of the Circuit Court, relorted in 14 Fed. Rep.
'732. As the defendant's valves have no huddling chamber,
and no strictured orifice leading from a huddling chamber to
the open air, we are of opinion that they do not infringe either
of the patents.
.Decree affl)rmed.

