CROW v. OXFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

CROW v. OXNFORD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE rNrrED STATES FOR Tri
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted October 25, 1886.-Decided November 29, 1886.

In a suit on bonds of the same issue as those adjudged to be invalid, in
1cClure v. Township of Oxford, 94 U. S. 429, it was sought to uphold
the bonds as issued under the general act of Kansas, of .farch 2d, 1872,
c. 68, the bonds purporting, by their face, to have been issued under
the special act of March 1st, 1872, c. 158. As the general act required certain proceedings to be taken before the bonds could be lawfully isstied, and the town records showed that those proceedings were
not taken, and that all that was done was done under the special act, the
possibility that the bonds were issued under the general act was excluded, and the recitals in the bonds could not aid the plaintiff.
The case distinguished from Corrmssioners v. January, 94 U. S., 202, and
Anderson County v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227.
The certificate of the auditor of the State, endorsed on each bond, that it
was "regularly and legally issued," purporting to have been made in
accordance with the general act, could not-aid the plaintiff, because the
bonds were not such as the auditor was authorized by that act to register
and certify.
The case distinguished, in that respect, from Lewis v. Commissionsrs, 105
U. S. 739.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.3fk. S. E. Brown for plaintiff in error.
3f. J. TWade _cDanald for defendant in error.
Mr.

JUsTICE BLAToHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the UTited
States for the District of Kansas, by Moses R. Crow against
the Township of Oxford, in the County of Sumner, and State
of Kansas, to recover the amount of ten bonds, of $500 each,
issued by that township, and 140 coupons, of $25 each, cut
from those bonds, being in all $8500. It was tried before the

court, without a jury, a special finding of facts was made, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

a judgment was rendered for the defendant. The plaintiff
has sued out a writ of error..
The defendant, on the 15th of April, 1872, made twenty
bonds for $60.each. Coupons cut from some of those bonds
were-the subject of the suit of 2fcX lre v. Townsh 2 of Oxford, 94 U. S. 429. The bonds and coupons involved in the
present suit. are all of the forms bf the bond and coupon set
out in the report of the M1[cClure case, and each bond has endorsed on it, of the date of April 25th, 1872, a. certificate duly
signed by, and attested by the seal of offie of the auditor
of the State of Kansas, the certificate being in the form of
that contained in -the report of the McClure case.
The bonds were made for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a bridge. across the Arkansas River, at the town
of Oxford, in the township of Oxford; and were issued and
delivered in payment for eighty five shares, of $100 each, of
the stock of the Oxford Bridge Company, a corporation which
erected the bridge, for which the township subscribed, and
which it has ever since owned and held. The township paid
interest on the bonds up to April 15th, 1877. It received dividends on the stock, amounting to about $650 per annum, from
October, 1872, till June, 1876. The following proceedings
were had-and taken by the trustee, treasurer, and clerk of the
township, on the following dates, as shown by the public
records of the township:
"MAncH 8T, 1872.
"Township board met.
"Present: George T. Walton, trustee, and John H. Folks.
clerk.
"The fact being known to the clerk that an Act authorizing
a majority of the township board to. issue bonds for $10,000,
and to subscribe stock in the Oxford Bridge Company, after
,giving notice thereof, and the voters of Oxford township
voting thereon, was passed and approved on the 1st day of
Marcb 1872, and believing that, - owing to the danger of a
June freshet, injuring or preventing work and increasing the
cost of said bridge, and believing the law only required 20
days' notice, it was ordered that such notice be given imme-

CROW v. OXFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

diately, which notice was given by written notices posted on
Clark's store. on the post-office at Stanton's store, and at the
school-house in Oxford, believed to be three of the most public
places in the township.
"GEORGE T. WALTON, Truste.JOHN H. FOLKS, glerk."
"iM.AcH 24TH, 1872.

"At a special meeting of the board of Oxford township, held
.this day - George T. Walton, trustee, and John H. Folks
present- a copy of the- Commonwealth was presented, in
which the law relating to the bridge bonds was published, in
which it was made necessary to give 30 days' notice thereon.
It was ordered that said election be .held on the 8th day of
April, - 1872, and additional notices were appended to the
original notice posted as above stated, so continuing the time
until the said 8th day of April.
"GEORGE T. WALTON, Trwuta.
JOHN H. FOLKS, lerk."
"APRIL 8TH, 1872.
"At a special election held in pursuafce of notices and of the
Act of Mirch 1st, 1872, authorizing the trustee, treasurer, and
clerk, or any two of them, of the township of Oxford, county
of Sumner, and State of Kansas, to subscribe stock in the
Oxford Bridge Company to the amount of $10,000, to aid in
the construction of a bridge across the Arkansas .River, at
Oxford, in said county and State, and to issue bonds of said
township in payment thereof: George T. Walton, Edward
Slay, Sr., and James Thompson, judges; and James 0. Carpenter and W. H. Knapp, clerks. Whole number of electors
voting, 140 ; for the bridge and bonds, 126 ; against the bridge
and bonds, 14. Walton to return poll-books.
"GEORGE T. WALTON , Tmistee.
JOHN H. FOLKS, Clerk."
1872.
"At a meeting of the trustee and clerk of Oxford township,
to take into consideration the subscribing of stock in the Oxford
Bridge Company - present, George T. Walton, trustee, and
"APRIL 10Tr,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

John T. Folks, clerk -it
was ordered, that the said George
T. Walton, trustee, and John I. Folks, clerk, do subscribe to the
capital stock of the Oxford Bridge Company for such amount
of capital stock as the ten thousand-dollar bonds may purchase,
not to be less than eighty three stares of said stock, and the
said George T. Walton and John Hf. Folks are further authorized to vote the number of votes said township shall be entitled
to, at any meeting of stockholders of -said bridge company,
during their continuance in office, in pursuance of law. Also
ordered, that a copy of said law be sealed in this book.
"GEORGE T. WALTON, Trustee.
JOHN H=. FOLKS, Clerk."
"APRIL 12TH,

1872.

"At a meeting of the board of Oxford township, George T.
Walton, trustee, T. E. Clark, treasurer, and John H. Folks,
clerk, were present, and subscribed the said bonds' to the
Oxford Bridge & Ferry Company, and participated in the
stockholders' meeting of said company, for and on behalf of
the said township; and George T. Walton, T. E. Clark, and Xohn
H. Folks were elected directors of said Oxford Bridge & Ferry
Company. Said township board authorized William J. Hobson 'to procure the printing of suitable bonds, and also authorized said William J. Hobson to contract the sale of said bridge
bonds at not less than 83 cents, and such higher amount as he
may be able to procure; and it was further agreed by said
William J. Hobson, in behalf of C. Baker & Co., that, if he
shall not be able to sell said bonds for 83 cents or over, the
said C. Baker & Co. will take said bonds in payment for the
township stock, at 83 cerits on the dollar, and make. a good
and sufficient bond to Oxford township, conditioned that said
company will build said bridge, in all respects, in conformity
to c6ntract this day signed by the said C. Baker & Co. and the
directors of said Oxford Bridge & Ferry Company, said bond
to be delivered to the township board of Oxford township,
and the bridge bonds to be delivered to said William J. Hob
son as soon as may be after said bonds are printed.
"GEORGE T. WALTON, Trustee.
JOHN H. FOLKS, C7:rk."

'CROW v. OXFORD;
Opinion of the Couit.

1o other proceedings were had or taken by or before the
township board in respect to issuing the bonds, except that, on
April 8th, 1872, an. election was held in the township on the
question, with the result set forth on the face of the bonds.
The bridge was erected by the corporation, and was maintained
as a toll bridge until it was destroyed by water on June 9th,
1876.
The plaintiff owns and holds the bonds and coupons sued
on, having purchased them before their maturity, for value,
without actual notice of any defence to them or of any defect
or infirmity in the proceedings for issuing them.
The petition of the plaintiff alleged that the bonds were
issued in pursuance of an election held in the township in conformity with an act of the Legislature of Kansas, -passed
March 2d, 1872, c. 68.
A special act of the Legislature of Kansas, approved March
1st, 1872, c. 158, entitled as set forth on the face of the
bonds, authorized the trustee, treasurer, and clerk of Oxford
township, (or any two of them,) to issue the bonds of the township, to the amount of $10,000, for the purpose of aiding in
building such bridge. It required that the bonds should be in
sums not less than $500, payable in ten years from the date of
issuing, with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum,
payable semi-annually, in the City of New York; that interest
coupons should be attached, signed by the trustee and attested
by the clerk; that the bonds should contain a statement of
the purpose for which they were issued, and the result of the
vote of the inhabitants of the township on the question of issuing the bonds; that before any of the bonds should be issued,
the question of issuing them should be submitted to the legal
voters of the township, at an election for that purpose; that
the time and place of holding the election should be designated
by the trustee, treasurer, and clerk, (or any two of them,) "by
giving at least thirty days' noti~e, by posting written or printed
notices thereof in three of the -most public places in said township; and that if, at the election, a majority of the votes should
be for the bridge and bonds, the bonds should be issued."
Section 7 of the act was as follows: "This Act shall take

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

effect from and after its publication in the .Znsas "WeekZy
Commonwealth." It was published in the Hansas "'Tfeeklj
Commonwealth, March 21st, 1872.
The act passed March 2d, 1872, c. 68, referred to in the
petition- as the act in conformity with which the election
was held in pursuance of which the bonds were issued, was
an act approved March 2d, 1872, ยง 24 of which provided
that it should "take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the fansas WFeekly Commonwealth." It was
published in the Kaneas Weekly Cornmnonwealtlt, March 7th,
1872. It bore the title set forth in the auditor's certificate
endorsed on the bonds, and. was the act' therein referred to.
It was a general law applicable to all counties, cities, and townships. It embraced bridges, railroads, and water-power. It
authorized the issuing of bonds to build bridges, and also as
donations, and to pay for stock in aid of railroads and bridges.
It graded the amount of bonded debt by taxable property. It
allo ed bonds of not less than $100, required them to be payable in the City of New York, in not less than five nor more
than,30 years from their date, with interest not to exceed 10
per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, on coupons, the
bonds, if issued by a township, to be signed by the township
trustee and attested by the township clerk. The bonds could
not be issued unless ordered by a vote of the qualified electors
of the township. To procure such vote, a petition was required,
signed by at least one fifth of the voters of the township, to be
presented to the trustee, clerk, and treasurer, asking for a vote;
and they were to call an election to be held within 30 days
thereafter, and to give rotice of it by publication, for at least
-three consecutive weeks, in each newspaper published in the
township, and, if none were published, by posting up written
or ptinted notices in at least five public places in each voting pre-.
cinct in the township, for at least 20 days preceding the election,
thQ notice to set forth the time hnd place of holding the election, the bridge proposed to be built, and whether the aid was
to be by donation or taking stock.
The question of the validity of the bonds involved in the
McClure case was there passed upon by this court. No ques-

CROW v. OXFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

tion was there- presented as to their validity under the act of
March 2d, 1$72, or as to their having been issued under that
act, and not under the act of March 1st, 1872. It was there
held, that, as the act of March 1st, 1872, did not go into effect
till it was published, and it was not published till March 21st,
1872, and required 30 days' notice of the election, and as the
,bonds -were dated April 15th, 1842, and stated that the election
was held April 8th, 1872, and gave the title of the act, and
the date of its approval, their invalidity appeared on their face,
in connection with .the terms of the act, because 30 days had
not elapsed between the time the law took effect and the day
of the election.
It is contended for the plaintiff in the present case, that, as
the act of March 2d, 187%, took effect on March 7th, 1872, the
day before the commencement of the proceedings for an election, and there was an interval of full 30 days between March
8th, 1872, and April 8th, 1872, the day of the election, there
was legislative authority under the act of March 2d; 1872, for
all that was done. It is urged that in the McClure case no
reference was made, in the record or in the. arguments of counsel, to the latter act, and that the question, as to the validity
of the bonds under that act, is not controlled by the decision
in the McClure case. The !vhole point of the contention in
favor of the validity of the bonds is based on the proposition,
that the bonds were in fact issued under the authority of, and
in compliance with, the provisions of the act of March 2d,
1872, instead of the act of March 1st, 1872.
The plaintiff, being referred by the bonds to the act, of
March 1st, 1872, as the statute under which they were issued,
was bound, as was said in the McClure case, to take notice of
the statute and of all its requirements. If, finding the bonds
invalid under that statute, as he is held by law to have
done, he claims the right to refer to the act of March 2d, 1872,
as the source of authority, because that act was in force from
March 7th, 1872, he was bound to take notice of the requirements of that act. Looking at them, he was met by the fact
that that act required that the proceedings should be initiated
by a, petition of voters to the trustee, clerk, and treasurer of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

-

the township, and be followed by the publication of the notice
of election for three consecutive weeks in each newspaper, if'
any, published in ue township, and, if none were published,
then by the posting of written or printed notices in at least
five public places in each voting precinct in the township, for
at least twenty dfys preceding the election. These proceedings were all variant from those to be had under the act of
LMarch 1st, 1872, which did not require any prior petition of
voters, nor any newspaper publication of the notice, but only
a posting of notices, and those only in three public places in
the township, and not in five public places in each voting precinct in the township. Looking at the public records of the
townshiip, he was met by the following facts : The proceedings
made no reference to the act of March 2d, 1872, or to any
petition of voters, but stated that they were taken, under the
act of March 1st, 1872, and that the officels gave thirty days'
notice of election br posting written notices in only three
public places in the township. Even though the plaintiff purchased the bond and coupons, as the finding of facts says,
," before their maturity, for value, without actual notice of any
defence to them, or of any defect or infirmity in the proceedings for issuing them," he was, in the absence of such recitals
in the bonds as would protect him, bound by the information
open to him in the official records of the officers whose names
were signed to the bonds. The recitals in the bonds could not
avail him, because, as to the only act recited, that of. March
1st, 1872, that act was not in force long enough before the
election to allow the required notice to be given; and, as
to the act of March 2d, 1872, the records, which showed proceedings not in conformity with it, and the bonds, by the
absence of all reference to it, and by their recitals as to the
act 6f March 1st, 1872, excluded the possibility that the town
officers issued the bonds, or intended to issue them, under the
authority of, or in pursuance of, the act of March 2d, 1872.
The statement in the bonds that they were issued "in pursuance of a vote of the qualified electors of said township, had
an election held therein on the eighth day of April, A.D. 1872,
which said election resulted in a majority of 112 in favor of

CROW v. OXFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

issuing said bonds, in a total vote of 140," can refer only to an
election held under the act of March 1st, 1872, before recited
in the bond by its title and date, which was an illegal election
for want of due notice; and the records showed that the election was held under that act.
The case of Anderson County v. .BeaZ, 113 U.S. 227, is relied
on by the plaintiff, but does not aid him. In,that case, although the bonds recited the wrong act, the records of the
county officers who issued the bonds did not show any want
of compliance with the later act, but showed a substantial
compliance with it, and in fact the proceedings were had and
were intended to be had under it. The reference in the bonds
to the earlier act as the source of authority was thus a mere
clerical error. In the case at bar, the reference in the 1onds
to the act of March 1st, 1872, was not a clerical error, and
the proceedings were intended to be had under that act, and
the records show a failure to comply with the act of March 2d,
1872, and an attempt to comply only with the act of March
1st, 1872. In the Anderson County case, legislative authority
having been given for the issue of bonds by a statute under
which the authorities in fact acted, the recital in the bonds,
that the bonds were issued in pursuance of the vote of the
electors, was effective to cover any irregularity as to notice,
which did not appear of record, but was sought to be proved
aliunde. In the present case, no such doctrine is applicable.
In (Cor issioners v. Janua'y, 94 U. S. 202, an act was
recited in the bonds which had been repealed -bya later act.
The order for the election was made while the earlier act was
in force. The election was held after its repeal, and after the
new act went into force, but there was no new order of election. Otherwise, all the proceedings after the new act went
into force were in conformity with it. It was held that a
recital in the bonds, that they were issued "in pursuance of,
and in accordance with, the vote* of a majority of the qualifled electors of the county," "at a regular election, held on"
a day named, estopped the county from raising the objection
of the want of an order under the new act, although the old
act, and not the new act, was recited in the bonds, as the

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

statute authority. We think that case is distinguished from
the present one by the fact, that in it all the proceedings after
the new law took effect were in conformity with it, while in
the case at bar, none of the proceedings were in conformity
with the act of March 2d, 1872.
Another question is presented in the case before us. Section 14 of the act of March 2d, 1872, provides that the
holder of bonds issued under it shall; within 30 days after
their delivery, present them to the auditor of the State for registration, and that he shall, on being satisfied that the bonds
have been issued according to the provisions of thd act, and
that the signatures thereto of the officers signing the same
are genuine, register them in a book, "and shall, under his
seal of office, certify upon such bonds the fact that they have
been regularly and legally issued; that the signatures' thereto
are, genuine; and that such bonds have been registered in
his office according to law." As each of the bonds in suit
has' endorsed on it a certificate under the hand and sal of
office of the auditor of the State of Kansas, dated April 25th,
1872, certifying that it "has been regularly and legally issued;
that the signatures thereto are genuine; and that such bond
has been duly registered" in his office, in accordance with the
act of 'March 2d, 1872, giving its title, it is contended, for
the defendant, that this certificate concludes all questions as
to the regularity and legality of the issuing of the bonds.
In 3felure v. Townhi of Qoford, although the record
set forth at length the certificate of the auidtor on the bonds,
and the brief of the plaintiff in error contended that such
certificate was a flnb! and conclusive determination that the
b6nds were regularly and legally issued, according to the provisions of the act of March 1st, 1872, this court, in its opinion,:made no reference to that point.. It was argued in that
case, for the defendant in error, that the act of March 2d,
1872, as to registration, did not apply to the bonds, as bonds
issued under the act of March 1st; 1872, and that, if it did,
the registration could not, as a recital, aid the want of authority disclosed by the face of the bond.
But now it is contended that the- provision for registration

'CROW, ). OXFORD.,
Opinion of the Court.

in the act of March 2d, 1872, settles the question, that the
bonds were bond issued under that act, and were "'xegla y
and legally issued," according .to the provisions of 'that act.
The case of Zewis v. Cornmssioners, 105 'U. S. 739, is cited
as sustaining that view. But we do not so regard it. In
that case, ยง 14 of the Kansas act of March 2d, 1872, was
under consideration in regard to the bonds of a county -in
Kansas, issued, in fact, under that act, each of 'which had.
endorsed on it a certificate by the State auditor, that it had
been "regularly and legally issued," and that it had beeni registered in his office according to law. A defence was set up
against a bona die holder of the bonds, that they had beeli
issued. in violation of a condition contained in the popular
vote, and were fraudulently parted with by the person in
whose: hands they were put, to be deposited with. the State
treasurer in escrow, to await a compliance with the condition.
This court held, as to the effect of the registration, that the
deterniination by the auditor involved an investigation as to
every fact essential to the validity of the bonds; that 'the bona
fide purchaser was not bound, under the circumstances disclosed in that case, to~find out whether the auditor -had ascertained hll the facts ; and that the auditor was authorized by.
the statute to inquire whether the bonds were, as a matter of
fact, of the class which, under the act, should have passed
through the hands of the State treasurer, (it being required
by the act that some should do so, and others not,) and, also,
whether the conditions'on which they were deliverable hadbeen perfformed. But there is nothing in the decision which
carries the doctrine further than that the'auditor is authorized
to ascertain whether the facts exist which the statute requires.
should exist, to make a valid issue of bonds. That this is so,
is shown by the case of -Dixon County v. Field, 111 TI. S. 83.,
In that case, there was an innocent holder of bonds, of' a
county in Nebraska, and on each bond was endorsed a certifi- '
cate of the State' auditor that the bond.was "regulafly and
legally issued-." :As against an objection that the bonds were
issued in violation of a.restriction in -the Constitition of the'
State as to the amount of bonds. to be issued, it was held byvOL. cx-15

