436. .

,OCTOBlER '_B1

, 1886.

Syllabus.

retenee of trying him for an offence for which ifxtradition
could be claimed, so as to try him for one for whih it could
.not, it might furnish just cause of complaint on the part
of the country which had been deceived, but it would be a
matter entirely for adjustment between the two countries,
and -which could in no way enure to the benefit of the accused
except' through the instrumentality of the government that
had been induced to give him up.
As to ยง 5275 of the Revised Statutes I have only to say
that, in my opinion, it neither* adds to the rights of th1e
accused nor changes the effect of the treaty as a part, of the
law of the United States. The accused was surrendered by
Great Britain to the United States, and the United States are
alone responsible to that country for whatever may be done
with him in consequence of his surrender. He was delivered
into the possession of the United States, and, in my opinion,,
that possession may at any time be regained by the United
States under this statute from the State, or its authorities, so
long as -theacclised remains in custody, if it should be necessary in order to enable them to keep their faith with Great
Britain in respect to the' surrender.
I do not care to elaborate the argument on either of these
questions. My ohly purpose is to state generally the grounds
of my dissent.

KER v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPlREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued April 27, 1886. -Decided

December 6,1886.

'A plea to an indictment in a State court, that the defendant has been
brought from a foreign country to this country by proceedings which
are a violation of a treaty between that country and the United States,
and which are forbidden bythat treaty, raises a question, if the right
asserted by the plea is denied, on which this court can review, by writ
of error, the judgment of the State court.
But where the prisoner has been kidnapped in -the foreign country and
brought by force against his will within the jurisdiction of the State

KER v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the.Court.
whose law he has violated, with no reference to an extradifioii treaty,
though one existed, and no proceeding or attempt to proceed undet th'etreaty, this court can give no relief, for these facts do not establisli any
-right under the Constitution, or laws, or treaties of the United States.
The treaties of extradition to which the United States are parties do inot
guarantee a fugitive from the justice of one of the countries an asylum
iin the other. They do not give such person any greater or more sacred
right of asylum than he had before. They only make provision that for
certain crimes he shall be deprived of that asylum and surrendered to
justice, and they prescribe the mode in which this shall be done.
The trespass of a kidnapper, unauthorized by either of the governments,
and not professing to act under authority of either, is not a case pro:
vided for in the treaty, and the remedy is by a proceeding. against him
by the government whose law he'violates, or by the party injured.
How far such forcible transfer of the defendant, so as to bring him within
the jurisdiction of the State where the offence was committed, may be set
up against the right to try him, is the prevince of the State court to decide,
and presents no question in which this court can.rdview its decision.

The plaintiff in error, being convicted of embezzlement in a
State court of Illinois, sued out this writ of error. The Federa question, which makes the case, is stated in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. (2 Stuart Beattie for plaintiff in error. -Jr..Robert
lervey was with him on the brief.
. . George .Hint,Attorney General of Illinois, and .2/3. P.
S. Gros&cp for defendant in errbr. .&r. Leonard Swett was
with them on the brief.
Mn." JusTIcE MI LER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here by a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Illinois. The plaintiff in error, Frederick
M. Ker, was indicted, tried, and convicted in the Criminal
Court of Cook County, in that State, for larceny. The indictment also included charges of embezzlemen-t. - During the proceedings connected with" the trial the defendant presenited.a
plea in abatement, which, on demurrer, was overruled, and
the defendant refusing to plead further, a plea of not guity
was entered for him, according to the statute of that State, by

OCTOBEIR TER,

,1886.

Opinioh of the Court.

order of the court, on which the trial and conviction took
place...
The substance of the plea in abatement, which is a very long
one, is, that the defendant, being in the city of Lima, in Peru,
,after the offences were charged to have been conmitted, was
in fact kidnapped and brought to this country against his will.
His statement is, that, application having been made by the
parties who were injured, Governor Hamilton, of Illinois, made
his requisition, in writing, to ,the Secretary of State of the
United States, for a warrant requesting the extradition of the
defendant, by the Executive of the 1Republic of Peru, from
that country to Cook County; that, on the first day of March,
,1883, the President of the United States issued his warrant, in
due form, directed to Henry G. Julian, as messenger, to re- ceive the defenda t from the authorities of Peru, upon a
char-ge of larceny, u compliance with the treaty between the
United States and ieru on that subject; that the said Julian,
having 'the necessary papers with him, arrived in Lima, but,
without presenting them to any officer of the Peruvian government, or making any demand on that government for the surrender of Ker, forcibly and with violence arrested him, placed
him on board the United States vessel Essex, in the harbor of
Callao, kept him a close prisoner until the arrival of that vessel at Honolulu, where, after some detention, he was transferred in the same forcible manner on board another vessel, to
wit, the City of Sydney, in which he was cafried a prisoner to
San Francisco, in the State of California. The plea then
states, that, before his arrival in that city, Governor Hamilton
had made a requisition on the Governor of California, under
the law and Constitution of the United States, for the delivery
up of the defendant, as a fugitive from justice, who had escaped to that State on account of the same offences charged
in the requisition on Peru and in the indictment in this case.
The requisition arrived, as the plea states, and was presented
to the Governor of California, who made his order for the surrender of the defendant to the person appointed by the )Governor-of Illinois, namely, one Frank Warner, on the 25th day
of June, 1883. The defendant arrived in the city of San

KER v. ILLINOIS.

439

Opinion of the Court.

Francisco on the 9th day of July thereafter, and was immediately placed in the custody of Warner, under the order of 'the
Governor of California, and, still a prisoner, was transferred
by him to Iook County, where the process of the Criminal
Court was served upon him and he was held to answer the
indictment already mentioned.
The plea is very full of averments that the defendant protested,,and was refused any opportunity whatever, from the
time of his arrest in Lima until he was delivered over to the
authorities of Cook County, of communicating with any person
or seeking any advice or assistance in regard to procuring his
release by legal process or otherwise; and he allegeg that this
proceeding is a violation of the provisions of the treaty between the United States and-Peru, negotiated in 1870, which
was finally ratified by the two governments and proclaimed
by the President of the United States, July 27, 1874. 18 Stat.
719.
The judgment of the Criminal Court of Cook County,
illinois, was carried by writ of error to the Supreme Court of
that State, and there affirmed, to which judgment the present
writ of error is directed. The assignments of error made here
are as follows:
"First. That said Supreme Court of Illinois erred in affirming the judgment of said Criminal Court of Cook County,
sustaining the demurrer to plaintiff in error's plea to the jurisdiction of said Criminal Court.
"Second. That said Supreme Court of Illinois erred in its
judgment aforesaid, in failing to enforce the full faith and
credit of the Federal treaty with the Republic of Peru, invoked by plaintiff in error in his said plea to- the jurisdiction
of said Crimninal Court."
The grounds upon which the jurisdiction of this court is
invoked may be said to be three, though from the briefs and
arguments of counsel it is doubtful whether, in point of fact,
more than one is relied upon. It is contended in several places
in the brief that the proceedings in the arrest in Peru, and the
extradition and delivery to the authorities of Cook County,
were not "due process of law," and we may suppose, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

it ip not so alleged, that this reference is to that clause of Articie
XIV of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United
St..tes which declares that no Siate shall deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property " without due process of law."
The "due process of law" here guaranteed is complied with
when the party is-regularly indicted by.the proper grand jury
in the State court, has a trial according to the forms and
modes prescribed for such trials, and when, in that trial and
pioceedings, he is deprived of no rights to which he is lawfully
entitled. We do not intend to say that there -niay not be .proceedings previous to the trial, in regard to which the prisoner
could invoke in some manner the provisions of this clause of
the Constitution, but, for mere irregularities in the manner in
which he may be brought into the custody of the law, we do
not think he is entitled to say that he should not be tried at all
for the crime with whic- 'eis charged in a regular indictment.
He may be arrested for a very heinous offence by persons
without any warrant, or witb :ut any previous complaint, and
brought before a proper officer, and this may be in some sense
said to be "without due process of law." But it would hardly
be claimed, that after the case had been investigated and the
defendant held by the proper authorities to answer for the
crime, he could plead that he was first arrested "without
due process of law." So here, when found within the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois and liable to answer for a crime
against the laws of -that State, unless there was some positive
provision of the Constitution or of the laws of this country
violated in bringing him into court, it is not easy to see how
lie can say that he is there "without due process of law,"
within the meaning of the constitutional provision.
So, also, the objection is made that the proceedings between
the authorities of the State of Illinois and those of the State
of California were not in accordance with the act of Cbngress
on that subject, and especially that, at the time the papers and
warrants were issued from the governors of California and Illinois, the defendant was not within the State of California and
was not there a fugitive from justice. This argument is not
much pressed by counsel, and was scarcely noticed in the Su-

KER v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion. of the Court.

preme Court of Illinois, but the effort here is to connect it as
a part of the continued trespass and violation of law which accompanied the -transfer from Peru to Illinois. It is sufficient
to say, in regard to that part of this case, that when the governor of one State voluntarily surrenders a fugitive from the
justice of another State to answer for his alleged offcnces, it is
hardly a proper subject of inquiry on the trial of the case to
examine into the details of the proceedings by which the demand was wade by the one State and the manner in which it
was responded to by the other. The case does not stand,
when the party is in court and required to plead to an indictment, as it would have stood upon a writ of habeas eoi.pts in
California, or in any States through which he was carried in
the progress of his extradition, to test the authority by which
he was held; and we can see in the mere fact that the papers
under which he was taken into custody in California were prepared and ready for him on his arrival from Peru, no sufficient
reason for an abatement of the indictment against him in Cook
County, or why he should be discharged from custody without
a trial.
But the main proposition insisted on by counsel for plaintiff
in error in this court is, that by virtue of the treaty of extradition with Peru the defendant acquired by his residence.in that
country a right of asylum, a right'to be free from molestation
for the crime committed in Illinois, a positive right in him that
he should only be forcibly removed from Peru to the State of
Illinois in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, and
that this right is one which he can assert in the courts of the
United States in all cases, whether the removal took place under proceedings sanctioned by the treaty, or under proceedings which were in total disregard of that treaty, amounting to
an unlawful and unauthorized kidnapping.
This view of the subject is presented in various forms and
repeated in various shapes, in the argument of counsel. The
fact that this. question was raised in the Supreme Court of
Illinois may be said to confer jurisdiction on'this court, because,
in making this claim, the defendant asserted a right under a
treaty of the United States, and, whether the assertion was

1442

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

well founded or not, this court has jurisdiction to decide it;
and we proceed to inquire into it.
. There is no language in this treaty, or in any-other
treaty
made by this country on the subject of extradition, of which
we are aware, which says in terms that a party fleeing from
the UTnited States to escape punishment for crime .becomes
has
thereby entitled to an asylum in the country to which heonce
would at
fled; indeed, the absurdity of such a proposition
prevent the making of a treaty of that kind. It will not be
for a moment contended that the government of Peru could
not have ordered Ker out of the country on his arrival, or
At any period of his residence there. If this could be done,
What becoriaes of his right of asylum?
-Nor can it be doubted that the government of Peru, cauld
of its own accord, without any demand from the United. Sta. s,
'have surrendered Ker to an agent of the State of Illinois, and.
that such surrender would have been valid within the dominions of Peru. It is idle, therefore, to claim that, either by express terms or by implication, there is given to a fugitive from
justice in one of these countries any right to remain and reside
in the other; and if the right of asylum means anything it
must mean this. The right of the government of Peru voluntarily to give a party in Ker's condition an asylum-in that
country, is quite a different thing from the right in him to
demand and insist upon security in such an asylum. The
treaty, so far as it regulates the right of asylum at all, is intended to limit this right in the case of one who is proved to
be a criminal fleeing from justice, so that, on proper demand
and proceedings had therein, the government of the country
of the asylum shall deliver him up to the coufitry where the
crime was committed. And to this extent, and to this alone,
the treaty does regulate or inpose a restriction upon the right
of the gzovernment of the country of the asylun to protect the
criminal from removal therefrom.
In the case before us, the plea shows, that, although Julian
Swent t' Peru with the necessary papers to procure the extradition of Ker under the treaty, those papers remained in his
pocket and were never brought to light in Peru; that no steps

ZER v. ILLINOIS.
Opihion of *the Court.

were taken under them.; and that Julian, in seizing upon the
person of Ker and carrying him out of the territory of Peru
into the United States, did not act nor profess to act under
the treaty. In fact, that treaty was not called into operation,
was not relied upon, was not made the pretext of arrest, and
the facts show that it was a clear case of kidnapping within
'the dominions of Peru, without any pretence of authority
under the treaty or from the government of the United States.
Inthecaseof UnitedlStatesv.1?auscher,just decided, ante,407,
and considered -with this, the effect of extradition proceedings
under a treaty was very fully considered, and it was there
held, that, when a party was duly surrendered, by proper proceedings, under the treaty of 1842 with Great Britain, he came
to this country clothed with the protection which the nature
of such proceedings and the true construction of the treaty
gave him. One of the rights with which he was thus clothed,
both in regard to himself and in good faith to the country'
which had sent him here, was, that he should be tried for no
other offence than the one for which he was delivered under
the extradition proceedings., if Ker had been brought to. this
country by proceedings under the treaty of 187044 with Peru,
it seems probable, from the statement of the case in the record,
that he might have successfully pleaded that he was extradited
for larceny, and convicted by the verdict of a jury of embezzlement; for the statement in the plea is, that the demand made
by the President of the United States, if it had been, put in
operation, was for an extradition for larceny, although some
forms of embezzlement are mentioned in the treaty as subjects
of extradition. But it is quite a different case when the plaintiff in error comes to this country in the manner in which he
was brought here, clothed with no rights which a proceeding.
under the treaty could have given him, and no duty which
this country owes to Peru or to him under the treaty..
W6 think it very clear, therefore, that, in invoking the jurisdiction of this court upon the ground that the prisoner was,
denied a right conferred upon him by a treaty of the United

States, he has failed to establish the existence of any such
right.

.44-1,

OCTOBER TERI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

The question of how far his forcible seizure in another country, and transfer by violence, force, or fraud, to this country,
could be made available to resist trial in the State court, for the
offence now charged upon him, is one which we do not feel
called upon to decide, for in that transaction we do not see
th'at the Constitntion, or laws, or treaties of the United States
guarantee him any protection. There afe authorities of the
highest reVpjectability which hold that sucb forcible abduction
is no sufficient reason why the party should not answer when
brought within the jurisdiction of the court which has the
right to try him for such an offence,.and presents no valid
bbjection .to his trial in such court. Among the authorities
which support the proposition are the following: Ew parte
Scptt, 9 B. & 0. 446 (1829); Lopez &bSatle's Case, 1 Deaisly
& Bell's Crown Cases, 525; State v. Smith, 1 Bailey,'So. Car.,
Law, 283 (1829); S. C. 19 Am. Dec. 679; State v. Brewster, 7
Ft. 118 (1835); -Dow's Case, 18 Penn. St. 37 (1851); State v.
Ross and .Afanm, 21 Iowa, 467 (1866); BAip Richmond v.
Urnited States, ([lte Richmond,) 9 Cranch, 102.
However this may be, the decision of that question. is Vs"
much within the province of the State court, as a question of
common law, or of the law of nations, of which that court is
bound to take notice, as it is of the coifrts of the United States.
And though we. might or might not differ with the Illinois
court on that subject, it is one in which we have .noright to
-review their decision.
- It must be remembered that this view of the subject does
not leave the prisoner or the government of Peru without
remedy for his unauthorized seizure within its territory. Even
this treaty with that country provides for the extradition of
persons charged with kidnapping, and on demand from Peru,
Julian, the party who is guilty of it, could be surrendered and
tried in its courts for this violation of its laws. The party himself would probably not. be without redress, for he could sue
Julian in an action of trespass and false imprisonment, and the
facts set out in the plea would without doubt sustain the action.
Whether he could recover a sum sufficient to justify the action
would probably depend upon moral aspects of the case, whici
we cannot here consider.

