OCTOBER TERM, '1886.
Sylrabus.

cut, and that the intestate, Maris Rhoads, was at the time of
his death a citizen of Pennsylvania, but there is nothing to
show the 'citizenship of the plaintiff, and the jurisdiction
depends on her citizenship, and not on that of her intestate.
A-mory v. Awry, 95 U. S. 186. It is true that the record
does show that letters of administration were granted to her
in Pennsylvania, but that does not make her a citizen of that
State. It may be that by the law of Pennsylvania the personal representative of a deceased citizen of Pennsylvania is,
in contemplation of law, resident within the State, and at
all times amenable to the jurisdiction of the proper courts of
that State, but that does not necessarily imply citizenship of
the State. lie must be there for the purposes of his administration, but that is all. And, besides, the jurisdiction must
appear positively. It is not enough that it may be inferred
argumentatively. B'rown v. -Yeene, 8 Pet. 112; Robertson v.
Cease, supra. If the plaintiff was actually a citizen of Pennsylvania when the suit *was begun, the record cannot be
amended here so as to show that fact, but the court below
may, in its discretion, allow it to be done when the case gets
back. Morgan v. Gay, 19 Wall. 81 ; Robertson v.Cease, su)r .
It is not necessary to consider any of the other assignments
of error.
Thejudgment of tMe Circuit Court is 'eversed and the cause
rema'ndedforfurtherproceedings.

EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA & GEORGIA RAILROAD v. GRAYSON.
APPPAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAM!.
Submitted November 8, 1886.-Decided November 29, 1886.

A, a citizen of Alabama, filed a bill in equity in a court of Alabama against
the Memphis and Charleston Railroad, a Corporation of Tennessee,

Alabama and Mississippi, and the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia

EAST TENNESSEE, &c., RAILROAD v. GRAYSQN. 241
Opinion of the Court,
Railroad, a Corporation of Tennessee and of Georgia. The bill alleged
that complainant was a stockholdpr in the Memphis qnd Charleston Company, that a lease of the road of that company had been made to the
other company for a term of years not yet expired, that the lease Jvag
not within the corporate power of either company, and that an arrangement had been made between the two companies, and was about to be
carried into effect, for the surrender and cancellation of the lease on the
payment by the lessor of a large sum of money to the lessee, which was
to be raised by the sale of a large amount of new stock at a very low
rate; and it prayed for an injunction to restrain tbe'lessee from operating the road, and the lessor from paying the sum of money or any sum
for the cancellation, and from issuing the new stock. On the petition of
the lessee the suit was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States
on the ground that the lessee was a citizen of Tennessee, and the complainant a citizen of Alabama, and that there was a controversy wholly
between citizens of different States, which could be fully determined
between them. The Circuit Court, on rpotion, remanded the cause. This
court, on appeal, affirms that judgment.

This was an appeal from the judgment of a Circuit Court,
remanding a cause which had been removed from a State
Court. This case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.3fr. Wiam M. Baxter for appellant.
Mr. Hewry E. Davis, 31r. F. P. iFard,and Mr. 1?.
W-alker for appellee.
M[. C=iF

JusTrC

WAi

.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order remanding a suit in equity
whicha had been removed from the chancery court oi. the
eastern division of the State of Alabama. The bill was filed
by John W. Grayson, a citizen of Alabama, and a stockholder
of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company, "in his own
behalf, and in behalf of all other stockholders

.

.

who

,may come in and contribute to the expenses," against the Mfemphis and Charleston Railroad Company, a corporation existing
under the laws of the States of Tennessee, Alabama, and Mis-'
sissippi, and the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company, a corporation existing under the laws of Ten,
nessee and Georgia. The bill was filed August 31, 1882, and
VOL. c=ix-16

O6TOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged that on the second of June, 1877, the Memphis and
Charleston Company executed what purported to be a lease of
its railroad and appurtenances to the East Tennessee, Virginia
and Georgia Company for a period of twenty years from
July 1, 1877; that this lease was modified in some particulars
December 2, 1879; that'neither the lease nor the modifcation
were within the corporate power or authority of either of the
parties thereto; 'that, notwithstanding this, the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Company had ,taken possession of
and was operating the leased railroad; that Grayson, the complainant, was not present, either in person or by proxy, at any
meeting of the stockholders Of the Memphis and Charleston
Company, if any there ever had been, when t4e lease, was authorized or approved; that he had never consented thereto,
and his rights as a stockholder "are in nowise affected by any
such action of a stockholders' meeting atwhich he was not
present, in which he did.'not participate, and in which his
stock was not represented - such action beingu ltr'av hes and
without legal authority;" that at a meeting of the stockholde's
of the Memphis and Charleston Company, on 'the 22d of August, 1882, a resolution was adopted authorizing the directors
to appoint a comnittee to meet the East Tennessee, Virginia
and Georgia Company and arrange for a cancellation of the
.lease, it being understood that the last named company would
surrender its rights as lessee on payment of $400,000; that the
resolution was adopted under the influence of. the belief that
upon the paylant of this amount the lease would be abrogated;
that at the same meeting a-further resolution was adopted authorizing the issue of five millions of dollars of additional stock,
to be sold at eight cents on the dollar to raise the amount to be
paid the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Company, in case
the proposed arrangement was carried out; that Grayson, the
complainant, voted against both these resolutions; that, on a
fair settlement of the accounts between the two companies for
the operations of the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia
Company during the time it had been in possession under the
lease, a large sum would be found due to the Memphis and
Charleston Company; and that the directors of the Memphis

EAST TENNESSEE, &c., RAILROAD v. GitYSON. 243
Opinion of the Court.

and Charleston Company will not, and Grayson, the complainant, cannot, bring a suit in the name of the company to have
the lease set aside.. The prayer of the bill is for a cancellation
of the jease, for an account, and'fbr an injunction to'restrain
the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Company from
operating the road, and the Memphis and Charleston Company
from paying $400,000 or any other sum for the cancellation of
the lease, and from issuing the new stock to raise the money
to make the payment.
On the 4th of September, 1882, the East Tennessee, Vir-.
ginia and Georgia Company filed a petition for the removal
of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States, on the
ground that the company is a citizen of Tennessee and Grayson a citizen of Alabama, and "there is a controversy which is
wholly between citizens of different States, and which can, be
fully determined between them, to wit, a controversy between
the said petitioner and the said John W. Grayson." The aircult Court, on motion, remanded the cause, and that order is
now here for review.
-,iVe are unable to distinguish this case from that of -Yew
Jersey CentraZ Piailroad v. Xi'M, 113 U. S. 249.
It is
brought by a stockholder of the Memphis and Charleston
Railroad Company, in behalf of himself and any other stockholders who will contribute to the expenses, to set aside a
lease made by that corporation. to the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company, in excess of its corporate powers, and to restrain the Memphis and Charleston
Compahy from carrying into effect a resolution of its stockholders authorizing a settlement with the East Tennessee,
Virginia and Georgia Company, by the payment of $400,000,
to secure a cancellation of the lease. The bill was filed by
one of the minority stockholders nine days after the resolu:tion
i favor of the settlement was passed, and one of its objects is
to defeat this action of the majority. Under these circm9tances it is clear that the Memphis and Charleston Company
is not a mere formal party, or a party in the same interest
with Grayson, but is rightly and necessarily a defendant.
The corporation, as a corporation, has determined, by a vote

24:4 ,

OCTOBER T.UP01' 18"86.,
Opinion of the Court.

of its stockholders, to pay $400,000, which it proposes to raise.
by a ruinous sale of stock, to get rid of a lease that, Grayson
insists is void and ought to be annulled without any payment
whatever, and the lessee brought to an account.
Neither is .there a sepaiate contr6versy in the case between the complainant and the East Tennessee, Virginia and
'Georgia Company. The principal purpose of the suit is to
set aside the lease for want of authority to make it. For
that purpose both the lessor and lessee are necessary parties.
'Grayson is not suing for the Memphis and Charleston Company, but for himself.. Itis true a decree in his favor may be'
for the advantage of the Memphis and Charleston Company,
but ne does not represent the company in its corporate. capacity, and has n authority to do so. As a stockholder he seeks
protection from the illegal acts of his own company as well
as the other.' According to the allegations of the bill, it may
fairly be inferred that a majority of the stockholders of the,
Memphis and Charleston Company have combined with the.
East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Company to sacrifice
,the rights of the minority, and this suit is in b~half of the
.minority to protect themselves against this unlawful and
fraudulent combination. iLeft to themselves; the two companies will settle on a basis that will be ruinous to the interests
of Grayson and those in like situation with himself. This he
seeks~to prevent.
In the argument it is suggested that this case differs from
v.3811 in the fact
that of the New Jersey Central Rail'oadv.
that in that case the two corporations joined in an answer
insisting 5n the validity of the lease, and in this nothing of
the kind has been done. But. here the allegations of the bill,
w+hich, for the purposes of the present inquiry, must be considered as confessed, are to the effect that the two companies
are acting in harmony upon the question of validity, and that,
unless restrained, the Memphis and Charleston Company will
make a settlement which will be greatly to the injury of its
minority stockholders, of whom this complainant is one.
This is certainly the equivaleft of the joint answer in the
other case.
T7ie order emanding tize case is aflknecl.

