OCTOBER TSRM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

'PHILADELPHIA FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 26,1886.-Decided November 15, 1886.

A Pennsylvania fire insurance corporation began doing business in New York
in 1872, and continued it afterwards till 1882, receiving from year to year
certificates of authority from the proper officer, under a statute of New
York passed in 1853. Chapter 694 of the laws of New York, of 1865 as
amended by c. 60 of the laws of 1875, provided that whenever the laws
of any other State should require from a New York fire insurance company a greater license fee than the laws of New York should then require
from the fire insurance companies of such other State, all such companies of such other State should pay in New York a license fee equal to
that imposed by such other State on New York companies. In 1873,Pennsylvania passed a law requiring from every insurance company of
another State, as a prerequisite to a certificate of authority, a yearly Sax
of 3 per cent. on the premiums received by it in Pennsylvania during the
preceding year. In 1882, the insurance officer of New York required
the Pennsylvania corporation to pay, as a license fee, a tax of 3 per cent.
on the premiums received by it in New York in 1881. In a suit against
such corporation, in a court of New York, to recover such tax, it was set
up as a defence, that the tax was unlawful, because the corporation was
a "person" within the "jurisdiction" of New York, and "the equal protection of the laws" had been denied to it, in violation of a clause in the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. On a
writ of error to review the judgment of the highest court of New York,
overruling such defence: Held, that such clause had no application, because, the defendant, being a foreign corporation, was not within the
jurisdiction of New York, until admitted by the State on a compliance
with the condition of admission imposed, namely, the payment of the
tax required as a license fee.
The business carried on by the corporation in New York was not a transaction of commerce.
The opinion of the highest court of New York, duly authenticated by the
proper officer, and transmitted to this court with the record, in compliance with the 8th Rule, was examined to aid in determining whether
that court decided such Federal question against the defendant.

This was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of New York. Under the provisions of § 1279 of the Code of
Civil Procedure of New York, the People of the State of New
York and the Fire Association of Philadelphia, a Pennsyl-

PHILA.

FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

lil"

Statement of Facts.

vania corporation, being parties to a question in difference
which might be the subject of an action, agreed upon a case
containing a statement of the facts on which the controversy
depended, and presented a written submission of it to the
Supreme Court of New York, so that the controversy became
an action. The material facts set fokth in the case were
these:
"The defendant, The Fire Asociation of Philadelphia, is a
corporation created and organized in the year 1820, by and
under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, for the transaction of the business of fire insurance, and having its principal place of business in the City of Philadelphia. In the
year 1872 it established an agency in the State of New York,
which it has ever since maintained. No question is here raised
but that it has uniformly complied with all the requirements
and conditions imposed by the laws of thiis State upon fire insurance companies from other States establishing and maintaining agencies in this State, except the payment of the 'tax now
in dispute, upon premiums received by it in 1881 upon risks
located wthin'the State of New York, and which is the subject of this controversy, and has received from year to year
certificates of authority from the Superintendent of the Insurance Department of this State, as provided to be issued under
the Act; c. 466 of the laws of 1853, and the subsequent Acts
amendatory thereof.
"The Act of the People of the State of New York, passed
May 11, 1865, three fifths being present, being c. *694 of the
laws of 1865, entitled An Act in relation to the deposits
required to be made, and the taxes, fines, fees, and other
charges payable by insurance companies of sister States,' as
amended by the Act of 1875, c. 60, provides as follows,
viz.: IWhenever the existing or future laws of any other
State of the United States shall require of insurance companies, incorporated by or organized under the laws of this
State, and having agencies in such other States, or of the
agents thereof, any deposit of securities in such State for the.
protection of policy-holders or otherwise,. or any payment
for taxes, fines, penalties, certificates of authority, license fees,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

or otherwise, gTeater than the amount required for such purposes from similar companies of other States by the then
existing laws of this State, then, and in every such case, all
companies of such States establishing, or having heretofore
established, an agency or agencies in the State, shall be and
are hereby required to make the same deposit for a like purpose in the Insurance Department of the State, and to pay the
Superintendent of said Department for taxes, fines, penaltiesi
certificates of authority, license fees, and otherwise, an amount
equal to the amount of such charges and payments imposed
by the laws of such State upon the companies of this State
and the agents thereof ; and the Superintendent of the Insurance iDepartment is hereby authorized to remit any of the fees
and charges which he is required to collect by existing laws,
except such as he is required to collect under and by virtue of
this Act, provided, however, that no discrimination shall be
made in favor of one company over any other from the same
State.'
"The State of Pennsylvania, by an Act passed April 4, 18,73,
and ever since in force, enacted as follows, viz.: ' Section 10.
No person shall act as agent or solicitor in this state of any
insurance company of another state, or foreign government,
in any manner whatever relating to risks, until the provisions
of this Act have been complied with on 'the part of the
company or association, and there has been granted to said
company or association, by the commissioner, a certificate of
authority, showing that the company or association is
authorized to transact business in this state; and it shall be
the duty of every such company or association, authorized
to transact business in this state, to make report to the
commissioner in the month of January of each year, under
oath of the president or secretary thereof, showing the entire
amount of premiums of every character and description
received by siid company or association in this state, during
the year or fraction of a year ending with the thirty-first
day of December preceding, whether said premiums were
received in money or in the form of notes, credits or any
other substitute for money, and pay into the state treasury a

PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION ,v.NEW YORK.

113

Statement of Facts.

tax of three per centum upon said premiums; and the commissioner shall not have power to grant a renewal of -the
certificate of said company or association until the tax aforesaid is paid into the state treasury.'
"In the year 1881 the defendant, through its authorized
agents in the State -of New York, received for insurance
against loss or injury by fire, upon property located within
the State of New York, premiums to the aggregate amount
of $196,170.22. The Superintendent of the Insurance Department of New York claimed that the defendant ought
to pay, as a tai; for the year 1881, $1848.45, with proper
interest, being the amount arrived at by deducting from
$5885.10, (which would be a tax of three per cent. on
$196,170.22,) the sum of $4036.65, which the defendant, as
a Pennsylvania corporation, had paid as a tax on premiums,
during 1881, under laws of New York in force in 1881,
other than the Act of 1865, as amended by the Act of 1875.
The case then states, that 'the controversy between the
parties is, as to whether the defendant is liable to pay any
tax to the Superintendent of the Insurance Department of
the State, upon the said prenilums received by it in the year
1881, and, if any, what amount;' that 'the defendant
claims that it is not liable to the plaintiffs for any amount,
insisting, first, that the said Act of 1865, as amended by
the Act of 1875, is unconstitutional and void, and not a
legithr .te 6xercise of legislative power,' and making further
claims as to the amount due from it if the Act in question
is valid; that 'the question submitted to the court for
decision upon the foregoing statement of facts is, whether
the defendant is liable to pay to the plaintiffs, or to tho
superintendent, the whole, or any, and, if ai y, what pari
6f the' $1848.45; and that judgment is to be entere|
According to its decision."
The agreed case having been heard by the Supreme Court
in general term, as required by law, it rendered a judgment
to the effect -that the defendant was not liable to pay any
part of such amount claimed by the superintendent. - Two
of the three judges holding the court concurred in that judgVOL. C

X---

OCTOBER "TERMN,

-1886,

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

nent. The third dissented. The opinions of the majority
and minority accompany the record. The majority held
that the statutes of New York in question were void because
in conflict with the Constitution of New York, and did not
discuss any question arising under the Constitution of the
United States. The dissenting judge differed with the majority as to the question adjudged by them, and further said:
-Nor can I agree with the claim that this statute is contrary
to the 'ourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States."
The plaintiffs having appealed to the Court of Appeals of
New York, that court reversed the judgment of the Supreme
Court, and rendered judgment for the plaintiffs for $1848.45,
with interest and costs, and remitted the record to the
Supreme Court, where a judgment to that effect was entered,
to review which the .defendant brought a writ of error.
The Court of Appeals, in its decision, 92 N. Y. -311, after
overruling the view taken by the majority of the judges of
the Supreme Court as to the validity of the statute under the
Constitution of New York, proceeded to consider its constitutionality under that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution which commands that no State
shall "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws." It held that that clause had no
application to the rights of the defendant, because, being
a foreign corporation, it was not within the jurisdiction of
New York, until it was admitted by the State, upon a compliance with the conditions of admission which the State
imposed and had the right to impose.
Xrf. Joseph T Choate, for plaintiff in error,-cited: Santa
Clat County v. Soutthern Paci.#C 1?ailroad,118 U. S. 394,
396; San .iateo County v. Southetmn Pacio .Railroad,13
Fed. Rep. 7122; County of Santa Clara v. Southern Paci
PRailroad, 18 Fed. Rep. 385, 397-404; .entucky Railroad
Tax Cases, 115 U. S.321; B arbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27;
Soon fling v. C'owley, 113 U. S. 703; Yick Mo v. HVopkins,
118 U. S.356; Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404;

PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

115

Opinion of the Court.

Expvarte Schollealerger,96 U. S. 369 ; Railroad Co. v. Koontz,
104 U. S. 5, 10-13; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Ex parte
Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 376; Boyd y. UAited States, 116 U. S.
616, 635; !ssouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31; Pearson v..
Portland,69 Maine, 278; Portlandv. Bangor, 65 Maine 120;
Northwestern Fertilizer Co. v. Hyde Park, 3 Bissell, 480;
Strauder v. Vest VFirginia, 100 U. S. 303, 311; Bureau Co.
v. Chicago, Burlington, & Quincy Railroad,44 Ill. 229 ;. Allhands v. People, 82 Ill. 234; Hughes v. Cairo,92 Ill. 339;
State Railroad Tax- Cases, 92 U. S. 575; 3lissouri Pacific
Railway v. Hurnes, 115 U. S. 512, 523; .exingtor v. -I&fQuillan, 9 Dana, 513; . C. 35 Am. Dec. 159; Doyle v. Continen,
tZl Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; Ins. Co. v. Aforse, 20 WaIL 445;
-Ducatv. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410.
.Jfy'. Denis O'Brien, Attorney General of N1few York, for
defendant in error, cited; Elmwood'v. -Iifcy,
92 U. S. 289;
Fairlield v. Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47; Post v. Super6visois 105 U. S. 667; Bnk of Augusta v. Egrle, 13 Pet. 519;
Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; L-verpool Ins. C. v. 3fassachusetts, 10 Wall. 566; Cooper .31'fg Co. v. Ferguson, 113
U. S. 727; NSathan v. LTouisiana, 8 How. 73; .forse v. ffome
Ins. Co., 30 Wis. 496; S. C. in error, 20 Wall. 445; Drake v.
-Doyle, 40 Wis. 175; Continental Co. v. Doyle, 40 Wis. 220;
Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; Runyan v. Coster,
14 Pet. 122; Covington Draw Bridge Co. v. Shepherd, 20
How. 233; Railroad Co. v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 5; -3c(ullough
v. Taryland,4 Wheat. 316, 430; State Tax on Foreign Held
Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Ex parte Kinney, 3 Hughes, 9; ffissouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31; Kentucky Railroad 1 x
Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 337.
M . JUsTicE BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant claims here the benefit of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and a question has occurred as to whether the
record preents that point for our review. There being no
pleadings, the obvious place to look for the claim world be the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

statement of facts. But all that is there said is, that
the defendant insists that the statute is "unconstitutional and
void and not a legitimate exercise of legislative power." The
question was considered, in both the Supreme Court and the
Court of Appeals, as to the validity of the statute, under the
Constitution of New York, as being a law made to depend for
its operation on the legislation of a foreign state, and thus an
illegitimate exercise of legislative power. This contention is
fairly within the words of the agreed statement, and, if it depended wholly on that statement to determine whether the
record raises a Federal question, some doubt might exist. But
in view of what was said in _furdock v. 2emnphis, 20 Wall.
590, 633, in Gross v. United States Jffortgage Co., 108 IU.S.
477, and in Adams County v. Burlington & .Jfissour? .Pailroad Co., 112 U. S. 123, we think that we are at liberty to
look into the opinion of the Court of Appeals, a copy of which,
duly authenticated by the proper officer, is transmitted to 'us
with the record, in compliance with ou&r 8th Rule, for the purpose of aiding in determining what was decided by that court.
From that opinion it appears that the court not only decided
against the defendant all the questions other than Federal
which were raised, including two under the Constitution of
New York, but also decided against it the Federal question
referred to. If the court had decided in its favor any one of
the other questions which went to the whole cause of action,
there would have been no necessity for considering the Federal
question. But as it was, the decisionof that question became
necessary to the disposition of the case, and was fully considered, not sna sp)onte, but as a point presented by the defendant.
The provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, which went
into effect in JTuly, 1868, is, that no State shall "deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
The first question which arises is, whether this corporation
was a person within the jurisdiction of the State of New
York, wi-h reference to the subject of controversy and within
the meaning of the Amendment.

.agreed

The defendant, on the assumption that if it was within the

jurisdiction of the State of New York, it was, though a foreign

PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

11.

Opinion of the Court.

corporation, "a person," and so entitled to the benefit of the
Amendment, contends that it, was within such jurisdiction.
The argument is, that-it established an agency within the
State in 1872, which it had ever since maintained; that it complied, from year to year, with all the requirements and conditions imposed by the laws of the State on foreign fire insurance companies doing business in the State; that it received
from year to year certificates of authority from the Superintendent of the Insurance Department, as provided by statute;
that, under those circumstances, it was legally within the State
and within its jurisdiction; that, being in the State, by permission of the State, continuously from 1872 to"1882, the State
imposed on it, while there, in 1882, an unequRl and unlawful
burden; and that the New York Act of 1865 did not come
into effect as to Pennsylvania corporations until the Pennsylvania Act of 1873 was passed, at Which time the defendant had
already been a year in the State.
But we are unable to take that view of the case. In Paul
v. fTbginia, 8 Wall. 168, at December Term, 1868, a statute
of Virginia required that every insurance company not incorporated by Virginia should, as a condition of carrying on business in Virginia, deposit securities with the State treasurer,
and afterwards obtain a license; and another statute made it a
penal offence for a person to act in Virginia as agent for an
insurance company not incorporated by Virginia, without such
license. A person having acted as such agent without a
license, and been convicted and fined under the statute, this
Court held that there had been no violation of that clause of
Article 4, § 2, of the Constitution of the United States
which provides that"' the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several.
States;" nor any violation of the clause in Article 1, § 8,
giving power to Congress "to regulate comnmerce with foreign nations and among the several States." The view announced was, that corporations are not citizens within the
clause first cited, on the ground that the privileges and immunities secured to the citizens of each State in the several States,
are those which are common to the citizens of the latter States,

OCTOBER TERM, IS86.
Opinion of the Court.

under their Constitutions and laws, by virtue of their being
citizens; and that, as a corporation created by a State is a
mere creation of local law, even the recognition of its existence
by other States, and the enforcement of its contracts made
therein, depend purely on the comity of those States - a
comity which is never extended where the existence of the corporation or the exercise of its powers is "prejudicial to their
interests or repugnant to their policy." And the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "Having no absolute right of
recognition in other States, but depending for such recognitipn
and the enforcement of its contracts upon their assent, it follows, as a matter of course, that such assent may be granted
upon such terms and conditions as those States may think
proper to impose. They may exclude the foreign1 corporation
entirely, they may restrict its business to particular localities,
or they may exact such security for the performance of its
contracts with their citizens as in their judgment will best promote the public interest. The whole matter rests in their discretion."' As to the power of Congress to regulate commerce
among the several States, the court said, that while the power
conferred included commerce carried on by corporations as well
as that carried on by individuals, "issuing a policy of insurance is not a transaction of commerce." This decision only
followed the principles laid dovn in the earlier cases of Bank
of .Augusta,v. 1a2le, 13 Pet. 519, 588, and Lafayette rns. C.
v. Frenoh, 18 How. 404.
The same rulings were followed in Ducat v. Chcago,. 10
Wall. 410, where it was said that the power of a State to discriminate between her own corporations aid those of other
States desirous of transacting business within her jurisdiction
being clearly established, it belonged to the State to determine
as to the nature or degree of discrimination, "subject only to
such limitations on her sovereignty as may be found in the
fundamental law of the Union."
Other cases to the same effect are -Liverpool In. Co. v.
3.fassahelsetts, 10 Wall. 566; -Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co.,
94: U. S. 535; and Cooper 3Ef,'g Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S.
727.

PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

119

Opinion of the Court.

As early as 1853, the State of New York, by a statute, c.
466, required of every fire insurance company incorporated by
any other State or any foreign government, as a prerequisite
to doing business in the State, that it should file an appointinent of an attorney on whom processwas to be served, 'and a
statement of its pecuniary condition, and procure from a designated public officer a certificate of authority stating" that the
company had complied with all the requisitions of the statdte;
and also required the renewal from year to year of the state-'
ment and evidence of investments; and provided that such'
public officer, on being satisfied that the capital of the coinpany and its securities and investments remained secure, should
furnish a renewal of the certificate of authority. A violation
of the provisions was made a penal offence. This act, with
immaterial amendments, is still in force.
This Pennsylvania corporation came into the State of New
York to do business by the consent of the State, under this
Act of 1853, with a license granted for a year, and has received
such license annually, to run for a year. It is within the State
for any given year under such license, and subject to the conditions prescribed by statute. The State, having the power to
exclude entirely, has the power to change the conditions of
admission at any thne, for the future, and to inpose as a condition the payment of a n'ew tax, or a further tax, as a license
fee. If it imposes such license, fee as a prerequisite for the
future, the foreign corporation, until it pays such license fee,
is not admitted within the State or within its jurisdiction. It is.
outside, at the threshold, seeking admission, with consent not
yet given. The Act of 1865 had been passed when the corporation first established an agency in the State. The amendment of 1875 changed the Act of 1865 only by giving to the
superintendent the power of remitting the fees and charges
required to be collected by then existing laws. Therefore, the
corporation was at all times, after 1872, subject, as a prerequisite to its power to do business in New York, to the same
license fee its own. State might .thereafter impose on New York
companies doing business in Pennsylvania. By going into the
State of New York in 1872, it assented to such prerequisite as

OCTOBER TERM, '1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

a condition of its admission within the jurisdiction of New
York. It could not be of right within such jurisdiction, until
it should receive the consent of the State to its entrance therein under the new provisions, and such consent could not be
given until the tax, as a license fee for the future, should be
paid.
It is n6t to be implied, from anything we have said, that the
power of a State to exclude a foreign corporation from doing
business within its limits is to be regarded as extending to an
interference with the transaction of. commerce between that
State and other States by a corporation created by one of such
other States.

,Judgment afl~med.
Mrn. JUSTIcE HAnIAN dissenting.

Under the decision just rendered, the State of New York is
permitted to subject a corporation of another State, within her
limits by her consent, to higher taxes in respect to its business
than is imosed there upon similar corporations of other States.
At the last term of this court, when counsel were about to
enter upon the argument of the case of Santa Clara,County
v. Southlern Pac;yc Railroad, 118 U. S. 394, 396- involving
the validity of a system devised by one of the States for the
taxation of railroad corporations of a certain class-the Chief
Justice observed: "The court does not wish to hear argument
on the question whether the provision in the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution, which forbids a State to
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the la*s, applies to these corporations. We are all of opinion that it does." This, it is true, was said in regard to corporations of the particular State whose legislation was assailed
as unconstitutional; but it is equally clear that a corporation
of one State, doing business in another State by her consent,
is to be deemed, at least in r'evect to that business, a "person"
within the jurisdiction of the latter State, in the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The denial of the equal protection of the laws may occur in

PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

121

.Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, T.

various ways. It will most often occur in the enforcement of
laws imposing taxes. An individual is denied the equal protection of the laws if his property is subjected by the State to
higher taxation than is imposed upon like property of other
individuals in the same community. So, a corporation is
denied that protection when its property is subjected by the
State, under whose laws it is organized, to more burdensome
taxation than is imposed upon other domestic corporations- of
the same class. So, also, a corporation of one State, doing
business, by its agents, in another State, by the latter's consent, is denied the equal protection of the laws if its business
there is subjected to higher taxation than is imposed upon the
business of like corporations from other States. These propositions seem to me to be indisputable. They are necessarily
involved in the concession that corporaticns, like individuals,
are entitled to the equal protection of the laws.
The plaintiff in error is a corp6ration of Pennsylvania. In
1872 it established and has ever since maintained an agency
in the State of New York. It had its agents there when the
taxes for 1881, here in question, were assessed.
. The laws of New York prescribe certain conditions precedent to the right of a fire insurance company from another
State to transact business there. It must possess a certain
amount of actual capital; appoint an attorney in the State,
service of process upon whom is to be "deemed a valid personal service upon the corporation" in any action "upon a
policy or liability issued or contracted while such corporation
transacted business" there; fie in the insurance department
a certified copy of its charter, together with a statement,
verified by the oath of its chief officer and secretary, showing
the name of the company, place where located, amount of its
capital and assets, the extent to which its real estate is encumbered, the par and market value of all shares of stock held by
it, the estimated value of its bonds, mortgages, and other
securities, the extent of its indebtedness, the amount of its
losses, adjusted and unpaid or incurred and in process of
adjustment, the losses disputed, and the claims existing against
it. It is also provided that no business shall be transacted in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the State by the agent of any company from another State,
while its capital is impaired to the extent of twenty per cent.
It further requires from such companies an annual statement,
showing in detail the items making up their capital, and the
deductions to be made therefrom. It was made the duty, first.
of the State comptroller, and subsequently of the superintendent of insurance-these requirements of the statute being
first complied .with -to issue to the company, thus seeking
admission into the State, a certificate showing its lawful right
to transact business within her limits. Laws of N. Y., 1853,
c. 466; Laws of 1862, c. 6, § 1, and c. 367, § 5; 1871, c. 888;
Laws of 1874, c. 331, § 1; Laws of 1875, c. 555, § 1.
That the plaintiff in error conformed to these statutory
provisions, and was admitted into New York for the transaction of business is shown by. the agreed case, from which
it appears that it "has uniformly complied with all the requirements and conditions imposed by the laws of this State
upon fire insurance companies from other States establishing
and maintaining agencies in this State, except the payment of
the tax now in dispute upon premiums received by it in 1881
upon risks located within the State of New York, and which
is the subject of this controversy, and has received from year
to year certificates of authorityfrom the superintendent of the
insurance department of tids State, as provided to be issued
'underthe act, c. 466 of the laws of 1853, and the subsequent
acts amendatory thereof."
In view of these admitted facts, how can it be said that this
Pennsylvania corporation was not, in respect- to its corporate
business, within the jurisdiction of New -York during the year
when the tax in dispute accrued? That a corporation of one
State, doing business in another State by the latter's consent,
evidenced by the official certificate given by her insurance
department in conformity with her laws, and liable, precisely
as domestic corporations are, to be brought into her courts,
through service of process upon its duly appointed attorney
or agent, in reference to any business transacted or liability
incurred by it there, is to be deemed within the jurisdiction of
that State, seems to me entirely clear. In EZxparte Scollen-

FHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

123

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

berger, 96 U. S. 369, 374, it was decided that a foreign insurance company, doing business in Pennsylvania, under the
authority of a statute of that Commonwealth requiring, as a
condition precedent to its being there, an agreement that judicial process served upon its agent should have the same effect
as if served upon the corporation, was, within the meaning of
the act of Congress of 1875, "found" in that State so as to
give jurisdiction to the courts of the United States sitting in
that State of suits brought there against such company,
accompanied by service of process upon its agent. The subject was again considered in &t. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350,
357, where it was said that there was no sound reason why,
in the case of an insurance company doing business in another
State, by an agent, under statutes such as those referred to, it
should not be deemed to be represented in the latter by such
agent, and held responsible for its obligations and liabilities
there incurred. See also Railroad Co. v. Hfalris, 12 Wall.
65; Roailway Co. v. 1Writton, 13 Wall. 270, 285.
it was said in argument that the plaintiff in error entered
New York with the knowledge, derived from the act of 1865,
that if Pennsylvania thereafter subjected New York insurance
companies to higher taxes than the latter State imposed upon
Pennsylvania corporations of the same class doing business in
New York, the taxes levied upon it would be correspondingly
increased; therefore, it is argued, the entrance of the plaintiff
in error into New York was subject to the reserved right of
that State thus to increase the taxes upon its business. The
same idea is embodied in the suggestion that New York made
it a prerequisite, from and after 1865, to the right of a fire
insurance corporation of another State to transact business in
New York, that it should pay such increased taxes, however
much they might be in excess of the taxes imposed there upon
corporations of the same class from the remaining States.
Now, it is submitted: 1. That no such obligation was imposed
by the statute upon the plaintiff in error as a prerequisite to
its right to enter New York and transact business there. The
agreed case shows not only that the insurance department of
New York has certified its right to do business in that State,

124-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

-

but that the certificate was made as provided in the Act of
1853 and the acts amendatory thereof. Besides, there is no
clause in the statute directing that department to withhold or
to revoke a certificate upon the failure or refusal of the company to pay these increased taxes. The regularity and validity
of that certificate was not questioned in argument, is not now
disputed, and there is not a word in the statute to the effect
that the Tayrment of these increased taxes is aprerequisiteto
the right of the company to remain i. the State and transact
business. Indeed, it is evident that the State purposely
-avoided establishing any such prerequisite to the right to enter
her limits. She only seeks, after admitting the plaintiff in
error and certifying its right to do business, to subject it to
the taxation in question. 2. The power of New York to
impose this increased tax surely cannot depend upon the fact
that she gave notice of what she would do in the contingency
expressed- in the Act of 1865. Such notice neither creates a
power to do that which the State could not otherwise constitutionally do, nor makes it the duty of the plaintiff in error
to submit to an illegal exaction. At last, the real question
presented is, whether Pennsylvania corporations can be subjected to higher taxes in New York, than are imposed there
upon corporations of the same class from other States.
It is said that a State may exclude altogether from its
borders a corporation of another State, or may admit it upon
such terms or conditions as she may elect to prescribe. It is
quite true that general language to that effect was employed
in Paul v. V'i'ginia, 8 Wall. 168, where the only question
necessary to be determined. was as to the validity of a statute
of Virginia, providing that before an insurance company, not
incorporated by that'State, should carry on business there, it
must obtain a license therefor, and deposit with the State
treasurer, as security for its engagements, bonds of a specified
character and amount. In the course of the opinion which
disposed of that question, it was said that a corporation of one
State, "having no absolute right of recognition in other States,
but depending for such recognition and the enforcement of its
contracts upon their assent, it follows, as a matter of course,

-PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

125

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

that such assent may be granted upon such, terms and conditions as those. Staes may thiik proper to impose. They may.
exclude the foreign corporati6n entirely; they may restrict its
business to particular localities, or they may exact such security for the performance of its contracts with their citizens as
in their judgment will best promote the public interests. The
whole matter rests in their discretion." But, I submit that it
is the settled doctrine of this court, that the tekims and conditions so prescribed must not .be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, or inconsistent with any right granted
or secured by that instrainent. In -Dtcatv. Clticago,10 Wall.
410, 415, it was said by Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the
court, that, in respect to the nature or degree of discrimnination
which a State may make between her own corporations and
those of other States, "it belongs to the State to determine,
subject only to such limitations on her sovereignty as may be
found in the fundamental law of the Union." It was so decided in Iisurance Co. v. 3forse, 20 Wall. 445, 455, 456, where
the question was as to the validity of a statute of Wisconsin
relating to the admission into that State of fire insurance companies incorporated by other States. Besides the condition
that they should designate some attorney in Wisconsin upon
whom process against the company could be served, it imposed
the fAurther one that it should file in the proper office an agreement stipulating that it would not remove to the courts of the
United States any suit brought against it in the local courts.
An insurance company of New York established an agency in
Wisconsin, and complied in all respects with these conditions;
it filed the required agreement. In support of the validity of
those conditions, the State relied upon the very language
above quoted from Paul v. Vigin ia. But the court was
careful to say that that language must be understood with
reference to the facts in the case and to the question to be
decided, which was stated to be shply "whther the State
night require a foreign insurance company to take a license
for the transaction of its business, giving security for the payment of its debts." Care was taken to further announce, that
the general language employed in Paulv. Virginiawas not in-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

tended to impair the language in 1a Fayette Ins. 0o.v. F'ench,
18 How. 404, 407, where the court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Curtis, said : "A corporation created by Indiana can transact
business in Ohio only with the consent, express or implied, of
the latter State. This consent may be accompanied by such
conditions as Ohio may think fit to impose, and these conditions must be deemed valid and effectual by other States and
by this court; provided, they are not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States, or inconsistent with
those rules of public law which secure the jurisdiction and authority of each State from encroachment of all others, or that
principle of natural justice which forbids condemnation wichout opportunity for defence." Upon these grounds it was
held, in ne ,anee Co. v. .3forse, that the Wisconsin statute,
so far as it required insurance companies of other States to
stipulate that they would not exercise the right to. have suits
against them removed to the national courts, was void, equally
because it created an obstruction to the exercise of a privilege
granted by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and tended to oust the courts of the Union of a jurisdiction
conferred upon them. Much that was said in that case is
pertinent to the present one. After observing that the courts
would not enforce an agreement between a citizen of New
York and a citizen of Wisconsin, that the former would, in no
event, resort to the Federal courts sitting in Wisconsin for the
protection of his rights of property, or an agreement between
the same parties, upon whatever consideration, that the citizen
of New York would in no case, when called into the courts,
either of Wisconsin or of the Federal courts sitting in that
State, demand a jury to determin6 his rights of property, but
would submit such rights to arbitration or to the decision of a
single judge, the court said: "We see no difference in principle between the cases supposed and the case before us. Every
citizen is entitled to resort to all the courts of the country, and
to invoke the protection which all the laws or all those courts
may afford." The court further said that, the right of the insurance company to remove the suit was "denied to it by the
State court on the ground that it had made the agreement re-

PHILA. FIRE ASSOCIATION v. NEW YORK.

127

. Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

ferred to, and that the statute of the State authorized and
required the making of the agreement. We are not able to
distinguish this agreement and this requisition, on principle,
from a similar one made in the case of an individual citizen of
New York. A corporation has the same right to the protection of the laws as a natural citizen, and the same right to appeal to all the courts of the country. The rights of an individual are not superior, in this respect, to that of a corporation..
The State of Wisconsin can regulate its own corporations and
the affairs of its own citizens, in subordination, however, to
the Constitution of the United States. The requirement of an
agreement like this from their own corporations would be
brutum fulbn , because they possess no such right under the
Constitution of the United States. A foreigo citizen; whether
natural or corporate, in this respect possesses a right not pertaining to one of her own citizens. There must necessarily be
a difference between the status of the two in this respect."
The only difference between Insuranee Co. v. XJorse and the
present case is, that in the former the New York corporation
expressly agreed, in writing, that it would not exercise its constitutional privilege of removing suits against it into the courts
of the Union while the Pennsylvania corporation received an
.official certificate of its right to transact business in New York
with notice derived from the act of 1865, that that State would
after 1873 -the date of the Pennsylvania statute- claim from
it higher taxes than she imposed upon like corporations from
the remaining States doing business in her limits by her consent. If the plaintiff in error, by merely maintaining its agencies in New York, is to be held to have impliedly agreed -to
submit to steh increased taxation, is that anything more than
an implied agreement that it would not assert a right secured
to it by the Constitution of the United States ? Can it be that
a corporation is estopped to claim the benefit of the constitutional provision securing to it the equal protection of the laws
simply because it voluntarily entered and remained in a State
which has enacted a statute denying such protection to it and
to like corporations from the same State? Is the right to that
protection any less valuable or fundamental than the right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissentqg Opinion: Harlan, J.

remove a suit into the courts of the Union for trial? Will it
be held that an express agreement by a corporation not to exercise the latter right is void and not enforceable, but that a
local statute denying the equal protection of the laws to a corporation will be upheld, simply because that corporation cc me
within the jurisdiction of the State which assumed to make
such denial, and received from-her officers, acting in conformity with her laws, a certificate of its right to transact business
there? Will effcct be given in one case to what (erroneously,
I think) is called an implied agreement to surrender a constitutional right, while an express agreement in the other to surrender a constitutional right is held to be invalid?
Even if it were conceded that a State, which provides for
the organization, under her own laws, of corporations for the
transaction of every kind of business, could arbitrarily exclude
from her limits similar corporations from the remaining States,
and declare all contracts made within her jurisdiction with
corporations from other States, to be void-concessions to be
made only fcr the purposes of this case -it would not follow
that she could subject corporations of other States, doing business within her limits under a license from the proper department, to higher taxes than she imposes upon other corporations
of the same class from the remaining States. . The plaintiff in
error having been in 1881 lawfully within New York, by its
agents, cannot be denied there the equal protection of the laws
because the State which created it may have adopted a system
of taxation different from that devised by New-York. The
case, in its legal aspects, is precisely the same as if Pennsylvania had never passed the statute of 1873, but New York had,
in that year, imposed upon fire insurance companies from
Pennsylvania higher taxes than she imposed upon similar
corporations from other States.
It would seem to be the result of the decision in this case,
that New York may prescribe such varying rates of taxation
upon insurance corporations of the remaining thirty-seven
States, within her jurisdiction, as she chooses - the rate for
corporations from each State differing from the rate established for corporations of the same class from all other States,

