. HUSE t. GLOVER.
Counsel for Appellees.

HUSE v. GLOVER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OJ' ILLINOIS.
Argued December 10, 1886.-Decided December 20, 1886.

The provision in the ordinance of 1787 that the navigable waters leading
into the Mississippi and the St. Lawrence shall be common highways,
forever free, vithout .tax, impost, or duty therefor, refers to rivers in
their natural state, and does not prevent the State of Illinois from
improving the navigation of such waters within its limits, or from
charging and collecting reasonable tolls from vessels using the artificial
improvements as a compensation for the use of those facilities.
Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, restated and affirmed, and applied to
this case.
A river does not change its legal character as a highway if crossings by
bridges or ferries are allowed under reasonable conditions, or if dams
are erected under like conditions.
Cardwell v. Ainerican Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205, and Hamilton v. V'icksburg,
&c., Railroad,ante, 280, affirmed.
If, in the opinion of a State, its commerce will be more benefited by improving a navigable stream within its borders, than by leaving the same in
its natural state, it may authorize the improvements, although increased
inconvenience and expense may thereby attend the business of iudivid.
uals.
A "duty of tonnage," within the meaning of the Constitution, is a charge
upon a vessel, according to its tonnage, as an instrument of commerce,
for entering or leaving a port, or navigating the public waters of the
country.

This was a bill in equity to prevent certain officers of the
State of Illinois from exacting tolls upon the vessels of the
complainants passing through the improved waters of the Illinois River. Respondents demurred, and the bill was dismissed
on the demrrer. Complainants appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
XTr. G. S. Eldredge for appellants.
31r. George Hunt, Attorney General of the State of Illinois, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Mu.

JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes from the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois. It was heard there and decided on demurr.er to the bill of complaint.

The substance of the bill is

this: That by various- acts of her legislature, commencing
with one passed in February, 1867, the State of Illinois
adopted measures for improving the navigation of Illinois
River, including the construction of a lock and dam at Henry,
and at Copperas Creek on the river. She created a board of
canal commissioners, and invested it with authority to superintend the construction of the locks and dams, to control and
manage them after their construction, and to prescribe reasonable rates of toll for the passage of vessels through the locks.
By a clause in one of the acts it was provided that all tolls
received for the use of the locks, not necessary to keep the
same in repair, and to pay the expenses of their collection,
should be "paid quarterly into the State treasury as' part of
the general revenue of the State." Laws of Illinois of 1872,
213, 214.
The works were constructed at an expense of several hundred thousand dollars, which was principally borne by the
State. It is represented that a small portion was contributed
by the United States. Those at Hlenry were completed in
1872; those at Copperas Creek in 1877; and the commissioners prescribed rates of toll for the passage of vessels
through the locks, the rates being fixed per ton, according to
the tonnage measurement of the vessels and the amount of
freight carried.
The c6raplainants, citizens of Ilinois, composing the firm of
Huse, Loomis & Co., are engaged, and have been, since their
orgaqnization in 1864, in cutting ice at Peru and at other points
on the Illinois River, and in transporting it on that river, and
thence by the Mississippi and other navigable streams to St.
Louis, Memphis, and other Southern markets; and in connection therewith are carrying on a general transportation business, using constantly from three to six steamboats, and from
thirty to sixty barges, varying from 125 to 1000 tons, all

HUSE v. GLOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

licensed and registered under the act of Congress. They
allege in the bill, that prior to the construction of the dam
across the Illinois River at Henry, they were able to navigate
the river without interruption, except such as was incident to
its ordinary use in its natural state; that the dams at that
place and at Copperas Creek are impediments to the free navigation of the river; that while an additional depth of water
is created above them, no practical advantage ensues to the
complainants, for they encounter below the dams the same
stage of water they would have without them ; that the dams
are so constructed as to wholly impede, except at extreme
high water, the navigation of the river by steamboats and
other vessels which were previously accustomed to navigate it,
unless they pass through the locks; that from the construction of the lock and dam at Henry in 1872 to the spring of
1878, they have paid as duties or charges upon the tonnage
measurement of their steamboats and other vessels about three
thousand dollars, and for tolls imposed upon the cargoes of
ice transported by them about five thousand dollars; that
upon subsequent shipments similar charges have been exacted,
as also for the passage of their boats and barges through the
lock at Copperas Creek. And they allege that they are advised and believe that the imposition of the tolls and tonnage
duties mentioned is in violation: first, of the provision of
article four of the ordinance for the government of the territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio River, passed
July 13, 1787, which provides, that "the navigable waters.
leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carry-.
ing places between the same, shall be common highways, and
forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said territory
as to the citizens of the United States, and those of any other
States that may be admitted into the confederacy, without
any tax, impost, or duty therefor; " and, second, of the article
of the Constitution of the United States which prohibits the
imposing of a tonnage duty by any State without the consent.
of Congress. Art. 1, ยง 10. They, therefore, pray that the
defendants, who are canal commissioners, and all persons&
acting under them, may be restrained from exacting any tonVOL. Cxix-35

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

OPinion of the Court.

nage duties or other charges for the. passage of their steamboats or barges, and other vessels used by them in navigating
the Illinois River, or from interfering in any manner with the
free and uninterrupted navigation of the river by them in the
usual course of their business.
The questions thus urged upon the consideration of the
court below are pressed here; but they are'neither new nor
difficult of solution. The opinion of that court presents in a
clear and satisfactory manner the full answer to them, and
nothing can be added to the force of its reasoning. In affirming its conclusions, we can do little more than repeat its argument. 1use v. Glover, 11 Bissell; 550.
The fourth section of the ordinance for the government of
the northwestern territory was the subject of consideration in
Eseanaba Co. v. Cicago, 107 U. S. 678. We there said that
the ordinance was passed before the Constitution took effect;
that although it appears by various acts of Congress to have
been afterwards treated as in force in the territory, except as
modified by them, and the act enabling the people of Illinois
Territory to form a Constitution and State government, and
the resolution of Congress admitting the State into the Union,
referred to the principles of the ordinance, according to which
the Constitution was to be formed, its provisions could not
control the powers and authority of the State after her
admission; that whatever the limitation of her powers as a
government whilst in a territorial condition, whether from
the ordinance of 1787 or the legislation of Congress, it ceased
to have any operative force, except as voluntarily adopted by
her after she became a State of the Union; that on her admission she at once became entitled to and possessed of all the
rights .of dominion and sovereignty which belonged to the
original States; that the language of the resolution admitting
her was, that she is "admitted into the Union on an equal
footing with the original States in all respects whatever;"
-and that she could, therefore, afterwards exercise the same
powers over rivers within her limits as Delaware exercised
over Blackbird Creek, and Pennsylvania over Schuylkill River.
Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; Pei'nzi v. _Aew Orlean, 3
How. 589; Strader v. 'akam, 10 How. 82.

HUSE v. GLOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

We also held, in that case, that, independently of these
considerations, the terms of the ordinance were not violated
because the navigable streams were subject to such crossings
as the public necessities and convenience might require. The
rivers did not change their character as cormnon highways, if
the crossings were allowed under reasonable conditions, and so
as not unnecessarily to obstruct them. The erection of bridges
-ith dams, and the establishment of ferries for the transit of
persons and property, are consistent with the free navigation
of the rivers; and in suppot t of this doctrine we referred to
the case of Palnerv. C(uyahoga County, 3 McLean, 220, 227,
where Mr. Justice McLean, spealdng of the provision of the
ordinance, said: "This provision does not prevent a state from
improving the navigableness of these waters by removing
obstructions, or by dams and locks so increasing the depth of
the water as to extend the line of navigation. Nor does the
ordinance prohibit the construction of any work on the river
which the state may consider important to commercial intercourse. A dam may be thrown over the river, provided a lock
is so constructed as to permit boats to pass with little or no
delay, and without charge. A temporary delay, such as passing a lock, could not be considered as an obstruction prohibited
by the ordinance."
Since the decision in the Escanaba case, we have had our
attention repeatedly called to the terms of this clause in the
ordinance of 1787. A similar clause as to their navigable
rivers is found in the acts providing for the admission of
California, Wisconsin, and Louisiana. The clause in the act
providing for the admission of California was considered in
GUaidwell v. American Bridge Company, 113 U. S. 205. We
there held that it did not impair the power which the State
could have exercised over its rivers had the clause not existed;
and that its object was to preserve the rivers as highways
equally open to all persons without preference to any, and
unobstructed by duties or tolls, and thus prevent the use of
the navigable streams by private parties to the exclusion of
the public, and the exaction of toll for their navigation. The
same doctrine we have reiterated at the present term of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

court in construing a similar clause in the act for the admission
of Louisiana. Hamilton v. 'ickburg, 2hlreveort & Paciflo
Railroad, atre, 280.

As thus construed the clause would pre-

vent any exclusive use of the navigable waters of the State a possible farming out of the privilege of navigating them to
particular individuals, classes, or corporations, or by vessels of
a particular character. That the apprehension of such a
monopoly was not unfounded, is evident from the history of
legislation since. The State of New York at one time endeavored to confer upon Livingston and Fulton the exclusive right
to navigate the waters within its jurisdiction by vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam.
The exaction of tolls for passage through the locks is as
compensation for the use of artificial facilities constructed, not
as an impost upon the navigation of the stream. The provision of the clause that the navigable streams should be highways without any tax, impost, or duty, has ,reference to their
navigation in their natural state. It did not contemplate that
such navigation might not be improved by artificial means, by
the removal of obstructions, or by the making of dams for
deepening the waters, or by turning into the rivers waters
from other streams to increase their depth. For outlays
caused by such works the State may exact reasonable tolls.
They are like charges for the use of wharves and docks constructed to facilitate the landing of persons and freight, and
the taking them on board, or for the repair of vessels.
The State is interested in the domestic as well as in the
inter-state and foreign commerce conducted on the Illinois
:River, and to increase its facilities, and thus augment its
growth, it has full power. It is only when, in the judgment
of Congress, its action is deemed to encroach upon the navigation of the river as a means of inter-state and foreign commerce, that that body may interfere and control or supersede
it. If, in the opinion of the State, greater benefit would result to her commerce by thd improvements made, than by
leaving the river in its natural state- and on that point the
may authorize
State must necessarily determine for itself -it
them, although increased inconvenience and expe-ase may

HUSE v. GLOVER.
Opinion of the Court.

thereby result to the business of individuals. The private
inconvenience must yield to the public good. The opening of
a new highway, or the improvement of an old one, the building of a railroad, and many other works, in which the public
is interested, may materially diminish business in certain quarters and increase it in others; yet, for the loss resulting, the
sufferers have no legal ground of complaint. How the highways of a State, whether on land or by water, shall be best
improved for the public good is a matter for State determination, subject always to the right of Congress to interpose in
the cases mentioned. Spooner v. ._eConnell,1 McLean, 337;
Kellogg v. Union Co., 12 Conn. 7; Thames Bank v. Jlobell, 18
Conn. 500; S. C. 46 Am. Dec. 332; eldeynolc7s v. &nallhouse,
8 Bush, 447.
By.the terms tax, impost, and duty, mentioned in the ordinance, is meant a charge for the use of the government, not
compensation for improvements. The fact that if any surplus
remains from the tolls, over what is used to keep the locks in
repair, and for their collection, it is to be paid into the State
*treasury as a part of the revenue of the State, does not
change the character of the toll-or impost. In prescribing
the rates it would be impossible to state in advance what the
tolls would amount to in the aggregate. That would depend
upon the extent 'of business done, that is, the number of vessels and amount of freight which may pass through the locks.
Some disposition of the surplus is necessary until its use shall
be required, and it may as well be placed in the State treasury, and probably better, than anywhere else.
Nor is there anything in the objection that the rates of toll
are prescribed by the commissioners according to the tonnage
of the vessels, and the amount of freight carried by them
through the locks. This is simply a mode of fixing the rate
according to the size of the vessel and the amQunt of property
it carries, and in no sense is a duty of tonnage within the prohibition of the Constitution. A duty of tonnage within the
meaning of the Constitution is a charge upon a vessel, according to its tonnage, as'an instruinent of commerce, for. enter,
ing or leaving a port, or navigating the public waters of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

country; and the prohibition was designed to prevent the
States from imposing hindrances of this kind to commerce
carried on by vessels.
In Packet Company v. Keolak, 95, U. S. 80, 84, that city
was authorized by its charter to make wharves on the banks
of the navigable river upon which it is situated, and to collect
and regulate wharfage, the rates being proportioned to the
tonnage of the vessel; and the court held that the charge was
not subject to the objection that it was a duty of tonnage
within the prohibition of the Constitution. It said: "A
charge for services rendered, or for convniences provided, is
in no sense a tax or a. duty. It is not a hindrance or impediment to free navigation. The prohibition to the State against
the imposition of a duty of tonnage was designed to guard
against local hindrances to trade and carriage by vessels, not
to relieve them from liability to claims for assistance rendered
-and facilities furnished for trade and commerce. It is a tax
or a duty that is prohibited: something imposed by virtue of
sovereignty, not claimed in right of proprietorship. Wharfage is of the latter character. Providing a wharf to which,
vessels may make fast, or at which they may conveniently
load or unload, is rendering them a service." And in Transpotation Co. v. Pa.kersburgh, 107 U. S. 691, 696, 698, speaking of a charge of wharfage according to the tonnage of a
vessel, and a duty of tonnage prohibited by the Constitution,
the court said: "They are not the same thing; a duty of tonnage is a charge for the privilege of entering, or trading or
lying in, a port or harbor; wharfage. is a charge for the use of
a wharf." And again, "The fact that the rates (of wharfage)
charged are graduated by the size or tonnage of the vegsel is
of no consequence in this connection. This does not make it
a duty of tonnage in the sense of the Constitution and the
acts of Congress." Cannon, v. -Yew Orleans, 20 Wall. 577;
Packet Compnany v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. We do not
see any objections that would justify a disturbance of the
decree below, which is accordingly
Aflrmned.

