CALIFORNIA FAVING CO. v. SCHALICKE.
Opinion of the Court.

ground that, as the bond was given with the statute existing,
the statute formed part of the bond, and the surety virtually
consented that judgment might go against him on the bond,
undqr § 21, if the plaintiff should be entitled t6. judgment
against.Johnson, citing TfWitehurst v. Coleat, 53 Ill. 241, and
Rennie&v. T]he Pe(Tl-e, 70 Ill. 100. This was a correct ruling.
Beall v. i ew fexico, 16 Wall. 535 ; _Moore v. Huntingto, 17
Wall. 417, 422.
As to the objection made by Carter, that he was denied a
hearing, the Supreme Court of Illinois overruled it on .the
ground that, on the giving of the release bond, the tug was
discharged from the lien unless ordered again into custody,
and the subsequent judgment could only b a ainst Johnson
and Christy, Inpersonam. This was a sound view.
Judgment aribmed.
CALIFORNIA PAVING CO. v. SCHALICKE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted December 6, 186.-Decided December 20,18S6.

Reissued letters-patent No. 4364, granted to John J. Schillinger, May' 2d,
1871, for an improvement in concrete pavements, on the surrender of
original letters-patent No. l05,559, gianted to him July 19th, 1870, are
not, in view of the disclaimer filed by the patentee, March 1st, 1875,
infringed by the' defendant's pavement in this case.

Bill in equity to restrain infringements of letters-patent
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
_Ir. X. A. W~eatom for appellant.

31r. Mfanuel Eyre for appellee.
Mr. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court..

This is a sit in equity, brought by the California Artificial
Stone Paving Company, a California corporation, against F.
W. Schalicke, to recover for the infringement of reissued letVOL. cxix-26

OCTOBER TERA,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ters-patent No. 4364, granted to John J. Schillinger, May 2d,
1871, for an improvement in concrete pavements, on the surrender-of original letters-patent No. 105,559, granted to him
July 19th, 1870. The specification and drawings of the reissued patent are as follows:
"Figure 1 represents a plan of my pavement. Figure 2,is
a. vertical section of the same. Similar letters indicate corre-sponding parts.
Fig. 1.

.Fig. 2.

"This invention relates to a concrete pavement, which is laid
in sections, so that each section can be taken up and relaid
without disturbing the adjoining sections. With the joints
of this sectional concrete pavement are combined strips of tarpaper, or equivalent material, arranged between the several
blocks or sections in such a manner as to produce a suitable
tight joint and yet allow the blocks to be raised separately
without affecting the blocks adjacent thereto.
"In carrying out my invention, I form the concrete by mixing cement with sand and gravel, or other suitable material, to

CALIFORNIA JAVING CO. v. SCHALICKE.

40a

Opinion of the Court.

form a plastic compound, using about the following proportions: One part, by measure, -o± cement one part, by measure,
of sand, and from three to sia parts, by measure, of gravel,
with sufficient water to render the mixture plastic; but I- do
not copline myself to any definite proportions or materials for
making the concrete composition. While the mass is plastic,
I lay or spread the same on the foundation or bed of the pavement, either in molds or between movable joists of the proper
thickness, so as to form the edges of the concrete blocks, a, a,one block being formed after the other. When the first block
has set I remove the joists or partitions between it and the
block next to be formed, and then I form the second block,
and so on, each succeeding block being formed after the adjacent blocks have set, [and, since the concrete in setting shrinks,
the second block, when set, does not adhere to the first,.and so
on,] and, when the pavement is completed, each block can be
taken up independent of the adjoining blocks. Between the,
joints of the adjacent blocks are placed strips, b, of tar-paper,
or other suitable material, in the following manner: After'
completing one block, a, I place the tar-paper, b, along the
edge where the next block is to be formed, and I put the plas-J
tic composition for such next block up against the tar-paper
joint, and proceed with the formation of the new block until
it is completed. In this manner I proceed until the pavement
is completed, interposing tar-paper between the several joints,
as described. The paper constitutes a tight water-proof joint,
but it allows the several blocks to heave separately, from -the
effects .of frost, or to be raised or removed separately, whenever occasion may arise, without injury to the adjacent blocks.
The paper, when placed against the block first formed, does
not adhere thereto, and, therefore, the joints are always free
between tle several blocks, although the paper may adhere to
the edges of the block or blocks formed, after the same has
been set up in, its place between the joints. [In such cases,
however, where cheapnes is an object, the tar-paper may be
omitted, and the blocks formed without interposing* anything
between their joints, as previously described. In this latter
case, the joints soon fill up with sand or dust, and, the pave-

4 10

OCTOBER TERM,- 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

meht is rendered sufficiently tight for many purposes, while
the blocks axe detached from each other, and can be taken up
and"'What
relaid, each independent of the adjoining b]ocks.]
I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters-patent,
is-

"1. A concrete pavement laid in detached blocks or sections,
substantially in the manner shown and described.
"2. The arrangement of tar-paper, or its equivalent, between
adjoining blocks of concrete, substantially as, and for the purpose, set forth."
On the 1st of March, 1875, Schillinger filed in the Patent
Office a disclaimer, in which he disclaimed the matter above
enclosed in brackets, and stated, also, that he disclaimed "the
forming of blocks from plastic material without interposing
anything between their joints while .in the process of formation."
The only'defence set up in the answer is non-infringement.
Aftei a hearing, on proofs, the Circuit Court dismissed the
bill-, on the ground that the defendant's pavement did not
infringe either one of the two claims of the patent.
This patent has been construed by several Circuit Courts
since the disclaimer was fied. In Schillinger v. Gunt4er, 14
latchford, 152, in the Southern District of New York, in February, 1877, the ctefendant's pavement had a bottom layer of
coarse cement, on 'which was laid a course of fine cement,
divided into blocks by a trowel run through that course while
plastic. It possessed the advantage of Schillinger's invention,
because any blocks in the upper course could be taken up
without injury to the adjoining.blocks. Concrete pavement
having been before laid in sections, without being divided into
blocks, the invention of Schillinger was held to consist in
dividing the pavement into blocks, so that one block could be
removed and repaired without injury to the rest of the pavement, the division being effected by either a permanent or a
temporary interposition of something between the blocks. It
was held that the effect of the disclaimer was to leave the
patent to be one for a pavement wherein the blocks are formed
by interposing some separating material between the joints;

CALIFORNIA PAVING CO. v. SCIIALICKE.

406

Opinion of the 'Court.

that to limit the patent to the permanent interposition of a
material equivalent to tar-paiper, would limit the actual invention ; that using the trowel accomplshed the substantial results
of the invention in substantially the same way devised by
Schillinger; that the only difference in result was that the
defendant's method left an open joint; that having a tight.
joint was not a material part of Schillinge.r's invention; and
that the mode of operation involved in using the trowel was
within the first claim of- the reissue as it stood after thedisclaimer.
In the same suit, 17 Blatchford, 66, in August, 1879, it was
held, that the disclaimer took out of the first claim of the
reissue only so much thereof as claimed a concrete pavement
made of the plastic material'laid in detached blocks, without
interposing anything between the joints in the process of
formation, leaving the claim to be one for such a pavement
laid -in,detached blocks, when free joints are made between
the blocks, by interposing tar-paper or its equivalent.
In - OaZ fonia Ariftial Stone Paving C(o. v. .rolitor,- 7
Sawyer, 190, in the District of California, in May, 1881, the
defendant's pavement was made by cutting a lower course into
sections with a trowel, to a greater or less depth, according to
the character of the material, making a joint, and doig the
same with an upper course, the upper joint being directly over
the lower joint. Into the open joint, in each case, was loosely
put some of the partially set material from the top of the laid
course, answering the purpose of tar-paper. A blunt and
rounded joint-marker, which was said to be -J- or - of an inch
in depth, was then run over the line of tho joints, marking off
the block. The pavement was weaker along the line of the
joint than in any other place. This was held to be an
infringement.
In COaforni ArtiXcial Stone Paving Co. v. Freeborn, 8
Sawyer, 443, in the District of California, in January, 1883, it
was held, that, where nothing was interposed in the joint between a newly laid block and one laid before, but, after the
material in the newly laid block had partially set, a blunt and
rounded joint-marker, fl of an inch in depth, was run along

OCTOBER TERM, 1886. Opinion of the Court.

the line between the newly 1id block and the one laid before,,
there was no infringement.
In ehkilli'gerv. Greenway Bewfng Co., 21 Blatcifoid, 383,
in' the Northern District of New Yorkin July, 1883, it was
held, that the 2d claim of the reissue was infringed by a concrete pavement which had an open cut made by a trowel entirely through two courses of material, the line of cut in the
upper course bein. directly over the line of cut in the lower
course; and that the interposition of the trowel, though temporary, was an equivalent for the tar-paper, even though.the
joint was left open after the trowel wasremoved, and was not
made tight.
In luhl v. _lfueller, 21 Fed. Rep. 510, in the Southern District of Ohio, in June, 1884, it was held, that the use of any
marker wasan infringement which made a cut or depression
having the effect to cause the pavement to break by upheaval,
or oracking, from any cause, along the line of the cut or depression; and that, as the blocks from the pavements laid bythe defendant showed clear, distinct, and complete lines of
division, there was infringement, whether those lines were
produced by a trowel or by a marker.
The evidence in the present case shows that the defendant,
during the, process of making his pavement, marked off its
surface into squares. But the question is whether he, to any
extent, divided it into blocks, so that the line-of cracking was
controlled, and induced to follow the joints of the divisions,
rather than the body of the block, and so that a block could
be taken out, and a new one put in its place, without disturbing or injuring an adjoining block. The specification makes it
essential that the pavement shall be so laid in sections "that
each section can be taken up and relaid without disturbing the
adjoining sections." Again, it says, that the joint between
the blocks "allows the several blocks to heave separately, from
the effects of frost, or to be raised or removed separately,
whenever occasion may arise, without injury to the adjacent
blocks.'" This is essential; and, in all the cases where infringement has been held to have been established, there have been
blocks substantially separate, made so by the permanent or

