DONNELLY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of -Facts.

DONNELLY

O. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA.hXS.
Submitted November 19, 136. -Decided

December 13, 18S6.

A creditor who receives from his debtor a negotiable instrument of the
debtor for the amount of his debt, and sells it for its market value to a
third person, cannot sue the debtor on the original debt.
Looney v. District of Columbia, 113 U. S. 258, affirmed.

This was an appeal from the Court of Claims. The petitiofi
set forth contracts between one Cullinane since deceased, the
testator of appellants, who were plaintiffs below, and the performance of the work by Cullinane. The contracts called for
payments in cash. There was a dispute about the quality of
some of the work, which wa§ finally adjusted, and a Settlement made in the manner set forth in the findings of fact by
the Court of Claims as follows:
"XII. After the correspondence hereinbefore set forth,
there were verbal negotiations between the claimant and his
attorney, and individual members of the board, resulting
finally in the signing and sealing by the claimant and the
board of the following paper:
"Whereas differences have existed between the Board of
Public Works of the District of Columbia and Patrick Cullinane in reference to the contract of said Cullinane for improving Four-and-a-half street, in the city ol Washington, it is
agreed to adjust the same by deducting from the total amount
due said Cullinane the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, in consequence of the character of the work, in the judgment of the
board, and the amount equitably chargeable against the Mifetropolitan Railroad Company, which said amount is to be hereafter fixed between said board and said company; bonds to
be issued to said Cullinane for the balance due him.

OCTOBER TER.M,

1886.

Counsel for Appellees.

"Witness our-hands a d seals this thirteenth day of September, A.D. eighteen hundred and seventy-three.
"PATRICK CULLINANE.
H. D. COOKE.
ALEX. R. SHEPHERD.
JAMES A. MAGRUDER.
ADOLF CLUSS.
H. A. WILLAIID.

[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]
[sEAL.]
[SEAL.]

"It does not appear that there was, before or at the time of
the signing of this paper, any other agreement than this
between the claimant and the board as to the settlement of
the matters of difference between them; nor does it appear
that there was any stipulation connected with said -settlement,
which, after having been agreed upon between the parties,
was omitted, by mistake or otherwise, from said paper.
"XIII. In pursuance of the agreement set forth in the next
preceding finding the treasurer of the board issued and delivered to the claimant bonds of the District of C61umbia, of the
description known as 'permanent improvement bonds,' to the
amount, on their face, of $113,950, for that amount found to
be due him for the work done by him under the contracts
referred to in the .first three of the foregoing findings, after
deducting $15,000 for defective work ;. of which bonds the
following is a sample: [Then follows a copy of the bond].'
.

"XI1.

At the time of the delivery of said bonds to the

claimant they were, in the money market, below par, and he
knew that fact.
"XV.' After receiving said bonds the claimant hypothecated $45,000 of them with one Blumenburg, as security for
money borrowed of him. The remainder of them he sold, but
when, or for what prices, does not satisfactorily appear.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition, from which plaintiff appealed.
11.f. -F B. Edwards for appellant.
2fe. Assistant Attorney General .Jfa,,u7 for appellee.

