OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

ASHBY v. HALL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
MONTANA.
Argued November 10, 1886.- Decided December 13, 1886.
The entry in the Land Office of a portion of the public lands in the Territory of Montana, settled upon and occupied as a town-site, under theact of
Congress of March 2d, 1867, "for the relief of the inhabitants of cities
and towns on the public lands," being "in trust for the several use and
benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their respective interests;
the execution of which trust, as to the disposal of the ldts in such town,
and the proceeds of the sales thereof, to be conducted under such rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the legislative authority of the
State or Territory in which the same may be situated," it wps held that
the occupant of a lot in the town which had been surveyed and platted
into streets, alleys, blocks, and lots, continued to possess after such
entry the same right of way over an adjoining alley which he had previously possessed as appurtenant to his lot.
The interests which the occupants possessed previous to the entry, either
in the land occupied by them or in rights of way over adjoining streets
and alleys, were secured by it.
The power rested in the legislature of the Territory was confined to regulations for the disposal of the lots and the proceeds of the sales. These
regulations might extend to provisionfs for the ascertainment of the
nature and extent of the occupancy of different claimants of lots, and
the execution and delivery to those found to be occupants in good faith
of some official recognition of title in the nature of a conveyance; but
they could not authorize any tlimiuution-of the rights of the occupants"
when the extent of their occupancy was established.
The legislature of the Territory could not, under the authority conferred by
the above act of Congress, change or close the streets, alleys; and blocks
of the town by a new survey. Whatever power it may have over them
does not come from the town-site act, but, if it exist at all, from the
general grant of legislative power under the organic act of the Territory.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
3 '. Eppa hunton, for appellant.
with him on the brief. -

No appearance for appellees.

ilr. Jef. Candler was

ASHBY v. HALL.
Opinion'of the Court.

Mm. JTIsncE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes from the Supreme Court of Montana. It
was a suit to abate an obstruction ih an alley in the city of
Helena, in that Territory. The plaintiffs are the owners 6f.
certain lots in a block bordering on the alley, over which they
claim a right of way; aii easement which they or their predecessors used and enjoyed from 1866 to 1871, when the
defendant caused the obstruction complained of.
In the pleadings and in the findings several facts are assumed to be well known, upon which no information is given;
as that the lands within the city of Helena were, in 1869,
entered in the local land office, by the probate judge of the
county, under the town-site act; and that there was an addition to the original limits of Helena, known as Sgott's Addition, within which are the lots owned by the plaintiffs. It
would have facilitated the examination of the case if these
facts had been stated with some particularity, rather than
assumed to be within the knowledge of the court.
The case was brought in'one of the District Courts of the
Territory, and was, by stipulation of the parties, tried without a jury. The facts as found, so far as they are material,
are substantially as follows: In 1866 Scott's Addition to
Helena was laid out, surveyed, and platted into streets, blocks,
lots, and alleys. The alleys ran through the centre of the
blocks, and were sixteen feet.in width. The lots of the plaintiffs adjoined one of these alleys, the passage in which was
obstructed by a fence placed across it by the defendant. The
title to the ground occupied by the town, including the streets
and alleys, was in the United States, until the entry of the
town-site in 1869. The original occupants of the lots recognized the existence of the alley, as did their grantees and successors in interest, Until such entry, and received their deeds
bounded thereon. The principal use of the alley was to take
in wood and hay for the adjoining occupants, and for the ingress and egress of their cows. The plaintiffs and their predecessors in interest had made valuable improvements upon the
lots, to which they held a possessory right at the time of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

entry of the town-site.

Some time afterwards, a new survey

and a map of the town wei-e made, by direction of the probate judge, as trustee, and were approved by the county com.missioners. The survey and map did not show the alley in
question, and no proceedings were taken to correct them in
that particular; and they were filed with the clerk and recorder of the county. In 1871, the defendant entered upon
*and occupied the land embracing the alley in question; and,
in 1872, he received a deed of the same from the probate
judge, no adverse claim having been presented.
-From the facts, of which the above is a brief statement, the
District Court found, as a conclusion of law, that, at the time
of the entry of the town-site by the probate judge, the
plaintiffs and others, as adjacent lot-owners, had a sabsisting
and valid right in the alley, and to the use thereof; that the
probate judge entered the same in connection with the townsite in trust, with the usual rights and interests therein; that
his subsequent conveyance thereof to defendant was void and
inoperative; and, therefore, the non-presentation of an
adverse claim to defendant's application for the ground was
immaterial.
The court, accordingly, adjudged that the plaintiffs were
entitled to a right of way over the sixteen feet of ground adjoining their lots, and to the use of it as an alley-way without
let or hindrance from the defendant or any one acting under
him; and declared that the fence erected across it was a nuisance, to be removed by the sheriff of the county, and that the
defendant and his servants be forever enjoined from erecting
any fence or other obstruction upon the ground. This decree
'was affirmed, on appeal, by the Supreme Court. of the Territory, and from the judgment of the latter court the case is
brought here.
The act of, Congress of March 2, 1867, "for the relief of the
inhabitants of cities and towns upon the public lands," 14 Stat.
541, c. 177, the substance of which has been carried into the
Revised Statutes. ยง 2387, provided that "Whenever any portion of the public lands have been, or shall be, settled upon and
occupied as a town-site, and therefore not subject to entry

ASHBY -v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court

under the agricultural preemption Iars, it shall be lawful, in
case such town shall be incorporated, for the corporate authorities thereof, and if not incorporated, for the judge of the
county court, for the county in which such town ihay be situated, to enter at the proper land office, and at the minimum

price, the land so settled and occupied in trust for the several
use and benefit of the occupants thergof, according to their
respective interests; the execution of which trust, as to the dis,posal of the lots in such town, and the proceeds of the sales'
thereof, to be conducted under such rules and regulations as
may be prescribed by the legislative authority of the State or
Territory in which the same may be situated." It also provided that any act of said trustee not made in conformity with
the rules and regulations mentioned, should be void.
As thus seen, the act required the entry of land settled upon
and occupied, to be in trust "for the several use and benefit of
the occupants thereof according to their respective interests."
The very notion of land settled upon and occupied as a townsite implies the existence of streets, alleys, lots, and blocks;_
and for the possession of the lots, and their convenient use and
enjoyment, there must of necessity be appurtenant to them a
right of way over adjacent streets and alleys. The entry of
the land carried with it such a right of way. The streets and
alleys were not afterwards at the disposal of the government.,
except as subject to such easement.
That portion of the town known as Scott's Addition, within
which is the alley in controversy, was laid out and platted into
streets, alleys, blocks, and lots, as early as 1866; and the lots
were occupied, in conformity vith that survey and plat, when
the entry was made. The right of way, and all appurtenances
to the lots, which were held by the occupants under their possessory claims, continued after the entry, and the receipt of
their deeds or other evidences of title, as before, with the additional support arising from the change of their possessory
claims to estates in fee.
The power vested in the legislature of the Territory in the
execution of the trust, upon which the entry was made, was
confined to regulations for the disposal of the lots and the provoL. cxix-34

