COlT v. GOLD AALGAMATING CO.
Argument for Appellant.

ante, 237, and it is only necessary to refer
now to the opinion in that case and the authorities there cited
for the reasons of .this judgment.
ance Co. v. Rhoa,

Reversed at the cost of the plaintiff in error;

COlT 'v., GOLD AM£ALGAMATING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FORTHE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 18,19, 1886. -Decided December 6,1886.

Where the charter of a corporation authorizes capital stock to be paid fo'
in property, and the shareholders. honestly and in good faith pay for
their subscriptions to shares in property idfstead of money, thikd parties
have no ground of complaint.
A gross and obvious overvaluition of property conveyed to a corporation'
in consideration of an issue of stock at the valuation, is atrong evidence
of fraud in an action against a stockbolder by a creditor to enforce personal liability for his debt.

This was a bill in equity against a corporation and its stockdebt due from the former against the
holders to enforce 'a,
latter. The :case is stated in the opinion of the court.
X,.Edward F Hoffman and 11&. Cha les Hart for appellant cited: Tasker v. Wallace, 6 Daly, 364; Osgood v. Ring,
42 Iowa, 478; TFetherlee v. Baker, 35 N. J. Eq. (8 Stewart)
501, 513.
r.R. C. 3fcurtrie (Yr&. Pierce-Archerwas with'himn on
his brief) cited: Ocldltree v. Railroad Co., L1 Wall. 249; Re
State Ins. Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 28 ; Re Telegraph Construction Co.,
L. R. 10 Eq. 384; Cooperv. .'>ederick, 9 Ala. 738, 742; Re South
.fountain Xifining Co., 7 Sawyer, 30; 8ame 3fatter, 8 Saw- yer, 366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

MR. JuSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant, the Worth Carolina Gold Amalgamating
Company, was incorporated under the laws of North Carolina, on the 30th of January, 1874, for the purpose, among
other things, of working, milling, smelting, reducing, and
assaying ores and metals, with the power to purchase such
propeirty, real and personal, as might be necessary in its business, and to mortgage or sell the same.
The plaintiff is the holder of a judgment against the company for $5489, recovered in the Court of Common Pleas of
Philadelphia, on the 18th of May, 1879, upon its two drafts,
one dated June 1st, 1871, and the other August 15th, 1874,
each payable four months after its date. Unable fo obtain
satisfaction of this judgment upon execution, and finding that
the company was insolvent, the plaintiff brought this suit to
compel the stockholders to pay what he claims to be due and
unpaid on the shares of the capital stock held by then, alleging that he had frequently applied to the officers of the company to institute a suit for that purpose, but that under
various pretences they refused to take any action in the premises.
By its charter the minimum capital stock was fixed at
$100,000, divided into 1000 shares of $100 each, with power
to increase it from time to time, by a majority vote of the
stockholders, to two million and a half of dollars. The charter provided that the subscription to the capital stock might
be paid "in such instalments, in such manner and in such
property, real and personal," as a majority of the corporators
might determine, and that the stockholders should not be
liable for any loss, or damages, or be responsible beyond the
assets of the company.
Previously to the charter, the corporators had been engaged
in mining operations, conducting their business under the name
and title which they took as a corporation. Upon obtaining
the charter, the capital stock was paid by the property of the
former association, which was estimated to be of the value of
$100,000, the shares being divided among the stockholders in

COlT v. GOLD AMALGAMATING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

proportion to their respective interests in the property. Each
stockholder placed his estimate upon the property; and the
average estimate amounted to $137,500. This suni they reduced to $100,000, inasmuch as the capital stock was to be of
that amount.
The plaintiff contends, and it is the principal basis of his
suit, that the valuation thus put upon the property was
illegally and fraudulently made at an amount far above its
actual value, averring tf at the property consisted only of a
machine for crushing ores, the right to use a patent called the
Crosby process, and the charter of the proposed organization;
that the articles had no market or actual value, and, therefore, that the capital stock issued thereon was not fully paid,
or paid to any substantial extent, and that the holders thereof
were still liable to the corporation and its creditors for the
unpaid subscription.
If it were proved that actual fraud was committed in the
payment of the stock, and that the complainant had given
credit to the company from a belief that its stock was fully
paid, there would undoubtedly be substantial ground for the
relief asked. But where the charter authorizes capital stock
to be paid in property, and the shareholders honestly and in
good faith put in'property instead of money in payment of
their subscriptions, third parties have no ground of complaint.
The case is very different from that in which subscriptions to
stock are payable in cash, and where only a part of the instalments has been paid. In that case there is still a debt due to
the corporation, which, if it become insolvent, may be sequestered in equity by the creditors, as a trust fund- liable to the
payment of their debts. But where full paid stock is issued
for property received, there must be actual fraud in the transaction to enable creditors of the corporation to call the stockholders to account. A gross and obvious overvaluation of
property would be strong evidence of fraud. Boynton v. Hatch,
47 N. Y. 225; Fan Cott v. Van Brunt, 82 N. Y. 535; Ca:r
v. Le Fe,e, 27 Penn. St_ 413.
But the allegation of intentional and fraudulent undervaluation of the property is not sustained by the evidence. The

OCTOBER TERrI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

patent and the machinery had been used by the corporators in
their business, which was continued under the charter. They
were immediately serviceable, and, therefore had to the company a present value. The c6rporators may have placed too
high an estimate upon the property, but the court below finds
that its valuation was honestly and fairly made; and there is
only one item, the value of the chartered privileges, which is
at all liable to any legal objection. But if that were deducted,
the remaining amount would be so near to the aggregate capital, that no implication could be raised against the entire good
faith of the parties in the transaction.
In May, 1874, the company increased its stock, as it was authorized to do by its charter, to $1,000,000, or 10,000 shares of
$100 each. This increase was made pursuant to an agreement
with one Howes, by which the company was to give him 2000
shares of the increased stock for certain lands purchased from
him. Of the balance of the increased shares, 4000 were divided among the holders of the original stock upon the return
and delivery to the company of the original certificates - they
thus receiving four shares of the increased capital stock for
one of the original shares returned. The other 4000 shares
were retained by. the company. The land purchased was subject to three mortgages, of which the plaidftiff held the third;
and the agreement was that, under the first mortgage, a sale
should be made of the property, and that mortgages for a like
amount should be given to the parties according to their several
and respective amounts, and in their respective positions and
priorities.
The plaintiff was to be placed by the company, after the release of his mortgage, in the same position. Accordingly he
made a deed to it of all his interest and title under the mortgage held by him, the trustee joining with him, in which deed
the agreement was recited. The company, thereupon, gave
him its mortgage upon the same and other property, which
was payable in instalments. The plaintiff also received at the
same time an accepted draft of Howe's on ihe company for
$1000. When the first instalment on the mortgage became
due, the company being unable to pay it, he took its draft for

