OCto0FlR°-rER3,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

H{ARTSHORN v. SAGINAW BARREL COMPANY.
APPEAT

FROMI

THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF IICHIGAN.

STATES FOR

Argued November 30, 1886. - Decided January 10, 1887.

When'two persons invent the same invention at about the same time, and
'employ thetsame solicitor, who in good faith assigns the priority of invention to the wrong person, and makes claims, and takes out patents for'
each on that theory, limiting the claim of the real inventor to a narrower
claim; not within the claim of the other inventor, and both acquiesce in
this decision for a period of nine or ten years, the acquiescence of the
real inventor must be regarded, so far as his claims are concerned, as an
abandonment of any right on his part to a patent for the broad and real
invention4 and so far as the patentee of it is concerned, the validity of(
his patent fails, because he was not the inventor, and was not entitled
to the patent.
The shade roller manufactured by the appellee, does not infringe patent
No. 69,189, graifted to Jacob David, September 24, 1867, and assigned to
the appellants.

This was a bill in equity to enjoin alleged infringements of
letters-patent. The bill was dismissed, and the complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.r. James T.law for appellant.
him on the brief.

21S.D1.-Lawwas with

.fr. Carkes J Hunt for appellee.
MR.-JusTICE MArTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the complainant's bill, which was a bill in equity for
the purpose of enjoining the alleged infringement of three
several letters-patent for improvements in shade rollers, designated as follows: 1st. Reissued patent No. 7370, dated October 31, 1876, granted to the complainant, called the Hartshorn
reissue. 2d. Reissued patent No. 7367, dated October 31, 1876,
granted to the complainant as assignee of William Cam.pbell,
called the Campbell reissue. 3d. Patent N'o. 69,189, dated

HARTSH'ORN v. SAGINAW BARREL' Co.
Opinion of the Court..

teptember 24, 1867,.granted to Jacob David, and assigned to
the complainant, called the ]avid patent.
The questions in the case involve the validity of the reissued
patents' and the alleged infringement of the David patent.,
The Hartshorn reissue was the reissue of original letters-patent
No. 68,502, dated September 3, 1867. The Campbell reissue
was the reissue of original letters-patent No. -69,176, dated
September 24, 1867. In each case there was, therefbre, a,
delay of about nine years in -obtaining the reissue.
In order to understand and resolve the questions arising in
the case it will be necessary to consider the state of the art at
the time of the issue of the patents. This may be briefly
stated as follows: The inventions in question are in that class
of shade rollers which are rolled up by the unwinding of a
coiled spring; the roller was hollow and the spring placed
within it,,one end being attdched to the roller and the other
end to the shaft or rod on which the roller revolved. Sometimes this rod pa~sed entirely through the roller, and sometimes only partially through. As the curtain was drawn down
the spring was wound up, and when the tension upqn the curtain was released and the curtain, allowed to roll up, the spring
was unwound, thereby producing the desired result. The'upward movement of the curtain was controlled by a pawl and
ratchet at one end of the roller, the pawl or the ratchet being
attached to the bracket. The pawl might be operated by a;
cord hung at. the side of the window; by pulling down on this
cord the pawl was disengaged from the ratchet and the curtain
immediately rolled up under the action of the spring. Hartshorn, the appellant, obtained a patent, not in controversy in
this suit, but to be considered in reference to the state of the
art, dated October 11, 1864. The invention descril -d in that
patent consisted in the application of a pawvl and ratchet or
notched hub arranged in such a manner that the shade may
be stopped and retained at any desired height or point within,
the scope of its movement by a single manipulation of the,
shade, the usual cord for operating or turning the shade roller
being dispensed with entirely, as well as counterpoises, which
had in some instances been employed, in connection with spring

OCTOBER ,,TERM, 1886,
Opinion oi the Court.

rollers, for holding the shade at the desired point. He made
a ratchet with two notches, one on each side in the periphery
of the ratchet wheel, and constructed a pawI to engage with
such notches. The pawl was on the bracket, and the ratchet
was on the roller. When 'the curtain Was drawn down the
spring in the roller was wound up, and when the curtain was
released, while the pawl rested on the perimeter of the ratchetwheel, the curtain would roll up, and continue so to do as long.
as the velocity of the curtain was sufficient to carry the notches
in the ratchet past the pawl before it could fall into them.
Such was the condition of the art when Campbell obtained
his original patent dated September 24, 1867. He described
his invention as having "for its object to furnish an improved
device, by means of which the spring roller of a window-shade
may be made'to hold the shade stationary at any desired elevation, and yet allow the. same to be drawn doyen or run up,
without obstruction or stoppage, as far as may be desired;
and it consists in the combination of the loose or sliding pins
or bolts, having heads formed upon them, with the flattened
shaft of the roller, as hereinafter more fully described." The
description, as contained in the specifications, is as follows,
having reference to the annexed drawings: "A is the windowshade. B is the hollow roller, one end of which is pivoted to
the bracket C, and the other end of which revolves upon the
shaft D, that carries the coiled spring, and the projecting end
o which is s cured in the jaws of the bracket E, so that, by
drwing down the shade A, and thus revolving the roller B,
the coiled spring may be wound closer around the shaft D.
in the block, or part of the roller 3 that closes or forms the
end of the said hollow roller B, and forms its bearing upon
the shaft D, are formed two holes leading, upon opposite sides,
frobn its outer or convex surface to a little at one side of its
centre, as shown in Fig. 2. The outer ends of these holes are
countersunk, as shown. The two opposite sides of the shaft D
within the block or part l' are flattened or notched, as shown
in Fig. 2. F are two pins or bolts, the bodies of which fit
into the holes in the block b', and their heads fit into the countersunk parts of said holes.- The bolts or pins F are of such a

HARTSHORN v. SAGINAW BARREL CO;
Opinion of the Court.

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1886."
Opinion of the Court.

length that when their heads rest against the case or shell of
the roller B, their points may be free from the shaft D, and
-when their heads rest upon the bottom of the countersunk
part of the said holes, their inner ends or points fihay overlap
the flattened sides of the shaft D, so as to bind said shaft and
prevent its revolution. Whenever the shaft D is drawn down
or allowed to run up with a little rapidity, the centrifugal
force engendered by the revolution of the roller B projects the
pin F outward, so that their heads rest against the case or
sl~ell of the roller B, leaving the block 6' free to revolve upon
*the shaft D, but when the motion of the roller :B is checked,
the pin F that happens to be uppermost drops down, so that
its point or forward end rests upon the shaft D, and as soon
as the 'said point reaches the flattened side of said shaft it
drops down a little further, so as to overlap the said flattened
side of the said shaft and hold it securely in place.
"RT1aving thus described my invention, I claim as new and
desire to secure by letters-patent "The combination of the loose or sliding pins or bolts F,
having heads formed upon them, with the flattened or notched
shaft D, substantially as herein shown and described, and for
the purpose set-forth."
On the 3d of - September, 1867, Hartshorn, the appellant,
also obtained his origial patent foran improved shade fixture.
In that specification he describes his invention as relating "to
a new and useful improvement in that class of shade fixtures
in which the shade roller is provided with a spiral spring for
automatically winding up the shade. The present invention
is an improvement on a shade fixture of this class, for which
letters-patent were granted to me, bearing date October 11,
1864, and is designed to obviate an objection attending the
original device, which consists in the unwinding. of the spring
whenever the shade roller is removed from its brackets or bearings, a contingency which involves the necessity of winding up
the spring previous to the replacing of the roller in its bearings,
and which cannot be done by an unsilled person without considerable difficulty." He then proceeds to describe in the specification, by reference to the illustrations, the device which

IIARTSHORN v. SAGINAW JBARREL CO
Opinion of the Court.

embodies this invention, and adds as follows: "The difference,
however, between the within described arrangement and that
essential. In the original plan, the
of 'theorigibal invention -is
spring unwinds immediately as soon as the roller is removed
from its bracket or bearings, as the pawi, instead of being
attached to the roller or any part connected therewith, is
attached to the biacket, the notched hub being attached to
the j6urnal of the roller, and when the notched hub is removed
from the pawl the spring immediately unwinds. In my present improvement the pawl and notched hub, being both connected with the roller, the spring is retained or prevented from
unwinding equally as well when the roller is removed from its
brackets or bearings as when adjusted in them." His claim is
as follows: "The attaching of a pawl and a ratchet or notched
hub to a window-shade roller, provided with a spring or to
parts connected with said roller, in such a manner that the
tension of the spring will, without any manipulation oi adjustment of parts whatever, always be preserved, whether the
roller be fitted in the brackets or bearings or removed therefrom substantially as set forth."
The principle embodied in the Hartshorn patent of 186-1
was that of an automatic pawl'and ratchet, or a pawl so constructed and arranged, with respect to the ratchet, that the
pawl would be caused to engage with the ratchet to stop and,
hold the shade at any desired height or point, or would be
prevented from engaging with the ratchet by merely varying
the speed of the revolution of the roller, which was effected
thrnough the simple manipulation of the shade alone by the
hand of the operator, the pawl engaging with the ratchet
when the roller was revolved slowly, and not engaging when
the roller was made to revolve quickly. He thus dispensed
entirely with cords for operating'the roller, and with counterpoises, and with the old spring pawl and ratchet which required the use of both hands in manipulating the roller and
controlling the shade in its ascent under the force of the
spring, as by its use the shade could be raised or lowered by
the manipulation of the shade alone in the hands of the operator. In what wa' previously known as the coach fixture, it.

OCTOBER 'TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

was necessary, while one hand of the operator lifted the pawl
from the ratchet by means of the cord, to hold the shade with
the other hand, or else the shade would quickly fly up for its
Whole extent. The particular construction or arrangement of
pawl and ratchet described by Hartshorn, in his patent of
1864, as his invention, consisted of a ratchet or notched hub
6n the end of the roller and revolving with it, and o pawl
placed upon the bracket or stationary part of the fmxtur6 and
'dropping into the ratchet or notched hub by gravity. The
pawl being mounted on a different part of the fixture from
that on which the ratchet was mounted, the latter being on
the revolving roller and the former on the stationary part of
the brAcket, it was the necessary result, from such a construetion5 that, when the roller, as a whole, was removed out of its
learings, there would be a disconnection and disengagement
of the pawl and ratchet, and the spring would uncoil or run
down, Iiecessitating the winding up of the spring before the
.roller was again replaced in its bearings,'which was i difficult
thing to be done, particularly by those having the fixture in
hse. It was also inherent in the arrangement of the pawl and
ratchet used in this roller -the pawl being stationary and
Testing on the upper side of the revolving notched hub or
ratchet as the roller and its notched hub or ratchet revolved
unde the stationary pawl -that there would be more or less
noise in its operation, caused by the notched hub striking
against and throwing up the pawl.
It will, therefore, be perceived that the Hartshorn patent of
Septembet 3, 1867, and the Campbell patent of September 24,
1867, are for improvements upon the invention described in
the Hartshorn patent of 1864, and in any comparison between
the two former the invention embodied in the original Hartshom patent of 1864 must be eliminated as common to both.
The circumstances relied upon to justify and make valid the
reissues in 1876 of the Hartshorn patent of 1867, and the
Campbell patent of the same year, are conceded to be as "follows: In 1873 a suit was brought In the district of Massach-setts upon the David patent by the Salemn &SadeRolle '
Conyany, then the owner of it, against one TFlllan G. Harris,

HARTSHORN v. §.4INAW BARREL CO.

' 671

jpinioin of the Court.

who was selling rollers made by Hartshorn, the present appellant, who assumed the defence of that suit. The rollers sold
by Harris had the pawl arranged so as to move towards and
away from the axis of the roller, as described and claimed in
the David patent, but this pawl was different in form from.
that shown in the David patent, and engaged with the spindle
instead of with the bracket. The transcript of the record in',
that suit is in evidence in this, and shows that it was made to
appear, in the effort to fix the dates of the inventions de-.
scribed in the three patents of David, of Campbell, and of
Iartshorn, that Campbell made his invention on the 1st of
May, 1867, while Hartshorn was not able to fix the date of his
invention as earlier than about the 1st of August, 1867. It,
was thus shown that while Hartshorn had the elder patent he
was the junior inventor, and as the claim in the Hartshorn
patent of 1867 covered the invention described in the Campbell'
patent, there was a conflict between the two which it was"
sought to reconcile by reissues, Hlartshorn becoming the owner
by assignment of the Campbell patent. Accordingly, in, the
reissue of the Hartshorn patent of 1867, made October 31,
1876, being one of .the patents now sued upon, the patentee
enters the following disclaimer. He says: "I do not claim
generally the arrangement of both the pawl and ratchet upon
or in connection with the roller, so that the roller can be removed from its brackets without permitting the spring to unwind, as I believe such an arrangement of pawl or detent and
ratchet, as shown in the patent of William Campbell granted
to him September 24, 1-867, had been known previous to beng
made by myself." He then adds his claim, modified as fol*lows: "In a spring sade roller having a pawl or detent and
ratchet, or their equivalent, constructed and arranged so as to
engage automatically for holding the shade at any desired
point or height, the combination with a ratchet, or its equivalent, upon the stationary spindle or stationary part of the fixture, of a hinged or pivoted pawl placed upon the end of the
roller and acting; substantially at, right ailgles .to the ratchet
or notched hub."
In the Campbell reissue of October 31, 1876, the claims are.
stated as follows :

OCTOBER TERM

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

"1. In a spring shade roller, having a pawl or detent and
a ratchet, or their equivalent, so arranged as to allow the shade
to be drawn down or run up without obstruction, and which
engage automatically with each other to hold the shade in any
desired position, the arrangement of such pawl or detent on
the roller which carries the notched spindle or ratchet, so that,
when the roller is removed from its brackets, the tension of
the spring will be preserved.
2. In a spring shade roller, having a detent and ratchet,
or their equivalent, constructed and arranged to engage automatically with each other for holding the shade, the combination, with the ratchet, or its equivalent, of a loose pawl or
detent, moving in a chamber or guide, and adapted to engage
with the spindle.
"3. The combination of the loose or sliding pins or detents
F, constructed as described, with the flattened or notched
shaft or spindle, substantially as herein shown and described."
It thus appears that the third claim of the reissued Campbell patent of 1876 is identical with the entire claim of the
original Campbell patent of 1867, the first and second claims
in the reissued patent being entirely new.
In the original Hartshorn patent of September 3, 1867, he
characterizes the invention as an improvement upon that contained in his patent of 1864, in this, that the pawl and notched
hub, being both connected with the roller, the spring is retained or prevented from unwinding equally as well when the
roller is removed from its brackets or bearings as when adjusted in them; and he states his claim as follows: "The
attaching of a pawl and a ratchet or notched hub to a window-shade roller provided with a spring, or to parts connected
with -said roller, in such a manner that the tension of the
spring will, without any manipulation or adjustment of parts
whatever, always be preserved, whether the roller be fitted
in the brackets or bearings or removed therefrom, substantially as set forth." This claim in the reissued patent of
October 31, 1876, is changed so as tM read as follows : "In a
spring shade roller having a pawl or detent and ratchet, or
their equivalent, constructed and arranged so as to engage

HARTSHORN v. SAGINAW BARREL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

automatically for holding the shade at any desired point or
height, the combination with a ratchet, or its equivalent, upon
the stationdry spindle or stationary part of the fixture, of a
hinged or pivoted pawl placed upon the end of the roller*and
acting substantially at right angles to the ratchet or notched
hub."
In the case of Hartslwhn v. The Eagle 8hade Roller Coanpazny & Others, 18 Fed. Rep. 90, decided in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts,
the validity of the Campbell reissue of 1876 was questioned
and affirmed. It appears also in that case that the originalpatent of Hartshorn of 1864 had been surrendered and a reissue
obtained, No. 2756, August 27, 1867, being the same in evidence in this cause, for the purpose of showing the state of
the art at that time. This reissue, No. 2756, was also questioned in the case just referred to, and held to be invalid on
the ground that the reissued patent extended the'claim of the
original patent, so as to cover a shade roller where the pawl
and the ratchet are both affixed to the roller, so that the roller
might be detached from the bracket without unwinding; and
that within the decision of 3-filler v. Brass Company, 104 U.
"S.350, there had been an unreasonable delay in obtaining the
reissue amounting to laches. That reissue was accordingly
held void, but the Campbell reissue of 1876 was held valid,
notwithstanding the admitted enlargement of the claim and
the delay in obtaining the reissue for nearly ten years. The
ground of the decision was that the patentee did not discover
until in 1874 that he was entitled to a priority of invention
over Hartshorn, whose patent of 1867 covered the same claim.
His solicitor, who was also the solicitor for Hartshorn, in obtaining the two patents had assumed that Hartshorn was the
first inventor, because his application was received first, and
had framed the application of Hartshorn accordingly, and
caused that of Campbell. to correspond, limiting his claim to
the particular form of the device, and granting to Hartshorn
the broad claim now found in the Campbell reissue. This
mistake seems to have been discovered, as already stated, by
the taking of the testimony of the parties in the case of the
vOL. cx=x-43

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Salem Saade Roller Company v. .arris, Uli spfra the proceedings and decree in which are in evidence in this cause.
The reissue of both patents was applied for and obtained within
two years after the discovery of this alleged mistake, and as
the exclusive right to the invention was apparently covered
by the claim of the Hartshorn patent of 1867, it was inferred
and held by the learned Circuit Court of the Massachusetts
District that there were no laches in the delay, and no evidence
of an abandonment to the public of the invention. In the
opinion of that court it is said, 18 Fed. Rep. 92: "Campbell,
misunderstanding perhaps his rights, or the true state of
things, a~quiesced through his solicitors, who were common
to both parties, in the broad claim of Hartshorn. When the
mistake was discovered, it was corrected by a simple exchange
of claims. We are of opinion that, under these unusual circumstances, the lateness of the application is explained and
shown to have been brought about by an actual mistake without fraud, and to have been one from which no innocent person could have suffered."
We are not satisfied, however, with either this reasoning or
the conclusion. Campbell's acquiescence in Hartshorn's claim
must be regarded, so far as he is concerned, as an abandonment
of any right on his part to a patent for the same invention,
and, having deliberately rested in that acquiescence for a period
of between nine and ten years, it is too late, according to the
settled course of decisions in this court, to resume his rights.
it is, accordingly, no answer to this view to say that, in the
meantime, the invention was not dedicated to the public by
Campbell's abandonment, because it was covered by Hartshorn's claim; for, according to the supposition, Iartshorn's
was a false claim, and though it may not be regarded as
fraudulent, but founded upon an honest mistake, nevertheless
the validity of his patent must have failed whenever called in
question and the facts were made known, as they did become
known, in the suit against Harris. The mutual mistakes of
the two parties cannot be consideredl as correcting each other.
Hartshorn claimed an invention to which he now confesses he
was not entitled, and for that reason his original patent was

HARTSHORN v. SAGINAW BARREL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

invalid. Campbell contented himself with the narrow claim
originally contained in his patent of 1867, and thereby acknowledged that he was not entitled to the broader claim
which he now asserts under his reissue. He had the means
and the opportunity at the time the application for his original
patent was pending to have asserted his claim to priority of
invention; he chose not to do so. He acquiesced in the claim
of his adversary; he cannot now claim what he then abandoned.
The question of laches is perhaps immaterial, for the reissue
of the Campbell patent was not for the same invention described and claimed in the original. This does not rest merely
on the enlargement and change in the nature of the claim.
The specification itself was substantially altered. -The alterations, itis said in argument, had the effect only of giving a
more full, complete, and accurate description of the same
mechanism; but, in point of fact, the alterations changed the
shape of the specification in such a way as to admit the new
and enlarged claim in a manner in which it could not have
been made upon the original description. A comparison
between the original and reissued patents shows that the specification of the latter has been materially changed so as to
cover, as the invention of the patentee, that function of the
structure by which the spring will be locked when the roller as
a whole is removed from the brackets, in respect to which the
original patent is entirely silent. We are, therefore, of the
opinion that the first claim of the Campbell reissue, the only
one alleged to be infringed in this case, is void.
We are also of opinion that the Hartshorn reissued patent,
No. 7370, of October 31, 1876, is void on a different ground.
That reissue disclaims what was claimed in the original patent,
viz.: The arrangement of both the pawl and the ratchet upon
or in connection with the roller, so that the roller can be
removed from its brackets without permitting the spring to
unwind, for the reason that 'uch an arrangement had been
previously invented by Campbell; and, instead of that claim,
the teissued patent is confined to climing "the combilnation
with a ratchet, or its equivalent, upon the stationary spindle

OCTOBER T1
ERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

or, stationary part of the fixture, of, a hinged or pivoted pawl
placed upon the end of the roller, and acting substantially at
right angles to the ratchet or notched hub." But, according
-to the admission of all the parties, Campbell was a prior
inventor of the arrangement by which the paivl and ratchet
were combined upon the roller in such a way'as to allow the
roller to be removed from its brackets without permitting the
spring to unwind. Such a combination, therefore, was not
the subject of a subsequent patent of itself, unless some additional novelty and utility were introduced into the combination
by reason of some substantial change in the form or mode of
operation of the parts. But in this reissued patent of Hartshorn there is nothing novel, either in the pawl or the ratchet,
or the mode in which they jointly coiperate to produce the
desired result. The fact that the paw]. is described as acting
substantially at right angles to the ratchet or notched hub
does not seem to introduce any new or useful element. The
combination covered by the claim in the reissued patent is, in
-law and in fact, merely a mechanical equivalent for that which
was already covered by the Campbell patent, which had the
priorit,, of invention. For this reason, therefore, we hold the
Hartshorn reissue of 1876 to be invalid.
It remains now only to consider the question of the alleged
infringement of -the David patent, No. 69,189. The invention
is claimed to have been made in December, 1866, though the
patent was granted on September 24, 186(. It is for an improvemeit upon the original invention of Hartshorn, as described in his patent of 1864, and must be construed with
reference to that. it seems to have had for its object .to do
away with the noise produced in the Hartshorn roller by the
contact of the pawl with the ratchet. That objection to the
iartshorn roller, David says in his testimony, was what incited
him "to invent something that would do away with the noise."
Ie gave a new form to the pawl and ratchet used, and also
shifted the ratchet from the roller and made it apart of the
bracket, which was a stationary part of the fixture, and applied
the pawl or engaging'part to the revolving roller. His pawl
was "an arm or detent," hinged or pivoted in a radial slot in,

HARTSHORN v. SAGINAW BARREL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and arranged in the plane of the axis of, the roller; the free
end of the arm projecting beyond the end of the roller, so
that, as the latter revolved rapidly, the free end of the pawl
or arm would be carried away from the axis of the roller by
the motion of the roller itself. By this movement, when the
roller was rapidly turned, sending the detent outward, it would
pass over the elevated side of the journal-box, which constituted the ratchet. When the roller moved slowly or was in a
state of rest, the action of gravity brought the detent towdrd
the centre of the roller when the detent was above the centre,
and at such time the detent engaged the elevated side of the
journal-box or ratchet, and the revolution of the roller was
arrested. His roller was also made of wood bored out at one
end to receive the spring, and he placed at one afid the same
end of -the roller the spring which caused the shade to rise,
the stationary spindle to which one end of the spring was
attached, and the arm or pawl, whereby he was able to saw
off the other end of the roller to fit any width of window.
As the pawl was on the revolving roller and the ratchet on.
the bracket, when the roller was removed from its brackets
the pawl and the ratchet became disconnected, so that the
spring would uncoil instead of holding the parts in place.
The claims of the David patent are as follows:
"1. The arm or detent k, arranged upon the roller in such
a manner that it moves toward and away from the centre or
axis of the roller a by the action of gravity and centrifugal
force, substantially as described.
"12.The combination and arrangement, at the same end of
a shade roller, of a spring e, rod d, and. arm or detent 7,, or
their mechanical equivalents, substantially as described."
The device is illustrated by drawings accompanying the
specification of the patent, as follows:
.Fig.2.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
Xvi.

1.

It is to be observed that in these claims nothing is said
about the combination of the arm or detent k, with the elevated side of the journal-box, which is a distinct and separate
part of the mechanism; and yet it is perfectly obvious that it
is only in combination with that separate ratchet that the
arm or detent k performs any useful function at all. The fact

HARTSHORN v. SAGINAW BARREL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

that the arm or detent k, arranged on the roller in the manner described, moves toward and away from the centre or
axis of the roller in consequence of the motion of the roller
itself, is not patentable independently of any useful combination in which it performs a necessary part. Any arm or
detent, pivoted at one end and loose at the other, would necessarily follow the motion of the roller, the loose end flying outwardly. The same remarks apply to the second claim of the
combination and arrangement of the roller and spring, the
rod, and the arm or detent at the same end of the roller.
They perform no function by reason of the circumstance of
their being at the same -end of the roller, except in conjunction
with the ratchet on the bracket, and there is no novelty in
such a combination and arrangement, as the sanie thing was
found-in the original Hartshorn patent. It follows, therefore,
that in the construction of the David patent the claims must
be confined, by reference to the specification, to the use of the
devices named, in a shade roller, where the pawl or detent is
upon the roller, moving with it, and the ratchet or engaging
pait is separated by being placed upon a journal-box or bracket,
or other fixed part of the mechanism, and that it must also be
limited to the particular form of the arm or detent described.
It follows from this that the shade roller manufactured and
used by the defendants is not an infringement of the David
patent. In the defendants' roller, the pawl and the ratchet
are both upon one end of the roller, the pawl being upon the
revolving part and the ratchet upon the fixed part of the roller,
and the pawl and ratchet are of a different form from those
covered by the David patent.
We hold, therefore, upon this part of the case, there was no
infringement.
Ihe decree below 'w"&, therefore, right, a"'d is t'flrmed.

