GERMANIA INSURANCE CO. v. 'WISCONSIN.

473

Statement of Facts.

GERMANIA INSURANCE COMPANY v.WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Submitted November 23, 18S6.-Decided December 13, 1886.

A suit by a State in one of its own courts cannot be removed to a Federal
court under the act of 187, unless it be a suit arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made under their -authority. Ames v Kansas, 111 U. S.449, affirmed.
A suit cannot be said to be one arising under the Constitution or laws of
t e United States until it has in some way been made to appear on the
face of the record that "some title, right, privilege, or immunity, on
which the recovery depends, will be defeated by one construction of the
Constitution or a law of the United States, or sustained by an opposite
construction." Starin v. N¥ew York, 115 U. S.248, affirmed.
An insurance company of New Orleans was summoned into a State. court
of Wisconsin by the State in order to recover from it statutory penalties
for doing business in the State without complying with its laws. Service of process was made on A, a citizen of Wisconsin who was described in the sheriff's return as "being then and there an agent" of the
company. The company made a special appearance and moved to vacate
all proceedings for want of jurisdiction, and filed in support of it affidavits to the effect that A was never its agent, and that it had no agent
in the State and had had none for ten years then last past : Held, That
this issue was a mixed question of law and fact, in no way dependent
upon the construction of the Constitution or any law of the United
States, and as the complaint disclosed no reason for the removal of the
cause to a Federal court, it was not removable.

This was a writ of error brought under a 5 of the act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, for the review of an
order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had beenentered in that court as a suit removed from a State court.
The record showed a suit brought by the State of Wisconsin,
in one of its own courts, against the Germania Insurance
Company of New Orleans, an insurance company incorporated
by the State of Louisiana, and having its principal office and
place of business in New Orleans, to recover certain statutory

penalties for doing business in Wisconsin without complying

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statemeut of Facts.

with the laws of that State in reference to foreign insurance
companies. The only process in the cause was served, December 29, 1885, on L. D. Harmon, a citizen of Wisconsin,
and described in the sheriff's return as "being then and there
an agent of the said defendant."
On the 12th of April, 1886, the insurance company came,
and, 6ntering "its special appearance in- the action
for the purpose of this motion only," moved the court "to
vacate and set aside the pretended service of summons" as
above stated, "and all and every proceeding in said action
subsequent thereto, for want of jurisdiction, and irregularity
-insaid pretended service of process." In support of this
motion an affidavit of the vice-president and of the secretary
of the company was filed, to the effect that Harmon was
never the agent of the company, and that the company had
no agent in the State, and had had no agent, and had not
transacted insurance business there for ten years then last
past. Before any action was had upon this motion, the company, on the same 12th of April, presented to the court its
petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of
-the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, in
which was set forth the motion to set aside the service of the
summons in the action and the special appearance of the company for the purposes of that motion only, and the grounds
of the motion. The petition then stated, "that the suit
arises out of a controversy between the parties in rogard to
the operation and effect of certain provisions of the laws of
the State of Wisconsin, said to be in conflict with the Constitution of the United States in various particulars, and necessitating a construction thereof, among which subjects of controversy are the following, to wit:
t' Whether the attempt of the State to prevent the company
from doing .business in the way it was done was niot in conflict with § 1, Art. 14, and with § 8, Art. 1, of the C6nstitu'ion; and
"Whether the aforesaid proceedings in said court, and the
attempt to proceed against your petitioner by service of- sunmons or process upon one not authorized to represent it, with-

GERMANIA LNSURANCE CO. v. WISCONSIN.

475

Opinion of the Court.

out appearance in court, constitutes 'due process of law'
within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States."
The State court refused to allow a removal, and thereupon
the company took a copy of the record to the Circuit Court,
where proceedings were had on the 29th of May in accordance.
with the following docket entry:
"The State of Wisconsin
VO.

The*Germania Insurance Company of New Orleans.
"And comes the defendant, specially appearing by Cotzhausen, Sylvester, Scheiber & Sloan, for purposes of pending
motion only, and moves the court for an order docketing this
cause, which motion was granted eoparte; and the defendant,
appearing specially for the purposes of this pending motion,
gives notice that on the 7th day of June, A.D. 1886, at the
opening of court on that day, or as soon thereafter as counsel can be heard," the plantiff will be required to show cause
"why the pending motion to set aside the pretended service of
summons and all subsequent proceeding in said cause should
not be taken up, heard, and considered."
On the 24th of June the Circuit Court remanded the cause,
whereupon this writ of error was sued out.
.J~l.
F.

TI. Cozitausen for plaintiff in error;

Mre. f

iF. Chynoweth for defendant in error.

Mr.CirEF JusTicE WArrE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
A suit by a State in ofie of its own courts cannot be removed to a Circuit Court of the 2United States under the act
of 1875, unless it be a suit arising under the C6nstitution or
laws of the United States or treaties made under their authority, Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S.449; and a suit cannot be said
to be one arising under the Constitution or'laws of the United
States until it has in some way been made to appear on the
face of the record that "some title, right, privilege, or inmu-

OCTOBER T-RM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

nity, on which the recovery depends, will be defeated by one
construction of the Constitution or a law of the United States,
or sustained by an opposite construction.' Starin v. New
York, 115 U. S. 248, 257. This record shows no such thing,
for, as the case now stands, the right of recovery depends
alone on the question whether service of summons has been
made on a person who was at the time an agent of the company within the State on whom process might legally be
served, so as to bind the company and bring it within the
jurisdiction of the court. This is a mixed question of law and
fact, and in no way dependent on the construction of the Constitution or any law of the United States. If decided in one
way, the suit will be at an end and the company relieved from
all necessity of appearing to defend. If in another, the company must appear or suffer the consequences of a default. As
yet no suit arising under the Constitution or laws of the Tnited
States has been brought, within the meaning of that term as
used in the statute. There is nothing in the complaint which
discloses any such case, and, until the company submits itself
to the jurisdiction of the court for the trial of the suit, it cannot be permitted to allege any new matter. All further proceedings have been stopped by the company on its own motion
until it can be determined whether any suit at all has in law
been begun so as to require the company to appear and defend.
The case stands, therefore, on the summons, the alleged service, the complaint, the special appearance of the company for
the purposes of its motion to vacate the service, and the petition for removal, which must be limited in its statements to
such as are consistent with the special appearance which has
been entered. No new matter in the nature of a defence to
the action can be introduced. -The only question which can
be considered in the case as it now stands is whether Harmon,
on whom this process was served, was in fact an "authorized
agent." The suit, therefore, does not, as yet, "really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court," and it was properly remanded.
The order to that effect is consequently
Affirred.

