GILBERT 'v. MOLINE PLOUGH CO.
Opinion of the Court.

show that the plaintiffs' claim did include a 'part of that
claimed by the defendants in this action.
_For these eason the judgrnent of the Supreme Court is r'eversed, and the eae remacltded for furtherp
proceedings.

GILBERT v. MOLINE PLOUGH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
A:rgued December 3, ISS6. -Decided

OF DAKOTA.

December 20, 1886.

A, having received from B an order for goods, declined to comply with it
on the ground that he was not sufficiently advised of B's responsibility.
B thereupon procured from C a writing stating that C was acquainted
with B, indorsed him as an honest, capable business man deserving bf
credit, and would satisfy all his orders that spring. B delivered this to
A. A thereupon notified B that the guaranty was accepted and forwarded the goods. B having failed to pay his notes given for them, A
sued on the letter of credit. C defended by setting up the original order
given by B as part of and explanatory of the credit. The court below
held that the letter of credit was complete and could not be changed by
importing into it the previous order. This court sustain that ruling.
Whether a letter-press copy can always be introduced in place of the original, quwre.
When the introduction of a letter in evidence is immaterial and works no
prejudice to the objecting party, this court will not reverse a judgment
for that cause only.

This was an action at law on a contract of guaranty. Judgment for the plaintiff, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territbry.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
._N. IT _Y W ton for plaintiff in error, submitted on his
brief.
.3fr. 1R. D. .ft'ssey for defendant in error.

Mx. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of th, Court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Dakota. The action was brought by the Moline Plough
Company, as plaintiff, against Herman Gilbert and Jacob
Schartzel, defendants. It was tried before a jury, and verdict
rendered for the plaintiff. This judgment, on appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, was affirmed. The suit was
founded on the following instrument in writing, signed by the
defendants:
"Sioux FALLS, D.T., -Uarkc 9th, 1878.
"_foline PlougA Co., 31oline, 1ll.
"Sirs: We, the undersigned, are acquainted with Peter Gillman, of this place, (formerly of Fond Da Lac, Wis.,) and have
no hesitation in indorsing him as an honest, capable business
man and deserving of confidence and credit. We think your
informant, in regard to Mr. Gillman's business ability and
capacity, was in error, if not selfish and malicious. We will
satisfy all orders Mr. Gillman gives this spi ing, such as ploughs
and cultivators.
Wm. B. DIcK.
"H. GILBERT.
JACOB SMA.nTZEL."

It seems that on January 21, 1878, Peter Gillman had sent
an order to the Mfoline Plough Company requesting them to
forward him certain goods in which they were dealing, and
specifying the terms of payment, with which they declined to
cgmply, on the ground that they were not sufficiently advised
of his responsibility. After obtaining the above instrument,
signed by the defendants, Gillman enclosed it to the Plough
Company with the following.letter:
"Sioux FA-LLS, D.T., 3Iarck 9th, 1878.
"IJlXlnePlditgh Co., 3fOline, ill.
"Sir: Will you accept my order under the recommend
enclosed; if so, ship me the breakers as ordered; also the cultivators and. about 6 vibrating harrows. Hoping we will get
better acquainted, I am sorry about such a report as stated

GILBERT v. MOLINE PLOUGH CO.

493.-

Opinion of the Court.

to you, and I know you will think so much more of me. (Too
late in season for harrows.)
"I remain, yours,
PETFR GLMAx.
"If you accept my order, please ship the goods at once, and
oblige
P. G."
The plaintiffs accepted the guaranty, notified Gillman that it
was accepted, and forwarded the goods. The dealings between
these parties under this guaranty continued during the spring;
the last shipment being made about Alay 24, 1878. On July
28th followig a settlement was made, and for the balance
found due from Gillman to plaintiffs two notes were given,
one payable September 15, 1878, and the other November 15,
1878.
An attempt was made by the defendants to show that
credits were given in this transaction which released them
from the liability of their letter o.f credit or guaranty.. To
establish this they insisted that the original order given. by
Gillman in January was to be taken as a part of or an explanation of their letter of credit. The court held that the letter
of credit was complete within itself, and that the defendants
could not import into it by parol any additional agreement as
to the time and character of the credit to be given to Gillman,
and instructed the jury to that effect. This is the principal
error relied upon to reverse the judgment, which we think is
no error.
The instrument sued on contains no reference to the previous letter of Gillman to the Plough Company, nor any
restriction as to the terms on which they held themselves
liable for his orders, except that they shall be given "this
spring." The language used is, "We will satisfy all orders
Mr. Gillman gives this spring, such as ploughs and cultivators."
The letter from Gillman dated March 9th, referring to his
previous order, is in fact a new order of that date, and evidently made under and in pursuance of the guaranty of the,
defendants. All the goods delivered to Gillman by the plaintiffs for which suit is now brought against the defendants were

,494

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered during that spring, and were delivered after the
receipt of this guaranty. The court was right therefore in
not permitting the defendants to explain or qualify that guaranty by the parol testimony which they offered. Nor do we
see anything in the testimony, as found in the bill of exceptions,
to discharge the defendants from the obligation incurred by
the letter of credit, or guaranty, whichever it may be.
An error is assigned by the brief, on the admission in evidence on the part of the plaintiffs of a letter-press copy of a
letter of the Moline Plough Company to Gillnan, signed by
Lobdell, the witness, on the part of that company. It is a
reply to the letter received from Gillman of March 9, 1878,
enclosing the guaranty, and reads as follows:
Falls, D.T.
"Yours of the 9th is at hand, and satisfactory. We will
ship your goods in a day or so, and hope they will arrive
"PTEr GILLmAN, Esq., Sioux

promptly.

LOBDELL."

The objection was made that it was a letter-press copy and
not the original. Without deciding whether a letter-press
copy can always be introduced -inplace of the original, as is
contended by the counsel for the defendant in error, it is sufficient to say that Lobdell, the witness, had previously testified,
without objection, that he had acknowledged the receipt of
the letter of guaranty and order by a letter to Gillman, in
which he told him that the goods would be shipped in a few
days. The introduction of this copy was, therefore, wholly
inuaterial And even without such proof the acknowledgment of the letter of Gillman was unnecessary to fix the liability of the defendants, and could have worked no prejudice.
These are all the assignments of error worthy of attention,
and the judgment of the Supreme Courtis therefore
Afflrwed.

