OCTOBER TERMN,

1886.

Syllabus.

trenches ready, but the castings, when furnished to them, were
defective in size, and expense and delay ensued, in remedying
the defects, causing a damage to the plaintiffs, as alleged, of
$750. The defendant contends that the clause in the contract
which provides that the plaintiffs "shall have no claim upon
the city for any delay in the delivery of pipes or other materials from the manufacturers," throws the loss from these defects
on the plaintiffs. But we do not so think. The defects were
such as could not be detected till the castings were being put
in place, and the claim is not for delay in their delivery, within
the meaning of the clause referred to. Nor does any work
done by the plaintiffs in altering the castings, come under, the
head of such extra work as required a written order.
The size of the valve-boxes is not mentioned in the contract,
nor their cost. They were, therefore, to be of the usual size
and cost. The trustees afterwards required the valve-boxes
to be of a size which made them cost $3 more each than those
of the usual size would have cost. This was a change of plan,.
and the increased work caused by it is agreed to be paid for,
but there is no contract rate for work of the class. The item
of $441 seems to be recoverable.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court, with a direction to award a new
trial.
Judgment reversed.

CLARK v. WOOSTER.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 8, 9, 1886. -Decided

December 6, 1888.

If a'suit in equity to restrain from infringing letters patent and to recover
profits and damages be commenced so late that under the rules of the
court no injunction can be obtained before the expiration of the patent,
the bill should be dismissed for want of equity jurisdiction: but if it be
begun in such time that an injunction can be obtained before the expira-

CLARK v. WOOSTER.
OpiniQn of the Court.
tion of the patent, although only three days remain for it to run, it is
within the discretion of the court to take jurisdiction; and if it does so,
it may, without enjoining the defendant, proceed to grant the other
incidental relief sought for.
This court will not assume, without proof, that a reissue made fourteen
years after the issue of the original patent enlarges the original claim,
or that it was sought for the purpose of enlarging it.
Thomson v.
Wooster, 114 U. S. 104, affirmed and applied.
Establighed license fees are the best measure of damages in suits for
infringing patents.

This was a bill in equity for infringing a patent for an
invention. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.3t . Erederi k P. Fi h for appellants.

-Mr. T. L. Liver-

,inorewas with him on the brief.
.3/r. F 'ederic H. Betts for appellee.

hr. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit on a patent, brought by Wooster, the appellee,
against the persons composing the firm of Johnson, Clark and
Co., of New York, to restfain them from infringing the patent,
and to recover profits and damages. The bill was filed on the
20th of December, 1879, and th; patent expired fifteen days
afterwards. The patent was for folding guides used on sewing
machines, and is the same that was involved in the case of
Tltmrson v. Wooster, 114 U. S. 104. It was granted to one
Douglas in October, 1858, for a period of fourteen years,
was extended in October, 1872, for seven years longer, and
- was then, in th6 same month, surrendered and reissued.
The
bill does not specify the particular ground on which the reissued patent was granted, and although the answer avers that
it was unlawfully granted, that the original was sukrendered
for the purpose of claiming more and other things than were
described and claimed in it, and that the reissued patent is
not for the same invention for which the original was granted,
it does not set out the original, nor was the original put in evidence in the cause, and no evidence was offered to substantiate

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the allegations of the answer. The complainant produced the
reissued patent in evidence and proved infringement. The
defendant adduced evidence before the examiner, but out of
time, and it was ruled out by the court. A decree was made
establishing the patent, and the infringement thereof by the
defendants, and referring it to a master to take and state an
account of profits, and to assess damages, and-the defendants
were ordered to produce their books, papers, and devices used,
so far as related to the matter in issue. Upon this reference,
the parties entered into a stipulation before the master, by
which the defendants admitted that they had purchased and
disposed of 15,000 folding guides covered by the decree, and in
consideration thereof the complainant waived all further testi-mony as to profits received by the defend~nts therefrom, and
agreed to rely on proof of damages in place of profits. The
complainant adduced evidence to show that he had an established license fee of ten cents for each folding guide purchased
or disposed of, and had granted licenses at that rate to divers
sewing machine companies. The maiter bQing satisfied with
this evidence, reported the damages at $1500. The defendants
filed a number of exceptions to the report, none of which were
sustained, and a decree was entered for the amount of damages reported. The defendants thereupon appealed.
The points taken by the' appellants are:
First. That the court below, sitting as a court of equity,
had no jurisdiction of the case, because the complainant had a
plain and adequate remedy at law.
Second. That the reissue of the patent was illegal by.
reason of laches in applying for it.
Third. That the court erred in finding that the measure of
damages was an established license fee, and that such license
fee was proved.
As to the first point, the bill does not show any special
ground for equitable relief, except the prayer for an injunction. To this the complainant was entitled, even for the short
time the patent had to run, unless the court had deemed it
improper to grant it. -If, by the course of the court, no injunction could have been obtained in that time, the bill could very

CLARK v. WOOSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

properly have been dismissed, and ought to have been., But
by the rules of the court in which the suit was brought only,
four days' notice of application for an injunction was required.
Whether one was applied for does nbt appear. But the court
had jurisdiction of the case, and could retain the bill, if, in its
discretion, it -saw fit to do so, which it did. It might have
dismissed the bill, if it had deemed it inexpedient to grant an
injunction; but that was a matter in its own sound discretion,
and with that discretion it is not our province to interfere,
unless it was exercised in a manner clearly illegal. We see no
illegality in the manner of its exercise in this case. The jurisdiction had attached; and although, after it attached, the principal ground for issuing an injunction may have ceased to exist
by the expiration of the patent, yet there might be other
grounds for the writ arising from the possession by the defendants of folding guides illegally made or procured whilst
the patent was in force. . The general allegations of the bill
were sufficiently comprehensive to meet such a case. But even
without that, if the case was one for equitable relief when the
'suit was instituted, the mere fact that the ground for such
relief expired by the expiration of the patent, would not take
away the jurisdiction, and preclude the court from proceeding
to grant the incidental relief which belongs to cases of that
sort. This has *often been done in patent causes, and a large
number of cases may be cited to that effect; and there is
nothing in the decision in Boot v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189,
to the contrary. CottoA Tie Co. v. Simmons, 106 U. S. 89;
Lake Shore, &e., Railway v. Car-Brake Co., 110 U. S. 229;
Consolidated Valve Co. v. Crosby Fave Co., 113 U. S. 157;
TAormon v. Wooster, 114 U. S. 104. It is true that where a
party alleges equitable ground for relief, and the allegations
are not sustained, as where a bill is founded on an allegation
of fraud, which is not maintained by the proofs, the bill will be
dismissed iA toto, both as to the relief sought against the
alleged fraud, and that which is sought as.incidental thereto.
The point insisted on, that the bill contained no charge of
continued infringement, or of infringement at the time .of commencing the suit, if it were material, is not sustained by the
fact. The bill does contain such a charge.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

As the court had jurisdiction at the inception of the suit,
even though upon a narrow ground, yet, as the defendants did
not ask the dismissal of the bill on the gTound of want of jurisdiction, we should be very reluctant, if we had the power,
now, on an appeal, after the case has been tried and determined, to reverse the decree.
The second point raised was substantially disposed of in the
case of Thomson, v. Wooster, quc sujora. The allegations in the
present bill are the same as they were in that case. Neither
the bill nor the proofs show anything from which the court
can infer that the reissue was illegally granted; and the allegations of the answer are unsupported by evidence. The reissued patent itself made aprimafacie case for the complainant. The allegations of the answer, that it'was issued fol the
,mere purpose of expanding the claim of the original, and that
it was for another and different invention, should have been
proved. But we have no evidence on the subject;not even the
original patent with which to compare the reissue. This
point, therefore, is wholly without foundation.
The third point, as to the measure of damages, and the want
of proof thereof, is equally untenable. It is a general rule in
patent causes, that established license fees are the best measure
of damages that can be used. There may be damages beyond
this, such as the expense and trouble the plaintiff has been put
to by the defendant; and any special inconvenience he has
suffered from the wrongful acts of the defendant; but these
are more properly the subjects of allowance by the court, under
the authority given to it to increase the damages.
As to the sufficiency of the proof, we see no occasion to disturb the .conclusion reached by the master on this point. The
complainant proved several instances of licenses given by him
to large sewing machine companies, the fees on which were
regularly paid, and corresponded with the rate allowed by the
master. We think that, the defendants have no occasion to
complain of the amount awarded.
The decree of the Circuit Court isqflrned.

