UINITED STATES v. RAUSMHER.
Syllabus.

temporary interposition of a separating medium or a cutting
instrument, so that -one block could upheave or be removed
without disturbing the adjoining blocks. The patentee, in the
disclaimer, expressly disclaimed "the forming of blocks from
plastic material without interposing anything between their
joints while in the process of formation."
It appears that the defendant laid his pavement in strips
fr6m the curb of the sidewalk inward to the fence, in one
mass, and then marked the strip crosswise with a blunt marker,
which is made an exhibit, to the depth of about one sixteenth
of an inch. But it is not shown that this produced any such
division into blocks as the patent speaks of, even in degree.
There were no blocks produced, and, of course, there was
nothing interposed between blocks. The mass underneath was
solid, in both layers, laterally. So far as appears, what the
defendant did was just what the patentee disclaimed. The
marking was only for ornamentation, and produced no free
joints between blocks, and the evidence as to the condition of
the defendant's pavements after they were laid shows that
they did not have the characteristic features above mentioned
as belonging to the patented pavement.
Without affirming or disaffirming the constructions givc n to
the patent in the particular cases cited from the Circuit Courts,
we are of opinion *that,under any construction which it is possible to give to the claims, the defendant in this case has not
infriiged.
Dicree afji'med.

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF OP1INIOY
OF THE U1NITED

FROMt "TE

STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN

CIRoUIT

DISTRI(T

COUIzT

OF INEW

YORK.
SubmiLted March 2,1886.-

Decided December 6, 1886.

Apart from the provisions of treaties on the subject, there exists no welldefined obligation on one independent nation to deliver to another fugitives from its justice; and though such delivery has often been made,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
it was upon the principle of comity. The rightto demand it has not been
recognized as among ihe duties of one government to another which rest
upon establislieo principles of international law.
In any question of this kind which can arise between this country and a foreign nation, the extradition inust be negotiated through the Federal goveminent, and not by that of a State, though the demand may be for a
crime committed against the law of that State.
With most of the civilized nations of the world with which the United States
have much interbourse, this matter is regulated by treaties, and the question now decided arises under the treaty of 1842 between Great Britain
and the United States, commonly called the Ashburton Treaty.
The defendant in this case being charged with murder on board an Amercan vessel on the high seas, fled to England, and was demanded of the
,go'ernment of that country, and surrendered on this charge. The Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, in
which he was tried, did not proceed against him for murder, but-for a
minor offence not included in the treaty of extradition; and the judges of
tbat court certified to this court for its judgment the question whether.
this cou'ld be done. HeZd:
(1) That a treaty to which the United States is a party is a law of the
land, of which all courts, state and national, are to take judicial notice,
and by the provisions of which they are to be governed, so far as tley
are capable of judicial enforcement.
(2) That, on a sound construction of the treaty under which the defendant was delivered to this country, and under the proceedings by which
this was done, and acts of Congress on that subject, Rev. Stat. § 5272,
5275, he cannot lawfully be tried for any other offence than murder.
(3) The treaty, the acts of Congress, and the proceedings by which he
was extradited, clothe him with the right to exemption from trial -for
any other offence, until he has had an opportunity to return to the
country from which he was taken for the purpose alone of trial for the
offence specified in the demand for his surrender. The national honor
also requires that good faith shall be kept with the country which surrendered him.
(4) The circumstance that the party was convicted of inflicting cruel and
unusual punishment on the same evidence which was produced before
the committing magistrate in England, in the extradition proceedings
for murder, does not change the principle.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr.Solicitor General Goode for the United States.
Xr. A. J Dittenhoefer for IRauscher submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.

. 409

Oj nion of ,the Court.

This ease comes before us on a certificate-of division of opinion between the judges holding the Circuit Court of the Unite d
Statei for the Southern District of New York, arising after
verdict of guilty, and before'judgment, on a motion in arrest
of judgment.
The prisoner, William Rauscher, was indicted by a grand
jury, for that, on the 9th day of October, 1884, on the high
seas, .ouit of the jurisdiction of any particular state of the
United States, and witt'in the admiralty and maritime jurisdic-"
tion thereof, he, the said William Rauscher, being then and
there second mate of the ship J. F. Chapman, unlawfully made,
an assault upon Janssen, one of the crew of the vessel of which
he was an officer, and unlawfully inflicted upon said Janssen
oruel and untusual punishment. This indictment was found
under § 5347 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
The statemeht of the division of opinion between the judges'
is in the following language:
" This cause coming on to be heard at this term, before.judgment upon the verdict, on a motion in arrest'of judgment, ahd
also on a motion for a new trial before the two judges above
mentioned, at such hearing the following questions occurred:
"First. The prisoner having been extradited upon a charge
of murder on the high seas of one Janssen, under § 5339 Rev.
Stat., had the Circuit Court of the Southern District of New
York jurisdiction to put him to trial upon an indictment under
§ 534 7 Rev. Stat., charging him with cruel and unusual punishment of the same man, he being one of the crew of -an
American vessel of which the defendant was an officer, and
such punishment consisting of the identical acts proved in the
.extradition proceedings?
"Second. -Did or not the prisoner, under the extradition
treaty with Great Britain, having been surrendered upon a
charge of murder, acquire a right to be exempt from prosecution upon the charge set forth in the indictment, without
being first afforded an opportunity to return to Great
Britain ?
"Third. Was it error on the part of the trial judge to overrule a plea to the jurisdiction of the court to try the indictment

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

under § 5347 of the United States Revised Statutes, charging
the accused with cruel and unusual punishment of one Janssen,
one of the crew of -a vessel of which accused was an officer, it
having been established upon said plea that the accused was
extradited under the extradition treaty with Great Britain,
upon the charge of murder of the same Janssen, under § 5339
of the United States Revised Statutes?
"Fourth. Was it error on the part of the trial judge to
refuse to direct a verdict of acquittal, after it had been proven
that the accused was extradited under the extradition treaty
with Great Britain, upon the charge of murder, it also appearing that in the proceedings preliminary to the warrant of
extradition the, same act was investigated, and the same witnesses examined, as at the trial?
"In respect to each of which questions the judges aforesaid
were divided.in opinion.
"Wherefore, at the same term, at the request of the United
States attorney, they have caused the points above stated to
be certified under the seal of this court, together with a copy
-of the indictment and an abstract of the record, to the Supreme
Court of the United States for final decision according to law.
"Wm. T. WALLACE.
"On .. L. BENEDICT."
The treaty with Great Britain, under which the defendant
was surrendered by that government to ours upon a charge of
murder, is that of August 9, 1842, styled "A treaty to settle
and define the boundaries between the territories of the
United States and the possessions of Her Britannic Majesty
in No6rth America; for the final suppression of the, African
slave trade; and for the giving up of criminals, fugitive fKom
justice, in certain cases." 8 Stat. 5,76.
With the exception of this caption, the tenth article of the
treaty contains all that relates to the subject of extradition of
criminals. That article is here copied, as follows:
"It is agreed that the United States and Her Britannic
Majesty shall, upor mutual requisitions by them, or their
ministers, officers, or authorities, respectively made, deliver up

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.

M

-

Opinion of. the Court.

to justice all persons who, being charged with the crime of.,
murder, or assault with intent to commit murder, or piracy,
or arson, or robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of forged
paper, coimitted within the jurisdiction of either, shall seek*
an asylum, or shall be found, within the territories of the
other: provided that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place
where the fugitive or person so charged shali be found, would
justify .his apprehension and commitment f6r trial, if the crime
or offence had there beeii committed; and the respective
judges and other magihtrates of the two Governments shall
have power, jurisdiction, and authority, upon complaint 'made
under oath, to issue a warrant for the apprehension of the
fugitive or person so charged, that he may be brought before
such judges or other magistrates, respectively, to the end that
the evidence of, criminality may be heard and considered; and
if, on such hearing, the evidence be deemed sufficient to sustain the charge, it shall be the duty of the examining judge
or magistrate to certify the same to the proper Executive
authority, that a warrant may issue for the surrender of such
fugitive."
Not only has the general subject of the extradition of persons charged with crime in one country, who have fled to and
sought refuge in another, been matter of much consideration
of late years by the execuative departments and statesmen of
the governments of the civilized portion of the world, by various publicists and writers on international law, and by specialists on that subject, as well as by the courts and judicial
tribunals of different countries, but the precise questions arising under this treaty, as presented by the certificate of the
judges in this case, have recently been very much discussed in
this country and in Great Britain.
It is only in modern times that the nations of the earth have
imposed upon themselves the obligation of delivering up these
fugitives from justice to the States where their crimes were
committed, for trial and punishment. This has been done
generally by treaties made by one independent governmentwith another. Prior to these treaties, and apart from them,

:412

OCTOBER ,TERU, 1886."
Opinion of the Court.

it may be stated a' the general result of the writers upon international law,'that there was nQ well-defined obligation oft
one country to deliver up such fugitives to another, and though
such delivery was often made, it was upon the principle 6f
comity, and within the discretion of the government whose
action was invoked; and it has never been recognized as
among those obligations of one government towards another
which rest upon established principles of international law.
Whether in the United States, in the absence of any treaty
on the subject with a foreign nation from whose justice a fugitive may be fouiid in one of the States, and in the absence of,
any act of Congress upon the subject, a State can, through its
own judiciary or executive, surrender him for trial to such foreign nation,, is a question which has been under consideration
by the courts of this country without any very c6nclusive
result.
In the case of .Daniel Waskhbwu, 4 Johns. Ch.106; S. C. 8 Am.
Dec. 548, who was arrested on a charge of theft committed in
Canada, and brought before Chancellor Kent upon a writ of
habeas corpus, that distinguished jurist held that, irrespective of
all treaties, it was the duty of a State to surrender fugitive criminals. The doctrihe of this obligation was presented with great
ability by that leained jurist; but shortly afterward Chief Justice Tilghman, in the case of iShort v. Deacon, 10 S. & R. 125, in
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, held the contrary opinion that the delivery up of a fugitive was an affair of the executive branch of the national government, to which 'the demand
of the foreign power must be addressed; that judges could
not legally deliver up, nor could they command the executive
to, do so; and that no magistrate in Pennsylvania had the
right to cause a person to be arrested in order to afford the
President of the United States an opportunity to deliver him
up, because the President had already declared he would not
do so.
In the case of IRolmes v. e'nnison, 14 Pet. 540, on a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Vermont, it appears that application had been made to the President for the e tradition of
Holmes, a naturalized citizen of the United States, who was

UNITED STATES v. IZAUSCIIER.
Opinion of the Court.

charged with having committed murder in Lower Canada.
There being then no extradition treaty between the tw6 governments, the President declined to act, through an alleged
want of power. Holmes having been arrested under authority
from Governor Jennison, of Vermont, obtained a writ of
1tabeaq corpus from the Supreme Court of that State, and the
sheriff returned that he was detained under an order of the
governor, which commanded the sheriff to deliver him up .to
the authorities of Lower Canada, and the Supreme Court of
the State held the return sufficient. On the writ of error
from the Supreme Come of the United States two questions
vere presented, first, whether a writ of error would lie in such
case from that court to the Supreme Court of the State; and,,
second, whether the judgment of the latter court was right.'
The eight judges -who heard the case in this-court were equally
divided in opinion on the first of these questions, and therefore
no authoritative decision of the principal question could be
made. A very able and learned opinion in favor of the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
aid against the right attempted to be exercised by the governor of Vermont, was delivered by Chief Justice Taney, with
-whom concurred Justices Story, McLean, and Wayne. Justices Thompson, Barbour, and Catron delivered separate opinions, denying the power of the Supreme Court of the United
States to revise the judgment of the Supreme Court of Vermont. These latter, with whom concurred Justice Baldwin,
did not express any clear opinion upon the power of the
authorities of the State of Vermont, either executive or judicial, to deliver Holmes to the govermnent of Canada; but,'
upon return of the case to the Supreme Court of that State,
it seems that that court was satisfied by the argunents of the
Chief Justice and those who concurred with him of the error
of its position, and Holmes was discharged. In the final disposition of the case the court uses the following language:
"I am authorized by my brethren," says the Chief Justice,
"to say, that, on an examination of this case, as decided by the
Supreme Court of the the United States, they think, if the return
had been as it now is, a majority of that court would have

414

,OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

decided that Holmes was entitled to his discharge, and that
the opinion of & majority of the Supreme Court of the United
States was also adverse to the exercise of the power in question byany of the separate States of the Union. The judgment of the court therefore is, that Holmes be discharged from
his imprisonment.". Eeparte Hfolmes, 12 Vt. 631.
The Court of Appeals of New York, in the case of [The
Peo1ple, &c. v. Cwrtis, 50 N. Y. 321, also decided that an act of
the Legislature of that State authorizing the rendition to foreign States of fugitives from justice was in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States. This was in 1872.
The question has not since arisen so as to be decided by this
court, but there can be little doubt of the soundness of the
opinion of Chief Justice Taney, that the power exercised by
the'governor of Vermont is., part of the foreign intercourse
of this country, which has undoubtedly been conferred upon
'the Federal government; _and that it is clearly included in the
treaty making power and the corresponding power of appoint'ing and receiving ambassadors and other public ministers.
There is no necessity for the states to enter upon the yelations
.with foreign nations which are necessarily implied in tke
extradition of fugitives from justice found within the limits of
the state, as there is none why they should in their own name
,make demand upon foreign nations for the surrender of such
fugitives.
At this time of day, and after the repeated examinations
which have been made by this court into the powers of the
Federal government to deal with all such international questions
exclusively, it can hardly be admitted that, even in the absence
of treaties or acts of Congress on the subject, the extradition
-of a fugitive from justice can become the subject of negotiation
•between a state of this Union and a foreign government.
Fortunately, this question, with others which might arise in
the absence of treaties or acts of Congress on the subject, is
now of very little importance, since, with nearly all the nations
of the world with whom our relations are such that fugitives
from justibe may be found within their dominions or within
ours, we have treaties which govern the rights and conduct of

UNITED STATES v. RAU8CHIER.
Opinion of the Court.

the parties in such cases. These treaties are also supplemented
by abts of Congress, and both are in their nature exclusive.
The case we have under consideration arises under one of
these treaties made between the United States and Great
Britain, the country with which, on account of our intimateo
relations, the cases requiring extradition are likely to be most,
numerous. This treaty of 1842 is supplemented by the-acts of
Congress of August 12, 1848, 9 Stat. 302, and March 3, 1869,
15 Stat. 337, the provisions of which are embodied in §§ 5270,
5272, and 5275 of the Revised Statutes, under Title LXVI,
Extradition.
The treaty itself, in reference to the very matter suggested
in the questions cel fled by the judges of the Circuit Cqurt,
has been made the subject of diplomatic negotiation between
the Executive Department of this country and the government
of Great Britain in the cases of Winslow and Lawrence. Winslow, who was charged with forgery in the United States, had
taken refuge in England, and, on demand being made for his
extradition, the Foreign Office of that country required a preliminary pledge from our government that it would not try
him for any other offence than the forgery for which he was
demanded. To this Mr. Fish, the Secretary of State, did not
accede, and was informed that the reason of the demand on
the part of the British government was that one Lawrence,
not long previously extradited under the same treaty, had been
prosecuted in the courts of this country for a different offence
from that for which he had been demanded from Great Britain,
and for the trial of which he was delivered up by that government. Mr. Fish defended the right of the government or
state in which the offence was committed to try a person. extradited under this treaty for any other criminaloffence, as well
as for the one for which the extradition had been. demanded;
while L6rd Derby, at the head of the Foreign Office in England, construed the treaty As requiring the government which
had demanded the extrad:tion of an offender against its laws
for a prescribed offence, mentioned in the' treaty and in the
demand for his extradition, to try him for that offence and for
no other. The correspondence is an able one upon both sides,

OCTOBER TEAM; 48-".
Opinion of the Court.

And presents the question which we are now required to decide,
as to the construction of the treaty. and the effect of. the acts
of Congress already cited, and of a ,statute of Great Britain of
1870 on the same subject. The negotiations between the two
governments, however, on that subject were inconclusive in
any other sense than that Winslow was ilot delivered up and
Lawrence was never actually brought to judgment for any other
offence than that for which his extradition was demanded.
The question was also discussed in the House of Lords, and
Lord Derby stated and defended his views of the'construction
of the treaty with marked ability, while he conceded that the"
act of Parliament on that subject, which declared that, the
person extradited could be tried for no other offence than that
for which he had been demanded, had no obligatory force upon
the United States as one of the parties to the treaty. Fbreign
Relations of the United States, 18767, pp. 204-307.
The subject was also very fully discussed by Mr. William
Beach Lawrence, a very learned authority on matters of international law living in this country, in several published artides. Albany Law Journal, vol. 14, p. 85; voL'15, p. 224; vol.
16, p. 361. In these the author, with his usual ability, maintains
the proposition, that a person deliveied up undei this treaty
on a demand charging'him with a specific offence, mentionied
in it, can only be tried by'the country to which he is delivered
for that specific offence, and is entitled, unless found guilty of
that, to be restord in safety to the country of his asylum at
the time of his extradition.
A very able article arising out of the same public discussion
at that time, to wit, 1876, is found in the American Law Review, said to have been written by Judge Lowell, of the United
States Court at Boston, in which, after an examination of the
authorities upon the general rule, independent of treaties, as
found in the continental writers' on international law, he says,
that rule is, that the person whose extradition has been granted,
cannot be prosecuted and tried except for the crime for which
his extradition has been obtained; and, entering upon the question of the construction of the treaty of 1842, he gives to it
the same effect in regard to that matter. 10 Am. Law Review,
1875-6, p. 617.

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. David Dudley Field, in his draft of an outline for an international code, published about the same time, adopts the
same principle.

Field's International Code, § 237, p. 122.

It

is understood that. the rule which he lays down represents as
well what he under, ands to be existing law, as also what he
supposes it should be.

-

A very learned and careful work, published in this country
by' Mr. Spear, in 1879, and a second edition in 1884, after considering all the correspondence between our government and
Great Britain upon the subject, the debate in the House of
-Lords, the articles of Mr. Lawrence and Judge Lowell, as well
as the treatise of Mr. Clarke, an English writer, with a very
exhaustive examination of all the decisions in thiis country relating to this matter, arrives at the same conclusion. This
examination by Mr. Spear is so full and careful, that it leaves
nothing to be desired in the way of presentation of authorities.
The only English work on the subject of extradition we
have been able to find which discusses this subject is a small
manual by Edward Clarke of Lincoln's Inn, published in 1867.
He adopts the same view of the construction of this tieaty
and of the general principles of international law upon the
subject which we have just indicated.
Turning to seek in judicial decisions for authority upon the
subject, as might be anticipated we meet with nothing in the
Einglish courts of much value, for the.reason that treaties made
by the Crown of Great Britain with other nations are not in
those courts considered as part of the law of the land, but the
rights and the duties growing out of those treaties are looked
upon in that country as matters confided'wholly for their execution and enforcement to the executive branch of the government. Speaking of the Ashburton treaty of 1842, which we
are now construing, Mr. Clarke says, that, "in England the
common law being held not to permit the surrender of a criminal, this provision could not come into effect without an Act
of Parliament, but in the United States a treaty is as binding'
as an Act of Congress." Clarke on Extradition, 38.
This difference between the judicial powers of the courts of
Great Britain and of this country in regard to treaties is thu
voL. cxrx-27

OCTOBER TERM,- 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

alluded to by Chief Justice Y,arshall in the Supreme Court of
the United States:

"A treaty is in 'its nature a contract between two nations,
not a legislative act. It does not generally effect, of itself, the
object to be accomplished, especially so far as its operation is
infra-territorial; but is carried into execution by the sovereign
power of the respective parties to the instrument. In the
United States a different principle is established. Our Constitution declares a treaty to be the law of the land. It is,
consequently, to be regarded in courts of justice as equivalent
to an act of the legislature, whenever it operates of itself without the aid of any legislative provision. But when the terms
of the stipulation import a contract, when either of the parties
engages to perform a particular act, the treaty addresses itself
to the political, not the judicial department; and the legislature must execute the contract before it can become a rule for
the court." .Fosterv. NYeilson, 2, Pet. 253, 314.
This whole subject is fully considered in the Head lfoney
Cases, 112 U. S. 580, in which the effect of a treaty as a part
of the law of the land, as distinguished from its aspect as a
mere contract between independent nations, is expressed in the
following language:
" A treaty is primarily a compact between independent
nations It depends for the enforcement of its provisions on
the interest and the honor of the govermuents which are parties to it. If these fail, its infraction becomes the subject of
international negotiations and reclamations, so far as the
injured party chooses to seek redress, which may in the end
be enforced by actual war. It is obvious that with all this the
judicial courts have nothing to' do" and can give no redress.
But a treaty iz-y also contain provisions which confer certain.
rights upon the citizens or subjects of one of the iations residing in the territorial limits of the other, which partake of the
nature of municipal law, and which are capable of enforcement
as between private parties in the courts of the country. An
illustration of this character is found in treaties which regulate the mutual rights of citizeis and subjects of the contracting nations in regard to rights of property by descent or

UNITED' STATES v. RAUSCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

inheritance, when the- individuals concerned are aliens. The*
Constitution of the United States places such provisions as
these. in the same category as other laws of Congress, by its
declaration that 'this Constitution and the laws made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made or which shall be made
unde4 authority of the United States, shall be.the supreme
law of the land.' A treaty, then, is a law of the land, as an
act of Congress is, whenever its provisions prescribe a rule by
which the rights of the private citizen or subject maybe determined. And *rhen such rights are of a nature to be enforced
in a court of justice, that court resorts to the treaty for, arule
of decision for the case before it as it would to a statute." pp.
598-9. See also Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S.536,
540, 565.
The:treaty of 1842 being, therefore, the supreme law of the
land, which the courts are bound to take judicial notice of,
and to 'enforce in any appropriate proceeding the rights of
persons growing out of that treaty, we proceed to inquirie,
ii the first place, so far as pertinent to the questions certified by the circuit judges, into the true construction oftthe
treaty. We have already seen that, according to the doctrine"
of publicists and writers on international law, the country
receiving the offender against its laws from another country
had no right to 'proceed against him for any other offence
than that for which he had been delivered up. This is a
principle which c6mmends itself as an appropriate adjunct
to the discretionary, exercis6 of the power of rendition, be-'
cause it can hardly be supposed that a, government which
was under no treaty obligation nor any absolute obligation
pf public duty to seize a person who had found an asylum
within its bosom and turn him over to another countryfor trial, would be willing to do this, unless a case was
made of some specific offence of a character which-justified
the government in depriving the party of his asylum. It
is unreasonable that the country of the asylum should be
expected to deliver up such person to be dealt with by the
demanding government without any limitation, implied or
otherwise, upon its prosecution of the party. In exercising its

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion, it might be very willing Lo deliver ip offenders
against such laws as were essential to the protection of life,
liberty, and person, while it would not be willing to do this on
account of minor misdemeanors or of a certain class of political offences in which it would have no interest or sympathy.
Accordingly, it has been the policy of all governments to grant
an' asylum to persons ho have fled from their homes on
account of political disturbances, and who might be there
amenable to laws framed with regard to such subjects, and to
the personal allegiance of the party. In many of the treaties
.of extradition between the civilized nations of the world, there
is an express exclusion of the right to demand the extradition
of offenders against such laws, and in none of them is this class
of offences mentioned as being the foundation of extradition
proceedings. Indeed, the bnmneration of offences in most of
these treaties, and especially in the trehty now under consideration, is so specific, and marked by such a clear line in
regard to the magnitude and importance of those offences, that
it is impossible to give any other interpretation to it than that
of the exclusion of the right of extradition for any others.
. Itis, therefore, very clear that this treaty did not intend to
depart in this respect from the recognized public law which
had prevailed in the absence of treaties, and that it was not
intended that this treaty should be used for any other purpose
than to secure the trial of the person extradited for one of the
offences .enumerated in the treaty. This is not, only apparent
from the general principle that the specific enumeration of
certain matters and things implies the exclusion of all others,
but the entire face of the treaty, including the processes by
which it is to be carried into effect, confirms this view of the
. subject. It is unreasonable to suppose that any demand for
rendition framed upon a general representation to' the government of the asylum, (if we may use such an expression,) that
the party for whom the demand was made was guilty of some
violation of the laws of the country which demanded him,
without specifying any particular offence with which he was
charged, and even without specifying an offence mentioned in
the treaty, would receive any serious attention; and yet such

UNITEJ_

STATES' v. RAUSCHER.
Opinion of tlhe- Court.

properly
is the effect of the construction that the party 'is
liable to trial for any other offence than that for which h6.
was demanded, and which is described in the treaty. There
would, under that view of the subject, seem to be no need of
a description, of a specific offence in making the demand.
But, so far from this being admissible, the treaty not only
provides that the party shall be charged with one og the'
crimes mentioned, to wit, murder, assault with intent to commit murder, piracy, arson, robbery, forgery, or the utterance
of forged paper, but that evidence shall be produced to the
judge or magistrate of the country of which such demand is
made, of the commission of such an offence, and that this
evidence shall be such as according to the law of that country
would justify the apprehension and commitment. for trial of
the person so charged. If the proceedings under which
the party is arrested in a country where he is peaceably and
quietly living, and to the protection of whose laws he is entitled, are to have no influence in limiting the prosecution in
the country where the offence is charged to have been committed, there is very little use for this particilarity in chaifging
a specific offence, requiring -that offence to be one mentioned
in the treaty, as well as sufficient evidence of the party's guilt
to put him upon trial for it. Nor can it be said that, in
the exercise of such a delicate power under a treaty so well
guarded in every particular, its provisions are bbligatory
alone on the State which makes the surrender of the fugitive,
and that that fugitive passes into the hands of the country
which charges him with the offence, free from all the positive
requirements and just implications of the treaty under which
the transfer of his person takes place. A moment before he
is under the protection of a government which has afforded
him an asylum from which he can only be taken under a very
limited form of procedure, and a moment after he is found in
the possession of another sovereignty by virtue of that proceeding, but divested of all the rights which he had the
moment before, and of all the rights which the law governing that proceeding was intended to secure.
If ripon the face of this treaty it could be seen that its sole

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

•object was to secure the transfer oi ar individual from the
jurisdiction of one sovereignty to that of another, the argument might be sound; but as this right of transfer, the right
to demand it, the obligation to grant ivt, the proceedings under
which it takes place, all show that it is for a limited and defined purpose that the transfer is made, it is impossible to conceive of the exercise of jurisdiction in such a case for any other
purpose than that mentioned in the treaty, and ascertained by
the proceedings under which the party is extradited, without
an implication of fraud.upon the rights of the party extradited,
and of bad faith to the country which permitted his extradition. No such view of solemn public, treaties between, the
great nations of the earth can be sustained by a tribunal called
upon to give judicial construction to them.
The opposite view has been attempted fo be maintained in.
this country upon the ground that there is no express limitation in the treaty of the right of the country in which the
offence was committed to try the person for the crimI-,. alone
for which he was extradited, and that once being within the
jurisdiction of that country, no 'matter by what contrivance or
fraud or by what pretence of establishing a charge provided
for by the extradition treaty he may have been brought within the jukisdiction, he is, when here, liable to be tried for any
offence against the laws as though arrested here originally.
This proposition of the absence of express restriction in the
treaty of the right to try him for other offences than that for
which he was extradited, is met by the manifest scope and object of the treaty itself. The caption of the treaty, already
quoted, declaring that its purpose is to settle the boundary line
between the two governments; to provide for the final suppression of the African slave trade; adds, "and for the giving
up of criminals, fugitive from jiistice,in certain ases." The
treaty, then, requires, as we have already said, that there shall
be given up, upon requisitions respectively made by the two
governments, all persons charged with any of the seven crimes
enumerated, and the provisions giving a party an examination
before a proper tribunal, in which, before he shall be delivered
up -on this demand, it must be shown that the offence for which

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.
Opiulon of the Court.

he is demanded is one of those enumerated, and that the proof'
is sufficient to satisfy the court or magistrate before whom
this examination takes place that he is guilty, and such as the
law of the State of the asylum requires to establish such guilt,
leave no reason to doubt that the fair purpose of the treaty,
is, that the person shall be delivered up to be tried for that offence and for no other.
If there should remain any doubt upon this construction of
the treaty itself, the language of two acts of Congress,, heretofore cited, incorporated in the Revised Statutes, must set this
question at rest. It is there declared, Rev. Stat. § 5272, the,
two preceding sections having provided for a demand upon
this country and for the inquiry into the guilt of the, party,'
that "it shall be lawful for the Secretary of State, under his.
hand and seal'of office, to order the person so committed tQ
be delivered to such person or persons as shall be authorized,
in the name and on behalf of such foreign government, to be
tried for the crirme oof which uch person shall be so accused,
and such person shall be delivered up acctordingly."
For the protection of persons brought into this counti' by
extradition proceedings froifi a foreign country, § 5275 of the
Revised Statutes provides:
"Whenever any person is delivered by any foreign government to an agent of the United States, for the purpose of
.being brought within the United States and tried for anycrime of which he is duly accused, the President shall have
power to take all necessary measures for the transportation
and safe keeping of such accused person, and for his security
against lawless violence, until the final conclusion of his trial
for the crimes or offences specified in the warrant of extradition, and until his final discharge from custody or imprisonment for or on accbunt of such crimes or offences, and for a"
reasonable time thereafter, and may employ such portion of
the land or naval forces of the United States, or of the militia
thereof, as may be necessary for the safe keeping and protection of the accused."
The obvious Meaning of these- two statutes, which have
reference to all treaties of extradition made by the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

States, is that the party shall not be delivered up by this government to be tried for any other offence than that charged in
the extradition proceedings; and that, when.brought into this
country upon similar proceedings, he shall not be arrested or
tried for any other offence than that with which he was
charged in those proceedings, until he shall have had a reason'able- time to return unmolested to the country from which he
was brought. This is undoubtedly a congressional construction of the purpose and meaning of extradition treaties such as
the one we have under consideration, and whether it is or not,
it is conclusive upon the judiciary of the right conferred upon
persons brought from a foreign country into this under such
proceedings.
That right, as we understand it, is that he shall be tried only
for the offence with which he is charged in the extradition
proceedings and for which he was deliveied up, and that if not
tried for that, or after trial and acquittal, he shall have a reasonable time to leave the country before he is arrested upon
the charge of any. other crime committed previous to his extradition.
This precise question has been frequently considered by
courts of the highest respectability in this country. One of
the earliest cases is that of United States'v. Caldwell, 8 Blatchf9rd, 131. Caldwell was extradited from Canada, in 1870,
under the treaty of 1842 with Great Britain, charged with forgery.' He was not tried for this offence, however, but was
tried and convicted for bribing an officer of the United States
- an offence- not designated in that treaty. In the Circuit
Comt of the United States, held by Judge Benedict, Caldwell
called the attention of the-court to this fact, and claimed that
under the treaty he could not be tried for any offence committed prior to his extradition other than the one charged in
the proceedings. To this plea the government interposed a
.demurrer, which was sustained, and the prisoner was tried,
convicted, and punished for the bribery. Judge Benedict said, .that, "while abuse of extradition proceedings, and want of
good faith in resorting to them, doubtless constitute a good
cause of complaint between the two governments, such com-

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.

'-25

Ophiipn of the Cgurt.

plaints do not form a.proper subject o .nvestigation in the
courts, however much those tribunals might regret that they
But whether
'should have been permitted to arise.
extradited'in good faith or not, the prisoner, in point of fact,
is within the jurisdiction of the court, charged with a crime
therein committed; and I am at a loss for even a plausible
reason for holding, upon such a plea as the present, that the
And I cancourt is without jurisdiction to try him.
not say that the fact that the defendant was brought within
tL jurisdiction by virtue of a warrant of extradition for the
crime of forgery affords him a legal exemption from prosecution for other crimes by him committed."
The next case, tried before the same court, was that of
United States v. Lawrence, 13 Blatchford, 295. Lawrence
was extradicted from Ireland and brought into this country
under the treaty.of 1842 on a charge of a single and specific
forgery. He was indicted and put upon his trial for other
forgeries than that specified in the extradition proceedings. To
his trial for any other forgery than that he objected by proper
pleadings, on the ground that under the treaty with Great
Britain he could not be so tried for other forgeries. Judge
Benedict held that he could be so tried, and he was tried- and
a verdict of guilty was rendered. It appears, however, but
not very clearly from any report of the case, that, though tried
and convicted, and having pleaded guilty to the other offences
of forgery, he was admitted to bail and no judglhient was ever
pronounced. Judge Benedict, adverting to the case of United
States v. Caldwell, and to a decision of the Court of Appeals
of New York in Adriavie v. Lagrave, 59 N. Y. 110, proceeded
to say:
"This ground of defence is, therefore, dismissed, with the
remark that an offender against the justice of his country can
acquire no rights by defrauding that justice. Between him
and the justice he has offended, no rights accrue to the offender
by flight. He remains at all times, and everywhere, liable to
be called to answer to the law' for his violations thereof, provided he comes within the reach of its arm."
And in addition to the proposition urged in the Caldwell

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

case, that a question of that character arising on the treaty is
exclusively for the consideration of the Executive Departments
of the respective governments, he proceeds to say:
"It is true that it [the act of Congress] assumes, as well it
may, that the offender will be tried for the offence upon which
his surrender is asked, but there are no words indicating that
he is to be protected from trial for all other offences. The
absence of any provision indicating an intention to, protect
from prosecution for other offences, in a statute having no'
other object than the protection of extradited offenders, is
sufficient to deprive of all force the suggestion that the act
of 1869,'as a legislative act, gives to the treaty of 1842 the
construction contended for by the accused." There are'perhaps two or three other cases in which the dircuit or district
judges of the United States have followed these decisions rendered by Judge. Benedict.
On the other hand, Judge Hoffman, of the District Court of
California, in the case of United StAs V. TVattg, 8 Sawyer, 370,
decided that the defendant, having been surrendered under
the extradition treaty of 1842 by Great Britain, could not be
tried for other offences than those enumerated in that treaty,
and supported this view with a very learned and able opinion.
Judge Deady, of the District Court of Oregon, in E jxu te
lIRIs, 26 Fed. Rep. 421, 431, February 4, 1886, held, in regard
to the treaty of 1842, that for a government to detain a person
extradited under that treaty for any other charge than the
one for which he had been surrendered, "would be not only an
infraction of the contract between the parties to the treaty,
but also a violation of the supreme law of this land in a matter directly involving his personal rights. A right of person
or property, secured or recognized by treaty, may be set up as
a defence to a prosecution in disregard of either, with the
same force and effect as if such right was secured by an act of
Congress."
But perhaps the most important decisions on this question
are to be found in the highest courts of the states.

ce v. Lagraove, .59 N. Y. 110, has been
The case of "Adrian
doctrine held by Judge Benedict, and
the
supporting
as
cited

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.

427

Opinion of the Court.

undoubtedly the language of the opinion delivered by Chief
Justice Church, for the court, in that case, adopts the reasoning of Judge Benedict's opinion. Considering the high character of that court, it may be proper to make'an observation
or two on that case. First. It seems that while Lagrave was
held for trial in this country under extradition proceedings, by
which he was removed from France under the treaty of 1843
with that nation, being out on bail, he was arrested under a
writ in a iv.i suit for debt, which issued from one of the
courts of the State of New York. He made application .by a
writ of 7awbeas corpms to be released from this arrest, on.the
ground that he was protected from it by the terms of the,
treaty under which he was surrendered, which, in that respect,
are similar to those of the treaty of 1842 with Gieat Britain.
The difference between serving process in a civil action brought
by a private party, whether arrest be an incident to that
process or not, and the indictment and prosecution of a person
similarly situated for a crime not mentioned in the treaty of
extradition under which the defendant was by force brought
to this country, is too obvious to need comment. And while
it is unnecessary to decide now -vhether he could be so served
with process in civil proceedings, it does not follow that he
would be equally liable to arrest, trial, and conviction for.
a crimej and especially, a crime not enumerated in the extradition treaty, and committed before his removal Second.
The case of Adqiance v. La'raloewas decided in the Supreme
Court of the State by an order discharging Lagrave from
arrest under the writ, and the writ was vacated. This judgment was the unanimous opinion of the court, in which sat
three eminent judges of that State, to wit, Daniels, Davis, and
Brady. . In the Court of Appeals this judgment was reversed
by a divided court, Judges Folger and. Grover dissenting.
While this is believed to be the only decision in the highest
court of a state adopting that view of the law, there are three
or four cases decided by appellate courts of other states, holding a directly oppesite doctrine.
The first of these is Con'inrnwealthv. Hawes, 13 Bush, 697.
Hawes was demanded from the DQminion of Canada under

OCTOBER - TERI, '1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the treaty of 1842 on four indictments charging him with as
many acts of forgery, and was delivered up on three of them.
He was brought to trial bn two of these indictments in the"
courts of Kentucky and acquitted, while the other two were
dismissed on motion of the attorney for the commonwealth.
There were, however, other indictments pending against him,
charging him with embezzlement, and on one of these a motion was made to bring him to trial. Upon this motion the
question was raised whether, under the circumstances in regard -to the extradition, he could be tried -for that offence.
Judge Jackson, before whom the case .*as pending in the
Kenton County Criminal Court, decided that he was bound to
take judicial notice of the treaty of 1842 between the United
States and Great Britain, and that the defendant could not be
tried for any offence for which he was not extradited, although
'he was within the power of the court, as the treaty was the
supreme law of the land. By the terms of that treaty he held
that Hawes could be tried for no other offence, because that
treaty provideq only for extradition in certain cases, and under
certain circumstances of proof, and that the right of asylum is
'to be held sacred as to anything for whicl the party was not
andcould not be extradited: He-adds:
!' I d6 not mean to say that he [Hawes] may not hereafter
be'tried; but what I mean to say is, that in the face of the
treaty herein referred to, he is not to be tried until there is a
reasonable time given him to return to the asylum from which
-he wKas takef.','
Th6 case was carried to the Coirt of Appeals of Kentucky,
in which the whole matter Nyas fully discussed, the opinion of
the court, a very able one, being delivered by Chief Justice
Lindsay, in 1878. The substance of the opinion is thus stated
i-d the syllabus:
"1. Extradited criminals cannot be tried for offences not
named in the-treaty, or for offences not named in the warrant
of extradition. A prisoner extradited from the Dominion of
Canada under Art, 10 of the treaty of 1842 between the United
States and. Great Britain, dannot be proceeded against or tried
in this State for any other 6ffences than 'those mentioned in

UNITEI5, STATES v' RAUSOHER.
Opinion of .the C.irt. '.

ahe treaty, and for which he was extradited, without first being afforded an oppprtunity to return to Canada; and, after
being aequitted on trials for th6 offences for which he was extradited, he cannot be lawfully held in custody to answer a
charge for which he could not be put on trial."
"3. The right of one government to demand and receive
from another the custody of an offender who has sought
asylum upon its soil, depends upon the existence of treaty
stipulations between them, and in all cases is derived from,
and is measured and restricted by, the provisions, express or
implied, of the treaty."
Ja 1881 a case involving the same question came before the
Texas Court of Appeals, Blawndford v. State, 10 Tex. Ct. of
App. 627, in which'the same principles were asserted as in
that of Hawes. The case seems to have been very well considered, and the authorities up to that date were fully examined.
In 1883 the same question came before the Supreme Court6f Ohio, in State v. ]Vande pool, 89 Ohio St. 273. Vanderpool
and Jones having been delivered up under the treaty of 1848
by the Dominion of Canada for offences specified in that
treaty, were tried, convicted, and sentenced to the penitentiary
for the crimes for which they were extradited. They were
afterwards indicted for other offences, to which they pleaded
in abatement that by reason, of the facts already stated they
could not be tried for thes6 latter offences until a reasonable
time had elapsed after the expiration of their sentences for the
crimes of which they had been. convicted. The Supreme Court
of Ohio, to which the case came on appeal from the judnent
of the Court 6f Common Pleas, sustained this view, and this
was done upon the same general reasoning, already stated, as
to the construction to be placed upon the Ashburton treaty, of
the obligations. of that treaty as a law of the land; and of tIje
rights conferred upon the party who was arrested and extradited under its provisions.
Upon a review of these decisions of the Federal 'and State
courts, to which may be added the opinions of the distinguished writers which we have cited in the earlier.part of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion, we feel ,authorized to state that the weight of au-,
thority and of sound principle are in favor of the proposition,
that a person who has. been brought within the jurisdiction of
the court by virtue of proceedings under an' extradition treaty,
can only be tried for one of the offences described in that treaty,
and for the offence with which he is charged in the proceedings for his extradition, until a reasonable time and opportunity
have been given him, after his release or trial upon such charge,
to return to the country from whose asylum .he had been forcibly taken under those proceedings.
Two other observations remain to be made. One of these
is, that the operation of this principle of the recognition of the
rights of prisoners under such circumstances by the- courts
before whom they are brought for trial, relieves the relations
between the Executive Department of the United States government and the courts of a state before whom such case may
be pending, of a tension which has more than once become
very delicate and very troublesome. Of course, the interference of the executive branch of the Federal government, when
it may have been called upon by the nation which has delivered up a person to be tried for an offence against the laws of
a state, with the proceedings of a stato court in such case, is
likely to be resented by such court, and yet, if the only mode
of enforcing the obligations of the treaty is through the action
of the respective national governments, it would seem that the
government appealed to ought to have the right to see that
the treaty is faithfully observed, and the rights of parties under it protected. In Great Britain the control of such matters
would undoubtedly be recognized by any court to be in the
Crown, but in this country such a proposition is, to say the
least, not unaccompanied by serious embarrassments. The
principle we have here laid down removes this difficulty, for
under the d6ctrine that the treaty is the supreme law of the
land, and is to be observed by all the courts, state and national,
"anything in the laws of the states to the contrary notwithstanding," if the state court should fail to give due effect to
the rights of the party under the treaty, a remedy is found in
the judicial branch of the .Federal government, which has been

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

fully recognized. This. remedy is by a writ of error from the
Supreme Court of the United States to the state court which:
may have committed such an error. The case being thus removed into that court, the just effect and operation of the.
treaty upon the rights asserted by the prisoner would be there
decided. If the party, however, is under arrest and desires a
more speedy remedy in order to secure his release, a writ of
htabeas crpvs from one of the Federal judges or Federal courts,
issued on the ground that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution or a law br a treaty of the United
States, will bring him before a Federal tribunal, where the
truth of that allegation can be inquired into, and, if it be well
founded, he will be discharged. Ex parte Royal, 117 U. S.
241, 251. State courts also could issue such a writ, and thus
the judicial remedy is complete, when the jurisdiction of the
court is admitted. This is a complete answer to the proposition that' the rights of persons extradited under -the treaty
cannot be enforced by the judicial branch of.the government,
and that they can only appeal to the executive branches of
the treaty governments for redress.
The other observation we have to make regards an argument presented in this particular case; namely, that the prisoner was convicted on the same testimony which was produced before the magistrate who ordered his extradition.
Although it is thus stated in the brief, the record affords no
sufficient evidence of it. "Whatis found on that subject in the
fourth question certified to this court is as follows:
"Was it error on the part of the trial judge to refuse to
direct a verdict of acquittal, after it had been proven that the
accused was extradited under the extradition treaty with
Great ilritain, upon the charge of murder, it also appearing
that in the proceedings preliminary to the.warrant of extradition the same act was invest[gated, and the same witnesses examined, as at the trial? "
It might be a sufficient answer to this argument to say that
this does not prove that the evidence was the. same -upon the
two trials. Although the act charged may have been the
same and the witnesses may have been the same, yet the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

deuce elicited on the last trial may have been very different
from that obtained on the first. Thile the identity of facts
investigated in the twb trials is charged a little more specifically in the first question, we are of opinion that no importance
should be attached to this matter, even if it were found that
the party was convicted of inflicting cruel and unusual punishment on the seaman on the same evidence precisely upon.hich
the-committing magistrate in Great Britain delivered him up
under a charge of murder. It maybe very true that evidence
which satisfied that officer that the prisoner was guilty of the
crime of murder would also establish that he had inflicted
cruel and unusual punishment on the person for whose murder
he was charged; but, as the treaty only justified his delivery
on'the ground that he was proved to be guilty of murder
before the committing magistrate, it does not follow at all
that such magistrate would have delivered him oi a .eharge,
founded upon precisely the same evidence, of inflicting cruel
and unusual punishment, an offence for which the treaty made
no provision, and which was of a very unimportant character;
when compared with that of murder. If the party could be
convicted on an indictment for inflicting cruel and unusual
punishment wher'e the grand- juiry would not have found an
indictment for murder, the treaty could always be evaded by
making a demauid on account of the higher offence defined in
the treaty, and then only seeking a trial and bonvintion for
the minor offence not found in the treaty. We do net think
the circumstance that the same evidence might be sufficient to
convict for the minor offence which was produced before the
committing magistrate -to support the graver charge -justifies
this departure from the principles of- the treaty.
This fourth question may also properly be treated as immaterial, for the question is, should the trial judge have directed
a-verdict of acquittal?, As all the matters set up by the- defendant are in the nature of pleas in abatement, going rather
to the question of trial on that indictment at that time, and
not denying that at some future time, when the defendant
inay have been properly brought within the jurisdiction of
the court, or rightfully found within such jurisdiction,, he may

UNITED STALTES v. RAJSC H-ER.
Concurring Opinion: Gray, J.

-be then tried, it did not involve an issue on the question of
guilty or not guilty on"which the court, if it proceeded to try
that question at all; could direct either an acquittal or a conviction. Under the views we have taken of the case the jurisdiction of the court to try such an offence, if the party himself
wasproperly within its jurisdiction, is not denied, but the facts
relied upon go to show that while the court did have jurisdiction to find the indictmeni, as well as of the questions involved
in such indictment, it did not have jurisdiction of the person atthat time, so as to subject him to trial. The question therefore
is immaterial.
The result of these considerations is, that the first of the
questions certified to us is answered in the negative; the second and third are answered in the affirmative; and it is ordered
to be so certified to the judges of the Circuit Court.
Mm. JusTIoE G AY concurring.
I concur in the decision of the court, upon the single ground,

that by the act of Congress of March 3,, 1869, c. 141,, § 1,
(embodied in § 5275 of the Revised Statutes,) providing measures by which any person, delivered up by a foreign government for the purpose of being tried here for a crine of which
he has been accused, may be secured against lawless violence
"until the final conclusion of his'trial for the crimes or offences
specified in the warrant of extradition, and until his final discharge from custody or imprisonment for or on account of such
crimes, or offences, and for a reasonable time thereafter,." the
political department of the government has clearly manifested
its will, in the form of an express law, (of which any person
prosecuted in any court within the United States has the right
to claim the protection,) that the accused shall be tried only
for the crime specified in the warrant of extradition, and shall
be allowed a reasonable time to depart out of the United States,
before he can be arrested or detained for another offence.
Upon the broader question whether, independently of any
act of Congress, and in the absence of any affirmative restriction in the treaty, a man surrendered for one crime should
VOL. CXLX-28

;OCTOBER TEim, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J.

be tried for another, I,express no opinion, because not satisfied
that that is a question of law, within the cognizance of the
judicial tribanals, as contradistinguished from a question of
international comity and usage, within the domain of statesmansh'ip and diplomacy.
MR.CHIEF JUsTIcE WAxrE

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the decision of this case. A fugitive from justice has no absolute right of asylum in a country
to which he flees, and if he can be got back within the jurisdiction ;f the country whose laws he has violated, he may be
proceeded with precisely the same as if he had not fled, unless
there is something in the laws of the country where he is to
be tried, or in the way in which he was got back, to prevent.
I do not understand this to be denied. All, therefore, depends
in this case on the treaty with Great Britain under which this
extradition was effected, and § 5275 of the Revised Statutes. I
conbede that the treaty is as much a part of the law of the
United States as is a statute; and if there is anything in it
which forbids a trial for any other offence than that for which
the extradition was made, the accused may use it as a defence
to a prosecution on any other charge until a reasonable time
has elapsed after his release from custody on account of the
crime for which he was sent back. But I have been unable to
find any such provision. The treaty requires a delivery up to
justice, on demand, of those accused of certain crimes, but
says nothing about what shall be done with them after the
delivery has been made. It might have provided that they
should not be tried for any other offences than those for which
they were surrendered, but it has not. Consequently, a it
seems to me, the accused has acquired no new rights under the
treaty. -Hefled from the justice of the country whose laws he
violated, and has beer. got back. The treaty under which he
was surrendered has granted him no immunity, and therefore
it has not provided him with any new defence. This seems to
have been the view taken by the English government during
the time of the controversy growing out of the demand made

UNITED STATES v. RAUSCHER.

435

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J.

for the extradition of Winslow; for, in the debate in the
House of Lords, the, Lord Chancellor (Cairns), while supporting the English view of the matter, and referring to the cases
which had been cited against it, said: "In that class of cases
. the prisoners, who had been surrendered on onq
charge, and who were being tried upon another, themselves
attempted to raise the defence that they could not be tried for
an offence different from that for which they had been surrendered. Such cases certainly have no application whatever to
the present question, because nothing can be more clear than
that a prisoner himself has no right to raise such a defence.
Even in France, where . . . the law and practice of extradition goes far beyond that which prevails in this country and
in the United States, a prisoner is not permitted to set up such
a defence, for the clear reason that he is within the jurisdiction
of the court, which has the authority to try him for the
offence of which he is charged, and that whether he ought to
be tried for an offence other than that for which he has been
surrendered is a matter of diplomacy between the two countries, and not a question between the prisoner and the court
before which *he is being tried." "Foreign Relations of the
United States, 1876, 291.
This is, I think, the true rule, and it is in full accord with the
principles applied by this court in The .iehmond, 9 Cranch,
102, where it was insisted upon by way of defence that a vessel proceededagainst for a violation of the non-intercourse act
had been seized within the territorial jurisdiction of Spain. As
to this, Chief Justice Marshall said, in delivering the opiniori
of the court: "The seizure of an American vessel within the
territorial jurisdiction of a foreign power is certainly an
offence against that power, which must be adjusted between
the two governments. This court can take no cognizance of
it; and the majority of the court is of opinion that the law
does not connect that trespass, if it be one, with the subsequenit seizure by the civil authority, under the process of the
District.Court, so as to annul the proceedings of that couP6
against the v6ssel." If either country should use its privileges
under the treaty to obtain a surrender of a fugitive on the

