SHARP v. RIESSNERb.
Opinion of the Court.

SHARP v. RnESSNER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 16, 186.-

Decided January 10, 1887.

The first claim of letters-patent No. 177,334, granted to Abner B. Hutchins,
May 16th, 1876, for an improvement in hydro-carbon stoves, namely, "1.
The water-vessel A, with its perforated top-pIate A t and hot-air ' cylinder' C, hinged at c to plate A', and top perforated plate L, all arringed
and connected together substantially as and for the purpose set forth,"
the perforated top-plate A' being describdd in the specification as a plate
in which arranged around a central opening is a series of perforations
"through which atmospheric air passes down into the top part of the
vessel A, and thence up through the hot-air cylinder and its chimneys,"
is not infringed by a stove in which, instead of the perforated top-plate
A', there are three equidistant struts on which the hot-air cylinder
rests, with an open space between every wo of the struts, the struts
not performing the office so described as that performed by the perforated top-plate At.

This wag a bill in equity for the infringement of letterspatent. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xl'. Artlour v. Briesern for appellant.
Jfr. B. F. lee for appellees.
Mu. JUSTICE BLATCH-FORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Thih is a suit in equity brought for the alleged infringement of letters-patent No. 177,334, granted to Abner B.
Hutchins, Mlay 16th, 1876, for an improvement in hydro-carbon stoves. The specification and drawings are as follows:
"The- object of this invention is to produce a stove which
can safely and easily be heated by the combustion of a hydrocarbon or oil in a similar manner to that in common use in
ilimuninating lamps.
"The invention consists of the following devices: The vessel

or chamber containing the oil or hydro-carbon is submerged

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion 'of the Court.

in water, so as to always keep the said oil-vessel or chamber
cool, and thereby free from explosive or other accident. The
water-vessel is covered with a perforated metal plate, which
forms the base of the hot-air cylinder, on the top of which
the culinary or other vessels to be heated are placed. Vertical tubes or flues are placed in the hot-air cylinder in such
positions as to act as chimneys for the burners. Mica win-

dows are placed in the sides of these flues or chimneys in such
positions as to enable the operator to observe the flame of the
burner and to regulate the same as circumstances may require.
"The invention will be readily understood by reference to
the accompanying drawings, of which Figure 1 is partly an
elevation and partly a vertical section of the improved stove.
Fig. 2 is partly a plan and partly a section of the same. In
this view the half of the top-plate only is removed, so as to
disclose the construction of the hot-air cylinder and the flues
or chimneys. Fig. 3 is a setional plan of th4 stove, taken
just below the top-plate of the water-chamber, and showing
a part of the top-plate of the oil-vessel or reservoir broken
out.
" The base of the stove consists of a vessel, A, resting, for

SHARP vo. RIESSNER.
Opinion of the Court.

convenience, op short legs a. This vessel is intended to contain water, and has a top plate, A', which is preferably made
of cast metal, and strong enough to support all the parts of
the stove which are above it. This plate A' is annular in
form if the stove is of general cylindrical construction (which
is preferable to other forms), the central opening in the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

plate being nearly equal in area to the sectional area of the
hot-air cylinder C, which rests upon it. Concentrically
arranged around this central opening is a series of perforations, a, through which atmospheric air passes down into the
top part of the vessel A, and thence up through the hot-air
cylinder and its chimneys.
"The reservoir or vessel B, in which the oil or hydro-carbon
is put for use in this stove, is placed within the vessel A, and
the bottom of the vessel A may likewise constitute the support for the bottom of the vessel B, and there will be an
intervening chamber, B', between the sides of the vessel B
and its inclosing vessel A, and the sides of the vessel A will
extend up one or two inches (more or less) above the top of
the vessel B. While in use the annular chamber B' will be
filled with water, and water will also cover the top of the
vessel B, which said vessel and its contained fluid will thereby
be always kept at a low temperature, and accident from the
ignition or ex\plosion of the oil or hydro-carbon will thus be
rendered impossible by this water covering. A tube, b, extends from the vessel B up through one of the perforations or
apertures a', and serves as a means of filling the vessel B. A
suitable screw-cap closes the top end of this tube. A pipe or
valve, a 2, leads from the chamber D' to the outside of A, for
the purpose of drawing off the water when it becomes heated,
or when the occasion requires it. -Watermay easily be poured
into the vessel A through the apertures a1.
"The wick-tubes D are attached to the top of the vessel B,
and the wick used to conduct the oil from B to the flame is
operated in the usual manner of illuminating-lamps. The
rollers for moving the wicks up and dowi. are inclosed in
casings or housings E, and are operated by the thumb-wheels
F, the stems f of which pass through tubes E', that are at-tached tightly to the ends of the housings E, and pass through
the side of the vessel A. Care must be taken to have all of
the parts of D E E' that lie within the water-way of A 'perfectly water-tight, so as to prevent the leakage of the water
either into the vessel B or outside of A.
"The hot-air cylinder C is preferably built of sheet metal,

SHARP v. RIESSNER.
Opinion of the Court.

and is hinged to its base-plate Al by the hinge c at the back
side of the stove, so as to permit the top parts of the stove to
be tipped back out of the way of trimming the wicks, or for
other purposes. A finely-perforated diaphragm, G, covers the
central opening of the base-plate A' below the hot-air cylinder, for the purpose of properly controlling the air-currents
that pass up from the chamber of A into the hot-air cylinder.
A diaphragm, H, within the hot-air cylinder C, and near its
base, is fixed, by riveting or otherwise, to the sides of the said
cylinder. Portions of this diaphragm are formed into conical
flame-caps, h4, for controlling and confining the flame within
its proper limits in a manner similar to that in common use in
illuminating-lamps.
"Above the diaphragms H3 tubes or chimneys I confine the
hot gases and products of combustion from the flames of the
burners within proper limits for the efficient action of the
burners. These tubes or chimneys I extend from the diaphragm H to the top of the hot-air cylinder, and are preferably made of sheet metal. The shell of the hot-air cylinder
C forms one side of each of these chimneys; and in this side,
which is common to both the -cylinder and the chimney, a
small mica window, K, is placed, so as to enable the operator,
from without, to see and regulate the flame of the burners by
turning the thumb-wheel F, as required. For simplicity of
construction I cut apertures in the side of the hot-air cylinder,
suitable for the windows K, and through these apertures portions of the metal of the chimney-plates are extended, which
said portions are bent over in the form of grooves k, as'in
Figs. 1 and 2, for the reception of the mica plates that are to
form the windows.
"The top of the hot-air cylinder is covered with a cast-metal
plate, L, that serves as a rest for whatever vessel is to be
heated on this stove. The plate L is perforated with apertures over the chimneys, and also over the hot-wells of the
cylinder 0, as well as in the portions lying outside of the
cylinder, thus permitting all of the heat generated to reach
the vessel on top of the plate L, and thereby be utilized.
The intense heat imparted to the plates of the chimneys I and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

plate L, alad reflected thence back upon the hot gases passing
through and about these parts, will be quite sufficient to consume all of the smoke, and there will, in consequence, be no
emission of unpleasant odors from imperfect combustion.
The top surface of the plate L is provided with ridges 1, that
keep the vessels placed thereon from obstructing the openings
in the said plate."
The claims are these:
"1. The water-vessel A, with its perforated top plate A'
and hot-air cylinder C, hinged at c to plate A', and top perforated plate L, all arranged and connected together substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"2. The chimneys I, having one of their sides formed by the
hot-air cylinder C, to which they are connected by the grooveclips k, that also receive the mica windows K, as and for the
purpose set forth."
•It
is contended that the defendants infringe the first claim.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, 15 Fed. fRep. 919, holding that there was no infringement. The plaintiff has appealed.
One of the elements in the first claim is the "perforated
top-plate A'," being the top-plate to the water-vessel A. It is
described as annular in form, if the stove is cylindrical, with
a central opening. The specification then says: "Concentrically arranged around this central opening is a series of perforations, a', through which atmospheric air passes down into
the top part of the vessel A, and thence up through the hotair cylinder and its chimneys." in the defendants' stove the
hot-air cjrlinder rests on three equidistant struts, which extend
from the base of the cylinder to the wall of the water-chamb6r, and thus the weight of the cylinder and of the utensils
upon it is thrown against such wall instead of on the bottom
of the water-chamber. Of course, there is an open space between every two of the struts, through which spaces air
passes freely. The Circuit Court held that the arrangement
of the three truts was not the plaintiff's peiforated top-plate
A', because the struts did not perform the office which required the plate with perforations, that office being, as de-

