MACE v. MERRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

they have failed to use such means, after having knowledge
of the plaintiff's exposed position and failure to. notice the
approach of the engine, and that in consequence of 'such failure, the' accident was caused, then the fact that the plaintiff
failed to notice the approach of the engine, would not defeat
his right of recovery."
X&. . ..Hubbard and .Xr. Q0iailes A. Clark for plaintiff
in error.
fl". Willian A. Foster for defendant in error.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE announced

that the judgment of

the court below was

Aflirmed by a divided court.

MACE v. MERRILL.
ERROR TO THE SUPRENIE COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted December 6,1886.-Decided January 10, 1987.

As it appears that the right of the state of California to have the lands
which are in dispute in this action listed is admitted, it is held that this
court is without jurisdiction over the judgment of the Supreme Court of,
California upon the adverse claims of the parties. Hasti'ngs v. Jackson,
112 U. S. 233, affirmed.

This was an action to try the title to a tract of land listed to
California under § 8 of the act of September 24, 1841. The
facts which were claimed to make a Federal question are
stated in the opinion of the court.
iTf,. A. T. Britton, M",. A. B. Brozone, and iXr. Walter H.
Smith for plaintiff in error.
.Xr.Edward B. Nei-rill for defendant in errbr.
YM.

CO EF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit begun by Mace, the plaintiff in error, against
'Merrill, the defendant in error, in the District Court of Los

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Angeles County, California, pursuant to a reference by the
surveyor-general of the state, under § 3314 of the Political
Code of that state, which is as follows

"When a contest arises concerning the approval of a survey
or location before the surveyor-general, or concerning a ceilifi,cate of-purchase or other evidence of title before the register,
the "officer before whom the contest is made may, when 4he
question involved is as to the survey, or one purely of fact, or
whether the land applied for is a part of -the swamp or overflov ed lands of the state, or whether it is included within a
confirmed grant, the lines of which have been run by authoiity
of law, Proceed to hear and determine the same; but when, in
the judgment of the officer, a question of law is involved, or
-when either party demands a trial in the courts of the state,
he must make an order referring the contest to the District
C9urt of the county in which the land is situated, and must
. enter such order in a record book in his office."
The record shows that the S. E. , Sec. 21, T. 2 S., IR. 13 W.,
S. B. M, was listed to the state of California by the Secretary,
of the Interior on the 21st of Mlarch, 1876, as part of the
500,000 acres of land selected by the state under § 8 of the
act of Congress approved September 24, 1841, c. 16, 5 Stat.
455, for the purpose of internal improvements. On the 17th of
November, 1874, Alace applied to the surveyor-general of the
state for the purchase of this tract. His application was on
file when the land was listed. Merrill, the defendant in error,
also claimed the saute tract from the surveyor-general. His
claim was based on an alleged location of the tract under the
laws of California, and a payment therefor to the state in
school warrants on the 23d of June, 1857. Such being the
case, he insisted that the title of the state inured to his benefit under the provisions of §§ 1 and,3 of the act of July 23,
1866, c. 219, 14 Stat. 218, "to quiet land titles -in California.'
Mace set up no title in himself under any statute or authority
of the United States. His application was to the state, and
he claimed under state authority only. It is true that if the
state had the right to sell he might have the right to buy,.but
that right to buy would come, not from the United States, but

MACE v. MERRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

from the state. The court below decided that the state could
not sell, because it had already sold to Merrill, and that all the
title it had was held in trust for him. Mace, in his petition,
did, indeed, aver that-he entered into the possession of the
land in 1869, with the, intention of acquiring title from the
United States by-preemption, and that, in 1873, he filed in
the proper office his declaratory statement and offered the
necessary proof ; but his claim in this case is nbt based on any
such right, the prayer of his petition-being only that it may be
adjudged that he "has the better right tor purchase;" If his
rights under the preemption laws -are superior to the title of
Merrill under the state's selection, it may perhaps be made a
subject of litigation in another suit, where his title can be set
up against that of Merrill; but in this suit, which- is only to
establish his right to buy from the state, no such questions can
arise. His right to buy has no connection whatever with his
claim of pre~mption; for, as he says in his petition, "he made
application to the surveyor-general 6f the state of California
under the provisions of Title eight of the Political Code of the
which said application was in all
state, to purchase, .
respects made in conformity ivith the requirements of the code
aforesaid, and which said application has been ever since the
date last aforesaid, and now is, on file in the office of the surveyor-general aforesaid;" and "the plaintiff is the owner of a
school land-warrant, and under which he claims the benefit of
the location of said quarter section." Had this suit been instituted by Mace to establish a right superior to that of the state,
growing out of his preemption claim, and to charge the state
as his trustee on that account, the case would have been different; for then he would have set up a right under the prefmption laws of the United States, and, with a decision against
him, he might be in a condition to hale a review by this court.
Instead of that, however, he has contented himself with seeking to buy from the state that which, it has been decided, the
state had no right to sell.
It is possible, also, that, by the practice in California, Mace
mighlt have contested the title of the state before the surveyorgeneral, and had the case referred to the District Court for the

