92

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondent.

258 U. S.

the error, even though not amounting to "error apparent," within the meaning of Lord Bacon's first ordinance, afforded ample ground for setting matters right
upon a rehearing before final decree, as was in effect done
by the District Court. No sufficient ground is shown for
the reversal of its latest decree.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,
and that of the District Court affirmed; and the
cause remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
REED, ADMINISTRATRIX OF REED, v. DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, UNITED
STATES RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, OPERATING PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILROAD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 78.

Argued January 13, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

In actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the doctrine
of assumption of risk has no application when the negligence of a
fellow servant which the injured party could not have foreseen
is the sole, direct and immediate cause of the injury. P. 95.
267 Pa. St. 86, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, reversing a judgment for the plaintiff, the
present petitioner, in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and directing entry of judgment for
the respondent, non obstante veredicto.

M1r. John J. McDevitt, Jr., with whom Mr. FrederickS.
Tyler was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Win. Clarke Mason for respondent.
The case is determined by Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, and Boldt v. Pennsulvania R. R.

REED v. DIRECTOR GENERAL.
92.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 245 U. S. 441. These are not in conflict with Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ward, 252 U. S. 18, where
the movement- of the train on which the brakeman was
riding involved no danger of collision with a known obstacle upon the track, and no hazard would have resulted
from his position if the train had been permitted to continue on its way-according to' the usual method of operation.
In the present case, there was within the vision of Reed
a fixed obstacle on the track, bound to cause ddrailment
unless co~peration between him and the engineer could
stop the car. Its presence was known to him and was one
of the hazards of "a dangerous yard movement" which
he assumed. The case is like Boldt v. PennsylvaniaR. R.
Co., supra. See also Baughdm v. New York, Philadelphia
& Norfolk R. R. Co., 241 U. S. 237; Southern Pacific Co.
v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415; Pattonv. Texas &-Pacific Ry.
Co., 179 U. S. 658, 663.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The petitioner brought an action in the Court of Common Pleas at Philadelphia, alleged that her husband was
negligently killed while employed in interstate commerce
by the Philadelphia & Reading Railroad and demanded
damages. She claimed under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. Verdict and judgment having been entered
for her, an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the
State, and reversal sought upon several grounds. That
court considered only one question-Did decedent's death
result from a risk which he assumed as the result of his
employment? And, concluding that he had assumed such
risk, it reversed the judgment of -the trial court and
entered one for respondent non obstante veredicto. 267
Pa. St. 86. As found and stated by the Supreme Court
the facts are these:

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U.S.

"Decedent was a member of a crew which had brought
a train from Philadelphia to South Bethlehem. Some of
the cars contained goods shipped in interstate commerce.
When all the cars were released at their appropriate
places, the engine went back to get the caboose for the
purpose of taking it to the point where it was to stay until
wanted for further traffic, and then itself go to the roundhouse where it was to remain until again needed. This
movement was through defendant's yard, where there
were a number of tracks upon which cars and locomotives
were being shifted constantly. Through the yard ran also
the main passenger tracks of defendant, and, at the points
where other tracks crossed over or connected therewith,
derailing devices had been wisely installed for the purpose
of preventing locomotives and cars using the other tracks
from running on to or over the passenger tracks, at a time
when passenger trains were standing or traveling thereon,
and thereby possibly causing collision and serious loss of
life.
"The engine and caboose which had reached South
Bethlehem were moving over a track which had one of
those derailing devices where it connected with the passenger tracks. The caboose being in front of the locomotive, the engineer could not see the device when operating
the engine from his cab and hence decedent was directed
to and did locate himself on the front of the caboose, with
a duty to signal the engineer in time for him to safely stop
if the derailing device was set against further passage. It
was so set on this occasion, but either through the negligence of decedent himself, or of the engineer in failing to
notice or heed the signalling of decedent, the locomotive
did not stop in time, the caboose was derailed and decedent was crushed to death between it and cars on an adjoining track. "
Accepting the view that the engineer's negligence was
the proximate cause of the fatal injury, the court below

REED v. DIRECTOR GENERAL.
92.

Opinion of the Court.

held the decedent had assumed the risk of such negligence
and the master was not liable, citing among other cases
SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492. This we
think was error.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Horton-often followedruled that the Federal Employers' Liability Act did not
wholly abolish the defense of assumption of risk as recognized and applied at common law. But the opinion distinctly states that the first section "has the effect of
abolishing in this class of cases the common law rule that
exempted the employer from responsibility for the negligence of a fellow employ6 of the plaintiff." The Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223-U. S. 1, 49, declared that
"the rule that the negligence of one employ6 resulting in
injury to another was not to be attributed to their common employer, is displaced by a rule imposing upon the
employer responsibility for such an injury, as was done at
common law when the injured person'was not an employ6." And in Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Ward, 252 U. S. 18, we said: "The Federal Employers'
Liability Act places a co-employee's negligence, when it is
the ground of the action, in the same relation as that of
the employer upon the matter of assumption of risk. "
See New York Central& Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Carr,
238 U. S. 260; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. DeAtley, 241
U. S. 310, 313.
In actions under the Federal Act the doctrine of as-.
sumption of risk certainly has no application when the
negligence of a fellow servant which the injured party
could not have foreseen or expected is the sole, direct and
immediate cause of the injury. To hold otherwise would
conflict with the declaration of Congress that every common carrier by railroad while engaging in interstate commerce shall be liable to the personal representative of
any employee killed while employed therein when death
results from the negligence of any of the officers, ageiit ol
employees of such carriers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 U. S.

For the reasons indicated, the judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
NEW BEDFORD DRY DOCK COMPANY v.
PURDY, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMER "JACKO-LANTERN."
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 131.

Argued January 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

A contract for the wood-work involved in converting a car-float into
an amusement steamer 4y removing the car tracks, relaying the
decks as dancing floors and adding a superstructure, steering apparatus, and steam propulsion plant, is a maritime contract for
repairs as opposed to original construction, within the Maritime
Lien Act of June 23, 1910, and Within the admiralty jurisdiction
of the District Court. P. 99.
266 Fed. 562, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel to recover damages and enforce a lien for repairs.
Mr.George R. Farnum, with whom Mr. Lee M. Friedman was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. George L. Dillaway for appellee.
The identity of the car-float was completely lost by the
conversion into an amusement steamer. Mere identity
of hull is not sufficient to preserve the identity of the vessel. McMaster v. One Dredge, 95 Fed. 832; The Dredge
A, 217 Fed. 617, 629, 630; Thames Towbodt Co. v.
The " FrancisMcDonald," 254 U. S. 242.
The work done was not to repair, reconstruct, or furnish
anything to the steamer "Jack-O-Lantern," the vessel
which the libelant has libeled in this case. Such a craft

