OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
6tatement of the Case.

258 U.S.

vided that no claim shall be made or allowed for any
damages which may arise out of any delay caused by the
United States. Suspension by the Government is one
of several possible causes of delay-and not an uncommon
one.
Moreover, when the contractor was first directed to
suspend work, he replied: "We are not objecting to this,
but we desire to call the department's 'attention to the
matter in order that we may be entitled to extra time
should we be unable to complete the work within the
time named in our contract." So far as appears no protest was ever made against the prolonged suspension;
nor was there any claim made of a right to damages arising therefrom until it was asserted in this suit.
Affirmed.
KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY v.
SALM ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 130.

Argued January 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. A bridge owned by a bridge company and used for railroad purposes is assessable in Illinois as real estate by the assessor of the

county inwhich it lies and not by the State Board of Equalization
as a railroad. P. 123.
2. A bill in the District Court to enjoin enforcement of a state tax
on real property, as based on a discriminatory overvaluation,
which fails to show that the plaintiff availed himself of presumably
adequate legal remedies afforded by the state law, or, the amount
being the only matter in dispute, that he paid or tendered the
amount confesedly due, and which does not offer to pay such
amount as the court may find to be equitably due, should be dismissed for want of equity. P. 124.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court dismissing

the bill, for want of equity, in a suit brought by -the ap-

KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. v. SALM.
122.

Opifiion of the Court.

pellant to restrain the appellees, county officials, fron collecting a tax on the appellant's bridge, alleged to discriminate, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. F. T. Hughes for appellant.
Mr. Lee Siebenborn and Mr. Clifton J. O'Hara, with
whom Mr. Earl W. Wood was on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Company, an Illinois
corporation, owns a bridge across the Mississippi River.
That part of it which lies within the State of Illinois was
assessed by the county assessors for purposes of taxation
as real estate and was valued at $100,000.. To prevent
collection of the tax the company brought, in the federal
court for Southern Illinois, this suit for an injunction
against the county treasurer and other state officials. It
is claimed that the tax is void; first, because the bridge is
a railroad and as such is assessable only by the State
Board of Equalization; secondly, because the property
was deliberately assessed at one hundred and fifty per
cent. of its actual value, whereas the property of other
corporations and individuals was assessed at only forty
per cent. of its value; and that, thus, the cqompany is
deprived of property without due process of law and is
denied equal protection of the laws in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. A motion to dismiss was sustained by the District Court on the ground that the complainant has a plain, adequate arid complete remedy at
law. The case comes here on appeal under 238 of the
Judicial Code be-ause of the constitutional question
raised. That such property is assessable by the county
officials as real estate and not by the State Board of
Equalization as a railroad was settled by People v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co., 287 Ill. 246; 295 Ill.
176, 181.' Whether the bill sets forth a case for equitable
relief is the only question requiring consideration.
Since the appellant asserted a claim arising under the
Federal Constitution, the District Court had jurisdiction
although there was no diversity of citizenship. Discrimination in taxation effected by systematic inequality of
assessment may violate the Fourteenth Amendment.
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
499, 502. But the bill failed to show that plaintiff was
being deprived of property without due process of law or
was being denied equal protection of the laws or that
there was any danger that it would be. Compare Wells,
Fargo & Co. v. Nevada, 248 U. S. 165, 168. The law of
Illinois affords ample opportunity to question the amount
and the. validity of an assessment both before administrative tribunals and in its courts.
The provisions relating to the assessment and taxation
of real estate apply to the assessment and taxation of
bridge structures like that of the appellant. Hurd's Revised Statutes of Illinois, 1919, c. 120, § 354. Every such
assessment made by the county assessors is subject to revision by them. §§ 319, 320. Moreover, upon complaint
in writing that an assessment is incorrect, a board of review is required to give a hearing, and to correct the
assessment "as shall appear to be just." § 329; Standard
Oil Co. v. Magee, 191 Ill. 84. Payment of taxes as finally
assessed and extended against real estate is enforced, in
the first instance, not by distraint or levy, but by legal
proceedings. §§ 185-193. An application is made by the
collector to the county court for judgment against the
property. Compare Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v.
People, 145 Ill. 596; 161 Ill. 514; 167 Ill. 15; 176 Ill. 267.
"That so much of the bridge as lies within the State of Illinois is
taxable there, although used in interstate commerce, was held in
Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626.

KEOKUK BRIDGE CO. v. SALM.
122.

Opinion of the Court.

The proceeding in the county court is a civil suit for the
collection of a debt. People v. St. Louis Merchants
Bridge Co., 282 Ill. 408. The owner may appear and
defend on any legal ground; among others, that the
assessment was deliberately or fraudulently discriminatory and that, hence, the tax is void. People v. Keokuk
& Hamilton Bridge Co., 287 Ill. 246; 295 Ill. 176. From
the judgment of the county court an appeal may be taken
to the Supreme Court of the State upon giving a bond
to pay the amount of the assessment and costs; and the
appeal will operate as a supersedeas if the appellant deposits with the county collector an amount of money
equal to the amount of the judgment and costs. If upon
final hearing judgment for sale of the lands for taxes is
refused, the deposit is returned by the collector to the
appellant. § 192. Moreover, where it is claimed that a
tax is void because of overvaluation which is fraudulently
discriminatory, the courts of the State will grant relief
in equity, if the plaintiff has sought correction from the
board of review and failed to secure redress. Sanitary
District v. Young, 285 Ill. 351, 367. Here the alleged
invalidity consists wholly in discriminatory overvaluation; and, so far as appears, appellant did not even apply
to the board of review to correct the assessment. There
is thus no basis for the contention that resort to a suit
such as this was necessary to prevent, either a sale for an
illegal tax creating a cloud upon title, or multiplicity of
suits to recover back the tax, or other irreparable injury.
See Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S.
481; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 567, 587; Farncomb v.
Denver, 252 U. S. 7.
The bill fails, also for another reason, to state a case
entitling plaintiff to relief. Before the suit was begun it
had been decided that the taxing statute was valid, that
the property was subject to taxation, that it was assessable
as real estate, and that the assessment should be made, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

was done, .by the county assessor and not by the State
Board of Equalization. The amount of the tax payable
was, therefore, the only matter in controversy. Under
such circumstances a plaintiff seeking an injunction must
aver payment or tender of the amount of taxes confessedly due, or at least offer to pay such amount as the
court may find to be justly and equitably due. People's
National Bank v. M1'arye, 191 U. S. 272; Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, 38. The bill contains no such allegation.
Decree affirmed.
FAIRCHILD v. HUGHES, AS SECRETARY OF
STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 148.

Argued January 23, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. The general right of a citizen to have the government administered
according to law and the public moneys not wasted does not en-

title him to institute in the federal courts a suit to secure by indirection a determination whether a statute, if passed, or a constitutional amendment about to be adopted, will be valid. P. 129.
2. Though in form a suit in equity, this is not a case within Art. III,
§ 2, of the Constitution. P. 129.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the court below affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which dismissed a bill by which the appellant sought to
have the Nineteenth Amendment declared unconstitutional and to enjoin the Secretary of State from proclaiming its ratification and the Attorney General from taking
steps to enforce it.
APPEAL

Mr. William L. Marbury and Mr. Thomas F. Cadwalader, with whom. Mr. Everett P. Wheeler and Mr.
Waldo G. Morse were on the briefs, for appellant.

