OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

the place of Wardell in so far as the action was against
Wardell in his official capacity, and thereby appeared in
the action as such defendant.
It will be observed that there was no resistance to the
motion of substitution of Flynn nor exception by him,
and that he almost immediately appeared in the action in
compliance with the order of the court. The subsequent
proceedings were directed as much against him as against
Wardell, the bond upon the writ of error running to both.
However, this court decided in Smietanka v. Indiana
Steel Co., 257 U. S. 1, that a suit may not be brought
against a Collector of Internal Revenue for the recovery of
a tax, in the collection and disbursement of which such
offie-r had no agency. We think the bringing of Flynn
into the case was error. Therefore, upon the return of
the case to the District Court, he shall be permitted to
set up the defense of non-liability, if he be so advised, and,
if he set up the defense, it shall be ruled as sufficient for
the reasons we have given.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
LEVY ET AL. v. WARDELL, UNITED STATES COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
FIRST DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT Ol CALIFORNIA.
No. 303. Argued April 18, 1922.-Decided May 1, 1922.
Decided upon the authority of Shwab v. D6yle, ante. 529, and Union
Trust Co. v. Wardell, ante, 537.

Reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Cou t sustaining a
demurrer -and dismissing the complaint in an action to
recover a sum collected, as an estate tax.

LEVY v. WARDELL.
542.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edward F. Treadwell for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Jr., and Mr. Allen S. Hubbard,
by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The case was determined in the court below upon demurrer to the complaint. The complainant alleged that
on the 19th day of December, 1902, and for sometime
prior thereto, Henriette Levy was the owner of 22,014
shares of the capital stock of the Levy Estate Company, a
corporation. On that date she conveyed to the plaintiffs
Harriet L. Levy, Pauline Jacobs and Adeline Salinger,
each 5,000 shares of that stock. On the, 14th day of January, 1903, she conveyed to these plaintiffs 2,660 shares
each.
On the 17th day of January, 1907, she and the plaintiffs entered into an agreement, which recited errors made
in the issue of the stock, and agreed that the number of
shares to which each was entitled was as follows: To Henriette Levy 10 shares, to Harriet L. Levy 7,328 shares, to
Pauline Jacobs 7,338 shares, to Adeline Salinger 7,337
shares and to Ruth Salinger 1 share.
On the same date the agreement was carried out by
the board of directors of the company, and on that date
Henriette Levy conveyed her 10 shares to Harriet L. Levy.
The transfers of the stock to plaintiffs were complete
and there were no agreements or stipulations by which
Henriette Levy would be entitled to a return of the stock
except that the plaintiffs promised and agreed to pay to
her the dividends accruing thereon during her lifetime,

5,4

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

she, however, retaining no testamentary disposition or
any legal right whatsoever over the stock or any of it, or
any right of revocation.
Henriette Levy at the time of the transfers was in good
health and made them to get rid of the care and worry
of business and *to vest in plaintiffs definite and irrevocable present rights of ownership in the stock, and the
transfers were not in contemplation of, or intended to
take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after her
death.
She died on the 15th day of December, 1916, being at
that time, and at the time of the transfers, a resident of
Alameda County, California. Plaintiffs are her surviving
children and were at such time, and are now, residents of
the State.
She left no property or estate or assets whatever, and
c6nsequently, there was no estate to administer, nor any
estate upon which any tax could be levied. Notwithstanding the facts, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
of the United States, assuming to act under the provisions
of the Act of September 8, 1916, attempted to levy and
assess a tax in the sum of $12,460.84, and demanded and
threatened to enforce payment of the same. In consequence thereof the plaintiffs paid the tax. Subsequently
they demanded a refund of the tax which demand was
refused.
At the time of the transfers there was no law of the
State of California imposing any transfer or inheritance
tax, nor was there a law of the United States to that
effect, and all of the transfers were intended o take effect
in possession and enjoyment upon their date The act of
Congress, therefore, should not be construec to be retroactive, and; if so construed, was in violation of the Constitution of the United States in that it would take the
property of plaintiffs without due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment, and would not be, besides,

LEVY v. WARDELL.
542.

Opinion of the Court.

a transfer tax or an indirect tax but would be a direct tax
thereon in violation of Article I, ยง 9, subdivision 4 of the
Constitution of the United States, because not laid in
proper relation to census or enumeration as therein provided.
Judgment was prayed for the sum of $12,460.84 with
interest from the 26th day of December, 1917.
Wardell filed a demurrer to the complaint which was
sustained, and the action dismissed. To that judgment
this writ of error is directed. For the reasons stated in
Shwab v. Doyle, ante, 529, we think the judgment was
erroneous.
There was a proceeding in the case to which we must
give attention. The judgment of dismissal was entered
January 20, 1921. On February 14, 1921, an order of the
court was made and entered which recited the resignation
of Wardell as Collector and the appointment of John L.
Flynn as Collector, and as doubts existed as to whether
the case was proper for the substitution of Flynn as successor of Wardell, it was ordered that so far as the action
was against- Wardell in his official capacity, the same
might be maintained against Flynn, and that so far as it
was against Wardell personally, it might be continued
against him personally without further pleadings or
process.
On February 15, 1921, Flynn entered his appearance
which, after reciting the fact of his substitution as defendant in place of Wardell, in so far as the action was
against Wardell in his official capacity, declared that he,
Flynn, appeared in the "action as such defendait."
It will be observed that there was no resistance by
Flynn to his substitution and the subsequent proceedings
were directed as much against him as against Wardell, the
bond upon the writ of error running to both. As we have
said, however, in Union Trust Co. v. Wardell, ante, 537,
this court decided in Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., 257

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

25S U. S.

U. S. 1, that an action could not be maintained against
a Collector of Internal Revenue for the recovery of a tax
in the collection and disbursement of which he had no
agency.
This was Flynn's situation and bringing him into the
case was error. Therefore, upon return of the case to the
District Court he shall be permitted to set up the defense
of non-liability, if so advised, and, if he set up the defense, it shall be ruled as sufficient for the reasons we
have given.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

KNOX, SURVIVING EXECUTOR OF KISSAM, ET
AL. v. McELLIGOTT, LATE COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE THIRD DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 602. Argued April 18, 1922.-Decided May 1, 1922.
Decided upon the authority of Shwab v. Doyle, ante, 529.
275 Fed. 545, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a judgment of the District Court for the plaintiff, Knox, in an action to recover a sum collected as an
estate tax.
Mr. Stark B. Ferriss for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistan, to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor Gen. al Beck and Mr.
Richard S. Holmes were on :the brief, for defendant in
error.

