250

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

clearly approved in the Block Case, supra, the court saying: "While the act is in force there is little to decide
except whether the rent allowed is reasonable, and upon
that question the courts are given the last word." The
standard of the statute is as definite as the "just compensation" standard adopted in the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution and therefore ought to be sufficiently definite
to satisfy the Constitution. United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, dealing with definitions of
crime, is not applicable.
Several other contentions are pressed upon the attention of the court, chiefly with respect to the modifications
of .the remedial statues, but such as were not specifically
dealt with in the Marcus Brown and Block Cases, impress us as quite unimportant. Given a constitutional
substantive statute, enacted to give effect to a constitutional purpose, the States have a wide discretion as to
the remedies which may be deemed necessary to achieve
such a result and it is very clear that that discretion
has not been exceeded in this instance by the State of
New York.
It results that the judgments of the state court must be
affirnied.
Affirmed.
Dissenting: MR.'JUSTICE MCKENNA, IR. JUSTICE VAN
DEVANTER and AIR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

UNITED STATES v. BALINT ET AL.
.ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 480. Argued March 7, 1922-Decided March 27, 1922.
1. Whether scienter is a necessary element of a statutory crime,
though not expressed in the stntute, is a question of legislative intent to be answered b .a construction of the statute. P. 251.

UNITED STATES v. BALINT.
250.

Opinion of the Court.

2. Punishment for an illegal act done by one in ignorance of the
facts making it illegal, is not contrary to due process of law.
P. 252.
3. To constitute the offense of selling drugs contrary to ยง 2 of the
Anti-Narcotic Act, it is not necessary that the seller be aware of
their character. P. 253.
Reversed.

to an order sustaining a demurrer to and quashing an indictment.
ERROR

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Solicitor Gen.eral Beck was on the brief, for the United States.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court under the
Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat.
1246. Defendants in error were indicted for a violation
of the Narcotic Act of December 17, 1914, c. 1, 38 Stat.
785. The indictment charged them with unlawfully selling to another a certain amount of a derivative of opium
and a certain amount of a derivative of coca leaves, not
in pursuance of any written order on a form issued in
blank for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, contrary to the provisions of ยง 2 of the act. The
defendants demurred to the indictment on the ground
that it failed to charge that they had sold the inhibited
drugs knowing them to be such. The statute does not
make such knowledge an element of the offense. The
District Court sustained the demurrer and quashed the
indictment. The correctness of this ruling is the question
before us.
While the general rule at common law was that the
scienter was a necessary element in the indictment and
proof of every crime, and this was followed in regard to
statutory crimes even where the statutory definition did

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

not in terms include it (Reg. v. Sleep, 8 Cox C. C. 472),
there has been a modification of this view in respect to
prosecutions under statutes the purpose of which would
be obstructed by such a requirement. It is a question of
legislative intent to be construed by the court. It has
been objected that punishment of a person for an act in
violation of law when ignorant of the facts making it so,
is an absence of due process of law. But that objection is
considered and overruled in Shevlin-Carpenter Co. v.
Minnesota, 218 U. S. 57, 69, 70, in which it was held that
in the prohibition or punishment of particular acts, the
State may in the maintenance of a public policy provide
"that he who shall do them shall do them at his peril and
will not be heard to plead in defense good faith or ignorance." Many instances of this are to be found in regulatory measures in the exercise of what is called the police
power where the emphasis of the statute is evidently upon
achievement of some social betterment rather than the
punishment of the crimes as in cases of mala in se. Commonwealth v. Mixer, 207 Mass. 141; Commonwealth v.
Smith, 166 Mass. 370; Commonwealth v. Hallett, 103
Mass. 452; People v. Kibler, 106 N. Y. 321; State v.
Kinkead, 57 Conn. 173; McCutcheon v. People, 69 Ill.
601; State v. Thompson, 74 Ia. 119; United States v.
Leathers, 6 Sawy. 17; United States v. Thomson, 12 Fed
245; United States v. Ma ]field, 177 Fed. 765; United
States v. 36 Bottles of Gin, 210 Fed. 271; Feeley v. United
States, 236 Fed. 903; Voves v. United States, 249 Fed.
191. So, too, in the collection of taxes, the importance to
the public of their collection leads the legislature to impose on the taxpayer the burden of finding out the facts
upon which .his liability to pay depends and meeting it at
the peril of punishment. Regina v. Woodrow, 15 M. &
W. 404; Bruihn v. Rex, [1909] A. C. 317. Again where
one deals with others and his mere negligence may be dangerous to them, as in selling diseased food or poison, the

UNITED STATES v. BALINT.
250.

Opinion of the Court.

policy of the law may, in order to stimulate proper care,
require the punishment of the negligent person though
he be ignorant of the noxious character of what he sells.
Hobbs v. Winchester Corporation,[1910] 2 K. B. 471,483.
The question before us, therefore, is one of the construction of the statute and of inference of the intent of
Congress. The Narcotic Act has been held by this court
to be a taxing act with the incidental purpose of minimizing the spread of addiction to the use of poisonous and
demoralizing drugs. United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.
86, 94; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 402.
Section 2 of the Narcotic Act, 38 Stat. 786, we give in
part in the margin.1 It is very evident from a reading of
1 Part of ยง 2 of an act entitled An Act To provide for the registration of, with collectors of internal revenue, and to impose a special tax
upon all persons who produce, import, manufacture, compound, deal
in, dispense, sell, distribute, or give away opium or coca leaves,
their salts, derivatives, or preparations, and for other purposes, approved December 17, 1914, 38 Stat. 785, 786:
Sec. 2. That it shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter, exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs except in pursuance
of a written order of the person to whom such article is sold, bartered, exchanged, or given, on a form to be issued in blank for that
purpose by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Every person
who shall accept any such order, and in pursuance thereof shall sell,
barter, exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs, shall preserve such order for a period of two years in such a way as to be
readily accessible to inspection by any officer, agent, or employee of
the Treasury Department duly authorized for that purpose, and the
State, Territorial, District, municipal, and insular officials named in
section five of this Act. Every person who shall give an rider as
herein provided to any other person for any of the aforesaid 'crugs
shall, at or before the time of giving such order, make or cause to
be made a duplicate thereof on a form to be issued in blank for that
purpose by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and in case of
the acceptance of such order, shall preserve such duplicate for said.,
period of two years in such a way as to be readily accessible'to inspection by the officers, agents, employees, and officials hereinbefore
mentioned.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

it that the emphasis of the section is in securing a close supervision of the business of dealing in these dangerous
drugs by the taxing offices of the Government and that
it merely uses a criminal penalty to secure recorded evidence of the disposition of such drugs as a means of taxing and restraining the traffic. Its manifest purpose is to
require every person dealing in drugs to ascertain at his
peril whether that which he sells comes within the inhibition of the statute, and if he sells the inhibited drug
in ignorance of its character, to penalize him. Congress
weighed the possible injustice of subjecting an innocent.
seller to a penalty against the evil ofexposing innocent
purchasers to danger from the drug, and concluded that
the latter was the resul4 preferably to be avoided.
Doubtless considerations as to the opportunity of the
seller to find out the fact and the difficulty of proof of
knowledge 'ontributed to this conclusion. We think the
demurrer to the. indictment should have been overruled.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in this decision.
PONZJ v. FESSENDEN ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 631. Argued larch 8, 9, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.
1. Our system of state and federal jurisdiction requires a spirit of
reciprocal comity between courts to promote due and orderly procedure. P. 259.
2. The fact that a man is serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed
by a federal court for a federal offense, does not render him
immune to prosecution in a state court for offenses committed
against the State. P. 264.
3. A federal prisoner may, with the consent of the United States, be
brought before a state court, for trial on indictment there, by a
writ of habeas corpus issued by that court and directed to the
warden having him in charge as federal agent, then to be returned
and serve out the federal sentenc6. P. 261.

