FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
466.

483

Syllabus.

Finally, our attention is called to an Act approved
August 10, 1921 (Laws 1921, No. 173, p. 83), providing for
an occupation tax upon all distributors selling gasoline
and other motor fuels in the State, requiring them to register and make.returns, and "(except those importing and
selling it in the original packages in which it is brought
into the State)" to pay an occupation tax based upon the
quantities sold. It is conceded that this does not repeal or
affect the inspection laws, and no argument is rested upon
it except in support of contentions already disposed of.
The decree of the District Court must be, and it is
Affirmed.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. WINSTED"
HOSIERY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 333.

Argued March 13, 14, 1922..-Decided April 24, 1922.

1. Findings of fact made by the Federal Trade Commission are
conclusive when supported by evidence. P. 491.
2. A manufacturer's practice of selling underwear and other knit
goods made partly of wool but labeled as "natural merino,"
"natural worsted ", "natural wool-" and with other like terms
taken by a substantial part of the consuming public and sometimes in the retail tradd a indicating pure wool fabrics, with the
result of misleading part of the public into buying, as all-wool,
garments made largely of cotton and of aiding and encouraging
misrepresentations by unscrupulous retailers and their salesmen,
is an unfair method of competition as against manufacturers of
like garments made of wool or wool and cotton, who brand their
products truthfully, and is subject to be suppressed under § 5 of
the Federal Trade Commission Act. P. 491.
3. Such a method of competition, inherently unfair, does not cease
to be. so because competitors become aware. of it or because it
"9544°-23-----34

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

becomes so well known to the trade that retailers, as distinguished
from consumers, are no longer deceived by it. P. 493.
272 Fed. 957, reversed.

CERTIORARI to review a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals setting aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission under § 5 of the Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311,
38 Stat. 719.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. WV. H. Fuller, M r. Adrien F. Busick and M11r. James T. Clark were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Both from the standard of general public morals and
from the legal point of view, the practice of misbranding
must be held to come within the category of acts "heretofore regarded as opposed to good morals because characterized by deception, bad faith, fraud," etc. Federal
Trade Commission v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427; Curtis
Publishing Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 270 Fed.
881, 908; Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 258 Fed. 307.
The legislative history of the Federal Trade Commission Act shows that it was the intention of Congress to
make all unfair methods of competition unlawful, and to
regulate competition rather than solely to prevent monopoly. The purpose to prevent unfair practices in trade
enlarges the natural interpretation of "unfair methods of
competition" to include whatever might be against the
public interest as obstructing the channels of fair competition, on the preservation of which the policy of the ('ongress is firmly based.
The practice alleged in this proceeding has all the essential elements that make "passing off" or " unfair competition " an unfair method of competition.
The essential elements of unfair competition as known
to the common law are deception of, or fraud on, the
public and consequent injury to competitors. The cause

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
483.

485

Argument for Petitioner.

of action seems to be based primarily on the protection
to be given to a producer's property right in a trade mark
or name, or in the good will attached thereto, against one
who simulates them so as to confuse the public and to
pass off his goods for another's. It is essential, as the
basis of the injutry to the complainant, that the deception
of the public, or the likelihood of' such deception, be
shown.
While in the form of the instant proceeding no individual producer is complainant, and no specific individual
private injury to property right is set up, such injuries
to competitors of the respondent collectively who do not
misrepresent follow inevitably from the misrepresentation of respondent's labels. The practices complained
of affect a class of competitors and not an individual
competitor, whose trade mark or name or product is
simulated.
In a proper case of unfair competition, or passing off,
at common law, the public is involved, and its deception
is essential to the action. The two cases involve the same
elements, viz, misrepresentation and deception of the
public and consequent injury to a competitor or competitors.
The manufacturer is responsible to the public. Deception of the dealer is immaterial. The deceptive character
of the label being granted, its natural and reasonable effect
will be presumed, and it is not necessary to show actual
collusion of the manufacturer with the retailer. to deceive
-the public. Nims, Unfair Competition, § 381, and authorities cited; New England Awl & Needle Co. v. Marlborough Awl & Needle Co., 168 Mass. 154, 155; Fuller v.
Huff, 211 Fed. 610; Scriven v. North, 134 Fed. 366, 375;
Coca Cola Co. v. Gay-Ola Co., 200 Fed. 720, 722, 723;
Rubber Co. v. Devoe & Reynolds Co., 233 Fed. 150; 157;
38 Cyc. 778; Fairbanks Co. v. Bell Mfg. Co., 77 Fed. 868,
878; Estes & Sons v. Frost Co., 176 Fed.. 338, 340.

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

Only ordinary purchasers, including the unwary and
ignorant, need be misled. Bissell Chilled Plow Works v.
Bissell Plow Co., 121 Fed. 357, 366. See also Notaseme
Hosiery Co. v. Straus, 201 Fed. 99, 100; Photo-PlayPublishing Co. v. La Verne Publishing Co., 269 Fed. 730;
Samson Cordage Works v. Puritan Cordage Mills, 211
Fed. 603, 610; Winterton Gum Co. v. Autosales Gum Co.,
211 Fed. 612, 617; Royal Baking Powder Co. v. Donohue,
265 Fed. 406; Houston v. St. Louis Packing Co., 249 U. S.
479; Thum Co. v. Dickinson, 245 Fed. 609, 613.
The probable effect, not the intention, governs. It is a
question of preventing, by the Commission's order, practices or methods which may in reason cause the results of
unfair competition, before the effects are realized, and it
is not necessary to show the accomplished fact of unfair
competition. Beech-Nut Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 264 Fed. 885, 890; Federal Trade Commission v.
Gratz, 258 Fed. 314, 317; Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 258 Fed. 307, 311.
Proof of actual intention to deceive is not essential.
Rubber Co. v. Devoe & Reynolds Co., 233 Fed. 150, 157;
Van Houten v. Hooton Co., 130 Fed. 600; HanoverMilling
Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, 413. This is the law in England. Kerly on Trade Marks, p. 482; Cary Sons v. Crisp,
19 R. P. C. 497; Birmingham Small Arms Co. v. Webb, 24
R. P. C. 27; Powell v. Birmingham Vinegar Co., 2 Ch. 54.
Actual deception or damage need not be shown. Sears,
Roebuck & Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 258 Fed.
307; National Harness 21Manufacturers Assn. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 268 Fed. 705, 713; Beech-Nut Packing Co. v. Federal Trade Conmission, 264 Fed. 885. 890;
Arotasenie Hosiery Co. v. Straus, 201 Fed. 99, 100; Rubber
Co. v. Devoe & Reynolds Co., 233 Fed. 150, 156; Intcrnational Silver Co. v. Rogers Corporation, 66 N. J. Eq.
129; 38 Cyc. 775-777, 780.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
483.

487

Argument for Respondent.

The history of the law of unfair competition shows a
steady broadening from the protection of the exclusive
property right in a trade mark to the protection of the
good will in a name against those who seek by borrowing
the name to which it is attached to use it for themselves to
the-loss of the original user. As this development of the
law has progressed, the impqrtance of the element of the
public's interest in not being imposed upon has increased
as that of the individual who invokes the court's action
has receded. Estes & Sons v. Frost Co., 176 Fed. 338;
Trinidad Asphalt Co. v. Standard Paint Co., 163 Fed. 977,
980, affd. 220 U. S: 446; Pillsbury-WashburnFlour Mills
v. Eagle, 86 Fed. 608; Kinney v. Basch, 16 Am. Law Reg.
(N. S.) 596.
Misbranding is a defense, as a fraud on the public.
Worden v. California Fig Syrup Co., 187 U. S. 516, 528;
Church v. Proctor, 66 Fed. 240.
The public is entitled to know what it gets. Pillsbury
v. Pillsbury-Washburn Flour Mills, 64 Fed. 841, 848;
Prince Mfg. Co. v. Prince Metallic Paint Co., 135 N. Y. 24,
cited with approval in Worden v. California Fig Syrup
Co., supra.
Inveteracy of fraudulent practice is only an aggravation.
Mr. Melville J. France, with whom Mr.Henry P. Molloy was on the brief, for respondent.
Findings of fact, which are the basis of the conclusion
of law of the Commission, are not supported by the evidence in some instances and in others omit vital matters
contained in its proof, which the Commission conveniently seeks to ignore.
"Merino ",as applied to unaerwear, has for more than
half a century meant a combination of cotton and wool.
Webster's New International Dictionary; Murray's New
English Dictionary; Cole's Dictionary of Dry Goods
(1892); Encyclopedia Britannica. 11th ed.; Treas. Dec.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondent.

258 U. S.

No. 10736; Greenleaf v. Worthington, 26 Fed. 303; The
Knit Underwear Industry, p. 16, Miscellaneous Series
No. 32, Department of Commerce, Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce; The Hosiery Industry, p. 14, Table
5, Miscellaneous Series No. 31,. Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce; Thirteenth Census, 1910, Vol. X,
p. 79.
There is nothing in the case which can in any fairness
sustain a finding that, as to a retailer, the term "merino"
carried the representation that the garment was all wool.
To the same degree such a finding is unwarranted as
to the ultimate consumer, with whom it must be remembered this petitioner had no dealings.
The Commission cannot ignore a matter which is vital
to the determination of the issue. Curtis Publishing Co.
v. Federal Trade Commission, 270 Fed. 881, 911.
The Commission found that the respondent is a knit
underwear manufacturer; that it sells and ships its product to retailers throughout the United States and uses
labels containing the word "merino" on its boxes but not
on its garments, where the garment so sold isnot composed wholly of wool but is part wool and part cotton;
and that the word "merino" is used by manufacturers
of yarn and knit underwear and generally by jobbers and
retailers as a trade term meaning a combination of cotton
and wool.
The Commission has therefore found as a fact that in
the industry in which the respondent must find its competitors and among those to whom it sells its product,
"merino" means and is used to define a garment made
of cotton and wool. In so labeling its product, there is no
fraud, no deception and absolutely nothing unfair. When
a term is used, which is general in its use, which is generally used by manufacturers, jobbers and retailers in the
knitwear industry, to describe exactly the kind of garment
which the respondent makes, wherein lies the unfair
method of competition?

FEDERAL TRADE. COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
483.

489

Argument for Respondent.

The respondent and its competitors sell to retailers and
jobbers. It is not engaged in competition in selling to the
purchasing public-its field of operation is that of jobbers
and retailers. They, according to the Commission's finding, "generally" used the term "merino" just as does
this respondent. But further, can this respondent be
penalized and condemned for the ignorance of those whom
the Commission has discovered? The respondent was
using the term " merino "in accordance with correct usage
and definition. What authority has the Commission to
brand this respondent as engaging in an unfair method of
competition because of the ignorance of a salesman o'r the
dishonesty of a tradesman?
The Commission is without jurisdiction over the facts
of this case. Misbranding of goods is not " unfair competition."
The purpose behind the act was the regulation of competition. Report, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, June 13, 1914, 63d Cong., 2d sess., No. 597, p. 10.
The phrase "unfair methods of competition" has been
interpreted and defined by the courts. Sears, Roebuck &.
Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 258 Fed. 407; Federal
Trade Commission v. Gratz, 258 Fed. 314; and the many
cases cited in Kinney-Ro-e Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 275 Fed. 665.
First and foremost, therefore, there must be actual
competition before there can be any unfair competition.
In the case at bar there is no competition in the use of the
word "merino." It has been used in the knitgoods industry for more than half a century to define a fabric made
of cotton and wool. It never has been used to define an
all wool garment. See Federal Trade Commission v.
Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427.
While the argument has been based upon a consideration of the term "merino," it applies with full force and
effect to every tefm which the petitioner employed and
which "theCommission has condemned.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Mr. Frank F. Reed and Mr. Edward S. Rogers, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Daniel Davenport,Mr. Morten Q. Macdonald and
Mr.Walter Gordon Merritt,by leave of court, filed a brief
as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Winsted Hosiery Company has for many years
manufactured underwear which it sells to retailers
throughout the United States. It brands or labels the
cartons in which the underwear is sold, as "Natural
Merino ", " Gray Wool ", " Natural Wool ", " Natural
Worsted ", or "Australian Wool ". None of this underwear is all wool. Much of it contains only a small percentage of wool; some as little as ten per cent. The
Federal Trade Commission instituted a complaint under
§ 5 of the Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717,
719, and called upon the company to show cause why
use of these brands and labels alleged to be false and
deceptive should not be discontinued. After appropriate
proceedings an order was issued which, as later modified,
directed the company to "cease and desist from employing or using as labels or brands on underwear or other
knit goods not composed wholly of wool, or on the
wrappers, boxes, or other containers in which they arc
delivered to customers, the words 'Merino', 'Wool', or
'Worsted', alone or in combination with any other word
or words, unless accompanied by a word or words designating the substance, fiber, or material other than wool
of which the garments are composed in part (e. g.,
'Merino, Wool, and Cotton'; 'Wool and Cotton';
'Worsted, Wool, and Cotton'; 'Wool, Cotton, and Sill:'),
or by a word or words otherwise clearly indicating that
such underwear or other goods is not made wholly of
wool (e. g., part wool)."

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
483.

491

Opinion of the Court.

A petition for review of this order was tiled by the
company in the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit. The prayer that the order be set
aside was granted; and a decree to that effect was entered.1 That court said: "Conscientious manufacturers
may prefer not to use a label which. is capable of misleading, and it may be that it will be desirable to prevent
the use. of the particular labels, but it is in our opinion
not within the province of the Federal Trade Commission
to do so." 272 Fed. 957, 961. The case is here on writ of
certiorari. 256 U. Se 688.
The order of the Commission rests -upon findings of
fact; and these upon evidence which fills three hundred
and fifty pages of the printed record. Section 5 of the
act makes the Commission's findings concluSive as to the
.facts, if supported by evidence.,
The findings here involved are clear, specific and comprehensive: The word "Merino" as applied to wool
"means primarily and popularly" a fine long-staple wool,
which commands the highest price. The words "Australian Wool" mean a distinct commodity, a fine grade of
wool grown in Australia. The word "wool" when used
as an adjective means made of wool. The word 'worsted" means primarily and popularly a- yarn or fabric
made wholly of wool. A substantial part of the consuming public, and also some buyers for retailers and sales
I The original order of the Commission was based on findings which
rested upon an agreed statement of facts. The petition for review
urged, among other things, that the agreed statement did not support
the findings. Thereupon th Commission moved in t, Court of
Appeals that the case be remanded to the Commission fo additional
evidence as provided in .the fourthx paagraph of § 5 of the act.
Under leave so granted the evidence was taken; and modified findings of fact were made. The modified order was based on these
findings. It is this modified orddr which was set aside by the Court
6f Appeals; and we have no occasion t6 consider the original order

or the proceedings which led up to it.

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

25S U. S.

people, understand the words "Merino ", " Natural
Merino ", "Gray Merino ", "Natural Wool ", "Gray
Wool ", "Australian Wool" and " Natural Worsted ",
as applied to underwear, to mean that the underwear is all
wool. By means of the labels and brands of the Winsted
Company bearing such words, part of the public is misled
into selling or into buying as all wool, underwear which
in fact is in large part cotton. And these brands and
labels tend to aid and encourage the representations of
unscrupulous retailers and their salesmen who knowingly sell to their customers as all wool, underwear which
is largely composed of cotton. Knit underwear made
wholly of wool, has for many years -been widely manufactured and sold in this country and constitutes a substantial part of all knit underwear dealt in. It is sold
under various labels or brands, including "Wool ", "All
Wool", "Natural Wool" and "Pure Wool ", and also
under other labels which do not contain any words descriptive of the composition of the article. Knit underwear made of cotton and wool is also used in this country
by some manufacturers who market it without any label
or, marking describing the material or fibres of which it is
composed, and by some who market it under labels bearing the words "Cotton and Wool" or "Part Wool."
The Winsted Company's product, labeled and branded as
above stated, is being sold in competition with such all
wool underwear, and such cotton and. wool underwear.
That these findings of fact are supported by evidence
cannot be doubted. But it is contended that the method
of competition complained of is not unfair within the
.meaning of the act, lecause labels such as the Winsted
Company employs, aid particularly those bearing the
word "Merino ", have long been established in the trade
and, are generally understood by it as indicating goods
partly of cotton; that the trade is not deceived by them;
that, there was no unfair competition for which another

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
483.

493

Opinion of the Court.

manufacturer of underwear could maintain a suit against
the Winsted Company; and that even if consumers are
misled because they do not understand the trade signification of the label or because some retailers deliberately
deceive them as to its meaning, the result is in no way
legally connected with unfair competition.
This argument appears to have prevailed with the Court
of Appeals; but it is unsound. The labels in question are
literally false, and, except -those which bear the word
"Merino ", are palpably so. All are, as the Commission
found, calculated to deceive and do in "fact deceive a'substantial portion of the purchasing public. That deception
is due primarily to the words of the labels, and not to deliberate deception by the retailers from whom the consumer purchases. While it is true that a econdary meaning of the word "'Merino" is shown, it is not a meaning so
thoroughly established that the description which the label
carries has ceased to deceive the public; for even buyers
for retahlers, and sales people, are found to have been misled. The facts show that it is to the interest of the public.
that a proceeding to stop the practice be brought. And
they show also. that the practice constitutes an unfair
method of competition as against manufacturers of all
wool knit underwear and as against those manufacturers
of. mixed wool and cotton underwear who brnd their
product truthfully. For when misbranded goods attract
customers by means of the fraud which they perpetrate,
trade is diverted from the-producer of truthfully marked
goods. That these honest manufacturers might protect
their trade by also resorting tc deceptive labels is no defense to this proceeding brought against the Winsted
Company in 'thepublic interest.
The fact that misrepresentation and misdescription have
become so common in the knit. underwear trade that most
dealers no longer accept labels at their face value, does not
prevent their use being an uifair method of competition.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Dissent.

258 U. S.

A method inherently unfair does not cease to be so because
those competed against have become aware of the wrongful practice. Nor does it cease to be unfair because the
falsity of the manufacturer's representation has become
so well known to the trade that dealers, as distinguished
from consumers, are no longer deceived. The honest
manufacturer's business may suffer, not merely through a
competitor's deceiving his direct customer, the retailer,
but also through the competitor's putting into the hands
of the retailer an unlawful instrument, which enables the
retailer to increase his own sales of the dishonest goods,
thereby lessening the market for the honest product.
That a person is a wrongdoer who so furnishes another
with the means of consummating a fraud has long been a
part of the law of unfair competition.', And trade-marks
which deceive the public are denied protection although
members of the trade are not misled thereby.2 As a substaritial part of the public was still misled by the use of the
labels which the Winsted Company employed, the public
had an interest in stopping the practice as wrongful; and
since the business of its trade rivals who marked their
goods 'truthfully was necessarily affected by that practice,
the Commission was justified in its conclusion that the
practice constituted an unfair method of competition;
and it was authorized t6 order that the practice be discontinued.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.
JVon Mumm v. Frash, 56 Fed. 830; Coca Cola Co. v. Gay-Ola Co.,
200 Fed. 720,722; New Eingland Awl & Needle Co. v. Marlborough
Awl & Needle Co., 168 Mass. 154, 155.
2 Manhattan Medicine Co. v. Wood, 108 U. S. 218; Worden v.
CaliforniaFig Syrup Co., 187 U. S. 516, 538.

