CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREMVIE COURT OF TUE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

HAWES v. STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 95.

Submitted January 17, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

A state law providing that a person prosecuted for permitting apparatus for distilling intoxicating liquors to be upon real estate
actually occupied by him shall be prima facie presumed to have
known of the presence of such apparatus there found, does not
violate due process of law, even where the defendant is not allowed
to testify under oath or to have the testimony of his wife. P. 3.
i50 Ga. 101, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
sustaining a conviction and sentence of the plaintiff in
error for having knowingly permitted and allowed a certain person or persons to have, and possess and locate on
his premises apparatus for the distilling and manufacturing of liquors specified in the Act of March 28, 1917, Acts
Ex. Sess. 1917, p. 7.
Mr. Marion Smith for plaintiff in error. Mr. F. H.
Colley and Mr. CarrollD. Colley were also on the brief.
Mr. George M. Napier, Attorney General of the State
of Georgia, and Mr. Seward M. Smith for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

2

Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE, MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Indictment against Hawes under the law of Georgia for
the offense of knowingly permitting certain persons to
locate and have on his premises apparatus for distilling
and manufacturing prohibited liquors and beverages.
A verdict of guilty was rendered. A motion for new
trial was made and denied, which action and the judgment of the trial court were affirmed on appeal by the
Supreme Court of the State.
The act of the State upon which the indictment was
based [Acts Ex. Sess., 1917, p. 7] made it unlawful, among
other things, "to distill, manufacture, or make any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, or malted liquors or intoxicating
beverages" in the State.
Section 22 of the act provides that when any apparatus
used for such purposes "is found or discovered upon said
premses the same shall be prima facie evidence that the
person in actual possession had knowledge of the existence
of the same, and on conviction therefor, shall be punished
as prescribed in section 16 of this Act, the burden of proof,
in all cases being upon the person in actual possession to
show the want of knowledge of the existence of such apparatus on his premises."
The trial court instructed the jury that Hawes was
charged with knowing who had the apparatus upon the
premises of which he was in possession or who operated
it, and that under the act the burden was upon him to
show the want of knowledge. And further, that all that
the.State had to show was that the apparatus was on the
premises, and "When the State shows that, stopping there
that makes out a prima facie case against defendant and
you should find the defendant guilty as charged in the
indictment," unless he show that the apparatus was there
tkotoitt his consent and knowledge.

HAWES v. GEORGIA.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

The charge was made the basis of a motion for new
trial on the ground that it was offensive to the due process clause of the Constitution of the United States and
also of the constitution of Georgia. The same grounds
were assigned in the Supreme Court of the State on appeal from the order and judgment denying the motion
for new trial.
In the Supreme Court the specific error against the
charge of the court was that it cast upon Hawes the
burden of "showing the want of knowledge of the
existence of the apparatus on his premises, and in fine
his innocence of the crime with which he is charged," he
"claiming that this was an unreasonable and arbitrary
exercise of its power by the legislature of the State of
Georgia."
And this is the assignment here, in other words, that
ยง 22 creates a presumption of guilty knowledge from the
finding of the apparatus upon premises occupied by him,
and that both the trial court and the Supreme Court of
Georgia enforced this statutory presumption and the same,
therefore, entered into his conviction, and that the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States was thereby violated.
In aid of his contention and in emphasis of the effect of
the statute against him, Hawes points out that a defendant in a criminal case is not allowed to testify as a
witness, that he has only the right to make a statement
not under oath, and that husband and wife are not competent or compellable to give evidence in any criminal
proceeding for or against each other.'
1 Section 1036 of the Penal Code is as follows: "In' all criminal
trials, the prisoner shall have the right to make to the court and jury
such statement in the case as he may deem proper in his defense.
It shall not be under oath, and shall have such force only as the jury
may think right to give it. They may believe it in preference to
the sworn testimony in the case. The prisoner shall not be com544-23

4

4-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

It has been decided, as counsel concede, that the legislature may make one fact prima facie evidence of another, and it is certainly within the established power of a
State to prescribe the evidence which is to be received in
the courts of its own government. Adams v. New York,
192 11. S. 585, 588.
In Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 214, it is said,
"the establishment of presumptions, and of rules respecting the burden of proof, is clearly within the domain of
the state governments, and that a provision of this character, not unreasonable in itself and not conclusive of
the rights of the party, does not constitute a denial of
due process of law. Mobile, Jackson & Kansas City R. R.
Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42."
Undoubtedly there must be a relation between the two
facts. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219; McFarland v.
American Sugar Refining Co., 241 U. S. 79. That is, if
one may evidence the other, there must be connection
between them, a requirement that reasoning insists on
and, necessarily, the law.
We think the condition is satisfied by the Georgia statute. Distilling spirits is not an ordinary incident of a
farm and in a prohibition State has illicit character and
purpose, and certainly is not so silent and obscure in use
that one who rented a farm upon which it was or had been
conducted would probably be ignorant of it. On the conpelled to answer any questions on cross-examination, should he think
proper to decline to answer."
Section 1037 of the Penal Code i. as follows: "Husband and wife
shall not be competent or compellable to give evidence in any criminal proceeding for or against each other, except that the wife shall
be competent, but not compellable, to testify against her husband
upon his trial for any criminal offense committed, or attempted to
have been committed, upon her person. She is also a competent
witness 'o testify for or against her husband in cases of abandonment of his child, as provided for in section 116 of this Code."

HIAWES v. GEORGIA.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

trary, it may be presumed that one on such a farm or one
who occupies it will know what there is upon it. It is not
arbitrary for the State to act upon the presumption and
erect it into evidence of knowledge; not peremptory, of
course, but subject to explanation, and affording the
means of explanation. Hawes had such means. An explanatory statement was open to him with a detail of the
circumstances of his acquisition of the place, and he
availed himself of it. He could have called others to testify to the circumstances of his acquisition, for the circumstances were not so isolated or secret as not to have
been known to others.
We agree, therefore, with the Supreme Court of the
State that the existence upon land of distilling apparatus,
consisting of the still itself, boxes, and barrels, has a natural relation to the fact that the occupant of the land has
knowledge of the existence of such objects and their
situation.
The principle and the presumption depending upon it
were certainly not strained against Hawes. To the comment of the court we may add that the distilling apparatus was within 300 yards of his house. It is true that a
pasture intervened, it was testified, between it and his
house and then "a hill with pines growing on it, and
there was a descent down a hill to where the still was located" though "it could not have been seen from the
house, but smoke rising from it could have been seen.
There was across the pasture a path leading toward the
still." It was added, however, that the path might "have
been made by cattle or stock." And a witness testified
that the path was old.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

