EXPORTERS v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON CO. 35
362.

Syllabus.

debt and in behalf. of the shareholder, leaving to the corporations the right to reimbursement for the tax paid from
their shareholders, either under some express statutory
authority for their recovery or under the general principle
of law that one who pays the debt of another at his request can recover the amount from him." Home Savings
Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 518. But as pointed
out in Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.
664, 676, 677, a tax levied upon a corporation measured
by the value of its shares is not equivalent to one upon
the shareholders in respect of their shares.
Where the validity of an assessment by officers of the
State is properly challenged, and the matter comes here,
this court must determine the effect of the thing actually
done. What might have been done under the local statute
is not controlling. We think it clear that the assessment
in the present case was against ihe corporation and beyond the power of the State definitely'delimited by ยง 5219.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
or-decision of this cause.

EXPORTERS 0F MANUFACTURERS r PRODUCTS,
INC. v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECONTD CIRCUIT.

No.390. Argued March 14, 1922.-Dcided April 10, 1922.
After expiration of the term of the District Court at which final judgment was entered and after expiration of an extension of the t-erm
provide'd by general rule, but before a- day to which the parties,

OCTOBER TERMi, 1921.
Argument f6r Plaintiff in Error.

258 U. S.

after such expirations, stipulated the term should be extended ,or
the purpose, a bill of exceptions was proposed to and settled and
signed by the judge. Held that the consent gave no jurisdiction
and the bill was unlawful. P. 368.

QUESTIONS certified by the court below under Jud. Code

ยง 239.
Mr. Henry M. Ward for Exporters of Manufacturers'
Products, Inc.
The validity of a stipulation for the settlement of a bill
of exceptions made after the expiration of the term of the
trial court, as extended by standing rule, has been repeatedly recognized by this court. Ex parte Bradstreet, 4
Pet. 102; Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333; Jenningsv.
Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington Ry. Co., 218 U. S.
255; Michigan Insurance Bank v. Eldred, 143 U. S. 293.
The District Court had the power on the stipulation to
enter the orders by which the term was extended, and
hence the trial judge had power to settle the bill of exceptions. Hunnicutt v. Peyton, 102 U. S. 333; Life Insurance Co. v. Francisco, 17 Wall. 672, 679; United States v.
Breitling, 20 How. 252.
Defendant having entered into the stipulation is estopped from questioning its validity.
The plaintiff followed the well settled practice in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Blisse
v. United St'ates, 263 Fed. 961; Exporters of 3anufacturers Products v. Butterworth-JudsonCo., 265 Fed. 907,
908.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in granting the motion
to strike out, now before it on rehearing, misapprehended
the decision of this-court in O'Connell v. United States,
253 U. S. 142. In all the cases cited by this court in the
O'Connell Case it is'either assumed or expressly stated
that a stipulation is valid even though made after the
expiration of the term. Davis v. Patrick, 122 U. S. 138;
Waldron v. Waldron, 156 U. S. 361.

EXPORTERS v. BUTTERWORTH-JUDSON CO.
365.

367

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William Wallace, Jr., for Butterworth-Judson
Company.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Asking instruction as provided by ยง 239, Judicial Code,
the Circuit.Court of Appeals fb? the Second Circuit has
sent up the statement and question which follow.
"This cause came here on a writ of error to a judgment in favor of the Butterworth-Judson Company in
an action at law in the District Court for the Southern
District of New York. Judgment resulted from the verdict of a jury and thereupon plaintiff-in-error took a writ.
"The stated terms of the trial court as prescribed by
Act of Congress begin each month on the first Tuesday
thereof; but a general rule of that court provides as follows: 'For the purpose of taking any action which must
be taken within the term of the court at which final judgment or decree is entered, each term of court is extended
for ninety days from the date of entry of the final judgment or decree.'
"In respect to this case the ninety day period above
provided for, and therefore the Term at which the final
judgment in question was entered expired on the 24th of
February, 1920.
"On March 1, 1920, a written stipulation was executed
between the attorneys for the parties hereto in the words
following: 'It is hereby stipulated and agreed by and
between the parties hereto that the November Term of
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York be extended to April 6, 1920, for the
purpose of settling and filing the bill of exceptions herein.'
"On or before the 6th of April, 1920, but long after the
24th of February, 1920, the plaintiff-in-error proposed a
bill 'of exceptions. Thereupon the trial Judge over the
objectior of defendant-in-error and on the faith of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

stipulation above quoted, settled and signed the bill of
exceptions annexed to the writ of error herein and now
in this court.
"Defendant-in-error then moved in this court for an
order striking from the record the bill of exceptions so
settled as above set forth, on the ground that the same
had been settled, signed and made a part of the record
herein in contravention of law, in that the term had expired.
"Upon consideration of this motion a question of law
arises concerning which this court desires the instruction
of the Supreme Court in order properly to decide the
cause.
"Question Certified. Is the bill of exceptions so as
.above set forth settled, signed and certified to this court
in contravention of law, in that the term had expired before the same was offered for. settlement?"
In the recent case of- O'Connell v. United States, 253
U. S. 142, 146, we reaffirmed the doctrine announced in
Michigan Insurance Banc v. Eldred, 143 U. S. 293, 298"By the uniform course of decision, no exceptions to
rulings at a trial can be considered by this court, unless
they were taken at the trial, and were also embodied in a
formal bill of exceptions presented to the judge at the
same term, or' within a further time allowed by order
entered at that term, or by standing rule of court, or
by consent of parties; and, save under very extraordinary
circumstances, they must be allowed by the judge and
filed with the clerk during the same term. After the
term has expired, without the court's control over the
case being reserved by standing rule or special order,
and especially after a writ 'of -error has been entered
,in this court, all authority of the court below to allow
a bill of exceptions then first presented, or to alter or
amend a bill of exceptions already allowed and filed, is
at an end."

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. WHITNACK CO.
365.

369

Syllabus.

And applying this rule we held the bill of exceptions,
signed by the trial judge after expiration of the time
allowed by the rule of court, was no part of the record.
In the present' cause the term as extended had expired
before any action concerning the bill of exceptions was
taken by either court or counsel. In sifch circumstances
the court had no power to approve it unless this could be
conferred by mere consent of counsel. This they could
not do.
Consent of parties can not give jiurisdiction to courts of
the United States. Railway Co. v. Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322,
327. The policy of the law requires that litigation be terminated within a reasonable time and not piotracted at
the mere option of the parties. See United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S.55, 70. We think the better rule and
the one supported by former opinions of this court requires that billso, exceptions shall be signed" before the
trial court loses, jurisdiction of the cause by expiratibn
of the term or such time thereafter as may have been
duly prescribed. The certified .question is accordingly
answered in the affirmative..

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. C. C. 'WHITNACK PRODUCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI' TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEBRASKA.
No. 146. -Argued March 3, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.
1. When goods moving in interstate commerce upon a through bill
of lading are delivered in bad condition and the -evidence shows
that they Vere sound when received by the initial carrier but does
not 'affirmatively establish where the. loss, occurred, there is a
-common-law presumption, applicable under the Carmack Amend-

