WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
6.

13

Syllabus.

nor, indeed, knowledge of them. To hold the Government liable under such circumstances would make it insurer of the uniformity of all work and cast upon it responsibility for all of the conditions which a contractor
might encounter and make the cost of its projects always
an unknown quantity. It is hardly necessary to say that
the cost of a project often determines for or against its
undertaking.
Judgment affirmed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 259.

Argued January 4, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

A telegraph company whose line occupied part of a railroad right
of way under an expired contract with the railroad company obtained a judgment under Ky. Stats., § 4679c, adjudging it a right
to condemn the easement and fixing the damages, which it paid
into court; and, pending an appeal upon which the Circuit Court
of Appeals ordered a new trial on the right to include part of the
property affected and on the damages, an act was passed (Acts
.1916, c. 15) providing generally that no part of a railroad right
of way should be condemned, longitudinally, for a telegraph line,
and making no exception of pending cases. Held: (1) That the
telegraph company acquired no vested right through the judgment, and its right to condemn was repealed by the later act.
P. 18.
(2) Kentucky Stats., § 465, declaring against construing a new law
to repeal a former law as to rights accrued or claims arising under it, or in any way whatever to affect any right accrued or claim
arising before the new law takes effect, was inapplicable. P. 19.
(3) The withdrawal of the right of condemnation violated neither
the Fourteenth Amendment nor the provision of the Kentucky
constitution forbidding any interference by the legislature with
judicial proceedings in court. P. 19.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
appellant's petition in condemnation. A former appeal in
this case went to the Circuit Court of Appeals. 249 Fed.
385. In an ancillary proceeding, an injunction was granted
by the District Court, 201 Fed. 946, and sustained by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, but on a subsequent appeal that
court decided that it should be dissolved because of the
repealing statute here in question. See 268 Fed. 4, 13.

/1r. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. Rush Taggart,
with whom Mr. Francis R. Stark and Mr. W. Overton
Harris were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Edward S. Jouett
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR

JUSTIcE MCKENNA delivered

the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error, herein called the Telegraph Company, brought this proceeding to condemn an easement
upon the right of way of defendant in error, herein called
the Railroad Company, in exercise of a right conferred by
a Kentucky statute of 1898 (Ky. Stats., § 4679c).'
1
§ 4679c. 1. Right of to erect and operate lines. That a telegraph company chartered or incorporated by the laws of this or any
other State, shall, upon making just compensation, as hereafter provided, have the right to construct, maintain and operate telegraph
lines through any public lands of this State, . . . and on, along
and upon the right of way and structures of any railroad in this
in such manner as not to interfere with the orState: .
.
. raildinary use or the ordinary travel and traffic on such .
roads,
'Now upon payment of said
"7. Judgment, form of.
award either to the defendant or to the clerk of this court, and all
Telegraph Company may
costs in this behalf expended, saidenter upon said land and appropriate so much thereof as may be
necessary, as prayed for in its petition.'"

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
13.

15

Opinion of the Court.

The purpose is to condemn as a right under the sanction of the statute so much of the right of way of the
Railroad Company as was occupied at the time of suit
by the Telegraph Company under a contract with the
Railroad Company, which was about to expire.
After pleadings in addition to the petition and answer,
the case was tried to a jury, which returned a verdict
fixing the compensation and damages at $500,000. The
verdict was received and entered and it was adjudged by
the court that the Telegraph Company have the right it
petitioned for.
A new trial was ordered, and the court reserved to itself the decision of the necessity of the easement, and
whether, if adjudged, it would "interfere with the ordinary use by," the Railroad Company "of its right of
way, or with the ordinary travel and traffic on the railroad." Both questions were ultimately resolved in favor
of the Telegraph Company and a jury having been duly
impaneled, and instructed by the court, assessed the
damages and compensation to be paid at five thousand
dollars.
It was then adjudged that the Telegraph Company
should have the right of way prayed for. There were
specific details of the manner of acquisition and use; and
explicit description of the location, with provisions for
changes in location according to the necessities of the
Railroad Company.
On March 8, 1916, the Telegraph Company paid into
the court the amount of the award and costs.
The Railroad Company prosecuted error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The court after an elaborate consideration of th7 case said that'it inferred " fro-i thp record
(the specific question has not been argued) that there are
comparatively. small fractions of the desired right of way
as to which it may be reasonably claimed that .the interference with the railroad use is too serious to permit condemnation." It was intimated, however, that "an award

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

of damages" might "meet the case ", but that it might be
that another telegraph line could not be so placed as not
to substantially obstruct the use by the Railroad Company
of its right of way for some railroad puipose. The court,
therefore, concluded that the verdict of the jury and the
judgment entered thereon must be set aside, and the case
remanded for new trial upon the question of amount of
compensation, and for such further hearing and decision
upon the question of the forbidden interference in specific
places as the opinion indicated might be open. 249 Fed.
385. As we construe the decision there ws a reversal
not only on the question of damages but on the question
of the interference by the easement petitioned for with
the use by"the railroad of ,its right of way. And hence
there might be brought into consideration a conflict between the uses,, the resolution of which would determine
for or against the right of the Telegraph Company under
the law of 1898.
On March 14, 1916, the legislature of the State repealed the Act of March, 1898.'
'"An Act to protect Railroad Companies in the use and enjoyment,
of their rights of way by forbidding the condemnation thereof for
other purposes.
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky:
"§ 1. That no part of the right of way of any railroad company, or any interest or easement therein, shall be taken by any
condemnation proceedings, or without the consent of such railroad
company, for the use or occupancy of any part of such right of way,
on, over, and along such right of way longitudinally, by any telegraph, telephone, electric light, power, or other wire company, with
its poles, cables, wires, conduits, or other fixtures; provided, that
nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing any such wire
company from obtaining the right to cross the right of way of a
railroad company, under existing laws in such manner as not, to
interfere with the ordinary use or ordinary travel and traffic of sich
railroad company's railroad.
"§ 2. That all acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act be
and the same are hereby repealed,"

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. L. & N. R. R. CO.

17

Opinion of the Court.
. Upon the return of the case to the District Court, the
Railroad Company, in an amended answer, pleaded the
Act of March 14, 1916, and moved a dismissal*of the petition upon the ground that that act had withdrawn the
right to prosecute it. To this answer the Telegraph Company replied that the Act of March 14, 1916, did not
affect the litigation, and, that if it be given that effect, it
would be void under the constitution of the State because
of legislative interference with "proceedings pending in
a judicial tribunal ". And, further, that under a proper
construction of the statutes of the State the present proceedings were not affected by them, and if so applied they
would violate the constitution of the State and the Fifth
and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States.
The court denied the motion to dismiss the petition, deciding that the repealing act, taken in connection with
§ 465 2 was not intended to affect pending cases, and that
if so intended, the repealing act was void under the constiiution of the State which precludes interference with
judicial proceedings, the courts having the "exclusive
right to determine the law of existing cases."
The ruling was contrary to that subsequently made by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, the latter court holding,
reversing the District Court's action in refusing to dissolve the injunction that had been granted against the
Railroad Company in a suit brought for that purpose,
tnatwithin the meaning of § 465 the Telegraph Company
had not acquired any vested right when the repealing act
was passed and that, therefore, that act terminated the
right of eminent domain conferred upon the Telegraph
13.

Section 465. "No new law shall be construed to repeal a former
law as to . . . any right accrued or claim arising under the [a]
former law, or in afiy way whatever to affect
any right
accrued or claim arising before the new law takes effect..
'"
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Company by the law of 1898. A petition for rehearing
was denied. 268 Fed. 4, 13.1
The District Court, no doubt regarding the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals as an authoritative construction of the statutes (repealing act and § 465), on motion
of the Railroad Company, notwithstanding the invocation
of the constitution of Kentucky and the Constitution of
the United States by the Telegraph Company, reversed its
former ruling, and dismissed the petition.
From this statement of the case it is clear that the constitutionality of the repealing act is the determining question in the case-its "storm-center," to use the words of
counsel, and to the ruling of the court sustaining its constitutionality this writ of error is directed. And it was not
introduced into the cause until the cause was sent back
tor a new trial on all of the issues by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
The assignments of error of the Telegraph Company
are in effect repetition of its contentions in the District
Court (and we may say of its contentions in the Circuit
Court of Appeals) and are all based on the asserted immutability of the judgment of the District Court, the effect of the award of damages and the payment of the
latter into court. The contentions repel almost immediately upon their utterance. To yield to them would
practically take away the virtue of an appeal, give it right
and procedure but accord it only partial effect. The present case illustrates this. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the judgment of the District Court in favor of
the Telegraph Company, not only because of errors in
amount of the award but because of errors in the judg'The injunction suit was brought to restrain the Railroad Company from disturbing the Telegraph Company's occupancy of the
right of way of the Railroad Company pending this proceeding. The
injunction was granted February 7, 1913, 201 Fed. 946. The order
granting it was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 207 Fed. 1.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
13.

19.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of conditions essential to a grant of the easement.
249 Fed. 385. There was something more, therefore,
to be inquired into upon the return of the case to the
District Court than the amount of compensation to be
paid, as we have pointed out.
The Telegraph Company insists that § 465 of the Kentucky Statutes precludes the application of the Act of
March 14, 1916, to the case, and such was the original
view. We can not accede to it. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that no right had accrued or claim
arisen under the judgment of the District Court within
the meaning of § 465. Besides, as also pointed out. by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, the Act of March 14, 1916,
is general and absolute. It takes away the power to condemn the .right of way of a railroad company by telegraph companies and it does not save proceedings commenced before its applicable date. Such reservation is
usual, if intended (Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398)
and is illustrated by Pannell v. Louisville Tobacco Warehouse Co., 113 Ky. 630.
The contention that if the repealing act be construed
to apply to the pending litigation it is an interference by
the legislature with judic~al proceedings and, therefore,
void under the constitution of the State, challenges to
particular attention. It is sustained, the Company asserts, by the decisions of the State.
The principle relied upon was first expressed in Gaines
v. Gaines' Executor, 9 B. Mon. 295,'301. We quote from
a marginal note, using it as the expression of the principle
of the case, as follows: "The Legislature have no power
where a controversy is pending between individuals growing out of their respective rights, to so act as to cast off
the rights of one of the parties and his remedy likewise . . ." It is expressed in another case as follows:
"If the Legislature, during the pendency of litigation,
were tb pass an act hawing a retroactive effect in favor of
-

*9544?-23--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

one of the litigants, it would be an invasion by one independent department of the government of another, and,
therefore, unconstitutional." Marion County v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 91 Ky. 388; Thweatt v. Bank
of Hopkinsville, 81 Ky. 1. In another case it.is succinctly
said that legislation penaing suit cannot affect rights
which existed before suit and upon which suit was
brought. Turner v. Town of Pewee Valley, 100 Ky. 288.
We have considered the cases and their incidents. It is
not necessary to review them. There is a marked distinction between them and the case at bar. They all concerned the litigation of private rights and relations, and
legislation which attempted to change those rights and
relations by changing the conditions upon which they
depended. The legislation in the case at bar has different
purpose. It is directed to that which is conceived to concern the public interest; an exertion of power in the public interest of which the companies are the instruments
or agents. It is not, therefore, within the principle of the
cases cited against it. And, as we have seen, no rights
had so far vested in the Telegraph Company as to preclude a change of policy or legislation which affected it.
Of'the effect of a reversal on appeal of a judgment and
award in a condemnation proceeding and a repealing act,
Treacy v. Elizabethtown, Lexington & Big Sandy R. R.
Co.,-85 Ky. 270, is of pertinent reference. It is there held
that if a judgment in condemnation proceedings be reversed on appeal (the conditions requisite to legal condemnation of the land not having been established) the
case upon reversal stands upon the petition or application
alone, and the proceedings being thus in fieri the law
under which they were instituted could be repealed, and
if repealed, the subsequent proceedings must be under the
new law. The principle was announced to sustaihi the
repeal of the charter of a railroad company under which
upon the rendition of the verdict assessing damages for

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
13.

21

Opinion of the Court.

the property taken the railroad had the right to enter
upon the land and construct its road, and upon payment
or tender of payment was clothed with title to the property. And it was said, "The State has the right to say
on what terms it will allow its right of eminent domain
to be exercised, so long as any thing remains to be done
by the corporation in order to complete the condemnation
of the land." And necessarily, we may add, the State has
a right to say upon what property or to what extent the
right of eminent domain shall be exercised. The base
seems a complete answer to the contentions of the Telegraph Company. See also Pannell v. Louisville Tobacco
Warehouse Co., 113 Ky. 630; Commonwealth v. Ewald
Iron Co., 153 Ky..1 - 1 'Lewis on Eminent Domain, 3rd
ed., § 380; Cooley' 66nstitutional Limitations, 6th ed.,
pp. 143, 343; Endlich on Interpretation of Statutes,
§§ 480-486.
Cases in which it is decided that upon payment or tender of the award of damages the condemning company
has a right to take possession of the land it seeks to condemn are not inconsistent with Tt'eacy v. Elizabethtown,
Lexington & Big Sandy kR. R. Co., supra. In that case
there was not only under the railroad's charter a right
of entry, but upon payment or tender of payment of the
damages awarded the actual title could have been acquired and yet the repealing statute was given effect
because the conditions of condemnation had not been
established.
The same comment is applicable to § 7 of the Act of
1898 .which provides that telegraph companies upon the
payment of the award may enter upon the land they
seek to condemn. The Telegraph Company in the
.present case was not put to exercise the privilege. It had
possession having received it under the contract with the
Railroad Company. The cntract having expired the
Telegraph Company was ptit to confirm the possession

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

and fix it as a right. The accomplishment of this the repealing act prevented.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that as the State could
have withheld the power from telegraph companies to
condemn the right of way of railroad companies, the State
could withdraw the power before its exercise, and it could
not be exercised before the conditions of condemnation
were established and adjudicated, and this not preliminarily or dependently, but in final and unreviewable determination. To this situation the condemnatiol} in the
present case had not attained. The grant of power to the
Telegraph Company, therefore, was subject to legislative
control, and the Act of March 14, 1916, was not an "interference by the Legislature with judicial proceedings
in court" and does not offend the Fifth or Fourteenth
Amendments.
Judgment affirmed.

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued January 13, 16, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. An agreement in a drover's railroad pass, made pursuant to a
tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and conditioning his right to recover for personal injuries upon the giving
of a written notice of claim, within thirty days after injury, to
the general manager of the carrier upon whose line the accident
occurs, is valid, at least where his injuries do not disable him from
complying with tI~e condition. P. 24.
2. Actual knowledge on the part of the railroad's employees is no
excuse for not giving the notice. P. 24.
3. The action of Congress in fixing not less than 90 days for giving
notice of claims in respect of goods (Cummins Amendment, March

