OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U.S.

A quotation from the opinion of the court in Rassmuzsen v. United States, 197 U. S. 516, 520, is apposite: "In Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S.138, the question
was whether the Sixth Amendment was controlling upon
Congress in legislating for the Philippine Islands. Applying the principles which caused a majority of the
judges who concurred in Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244,
to think that the uniformity clause of the Constitution
was inapplicable to Porto Rico, and following the ruling
announced in Hawaiiv. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, it was
decided that, whilst by the treaty with Spain the Philippine Islands had come under the sovereignty of the
United States and were subject to its control as a dependency or possession, those Islands had not been incorporated into the United States as a part thereof, and
therefore Congress, in legislating concerning thefn, was
subject only to the provisions of the Constitution applicable to territory occupying that relation."
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

BANK OF JASPER v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
ROME, GEORGIA.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF JASPER, FLORIDA, v.
STATE BANK OF ROME, GEORGIA.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF JASPER, FLORIDA, v.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF ROME, GEORGIA.
BANK OF JASPER v. STATE BANK OF ROME,
GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 76, 73, 74, 77.

Argued January 12, 1922.-Decided February
27, 1922.

1. Under the law of Florida, an appeal to the State Supreme Court,
taken solely to review an interlocutory order overruling a motion

BANK OF JASPER v. FIRST NAT. BANK.
112.

113

Counsel for Parties.

to quash a pretended service by publication for want of jurisdiction, does not operate as a general appearance. P. 117.
2. By an arrangement between a corporation, it agent and a bank,
purchasers of the corporation's shares were allowed to discount
their notes at the bank, the resulting credits were transferred by
the bank to the account of the agent in payment for the shares,
and negotiable certificates of deposit were issued by the bank to
the" agent. Held that the certificates of deposit did not represent
funds in the bank which as res could sustain service by publication
upon a nonresident purchaser of the certificates in suits brought
by, the shareholders in the state court against such purchaser, the
bank, the vendor corporation and its agent to have the proceeds of
the notes impressed with a trust in plaintiffs' favor and annul
their purchases and notes and the certificates on the ground of
fraud in selling the shares; and that judgments based on such
service, were void. P. 118.
264 Fed. 83, affirmed.

These were actions in the District Court for the Southern District of Florida, brought by the present respondents, respectively, as indorsees of certificates of deposit issued by the respective petitioners. The petitioners
pleaded res judicata,based on judgments rendered by the
Florida courts in suits to which it had been sought to
make the respondents parties through service by publication. The District Court held the service valid and the
judgments conclusive; but the Circuit Court of Appeals
held otherwise, and its judgments, reversing those of the
District Court, are here by certiorari.
Mr. F. P. Fleming, with whom Mr. C. Seaton Fleming

was on the briefs, for petitioner in Nos. 76 and 77.
Mr. William Wade Hampton, for petitioner in Nos. 73
and 74, submitted. Mr. Hilton S. Hampton and Mr. S. S.
Sanford were also on the briefs.
Mr. Henry C. Clark and Mr. W. E. Kay, with whom
Mr. J. L. Doggett and Mr. L. A. Dean were on the briefs,

for respondents,I

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
These cases-were argued and submitted together. They
involve the same questions of law and the essential facts
are the same in each. Reference will, therefore, be made
only to No. 76.
The First National Bank of Rome, Georgia, endorsee
of five certificates of deposit made by the Bank of Jasper,
a Florida corporation, sued the maker at law in the federal
court for the Southern District of that State. The defendant pleaded in bar seven decrees of the Circuit Court
for Hamilton County, Florida,' entered in suits in which
the Georgia bank had been named as one of the respondents. The plaintiff replied that the suits in which these
decrees were entered were in personam; that it was and
is a noil-resident of Florida, had not been found within
the State, and had not appeared in those suits except
specially to move to quash the pretended constructive
service upon it by publication; and that the decrees are
as to it of no legal effect. The District Court sustained
the plea of res judicata and entered judgment for defendant. The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. See First National Bank of Rome v. First
-National Bank of Jasper, 264 Fed. 83. The case comes
here on writ of certiorari. 254 U. S. 622. Whether on
the -facts hereinafter set forth the state court acquired
jurisdiction and the legal effect of the decrees are the
matters presented for our consideration.
The Rome Insurance Company of Georgia wished to
raise capital by selling shares of its stock. To aid it in so
doing the American Bank and Trust Company, also of
Rome, was appointed- agent or trustee. These two companies selected Jasper, Florida, as the field' of operations
for the stock selling campaign; and they secured the
Bank of Jasper as an ally. Then, to facilitate sales the

BANK OF JASPER v. FIRST NAT.BANK.
112.

115

Opinion of the Court.

three devised the following plan: Purchasers of the stock
were enabled to discount at the Jasper bank their one
year n6tes for an amount equal to the purchase price,
giving the stock as collateral; and the American Company
as trustee for the Insurance Company agreed to deposit
with the Jasper bank an amount equal to each discount,
taking that bank's negotiable certificate of deposit in the
usual form, payable in one year with interest at four per
cent. Thus the stock purchased was paid for; the Jasper
bank made discounts and received deposits; the Insurance
Company raised capital and had it paid up-all without
anybody parting with a cent in cash. Under this arrangeinent many citizens of Jasper bought stock in the Insurance Company. In time their notes, and likewise the
corresponding certificates of deposit, matured. The purchasers of the stock discovered that it was worthless, and
that they had been defrauded; the Bank of Jasper that it,
also, had been defrauded and that its certificates of deposit had been transferred to the First National Bank of
Rome.. There was default on the certificates of deposit;
and the First National Bank brought this action against
the Bank of Jasper in the federal District Court. But
a few days before it did so, each purchaser of stock had
filed a bill in equity in the state Circuit Court against the
Jasper bank and the three Rome corporations. It is the
final decrees entered in these suits eighteen months later
which are pleaded in bar of this action on the certificates
of deposit.
Each bill recited, in substance, the above facts and
alleged that the note given by the complainant was in the
hands of the Jasper bank, that the proceeds [of the discount] were deposited with it, that the certificate of deposit issued to the American Company covers such proceeds, and that they have ever since remained in the bank.
The. bill prayed that these proceeds be impressed with a
trust in favor of the complainant; that the First National
95440

23-I

OCTOBER TERM, 1921
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Bank of Rome be declared not to have any interest therein; that the certificate of deposit, the note and the contract to purchase the stock be declared void; that the
American Company, the Insurance Company and the Jasper bank be restrained from bringing suit against the complainant; that the Jasper bank be restrained from making
any payment to the First National Bank out of the proceeds of the complainant's note; and that the latter bank
be restrained from withdrawing any part of such proceeds.
None of the three Rome corporations was domiciled or
found in the State of Florida. Constructive service by
publication in a newspaper was made under the Florida
law. General Statutes, ยง 1866. Then the three corporations entered their "appearance specially, solely and
only for the purpose" of moving to quash the service.
The motion was overruled; the defendants were given
time to plead, but did not do so; and again, appearing
"specially, solely and only" for that purpose, entered
their appeal to the Supreme Court of Florida from the
order overruling the motion to quash the pretended service by publication. And also appearing "specially, solely
and only ". for that purpose, they applied to the Circuit
Court for an order fixing the terms of the supersedeas on
the appeal. That the notice of this application given
counsel for complainant "shall in no sense operate as a
general appearance" was stipulated by them; and, thereupon, the order of suparsedeas was made and the required
bond given. It was suggested in the Supreme Court that
the appeal operated as a general appearance and, therefore, rendered the question submitted moot; but the court
did not pass upon this objection. It declared that "the
purpose of the statute authorizing constructive service
by publication is to notify non-residents of the pending
suit [in equity] so that they may, if they care to do so,
come into the case, and if the statute be followed, there is
no right in the non-resident to quash this notice; he has

BANK OF JASPER v.- FIRST NAT. BANK.
112.

117

Opinion of the Court.

his right if not waived, to object should the court thereafter commit an error against him." And it affirmed the
order of the lower court. Rome Insurance Co. v. Corbett
66 Fla. 438.
The three Rome corporations took no further part in
the suits in the state courts. But in the Circuit Court a
decree pro confesso was entered as against all the respondents, which declared that the sale and purchase of the
stock was void; that the proceeds of the complainant's
note "included in said certificate of deposit No. 319 now
held by the First National Bank of Rome are hereby decreed to be impressed with a trust in favor of the complainant and the same are adjudged to belong to him ";
that the Bank of Jasper be enjoined from paying any part
of these proceeds to the First National Bank; and that
the certificate of deposit "in so far as it covers and includes the proceeds derived from the said note " was void.
The Bank of Jasper insists that these decrees are res judicata of its alleged liability to the First National Bank on
the certificates of deposit, first, because" they are valid
judgments in personam against the latter bank; and;
secondly, because the certificates of deposit represent the
proceeds of the notes, and these proceeds were a res within
the jurisdiction of the court, and there was thus jurisdiction in rem to adjudicate the alleged liability on the
certificates of deposit.
The contention 'that the decrees constitute personal
judgments against the First National Bank rests upon the
assertion that under the law of Florida an appeal operates
necessarily as a general appearance, although the appeal
is taken solely from an interlocutory order asserting jurisdiction, and, although in taking it, the appellant declares
in terms that his appearance is special, and solely for the
purpose of the appeal. It may be assumed that if such
were the settled law of Florida, it would be accepted by
-this court as controlling. York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15.
But our attention has not been called to any Florida

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

statute or 'rule of court or decision which so declares.
There is confessedly no statute or rule of court to that
effect; and none of the cases relied upon support the
proposition that such is the common law of Florida. This
contention seems to have been made in the equity suits
here under consideration; but the Supreme Court did not
there pass- upon the question. Rome Insurance Co. v.
Corbett, supra, p. 439. It is clear that in Florida an
appearance entered in the trial court specially for the purpose of moving to quash a summons does not operate as a
general appearance. Standley v. Arnow, 13 Fla. 361, 368;
but that if, after such a motion is made and overruled, the
cause proceeds to final decree, a defendant who prosecutes
an appeal therefrom will be held to have appeared generally. The appeal here in question was not from a final
decree. It was from an interlocutory order overruling
the objection to the jurisdiction. The right to review an
interlocutory' order by a separate appeal is conferred
bioadly by ยง 1908 of the General Statutes of Florida;
and there is nothing to indicate that the right does not
extend to .orders concerning jurisdiction. It certainly
may not be assumed that the legislature intended that
exercise of the right conferred should operate as a general
appearance and thus render moot a consideration of the
ruling alone sought to be reviewed. Moreover, in none of
the cases from the Supreme Court of Florida relied upon
was it shown that the appearance on appeal was in terms
special and limited to the review of the question of jurisdiction:'
The contention that the proceeds of the discounts of
the notes constitute a res within. the State, of which
'Tunno v. Robert, 16 Fla. 738, 751; Shrader v. Shrader, 36 Fla.
502, 518; Wylly v. Sanford Loan & Trust Co., 44 Fla. 818, 820;
Drew Lumber Co. v. Walter, 45 Fla. 252, 255; Rumeli v. Tampa,
48 Fla. 112, 114; Hayman v. Weil, 53 Fla. 127, 132; Barwick v.
Rouse, 53 Fla. 643, 646; Busard v. Houston, 65 Fla. 479, 482; Henry
v. Spitler, 67 Fla. 146, 150.

BANK OF JASPER v. FIRST NAT. BANK.
112.

119

Opinion of the Court.

the certificates of deposit were merely evidence, rests upon
a misapprehension. No specific fund was ever set apart
by the Jasper bank. Its discounts resulted in general
credits by the bank to the makers of the notes. These
credits were applied in making payment for their stock.
The payment was made by transferring to the credit of
the American Company the-amount which stood to the
credit of the makers of the notes. The credits-called deposits-so transferred became an indebtedness of the Jasper bank to the American Company. That indebtedness,
if it had rested in open account, would have been property
of the creditor within the State of Florida. In an appropriate proceeding it might have been reached to satisfy
a claim against its owner. Pennington v. Fourth NationalBank, 243 U. S.269. But the suits in the state court
were not proceedings of that character. In them the complainant asserted that, by reason of the fraud alleged, the
Jasper bank was indebted not to any of its corespondents,
but to the complainant. Moreover, there was no indebtedness on open account to any of the Georgia corporations; for this account had been closed by giving certificates of deposit; and these had been transferred to the
First National Bank. Such certificates are merely promissory notes of the Jasper bank, payable like unsecured
notes of individuals, out of general assets. Like other
notes they are negotiable and are payable only upon surrender of the instrument properly endorsed. There is
not even an allegation either that the transfer to the
First Nktional Bank had been made after maturity of the
certificates or that the endorsee took them with notice of
the fraud.
As neither the certificates of deposit nor the holder
thereof were within the State of Florida, its courts could
not-in the absence of consent-acquire jurisdiction to
determine the liability of maker to holder.
Affirmed.

