OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

borders of the State. These estates at the time the bill
was filed remained open and unsettled. Under such circumstances it would be doing violence to the purpose and
provisions of § 57 to hold that the mere physical presence
of the notes in New York, complainant having seen fit to
take them there, made them personal property of that
localized character lawfully within the Southern District
of New York which would justify foreign service upon a
non-resident and bring him or her to the local jurisdiction
to contest title to the notes.
While the District Court put its decision upon different
grounds, we are of opinion that it rightly held that a case
for foreign service was not made out, and 'did not err in
setting aside the service, and dismissing the bill.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in the result

SCHAFF, AS RECEIVER OF THE MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY, v. J. C.
FAMECHON COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 91.

Argued January 16, 1922.--Decided February 27; 1922.

A decision of a state court, denying a carrier's right to make a charge
for refrigerator cars not provided for in tariffs filed at the stations
where the shipments originated, and based wholly on an interpretation of the Interstate Commerce Act and the rule of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, without questioning their validity, does n~t
deny the validity of an authority exercised under the United States
and is therefore not reviewable by writ of error under § 237, Jud.
Code, as amended. P. 80.
Writ of error to review 145 Minn. 108, dismissed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Minnesota, which denied the right of a carrier to recover
charges for refrigerator cars employed in interstate shipments.

SCHAFF v. FAMECHON CO.
76.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiff in-error.
The court below held Circular No. 12, Western Trunk
Lines, which was on file at the originating stations, not
applicable to shipments destined by Southwestern Lines
to Oklahoma and Texas, unless made applicable by Southwestern Lines Tariff, and that this tariff, while adopting
Circular No. 12 by reference, was not valid as to the
shipments in question because not filed at stations where
those shipments originated.
The judgment 'is reviewable by writ of error. Act of
September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726; Northern Pacific Ry. Co.
v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135; Alabama & Vicksburg
Ry. Co. v. Journey, 257 U. S. 111; Buck v. Colbath, 3
Wall. 334. Distinguishing, New York Central & Hudson
River R. R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co., 256 U. S. 406;
Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Nichols & Co.,
256 U. S. 540; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247
U. S. 477, 481; Ireland v. WoQds, 246 U. S. 323, 328;
Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher,227 U. S.-445,450. This
case meets the requirement laid down in United States v.
Lynch, 137 U. S.280, 285, and Baltimore & PotomacR. R.
Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S.210.
In the Journey Case, supra, the court could not have
intended, without discussion, to hold that there was no
jurisdiction on writ of error, for, like the North Dakota
Case, supra, it clearly involved the validity of an authority exercised under the United States. As pointed out in
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282,
some cases may be subject both to writ of error and certiorari, under Jud. Code, § 237. It is difficult to conceive
a case where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority egercised under, the United
States, the decision being against their validity (in which
case writ of error lies under the first clause of § 237),
which does not also fall under the class of cases described
in the last clause of that section (in which case certiorari
is the proper writ). Such cases are subject to both writs.

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Cases of writ of error or appeal from the District of
Columbia and the Territories under the Act of March 3,
1885, and under § 250, Jud. Code, are in point as defining
the cases where writ of error lies under the Act of 1916.
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543; McLean v. Denver &
Rio Qrande R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 47; Smoot v. Heyl,
227 U. S. 518, 522.
As to the merits: The court, construing the Interstate
Commerce Act, held it required filing of every tariff at the
shipping station and that a tariff was invalid for any purpose if not so filed, though otherwise duly filed and published as required by the act.
The contrary rule has been repeatedly decided by this
court. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co. v. Chicago &
Erie R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 371; American Express Co. v.
U. S. Horse Shoe Co., 244 U. S. 58; Illinois Central R. R.
Co. v. Henderson Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 441; Texas &
PacificRy. Co. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204 U. S. 449.
How far one circular or tariff may be incorporated into
another by reference is a question for the Interstate Commerce Commission, and its discretion is controlling. As
to this particular tariff, the Commission, after full hearings, has held that the car rental charge is properly referred to and therefore a part of the Southwestern Lines
Tariff. Hale-Halsell Grocery Co. v. Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co., 42 I. C. C. 491; 45 I. C. C. 523.
Mr. Charles Burke Elliott, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error, as receiver of the Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Railway Company, brought suit against J. C.
Famechon Company, in the Municipal Court of the City
of Minneapolis, to recover for charges for rental of re-

SCHAFF v. FAMECHON CO.
76.

Opinion of the Court.

frigerator cars used in shipping potatoes in 1914 and 1915
from various points in Minnesota over connecting lines
to points in Oklahoma and Texas. The initial carriers
were the Northern Pacific and Great Northern Railways,
and the terminal carrier the Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Railway Company, for which plaintiff in error was receiver. The terminal carrier received the potatoes, delivered them at their destinations, and collected from the
shipper in excess of the regular line haul rate the sum of
five dollars for the use of each refrigerator car in four
shipments in 1915. Upon one refrigerator car, shipped in
1914, the excess was not collected. Famechon Company
made claim against the railway company for an overcharge of five dollars on each of the four shipments so
made in 1915. The railway company refunded twenty
dollars to Famechon Company, for which sum the receiver
brought suit, claiming the refund was made by mistake
and t4rough a misunderstanding of the tariff and schedules; he also brought suit to ,recover five dollars rental for
the refrigerator car shipped in 1914.
Famechon Company, in its answer, put in issue the allegations of the complaint and pleaded a counterclaim for
the rental paid on two cars shipped in 1916. In the Municipal Court of Minneapolis defendant in error had judgment for ten dollars with interest and costs, and the receiver for the railway company appealed to the Supreme.
Court of Minnesota, which affirmed the judgment. 145
Minn. 108. A writ of error was allowed bringing the case
to this court.
From the facts found by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, and shown by evidence and stipulation, it appears
that the established freight rate on potatoes in carloads
from points of origin to points of destination, named in
the pleadings, was contained in tariffs known as "Southwestern Lines' Tariffs ". These tariffs were subject to the
"Southwestern Lines' Classifications, Exceptions and

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Rules Circulars." Neither such circular nor the Southwestern Lines' Tariffs was on file or published at any of
the stations of origin of shipment, but they were on file
in certain designated offices of the Northern Pacific and
Great Northern Railways in Minneapolis .andSt. Paul,
and at various points in other States: At the time the
shipmenlts were made, Western Trunk Line Circular No.
12, specifically referred to in Southwestern Lines' Classifications, Exceptions and Rules, was on file at the points
of origin of shipment and destination; and it was the only
tariff issued by any of the carriers participating in the
transportation of the shipments in question which contained a five-dollar rental provision for refrigerator cars;
that circular was printed and filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and contained a rule to the effect
that, when the shipper ordered a refrigerator or other
insulated car to be heated by him or to move without
heat, a charge of five dollars per car per trip would be
made for use of car whfich would accrue to the owner
thereof.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota recited the provisions
of § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 34 Stat. 586, requiring the filing of rates and charges with the Interstate
Commerce Commission and the posting thereof at stations, and the rule of the Interstate Commerce Commission, adopted June 2, 1908, requiring the filing of rates
and schedules, and held that the additional charges could
not be collected under that statute and rule because
neither the Sofithwestern Lines' Tariffs,-nor the Southwestern Lines' Classification, Exceptions and Rules circulars making reference to Circular No. 12 were on file
at the point of origin of shipment, and that there were
no tariffs on file at such points to which shippers could
refer to ascertain the rates of transportation.
The case is brought here by writ of error. We are of
opinion that we cannot acquire jurisdiction by that

SCHAFF v. FAMECHON CO.
76.

Opinion of the Court.

method under § 237 of the Judicial Code as amended by
the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. Counsel for plaintiff in error contends that a writ- of error is
the proper method of review because there was drawn
in question the validity of an authority exercised under
the United States, and that the effect of the State Supreme Court decision was to deny such validity. The argument is that the Interstate Commerce Act confers on
carriers the right to rec.eive the revenues defined in the
tariffs, .and is a command with penalties that carriers collect those revenues, and that, as the decision turns on the
issue directly raised, and necessarily involved, whether the
tariff was or was not vahd, there'was drawn in question
the validity of an authority exercised under the United
States; that the question really decided by the Supreme
Court of Minnesota was not the interpretation of the
tariff, nor the extent or nature of the rights clai'ned under
it, but the validity of a tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. But we cannot accept this contention.
We have recently had occasion to consider the meaning
of the phrase. "validity of an authority "-as used in § 237
of the Judicial Code as amended September 6, 1916. Jett
Brothers Distilling Co. v. Carrollton, 252 U. S. 1, 6, and
cases cited. We held that the validity of an authority was
*drawn in question when the power to create it is fairly
open to denial, and is denied. In that case we cited with
approval the same conclusion reached by this cdurt in its
opinion rendered by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in Baltimore
& Potomac R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S.210. We see
no occasion to depart from that definition of the phrase.
In the instant case the Supreme Court of Minnesota did
not question the federal power to enact the statute as to
rat~s with its requirements concerning the filing and posting thereof, nor the authority of the Interstate Commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

Commission to make the rule quoted in its opinion.
What the court did was to so interpret the statute and
rule as to render essential the filing of the tariffs at stations at the points of origin of shipment. Such interpretation, whether right or wrong, did not involve the validity of an authority exercised under the United States,
and the review in this court should have been sought by
a petition for writ of certiorari.
The writ of error must be
Dismissod
JOHN SIMMONS COMPANY v. GRIER BROTHERS
, COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 57.

Argued November 8, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. A bill of review is called for only after a final decree adjudicating upon the entire merits and leaving nothing further to be
done except the execution of it. P. 88.
2. An interlocutory decree may be modified or rescinded by the
court at any time before final decree. P. 88.
3. Whether a decree is final or interlocutory depends upon its essential purport and effect and not upon its characterization in pleadings. P. 89.
4. A decree in a suit for patent infringement and unfair competition,
dismissing the bill as to the former ground and granting a permanent injunction as to the latter, but leaving the case pending
for an accounting before a master, is interlocutory as an entirety,
permitting the plaintiff, if diligent, to seek a rehearing of the dismissal. P. 89. Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, and
Hill v. "Chicago& Ezvnston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52, distinguished.
5. A proceeding to reopen by rehearing or bill of review a decree
entered on a mandate of an appellate court should first be referred
to that tribunal. P. 91.
6. The fact that a party, to carry on his suit, moved execution of a
mandate directing a decree partly adverse to himself, after his
right of appeal was exhausted, did not make the resulting decree u
decree by consent. P. Q1

