CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. WHITNACK CO.
365.

369

Syllabus.

And applying this rule we held the bill of exceptions,
signed by the trial judge after expiration of the time
allowed by the rule of court, was no part of the record.
In the present' cause the term as extended had expired
before any action concerning the bill of exceptions was
taken by either court or counsel. In sifch circumstances
the court had no power to approve it unless this could be
conferred by mere consent of counsel. This they could
not do.
Consent of parties can not give jiurisdiction to courts of
the United States. Railway Co. v. Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322,
327. The policy of the law requires that litigation be terminated within a reasonable time and not piotracted at
the mere option of the parties. See United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S.55, 70. We think the better rule and
the one supported by former opinions of this court requires that billso, exceptions shall be signed" before the
trial court loses, jurisdiction of the cause by expiratibn
of the term or such time thereafter as may have been
duly prescribed. The certified .question is accordingly
answered in the affirmative..

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. C. C. 'WHITNACK PRODUCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI' TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEBRASKA.
No. 146. -Argued March 3, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.
1. When goods moving in interstate commerce upon a through bill
of lading are delivered in bad condition and the -evidence shows
that they Vere sound when received by the initial carrier but does
not 'affirmatively establish where the. loss, occurred, there is a
-common-law presumption, applicable under the Carmack Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

ment, against the delivering carrier, that the injury occurred on
the delivering carrier's line. P. 371.
2. There is no inconsistency between this rule and the provision of
the amendment making tho initial carrier also liable. P. 373.
104 Neb. 587, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Nebraska affirming a judgment against the present petitioner in an action by the respondent for damages to
goods in transitu.

Mr. IVymer Dressierfor petitioner.
There is no common-law presumption, applied in federal courts, that damage to an interstate shipment occurred on the line of the last carrier; on the contrary.
federal courts hold that, since the enactment of the Carmack Amendment making the initial carrier liable for the
entire transportation, all such presumptions heretofore
applied by state courts are superseded, and recovery
against a connecting carrier can only be had by affirmatively showing that it caused the damage. Boston &
3/Iaine R. R. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; Missouri, Kansas
& Texas Ry. Co. v. Harris, 234 U. S. 412, 420; Adams
Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Charleston &
Western CarolinaRy. Co. v. Varnville Furniture Co., 237
U. S. 597; Henderson v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.,
147 La. 647.
Liability of a carrier on account of interstate shipments
is to be determined by the laws of the United States, the
provisions of the bills of lading, and the connon law as
applied in federal courts. State laws and policies have
no application. New York CentralR. R. Co. v. Beaham,
242 U. S. 148; United Metals Selling Co. v. Pryor, 243
Fed. 91; Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241
U. S. 371.,

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. WHITNACK CO.
369.

371

Opinion of the Court.

The Carmack Amendment covered the whole field of
interstate commerce, and the remedy afforded is as much
in favor of the consignee as of the shipper or anyone else
who may be the lawful holder of the bill of lading.'
Mr. Henry H. Wilson, with whom Mr. Elmer J.
Burkett, Mr. Elmer W. Brown and Mr. Ralph P. Wilson
were on the"briefs, for respondent.
M .JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The respondent Produce Company recovered a judgment against petitioner, the delivering carrier, for damages to 'two carloads of apples transported during November, 1914, upon through bills of lading over connecting
lines from points in New York State to one in Nebraska.
The evidence tended to show that the apples were in good
condition when received by the initial carrier, but were
frozen when delivered at destination. Where the damage occurred was not shown.
Petitioner moved for a directed verdict claiming no
recovery could be had against it withou.t affirmative evidence that it caused the damage. Having denied this motion, the court instructed the. jury that there was a presumption of damage upon the line of the last carrier, and
the Supreme Court of Nebraska approved the charge.
The single question now. presented for con'ideration is
whether, since the Carmack Amendment, a presumption
arises that the injury occurred on the delivering carrier's
line, when goods moving in interstate commerce upon a
through bill of lading are delivered in bad condition and
the evidence shows'they were sound when receiv'ed by the
initial carrier but does not affirmatively establish where
the loss occurred.
It is established doctrine that the rights and liabilities
in respect of damage to goods moving in interstate com9544°-23------27

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 IT.S.

merce under through bills of lading depend upon acts of
Congress, agreements between the parties and commonlaw principles accepted and enforced in the federal courts.
New York Central& Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Beaham,
242 U. S. 148, 151. While this court has not expressly approved it, we think the common-law rule, supported both
by reason and authority, is correctly stated in § 1348,
Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed."A connecting carrier, who has completed the transportation and delivered the goods to the consignee in a damaged condition or deficient in quantity, will be held liable
in an action for the damage or deficiency, without proof
that it was occasioned by his fault, unless he can show
that he received them in the condition in which he has delivered them. The condition and quantity of the goods
when they were delivered to the first of the connecting
carriers, being shown, the presumption will arise that they
continued in that condition down to the time of their delivery to the carrier completing the transportation and
making the delivery to the consignee, and that the injury
or loss occurred while they were in his possession."
Some of the pertinent cases are collected in the note
below.'
ISmith v. Nfw York Central R. R. Co., 43 Barb. (N. Y.) 225;
Cote v. N. Y., N. H. &- H- R. R. Co., 182 Mass. 290; Laughlin v.
Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 28 Wis. 204; Phila.,Balt. & Wash.
R. R. Co. v. Diffendal, 109 Md. 494; Blumenthal v. Central R. R.
Co., 88 N. J. L. 254; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Naive, 112 Tenn.
239; Colbath v. Bangor & Aroostook R. R. Co., 105 Me. 379; Willett
v. Southern Ry. Co., 66 S. Car. 477.
The following cases hold that the presumption is not in conflict
with the Carmack*_A.mendment: Erisman v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. R.
Co., 180 Ia. 759; Glassman v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 166 Ia.
255; Mewborn & Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 170 N.
Car. 205; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Harrington, 44 Okla.
41; Eastover M.ule Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 99 S.
Car. 470,

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. v. WHITNACK CO.
369.

373

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner insisfs that this common-law rule conflicts with the Carmack Amendment to the Interstate
Commerce Act, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 695,1 which requires
issuance of a through bill of lading by initial carrier and
declares it liable for damage occurring anywhere along
the route, as'interpreted and applied by this court. But
we find no inconsistency between the amendment or any
other federal legislation and the challenged rule. Properly understood, Charleston & Western Carolina Ry. Co.
v. Varnville Furniture Co., 237 U. S. 597, especially relied
upon, gives no support to -the contrary view.
That cause involvedthe'South Carolina statute which
imposed a penalty of $50 upon the earrier for failure to
pay within forty days for damages suffered'by goods
transported in interstate commerce. The opinion expressly states, "The defendant contended that the law
imposing the penalty was invalid under the Act to Regulate Commerce, especially § 20, as amended by the Act of
June 29, 1906, known as the Carmack Amendment; "
refers to the penalty as "The only matter that we are
considering; " and points out that "The state law was
not contrived in aid of the policy of Congress, but to enforce a state policy differently conceived." As the Supreme Court of South Carolina sustained the act and per1 Carmack Amendment. "That any common carrier, railroad, or
transportation company receiving property for transportation from
a point in one State to a point in another State shall issue a receipt
or bill of lading therefor and shall be liable to the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury to such property caused by it or
by any common carrier, railroad, or transportation company to which
such property may be delivered or over whose line or lines such
property may pass, and no, contract, .receipt, rule, or regulation
shall exempt such common carrier, railroad, or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed: Provided, That nothing
in this section shall deprive any holder of such receipt or bill of
lading of any remedy of right of detion which he has under existing law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

374

Counsel for Parties.

258 U.S.

mitted recovery of the penalty, its judgment was necessarily reversed.
Here there is no question of conflict between a state
statute and any federal policy; and nothing in the words
of the amendment indicates a legislative purpose to abrogate the accepted common-law doctrine concerning presumption. The suggestion that by imposing additional
liability upon the initial carrier the amendment provides
an adequate remedy for shippers and thereby removes the
necessity for any presumption against the terminal one
and impliedly abrogates the rule, is unsound. There are
adequate reasons why shippers should have the benefit of
both; and we think Congress so intended.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.
LOUISVILLE

& NASHVILLE

RAILROAD

COM-

PANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 147. Argued March 3, 6, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.
The obligation of a land-grant-aided railroad to transport at reduced rates "troops" of the United States applies to the transportation of members of the Coast Guard when serving as part of
the Navy but not when serving under the Treasury. P. 375.
55 Ct. Clms. 45, modified and affirmed.

APPEAL from. a judgment rejecting a claim against the
Government for railway transportation.
Mr. Benjamin Carter for appellant.
M1r. Solicitor General Beclc and Mr. William C. Herron, for the United States, submitted.

