6

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

258 U. S.

MACARTHUR BROTHERS COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 97. Argued January 20. 1922.--Decided February 27, 1922.
Claimant contracted with the Government to construct a portion
of a canal, both parties assuming that part of the work could be
done "in the dry" and the specifications so providing; but, owing
to leakage through an adjacent pier constructed by a different
contractor, all the work had to be done "in the wet" at increased
cost. The conditions were as open to claimant as to the Government; claimant was expected to and did visit the site and inform
itself before making its bid; and its contract provided that the
quantities in the specifications were approximate only, that no
claim should be made against the United States on account of any
excess or deficiency, absolute or relative, thereof, nor any allowance be made for failure of the contractor to estimate the difficulties correctly, that the expense of coffer dams, pumping plant and
pumping to unwater all areas to be worked "in the dry" should
be an incident of the general work and no special payment be made
therefor, and that the United States assumed no liability whatsoever for loss of property or time due to failure of any part of the
coffer dams, dikes or pumping plant. Held, that there was no misrepresentation by the United States that any part of the work could
be done "in the dry" and that claimant could not recover. P. 9.
55 Ct. Clms. 181, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's second amended petition upon demurrer.

Ir. William B. King, with whom Mr. George A. King,
Mr. William E. Harvey and Mr. George R. Shields were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood were on
the brief, for the United States.

MAcARTHUR BROS. CO. v,UNITED STATES.
6.

7

Opinion of the Court.

MR.'

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action to recover damages for a breach of
contract growing out of an alleged misrepresentation.
The appellant essayed recovery upon a petition to
which a demurrer was sustained; it then filed an amended
petition which was subjected to a like disposition, and
then a second amended petition. Demurrer by the Government being sustained to that, appellant declined to
imend again, and judgment was entered dismissing the
3etition. From the ruling this appeal is prosecuted.
The last petition is, as the others were, a very volumiious paper. It is enough to say that it sets forth a cause
)f action based upon a contract entered into by appellant with the United States, September 23, 1910, for the
construction of the west end of the new canal at Sault
Ste. Marie, Michigan, which was authorized by the River
and Harbor Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2509, 34 Stat. 1073,
1098. The petition details the specifications, but the misrepresentation is alleged to be that they and the contract
represented that a portion of the work would be done in
the "dry" and a portion in the "wet ", whereas it was
impossible to do any of the work in the "dry ", and it
was all done in the "wet" at a cost greatly exceeding
what it would have been had it been done the other way.
For the purposes of permitting the work to be done in
the dry, it was necessary to construct certain cofferdams
and this Was especially provided for by the specifications.
One of the cofferdams was known as the West Cofferdam,
and was to be built as a contract item and connected the
rock spoil bank (extending along the north side of the
work) with the old North West Pier. The latter pier
was constructed by another contractor partly before and
partly after the date the Company entered into its contract with the United States. The Company was a bidder

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

for the work the specifications of which were published
and accessible. When the contract in suit was entered
into, that prior contract was in progress but not completed, and was not completed until after the Company
had begun work on its contract.
The Company, it alleges, made all reasonable inquiries
and investigations upon the site of the contract between
the date of advertisement and the date of submitting its
bid, and, by its president and chief engineer, inspected the
conditions. The work under the previous contract of
March 23, 1908, was then in progress.
The Company estimated and believed, as it had a right
to do, is its allegation, that the specifications of that contract had been and were being duly and properly performed. If they had been so perfoemed, is the further
allegation, the Company would have been able to perform,
under its own contract in the dry, such portions of the
work as were required by the contract to be done in the
dry.
It was only during the progress of the work that the
Company discovered that the previous contract had not
been carried out and that the work was defective. In consequence, extraordinary and expensive means had to be
resorted to for a continuance of the Work, and the
work was greatly delayed beyond the time that the Company would have had t,) take if the conditions had been
as shown by the specifications of the previous contract
and had the work been performed by the previous contractor according to the specifications.
This expense continued until July 3, 1913, and the description as dry work in the specifications was, by reason
of the conditions existing at the site of the work, a misrepresentation of the character of the work to be done,
and induced on the part of the Company a lower bid than
would have been made if the conditions had been properly described.

MAcARTHUR BROS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
6.

9

Opinion of tiie Court.

Owiag to the leakage coming through the old North
West Pier, it was not practicable for excavation to be
made in the dry. Notwithstanding, the engineer in charge
compelled the work to be done as contracted for, and the
Company sustained damages in the sum of $366,052.67
for which it prayed judgment.
It is contended that the circumstances detailed amount
to a representation by the United States that the work
could be done in the dry, but that it was impossible to
so perform it and that, therefore, the resulting expense
should be discharged by the Government and that the
Court of Claims erred in dismissing the petition.
To these assertions the Government opposes denials:
(1) There was no misrepresentation. (2) If there were
it is not available to the Company since it had investigated conditions before. entering into the contract. (3)
There was no misrepresentation as to the method by
which the excavating could be done.
In considering the opposing contentions there must be
taken into account certain provisions of the contract.
It is therein provided that "it is understood and agreed
that the quantities given in these specifications are, approximate only, and that no claim shall be made against
the United States on account of any excess or deficiency,
absolute or relative, in the same. No allowance will be
made for the failure of a bidder or of the contractor to
estimate correctly the difficulties attending the execution
of the work."
"It is expected that each bidder will, prior to submitting his bid, visit the site of the work, examine the local
conditions, inform himself as to the accessibility of the
work, ascertain the character of the material to be excavated, consult the plats on file at the U. S. Engineer
Office at Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., and obtain such available information as will assist him to make an intelligent
bid, and the failure of a bidder to make such examina-

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

tion may be held to be sufficient reason for rejecting his
bid."
"The contractor must construct and maintain all necessary cofferdams, furnish suitable and adequate pumping plant, and do all the pumping required to unwater
all areas where work is to be done in the dry, and no
special payment will be made therefor, the above work
and expense being considered as incident to the general
work covered by the contract prices of other items ..
"The United States assumes no responsibility whatsoever for loss of life, property or contractors' time, due
to the failure of any part of the cofferdams, dikes, or the
pumping plant."
In supplement of these provisions of the contract, the
following provision of the Company's proposal upon
which the contract was awarded is pertinent: "We
make this proposal with a full knowledge of the kind,
quantity, and quality of the plant, work and materials
required. . .
The repellent effect of those provisions and the contentions of the Company, would seem to need no comment, and the effect is reinforced by other considerations.
The contract of the Company was made September 23,
1910, and at that time, according to the averments of
the petition, work on the prior contract was in progress
and had been in progress two years. And it is averred
that the Company "made all reasonable inquiries and
investigations upon the site of the contract between the
date of advertisement, July 30, 1910, and the date of submitting its bid, August 29, 1910, by the President and
Chief Engineer of the company personally inspecting the
conditions. The work under the previous contract of
March 23, 1908, was then in progress and uncompleted."
The Company was undoubtedly impelled to this investigation by the requirement of its cortract to inform itself of the conditions and that no allowance would

MAcARTHUR BROS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
6.

11

Opinion of the Court.

be made for the failure to estimate correctly the difficulties attending the execution of the work. Its investigation may or may not have been adequate. It, however, took its chances on that. But in reality there was
no representation by the Government nor is it alleged
that the Government had knowledge of the conditions
or means of knowledge superior to the knowledge of the
Company. The latter acquired knowledge only by the
aid of divers as its work progressed. Such being the
situation, does not the case present one of misfortune
rather than misrepresentation? It is true that the Government's proposal was for a certain part of the work
to be done in the dry, but it made no representation of
the conditions that existed enabling it to be so done or
precluding it from being so done. The Company had no
relation with the Government through the other contract. The Company assumed that it had been properly
performed but the Government did nothing to create or
direct the assumption or induce confidence in it.
Such being the situation, the Company insists nevertheless, that the Government is liable and cites, among
other cases, Hollerbach v. United States, 233 U. S. 165;
Christie v. United States, 237 U. S.234; United States v.
Atlantic Dredging Co., 253 U. S. 1; United States v.
Smith, 256 U. S. 11, and insists that, though the asserted
representations of fact in the present case differ somewhat from those made in the cited cases, they are the
same in principle, and that the provisions in paragraph
23 that "the work required to complete this portion [the
portion of the proposed canal lying between certain
cross sections] of the canal shall be performed in the
dry "--was not only a mandate but was necessarily a representation that conditions would be encountered which
would enable the work to be done in the dry.
A systematic explanation of the cases would extend this
opinion to too great a length. They all declare the prin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the 4-ourt.

258 U. S.

ciple that the Government will be liable in the same circumstances that private individuals would be liable, but
necessarily, neither is liable if neither make representations.
In Hollerbach v. United States, 233 U. S. 165, 172, the
Government was held liable because "the specifications
spoke with certainty as to a part of the conditions to be
encountered by the claimants" and of those, it was said,
"the Government might be presumed to speak with
knowledge and authority."
In Christie v. United States, 237 U. S. 234, "there was"
(we quote from the opinion) "a deceptive representation
of the material, and it misled". The claimants in the
case, it was said, were forced to rely upon the information
furnished them by specifications which were untrue and
known to the officers of the United States to be untrue.
To the extent that they were untrue claimants recovered.
As to other conditions which might or might not have
been foreseen it was to be supposed, it was said, "that contemplation and judgment were exercised not only of certainties but of contingencies and allowance made for both
at the time of bidding, with provision in the bid".
In United States v. Atlantic Dredging Co., 253 U. S. 1,
the representations made by the Government were deceptive in that the test borings gave information to the
Government, not imparted to bidders, of materials more
difficult to excavate than those shown by the maps and
specifications. The case is instructive as it considers
other cases and the grounds of their decisions.
The elements which existed in each of the cited cases
are absent from the case.at bar. In the case at bar the
Government undertook a project and advertised for bids
for its performance. There was indication of the manner of performance but there was no knowledge of inpediments to performance, no misrepresentation of the
conditions, exaggeration of them nor concealment of them,

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
6.

13

Syllabus.

nor, indeed, knowledge of them. To hold the Government liable under such circumstances would make it insurer of the uniformity of all work and cast upon it responsibility for all of the conditions which a contractor
might encounter and make the cost of its projects always
an unknown quantity. It is hardly necessary to say that
the cost of a project often determines for or against its
undertaking.
Judgment affirmed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 259.

Argued January 4, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

A telegraph company whose line occupied part of a railroad right
of way under an expired contract with the railroad company obtained a judgment under Ky. Stats., ยง 4679c, adjudging it a right
to condemn the easement and fixing the damages, which it paid
into court; and, pending an appeal upon which the Circuit Court
of Appeals ordered a new trial on the right to include part of the
property affected and on the damages, an act was passed (Acts
.1916, c. 15) providing generally that no part of a railroad right
of way should be condemned, longitudinally, for a telegraph line,
and making no exception of pending cases. Held: (1) That the
telegraph company acquired no vested right through the judgment, and its right to condemn was repealed by the later act.
P. 18.
(2) Kentucky Stats., ยง 465, declaring against construing a new law
to repeal a former law as to rights accrued or claims arising under it, or in any way whatever to affect any right accrued or claim
arising before the new law takes effect, was inapplicable. P. 19.
(3) The withdrawal of the right of condemnation violated neither
the Fourteenth Amendment nor the provision of the Kentucky
constitution forbidding any interference by the legislature with
judicial proceedings in court. P. 19.
Affirmed.

