IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
Syllabus.

IRWIN v. WRIGHT, COUNTY TREASURER OF
MARICOPA COUNTY, STATE OF ARIZONA,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA.

No. 110.

Submitted .January 24, 1922.-Decided March 20, 19,22.

I. A suit to enjoin a public officer from enforcing a statute is personal and, in the absence of statutory provision for continuing it
against his successor, abates upon his death. P. 222. '
2. The Act of February 8, 1899, c.121, 30 Stat. 822, does not authorize such revivor against state officers, nor does § 461 of the Arizona
Civil Code. P. 222.
3.A suit against the members of a continuing public board, such as
a board of county supervisors in Arizona, does not abate when
members retire, and their successors may be substituted. P. 224.
4. Injunctive relief against collection of taxes unlawfully assessed on
lands in Arizona and against future assessments, may be obtained
in a suit against the Board of Supervisors of the county, in view
of their functions under the Arizona law. P. 226.
5.Lands entered within a reclamation project are not subject to
state taxation before the equitable title has passed to the entryman;
and that title does not pas4s until the conditions of reclamation and
payment of water charges (hie at time of final proof, imposed by
the amended Reclamation Act, have been fulfilled in addition to
the requirements of the Homestead Act. P. 226.
i. The Act of June 23, 1910, which permits entrymen within reclamation projects' who have proved full compliance with the Homestead, Law to assign in whole or in part to other persons, subject
to the requirements of the Reclamation Act, was designed to enable entrymen, whose entries were cut down to smaller farm units
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, to dispose of their
surphils to others who would pursue the requirements of the Reclamation Act, and did not operate to subject such entries to state
taxation. P. 231.
7. With respect to taxation, mining claims differ from other claims
to piblic lands, in that the mining interest, with the right to appropriate the mineral, arises from discovery and location and is independent of patent. T1.
231.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S

8. -Reclamation entries are not taxable by the State as "equities "
before the size of farm units has been fixed, or before the final
certificates have been issued to the entrymen by the Government.
P. 232.
Reversed. -

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing a
bill filed by the appellant, on behalf of himself and others
in like situation, to enjoin the assessment and collection
of state taxes on lands within a federal reclamation
project.

Mr. Patrick H. Loughran and fM1r. Ernest W. Lewis for
appellant. Mr. M. J. Dougherty, Air. G. A. Rodgers and
Mr. F. H. Swenson were also on the brief.
Mr.. James M. .Sheridan, Mr. Geo. D. Christy, Mr.
R. E. L. Shepherd and Mr. Joseph E. Noble for appellees.

MR. CHIEF JusTIcD TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.

,The appellant Irwin, a citizen of California, filed his
bill of complaint in the District Court against the Treasurer, the Assessor, the Attorney, the Sheriff, and the members. of the Board of Supervisors, of Maricopa County,
Arizona, citizens of Arizona. He' averred thAt he had an
interest, as a homestead entryman, under the General
Homestead Act of Congress of May 20, 1862, c. 75, 12 Stat.
392, and the Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32
Stat. 388, in.land included within the Salt River Reclamation project in Maricopa County, that he had-not fulfilled
many of the conditions by him to be performed before the
title to the land would vest in him, that meantime'it was
the property of the United States and not subject to taxation by a State, that he brought the suit in behalf, of
himself and also in behalf of other reclamation homestead
entrymen within the Salt River Project in Maricopa
County, and their assigns, similarly situated, desiring to

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

Opinion of-the Court.

avail themselves of the benefits of it, that the defendants
had levied and assessed taxes against these homestead
premises of plaintiff and the others in whose interest he
sues, for several years, and had demanded payment of"
them, and threatened to collect them by suit and sale of
such lands, and to assess th'em in the future, that such action wasin contravention of Article IV, § 3, of the Federal
Constitution, deprived him and his fellow entrymen of a
privilege and immunity secured to them as citizens of tle
United States, deprived them of prioperty without due
process of law, and denied them the equal protection of
the laws, all under the Fourteenth Amendment. He
prayed for an injunction against the defendants and their
successors in office and each of them as taxing authorities
of Maricopa County from further assessing said lands,
collecting the taxes already assessed, or' bringing suit to
collect the taxes as delinquent or to sell such int.rests.
After answer and reply, the case was heard on an agreed
statenrient of facts. The District Court dismissed the bill
on its merits without opinion. This is a direct appeal
from the District Court under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
as amended January 28, 1915, c. 22, 38 Stat. 804, because
the suit is one involving the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States.
On January 24th last, the cause was submitted to the
court by counsel for the appellant upon brief, counsel for
appellees not appearing. Since that day, a brief has been
filed on behalf of appellees and considered by the court.
When the case was called, counsel for appellant submitted
a motion, suggesting that all the appellees, county officers
of Maricopa County, Arizona, who at the time of bringing,
hearing and deciding the suit below were charged with the
duty of assessing and collecting taxes therein, had, with
exception of the sheriff and one of the three members of
the Board of Supervisors, retired from office, and that

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

their successors had been elected and qualified. These
successors, the present officers of the county, the appellant
asked to have substituted as appellees in this case. The
motion was inadvertently granted. The order granting
it must be in part vacated.
A suit to enjoin a public officer from enforcing a statute
is personal and in the absence of statutory provision for
continuing it against his successor, abates upon his death
or retirement from office. Pullman Co. v. Croom, 231
U. S. 571. In United States ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600, substitution was refused, although
consent was given by the successor in office. This court
said (p. 605):
"In view of the inconvenience, of which the present
case is a striking instance, occasioned by this state of the
law, it would seem desirable that Congress should provide
for the difficulty by enacting that, in the case of suits
against the heads of departments abating by death or
resignation, it-should be lawful for the successor in office
to be brought into the case bypetition, or some other appropriate method."
In response to the suggestion, Congress passed the Act
of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822, under which successors of United States officers who have been sued may
be substituted for them upon proper showing. In Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S.432, 442, it was held
that the statute authorized such procedure in the case of
a territorial judge appointed under a law of the United
States. But no authority exists for the substitution of
successors of state officers in such cases. We have examined the statutes of Arizona and find none in them.
The Arizona Civil Code, 1913, contains the following:
"Sec. 461." An action shall not abate by the death or
other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue.
In case of the death or disability of a party, the court, on

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

223

Opinion of the Court,

motion, may allow the action to be continued by or
against his representative or successor in interest. In case
of any other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party, or the court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action."
This does not permit the substitution of a successor for
a public official sued personally.
In the Butterworth Case, supra,it was sought to justify
substitution under an act which read as follows:
"No action, brought or to be brought, in any court of
this State shall abate by the death of either of the parties
to such action, but upon the death of any defendant, in
a case where the action by such death would have abated
before this act, the action shall be continued, and the heir,
devisee, executor or administrator of the defendant, as
the case may require, or other person interested on the
part of the defendant, may appear to such action."
This court said (p. 605):
c .
We are unable to perceive that this statute,
either in its terms or its spirit, is applicable to cases like
the present one. Neither the heir, devisee, executor or
administrator of a deceased official would have any legal
interest in such a controversy. Nor, in the case of a
resignation, could the successor be said to be 'a person
interested on the part of the defendant.'"
What we have said applies to the motion for substitution so far as it relates to Sam F. Webb, sued as County
Treasurer, C. W. Cummins, sued as County Assessor, and
L. M. Laney. sued as County Attorney, and the order
granting the motion as to them is vacated, the motion is
denied and the cause is dismissed as against them without prejudice, of course, to new suits against their successors.
It may not be improper to say that it would promote
ustice if Congress were to enlarge the scope of the Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

of February 8, 1899, so as to permit the substitution of
successors for state officers suing or sued in the federal
courts, who cease tb be officers by retirement or death,
upon a sufficient showing in proper cases. Under the
present state of the law, an important litigation may be
begun and carried through to this court after much effort
and expense, only to end in dismissal because, in the
necessary time consumed in reaching here, state officials,
parties to the action, have retired from office. It is a
defect which only legislation can cure.
J. G. Montgomery, county sheriff, still remains as appellee in the case but, as his taxing duties are only connected with the service of process in tax suits, it is doubtful whether, were he the only party here, an injunction
against him would give the relief sought. It is not necessary to decide this, however, as will be seen from what
follows.
So far as the order already entered substitutes for C. W.
Peterson and W. K. Bowen sued as County Supervisors,
C. S. Steward and Guy F. Vernon, who have been elected
to be their successors, as appellees, it will stand, for the
principle to be applied in their case is different. The rule
requiring abatement of such suits against officials on their
retirement and forbidding substitution of their successors,
does not apply when they constitute a board, having a
continuing existence. Ml1arshall v. Dye, 231 U. S. 250;
Richardson v. McChesney, 218 U. S. 487, 492; Murphy v.
Utter, 186 U. S. 95. An examination of the statutes of
Arizona as to the composition and duties of this board
leaves no doubt that it is a continuing one. A county in
Arizona is a body politic and corporate. Section 2388 of
the Arizona Civil Code of 1913 provides that "its powers
can be exercised only by the board of supervisors or by
lawful agents and officers acting under their authority and
authority of law." The Board has three members and is
vested with very wide and varied powers, acting as a

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

Opinion of the Court.

Board. Code, Title 10, c. IV. Its members exercise
official duties only as members of the Board, and a quorum
of two may act. Code, § 2408. Every two years, either
one or two members are elected, but the retiring menbers
hold until their successors are elected and qualified. Code,
.,- 2399, 2400. The motion'should be granted so far as
it asks the substitution .in case of the two supervisors.
unless it appears that under the averments and prayer of
the bill an injunction against the Board of Supervisors
alone will not aid the plaintiff. Warner Valley Stock Co.
v. Smith, 165 U. S. 28, 35, 36. The bill prays an injunction against the collection of taxes already assessed for
each of.twelve years and against future assessments. Are
the functions of the Board of Supervisors such that an injunction against them would prevent such collection and
assessment?
Under the Arizona statutes the procedure in the assessment and collection of taxes is that the county assessor
makes the original assessment roll against the owners, and
files it with the Board of Supervisors. Code, §§ 4860,4874.
The Supervisors or a majority of them constitute a board
of equalization, and revise the assessment roll and send it
to the State Board of Equalization. Upon its return from
the state board, § 4892 provides that the Board of Supervisors shall then proceed to assess taxes according to the
valuation specified in the assessment roll, and upon completion of such assessment, the chairman of the Board of
Supervisors shall annex to the roll a warrant commanding
the county treasurer to collect from the several persons
named in the roll the total taxes set opposite their respective names.
It is the duty of the Board of Supervisors to le,',y the
taxes, to direct all suits to which the county is a party,
to supervise the official conduct of all county officials
charged with assessing and collecting the public revenues.
to see that they discharge their duties faithfully, to di-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

rect prosecutions, for delinquencies (Code, § 2418), to
receive report of the treasurer and ex officio tax collector
each year of delinquent lists of real estate taxes, to examine and compare them, and to correct, them if any
property therein reported is not subject to, taxation, and
to return them to the treasurer for collection (Code,§§ 4909, 4912), and to exercise the same authority with
respect to the "back tax book" for previous years.
In view of these various duties of the Board of Supervisors not only in respect of the levying of future assessments but in the matter of correction and collection of

delinquent taxes, it is clear that an injunction restraining
the Board from future assessments on the lands in question, or from taking any steps to collect the back taxes,
would be substantially to secure the relief the plaintiff
seeks.
Coming now to the merits of the controversy, the point
at issue is whether when the plaintiff and his fellows completed all that they had to do under the original Homestead Act to perfect their right to a patent, they had an
equity against the Government which was taxable by the
Territory of Arizona and its successor the State. On the
pleadings and the agreed statement of facts, it is admitted
that the plaintiff and his associates performed all the
conditions under the Homestead Act and that they duly
took all the preliminary steps enjoined under the Reclais averred, and not denied in the
mation Act; but it.
answer of the defendahts, that a number of important
steps remained to be taken by plaintiff and those for
whom he sues in perfecting their claims under the Reclamation Act at the times these taxes were levied, and in
the case of the plaintiff and some of the class, at the time
of bringing this suit.
Under the Homestead Act, ev.Stats., §2291, every
person making a homestead entry was required among
other things to establish a residence upon the tract of

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

Opinion of the Court.

land entered and maintain a residence thereon and cultivate it for a period of not less than five years, and to submit final proof thereof upon which 'patent ultimately
issued in due course, within seven years after the (late of
entry. The act was amended June 6, 1912, c. 153, 37
Stat. 123, to reduce residence to three years. Under the
third section of the Reclamation Act, 32 Stat. 388, the
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to withdraw from
entry, except under the homestead laws, any public lands
believed to be susceptible of irrigation from the works
he is about to initiate, and all homestead entries bn such
lands are made subject to all the provisions, limitations,
charges, terms and conditions of the Reclamation Act.
The act further provides (§ 5) that the entryman upon
lands to be irrigated from the government works shall, in
addition to compliance with the homestead laws, reclaim
at least half of the total irrigable area of his entry for
agricultural purposes, and before redeiving a patent for
the lands covered by his entry shall pay to the Government the charges apportioned against such tract as contribution to the cost of the works. The Secretary is
authorized to fix a limit of area of land per entry representing the acreage which may reasonably support a family. The Secretary is given full power in § 10 to make
rules and regulations -needed to carry the act into effect.
H3 has done so. Under the act and the regulations contained in the General Reclamation Circular, each entryman is required to conform his entry to a "farm unit"
established by the Secretary within each reclamation project and this has forced many relinquishments and cancellations of surplus land in homestead entries, leoding to
remedial legislation hereafter mentioned. The entryman
is required to clear the land entered of brush and other
encumbrances, to provide the same with lateral ditches
for its effective irrigation, to grade the same and put it
into 15roper- condition for crop growth, and to plant, water,
044* -23--18

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

and cultivate, during the two years next preceding the
time of filing his final affidavit, half of the irrigable area
of his entry and to grow satisfactory crops thereon, i. e.,
crops equal to crops raised upon lands similarly situated.
Upon final proof, a final certificate is issued to the entryman showing that he has performed all conditions prece(lent to acquiring the title. The patent which is the
formal grant follows at the convenience of the Land Office
and often is delayed. By the Reclamation Act, homestead reclamation entrymen were obliged to pay all water
charges before a patent would issue, but the effect of subsequent legislation, in Acts of August 9, 1912, c. 280, 37
Stat. 267, of August 13, 1914, c. 247, 38 Stat. 686, and of
February 15, 1917, c. 71, 39 Stat. 920, is to divide the
water charges into instalments of varying percentages,
falling due during a period of twenty years, from and after
public notice by the Government that the water is ready
'for use, and to allow a patent upon payment of all instalments due at time of submitting final proof. If proof is
satisfactory, a patent then issues, conveying a full legal
title but reserving a prior lien to the Government, superior to all others, for all instalments unpaid.
The rule. established by the decisions of this court is
that, by virtue of its sovereignty and the constitutional
power of Congress to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States, no State can tax
the property of the United States within its limits. This
was recognized and enforced by the Enabling Act of June
20, 1910, c. 310, 36 Stat. 557, under which Arizona was, on
February 14, 1912, admitted to the Union, for that act
contained an express declaration that lands and property
belonging to the United States or reserved for its use were
exempted from taxation. Van Brockin v. Tennessee, 117
U. S. 151, 168; Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price
County, 133 U. S. 496, 504. An exception to this prin-

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

Opinion of the Court.

ciple, or rather its non-application, is recognized where
the Government has by-final certificate parted with the
equitable title to a person subject to state taxation and
retains only the legal title by its delay in issuing the patent. Not until the equitable title passes can the State
tax the entryman, except in the case of mining claims (the
reason for which we shall presently consider), and in cases
in which express authority to tax is given in the statute.
Bothwell v. Bin gham County, 237 U. S. 642, 647; Sargent
v. Herrick, 221 U. S. 404, 407; Stearns v. Minnesota, 179
U. S. 223, 251; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Myers, 172
U. S. 589; Hussman v. Durham, 165 U. S. 144, 147, 150;
Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price County, supra;
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Traill County, 115 U. S.
600; Colorado Co. v. Coinmissioners, 95 U. S. 259; Railway Co. v. McShane, 22 Wall. 444; Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603.
The county authorities in this case were in error in supposing that an equitable title passed from- the Government to the entrymen here, when the latter had fulfilled
the requirements of the Homestead Act. Had their entries been controlled solely by that act, they would have
been right. But, as we have seen, their entries were made
under that act as supplemented and qualified by the
Reclamation Act; and the latter expressly entails on such
entrymen additional conditions which must be performed
before an equitable title or a. right to -a patent is secured.
We are cited by counsel for appellees to an opinion of
Judge Dietrich of the District Court of Idaho in a suit
brought by the United States to enjoin.Canyon County.
Idaho, and its taxing officers from taxing lands or the interests of settlers therein in the Boise Reclamation project. United States v. Canyon County, 232 Fed. 985.
The case involved two classes of lands. The first was of
lands in which a patent had issued, conveying a fee in the
land subject to a lien of the United States, superior to all

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

others, for future instalments of water rents. The second
was of lands in which the conditions of the original homestead law had been complied with, but the entrymen had
not paid in full for their water rights and they had not
brought the requisite acreage under cultivation and irrigation. The court held that the interests of the patentees
in the first, and of the entryinen in the second class of lands
were taxable by the State. In the first ruling, we concur.
The patent vested the full legal title in the entrymen.
The fact that a lien was reserved on the face of the patent
prior in right to all other liens for instalments of water
charges to fall due in the future did not prevent this, and
the giving patents indicated an intention on the part of
the Government that it should be land of the entrymen
and of course it became taxable as such. Baltimore Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co. v. Ballimore, 195 U. S. 375.
With the second ruling, in which the District Court
was sustained by a decision of the Supreme Court of
Idaho, Cheney v. Minidoka County, 26 Id. 471, we can
not agree. We can not reconcile it with the cases in this
court which we have cited above. The District Judge
relies on the Act of June 23, 1910, c. 357, 36 Stat. 592,
which permits entrymen within reclamation projects, after
having made satisfactory proof of residence, improvement
and cultivation for the period originally required under
the homestead law, to assign such entries or any part
thereof to other persons. Such assignees, upon subsequently submitting proof of the reclamation of the lands
and upon payment of the charges apportioned against the
same as provided in the Reclamation Act may receive a
patent, "Provided, That all assignments made under the
,provisions of this act shall be subject to the limitations,
charges, terms, and conditions of the reclamation Act."
By circular of the Secretary of the Interior, the entryman
may mortgage his interest also. The argument is that
this puts such an interest as the entryman has in the lands

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

Opinion of 1he Court.

in the same category as mining claims which have always
been taxable. Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226. We do not
think that mining claims present a convincing analogy.
The basis of the mining interest is discovery and location.
These give full opportunity to the locator of the claim to
take out the mineral, and, since the beginning, this right
and interest never has been dependent for its enjoyment
on patent, and so it has been taxable. Forbes v. Gracey,
94 U. S. 762. The rule has always been different in respect to other public lands as the numerous decisions of
this court cited above show.
Even before the statute of 1910, a homesteader could
mortgage his interest to help him in performing the conditions of earning his patent. Mudgett v. Dubuque &
Sioux City R. R. Co., 8 L. D. 243. The care with which
the Government has thus framed its land policy to protect
and encourage the homesteader is shown further in Ruddy
v. Rossi, 248 U. S. 104, 105. The Government incurs
heavy liability in providing water for these lands. It
relies on the entrymen to reclaim them, thus finally
achieving its sole object of adding arid tracts to the productive area of the country. In pursuit of this purpose,
it has found the requirement that the entryman shall pay
all his apportioned cost of the irrigation work before he
gets title, too burdensome, and, as we have seen, the sum
has been spread in instalments over twenty years, and his
title is given him after he has reclaimed the land and paid
the few early instalments due at that time. The Act of
1910 does not purport to subject these lands to taxation
while the title is as yet unearned and its terms show that
it is not intended to permit anything beyond what fairly
falls within its express provisions. Its evident and sole
purpose was to enable entrymen whose entries were cut
down in area by the Secretary of the Interior in prescribing farm- units to dispose of their surplus to others who
would be able to hold it, fulfill conditions and secure a

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

patent, and avoid a relinquishment or cancellation of the
surplis which had been the consequence before the act.
This is apparent from an amendment to the Act of 1910
passed May 8, 1916, c. 114, 39 Stat. 65, and from the
Report of the Committee or Irrigation of Arid Lands of
the House of Representatives of the 64th Congress, 1st
session, No.: 127, upon which the amendment was adopted.
To construe this remedial legislation, including the Act of
1910, which is only intended to lighten the task of the
entryman in re-aiming the land and acquiring title, so as
to impose on him the new burden of state taxation, is contrary to its plain policy. We think, therefore, that the
reason for the rule, making the acquisition of the equitable
title the line between non-taxability and taxability, is
stronger in case of reclamation homestead entrymen than
'in the instances where, before the Reclamation Act, it
always applied. Moreover, the confusion caused in the
past by the taxation, when specifically permitted, of indefinite and inchoate interests of the beneficiaries of government land grants, should prevent an inference of the
congressional intention to depart from the rule requiring
an equitable title in the entryman before state taxation,
unless a purpose to permit earlier taxation is express or
strongly implied.
It is argued that it is not government property which
is sought to be taxed here before final certificate, but only
the interest of the 'entryman. In the case at bar, the
taxes were in the first instance assessed against the land,
but later the Board of Supervisors changed the form of the
assessment so as to insert the word "equity" in the record. The power of the Supervisors, under the Arizona
statutes, to order- such a change in past assessments, is
challenged. We do not think it necessary to decide this.
It is enough to say that the entrymen did not have the
equitable title until they received the final certificate and
their interest in the Government's land, until that issued,

IRWIN v. WRIGHT.
219.

Opinion ot the Court.

was, for the reasons given, not taxable. Whether an interest like that of the entrymen in land not belonging to
the Government would be taxable property, we have no
occasion to consider.
Of the taxes here complained of, those from 1907 until
1916 were levied before the Secretary of the Interior, in
January, 1917, had fixed for this project a farm unit of 40
acres to which each entry must conform. Certainly until
the area which the entryman ould receive was ascertained, no equitable title could pass.
After the farm unit was established, the entryman had
two years in which to fulfil the requisites of the statute.
One of these, and as important as any, was the filing of
the final affidavit showing that he had performed the
conditions precedent to getting a patent, which he had to
present to the land office for approval and final certificate,
which, as we have said, gave him equitable title. From an
exhibit to the bill, the accuracy of which is not controverted, it appears that of the class of forty-nine entrymen
for whom the plaintiff sues, twenty-four received a final
certificat , in 1919, and that twenty-five, including the
plaintiff, had not received a final certificate when the bill
was filed. As to the former, assessment of all taxes
assessed against them for the years 1907 to 1918, inclusive, was illegal, and the defendants, J. G. Montgomery,
Sheriff, and J. W. Bradshaw, Guy F. Vernon and C. S.
Steward, members of the Board of Supervisors, should be
enjoined from taking any steps to enforce collection. As
to the latter, collection of all taxes assessed prior to filing
the bill, and all future assessments for taxes on their interests as entrymen until final certificate shall have been
issued to them by the United States Government, will
be illegal and the foregoing defendants should be enjoined
accordingly.
The decree of the District Court is reversed, with directions to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

