UNION TRUST CO. v. WARDELL.
529.

Counsel for Parties.

transactions complete'd when the act became a law. And
this, we repeat, is in accord with principle and -authority.
It is the proclamation of both that a statute should not be
given a retrospective operation unless its words make that
imperative and this cannot be said of the words of the Act
of September 8, 1916.
Judgment reversed.
UNION TRUST COMPANY OF SAN FRANCISCO
ET ArL., AS EXECUTORS OF LACHMAN; v.
WARDELL, UNITED STATES COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, "ET A.L.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 236.

Argued April 17, 18, 1922.-Decided May 1, 1922.

1. TheEstate Tax Act of 1916, did not apply to-transfers in contemplation of death made before its passage. P. 540. Shwab v.
Doyle, ante, 529.
2. A collector of internal revenue is not liable to an action for
recovery of a tax collected by his predecessor in office. P. 541.
Smietanka v. Indiana Steel Co., 257 U. S. 1.
273 Fed. 733, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining
a demurrer and dismissing the complaint in an action to
recover a sum collected as an estate tax.

Mr. Garret W. McEnerney, with whom Mr. William
D. Guthrie,Mr. E. S. Heller, Mr. Isaac Frohmanand Mr.
Bernard Hershkopf were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was
on the brief, for defendants in error.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Mr. CharlesE. Hughes, Jr., and Mr. Allen S. Hubbard,
by leave "of court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
Mr. Mansfield Ferry, Mr. C. Alexander Capron and
Mr. Russell L. Bradford, by leave of court, filed a brief
as amici curiae.
Mr. J. Wallace Bryan and Mr. Charles Mc-I. Howard,
by leave of court, filed a brief as arnici curide.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court,
This case was argued at the same time and submitted
with No. 200, Shwab v..Doyle, just decided, ante, 529. It
involves, as that case did, the Estate Tax Act of September 8, 1916, 39 Stat. 777, and its different facts illustrate
And aid the principle upon which that case was decided.
Plaintiffs in error are executors of the last will and testament ofHenriette S. Lachman, deceased. -They were
also parties to.,a trust deed made by her during her lifetime. They sued defendant in error Wardell, he then being United, States Collector of Internal Revenue for the
First District of California, to recover the sum 'of
$4,545.50, that.being the amount of a tax assessed against
the estate of Hepriette S. Lachman upon the value of
4,985 shares of stock transferred in trust by Henriette S.
Lachman to trustees, upon the assumption that the Act of
CoAgress of September 8, 1916, was applicable to the trust.
.The following is a summary of the facts stated narratively. On May 31, 1901, Henriette S. Lachman was the
owner of .7,475 shares of the capital stock of the S. & H.
Lachman Estate, a corporation. On that date she executed and delivered to Albert'Lachman and Henry Lachman, her' sons, the following instrument:
"jameda, Cal., May 31, 1901.
"To Albert Lachman and Henry Lachman, my sons:
" This is to Qbrtify that I have delivered to you seven
thousand four hundred and seventy-five (7,475) shares of

UNION TRUST CO. v. WARDELL.
537.

Opinion of the- Court.

the capital stock of the S. & H. Lachman Estate, represented by certificates numbers eleven (11), twelve (12)
and thirteen (13) respectively, however, upon the following trust:
"To pay to me during "my lifetime, all the income
earned and derived therefrom, and, upon my death, to
deliver two thousand four hundred and ninety (2,490)
shares, represented by certificates number eleven, (11)
unto Henry Lachman, thenceforth for his absolute property; two thousand four hundred and ninety-five (2,495)
shares, represented by certificate number thirteen (13)
unto Albert Lachman, thenceforth for his absolute property; and yourselves, to-wit, Albert Lachman and Henry
Lachman, to hold two thousand fou hundfed and *ninety
(2,490) shares, represented by certificate number twelve
(12) upon my death, in trust paying the income derived
therefrom unto my daughter, Rebecca, wife of Leo Metzger, and upon the death of my said daughter, the income
and earnings derived from said two thousand four hundred and ninety (2,490) shares shall be held, or expended,
by you, according to your judgment, for the behiefif of my
grandchildren, the children of my said daughter, Rebecca
Metzger, and upon the youngest of said children attaining
the age of majority, all the then surviving children of my
said dughter, Rebecca Metzger, shall be immediately entitled to said two thousand four hundred and ninety
(2,490) shares in equal proportidns.
Henriette Lachman."
The requirements of the deed were performed upon the
contingencies occurring for which it provided.
On November 14, 1916, Henriette S. Lachman died, being then a resident of Alameda County, California, leaving an estate of the value of $302,963.64, which included
2,490 shares of the stock that passed to her upon the death
of her husband and 25 shares of stock in a business that
had been conducted by her husband, but did not iiclude
the transfer of the 4,985 shares included in the trust deed.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

The will was duly probated and the tax under the Act
of September 8, 1916, was paid on the property which
passed under her will, but no tax was paid on the 4,985
shares transferred 15 years before by the trust deed.
The Commissioner having Yuled that those shares were
subject to a tax, assessed against them the sum of
$4,545.50. It was paid under protest and this action was
brought for its recovery.
Wardell demurred to the complaint on the ground that
it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against him. The demurrer was sustained and
judgment entered dismissing the complaint. 273 Fed.
733.
Stating the contention of the plaintiffs, the court said it
was that "the act should not be construed as to include
transfers made prior to its passage, and that, if so construed, the act is unconstitutional." The curt observed
that "both of these questions were determined adversely
to the plaintiffs by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in Shwab, Executor, v. Doyle, 269 Fed.
321." And it said further, "In that case the transfer was
made in contemplation of death, whereas in the present
case the transfer was intended to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after death; but manifestly the same
rule of construction will apply to both provisions, and
the same rule of constitutional validity."
The court, while apparently relying on Shwab v. Doyle,
declared that it entertained "no doubt that the act was
intended to operate retrospectively, and a contrary construction could only be justified on the principle that
such a constructioh would render the act inconstitutional."
The same contentidns are made against anlo for the
ruling of the court as were made in Shwab v. Doyle, ante,
529. It is not necessary to repeat them. They are, with
but verbal variations, the same as in Shwab v. Doyle,

UNION TRUST CO. v. WARDELL.
537.

Opinion of the Court.

and the Collector so considering, submits this case upon
the brief in that.
We have there stated them and passed judgment upon
that which we think determines the case, that is, the retroactivity of the Act of September 8, 1916. The facts in
this case fortify the reasoning in that. In this case the
act is given operation against an instrument executed 15
years before the passage of the act.
The record exhibits proceedings that should be noticed.
The demurrer of Wardell was sustained to the complaint,
and a judgment of dismissal entered January 13, 1921.
On February 2, 1921, plaintiffs gave notice of a motion
to substitute John L. Flynn as defendant in the place
and stead of Wardell, in so far as the action was against
Wardell in his official capacity, and to permit it to be continued and prosecuted against him so far as it was against
him personally.
The grounds of the motion were stated to be that he
had resigned and Flynn had been appointed his successor.
and was then the acting Collector.
On February 7, 1921, the motion was granted. The
order of the court recited the resignation of Wardell and
the succession of' Flynn. And it being uncertain as to
whether this was a proper case for the substitution of
Flynn or was one which should proceed against Wardell,
and it appearing to the court on motion of plaintiffs that
it was necessary for the survivor to obtain a settlement
of the questions involved, it was ordered that so far as the
action was against Wardell in his official capacity, it
might be sustained against Flynn as his successor, and
that so far as it was against Wardell personally, it should
be continued against him. And it was ordered that the
action should thereafter proceed against Flynn and
Wardell without further pleadings or' process.
On February 9, 1921, Flynn filed an appearance by
attorneys which recited that he had been substituted in

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

the place of Wardell in so far as the action was against
Wardell in his official capacity, and thereby appeared in
the action as such defendant.
It will be observed that there was no resistance to the
motion of substitution of Flynn nor exception by him,
and that he almost immediately appeared in the action in
compliance with the order of the court. The subsequent
proceedings were directed as much against him as against
Wardell, the bond upon the writ of error running to both.
However, this court decided in Smietanka v. Indiana
Steel Co., 257 U. S. 1, that a suit may not be brought
against a Collector of Internal Revenue for the recovery of
a tax, in the collection and disbursement of which such
offie-r had no agency. We think the bringing of Flynn
into the case was error. Therefore, upon the return of
the case to the District Court, he shall be permitted to
set up the defense of non-liability, if he be so advised, and,
if he set up the defense, it shall be ruled as sufficient for
the reasons we have given.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
LEVY ET AL. v. WARDELL, UNITED STATES COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
FIRST DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT Ol CALIFORNIA.
No. 303. Argued April 18, 1922.-Decided May 1, 1922.
Decided upon the authority of Shwab v. D6yle, ante. 529, and Union
Trust Co. v. Wardell, ante, 537.

Reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Cou t sustaining a
demurrer -and dismissing the complaint in an action to
recover a sum collected, as an estate tax.

