OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

280

Syllabus.

258 U. S.

make men more reasonably considerate of the safety of
the children" of their neighbors, than will the harsh rule
which makes trespassers of little children which the court
is now substituting for it, I cannot share in setting aside
the verdict of the jury in this case, approved by the judgments of two courts, upon what is plainly a disputed question of fact and in thereby overruling two decisions which
have been accepted as leading authorities for half a century, and I therefore dissent from the judgment and
opinion of the court.
UNITED STATES v. BEHRMAN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 582.

Argued March 7, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.

1. An exception in a statute defining an offense is met in an indictment by alleging facts sufficient to show that the defendant was
not within the exception. P. 287.
2. An indictment need only describe the crime with sufficient clear* ness to show the violation of law and to inform the defendant of
the nature and cause of the accusation and enable him to plead
the judgment, if any, in bar of further prosecution for the same
offense. P. 288.
3. An indictment for a statutory offense need not charge scienter or
intent if the statute does not make them elements. P. 288.
4. Under the Anti-Narcotic Act of December 17, 1914, c. 1, § 2, 38
Stat. 785, making it an offense to sell, barter, exchange or give
away certain drugs except in pursuance of a written order of the
person to whom such article is to be sold, etc., on an official form,
and providing that nothing in the section shall apply to the dispensing or distribution of the drugs to a patient by a registered
physician in the course of his professional practice only, or to
their sale, dispensing or distribution by a dealer to a consumer in
pursuance of a written prescription issued by a registered physician, such a physician commits the offense if, knowing a person
to be habitually addicted to the use of such drugs, and not purposing to treat him for any other disease, he issues him prescrip-

UNITED STATES v. BEHRMAN.
280.

Argument for the United States.

fions for quantities sufficient to make a great number of doses,
more than enough to satisfy his craving if all consumed at one
time, intending that he shall use- them by self-administration in
divided doses over a period of several days, and thus enables the
addict to obtain such excessive quantities, without other order,
from a pharmacist, and to have them in his possession and control
with no other restraint upon their administration or disposition
than his own weakened will. P. 288.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining
a demurrer to an indictment.

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for the United SfktThe main enacting part of § 2 contemplates merely an
external standard and does not require either guilty
knowledge or guilty intent. The question is whether the
defendant's action can be called a dispensing or prescription of drugs to a patient in the.course of defendant's
professional practice only, within the meaning of the exceptions. The so-called "patient" in this case was suffering from no disease except drug addiction. It must be
admitted that that is a disease, and that the defendant
intended by his method of treatment to cure it, and honestly believed that he could, by this method. Nevertheless, it is a well known fact, of which this court has taken
notice, that drug addicts as- a class are persons weakened
materially in their sense of moral responsibility and in
their power of will, and this court also knows, as a matter
of common knowledgQ, that, in any community where
drug' are prescribed, there will be a large number of
physicians to whom any construction of § 2 will be applicable. The question, therefore, is whether every physician licensed and registered under the act is at liberty, if.
he honestly believes such a course to be proper, to furnish
to drug addicts the means to obtain the drugs without
any supervision upon the part of the various doctors in-

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1021.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

258 U.8.

Volved of the manner or time of taking or other disposition of the drugs.
In so far as the revenue feature of the act is concerned,
see United States v. Rosenberg, 251 Fed. 963; United
States v. Doremits,,249 U. S. 86; Webb v. United States,
249 U. S. 96, 99, 100; Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254
U. S. 189, 194.
regard to the intent or belief of
While no question in"
the physician was raised or was material in the cases
referred to, the principles laid down in them, in so far as
they relate to the revenue feature, seem to encourage the
conclusion that, irrespective of the intent or knowledge,
the transfer of drugs without any supervision whatsoever
would not be, as a matter of law, the prescription of the
drugs to a patient in the legitimate practice of a physician'' profession. In regard to the aspect of the act as a
measure aimed to prevent drug addiction, the case made
by the indictment must be looked at in the same spirit in
which this court looked at the third certified question in
the Webb Case. As a matter of common sense, no drug
addict can possibly be cured by any such method as this,
and the whole method of treatment is a mere pretense,
however honest the doctor may be in his belief and intentions, by-which the addict obtains a store of drugs to
suit his cravings and to dispose of them for money if he
so desires. A drug addict might visit many doctors and
obtairl drugs from all of them. The result would be to
transfer ihe distribution of the drugs from regular licensed
dealers to physicians.
See Hoyt v. United States, 273 Fed.. 792; Barbot v.
United States, 273 Fed. 919.
Mr. Thomas C. Spelling, for defendant in .error, submitted.
It requires a strained, indeed a nonpermissible, construction to bring the administration, direct or. through

UNITED STATES v. BEHRMAN.
280.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

prescriptions, of the narcotics specified, within the terms
or meaning of the act, even if exceptions (a) and (b) had
not been inserted. A physician in treating a patient and
prescribing for him does not either sell, barter, exchange
or give away the medicine which he prescribes. The
prescription embodies prGfessional advice for which the
patient pays. He does not buy the prescription, but
pays for the advice. The order must not only be issued
on an official blank, but it must be the order "of the
person to whom such article is sold, bartered, exchanged,
or given." The statute differentiates amply for our pres-ent purpose prescriptions from the commercial orders
intended.
In exception (b), prescriptions are placed in a distinct category from such orders. That the "written order" required to be presented by an ordinary purchaser
is in a category other than the prescription is further
shown by the requirement of different modes of authentication. In exception (b) the written prescription which
the purchaser uses and to which the statute does not apply, "shall be dated as of the day on which it is signed
by the physician who shall have issued the same."
The statute says: "Nothing contained in this section
shall apply: (a) To the dispensing or distribution of any
,of the aforesaid drugs to a patient by a physician .
registered under this act in the course of his professional
practice only." The proviso which completes that exception is not relevant nor is any portion of exception (b)
relevant, except that the latter furnishes conclusive evidence that Congress had in mind the common or uniform
method by which the exempted classes practice their professions, namely, by delivering written prescriptions. In
other words, Congress recognized that civilize tion embraces a profession of numerous and, for the most part,
highly esteemed membership, upon whom afflicted, diseased, crippled and dying humanity leans in pain and
anguish. And, now, with no justifying words in the stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

258 U. S.

ute, plaintiff would interpolate a meaning to exclude those
constituting a large class designated as "addicts," where
the purpose is merely relief from pain and not to effect a
cure. But even if we conceded the correctness of that
extreme view it would not save this indictment.
The statute contains not a word of limitation upon the
words "professional practice only," nor does it use the
term. "addict ", or any reference whatever to any class of
patients or diseases, and the Government admits that
addiction is a disease. Of course, a prescription could be
resorted to by a regular licensed physician as a mere subterfuge for effecting a sale. But, here, not only is there
a total absence of allegation of bad faith, unlawful intent
and irregularity, but language is used clearly warranting
a contrary presumption in each and all of these respects.
The Government argues that the amount of drugs is
-designated as "large ", but the allegation that the drugs
were to be self-administered in divided doses "over a
period of several days" seems to negative or modify any
such inference. The court might infer as a matter of
common knowledge that the quantity would be excessive
if a limited number of doses were specified, but in this
case, owing to the indefiniteness of "several days" we
have no data to justify an inference that the quantity
was large.
The facts alleged do not constitute a crime, because
they are consistent with. defendant's innocence and an
honest and sincere purpose to cure King of his addiction
t'o the use of the drugs dispensed, or to permanently better his physical condition due to such addiction.
The Government's argument is an admission that the
debisions so far rendered do not support the desired extension and that a precedent to accomplish it is now
sought.
Though we are not required to go so far, yet for humane
reasons, we urge that any construction which would for-

UNITED STATES v. BEHRMAN.
280.

Opinion of the Court.

bid and penalize the giving of a prescription to afford
temporary relief, even though a cure was not in immediate
contemplation, would be a harsh construction not warranted by any language in the statute.
In this indictment there is not a word to indicate that
the defendant gave the prescription merely that the addict
might make himself comfortable or that negatives the
presumption that it was given with the intention of effecting a cure. Hoyt v. United States, 273 Fed. 792;
Barbot v. United States, 273 Fed. 919.
It was not necessary that King should have been under
the direct control of the defendant to constitute him a
"patient" within the meaning of the statute, as the term
is there used. Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 U. S.
189; United States v. Balint, D. C. So. Dist. N. Y., June
28, 1921, unreported. See s. c., ante, 250.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here under the Criminal Appeals Act, 34
Stat. 1246. The statute involved is the Narcotic Drug
Act of December 17, 1914, c. 1, § 2, a, 38 Stat. 785, 786.
This statute in § 2, subdivision a, makes it an offense to
sell, barter, exchange, or give away any of the narcotic
drugs named in the act except in pursuance of a written
order of the person to whom such article is sold, bartered,
exchanged, or given, on a form to be issued in blank for
that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
It is further provided that nothing in the section shall
apply to the dispensing or distribution of any of the drugs
to a patient by a registered physician in the course of his
professional practice only, or to the sale, dispensing or
distribution of said drugs by a dealer to a consumer in
pursuance of a written prescription issued by a physician
registered under the act.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

The indictment charges that the defendant did unlawfully sell,' barter, and give to Willie King a compound,
manufacture, and derivative of opium, to wit, 150 grains of
heroin and 360 grains of morphine, and a compound, manufacture, and derivative of coca leaves, to wit, 210 grains
of cocaine, not in pursuance of any written order of
King on a form issued for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the United States; that
the defendant was a duly licensed physician and registered
under the act; and issued three written orders to the said
King in the form of prescriptions signed by him, which
prescriptions called for the delivery to King of the amount
of drugs above described; that the defendant intended
that King should obtain the drugs from the druggist upon
the said orders; that King did obtain upon said orders
drugs of the amount and kind above described pursuant to
the said prescriptions; that King was a person addicted to
the habitual use of morphine, heroin and cocaine, and
known by the defendant to be so addicted; that King did
not require the administration of either morphine, heroin,
or cocaine by reason of any disease other than such addiction; that defendant did not dispense any of the drugs
for the purpose of treating any disease or condition other
than such addiction; that none of the drugs so dispensed
by the defendant was administered to or intended by
the defendant to be administered to King by the defendant or any nurse, or person acting under the direction
of the defendant; nor were any of the drugs consumed or
intended to be consumed by King in the presence of the
defendant, but that all of the drugs were put in the
possession or control of King with the intention on the
part of the defendant that King would use the same by
self-administration in divided doses over a period of several days, the amount of each of said drugs dispensed
being more than sufficient or necessary to satisfy the
craving of King therefor if consumed by him all at one

UNITED STATES v. BEHRMAN.
280.

Opinion" of the Court.

time; that King was not in any way restrained or prevented from disposing of the drugs in any manner he saw
fit; and that the drugs so dispensed by the defendant were
in the form in which said drugs are ,usually consumed
by persons addicted to the habitual use thereof to satisfy
their craving therefor, and were adapted for such consumption.
The question is: Do the acts charged in this indictment
constitute an offense within the meaning of the statute?
As we have seen, the statute contains an exception to the
effect that it shall not apply to the. dispensing or distribution of such drugs to a patient by a registered physician in the course of his professional practice only, nor
to the sale, dispensing or distribution of the'drugs by a
dealer to a consumer under a written prescription by a
registered physician. The rule applicable to such statutes
is that it is enough to charge facts sufficient to show that
the accused is not within the exception. United States
v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168, 173.
The District Judge who heard this case was of the
opinion that prescriptions in the regular course of practice did not include the indiscriminate doling out of narcotics in such quantity to addicts as charged in the indictment, but out of deference to what he deemed to be
the view of a local District Judge in another case announced his willingness to follow such opinion until the
question could be passed upon by this court, and sustained
the demurrer. In our opinion the District Judge who
heard the case was right in his conclusion and should
have overruled the demurrer.
Former decisions of this court have held that the purpose of the ex'ception is to confine the distribution of
these drugs to the regular and lawful course of professional practice, and that not everything called a prescription is necessarily such. Webb v. United States, 249
U. S. 96; Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 U. S. 189.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Of this phase of the act this court said in the Ji Fuey
Moy Case, p. 194:
"Manifestly the phrases 'to a patient' and 'in the
course of his professional practice only' are intended to
confine the immunity of a registered physician, in dispensing the narcotia drugs mentioned in the act, strictly
within the appropriate bounds of a physician's professional practice, and not to extend it to include a sale to a
dealer or a distribution intended to cater to the appetite or satisfy the craving of one addicted to the use of the
drug. A 'prescription' issued for either of the latter purposes protects neither the physician who issues it nor the
dealer who knowingly accepts and fills it. Webb v.
United States, 249 U. S. 96."
It is enough to sustain an indictment that the offense
be described with sufficient clearness to show a violation
of law, and to enable the accused to know the nature and
cause of the accusation and to plead the judgment, if one
be rendered, in bar of further prosecution for the same
offense. If the offense be a statutory one, and intent or
knowledge is not made an element of it, the indictment
need not charge such knowledge or intent. United States
v. Smith, 2 Mason, 143; United States v. Miller, Fed.
Cas. 15,775; United States v. Jacoby, Fed. Cas. 15,462;
United States v. Ulrici, Fed. Cas. 16,594, (opinion by
Miller, Circuit Justice); United States v. Bayaud, 16 Fed.
376, 383-4; United States v. Jackson, 25 Fed. 548, 550;
United States v. Guthrie, 171 Fed. 528, 531; United States
v. Balint, ante, 250.
It may be admitted that to prescribe a single dose, or
even a number of doses, may not bring a physician within
the penalties of the act; but what'is here charged is that
the defendant physician by means of prescriptions has
enabled one, known by him to be an addict, to obtain
from a pharmacist the enormous number of doses contained in 150 grains of heroin, 360 grains of morphine,

UNITED STATES v. BEHRMAN.
280.

HOLMES, McREYNOLDs

and

BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

and 210 grains of cocaine. As shown by Wood's United
States Dispensatory, a standard Work in general use, the
ordinary dose of morphine is one-fifth of a grain, of cocaine one-eighth to one-fourth of a grain, of heroin onesixteenth to one-eighth of a grain. By these standards
more than three thousand ordinary doses were placed in
the control of King. Undoubtedly doses may be varied
to suit different cases as determined by the judgment of a
physician. But the quantities named in the indictment
are charged to have been entrusted to a person known
by the physician to be an addict without restraint upon
him in its administration or disposition by anything more
than his own weakened and perverted will. Such socalled prescriptions could only result in the gratification
of a diseased appetite for these pernicious drugs or result
in an unlawful parting with them to others in violation
of the act as heretofore interpreted in this court within
the principles laid down in the Webb and Jin Fuey Moy
Cases, supra.
We hold that the acts charged in the indictment constituted an offense within the terms and meaning of the
act. The judgment of the District Court to the contrary
should be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES, with whom concurred MR. JusTICE McREYNOLDs and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting.
If this case raised a question of pleading I should go
far in agreeing to disregard technicalities that were
deemed vital a hundred or perhaps even fifty years ago.
But we have nothing to do with pleading as such, and as
the Judge below held the indictment bad it can be sustained only upon a construction of the statute different
from that adopted below.
The indictment for the very purpose of raising the issue
that divides the Court alleges in terms that the drugs

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

were intended by the defendant to be used by King in
divided doses over a period of several days. The defendant was a licensed physician and his part in the sale
was the giving of prescriptions for the drugs. In view of
the allegation that I have quoted and the absence of any
charge to the contrary it must be assumed that he gave
them in the regular course of his practice and in good
faith. Whatever ground for scepticism we may find in the
facts we are bound to accept the position knowingly and
deliberately taken by the pleader and evidently accepted
by the Court below.
It seems to me impossible to con'str'ue. the statute as
tacitly making such acts, however foolish, crimes, by saying that what is in form a prescription and is given
honestly in the course of a doctor's practice, and therefore, so far as the words of the statute go, is allowed in
terms, is not within the words, is not a prescription and
is not given in the course of practice, if the Court deems
the doctor's faith in his patient manifestly unwarranted.
It seems to me wrong to construe the statute as creating a
crime in this way without a word of warning. Of course
the facts alleged suggest an indictment in a different form,
but the Government preferred to trust to a strained interpretation of the law rather than to the finding of a jury
upon the facts. I think that the judgment should be
affirmed.
HtUMP HAIRPIN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
EMMERSON, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE
STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPRETME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No.'139.

Argued March 2, 3, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.

1. Error of state authorities in treating interstate as intrastate business in computing a corporation excise tax under a statute meant
to include the latter only in the computation, goes to the constitutionality of the tax and not of the statute. P. 293.

