OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

of this suit to be borne equally by the parties and if one
of them has paid more than one-half of such sums, it shall
be reimbursed by the other for such excess.
It is further ordered, that the clerk of this court do
transmit to the respective governors of the States of
Minnesota and Wisconsin copies of this decree, duly
authenticated under the seal of this court, omitting from
said copies the two maps filed with the report.
STATE OF TEXAS v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION AND RAILROAD LABOR BOARD.
IN

EQUITY.

No. 24, Original. Argued on motions to dismiss December 7,8, 1921.Decided March 6, 1922.
1. Regarded as corporate entities created for governmental purposes,
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Railroad Labor
Board are not citizens of any State. P. 160.
2. Abstract questions of the power of Congress to enact specified
legislation do not present a case or controversy within the judicial power as defined by the Constitution. P. 162.
3. A suit by a State against the Railroad Labor Board and the Interstate Commerce Commission, seeking to annul action taken by
them under the Transportation Act of 1920, as an unconstitutional invasion of the rights of the State, injurious to her citizens,
held not to be entertained by this court in the exercise of its
original jurisdiction where the decisions and orders complained of
had been put in execution and their annulment would directly
and unavoidably affect resulting interests of carriers and carrier
employees who were not parties or represented in the litigation.
P. 163.
4. That the citizenship of such necessary parties prevents their being..joined will not justify proceeding in their absence. P. 163.
5. A suit by a State to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission must be brought in the District Court and the United
States must be nrkde a defendant. P. 164. North Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 485.

Bill dismissed.

TEXAS v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
158.

159

Opinion of the Court.

On motions to dismiss an original bill in this court,
brought by the State of Texas against the Interstate
Commerce Commission and the Railroad Labor Board,
and seeking to have declared unconstitutional certain
portions of the Transportation Act of 1920, to annul all
action taken thereunder by either defendant in respet of
railroad carriers in Texas, and to restrain the defendants
from taking any further action thereunder in respect of
those carriers.
Mr. Tom L. Beauchamp, with whom Mr. C. M. Cureton, Attorney General of the State of Texas, Mr. W. A.
Keeling, Mr. Walace Hawkins and Mr. John E. Benton
were on the brief, for complainant.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder was on the brief, for the Railroad Labor Board.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Alfred P. Thom, for the Association of Railway Executives, as amicus curiae, by special leave of court.
Mr. N. A. Stedman, Mr. E. B. Perkins and Mr. Daniel
Upthegrove, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of
the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, as amici
curiae.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a bill in equity brough in this court by the
State of Texa.s against the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Railroad Labor Board. The relief sought
is, first, a declaration that the main provisions 1 of Titles
III and IV of the Transportation Act of 1920, c. 91, 41
Stat. 456, 469, 474. are unconstitutional and void,
1 Partietflarly §§ 300-316, tuhdivisions 18-22 of § 402, §§ 407 and
416, subdivison 1 of § 418, and §§ 422 and 439.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

secondly, an annulment of all action heretofore taken
thereunder, by either defendant, in respect of railroad
carriers in Texas, and, thirdly, an injunction restraining
the defendants from taking any further action thereunder
in respect of those carriers. The right of the State to
bring the suit, our power to entertain it and the merits of
the case made by the bill are all challenged by motions to
dismhiss.
In the bill and supporting brief the defendants are
spoken of as citizens of States other than Texas and this
is treated as bringing the suit within our original jurisdiction. But both defendants are sued as .corporate entities
created by the United States for governmental purposes;
and, if that be their status,2 they are not citizens of any
State,3 but have the same relation to one State as to another. So, to entertain the suit we should have to find
some ground of jurisdiction other than the one suggested.
But we need not stop to consider the possible grounds
whereon a State may invoke our original jurisdiction,
because an examination of the bill discloses insuperable
obstacles to our entertaining it on any ground.
The provisions of Titles III and IV which are drawn in
question are all in terms confined to matters pertaining
to railroad carriers engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, and evidently were enacted in what Congress regarded as an exercise of its power to regulate such commerce.
Those relating to the Railroad Labor Board-they are
in Title III-may be summarized as clothing the Board
with authority to entertain and decide disputes between
carriers and their employees in respect of wages, grievances, rules or working conditions; as directing that all
parties to such a dispute be accorded a hearing either in
2 See Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
162 U. S. 197, 203-204.
3 Bankers Trust Co. v. Texa.3 & Pacific Ry. Co., 241 U. S. 295, 309.

TEXAS v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
158.

161

Opinion of the Court.

person or by counsel, and as requiring that the decisions
be entered in an appropriate record and that they and all
violations of them be given such publicity as the Board
may indicate.
The provisions relating to the Interstate Commerce
Commission-these are in Title IV-may be summarized
as investing the Commission with a substantial measure
of control or supervision over interstate rates and fares;
over the removal of any undue or unreasonable advantage, preference or prejudice, as between persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand and in interstate commerce on the other, arising from intrastate rates
and fares; over the removal of any undue, unreasonable
or unjust discrimination against interstate commerce
caused by intrastate rates and fares; over the division of
the carriers of the country into territorial groups for
valuation and rate making purposes; over what shall be
regarded as a fair return on the aggregate value of the
property of the carriers in each group; over the maintenance and use of certain reserve and contingent funds to
be set apart from any revenues in excess of such fair return; over the construction and acquisition of new lines
and the extension and abandonment of old ones; over the
pooling of traffic or earnings; over the consolidation of
carriers; over the issue of stocks, bonds and other securities by carriers, and over making the same person a
director or officer of more than one carrier. These provisions contemplate and require in respect of most of
the matters recited that the State wherein the carrier's
line lies shall be notified and accorded a hearing before a
finding or order is made by the Commission.
Other statutes prescribe that orders of the Commission.
other than for the payment of money as reparation. may
be enforced in the district courts at the suit of the Unite, I
States, or may be annulled, set aside or suspended in
the district courts at the suit of any aggrieved party

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

in interest, but that all suits of the latter class shall be
brought against the United States as the principal defendant.
The bill is of unusual length, sixty-five printed pages.
Much of it is devoted to the presentation of an abstract
question of legislative power-whether the matters dealt
with in several of the provisions of Titles III and IV fall
within the field wherein Congress may speak with constitutional authority, or within the field reserved to the several States. The claim of the State, elaborately set forth,
is that they fall within the latter field, and therefore that
the congressional enactment is void. Obviously, this part
of the bill does not present a case or controversy within
the range of the judicial power as defined by the Constitution. It is only where rights, in themselves appropriate
subjects of judicial cognizance, are bing, or about to be,
affected prejudicially by the application or enforcement
of a statute that its validity may be called in question by
a suitor and determined by an exertion of the judicial
power. Georgiav. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, 73, et seq.; Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346,'361; Stearns v. Wood,
236 U. S. 75, 78.
The portion of the bill particularly directed against
the action of the Railroad Labor Board alleges, in effect,
that the Board. proceeding under Title III, has heard
and decided divers disputes over working conditions and
wages between carridrs in Texas and their employees; that
conformably to these decisions the working conditions
have been changed and the wages of the employees materially raised; and that as a result the operating expense of the carriers has been greatly increased, necessity for a larger operating income has arisen, rates and
fares have been raised accordingly, and producers, shippers and consumers have been and are being injuriously
affected.
Even if these allegations, in connection with other parts
of the bill, 'could be regarded as presenting a concrete

TEXAS v. INTERSTATE COM. COMM.
158.

163

Opinion of the Court.

controversy turning on the validity of Title III, this
would not enable us to entertain the suit. The bill makes
it plain that the carriers and employees have put the
Board's decisions into effect and have adjusted their relations on that basis. There are none to whom the controversy would be of such immediate concern as to them;
and, should it be resolved against the validity of Title III
and the Board's action annulled, their interests would
be directly and unavoidably affected. They are not parties to the bill; nor do any of those who are parties represent them. The. Board does not claim to do so; and the
attitude of the State is antagonistic to them. To take
up and solve the controversy without their presence and
without their being represented would be quite inadmissible, considering the exceptional nature of our original
jurisdiction. Californiav. Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S.
229, 257; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S.
199, 245. If their citizenship be such that they cannot
be brought into the suit consistently with the limitations
on our original jurisdiction', this does not justify us in
proceeding in their absence. The cases just cited leave
no doubt on this point.
The portion of the bill particularly directed against
the action of the Interstate Commerce Commission
charges, in substance, that the Commission, proceeding
under Title IV, has placed the carriers of Texas in a
territorial rate group with carriers of other States where
railroad construction and operation are attended with
greater cost, has approved a general increase in the interstate rates and fares of carriers in that group, has directed
a corresponding increase in the intrastate rates and fares
of carriers in Texas, has authorized the abandonment by
certain carriers of their lines within the State, and has
exercised a supervision over the issue of stocks, bonds
and other securities by carriers chartered by the State;all of' which orders, it is alleged, impinge on the powers
9544*-23-14

OCTOBER TERM. 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

reserved to the State and subject its citizens to unnecessary expense and great inconvenience.
If the State have a right to sue to annul these orders,
a familiar rule requires that it shall proceed with due regard for the rights of the carriers who have put the orders
into effect and are conforming to them. On the question
whether the orders are invalid and should be annulled, or
are valid and should be upheld, the carriers are entitled
to be heard. Their interests are directly involved and
will be necessarily affected by the outcome. They are
not parties to the bill, and as to all but one the bill makes
it clear that their citizenship is an obstacle to making
them such. This, without more, would preclude us from
awarding any relief on this portion of the bill. California
v. Souihern Pacific Co., sapra; M11innesota v. Northern
Securities Co., supra. Besides, there are statutory provisionF, before noticed, which direct that all suits to set
aside, Pnnul or suspend orders of. the Commission be
brought in the District Courts and the United States made
a defendant. Jud. Code, §§ 207, 208, 211; Act of October
22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 219-220. These provisions were
recently considered by us in a related case and it was
there held that the public policy which they reflect requires that a State aggrieved by such an order be remitted to the remedy which they afford-a suit in the
District Court in which the United States is made a party.
North' Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co.,
257 U. S.485.
Some emphasis is laid on two statements in the billone that the State owns an intrastate railroad 33.55 miles
in length and operates the same as a common carrier, and
the other that it is a shipper of freight and user of passenger transportation over other lines in both interstate
and intrastate commerce. Apparently the only purpose of
these statements is to show that the State has such an
interest as entitles it to call in question the orders of the
Commission dealin with rates and fares. At all events,

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.

165

Syllabus.

158.

the bill does not connect them with any of the other questions sought to be presented or predicate any other claim
to relief on them They therefore are covered by the ruling that suits to set aside, annul or suspend the Commission's orders should be brought in the District Courts
where all proper parties, including the United States, may
be made defendants and accorded an appropriate hearing.
What has been said suffices to show that we are not at
liberty to entertain the bill in the exercise of our limited
original jurisdiction.
In passing it should be observed that some of the provisions of the Transportation Act, assailed by the bill,
have recently been upheld in other cases brought before
us in regular course on appeal from decrees in the District Courts. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563;
New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591.
Bill dismissed.
NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, ET AL. v. CONSOLIDATED GAS
COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY OF NEW YORK
v. NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY OF NEW YORK
v. NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 257, 258 and 288.

Argued November 17, 18, 1921.-Decided
March 6, 1922.

1. The copying into the record, contrary to Equity Rules 75 and 76,
of voluminous stenographic reports of proceedings before a master,
useless exhibits and other matter irrelevant to the appeal, is an

