ALASKA v. TROY.
Statement of the Case.

TERRITORY OF ALASKA ET AL. v. TROY, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
ALASKA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA, DIVISION NO. 1.

No. 392. Argued December 14, 15, 1921.-Decided February 27,
1922.
1. Alaska has been incorporated into and is part of the United
States; and the Constitution, so far as applicable, is controlling
upon Congress when legislating ini respect thereto. P. 110.
2. Section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, forbidding, with exceptions, transportation of merchandise over routes between points
within the United States in vessels not built in the United States
or documented under its laws and owned by its citizens, is a regulation of commerce and not within § 8 of Art. I of the Constitution
requiring uniformity throughout the United States of duties, imposts and excises. P. 110.
3. Alaska is not a State, within § 9 of Art. I of the Constitution, declaring "No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another."
P. 111. Dowes y. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, considered.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the District of Alaska sustaining a demurrer to, and dismissing, the amended complaint, in a
suit brought by the Territory and the Juneau Hardware
Company to restrain the local Collector of Customs from
confiscating merchandise, shipped or to be shipped by the
Hardware Company or others in Alaska, from points in
the United States over Canadian Railroads to Canadian
ports, and thence to Alaska by British vessels not authorized under § 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, or
merchandise to be shipped in like manner from Alaska to
the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

258 U. S.

Mr. John Rustgard, Attorney General of the Territory
of Alaska, for appellants.
Equal rights to trade and commerce and the equal
right of access to the ports and markets of the various
States are among property rights of citizens of the United
States guaranteed to the people of Alaska. by the treaty
of cession. They are "privileges and immunities."
Arts. of Confederation IV; Const., Art IV, § 2; SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall.
35; Lochner v. United States, 198 U. S. 45.
When the people of the Territory of Alaska were admitted to the rights, privileges and immunities of American citizens, and when it was guaranteed to them that
they should be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their property, it comprehended, not only
the equal right to life and liberty, but the equal right to
trade and commerce, the equal right of ingress and egress
to and from the several States,-these being indispensable
property rights. Nothing less is meant by the right to
equal protection of the laws.
Independently of the treaty, Congress has expressly
extended the Constitution to Alaska, first by § 1891, Rev.
Stats., and later by § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1912, and
this court has declared in several decisions that Alaska
has been incorporated into the United States and forms
an integral part thereof.
For this reason cl. 6, § 9, Art. I, of the Constitution
protects the ports of Alaska to the same extent that it protects the ports of a State. Loughborough v. Blake, 5
Wheat. 317; Rassmussen v. United States, 197 U. S. 516;
Binns v. United States; 194 U. S. 486.
It is conceded that the prohibition of this clause against
discrimination by regulation of revenue applies to and protects an incorporated Territory. This protection would
be futile unless it was accompanied by an inhibition
against discrimination by regulation of commerce, and for

ALASKA v. TROY.
101.

-

Argument for Appellants.

that reason the two are joined in the same clause. The
history of the adoption of this clause of the Constitution
demonstrates that, like the clause requiring uniformity of
duties, it was intended to apply to the entire "American
Empire." Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 107.
In the Insular Cases this court held that the clause in
question would have operated1 to"protect Portb Rico had
that Territory been incorporated into the United States,
the same as is Alaska, or had Congress expressly extended
the Constitution to that island. Downes v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 244, 249, 288, 292, 352, 354.
The word '" State" as employed in the Constitution is
frequently interpreted by this court to include a Territory. ,For instance, in the el. 3 of § 8 where authority is
given "to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the several States, and with the Indian tribes," this
court has held it applies to commerce between a State and
a Territory. Similar results have been obtained from construction of cl. 5, § 9, Art. I; cl. 1 and 2, § 10; el. 1, § 2,
Art. IV, and the Fourteenth Amendment. In dealing with
an incorporated Territory, Congress may act as a federal
legislature or as a local legislature. Acting as a federal
legislature it is bound by the general limitations of the
Constitution. Acting as a local legislature it has such
powers as are possessed by a state legislature, but no more.
The law here in question was enacted by Congress in
its federal capacity and under the commerce clause. Laws
enacted under that power must be uniform and deal
equally with all.
Whether acting as a federal or a territorial legislature,
Congress has no power to deny the people of any Territory to which the Constitution has been extended the same
rights of commerce accorded to the people of other parts
of the country. See Passenger Cases, 7 How. 492;
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 360; Dred Scott v. Sandford,
1Q How. 393; United States v. Morris, Fed. Cas. No.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 U.S.

15,815; Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15; Dooley v.
United.States, 183 U. S. 151, 168, 171, 172, 173; Pope v.
Williams, 193 U. S. 632; United States v. Anthony, Fed.
Cas. No. 14,459; Stone v. Smith, 159 Mass. 414; Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S. 141.
Clause 2 of § 3, Art. IV, was not intended to in any
manner deny to the people of a Territory the rights of
American citizens, but was intended to give Congress
power to deal with internal affairs of the embryo States
until they were able to assume the duties of their own
sovereignty. This section of the Constitution must be
read in conjunction with the Ordinance of 1787 which remained in full force and effect after the Constitution: was
adopted, and has been construed as applicable to all the
Territories incorporated into the Union after the adoption
of the Constitution. Meigs, The Growth of thb Constitution in the Federal Convention of 1787; Spooner v. McConnell, Fed. Cas. No. 13,245; Cincinnativ. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 390; Choisser v. Hargraves,
2 Ill. 317; Palmer v. Cuyahoga County, Fed. Cas. No.
10,688.
It is not necessary to allege in the complaint that the
rate tariffs had been filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission or that the latter has established through
rates.
The entire § 27 of the Act of 1920 is void because it
discriminates in favor of that part of the United States
which is on-the continent and situated between Canada
and Mexico. The executive departments can not render
it valid by extending the law to the Territories which it
expressly jxcludes. Nor can the courts render the law
constitutional by giving it an interpretation which Congress expressly provides that it should not have.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck for appellee.
An examination of each reference in the Constitution
to the States shows that with but few exceptions the word

ALASKA v. TROY.
101.

Argument for Appellee.

"State" was intended to be construed literally. It must
be admitted that in the commerce clause" among the several States" imported a sphere of power that was in part
beyond the State, and the words "with the Indian tribes,"
most of which then lived in the Territories, clearly show
that power was given to the Congress to regulate all commerce, except that which was wholly within a State.
Hence, commerce with the Territories is expressly included
in this grant of power. And it must also be admitted
that in the matter of the fundamental personal rights of
the individual, his rights were safeguarded by the pertinent provisions of the Constitution and the amendments,
no matter where he might be under our flag.
But, in general, it is clear that the term" State," or " the
several States," has a precise and definite signification,
and that the word "Territory" has a similar precise
meaning.
There is also a clear and distinct difference between the
meaning of the word "State" in the original Constitution, which concerned itself almost wholly with the distribution of powers between the Federal Government and
the States, and the amendments to the Constitution, the
first ten of which were intended as a Bill of Rights to
guarantee the liberty of the individual.
If in the clause of the Constitution which provides that
no preference shall be given "to the ports of one State
over those of another" it had been intended to refer to the
Territories, would not the clause have read" no preference
shall be given by any regulation of' commerce or revenue
to any port in the United States "?
It is quite obvious that the economic question as to
how Congress shall regulate foreign and interstate commerce by regulating ports of entry is not, in any true
sense, a question of personal right. It is an economic
and political question, which concerns States and not individuals. "What is forbidden, is not discrimination

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 V. S.

between individual ports within the same or different
States, but discrimination between States." Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421,
435.
The remainder of the clause-" Nor shall vessels bound
to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay
duties in another "-shows also that this clause of the
Constitution was placed there for the protection of the
States. The immunity from discrimination is a reserved
right on the part of the constituent States and does not
pertain to individual ports, much less to individual persons.
Outside of the States and in the Territories and
colonial dependencies of the United States, the question
of uniform treatment of ports of entry is one of governmental policy. It is well known that the purpose of
this provision was to allay the alarm of the various States,
if the plenary power over foreign commerce was granted
to the Federal Government.
There was an obvious reason why they did not extend
this assurance of equal terms to the ports of a Territory.
They did not have in mind ports of a Territory, for none
such existed. The "Territory" contained no "port" in
the sense of the word in which the framers used the term.
This becomes the more obvious if it be recalled that the
original conception of the commerce clause related only to
commerce by vessels, whether trans-Atlantic or coastwise.
It is quite clear that internal land transportation was not
at first regarded as a part of the commercial power of the
Union. Perrinv. Sikes, 1 Day (Conn.) 19; 2 McMaster,
History of the American People, p. 60. Cf. Con'way v.
Taylor's Executor, 1 Black, 603.
Moreover, the clear distinction of governmental power
between States and Territories must constantly be borne
in mind. As to the States, there was only a limited delegation of power, subject to many reservations and quali-

ALASKA v. TROY.
101.

Argument for Appellee.

fications. As to the Territory, there was a plenary power
to deal with it as the property of the United States, to the
extent even of disposing of it at the pleasure of the Federal Government.
The reason which impelled the framers of the Constitution to separate the clause now under consideration, with
respect to preferential treatment of ports, from that which
refers to uniformity of taxation, and the addition of the
words "of revenue" in the former clause, when the latter
provision, by its requirement of uniformity of taxes
throughout the United States, effectually prevented the
imposition by the Federal Government of different duties
at different ports, are explained when due consideration
is given to the fundamental distinction, which the framers
of the Constitution always had in mind, between a tax
that was levied as a mere regulation of commerce-and not
for revenue and a pure revenue tax. Today, that distinction has been almost wholly lost sight of in discussing the
constitutional questions which underlay the American
Revolution; and yet no distinction was more clearly recognized by the men of that era or more tenaciously adhered to.
The phrase "taxation without representation" had reference to taxes, which were levied upon the colonists for
the purpose of revenue. Chief Justice Marshall referred to
this distinction in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 12. His
remarks are fully borne out by history; and the classification of import duties into r'evenue duties and regulations of
commerce lay at the basis of the American doctrine which
led to the Revolutionary War. We may refer to the journals of the Continental Congress, vol. I, pp. 28, 175, 176;
vol. II, p. 189; the examination of Dr. Benjamin Franklin
at the bar of the House of Commons on February 7, 1776,
1 Bigelow's Life of Franklin, pp. 478, 479; John Dickinson's Letters from a Farmer, published in 1768, pp. 15,
18-19, 37-42, 43, note, 60, 61, 66; Dr. Franklin's letter to

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 U. S.

Joseph Galloway of February 25, 1775, 8 Spark's Franklin's Works, p. 147; John Adams' letter to Jay of July 19,
1785, Works of John Adams, vol. 8, pp. 282, 283. The
same view was maintained by the leading jurists and
statesmen of the first two generations after the adoption
of the Constitution; and with practical unanimity they
based the protective tariff duties on the commerce clause
of the Constitution. 1 Story on the Constitution, § 963;
2 id., 1080, et seq.; James Madison's letter to Joseph C.
Cabell of March 22, 1827, Writings of James Madison,
Lippincott ed., vol. 3, p. 571; his letter to Cabell of
September 18, 1828, id., p. 636; Henry Clay's reply to
Barbour, March 31, 1824, Annals of Congress, p. 1994;
Gulian C. Verplanck's Letter to Drayton, New York,
1831, pp. 21-23; Speech of Thomas Smith Grimk6, etc.,
Charleston, 1829, p. 51.
In the proceedings of the Constitutional Convention,
the clause in controversy was removed from the clause
which required uniformity of taxation and attached to the
clause which forbade any State to impose an export
duty. It seems clear that they separated the two clauses
because of the distinction referred to. Would it not be
most inadvisable to hold that the Constitution requires
that the United States, in whatever exercise of world
power it may hereafter assume, shall deal with all ports
of entry which are subject to its jurisdiction with absolute
equality?
If the Fathers had anticipated the control of the United
States over the far-distant Philippine Islands, would
they, whose concern was the reserved rights of the States,
have, considered for a moment a project that any special
privilege which the interests of the United States might
require for the ports of entry of the several States should,
by compulsion, be extended to ports of entry of colonial
dependencies, living in a different civilization and having
economic interests which might be wrecked by the application of the rule of equality?

ALASKA v. TROY.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McRYNOjDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In the court below appellants' bill was dismissed upon
demurrer. It attacks the validity of § 27, Merchant
Marine Act of June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 988,1 upon
the ground that the. regulation of commerce prescribed
therein gives a preference to -ports of the Pacific Coast
States over those of Alaska, contrary to § 9, Art. I, Federal
Constitution--." No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State
over those of another."
The act purports among other things" to provide for
the promotion and maintenance of the American merchant marine,' and § 27 forbids transportation of mer' Act of June 5, 1920.-To provide for the promotion aTid maintenance of the American merchant marine, to repeal certain emergency
legislation, and provide for the disposition, regulation, and use of
property acquired thereunder, and for other purposes.
Sec. 27. That no merchandise shall be.transported by"water, or by
land and water, on penalty of forfeiture thereof, between points in
the United States, including Districts, Territories, and possessions
thereof embraced within the coastwise laws, either directly or via a
foreign port, or for any part of the transportatioil, in any other vessel
than a vessel built in and documented under the laws of the United
States and owned by persons who are citizens of the United States,
or vessels to which the privilege of engaging in the coastwise trade is
extended by sections 18 or 22 of this Act: Provided, That this section
shall not apply to me'rchandise transported between points witfiin the
continental United States, excluding Alaska, over through routes
heretofore or hereafter recognized by the Interstate Commerce Commission for which routes rate tariffs have been or shall hereafter be
filed with said commission when such routes are in part over Canadian
rail lines and their own or other connecting water facilities: Provided
further, That this section shall not become effective upon the Yukon
river until the Alaska Railroad-shall be completed and the Shipping
Board shall find that proper facilities will be furnished for transportation by persons citizens of the United States for properly
handling the traffic.
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

chandise over any portion of the route between points
in the United States including Alaska "in any other
vessel than a vessel built in and documented under the
laws of the United States and owned by persons who are
citizens of the United States, or vessels to which the
privilege of engaging in the coastwise trade is extended
by sections 18 or 22 of this Act," provided that under certain conditions this limitation shall not apply to merchandise transported between points within the United
States, excluding Alaska, over through routes by Canadian rail lines and connecting water facilities.
The bill assumes that the preference is obvious upon a
consideration of the statute without more. And although
by fostering lines of boats which afford frequent, regular
and speedy service, and otherwise, the practical effect
may be highly beneficial to Alaskan ports, nevertheless,
in view of the record, we will assume that the act does
give preference to ports of the States over those of the
Territory.
Alaska has been incorporated into and is part of the
United States, and the Constitution, so far as applicable,
is controlling upon Congress when legislating in respect
thereto. Rassmussen. v. United States, 197 U. S. 516,
525, 528. It has been organized and is governed under
appropriate congressional action. For present purposes,
therefore, we need not inquire into the object and scope
.of the-treaty of cession.
The questioned regulation relates directly to commerce
and clearly is not within the bsual meanng of the words
of § 8, Art. I, of the Constitution-"Al duties, imposts
and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States." That such regulations are not controlled by the
uniformity clause was pointed out in Cooley v. Board of
Wardens of Port of Philadelphia,12 How. 299, 314:
"But, having previously stated that, in this instance,
the law complained of does not pass the appropriate line

ALASK A v. TROY.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

which limits laws for the regulation of pilots and pilot-

age, the suggestion, that this law levies a duty on tonnage
or on imports or exports, is not admissible; and, if so, it
also follows, that this law is not repugnant to the first
clause of the eighth section of the first article of the Constitution, which declares that all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States; for,
if it is not to be deemed a law levying a duty, impost, or
excise, the. want of uniformity throughout the United
States is not objectionable."
The appellants insist that "State" in the preference
clause includes an incorporated and organized territory.
This word appears very often in the Constitution and as
generally used therein it clearly excludes a "Territory."
To justify the broad meaning now suggested would require considerations more cogent than any which have
been suggested. Obviously, the best interests of a detached territory may often demand that its ports be
treated very differently from those within the States.
And we can find nothing in the Constitution itself or its
history which compels the conclusion that it was intended
to deprive Congress of power so to act. See Pennsylvania
v. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421; Knowlton v.Moore, 178 U. §. 41, 107,
Great weight is attributed to certain statements concerning the preference clause found in the several opinions announced in Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.244, 249,
288, 352, 354, 355. But nonr of these opinions -was accepted by a majority ef the eaurt and statiments therein
are not binding upon us. That controversy grew but of
a revenue measure and the point now presented was not
directly involved. The writers used the language relied
upon in arguments intended to support their particular
views concerning the fundamental points. Without attempting to ascertain the exact purport of these expressions it suffices to say that they afford no adequate support for appellants' position.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U.S.

A quotation from the opinion of the court in Rassmuzsen v. United States, 197 U. S. 516, 520, is apposite: "In Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S.138, the question
was whether the Sixth Amendment was controlling upon
Congress in legislating for the Philippine Islands. Applying the principles which caused a majority of the
judges who concurred in Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244,
to think that the uniformity clause of the Constitution
was inapplicable to Porto Rico, and following the ruling
announced in Hawaiiv. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, it was
decided that, whilst by the treaty with Spain the Philippine Islands had come under the sovereignty of the
United States and were subject to its control as a dependency or possession, those Islands had not been incorporated into the United States as a part thereof, and
therefore Congress, in legislating concerning thefn, was
subject only to the provisions of the Constitution applicable to territory occupying that relation."
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

BANK OF JASPER v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
ROME, GEORGIA.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF JASPER, FLORIDA, v.
STATE BANK OF ROME, GEORGIA.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF JASPER, FLORIDA, v.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF ROME, GEORGIA.
BANK OF JASPER v. STATE BANK OF ROME,
GEORGIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 76, 73, 74, 77.

Argued January 12, 1922.-Decided February
27, 1922.

1. Under the law of Florida, an appeal to the State Supreme Court,
taken solely to review an interlocutory order overruling a motion

