UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
433.

451

Syllabus.

state prison or penitentiary and the expression in the
opinion concerning imprisonment at hard labor must be
understood as referring to such.
But even if imprisonment at hard labor elsewhere than
in a penitentiary had, in the past, been deemed an infamous punishment, it would not follow that confinement,
or rather service, at a workhouse like Occoquan, under
the conditions now prevailing should be deemed so. As
stated in Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 427, and in
Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348, 351: "What punishments shall be considered as infamous may be affected
by the changes of public opinion from one age to another."
Such changes may result from change in the conditions in
which, or in the purpose for which, a punishment is prescribed. The Constitution contains no reference to hard
labor. The prohibition contained in the Fifth Amendment refers to infamous crimes-a term obviously inviting
interpretation in harmony with conditions and opinion
prevailing from time to time. And today commitment to
Occoquan for a short term for non-support of minor children is certainly not an infamous punishment.
UNITED SHOE MACHINERY CORPORATIQN ET
AL. v. UNITED STATES:
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 119. Argued March 7, 8, 9, 1921; restored to docket for reargument June 6, 1921; reargued January 17, 18, 1922.-Decided April
17, 1922.
1. A presumption of correctness attends the findings of fact made by
the trial judge in an equity case after reading the evidence. P.
455.
2. In a smt under the Clayton Act to enjoin the use of restrictive
covenants in leases of machinery, inserted for the benefit of the
lessor, the lessees are held not indispensable parties. P. 456.
9544*-23-----32

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

3. The appellant corporation controlled a large part of the trade of
supplying certain classes of machinery used in the United States in
the manufacture of shoes, which it furnished to the manufacturer
under a system of leases in which were restrictive clauses providing, (1) that leased machines performing certain operations should
not be used on shoes upon which certain other operations had not
been performed by machines of the lessor; (2) that as to certain
kinds, if the lessor's machines were not used exclusively, the leases
should be forfeitable; (3) for purchase of supplies exclusively from
the lessor; (4) that leased insole machines should only be used
on shoes upon which certain other operations were done by lessor's
machines; (5) that failure of the lessee to take additional machines
of certain kinds from the lessor would forfeit the right to retain
machines already leased; (6) for payment of a royalty on shoes
operated upon by competing machines; (7) for a lower royalty
where the lessee agreed not to use certain machines on shoes lasted
on machines not leased from the lessor: the lessor reserving the
right to cancel any lease for breach of any provision in that or any
oth6r lease or license agreement between the parties, irrespective
of previous breaches;, unnoticed, waived or condoned. Held, That,
although there was no specific agreement not to use machinery of
a competitor, the practical effect of these restrictive provisions,
thus tied together, was to prevent such use and necessarily to
lessen competition and to tend to create monopoly, in violation of
§ 3 of the Clayton Act. P. 456.
4. A decree is an estoppel between the same parties in a second suit
only when rendered on the same cause of action; or where, the
causes of action being different, a point or issue determined in the
first suit is sought to be relitigated in the second. P. 458.
5. The effect of a former decree as an estoppel is ascertained from
the issues made by the pleadings and the questions essential to the
decision as shown by the record, and not from isolated expressions
of the court's opinion. P. 460.
6. This being a suit to enjoin the use of restrictions in leases of machioery as violating § 3 of the Clayton Act, which expressly applies
to patented as well as unpatented machines and prohibits leases the
effect of which "may" be substantially to lessen competition or
tend to create monopoly, the Government is not estopped by the
adverse decree, in its former suit (247 U. S. 32) seeking to dissolve
the defendant corporation as a combination and monopoly forbidden
by the Sherman Act, wherein the leases here in controversy also
were attacked as contracts violating that act and were held not so

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
451.

453

Counsel for Parties.

in view of the patent law, but where their validity under the Clayton Act was not and could not have been involved. P. 459.
7. A patent secures the right to exclude others from making, using or
vending the thing patented without the permission of the patent
owner, but does not exempt him from regulations consistent with
those rights, made by Congress in the public interest, forbidding
agreements which may lessen competition or build up mohiopoly in
interstate, trade. P. 463.
8. Section 3 of the Clayton Act is consistent with patent rights antedating the act and does not deprive their owners of property without due process of law. P. 462.
9. In a suit to enjoin use of lease provisions found violative of the
Clayton Act, held not a defense that an alternative form of lease,
claimed to be unobjectionable, was offered the lessees or that the
lessor after enactment of the statute adopted a form of temporary
agreement not containing the clauses in controversy. P. 464.
10. Leases of machines made in connection with and as a part of a
transaction involving shipment of the machines from one State to
the user in another, are made in interstate commerce and subject to
the control of Congress exerted in § 3 of the Clayton Act. P. 465.
264 Fed. 138, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the appellants from the use of certain restrictive 'clauses,
found violative of § 3 of he Act of October 15, 1914,
c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, in leases of shoe machinery in interstate commerce, executed since the passage of that act,
or to be made in the future.
Mr. Charles F. Choate, Jr., and Mr. Frederick P. Fish,
with whom Mr. Malcolm Donald and Mr. Henry W. Dunn

were on the briefs, for appellants.'
'At the former hearing the case was argued for the appellants by
Messrs. Charles F. Choate, Jr., Frederick P. Fish and Cordenio A:
Severance, with Messrs. Malcolm Donald, Frank W. Knowlton, Henry
W. Dunn and James Garfield on the briefs, and for the United States
by Messrs. La Rue Brown, Leo A. Rogers and Elias Field, with
8liitor General Friersonon the brief.
The arguments can not be adequately represented within the small
space allowable here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U.S.

Mr. La Rue Brown and Mr. Elias Field, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor
General Beck was on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by tlie United States against the
defendants, United Shoe Machinery Company (of Maine),
United Shoe Machinery Corporation, United Shoe Machinery Company (of New Jersey), -and the officers and
directors of these corporations, under the provisions of the
Clayton Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 731, 736,
to enjoin them from making leases containing certain
clauses, terms and conditions alleged to be violative of
the act. Issues were made up, testimony taken, and a
decree granted by the District Court enjoining the use of
certain clauses in the leases. 264 Fed. 138. From that
decree the present appeal was prosecuted to this court.
The record embraces twenty-seven volumes of printed
matter and four volumes of exhibits. The summary of
testimony compiled by the defendants contains more than
one thousand pages. Much of it has but little bearing
on. the real issues to be decided, and so much as was essential might well have been embraced within a much narrower compass than is contained in the voluminous"record
now before us.
Section.3 of the Clayton Act, so far as pertinent, makes
it unlawful for persons engaged in interstate commerce
in the course of such commerce to lease machinery, supplie.s or other commodities, whether patented or unpatented, for use, consumption or resale within the United
States, or to fix a price therefor, or to discount from, or
rebate upon, such price upon the condition, agreement or
understanding that the lessee thereof shall not use or deal
in the machinery, supplies*or other commodities of the
competitor or competitors of the lessor, where the effect

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v.UNITED STATES.
451.

455

Opinion of the Court.

of such lease, agreement or understanding may be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly.
The trial judge states that he took the time necessary
to read and examine this voluminous 'ecord, and from it in
the course of his opinion he makes certain findings of fact.
These fiidings are entitled to the presumption of correctness which is given to the conclusions of a chancellor
reached upon consideration of conflicting evidence, and
we may add that in this case the opinion gives evidence of
careful and painstaking research.
Our own examination of the testimony gives little
occasion to modify the findings of fact made by the District Court. The record discloses that the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation, hereinafter called the United
Company, controlled a very large portion of the business
of supplying shoe machinery of the classes involved in
this case. The court below found that it controlled more
than 95% of such business in the United States. Whether
this finding is precisely correct it is immaterial to inquire.
It is evident from this record that the United Company
occupies a dominant position in the production of such
machinery and makes and supplies throughout the United
States a very large percentage of such machinery used by
manufacturers.
It may be conceded at the outset, and was so found in
the court below, that the company did not act oppressively in the enforcement of-the forfeiture clauses of the
leases. It is established that it furnishes machines of excellent quality; that it renders valuable services in the
installation of machines, instructions to opei'ators,
promptr--s in furnishing machines when desired by
manufacturers, and is expeditious in making repairs and
replacements when necessary so to do. The machines of
the United Company 'are protected by patents granted
prior to the passage of the Clayton Act, and the validity
of none of them is called in question here.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

It is contended that the suit must fail for want of necessary parties in as much as the lessees were not brought
into it; that they were necessary parties because their
rights were necessarily adjudicated in enjoining the enforcement of the contracts involved. But we agree with.,
the District Court that the lessees were not indispensable
or even necessary parties. The relation of indispensable
parties to the suit must be such that rno decree can
be entered in the case which will do justice to the
parties before the court without injuriously affecting the
rights of absent parties. 1 Street's Equity Practice, § 519,
quoted with approval in Waterman v. Canal-Louisiana
Bank Co., 215 U. S. 33, in which case the formdr adjudications in this court are cited and considered. The covenants enjoined were inserted for the benefit of the lessor,
and were of such restrictive character that no right of the
lessee could be injuriously affected by the injunction
which was -prayed in the case. We are of opinion that
their presence was not necessary to a decision.
Turning to the decree, it will be found that the court
enjoined the use of (1) the restricted use clause, which
provides that the leased machinery shall not, nor shall
any part thereof, be used upon shoes, etc., or portions,
thereof, upon which certain other operations have not
been performed on other machines of the defendants; (2)
the exclusive use clause, which provides that if the lessee
fails to use exclusively machinery of certain kinds made
by the lessor, the lessor shall have the right to cancel the
right to use all such machinery so leased; (3) the supplies
clause, which provides that the lessee shall purchase
supplies exclusively from the lessor; (4) the patent insole clause, which provides that the lessee shall only use
machinery leased on shoes which have had .certain other
operations performed upon them by the defendants'
machines; (5) the additional machinery clause, which provides that the lessee shall take all additional machinery for

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v.UNITED STATES.
451.

457

Opinion of the Court.

certain kinds of work from the lessor or lose his right to
retain the machines which he has already leased; (6) the
factory output clause, which requires the payment of a royalty on shoes operated upon by machines made by competitors; (7) the discriminatory royalty clause, providing
lower royalty for lessees who agree not to use certain machiriery on shoes lasted on machines other than those leased
from the lessor. The defendant's restrictive form of leases
embraces the right of the lessor to cancel a lease for the
breach of a provision in such lease, or in any other lease
or license agreement between the lessor and the lessee.
The lessor in such case is given the right, by notice in writing to the lessee, to terminate any and all leases or licenses
then in force to use the machinery and this notwithstanding previous breaches or defaults may have been unnoticed, waived, or condoned by or on behalf of the lessor.
The District Court held that the United Company had
the right to cancel a lease for a violation of the terms of
the particular lease, but' could not, without violating the
act reserve the right to cancel a lease because the lessee
had violated the terms of some other lease. This part of
the decree must be read in the light of the circumstances
shown as to the necessity of procuring shoe machinery
from the United Company, and the danger of a lessee losing his ability to continue business by a forfeiture incurred from the breach of a single covenant in one lease.
While the clauses enjoined do not contain specific agreements not to use the machinery -of a competitor of the
lessor, the practical effect of these drastic provisions is to
prevent such use. We can entertain no doubt that such
provisions as were -enjoined are embraced in the broad
terms of the Clayton Act which cover all conditions, agreements or understandings of this nature. That such restrictive and tying agreements must necessarily lessen
competition and tend to monopoly is, we believe, equally
aiDarent. When it is considered that the United Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U.S.

pany occupies a dominating position in supplying shoe machinery of the classes involved, these covenants signed by
the lessee and binding upon him effectually prevent him
from acquiring the machinery of a competitor of the lessor
except at the risk of forfeiting the right to use the machines furnished by the United Company which may be
absolutely essential to the prosecution and success of his
business.
This system of "tying" restrictions is quite as effective
as express covenants could be and practically compels the
use of the machinery of the lessor except upon risks which
manufacturers will not willingly incur. It is true that the
record discloses that in many instances these provisions
were not enforced. In some cases they were. In frequent
instances it was sufficient to call the attention of the lessee
to the fact that they were contained in the lease to insure
a compliance with their provisions. The power to enforce
them is omnipresent and their restraining influence constanfly operates upon competitors and lessees. The fact
that the lessor in many instances forebore to enforce these
provisions does not make them any less agreements within
the condemnation of the Clayton Act.
It is contended that the decree in favor of the defendants affirmed in the former suit of the Government under
the Sherman Act, 247 U. S. 32, between the same parties,
is res judicata of the issues in the present case.
Perhaps the leading case in this court upon the subject
of estoppel by former judgment is Cromwell v. County of
Sac, 94 U. S. 351, 352, in which this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Field, laid down the general rule of law, which
has been followed in subsequent cases:
c* *
there is a difference between the effect of a
judgment as a bar or estoppel against the prosecution of
a second action upon the same claim or demand, and its
effect as an estoppel in another action between the same
parties upon a different claim or cause of action. * In the

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
451.

459

Opinion of the Court.

former case, the judgment, if rendered upon the merits,
constitutes an absolute bar to a subsequent action,
. . . concluding parties and those in privity with
them, not only as to every matter which was offered and
received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as
to any other admissible matter which might have been
. But where the second
offered for that purpose. .
action between the same parties is tipon a different claim
or demand, the judgment in the prior action operates as
an estoppel only as to those matters in issue or points
controverted, upon the determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered. In all cases, therefore, where
it is sought to apply the estoppel of a judgment rendered
upon one cause of action to matters arising in a suit upon
a different cause of action, the inquiry must always be as
to the point or question actually litigated and deterrined
in the original action, not what might have been .hus
litigated and determined."
In other words, to determine the effect of a former
judgment pleaded as an estoppel, two questions must be
answered: (1) Was the former judgment rendered on the
same-cause of action? (2) If not, was some matter litigated in the former suit determinative of the' matter in
controversy in the second suit? To answer these questions we must look to the pleadings making the issues.
and examine the record to determine the questions essential to the decision of the former controversy.
The Sherman Act suit had for its object the dissolution
of the United Company, which had been formed by the
union of other shoe machinery compaiies. it also attacked and sought to enjoin the use of the restrictive and
tying clauses contained in the leases as being in themselves contracts in violation of the Sherman Act. The
Sherman Act and the Clayton Act provide different tests
of liability. This was determined in the recent case of
Standard Fashion Co. v. Magrane-Houston Co., ante,

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

346. In that case we pointed out that the Clayton Act
was intended to supplement the Sherman Act, and within
its limited sphere established its own rule. Under the
.Sherman Act, as interpreted by this court before the
passage of the Clayton Act, contracts were prohibited
which undily restrain the natural flow of interstate commerce, or which materially interrupt the free exercise of
competition in the channels of interstate trade. In the
second section monopolization or attempts to monopolize interstate trade were condemned. The Clayton Act
(§ 3) prohibits contracts of sale, or leases made upon
the condition, agreement or understanding that the purchaser or lessee shall not deal in or use the goods of a
competitor of the seller or lessor where-the effect of such
lease, sale, or contract, or such condition, agreement or
understanding "may" be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create monopoly. The cause of action
is therefore not the same.
That the leases were attacked under' the former bill as
violative of the Sherman Act is true, but they were sustained as valid and binding agreements within the rights
of holders of patents. The Clayton Act specifically applies to goods, wares, machinery, etc., whether "patented
or unpatented." This provision was inserted in the Clayton Act with the express purpose of preventing rights
granted by letters patent from securing immunity from
the inhibitions of the act. The determination of the questions now raised under the Clayton Act was not essential
to the former decision. The defendants in their argument seize upon isolated passages in the opinion of the
court in the former case, and c6ntend that they are decisive here. But the effect of the former judgment as an
estoppel is not to be thus determined. Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259, 269, and cases therein cited. In the
Sherman Act case the issues were clearly stated in the
prevailing opinion of this court (247 U. S. 35, 38): "The

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v.UNITED STATES.
451.

461

Opinion of the Court.

charge of the bill is that defendants, not being satisfied
with the monopoly of their patents and determined to
extend it, conceived the idea of acquiring the ownership
or control of all concerns engaged in the manufactue of
all kinds of .hoe machinery. This purpose was achieved,
it is charged, and a monopoly acquired, and commerce,
interstate and foreign, restrained by the union of competing companies and the acquisition of others. And that
leases were exacted which completed and assured the control and monopoly thus acquired.
"There are two accusations against the defendants.
One is that at the very outset they combined competing
companies and subsequently acquired others, § 1 of the
Act of 1890 being thereby offended. The other is a monopolization of the trade in violation of § 2 of that act. And
it is charged, as we have said, that certain leases and
license agreements are the instruments which consurnmate
both offenses."
After disposing of the charge adversely to the Government's contention that the union of the preexisting companies, constituting the United Company, was a combination in restraint of trade, the court passed to a consideration of the leases and said (pp. 56, 57):
"There was complaint of them and the Government attacks them. . . . To the attacks of the Government
the defendants reply that the leases are the exercise of their
right as patentees and if there is monopoly in them it is
the monopoly of the right. . . . We must not overestimate the right or give it a sinister effect-permit it to
be the means, to use the words of the Government, ' to the
building up and intrenchment' of an 'illegal monopoly.'
"Of course, there is restraint in a patent. Its strength
is in the restraint, the right to exclude others from the use
of the invention, absolutely or on the terms the patentee
chooses to impose. This strength is the compensation

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
'Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

which the law grants for the exercise of invention. Its
exertion within the field covered by the patent law is not
an offense against the Anti-Trust Act. In other circumstances it may be, as in Standard Sanitary.Mfg. Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 20, to which case that at bar has
n) resemblance.
"The question, then, is, Was the patent right lawfully
exerted in the leases? Were they anything more than the
exercise of the patent monopoly?"
This question the court proceeded to answer in the negative.
The issue whether the restrictive clauses were valid in
view of the provision of the. Clayton Act concerning madhinery patented or unpatented was not and could not
have been involved or decided in the former suit. It is
true that the court speaks of the excellence and efficiency
of the United Company's machinery as a sufficient inducement fo its installatibn by the lesseei and, we may add
that there is much testimony in the record tending to show
that it was the excellence of the United Company's machinery and the efficiency of its service which induced
lessees to acquire its machinery, but these considerations
are apart from the pertinent issues which here confront
us. No matter how good the machines of the United
Company may be, or how efficient its service, it is not at
liberty to lease its nachines upon conditions prohibited
,by a valid law of the United States. Congress has undertaken to deny the protection of patent rights to such
covenants as come within the terms of the Clayton Act,
and if the statute is constitutional, the sole duty of the
court is to enforce it in- accordance with its terms.
-It is contended that the act is an unconstitutional limitation upon the rights secured to a patentee under the laws
of the United States, and that it takes away from the
patentees without due process of law property secured to
them by the grant of the patent. The Folution of this

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
451.

-463

Opinion of the Court.

contention depends upon the nature and extent of the
rights secured under the grant of a patent.
From an early day it has been held by this court that
the franchise secured by a patent consists only in the
right to exclude others from making, using, or vending
the thing patented without the permission of the patefitee.
Bloomer v. McQuewa'n, 14 How. 539. This definition of
the rights of the patentee has been the subject of frequent
recent decisions of this court, dnd has been approved and
applied in Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U, S. 1; Straus v.
Victor Talking Machine Co:, 243 U. S.' 490; Motion Pictitre Patents Co. v. Universal Film Manufacturing Co.,
243 U. S. 502; Boston Store v. American Graphophone
Co., 246 U. S. 8. The subject was given full consideration
in Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Manufacturing Co., supra, in which the former decision of this
court, Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, holding that a
mimeograph made under letters patent might be sold with
a license agreement limiting its use to certain unpatented
articles, was specifically overruled, and it was held that
the patentee received from the law no more than the ex-'
clusive right to make, use and sell the invention. Undoubtedly the patentee has the right to grant the use of
the rights or privileges conferred by his patent to others
by making licenses and agreements with them which are
not in themselves unlawful, but the right to make regulation in the public interest under the police power of the
States or in the exettion of the authority of Congress over
matters within its 'onstitutional power is controlled by
general principles of law, dnd the patent right confers no
privilege to make contracts in themselves illegal, and certainly not to make those directly violative of valid statutes
of the United States. It was held by this court in Stand-'
ard Sanitary 'Manufacturing CO. v. United States, 226
U. S.20, that the rights secured by a patent do rnot protect

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

the making of contracts in restraint ot trade, or. those
which tend to monopolize trade or commerce in violation
of the Sherman Act. That principle was followed with
approval when applied to rights secured under the copyright laws of the United States. Straus v. American Publishers' Association, 231 U. S. 222. The- same conclusionwas reached in a well considered opinion in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts involving a state enactment. Opinion of the Justices, 193 Mass. 605. The same
principle applies to the Clayton Act. The patent grant
does n-t limit the right of Congress to enact legislation not
interfering with the legitimate rights secured by the
patent but prohibiting in the public interest the making
of agreements which may lessen competition and build
up monopoly.
It is further insisted that the suit must fail because
the parties were offered an alternative lease alleged to be
free from the objectionable conditions complained of.
But this lease was only granted upon the lessee making
an initial payment in cash instead of paying the lessor
royalties throughout the term. There is some conflict
in the testimony as to whether the effect of such requirement was so onerous as to compel the lessee to choose
the restricted form of leases. The issue involved here is
whether leases with the restricted clauses in them, the
enforcement of which has been enjoined by the District
Court, were such as to make them violative of the provisions of the"Clayton Act. The fact that a form of lease
was offered which is not the subject of controversy is not
a justification of the use of clauses in other leases which
we find to be violative of the act.
The defendants contend that the form of lease which
they have adopted since the Clayton Act became effective is free from the restrictive and tying clauses, and is,
therefore, unobjectionable, and hence no injunction
should issue. These leases are terminable upon thirty

UNITED SHOE MACH:CO.v.UNITED STATES.
451.

465

Dissent.

days notice, and are denominated temporary loan agreements. They were evidently framed in view of the Clayton Act, and litigation likely to arise over the former
leases in view of that enactment. The court below so
found, and expressed the opinion that should the defendants' contention be sustained, and the conditions in controversy be held legitimate, leases containing them would
again be insisted upon. The earnestness and zeal with
which the right to use these clauses has been' insisted
upon throughout, confirms the conclusion of the trial
judge. The fate of these substituted forms of leases
evidently depends upon the outcome of this suit.
It is insisted that the leases in controversy were not
made in the course of interstate commerce, and, therefore,
cannot be embraced' within the terms of the Clayton Act.
It is provided in the decree that it shall apply to all leases
covering shoe machinery shipped from one State to the
user or factory for use in another State in the course of
or as a part of the transaction between the lessor and the
lessee, resulting in the making of the lease. It is true that
the mere making of the
lease of the machines is not of
I.
itself interstate commerce. But where, connected with
the making of such lease, a movement of goods in interstate commerce is required; we have no doubt of the
authority and purpose of Congress to control the making
of such leases by the enactment of the statute before us.
Other matters are urged, but we have noticed those
deemed necessary to a decision of the case. We find no
error in the decree of the court below, and the same is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

took no part in the considera
tion or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

