MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
142.

Counsel for Parties.

The disposition of this contention by the Court of Appeals is quite sufficient, saying:
"Th6 officials who heard her claim were not disqualified
b6ecause selected by the city. Her claim was not against
the city but if allowed was collected by assessment. Officials acting really as an auditing board are not condemned
because they have been selected by the municipality or
other division against which the claim is made. If it were
otherwise a great many bodies passing in a judicial capacity on claims from the Board. of Claims down, would be
disqualified. "
'The judgment of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department of the State of New York,
entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
STATE OF MINNESOTA v. STATE OF WISCONSIN.
IN EQUITY.

No. 11, Original. Motion for final decree submitted January 30,
1922.-Decree entered February 27, 1922.
Decree reciting report of commissioners heretofore appointed to
run, locate and designate the boundary between Minnesota and Wisconsin involved in this case; confirming the report; establishing the
boundary as set forth in said report and upon the maps accompanying the same; and allowing the expenses and compensation of said
commissioners as part of the costs of the suit to be borne equally
by the parties.

See also, Minnesota v. Wisconsin, 252 U. S. 273; 254
U. S.14.
Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of the State
of Minnesota, Mr. W. D. Bailey and Mr. H. B. Fryberger
for complainant.
Mr. William J. Morgan, Attorney General of the State
of Wisconsin, and Mr. Ralph\M. Hoyt for defendant.

OCTOBER TERM,- 1921.
Final Decree.

258 U. S.

BY THE COURT:
The State of Minnesota having made a motion before
the court for a final decree, confirming the report of the
Commissioners appointed by the decree in this cause on
the 11th day of October, A. D. 1920, to run, locate and
designate the boundary line between the State of Minnesota and the State of Wisconsin, in and through Lower
Saint Louis Bay, Upper Saint Louis Bay and the Saint
Louis River, from Upper Saint Louis Bay to the falls
in said river, which report is in words and figures, as
follows:
"To the Honorable Chief Justice and the Associate
Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States:
We, Samuel S. Gannett, Washington, D. C.; William B.
Patton, Duluth, Minn., and John G. D. Mack, Madison,
Wisconsin, Commissioners appointed, under decree of the
court rendered October 11th, 1920, 'to run, locate and
designate the boundary line between the State of Minnesota and the State of Wisconsin, in and through Lower
St. Louis Bay, Upper St. Louis Bay and the St. Louis
River, from Upper St. Louis Bay to the "Falls" in the
said river,' have the honor to submit the following report,
with accompanying maps, which maps are marked Exhibit No. 1, entitled, Supreme Court of the United States,
October Term, 1920, No. 13, Original, Tracing of Parts of
OriginalMap of St. Louis Bay and St. Louis River, Made
under Direction of Captain George G. Meade, T. E. 1861,
Showing Boundary Line Between Minnesota and Wisconsin as Surveyed in Accordance with Terms of Above
Decree in 1921, and Exhibit No. 2, entitled, Supreme
Court of the United States, October Term, 1920, No. 13,
Original, Map Showing Boundary Line Between Minnesota and Wisconsin Through St. Louis Bay and up St.
Louis River to the Falls as Surveyed in Accordance with
Terms of Above Decree in 1921.

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
149.

Final Decree.

Organization.
The Commissioners held their first meeting on October
29th, 1920, in suite 612, Palladio Building, in the City of
Duluth, Minnesota, and organized by electing Samuel S.
Gannett, Chairman.
Meade Chart.
In carrying out the decree of the court, that the
'boundary line must be ascertained upon a consideration
of the situation existing in 1846, and accurately described
by the Meade Chart,' the Commission made a careful
study of the Meade Chart, filed as Minnesota's Exhibit
No. 1, and found that the scale of said chart, 1: 32000,
was too small for practical use in determining a line
which could be laid out and properly monumented; and
that the triangulation points of the original Meade survey, shown on the original Meade Map (the location of
which was absolutely essential in transferring to the
ground points determined on the map), were omitted
from the chart.
Meade Map.
An attempt was then made to use the photographic
copies of the original Meade map, being Wisconsin's Exhibits Nos. 46C and 46D, but it was found that the process of production had caused unequal shrinkage in the
several sheets composing the map, and that no accurate
scalings could be made therefrom.
Under instructions of the Commission, Mr. S. S. Gannett went to the office of the U. S. Lake Survey, in the
City of Detroit, Michigan, the repository of the original
Meade map, and under his personal supervision, caused
an accurate tracing to be made of so much of the said
Meade map, and the soundings and triangulation points
shown thereon, as pertains to the case un~ler considera-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Final Decree.

258 U.S.

tion. An accurate copy of this tracing, showing in addition the boundary line, as fixed on said map by the Commission, is filed herewith as Exhibit No. 1.
Triangulation Points.
The triangulation points, heretofore noted as being
platted on the original Meade map by triangles, and
shown in red ink on the aforesaid tracing, are located, in
the records of the Lake Survey, by rectangular coordinates
referred to the primary triangulation station of the U. S.
Lake Survey, known as Minnesota Point North Base,
drawn in red ink on aforesaid tracing, and described hereinafter in detail under the heading, 'Descriptions and
Geographic Positions of Triangulation and Reference
Points.' Commissioner Gannett secured an accurate
copy of said coordinates from the official records of the
U. S. Lake Survey, and they are correctly given in Table
No. 1, attached to this report.
The original Meade triangulation points have not been
in existence for some years, but the Corps of Engineers,
U. S. Army, in later surveys of the St. Louis Bays and
River, has established new triangulation points and referred the same by rectangular coordinates to aforesaid
'Minnesota Point North Base.' An accurate copy of the
official coordinates of these later triangulation points was
also secured by Commissioner Gannett, and a true copy
of same is hereto attached and marked Table No. 2.
'With these coordinates, it is possible to accurately relocate the original Meade triangulation points, or to show
the new ones on the Meade map in their true positions;
and the last mentioned points are thus shown on Exhibit
No. 1, being marked by triangles in black ink.
Having the existing, or new, triangulation points platted in their true positions on the Meade map, it is possible to 'tie in' by scale any points or lines on said map
to these triangulation points, and to transfer said points

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
149.

Final Decree.

or lines to the ground by similar measurements from said
triangulation points.
Office Procedure.
With this information at hand, the Commission laid
down on the tracing of the original Meade map, Exhibit
No. 1, the boundary line between the States of Minnesota
and Wisconsin, in accordance with the decree of the
court, namely: 'From a point midway between Rice's
Point and Connor's Point, through the middle of Lower
St. Louis Bay, to and with the deep channel leading to
Upper St. Louis Bay, and to a point therein immediately
south of the southern extremity of Grassy Point, thence
westward along the most direct course, through water not
less than eight feet deep eastward of Fisherman's Island,
as indicated by the red trace A-B-C on Minnesota's Exhibit No. 1, approximately one mile to the deep channel
and immediately west of the bar therein, thence with such
channel north and west of Big Island upstream to the
"Fals." '
The center of the pivot pier of the Inter-State Bridge
was found to be the point midwaybetween Rice's Point
and Connor's Point, and was designated by the Commission as Station No. 0. From this point, as a beginning,
a series of straight lines was laid out to conform with the
decree of the court, special care being taken to have the
lines over water not less than eight feet deep as shown
by the Meade map, and the angle points between said
lines numbered consecutively.
From such of these angle points as were convenient,
'ties' were schled to the best situated triangulation
points on the map, and by means of rectangular coordi'
nates from each angle point on the lines between the
'ties,' to triangulation points, the lengths and angles of
deviation of the several lines were calculated, and closed
polygons formed. These polygons were then checked as

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Final Decree.

258 U. S.

to closure by the method of latitudes and departures, and
any errors found were balanced so as to secure closure.
By this means your Commissioners were enabled, with a
close approach to accuracy, to determine the lengths and
angles of 'deviation of the several lines composing the projected boundary line.
The lengths and angles thus determiited and the 'ties'
to th&'several triangulation points, were used as preliminary field notes by the surveying party employed to 'run
out the boundary line and to locate same by proper monuments, courses and distances:'
Boundary Line Above Fond Du Lac.
For that portion of the St. Louis River beyond Fond
Du Lac, and extending to the 'Falls,' and which is not
shown on the Meade Chart or map, the Commission established the center line of the river, as a medial line between
the shore lines, as surveyed by the Commission, and designated said medial line as the boundary line.
The Survey.
As the boundary .ne, except in a few instances, runs
over water from 8 feet to over 20 feet in depth, the
most convenient time for surveying it was after ice had
formed to a safe thickness. The winter proved to be
mild and the ice conditions unfavorable, adding greatly
to the danger and difficulty of the work, and increasing
the time necessary to finish it.
The surveying party was organized early in January,
1921, and the necessary equipment was rented or purchased. Starting at Station 0, heretofore described, the
approximate position of the Poundary line was laid out
on the ice, in the bay and river, from the preliminary
field notes, -and.the 'ties' to the triangulation points,
measured. Such discrepancies, due to the curvature of
the earth, or to errors in scaling from the map, as were

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
149.

Final Decree.

shown by measuring the 'ties,' were allowed for and distributed in the angles and distances of all the lines back to
the preceding 'tie.' If any important discrepancy was
discovered, the lines involved were re-run before any adjustments were made. From the final field notes of the
adjusted survey, a description of the boundary line by
courses and distances was obtained, and is incorporated
herein. This work was completed March 19, 1921.
Detailed Description of Boundary Line.
[Here follow lengthy and detailed descriptions of the
boundary line, as determined, the monuments, and of
triangulation and reference points, with geographic positions, which are omitted by the Reporter as not being of
general interest. Persons interested in these may consult the original decree in the clerk's office, obtain certified copies, or consult the copies forwarded to the Governors of the two States.]
Map of Boundary Line.
The Commission has prepared, and transmits herewith
as Exhibit No. 2, a map of St. Louis Bays and River on
the scale of 1: 24000, showing their present conditions,
improvements along the harbor front, the U. S. Government Harbor Lines and channels, and the relative position
of the boundary line. There are also shown as sub-maps,
on larger scale, improved or partly improved properties
which are crossed by the boundary line; also detailed
drawings of the concrete monuments as constructed.
Tables.
The rectangular coordinates, referred to Minnesota
Point North Base, of all monuments, reference point[s]
and line points are shown in Tables Nos. 2, 4 and 5,
hereto attached.
The geographic positions of the angle points in the
boundary line are shown in Table No. 6.

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Final Decree.

258 U. S.

Instruments.
The instrument used in making the survey was a
Transit Theodolite with 6/2-inch circle and reading to
10 seconds of arc. The measurements were made on the
surface of the ice with a steel tape 300 feet in length,
under a tension of twenty pounds, and corrected to temperature of 62' F.
Personnel.
The Commission employed as assistants the following
named persons, namely:
Gordon F. Daggett, Madison, Wisconsin, Consulting
Engineer.
Lyonel Ayres, Duluth, Minnesota, Consulting Engineer.
D. W. Van Vleck, Superior, Wisconsin, Consulting Engineer.
Paul Lillard, Madison, Wisconsin, Transit Man, in
charge of field party.
Edwin 0. Anderson, Duluth, Minn., Chainman.
Frank Kieserling, Duluth, Minn., Chainman.
Frank Suech, Jr., Duluth, Minn., Rodman.
Robert Case, Duluth, Minn., Rodman.
Robert Sansted, Duluth, Minn., Rodman.
Ray Mapp, Duluth, Minn., Draughtsman.
Eusebe J. Blais, Duluth, Minn., Draughtsman.
Finances.
We return herewith a financial statement showing in
detail the money actually expended in carrying out the
terms of the decree of the court.
Record Books.
All field, computation and record books have been
placed in the custody of the chairman of the Commission,

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
149.

Final Decree.

and filed by him in the office of the Geological Survey,
Interior Department, Washington, D. C.
Respectfully submitted.
SAAMUEL S. GANNETT,
WILLIAM
JOHN

B. PATTON,

G. D. MACK,
Commissioners."

June 25th, 1921.
The cause coming on to be heard upon said motion of
the said State of Minnesota.
It is hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed, that said
report of said Commission, filed in the office of the clerk
of this court on August 5, 1921, is in all respects confirmed.
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
line as delineated and set forth in said report and upon the
two maps accompanying said report being marked respectively Exhibits 1 and 2 by said Commission and which
line has been marked by permanent monuments as stated
in said report, be and the same is hereby established, declared and decreed to be the true boundary line between
the States of Minnesota and Wisconsin and said maps so
marked as aforesaid as Exhibits 1 and 2 are directed to be
filed as a part of this decree and it appearing that the
expenses and compensation of the Commissioners attendant upon the discharge of their duties amounts to fifteen
thousand six hundred twenty-six dollars and six cents
($15,626.06), it is ordered that the same be allowed and
approved as a part of the costs of this suit, to be borne
equally by the parties. Ard that the sum of two thousand
five hundred sixty dollars ($2,560), the expense of printing the record in this case, and the sum of two hundred
thirty ($230) dollars, the expense of printing the report
of the Commissioners in this case, amounting in the aggregate to two thousand seven hundred ninety dollars
($2,790), are allowed and approved as a part of the costs

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

of this suit to be borne equally by the parties and if one
of them has paid more than one-half of such sums, it shall
be reimbursed by the other for such excess.
It is further ordered, that the clerk of this court do
transmit to the respective governors of the States of
Minnesota and Wisconsin copies of this decree, duly
authenticated under the seal of this court, omitting from
said copies the two maps filed with the report.
STATE OF TEXAS v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION AND RAILROAD LABOR BOARD.
IN

EQUITY.

No. 24, Original. Argued on motions to dismiss December 7,8, 1921.Decided March 6, 1922.
1. Regarded as corporate entities created for governmental purposes,
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Railroad Labor
Board are not citizens of any State. P. 160.
2. Abstract questions of the power of Congress to enact specified
legislation do not present a case or controversy within the judicial power as defined by the Constitution. P. 162.
3. A suit by a State against the Railroad Labor Board and the Interstate Commerce Commission, seeking to annul action taken by
them under the Transportation Act of 1920, as an unconstitutional invasion of the rights of the State, injurious to her citizens,
held not to be entertained by this court in the exercise of its
original jurisdiction where the decisions and orders complained of
had been put in execution and their annulment would directly
and unavoidably affect resulting interests of carriers and carrier
employees who were not parties or represented in the litigation.
P. 163.
4. That the citizenship of such necessary parties prevents their being..joined will not justify proceeding in their absence. P. 163.
5. A suit by a State to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission must be brought in the District Court and the United
States must be nrkde a defendant. P. 164. North Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 485.

Bill dismissed.

