OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

CRANE, ADMINISTRATRIX OF SAUER, v. HAHLO
ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT, APPELLATE DIVISION, FIRST
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 107. Argued January 20, 23, 1922.--Decided February 27, 1922.
1. A purely statutory right of a landowner to recover damages resulting to his property from a change in the grade of a street upon

which it abuts is not a right of contract within the meaning of the
Contract Clause of the Constitution. P. 145.
2. In determining whether due process of law has been denied, the
character of the proceeding involved and the practice at common
law and in this country, in like cases, must be considered. P. 147.
3. The determination of the amount of damage to abutting property
caused by changing the grade of a city street may be properly
left to a board of assessors, and the property owner is not deprived
of due process if, pending the proceeding, his right to a general
review by a court is limited by 'an amendatory law making the
award final as to amount but leaving it reviewable. for lack of
jurisdictiori, fraud, or the wilful misconduct of the members of the
board. P. 147.
4. Equal protection of the laws is not denied the claimant in such a
cage by vesting the final power to assess the amount of the damages
in a board composed of officials of the city against which the claim
is made, appointed by its mayor. P. 148.
228 N. Y. 309, affirnied.
WRIT of error to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court Of New York, Appellate Division, entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals -of the State. The
effect of the judgment was to dismiss for want of jurisdiction an application previously entertained by the Supreme
Court of the State, and by the Appellate Division on
appeal, where the plaintiff in error here sought a writ of
certiorari to review an award made by the Board of Assessors of the City of New York and confirmed by the
Board of Revision of Assessments, fixing the damages

CRANE v. HAHLO.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

suffered by the plaintiff's intestate as abutting property
owner, due to a change of a street grade resulting from the
construction of a viaduct by the city.
Mr. John M. Harrington,with whom Mr. Archibald R.
Watson and Mr. Herbert H. Gibbs were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles J. Nehrbas, with whom Mr. John F.
O'Brien was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
Pursuant to authority of an act of the legislature of the
State, the City of New York, in 1890, began the construction of an elevated viaduct in 155th Street, which was
completed in 1893. Before and during the construction
of the viaduct George W. Sauer, the intestate of the
plaintiff in error, was the owner of property fronting upon
the part of the street improved and in due time instituted
suit to recover damages, which he claimed he had suffered.
After many vicissitudes, sufficiently indicated in Sauer v.
City of New York, 206 U. S. 536, and People ex rel. Crane
v. Ormond, 221 N. Y. 283, the litigation resulted in a decision by the Court of Appeals of New York in 1917, that
the construction of the viaduct effected a change of grade
in the street, that the administratrix of Sauer's estate was
entitled to recover such damages as had been caused to
the property, and that the Board of Assessors of the City
of New York had jurisdiction to make award of such damages. 221 N. Y. 283, supra.
With the right to damages thus established, the plaintiff
in error in due time filed her claim with theBoard of Assessors and was awarded a substantial sum as compensation. While her claim for damages was pending with the
Board of Assessors "The Greater New York Charter"
was amended in many respects affecting the powers and

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

duties of the Board of Assessors and of the Board of Revision of Assessments (Laws of New York, 1918, c. 619).
The Comptroller, Corporation Counsel and President of
the Department of Taxes and Assessments of the City,
had constituted the Board of Revision of Assessments
since 1901, and as such were given power to review any
award of damages made by the Board of Assessors, and
the only essential change made by the amendment of 1918
consisted in the provision that:
"The confirmation of any such award by the board of
revision of assessments shall be final and conclusive upon
all parties and persons whomsoever with respect to the
amount of damage sustained."
The plaintiff in error, not being satisfied with the
amount of the award in her favor by the Board of Assessors, filed objections therete, which were overruled, and
thereupon, pursuant to law, the proposed award with the
objections was presented to the Board of Revision of
Assessments and was by it confirmed.
The plaintiff in error, continuing dissatisfied, thereupon
appealed to the Supreme Court of New York for, and
procured, a writ of certiorari to review the determination
of the award by the Board of Assessors and the confirmation of it by the Board of Revision of Assessments. The
ground of this application was that the quoted provision
of the act of the New York Legislature of 1918, making
the confirmation of the award by the Board of Revision
of Assessments final and conclusive "with respect to the
amount of damage sustained," was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and void, and that the right
to such review by certiorari, theretofore existing, was not
affected by it.
A motion by the city to dismiss the writ on the, ground
that plaintiff in error's right to it was cut off by the
amendment to the statute was denied by the Supreme
Court and by th-e Appellate Division of the Supreme

CRANE v. HAHLO.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

Court, but this decision was reversed by the Court of Appeals in the judgment which is now under review.
It is conceded that at the time the viaduct was erected
and until the Act of 1918, under the practice of New York,
the plaintiff in error had the right to a general review in
the Supreme Court, a court of general jurisdiction, of the
proceedings before the Board of Assessors until 1901 and
of the Board of Revision of Assessments until the amendment in 1918. The holding of the Court of Appeals in
this case (228 N. Y. 309, 316) is that the provision of the
act, making the confirmation of the award by the Board
of Revision of Assessments final and conclusive, would
not prevent "the consideration on certiorari of questions
of jurisdiction, fraud and willful misconduct on the part
of the officials composing the boards ", but that it was
conclusive against the right to a general review of questions relating to the subject of damages such as the plaintiff in error was presenting to it. Matter of Southern
Boulevard R. R. Co., 143 N. Y. 253, 259, is cited as a
precedent for this holding.
Thus the contention'of the plaintiff in error, pursued
through all the state courts and now presented in this
court, is, that the modification by the Act of 1918 of the
remedy available to her intestate when the viaduct was
constructed and his right to damages became complete,
offends: (1) Against the contract impairment clause
(Art. I, ยง 10); (2) against the equal protection clause;
and (3) against the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the. Federal Constitution.
As to the first of these contentions.
While, under the holdings in People ex rel. Crane v.
Ormond, 221 N. Y. 283, and Ettor v. City of Tacoma, 228
U. S. 148, the decedent of the plaintiff in error had a
vested property right to compensation after the completion of the viaduct, very clearly this was not a contract
right in a constitutional sense.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

It has long been settled by decisions of this court that
the word "contracts" in ยง 10 of Article I of the Constitution is used in its usual or popular sense as signifying an agreement of two or more minds, upon sufficient
consideration, to do or not to do certain acts. "Mutual
assent" [express or implied] "to its terms is of its very
essence." State of Louisiana ex rel. Folsom v. Mayor and
Administrators of New Orleans, 109 U. S. 285, 288; Freeland v. Villiams, '131 U. S. 405, 414; "EisexPublic Road
Board v. Skinkle, 140 U. S. 334, 340; Morley v. Lake
Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 162, 169;
Garrisonv. City of New York, 21 Wall. 196, 203.
The Court of Appeals held that at common law the
intestate of the plhintiff in error did not have any right
of action for the damage done to his property (Sauer v.
City of New York, 180 N. Y. 27), and this court affirmed
that judgment in 206 U. S. 536, supra. In the later case,
221 N. Y. 283, supra, by treating the construction of the
viaduct as a change of grade of the street, a statute (not
noticed in the earlier decision) was made applicable and
from it was derived the right to recover asserted in this
case. The origin of the right is thus wholly statutory,
an act of grace by the legislature, as if "consulting the
interests of morality," so that- there is nothing in the
nature of a contract in it, and therefore there is nothing
in the case for the contract impairment clause of the
Constitution to operate upon., The first contention of the
plaintiff in error cannot be sustained.
The statement of the case shows that, stripped of nonessentials, the second contention of the plaintiff in error
is that the cutting down by the amendment of 1918 of
her remedy from a general review in the State Supreme
Court to a review limited to "questions of jurisdiction,
fraud and willful misconduct on the part of the officials
composing the boards," deprived her of her property
without due process of law.

CRANE v. HAHLO.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

In determining whether or not due process of law has
been denied regard must always be had to the character
of the proceeding involved for the purpose of determining what the practice at common law was and what the
practice in this country has been in like cases. Twining
-v.New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 100.
.The right ot the plaintiff in error to damages
having
been established by the decision in 221 N. Y. 283, supra,
there remained only the problem of determining the
amount of the -award which should be made and the
manner of making it, and the reference of such a question,
espedially in eminent domain proceedings, to a commission, or board,N or sheriff's jury, or other non-judicial
tribunal, was so common in -England and in this country
prior to the adoption of the Federal Constitution that it
has been held repeatedly that it isa form of procedure
within the power of the State to provide and that when
opportunity to be heard is given it satisfies the requirements of due process of law, especially when, as in this
case, a right of review in the courts is given. Custiss v.
Georgetown & Alexandria Turnpike Co., 6 Cranch, 233;
Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557,
569; United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 519; Long
Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S.685, 688;
and Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.548, 593.
No one has a vested right in any given mode of procedure (Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S.398, 401;- Gwin
v. United States, 184 U. S. 669, 674) and so long as a
substantial and efficient remedy remains or is provided
due process of law is not denied by a legislative change.
Oshkosh Waterworks Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S.437, 439.
The amendment of 1918, following an earlier amendment in 1901, gave to the plaintiff in error the right to
have the award of the Bo~rd of Assessors reviewed by the
Board of Revision of Assessments, which her intestate did
not have when the viaduct wm constructed, and while the
9544*-23-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

amendment of 1918 made the finding of the latter conclusive as to the "amount of damage sustained," it retained, the right to review in the courts the entire finding,
whenever lack of jurisdiction, or fraud, or wilful misconduct on the part of the members -of the Board should be
asserted. This afforded ample protection for the fundamental rights of the plaintiff in error, and the taking away
of the right to have examined mere claims of honest err(
in the conduct of the proceeding by the Board did not invade any federal constitutional right. Even courts have
been known to make rulings thought by counsel to be
erroneous. McGovern v. City of New York, 229 U. S.
363.
The Court of Appeals declares that the theory of the
amendment is well understood to be "the policy that the
greater - good is sometimes served by making certain
classes of decisions fifial and ending litigation, even though
in a particular case the individual is prevented by review from correcting some error which has injured him. "
It may not be an undiluted evil to the real parties in
interest to this litigation, which has been pending in
various forms for nearly thirty years, to have it brought
to an end and to have the large award allowed in 1918
divided among them.
Plainly this second claim of the plaintiff in error must
be denied.
The final contention is that the amendment of 1918 to
the act denies to the plaintiff in error the equal protection
of the laws.
It is argued, far from confidently, that this invasion of
constitutional right arises from the fact that the Board
of Revision of Assessments, having final jurisdiction over
the amount of the damages suffered by the intestate of the
plaintiff in error, is composed of three city officials, appointed by the mayor, with power to pass on claims
against it and that this denies to her an impartial tribunal.
This membership of the Board had existed since 1901.

MINNESOTA v. WISCONSIN.
142.

Counsel for Parties.

The disposition of this contention by the Court of Appeals is quite sufficient, saying:
"Th6 officials who heard her claim were not disqualified
b6ecause selected by the city. Her claim was not against
the city but if allowed was collected by assessment. Officials acting really as an auditing board are not condemned
because they have been selected by the municipality or
other division against which the claim is made. If it were
otherwise a great many bodies passing in a judicial capacity on claims from the Board. of Claims down, would be
disqualified. "
'The judgment of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Judicial Department of the State of New York,
entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
STATE OF MINNESOTA v. STATE OF WISCONSIN.
IN EQUITY.

No. 11, Original. Motion for final decree submitted January 30,
1922.-Decree entered February 27, 1922.
Decree reciting report of commissioners heretofore appointed to
run, locate and designate the boundary between Minnesota and Wisconsin involved in this case; confirming the report; establishing the
boundary as set forth in said report and upon the maps accompanying the same; and allowing the expenses and compensation of said
commissioners as part of the costs of the suit to be borne equally
by the parties.

See also, Minnesota v. Wisconsin, 252 U. S. 273; 254
U. S.14.
Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of the State
of Minnesota, Mr. W. D. Bailey and Mr. H. B. Fryberger
for complainant.
Mr. William J. Morgan, Attorney General of the State
of Wisconsin, and Mr. Ralph\M. Hoyt for defendant.

