OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 U. S.

LEVINSON v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT
SECOND

No. 145.

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 3, 1922.-Decided March 13, 1922.

1. A suit in the nature of interpleader by the United States against
one to whom it had given a bill of sale of a vessel and another
whose bid had been overlooked, to determine their rights, held
cognizable in equity (all parties consenting) although the plaintiff
did not stand indifferent but sought to maintain the higher bidder's
claim and thus get the higher price. P. 200.
2. Under the Act of March 3, 1883, c. 141, ยง 5, 22 Stat. 599, governing sales of vessels not needed for the Navy, the President is empowered to direct a departure from the prescribed manner of sale,
and his direction to the Secretary of the Navy to sell "for such
price as he shall approve," empowered the latter to sell to the
lower of two bidders, notwithstanding the advertisement was that
the sale would be to the highest bidder. P. 201.
3. The Secretary, overlooking a higher bid by mistake, approved a
lower one as the highest and issued a bill of sale of the vessel
accordingly. Held, that his action was conclusive in favor of the
lower bidder and that the mistake, not attributable to the latter,
gave the competitor no equitable claim to the title. P. 201.
4. An appeal here from a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
adjudging property to one of two interpleaded defendants, held not
affected by entry of decree, under that court's mandate, in the
District Court, and the act of the plaintiff in delivering the property under it. P. 202.
267 Fed. 692, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court in favor of
Levinson and adverse to Johnson in a suit in the nature
of an interpleader brought against them by the United
States to determine their respective rights in a vessel.

Mr. John A. McManus for appellant.
Mr. Henry Amerman for Johnson, appellee.
The Secretary of the' Navy, acting under due authority,
advertised and offered to sell on July 11, 1919, the steam

LEVINSON v. UNITED STATES.
198.

Opinion of the Court.

yacht "Wadena ", for cash to the highest bidder, and he
was bound by his written offer of sale.
The words "for such price as he shall approve," appearing in the executive order, did not give to the Secretary an unlimited discretion to dispose of government
property on his mere approbation or sanction, unless he
expressly so announced in his. offer of sale.
Under the facts appearing in the record, the Secretary
was obliged to sell the "Wadena" to Johnson.
A .mistake was made, and whether it was mutual or
otherwise, equity will relieve. The acceptance of Levinson's bid was based on the belief that it was the highest.
The action of the Secretary was taken under a complete
misapprehension of fact on his part, and on the part of
Levinson, that. there was no higher bid. Both parties
were unaware of Johnson's bid. United States v. Walsh,
115 Fed. 697, 702; Williams v. United States, 138 U. S.
514, 517; Moffett, Hodgkins & Clarke Co. v. Rochester,
178 U. S. 373.
The Secretary's refusal to deliver the "Wadena" to
-Levinson was necessary in the interest of public policy.
McKnight v. United States, 98 U. S. 179, 186.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, by leave
of court, filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as
amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a controversy between the appellant, Levinson,
and Johnson, one of the appellees, as to which of the two
is entitled to the steam yacht Wadena. The yacht had
been taken for the purposes of the late war and subsequently was offered for public sale by the Secretary of the
Navy in pursuance of an Executive Order of January 7,

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

1919, authorized by the Act of March 3, 1883, c. 141, ยง 5,
22 Stat. 599. Levinson sent in a bid complying with the
terms of the offer, was declared the highest bidder and
sent his check for the residue above the required deposit.
Thereupon he received a bill of sale under the seal of the
Department dated September 3, 1919, acknowledging that
he had become the legal purchaser and had paid the
price, and stating that the vessel "is hereby delivered to
and declared to be the property of said Morris Levinson."
On September 8 it was discovered that Johnson had sent
in a higher bid which had been misplaced and overlooked.
After making the discovery the Navy Department refused
to give up the Wadena to Levinson and attempted to rescind the transaction with him. He insisted on his rights
and Johnson on his side offered to pay the amount of his
bid and also demanded delivery of the yacht. The United
States thereupon brought the present bill to determine the
rights of the parties, and although it did not stand indifferent and has endeavored to maintain Johnson's right
and so to get the higher price, not to speak of Levinson's
claim -in contract, still as all parties consented to the jurisdiction we do not feel called upon to raise a question upon
that score. See McGowan v. Parish., 237 U. S. 285, 295,
et seq.
The District Court decided in favor of Levinson. Both
Johnson and the United States appealed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal of the United
States on the ground that it was a mere stakeholder, but,
one Judge dissenting, reversed the decree of the District
Court and decided in favor of Johnson, on the ground that
the Secretary of the Navy had no authority to accept any
other than what was the highest bid in fact. 267 Fed. 692.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
construed the authority of the Secretary of the Navy too
narrowly and that the decision of the District Court was
right. The Act of 1883, ยง 5, provides for an appraisal

LEVINSON v. UNITED STATES.
198.

Opinion of the Court.

and an advertisement for three months setting forth the
appraised value and that the vessel will be sold to the
offerer of the highest price above the appraised value,
&c. The section concludes "But no vessel of the Navy
shall hereafter be sold in any other manner than herein
provided, or for less than such appraised value, unless the
President of the United States shall otherwise direct in
writing." The power of the President to direct a departure from the statute is not confined to a sale for less than
the appraised value but extends to the manner of the sale.
The word "unless" qualifies both the requirements of the
concluding clause. The executive order seemingly so construes the statute, for it merely provides that if the former
owner of the vessel will not purchase at the appraised
value the Secretary of the Navy shall sell at public sale
"for such price as he shall approve." The Secretary con- strued the order to like effect. He did not advertise for
three months and he allowed a variation from the statute
in the form of deposit required.
It seems to us that the practices of ordinary business
dealing ought so far to bind the United States that the
ostensible authority given by the executive order, the
Secretary's declaration that Levinson's bid was the
highest, his approval of the price, and his execution of a
bill of sale, should be held conclusive in favor of Levinson.
The fact that the Secretary advertised that he would sell
to the highest bidder could not limit his authority or
diminish the effect of his acts. Even if Johnson's bid had
made a contract automatically by being the highest, it
would not follow that Levinson's title was bad. But a
bid had no such effect, as the right to reject it was reserved. We can see no justification beyond the wish to
secure a higher price, for the refusal to allow the appellant
to remove his yacht. The title passed to him upon the
execution of the bill of sale. Hatch v. Oil Co., 100 U. S.
124, 128.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

258 U. S.

It is suggested that there is no longer a question before
the Court because it is said that the District Court entered a decree in pursuance of the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and that the Navy Department thereupon delivered the yacht to Johnson. This was a further
departure from the position of stakeholder assumed by
the United States but cannot affect the decree to be entered upon its bill. It is urged for Johnson that there was
a mistake that relieved the Government. There was no
mistake that Levinson had anything to do with or that
would warrant a court of equity in requiring him to give
up the title that he acquired.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
MR. JusTIcE CLAR1.E was absent and took no part in the
decision.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, dissenting.
The opinion, in my view, gives too much prominence to
the action of the Navy Department and, in effect, determines the case by it as if the controversy were between
the Department and Levinson, and not between him and
Jdhnson. It caused the controversy, indeed, and by its
mistake gave a right to Levinson to which Johnson was
entitled. Has the law no redress for the injury thus inflicted? It would be a reproach to it if it have not.
Let me repeat the facts. In pursuance of a statute,
and in the manner directed by it, the Navy Department
offered the yacht Wadena for sale. It was the duty of
the Department to the Government of which it was an
instrument to accept the highest bid, and it owed a duty
as well to him who should be the highest bidder. Johnson
responded to the offer of sale and his bid was the highest.
By mistake, however, the bid was assigned to a boat of
similar name. In consequence of the mistake Levinson
was considered the highest bidder and a bill of sale was
issued to him. Before the delivery of the yacht, however,

LEVINSON v. UNITED STATES.
.198.

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

the mistake was discovered and the yacht was retained by
the Department. This being the situation, the Department, not in its own interest, not in partiality to either
claimant, caused this suit to be brought that the rights of
the claimants could be adjudicated. The suit is a disclaimer of interest or favor; it is in the nature of a bill
of interpleader and the contest is remitted to the interpleaded, Levinson and Johnson, and the law of their
rights. And that law is dependent, upon what they did,
not upon what the Navy Department did,-upon the priorities between them, not upon a chance advantage.
These are the elements that should determine judgment,
whether we assign to accident or mistake the action of
the Department in declaring Levinson to be the purchaser
of the yacht. I need not dwell upon the sufficiency of
either as a ground of relief.
Accident is said to be one of the oldest heads of equity
jurisdiction, ,and a learned authority says its -first and
principal requisite is, that, by an event not expected nor
foreseen, one party has without fault and undesignedly
undergone some legal loss while another party has acquired a legal right which it is contrary to good conscience
for him to retain and enforce.. 2 Pomeroy, ยง 824.
The requisites and consequences are in this case, and
exhibit the relative situations and rights of Levinson and
Johnson. Levinson has acquired a right to which Johnson
was entitled and which Johnson lost by an'accident to
which he was not a contributor. The law in its sufficiency
and prudence meets such contingent happening and gives
a remedy to prevent or redress its injury. That Levinson
was given a bill of sale is not a serious'deterrent. As the
bill of sale could have been refused it can be disregarded
as an element of decision.
Mistake as well as accident (mistake may be considered
a corollary of accident) i& a ground of relief which the
law's remedial consideration furnishes for the redress of

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

injustice. And that a mistake was made cannot be denied, and to which no act or negligence of Johnson was
accessory. He responded to the solicitation of the Navy
Department executing the law, and he was entitled to the
preference that the law commanded. It was given to
another by mistake. The law will not permit him to retain it, and this is a necessary deduction, I confidently
believe and, therefore, confidently express, though it is
opposed by the judgment of my brethren. I repeat, that
there was a mistake cannot be disputed, and I cannot
think that its consummation protects it from correction
and that a remedy should be denied because it is needed,
all of its conditions existing.
It was the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a
well reasoned opinion that the Secretary of the Navy had
"no authority to deliver the bill of sale to Levinson"
but was "bound to deliver it to Johnson." There is much
to sustain the decision; I, however, base my dissent upon
the views that I have expressed, and think that the judgment of the Circuit-Court of Appeals should be affirmed.
STATE OF TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

STATE OF TEXAS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES,
ivIcCHORD ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 298 and 563.

Argued November 15, 16, 1921.-Decided March
13, 1922.

1. Where a statute is susceptible of two constructions, one raising
grave and doubtful constitutional questions and the other not, it is
the duty of the court to adopt the latter. P. 217.

