TIOWAT v. KANSAS.
180.

Syllabus.

The original bill filed in May, 1920, alleges that the actual cost to appellee of manufacturing and distributing
gas during 1919 and the first three months of 1920 had
exceeded eighty cents per thousand cubic feet; that such
cost would not be less than $1.00 for an indefinite period
thereafter; and that the. statutory rate was confiscatory.
The matter was referred to a Master who took proof
and made a report which supported appellee's claim.
With some unimportant modifications this was confirmed
by the court. An appropriate decree followed which we
are asked to reverse for sundry specified reasons commented upon orally and in the brief.
We are satisfied that the court below reached a correct
conclusion and that none of the points relied upon for
reversal are adequate to justify such action. So far as
substantial all were adequately disposed of by the opinion
of the trial court, and we need not comment further upon
them.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

HOWAT ET AL. v. STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TKE STATE OF KAINSAS.

Nos. 154 and 491.

Argued February 27, 28, 1922.-Decided March
13, 1922.

1. The constitutionality of a' state statute presenting very important.
questions should not be decided unless the case before the court so

requires. P. 184.
2. Whether the Kansas Industrial Relations-Act (Laws 1920, c. 29),
in providing in effect for compulsory arbitration of labor controversies in certain industries before an administrative body-whose
orders it makes reviewable and enforceable through the State
Supreme Court, violates the Federal Constitution, is not deterruinable upon a review of a judgment of that court sustaining, as
a separable feature of the act,,the power it gives the administrative
body to call witiletses to testify in a general investigation of indus-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

trial conditions and the power of the State District Court, of general jurisdiction, to order their attendance and to enforce their
obedience through contempt proceedings. P. 185.
3. An injunction issued by a court of general jurisdiction and equity
powers upon proper pleadings, and served upon parties within the
jurisdiction, must be obeyed, even if erroneous and based upon an
invalid statute, until set aside by orderly review. P. 190.
4. Where a sentence imposed by the Kansas District-Court for
contempt in disobeying an injunction issued in a suit brought by
the State to prevent execution of a conspiracy to cause a general
strike and cessation of work in coal mines contrary to the state
laws, including the Industrial Relations Act, supra, was affirmed
by the State Supreme Court independently of that act (though its
constitutionality was drawn in question) upon the ground that the
District Court had general power to grant the injunction and that
the validity of the injunction could not be questioned collaterally
in the contempt proceeding, held that the judgment of affirmance,
having a non-federal basis, was not reviewable by this court.
P. 189.
Writs of error to review 107 Kans. 423; 109 Kans. 376, dismissed
WRITS of error to review two judgments of the Supreme
Court of Kansas affirming sentences to confinement for

contempt.
Mr. Redmond S. Brennan, with whom Mr. John F. McCafron and Mr. FrankB. Hegerty were on the briefs, for

plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John G. Egan, Mr."Moorfield Storey and Mr. F.

Dumont Smith, with whom Mr. Richard J. Hopkins, Attorney General of the State of Kansas, Mr. Baxter D. McClain and Mr. Harold S. Davis were on the briefs, for

defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.
These are two writs of error to the Supreme Court of

Kansas sued out (§ 237, Judicial Code) with the hope and
purpose of testing th validity, under the Federal Consti-

HOWAT v. KANSAS.
181.

Opinion of the Court.

tution, of the act of the Legislature of Kansas creating a
Court of Industrial Relations. C. 29, Special Session,
Laws of Kansas of 1920.
In No. 154, the plaintiffs in error were defendants in
proceedings taken in the District Court of Crawford
County, Kansas, to compel them to attend and give testimony under subpoena before the Court of Industrial Relations. They had refused to appear. After arrest and a
hearing, they were sentenced to confinement in jail until
they should comply with the order. State v. Howat, 107
Kans. 423.
In No. 491, the plaintiffs in error were sentenced to imprisonment for a year as punishment for violation of an
injunction issued by the same District Court forbidding
them to call or cause a strike among the employees in certain coal mines in Crawford County. State v. Howat,
109 Kans. 376.
We are of opinion that in neither case is the Kansas
Industrial Relations Act presented in such way as to permit us to pass upon those features which are attacked by
the plaintiffs in error as violative of the Constitution of
the United States.
The main purpose of the act is to create an administrative tribunal to arbitrate controversies between employers and employees in certain industrial, mining and
transportation businesses which the act declares to be
affected with such a public interest that their continuity
is essential to the public peace, the public health and the
proper living conditions and general welfare of the people.
The board, miscalled a court,.is given power to make investigations on its own initiative or upon complaint of interested persons to consider the wages, the return to capital, and thD conditions surrounding the workers in any
such employment and business, to summon all necessary
parties in interest, to call and examine witnessesbrand, after
hearing, to make its findings and orders stating specifically

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

the terms and conditions, including wages, upon which
such industry or employment shall be carried on in the
future. In case the parties do not obey the orders the
board is given authority to apply to the Supreme Court
of Kansas to compel compliance, and the Supreme Court
is authorized to review the orders upon the evidence already heard, and such other new evidence as that court
shall .permit, and enter and enforce a proper judgment.
The board is also authorized, with the consent of the
Governor, to make general investigations into industrial
and economic conditions to familiarize itself with industrial problems as they may arise. In effect, the act provides for compulsory arbitration between labor and capital in certain industries and employment. It forbids an
injunction against a workman or employee to prevent
-his quitting his employment. It is directed against strikes
and lockouts and their declared wasteful and destructive
effect, and conspiracies, picketing and intimidation to induce them. - Obviously we should not pass upon the constitutional validity of an act presenting such critical and
important issues unless the case before us requires it.
In No. 154, Howat and the other plaintiffs in error were
subpoenaed to appear before the so-called Court of Industrial Relations to testify in an investigation into conditions existing in the mining industry in Cherokee and
Crawford Counties. They failed to appear. The powers
of the tribunal in such a case are set forth in § 11 of the
act, reading in part as follows:
"Said Court . . . shall have the power and authority to issue summons and subpoenas and compel the
attendance of witnesses and parties
and to make
any and all investigations necessary to ascertain the truth
in regard to said controversy. In case any person shall
fail or refuse to obey any summons or subpoena issued by
said court after due service then and in that event said
court is hereby authorized and empowered to take proper
-.

ROWAT v. KANSAS.
181.

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel obedience to such summons or subpoena."
Under this'section, the board made application to the
District Court of Crawford County, the court of first instance of general jurisdiction in that county, to issue an
order directing the plaintiffs in error to attend the board
and testify. This order was issued, duly served and disobeyed. The contemnors were then' brought into court
by attachment Their plea that the legislation. under
which they were subpoenaed Was void was held to be insufficient and they were committed to jail until they
should comply with the subpoena. The contemnors appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed
the action of the District Court, holding that, without regard to the validity of the particular provisions of the
Industrial Relations Act of which they complained,- they
were under legal obligation to obey the subpoena and
were in contempt for not doing so. The court invited attention to § 28 of the act, which provides that, "If any
section or provision of this act shall be found invalid by
any court, it shall be conclusively presumed that this act
would have been passed by the.legislature without such
invalid section or provision, and the act as a whole shall
not be declared invalid by reason of the fact that one or
more sections or provisions may be found to be invalid by
any court; " and pointed out that, even if the compulsory
features of the act, to the constitutionality of which .the
plaintiffs in error objected, were invalid, there still remained in the act provision for investigation and findings
by the Industrial Relations Court, in respect to which the
power of the Legislature was indisputable and in furtherance of which the machinery for compelling the attendance and testimony of witnesses was appropriate. The
court relied on the decision of this court in respect to a
similar provision in the Interstate Commerce Law in
which the Interstate Commerce Commission wa' author-

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Nourt.

258 U. S.

ized to secure attendance of witnesses at any investigation
by it, through a proceeding before a Circuit Court of the
United States. InterstateCommerce Commissionv.Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 448, 449. It would seem to be sustained also by the decision of this court in Blair v. United
States, 250 U. S. 273, wherein it was held that a witness
summoned to give testimony before a grand jury in the
District Court of the United States was not entitled to
refuse to testify, when ordered by the court to do so, upon
the plea that the court and jury were without jurisdiction
over the supposed offense under investigation because the
statute denouncing the offense was unconstitutional.
But even if we did not agree with the state court on
this point, what we have said shows that the case was decided and disposed of by that court without any consideration of the application of the Federal Constitution to the
features of the Kansas statute of which complaint is
made. - Even if those features are void, these contempt
proceedings he state court sustains on general law. We
can not, therefore, consider the federal questions mooted
and assigned for error. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler,
227 U. S. 601, 610; Leathe v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93, 98;
Giles v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 146, 160; Hopkins v. McLure,
133 U. S. 380, 386; Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554, 564.
In No. 491 the State of Kansas on the relation of its
Attorney General and the County Attorney of Crawford
County, filed a petition in the District Court of Crawford
County asking an injunction against Howat and others,
one hundred and fifty in number, members of local unions
of the United Mine Workers of America, District No. 14.
The petition averred that defendants were conspiring,
threatening, and about to direct the officers to call a general strike in the coal mines of Crawford, Cherokee and
Osage Counties, Kansas, and cause a cessation of work in
them, thereby endangering the peace and order of the
communities in which said mines were located with in-

HOWAT v. KANSAS.
181.

Opinion of the Court.

tent to violate the laws of Kansas and particularly the
Court of Industrial Relations Act, that in pursuance
thereof they were intimidating their co-workers and other
employees of the olerators of the mines, that the purpose of the conspiracy iwas to stop the operation of the
railroads, and of the buildings, institutions and industries
of the State in the conduct 'of its government affairs and
to cut off the supply of coal for household and other uses
throughout the State, that all of said acts would seriously
affect and injure the public welfare and the public health
of the people; that a similar conspiracy a year before had
been carried out resulting in great suffering and loss to
the people, and endangered their lives and health to such
a degree that the state authorities were compelled to
take possession of the mines and operate the same, and
that, in the light of this result, the present conspiracy was
being set on foot. The petition further averred that this
conspiracy was directed especially to a nullification of the
statute creating the Court of Industrial Relations and its
purposes. It was alleged that the plaintiff was without
adequate remedy at law and that irreparable loss and injury to the State and the people thereof would ensue
unless the conspiracy of defendants was enjoined. The
defendants pleaded in answer to these charges that,
"whatever cessation of work, or intent to cease work,
there may have been, was solely and only in the exercise
of their lawful rights, for the purpose of improving theii'
working conditions and increasing their wages; and whatever effect their ceasing work may have had upon the
production of coal, was incidental to and in the, exercise
of their legal and constitutional rights; and the stoppage
in the operation of the production of coal, if any, was not
the primary purpose, but merely the incidental effect incident to the exercise of their lawful rights." They further alleged .that the Industrial Court Act was- void because in violation of the Federal Constitution and the

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

rights of defendants thereunder, and so the court was
without power to issue an injunction, as prayed.
The case came on for hearihg, the State introduced
evidence, and the defendants demurred to the evidence.
The demurrer was overruled. The defendants declined
to introduce evidence and rested. The court found the
averments of the petition true and made permanent the
temporary injunction already awarded. By this, the defendants were enjoined "from directing, ordering or in
any manner bringing about the hindering, delaying, interference with or suspension of the operation of any coal
mines in the counties of Crawford, Cherokee or Osage, in
the State of Kansas, and of the mining of coal at any of
said mines, and from caushig the miners and members
of said labor union to quit their work at said mines for
the purpose or purposes of hindering, delaying, interfering with or suspending the operation of any coal mines
in said counties, and from intimidating by threats, abuse,
or in any other manner, any person or persons with intent
to induce such person or persons from accepting employment or remaining in employment at said mines, and from
inany way whatsoever carrying out any conspiracy for the
ekecution of any of said purposes." In other clauses of
the injunction, defendants are enjoined from maintaining
and carrying on a conspiracy with the intent to evade
the provisions of the Industrial Court Act, and to prevent persons from appearing before it by picketing or
otherwise. The order expressly excluded from its purpose and effect the enjoining of any person against
quitting his employment. Thereafter the Attorney General filed an affidavit charging that the defendants had
violated the injunction by combining to order and compel
a strike at two mines in Crawford County. At a hearing
at which defendants were represented by counsel, the
court found reasonable ground for believing that those
of defendants who are plaintiffs in error here had violated

HOWAT v. KANSAS.
181.

Opinion of the Court.

the injunction. They were arrested and brought before
the court, whereupon the court directed the filing of a
formal accusation of contempt against them. The defendants answered attacking the validity of the Industrial
Court Act and of the permanent injunction, a: erring that
they had not done anything'vnlawful, and denying that
the accusation stated facts sufficient to constitute a violation of the injunction. The court found that the averments of the accusation were sustained, that defendants
had directed the strike at the mines in question, that a
cessation of work ensued, that it was done wilfully in disobedience to the injunction, and sentenced each of them
to imprisonment for a year and to payment of the costs
and confinement till the costs were paid.'
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Kansas held that the
District Court, a constitutional court of general jurisdiction (Constitution.of Kansas, § 6, Art. III; General Stat.utes of Kansas 1915, § 2957), had general power to issue
injunctions in equity and that, even if its exercise of
the power was erroneous, the injunction was not void,
and the defendants were precluded from attacking it in
this collateral proceeding; that; aside from the Indust rial
Court Act, the District Court had power in this case to
issue the injunction on principles identical with those applied in abatement of public nuisances. The court relied
on the case of In re Debs, 158 If. S. 564. It held that, if
the injunction was erroneous, jurisdiction was 'notthereby
forfeited, that the error was subject to correction only by
the ordinary method of appeal, and disobedience to the
order constituted contempt, citing State v. Pierce, 51
Kans. 241. An injunction duly issuing out of a court of
general jurisdictien with equity powers upon pleadings
properly invoking its action, and served. upon persons
made parties therein and within the jurisdiction, must
be obeyed by them however erroneous the action of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

court may be, even if the error be in the assumption ot
the validity of a seeming but void law going to the merits
of the case. It is for the court of first instance to determine the question of the validity of the law, and until
its decision is reversed for error by orderly review, either
by itself or by a higher court, its orders based on its decision are to be respected, and disobedience of them is contempt of its lawful authority, to be punished. Gompers
v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 450; Toy Toy
v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542, 548. See also United States v.
Shipp, 203 U. S. 563, 573.
•It is to be observed, moreover, that the injunction suit
in the District Court was not the enforcement of the
Industrial Relations Court Act. It was a proceeding
wholly independent of that act and the District Court
in entertaining it did not depend on the constitutionality
of that act for its jurisdiction or the justification of its
order. The State Supreme Court, it is true, did go into an
extended discussion of the constitutional principles upon
which the Industrial Court Act could in its opinion validly rest, but, as the court itself had before intimated, the
discussion was not necessary to the conclusion which it
had reached in sustaining the sentence for contempt.
As the matter was disposed of in the state courts on
principles of general, and not federal law, we have no
choice but to dismiss the writ of error as in No. 154.
Writs of error dismissed.
ATCHAFALAYA LAND COMPANY, LIMITED, ET
AL. v. F. B. WILLIAMS CYPRESS COMPANY,
LIMITED.
ERROR TO'TIIE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 106.

Argued March 3, 1922.-Decided March 13, 1922.

A statute limiting the time within which actions may be brought to
annul state patents for land and which, applied to a given case,

