OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF AIKEN v. J. L.. MOTT
IRON WORKS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TIHE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 159. Argued March 10, 1922.-Decided March 20, 1922.
A national bank, having advanced money to one who 1had ontracted
to supply labor and materil 'for a building, on the security of his
assignment of the contract and of payments to be made under it,
guaranteed payment of goods afterwards sold to the contractor, on
the faith of the guaranty, and used in the work. Held: (a) That
whether or not the guaranty was valid as an incident of banking,
the bank was liable to the seller, up to its amount, for moneys subsequently arising under the assigned contract which were paid to
it or, with its consent, to the contractor; and (b) that, the case
having been tried on its merits, the distinction between a recovery
on fhe guaranty and a recovery of the amount so directly or indirectly received on account of it, was purely formal. P. 241.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment affirming a recovery obtained
by the respondent on a guaranty made by the petitioner.

Mr. John F. Willia??s, with whom Mr. William S. Nel-

son was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. P. F. Henderson, with whom Mr. A. M. Lumpkin
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit against, the petitioner upon a written

guaranty of payment to the respondent of $2,363.50 for
goods sold to the Kaiser Company. The plaintiff, (the
respondent,) had a verdict and judgment and the .judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
The case comes here on the question of the liability of
the bank, "upnthe facts that we shall state.
They are simple. A firm of McGhee and McGhee was
building a hospital in Aiken. The firm hid contracted
with the Kaiser Company for the heating and plumbing,
at the price of $7,800, -the firm agreeing to pay eighty-five

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MOTT IRON WORKS.
240.

241

Opinion of the Court.

per cent. of the labor and materials furnished each month
and the remaining fifteen at the completion of the systern. The Kaiser Company assigned this contract to the
bank and the firm agreed to make all checks under the
contract payable to the bank. This was done as security
to the bank for advances the validity of which is not
contested. In the course of performance the Kaiser Company ordered the goods concerned from the respondent,
but the respbndent required security before it would send
them. Thereupon the bank in order to enable the company to complete its contract and thereby to repay the
advances that the bank had made gave the guaranty in
question. Subsequently the bank received $1,105.28 and
might have received much more than the amount of its
guaranty although in fact it allowed the McGhees to pay
checks for $5,468 to the Kaiser Company, with the result
that the Kaiser Company still owes it some money.
Therefore the bank is in the position of having realized
the benefit to acquire which the guaranty was made, and
of having realized it out of the proceeds of the goods that
it induced the Iron Company to sell.
In such circumstances, whether the contract is valid or
not, the contractor is accountable to the contractee, up
to the amount of his undertaking, for the proceeds coming
to his hands from the contractee upon the inducement of
the contract. Citizens' Central National Bank v. Appleton, 216 U. S. 196. In this case therefore the plaintiff
is entitled to recover the amount for which it has declared, and as the case was fully tried upon the merits, the
distinction between a recovery on the guaranty, as having been necessarily incident to the business of banking.
and a recovery of the amount received by petitioner on
account of the guaranty, becomes purely formal.
Judgment affirmed.
Mr. JuSTICE CLARV ., as absent and took no part iYn the
decision.

