OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

eleven pounds, in force July 1, 1913, when its four-year
term began; the weight of these bags, 1834 pounds; of the
contents, gold; and of the fact that the bags were sealed
and placed in locked pouches, the Postmaster General
could not make the service mail service if he tried. We
think.-it unnecessary to discuss the argument, if there is
anything in it. The service here, righ.tly or wrongly, was
demanded as mail service, was rendered as mail service
and was paid for without protest as mail service, Whether
the Treasury technically complied with all the requirements' of the statute concerning postal service did not
matter to the claimant. By giving its claim a different
name -from that passed upon in New York, New Haven &
Hartford R. R. Co. v. United Stdtes, 251 U. S. 123, 127,
the claimant does not better its case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY was absent and took no part in

the decision.
BURRMLL, TREASURER AND RECEIVER-GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, v. LOCOMOBILE COMPANY.
SAME v. RUSSELL, MILLER MILLING COMPANY.
-ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 98, 99.

Argued January 25, 26, 1922.-Decided February 27,
1922.

1. Massachusetts Statutes 1909, c. 490, Part III, §§ 70 and 71, provides, as the exclusive remedy for recovering a tax illegally exacted
under the act, a petition to the Supreme Judicial Court and prompt
repayment by the State of the sum there adjudged, and relieves
the collector from liability to personal action. P. 37.
2. The time fixed for filing the petition-six months-is reasonable.
P. 37.

BURRILL v. LOCOMOBILE CO.
34.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

3. In the absence of a controlling act of Congress, the right of a
foreign corporation to recover taxes exacted under an unconstitutional state statute may be confined by the state law to the direct
responsibility of the State and the collector of the taxes be thereby
relieved of personal liability, even when sued in the federal court,
at least where the remedy afforded is adequate. P. 37.
4. Quaere: Whether the proceeding given by the Massachusetts
statute, svpra, could be instituted in the Federal District Court?
P. 39.
5. The Constitution, standing alone, does not create a paramount,
unchangeable liability to an action of tort on the part of all persons who may take part in enforcing a state law that it invalidates,
but leaves the remedies to Congress and the States. P. 38.
Reversed.

ERROR to judgments for damages rendered by the District Court in actions to recover corporation excise taxes
collected by the defendant and alleged and found to have
been exacted by duress under an unconstitutional statute.

Mr. Wm.Harold Hitchcock for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William P. Everts, with whom Mr. Edward E.
Blodgett and Mr. Charles L. Favinger were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
The provision that the remedy by petition in the state
court shall be exclusive, cannot affect the maintenance of
this suit, where the federal court has jurisdiction, not
only because of diverse citizenship, but also because the
Federal Constitution is involved.
It is not necessary to treat at length the claim of the
plaintiff in error that this provision ousts the jurisdiction
of this court, Which obviously has jurisdiction, both by
reason of diverse citizenship of the parties and because of
the federal constitutional questions which are involved.
It is clear that" a State cannot tie up a citizen of another
State, having property rights within its territory invaded
by unauthorized acts of its own officers, to suits for redress
in its own courts." Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 517;
9544*-23-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282;
Nevada-CaliforniaPower Co. v. Hamilton, 235 Fed. 317,
339; InternationalPaperCo. v. Burrill, 260 Fed. 664, 669;'
Cunningham v. Macon &c. R. R. Co., 109 U. S. 446, 452,
Distinguishing Lamborn v. County Commissioners, 97
U. S. 181, 185, and Arkansas Building & Loan Association
v. Madden, 175 U. S. 269, 274. See Ward v. Love County,
253 U. S. 17.
Certainly the remedy must fall when the tax itself is
declared unconstitutional. This special provision making
the statutory remedy "exclusive" falls as a part of the
unconstitutional statute. Harrington v. Glidden, 179
Mass. 486, 492.
Moreover, c. 724, Acts of 1914, including § 2, which
contains the provision that the remedy "shall be exclusive," was expressly repealed by Acts of 1918, c. 76, and
can have no application here. Since 1879 the Superior
Court was given jurisdiction of all claims at law or in
equity against the Commonwealth. Gen. Laws, c. 258,
§ 1..
The obvious purpose of the legislature was to provide
that these tax questions should be determined by the
Supreme Court in the County of Suffolk. The statute
above referred to stated that the Superior Court "except
as otherwise expressly provided" shall have jurisdiction,
etc. It is clear that the suit in the Supreme Court provided for was one. of the exceptions referred to in c. 258,
§ 1, Gen. Laws, and that it was not the intention of the
legislature to abolish any remedies against public 6fficers.
MR. JusTicE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
These are suits by foreign corporations to recover taxes
alleged to have been paid to the defendant, the Treasurer
of Massachusetts, under duress, and in obedience to statutes held by this Court to be unconstitutional in International Paper Co. v. MAlsachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, and

BURRILL v. LOCOMOBILE CO.
34.

Opinion of the Court.

Locomobile Co. v. Massachusdtts;246 U. S. 146. On the
merits the defendant says that these taxes were collected under St. 1909, c. 490, Part III, § 56, held valid in
Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68; that
the maximum limit to the tax fixed by that statute, which
saved it, was supposed by.this Court in the later decisiofis
mentioned to have been removed by a later Act of 1914,
c. 724, (246 U. S. 145); but that since that time the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts has held that the
Act of 1909 was independent of the statute of 1914 and
remained valid and unaffected by the latter unconstitutional act. Liquid Carbonic Co. v. Commonwealth, 232
Mass. 19. Lawton Spinning Co. v. Commonwealth, 232
Mass. 28. He also says that by § 70 of the Act of 1909
any corporation aggrieved by the exaction of the tax may
within six months after payment apply by petition to the
Supreme Judicial Court, which shall be the exclusive
remedy; that there is a provision in § 71 for prompt repayment of any sum adjudged to have been illegally exacted,
and that these sections are a bar to a personal suit.
It is unnecessary to go farther than to say that we agree
with the defendant upon the latter point. As to the construction of the words, they mean, we have no doubt,
what was expressed more at length in an earlier statute
on the same matter, that the petition" shall take the place
of any and all actions which might otherwise be maintained by such corporation on account of the assessment
and collection of such tax, and shall be the exclusive
remedy." Stat. 1867, c. 52, § 4; continued with slight
change in Pub. Stats. (1882),, c. 13, § 66, and abridged to
the present form in Rev. Laws (1902), c. 14, § 67. The
words embodied a fixed policy of the State and must
stand whether the levy of the tax is good or bad.
But it is said that a State cannot tie up the plaintiffs
to suits in its own courts, and this objection coupled with
the suggestion that the legislature might shorten the time

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

still farther or deny all remedy, if the defence is good,
prevailed with the judge who decided these cases, as appears from International Paper Co. v. Burrill, 260 Fed.
664, 608, 669. We may dispose of the latter point first.
The time for filing the petition is not unreasonably short
for this class of cases, considering that the statute is dealing with taxes on the one side and business organizations
-on the other. And it by no means follows that a legislature may establish an unreasonable limitation because it
may establish a reasonable one. We may lay on one
side too the cases that show that States cannot confine
parties to their own courts for the assertion of admitted
rights. The question here is whether the State could not
limit the right of foreign corporations coming into it and
the liability of its own citizens in the way supposed. It
is true that it cannot constitutionally impose certain taxes
upon foreign corporations, but if the law of the United
States stops there we do not perceive why the State may
not provide that only the author of the wrong shall be
liable for it, at least when, as here, the remedy offered is
adequate and backed by the responsibility of the State.
That it may do so is implied in Arkansas Building &
Loan Association v. Madden, 175 U. S. 269, 274.
The Constitution standing alone without more does not
create a paramount unchangeable liability to an action
of tort on the part of all persons who may take part in
enforcing a state law that it invalidates. It leaves the
remedies to Congress and the States. Congress acting under the Constitution has given to the courts of the United
States a jurisdiction in equity that, speaking broadly, is
the same in all the States and follows its own rules. Rev.
Stats., § 913. Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Pet. 648, 658. McConihay v. Wright,,121 U. S. 201. But as to trials at common law, except when the Constitution, treaties or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide,
the laws of the States are the rules of decision. Rev.

J. L. WHITING-J. J. ADAMS CO. v. BURRILL.
34.

39

Counsel for Parties.

Stats., § 721. Congress has made no provision that governs the liability in this -case and therefore has left it to
the law of the State where the wrong is done. If there
were no statute the common law of Massachusetts would
supplement the Constitution as it would supplement the
statutes of the State. But the common law of Massachusetts is not superior to its statutes and may be modifled by them at the pleasure' of the State, at least until
in some substantial sense it impairs substantive constitutional rights, which it has not attempted to do. Whether
in an otherwise proper case the proceeding.given by the
statute could be instituted in the District Court is not
before us here. See Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449.
Madisonville Traction Co. v. Saint Bernard Mining Co.,
196 U. S. 239.
Judgments reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, being absent, took no part in the
decision.
JOHN L. WHITING-J. J. ADAMS COMPANY v.
BURRILL, TREASURER AND RECEIVER-GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 113.

Argued January 26, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

Decided upon the authority of Burrill v. Locomobile Co., ante, 34.
Affirmed.

Mr. Charles L. Favinger, with -whom Mr. Edward E.
Blodgett and Mr. William P. Everts were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Win. Harold Hitchcock for defendant in error.

