OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
258 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

LEACH, DOING BUSINESS AS ORGANO PRODUCT
COMPANY, v. CARLILE, POSTMASTER.
APPEAL FROM

THIE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTI

No. 105.

FOR

THE

CIRCUIT.

Submitted January 18, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

Whether the advertising of a medicinal preparation, through the
mails, so grossly overstates iis true virtue as to work a fraud upon
the public, is a question of fact committed to the decision of the
Postmaster General, and his conclusion will not be reviewed by the
courts when fairly arrived at and supported by substantial evidence.
P. 139.
267 Fed. 61, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a decision of the District Court dismissing
the bill in appellant's suit to enjoin enforcement of a
postal fraud order.
Mr. Lee D. Mathias for appellant.
was also on the brief.

Mr. P. W. Sullivan

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mri. Assistant Attorney
General Crim and M11'r. H. S. Ridgely for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, doing business in the name of "Organo
Product Company, " in his bill prayed for an injunction
restraining the Postmaster at Chicago from giving effect
to a " fraud order" against him, issued by the Postmaster
General on August 15, 1919, pursuant to authority of
Rev. Stats., § 3929 and § 4041. The order was in the usual
form, prohibiting the delivery of mail or payment of
money orders to appellant, and directhig the disposition
of mail which should be addressed to him. The District
Court, refusing the injunction, dismissed the bill, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed its decree. Leach v.
Carlisle, 267 Fed. 61.

LEACH v. CARLILE.
138.

Opinion of the Court.

The appellant was engaged in selling what he called
"Organo Tablets," which he advertised extensively
through the mails as "Recommended and prescribed by
leading physicians throughout the civilized world for nervous weakness, general debility, sexual decline or weakened manhood and hrinary disorders . . . sleeplessness
and run-down system, " and various other ailments.
Appellant is an old offender, a prior fraud order having
been issued against him, under another name, in April,
1918, as a result of which he changed his trade name and
modified in a measure his advertising matter.
The order complained of was entered after an elaborate
hearing, of which the appellant had due notice and at
which he was represented by counsel, and introduced
much evidence.
The only error assigned in this court is the affirming by
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the decree of the District
Court, refusing the injunction and dismissing the bill. In
argument it is contended that the question decided by the
Postmaster General was that the substance which the appellant was selling did not produce the results claimed for
it, that this, on the record, was a matter of opinion as to
which there was conflict of evidence, and that therefore
the case is within the scope of American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94. Without considering whether such a state of facts would brixg.the
caLse within the decision cited, it is sufficient to say that the
question really decided by the.lower courts was, not that
the substance which, appfellant was selling was entirely
worthless as a medicine, as to which there was some conflict in the evidence, but that it was so far from being the
panacea which he was advertising it through the mails to
be, that by so advertising it he was.perpetrating a fraud
upon the public. This was a question of fact which the
statutes cited committed to the decision of the Postmaster
General, and the applicable, settled rule of law is that the

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
HOLMES and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

258 U. S.

conclusion of a head of an executive department on such
a question, when committed to him by law, will not be
reviewed by the courts where it is fairly arrived at and
has substantial evidence to support it, so that it cannot
justly be said to be palpably wrong and therefore arbitrary. Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108,
109; Smith v. Hitchcock, 226 U. S. 53, 58; Houston v. St.
Louis Independent Packing Co., 249 U. S. 479, 484; Milwaukee Social Democratic Publishing Co. v. Burleson,
255 U. S. 407, 413, and cases cited.
An examination of the record fully justifies the conclusion of the 'Circuit Court of Appeals that it not only fails
to show that the Postmaster General had no warrant of
law for his order but that, on the contrary, it shows there
was abundant ground for it. The decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES, with whom concurred Mr. Justice Brandeis, dissenting.
The statute under which fraud orders are issued by the
Postmaster General has been decided or said to be valid
so many times that it may be too late to expect a contrary decision. But there are considerations against it
that seem to me never to have been fully weighed and
that I think it. my duty to state.
The transmission of letters by any general means other
than the postoffice is forbidden by the Criminal Code,
§§ 183-185. Therefore, if these prohibitions are valid,
this form of communication with people at a distance is
through the postoffice alone; and notwithstanding all
modern inventions letters still are the principal means of
speech with those who are not before our face. I do not
suppose that anyone would say that the freedom of
written speech is less protected by the First Amendment
than the freedom of spoken words. Therefore I cannot

LEACH v. CARLILE.
138.

HOLMES and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

understand by what authority Congress undertakes to
authorize anyone to determine in advance, on the grounds
before us, that certain words shall not be uttered. Even
those who interpret the Amendment most strictly agree
that it was intended to prevent previous restraints. We
have not before us any question as to how far Congress
may go for the safety of the Nation. The question is
only whether it may make possible irreparable wrongs
and the ruin of a business in the hope of preventing some
cases of a private wrong that generally is accomplished
without the aid of the mail. Usually private swindling
does not depend upon the postoffice. If the execution of
this law does not abridge freedom of speech I do not quite
see what could be said to do so.
Even if it should be held that the prohibition of other
modes of carrying letters was unconstitutional, as suggested in a qualified way in Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S.
727, it would not get rid of the difficulty to my mind, because the practical dependence of the public upon the
postoffice would remain. But the decision in that case
admits that possibly at least the prohibition as to letters
would be valid. That case was not dealing with sealed
letters. The decisions thus far have gone largely if not
wholly on the ground that if the Government chose to
offer a means of transportation which it was not bound to
offer it could choose what it would transport; which is
well enough when neither law nor the habit that the
Government's action has generated has made that means
the only one. But when habit and law combine to exclude every other it seems to me that the First Amendment in terms forbids such control of the post as was
exercised here. I think it abridged freedom of speech on
the part of the sender of the letters and that the appellant had such an interest in the exercise of the right
-that he could avail himself of it in this case. Buchanan
v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60.

