OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

our necessary conclusion. The Senate in confirming
nominations is not exercising a judicial but an executive
function. It does not have to give a hearing or make an
investigation before lawful action, and if it chooses to accept the President's nomination as assurance that there is
a vacancy to which the appointment proposed can be
made, and acts on that assurance, the legal effect of the
confirmation is not affected.
Petition for rehearing and the motion to remand are
denied.
BALZAC v. PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.

Nos. 178, 179.

Argued March 20, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.

1. The Act of January 28, 1915, e. 22, 38 Stat. 803, amending § 246
of the Judicial Code, and providing that writs of error from this
court may be prosecuted to the supreme courts of Porto Rico and
Hawaii in the same classes of cases as to the courts of last resort
of the States under Jud. Code, § 237, meant to assimilate the jurisdiction over those territorial courts to that over the state courts
and is to be construed as embracing subsequent changes in § 237
not obviously inapplicable, such as the amendments made by the
Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. P. 300.
2. In prosecutions for criminal libel in a district court of Porto
Rico, defendant demanded a jury under the Sixth Amendment,
which was denied him upon a construction of local statutes, applicable to this and other misdemeanors. Held, that the demand
drew in question the validity of the statutes, within the meaning
of Jud. Code, § 237, as amended in 1916, and that judgments of
the Supreme Court of Porto Rico affirming the convictions were
reviewable here by writ of error. P. 302.
3. To present the constitutionality of a statute, it is not essential that
an assignment of error should mention the statute in question, if
the record definitely shows that its constitutionality was questioned
and the assignment is clearly directed to that controversy. P. 303.
4. The provisions of the Constitation guaranteeing jury trial in all
criminal prosecutions do not" apply to a territory belonging to the

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Counsel for Parties.

United States which has not been incorporated into the Union;
and Porto Rico was not so incorporated by the Act of April 12,
1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 77, which gave it a temporary government.
P. 304. Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S.138.
5. The Organic *Act for Porto Rico of March 2, 1917, c. 145, 39
Stat. 951, known as the Jones Act, did not have the effect of incorporating Porto Rico into the United States. P. 305.
6.Since the Spanish War, an intention of Congress to incorporate
new territory into the Union is not to be admitted without express
declaration or an implication so strong as to exclude any other
view. P. 306.
7. The provisions of § 5 of the Organic Act, supra, for extending federal citizenship to citizens and certain residents of Porto Rico, did
not extend the jury system there. P. 307.
8. Neither can incorporation into the United States be implied from
the organization of the United States District Court in Porto Rico,
allowance of review .of cases from its Supreme Court involving the
Constitution, admission of Porto Ricans to the Military and Naval
Academies, sale-of United States stamps in the Island, or extension
to it of federal revenue, navigation, banking-, bankruptcy, employers' liability, safety appliance, extradition and census laws. P.'3I.
9.Published reflexions on the Governor of Porto Rico, held libelous
-and not legitimate comment protected by the guaranty of free
speech and free press in the First Amendment of the Constitution.
P. 314.
28 P. R. 139; 141 affirmed.

REviw of two judgments of the Supreme Court of
Porto Rico which affirmed judgments of the District Court
for Arecibo imposing sentences to imprisonment .based
on convictions of criminal libel.'
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with, whom Mr. Stanley -D.
Willis and Mr. Wm.T. Rankin were on the brief, for
Balzac.
Mr. Grant T. Trent, with whom Mr. Arthur W. Beer
was on the brief, for Porto Rico.
'The records were brought up in the form of appeals but are treated
a -here. on writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAT delivered the opinion of the
court.
These are two prosecutions for criminal libel brought
against the same defendant, Jesus M. Balzac, on informations filed in the District Court for Arecibo, Porto Rico,
by the District Attorney for that District. Balzac was the
,editor of a daily paper published in Arecibo, known as
"El Baluarte ", and the articles upon which the charges
of libel were based were published on April 16 and April
23, 1918, respectively. In each case the defendant demanded a jury. The code of criminal procedure of Porto
Rico grants a jury trial in cases of felony but not in misdemeanors. The defendant, nevertheless, contended that
he was enttled to a jury in such a case, under the Sixth
Amendment to the Constitution, and that the language
of the alleged libels was only fair comment and their
publication was protected by the First Amendment. His
contentions were overrdled, he was tried by the court and
was convicted in both cases and sentenced to five months'
imprisonment in the district jail in the first, and to four
months in the second, and to the payment of the costs in
each. The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of
Porto Rico. That court affirmed both judgments. People
v. Balzac, 28 P. R. 139, Second Case, 28 P. R. 141.
The first question in these cases is one of jurisdiction of
this court. By § 244 of the Judicial Code, approved
March 3, 1911, it was provided that writs of error and
appeals from the final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico might be prosecuted to this
court in any case in which was drawn in question the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised
under, the United States, or wherein the Constitution of
the United States, or a treaty thereof, or an act of Congress was brought in question and the right claimed'
thereunder was denied, and this without regard to the

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

amount involved. By the Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22,
38 Stat. 803, § 244 of the Judicial Code was repealed, but
§ 246 was amended and made to apply to the appellate
jurisdiction of this court in respect to the decisions of the
Supreme Court not only of Hawaii, as before, but also
Porto Rico, and it was provided that writs of error to
those courts from this court could be prosecuted in the
same class of cases as those in which this court was
authorized under § 237 of the Judicial Code to review
decisions of state courts of last resort. Section 237 at
that time allowed a writ of error to final decisions in
state courts of last resort where was drawn in question
the validity of a treaty, or a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, the United States, and the decision was
against its validity; or where was drawn in question the
validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under
any State, .on the ground of its being repugnant to the
Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and
the decision was in favor of its validity; or where any
title, right, privilege or immunity was claimed under the
Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or commission
held or authority exercised under, the United States, and
the decision was against the title, right, privilege or immunity especially set up or claimed by either party under
such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission or authority. By Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 803, 804,
amending § 246, this court was given power by certiorari
to bring up for review all final judgments or decrees in
civil or criminal cases in the supreme courts of Porto
Rico and Hawaii, other than those reviewable here by
writ of error because in the class similar to that described
in § 237 of the Judicial Code. By Act of September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, the jurisdiction of this court
to review by writ of error, under § 237, final judgments
ahd decrees of state courts of last resort was cut down by
omitting cases (other than those involving the validity of

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

a treaty, statute or authority exercised under the United
States or any State) wherein a title, right, privilege, or
immunity, was claimed under the Constitution, or any
treaty or statute of, or commission held, or authority
exercised under, the United States, and the decision was
against such title, right, privilege or immunity, and such
cases, it was provided, could only be examined on review
in this court by certiorari.
The question now presented is whether the amendment
to § 237.of the Judicial Code by the Act of 1916 applies to,
and affects, the appellate jurisdiction of this court in reviewing decisions of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico.
We think it does. We think that the manifest purpose of
the Act of 1915, amending § 246 of the Code, in its reference to § 237 of the Judicial Code, was to assimilate the
appellate jurisdiction of this court over the supreme
courts of Porto Rico and Hawaii to that over state courts
of last resort, and that the reference in amended § 246 to
§ 237 may be fairly construed to embrace subsequent
changes in § 237 that are not obviously inapplicable.
This brings us to the question whether there was drawn
in question in these cases the validity of a statute of
Porto Rico under the Constitution of the United States.
The Penal Code of Porto Rico divides crimes into felonies
and misdemeanors. (Rev. Stats. and Codes of Porto Rico,
1911, Penal Code, § 13.) A felony is described as a crime
punishable by death or by imprisonment in the penitentiary. Every other crime is declared to be a misdemeanor.
Penal Code, § 14. Section 178 of the Porto Rican Code of
Criminal Procedure provided that issues of fact in cases of
felony should be tried by a jury when the defendant so
elected, but gave no such right in the case of misdemeanors. This was construed by the Supreme Court to deny
such right. People v. Bird, 5 P. R. 387.
By § 244 (5676) of the Penal Code (as amended by Act
of March 9, 1911, p. 71), the publication of a libel is made

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

punishable by a fine not exceeding $5,000, or imprisonment in jail for a term not exceeding two years, or both
such fine and imprisonment, and also the costs of the
action in the discretion of the court. It is, therefore,
plain that libel under the Porto Rican law is a misdemeanor, and a jury trial was not required therein. By the Act
of July 22, 1919 (Laws of Porto Rico, 1919, No. 84, p.
684), a jury trial is now given in misdemeanors, but that
did not come into force until after these libels were published and these trials had.
When the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were first passed in 1901, they both contained the
provision that in all cases of libel the jury should determine the law and the fact. It was held, however, by the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico in People v. Bird, 5 P. R.
387, 405, that this did not give a jury trial but only rhade
provision that, if and when a right of jury trial was' given
in such cases, the jury should have the power to determine the law and the fact. Thereafter the Act of March
10, 1904 (Laws of Porto Rico, 1904, p. 130), expressly
repealed -U1 reference to trials for libel in the jury act.
The effect of the Penal Code of Procedure, as construed
by the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, and of the Act of
March 10th repealing the jury act as to lbel cases, was a
statutory deiial of the right of jury trial in such cases. A
demand for a jury trial in this case, therefore, drew in
question the validity of the statutes upon which the court
relied in denying the demand. This necessarily leads to
the conclusion that these cases are in the same class as
those which come to this court by writ of error under
§ 237, as amended by the Act of 1916, and that jurisdiction ,by writ of error exists.
Was the issue properly saved in the recoid by the defendant? We think it was. The demand for a jury trial,
the statute to the contrary notwithstanding, was made at
the trial. It was ,renewed in the assignments of eror in

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

the Porto Rican Supreme Court and here. Those assignments did not mention the statutes whose validity was
involved, but merely averred that the defendant had been
denied his right as an American citizen under the Sixth
Amendment to the Constitution. While this is informal,
we think that it is sufficient when the record discloses the
real nature of the controversy and the specification of the
assignment leaves no doubt that it is directed to that controversy.
We have now to inquire whether that part of the Sixth
Amendment to the Constitution, which requires that, in
all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the
State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, applies to Porto Rico. Another provision
on the subject is in Article III of the Constitution providing that the trial of all crimes, except in cases of irn-'
peachment, shall be by jury; and such trial shall be held
in the State where the said crimes shall have been committed; but, when not committed within any State, the
trial shall be at such place or places as the Congress may
by law have directed. The Seventh Amendment of the
Constitution provides that in suits at common law, where
the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the
right of trial by jury shall be preserved. It is well settled
that these provisions for jury trial in criminal and civil
cases apply to the Territories of the United States. Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 437, 460; Reynolds v. United States,
98 U. S. 145, 167; Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 556;
American PublishingCo. v. Fisher, 166 U. S. 464; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S, 343, 347; Capital Traction Co. v.
Ilof, 174 U. S. 1; Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349; Rassmussen v. United States, 197 U. S. 516, 528; Gurvich v.
'United States, 198 U. S. 581. But it is just as clearly
settled that they do not apply to territory belonging to the

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

305

Opinion of the Court.

United States which has not been incorporated into
the Union. Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197; Dorr v.
United States, 195 U. S. 138, 145. It was further settled
in Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, and confirmed by
Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, that neither the
Philippines nor Porto Rico was territory which had been
incorporated in the Union or become a part of the United
States, as distinguished from merely belonging to it; and
that the acts giving temporary governments to the Philippines, 32 Stat. 691, and to Porto Rico, 31 Stat. 77, -had no
such effect. The Insular Cases revealed much diversity of
opinion in this court as to the constitutional status of the
territory acquired by' the Treaty of Paris ending the
Spanish War, but the Dorr Case shows that the opinion of
Mr. Justice White of the majority, in Downes v. Bidwell,
has become the settled law of the court. The conclusion
of this court in the Dorr Case, p. 149, was as follows:
"We conclude that the power to govern territory, implied in the right to acquire it, and given to Congress in
the Constitution in Article IV, § 3, to whatever other
limitations it may be subject, the extent of which must
be decided as questions arise, does not require that body
to enact for ceded territory, not made a part of the United
States by Congressional action, a system of laws which
shall include the-right of trial by jury, and that the Constitution does not, without legislation and of its own force,
carry such right to territory so situated."
The question before us, therefore, is: Has Congress,
since the Foraker Act of April 1-2, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 77,
enacted legislation incorporating 1-o)rto" Rico into the
Union? Counsel for the plaintiff in error give, in their
brief, an extended list of acts, to which we shall refer
later, which they urge as indicating a purpose to make
the Island a.part of the United States; but they chiefly
rely on the Organic Act of Porto Rico of March 2, 1917,
c. 145, 39 Stat. 951, known as the Jones Act.

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 J. S.

The act io entitled "An Act To provide a civil government for Porto Rico, and for other purposes." It does not
indicate by its title that it has a purpose to incorporate
the Island into the Union. It does not contain any
clause which declares such purpose or effect. While this
is not conclusive, it strongly tends to show that Congress
did not have such an intention. Few questions have been
the subject of such discussion and dispute in our country
as the status of our territory acquired from Spain in 1899.
The division between the political parties in, respect to
it, the diversity of the views of the members of this
court in regard to its constitutional aspects, and the constant recurrence of the subject in the Houses of Congress,
fixed the attention of all on the future relation of this
acquired territory to the United States. Had Congress
intended to take the important step of changing the treaty
status of Porto Rico by incorporating it into the Union,
it is reasonable to suppose'that it would have done so by
the plain declaration, and would not have left it to mere
inference. Before the que.stion became acute at the close
of the Spanish War, the distinction between acquisition
and incorporation was not regarded as important, or at
least it was not fully understood and had not aroused great
controversy. Before that, the purpose of Congress might
well be a matter of mere inference from various legislative acts; but in these latter days, incorporation is not
to be assumed without express declaration, or an implication o strong as to exclude any other view.
Again, the second section of the act is called a "Bill of
Rights ", and included therein is substantially every one
of the guaranties of the Federal Constitution, except those
relating to indictment by a grand jury in the case of
infamous crimes and the right of trial by jury in civil
and criminal cases. If'it was intended to iacorporate
Porto Rico into the Union by this act, which would ex
proprio vigore make applicable the whole Bill of Rights

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Constitution to the Island, why was it thought
necessary to create for it a Bill of Rights and carefully
exclude trial by jury? In the very forefront of the act
is this substitute for incorporation and application of the
Bill of Rights of. the Constitution. This seems to us a
conclusive argument against the contention of counsel for
the plaintiff in error.
The section of the Jones Act which counsel press on us
is § 5. This in effect declares that all persons who under
the Foraker Act were made citizens of Porto Rico and certain other residents shall become citizens of the United
States, unless they prefer not to become such, in which
case they are to declare such preference within six months,
and thereafter they lose certain political rights under the
new government. In the same section the United States
District Court is given power separately to naturalize individuals of some other classes of residents. We set out
the section in full in the margin.1 Unaffected by the con-

'Sec. 5. That all citizens of Porto Rico, as defined.by section seven
of the Act of April twelfth, nineteen hundred, "temporarily to provide revenues and a civil government for Porto Rico, and for other
purposes ", and all natives of Porto Rico who were temporarily absent
from that island on April 'eleventh, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine,
and have since returned and are permanently residing in that island,
and are ziot citizens of any foreign country, are hereby declared, and
shall be deemed and held to be, citizens of the United States: Provided, That any person hereinbefore described may retain his present
political status by making a declaration, under oath, of his decision to
do so within six months of the taking effect of this Act before the district court in the district in which be resides, the declaration to be in
form as follows:
"I...........,
.
being duly sworn, hereby declare my intention
not to become.a citizen of the.Tnited States as provided in the Act of
Congress conferring United States citizefiship upon citizens of Porto
Rico and certain natives permanently fesiding in said island."
. In the case of any such persoja who may be absent from the island
during sai.i .ix months the term of this proviso may be availed of by
transmitt±'r a declaration, under oath, in the form herein provided
ON

-23-28

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
'Opinion of tle Court.

25S IT.S.

siderations already suggested, perhaps the declaration of
§ 5 would furnish ground for an inference such as counsel
for plaintiff in error contend, but under the circumstances
we find it entirely consistent with non-incorporation.
When Porto Ricans passed from under the government of
Spain, they lost the protection of that government as subjects of the King of Spain, a title by which they had been
known for centuries. They had a right to expect, in passing under the dominion of the United States, a status entitling them to the protection of their new sovereign. In
theory and in law, they had it as citizens of Porto Rico,
but it was an anomalous status, or seemed to be so in view
of the fact that those who owed and rendered allegiance to
the other great world power§ were given the same designation and status as those living in their respective home
countries so far as -protection against foreign injustice
went. It became a yearning of the Porto Ricans to be
American citizens, therefore, and this act gave them the
boon. What additional rights did it give them? It en"abled them to move into the continental United States and
becoming residents of any State there to enjoy every right
of any other citizen of the United States, civil, social and
political. A citizen of the Philippines must be naturalized
before he can settle and vote in this country. Act of June
29, 1906, c. 3592, § 30, 34 Stat. 606. Not so the Porto
Rican under the Organic Act of 1917.
within six months of the taking effect of this Act to the executive seeretary of Porto Rico: And provided further, That any person who is
born in Porto Rico of an alien parent and is permanently residing in
that island may, if of full age, within six months of the taking effect
of this Act, or if a minor, upon reaching his majority or within one
year thereafter, make a sworn declaration of allegiance to the United
States before the United States District Court-for Porto Rico, setting
forth therein all the facts connected with his or her birth and residence in Porto Rico and accompanying due proof thereof, and from
and after the making of such declaration shall be considered to be a
citizen of the United States.

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

In Porto Rico, however, the Porto Rican can not insist
upon the right of trial by jury, except as his own representatives in his legislature shall confer it on him. The
citizen of the United States living in Porto Rico can not
there enjoy a right of trial by jury- under the Federal Constitution, any more than the Porto Rican. It is locality
that is determinative of the application of the Constitution, in such matters as judicial procedure, and not the
status of the people who live in it.
It is true that, in the absence of other and countervailing evidence, a law of Congress or a provision in a treaty
acquiring territory, declaring an intention to confer political and civil rights on the inhabitants of the new lands as
American citizens, may be properly interpreted to mean
an incorporation of it into the Union, as in the case of
Louisiana and Alaska. This was one of the chief grounds
upon which this court placed its conclusion that Alaska
had been incorporated in the Union, in Rassmussen v.
United States, 197 U. S. 516. But Alaska was a very different case from that of Porto Rico. It was an enormous
territory, very sparsely settled and offering opportunity
for immigration and settlement by American citizens. It
was on the American Continent and within easy reach of
the then United States. It involved none of the difficulties which incorporation of the Philippines and Porto
Rico presents, and one of them is in the very matter of
trial by jury. This court refers to the difficulties in Dorr
v. United States, 195 U. S. 138, 148:
"If the right to trial by jury were a fundamental right
which goes wherever the jurisdiction of the United States
extends, or if Congress, in framing laws for outlying territory belonging to the United States was obliged to establish that system by affirmative legislation, it would follow
that, no matter what the needs or capacities of the people,
trial by jury, and in no other way, must be forthwith established, although the result may be to work injustice

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

and provoke disturbance rather than to aid the orderly
administration of justice. . . . Again, if the United
States shall acquire by treaty the cession of territory having an established system of jurisprudence, where jury
trials are unknown, but a method of fair and orderly trial
prevails under an acceptable and long-established code,
the preference of the people must be disregarded, their
established customs ignored and they themselves coerced
to accept, in advance of incorporation into the United
States, a system of trial unknown to them and unsuited to
their needs. We do not think it was intended, in giving
power to Congress to make regulations for the territories,
to hamper its exercise with this condition."
The jury system needs citizens trained to the exercise
of the responsibilities of jurors. In common-law countries centuries of tradition have prepared a conception of
the impartial attitude jurors must assume. The jury system postulates a conscious duty of participation in the
machinery of justice which it is hard for people not
brought up in fundamentally popular government at once
to acquire. One of its greatest benefits is in the security
it gives the people that they, as jurors actual or possible,
being part of the judicial system of.the country can prevent its arbitrary use or abuse. Congress has thought
that a -people like the FilipinoO or the Porto Ricans,
trained to a complete judicial system which knows no
juries, living in compact and ancient communities, with
definitely formed customs and political conceptions,
should be permitted themselves to determine how far they
wish to adopt this institution of Aknglo-Saxon origin, and
when. Hence the care With which from the time when
Mr. McKinley wrote his historic letter to Mr. Root in
April of 1900, Public Laws, Philippine Commission, pp.
6-9--Act of July'l, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, 692, concerning the character of government to be set up fof the
Philippines by the Philippine Commission, until the Act

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

of 1917, giving a new Organic Act to Porto Rico, the
United States has been liberal in granting to the Islands
acquired by the Treaty of Paris most of the American
constitutional guaranties, but has been sedulous to avoid
forcing a jury system on a Spanish and civil-law country
until it desired it. We can not find any intention to depart from this policy in making Porto Ricans American
citizens, explained as this is by the desire to put them
as individuals on an exact equality with citizens from the
American homeland, to secure them more certain protection against the world, and to give them an opportunity,
should they desire, to move ito the United States proper
and there without naturalization to enjoy all political and
other rights.
We need not dwell on another consideration which'requires us not lightly to infer, from acts thus easily explained on other grbunds, an -intention to incorporate in
the Union these distant ocean communities of a different
origin and language from those of our continental people.
Incorporation has always been a step, and an important
one, leading to statehood. Without, in the slightest degree, intimating an opinion as to the wisdom of such a
policy, for that is not our province, it is reasonable to assume that when such a step is taken it will be begun and
taken by Congress deliberately and with a clear declaration of purpose,, and not left a matter of mere inference
or construction.
Counsel for the plaintiff in error also rely on the organization of a United States District Court in Porto Rico;
on the allowance of review of the Porto Rican Supreme
Court in cases when the Constitution of the United States
is involved, on the statutory permission that Porto Rican
youth can attend West Point and Annapolis Academies,
on the authorized sale of United States stamps in the
Island, on the extension of revenue, navigation, immigra-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

tion, national banking, bankruptcy, federal employers'
liability, safety appliance, extradition, and census laws
in one way or another to Porto Rico. With the background of the considerations already stated, none of these
nor all of them put together furnish ground for the conclusion pressed on us.
The United States District Court is not a true United
States court established under Article III of the Constitution to administer the judicial power of the United
States therein conveyed. It is created by virtue of the
sovereign congressional faculty, granted under Article
IV, § 3, of that ifnstrument, of making all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory belonging to the
United States. The resemblance of its jurisdiction to
that of true United States courts in offering an opportunity to nonresidents of resorting to a tribunal not subject to local influence, does not change its character as a
mere territorial court. Nor does the legislative recognition that federal constitutional questions may arise in
litigation in Porto Rico have any weight in this discussion. The Constitution of the United States is in force
in Porto Rico as it is wherever and whenever the sovereign power of that government is exerted. This has not
only been admitted but emphasized by this court in all
its authoritative expressions upon the issues arising in
the- Insular-Cases, especially in the Downes v. Bidwell
and the DorrCases. The Constitution, however, contains
grants of power and limitations which in the nature of
things are not always and everywhere applicable, and the
real issue in the Insular Cases was not whether the Constitution extended to the Philippines or Porto Rico when
we went there, but which of its provisions were applicable by way of limitation upon the exercise of executive
and legislative power in dealing with new conditions and
requirements. The guaranties of certain fundamental
personal rights declared in the Constitution, as for in-

BALZAC v. PORTO RICO.
298.

Opinion of the Court.

stance that no person could be deprived of life, liberty
or property without due process of law, had from the
beginning full application in the Philippines and Porto
Rico, and, as this guaranty is one of the most fruitful
in causing litigation in our own country, provision was
naturally made for similar controversy in Porto Rico.
Indeed provision is made for the consideration of constitutional questions coming on appeal and writ of error
from the Supreme Court of the Philippines, which are
certainly not incorporated in the Union. Judicial Code,
§ 248.
On the whole, therefore, we find no features in the
Organic Act of Porto Rico of 1917 from which we can
infer the purpose of Congress to incorporate Porto Rico
into the United States with the conseniinces which
would follow.
This court has passed on substantially the same questions presented here in two cases, PortoRico v. Tapia, and
Porto Rico v. Muratti, 245 U. S. 639. In the former,
the question was whether one who was charged with
committing a felonious homicide some twelve days after
the passage of the Organic Act in 1917, could be brought
to trial without an indictment of a grand jury as required
by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. The
United States District Court of Porto Rico on a writ of
habeas corpus held that he could not be held to answer
and discharged him. In the other case, the felony enarged
was alleged to have been committed before the passage of
the Organic Act, but prosecution was begun afterwards.
In that, the Supreme Court of Porto Rico held that an
indictment was rendered necessary by the Organic Act.
This court reversed the District Court in the Tapia Case
and the Supreme Court in the Muratti Case, necessarily
holding the Organic Act had'not incorporated Porto Rico
into the United States. Thesd cases were disposed of
by a per curiam. Counsel have urged us in the cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

at the bar to deal with the questions raised more at
length in exposition of the effect of the Organic Act of
1917 upon the issue, and we have done so.
A second assignment of error is based on the claim that
the alleged libels here did not pass the bounds of legitimate comnment on the conduct of the Governor of the
Island against whom they were directed, and that their
prosecution is a violation of the First Amendment to the
Constitution securing free speech and a free press. A
reading of the two articles removes the slightest doubt
that they go far beyond the "exuberant expressions of
meridional speech," to use the expression of this court
in a similar case in Gandia v. Pettingill, 22 U. S. 452.
458. Indeed -they are so excessive and 'outrageous in
their character that they suggest the query whether their
-superlative vilification has not overleapt itself and become
unconsciously humorous. But this is not a defence.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico are
Affirmed.
Mr. Justice HOLMES concurs in the result.

FERRY v. SPOKANE, PORTLAND & -SEATTLE
RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 177.

Argued March 20,1922.-Decided April 1Q, 1922.

1. Dower is not a privilege or immunity of citizenship, state or federal, within the meaning of § 2 of Article IV of the Constitution
or the Fourteenth Amendment, but at .most a right attached to

the marital relation and subject to regulation by each State respecting property within its limits. P. 318.
2. The Oregon law allowing a dower right in the lands of which the
husband was seized of an estate of inheritance at any time during

