DAHN v. DAVIS.
416.

Argument for Petitioner.

which cannot be reviewed in a habeas corpus proceeding.
Cases, supra..
The remaining allegations are trivial.
For the reason that the petition did not state facts
sufficient to entitle petitioner to the writ of habeas corpus,
the judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.

DAHN v. DAVIS, AGENT, ETC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 166. Argued March 10, 13, 1922.-Dec-ded April 10, 1922.
A postal employee of the United States, injured while in the performance of his duty on a railroad operated at the time by the
Director General of Railroads under the Federal Control Act,
c. 25, 40,Stat. 451, and who elected to accept, and received, compensation therefor under the Federal Employees' Compensation
Act, c. 458, 39 Stat. 742, was thereby debarred from an action
against the Director Getieral for negligence causing the injury.

P. 428.
267 Fed. 105, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment, of the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversing a judgment of the District Court for
the present petitioner in his action for damages against
John Barton Payne, as Director General of Railroads.
James C. Davis, successor of Mr. Payne as Director General,,was substituted as respondent by order of this court,
he having been designated by the President as agent for
the defense of such actions under § 206 of the Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461.
Mr. Walter C. Clephane, with whom Mr. J. Wilmer
Latimer was on the brief, for petitioner.
The receipt of benefit under the Compensation Act
does 'not constitute an election barring the plaintiff of

OCTOBER TERI, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

his remedy. If this were a suit against the United States
in the ordinary sense, so that a judgment would have to
be.paid out of its public moneys derived through its taxing power and other ordinary sources of revenue, then it
would follow that the judgment in this case would be paid
out, of the public moneys generally, the same source from
which beneficiaries under the Compensation Act derive
their compensation. This, however, is not thp case.
The railways while under federal control were never considered to be an integral part of the governmental system.
In consenting that the Director General nright be sued,
Congress provided in the Control Act an elaborate scheme
whereby judgments should be paid out of the railway
operating income under the rules of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Federal Control Act, § 12; Johnson
v. McAdoo, 257 Fed. 757.
The compensation to be paid by the United States to a
railroad is an amount "not exceeding a sum equivalent
as nearly as may be to its average annual operating
income for the three years ended June thirtieth, nineteen
hundred and seventeen," and it is only such operating
income "in excess of such just compensation" as remains the property of the United States. 40 Stat. 452.
In determining the "average annual railway operating
income" which is to be the basis of payment, judgments
against the roads have, under the rules of the Interstate Commerce Commission, been deducted. Johnson
v. McAdoo, supra. The act also puts federal taxes on
the same basis, and provides a similar deduction for
them. 40 Stat. 452. So far as known, it has never
been contended that the federal taxes assessed against
the railroads are paid from the Government's own
treasury. Haubert v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 259
Fed. 361.
If executive construction of the Control Act be resorted to, there is ample support for this position. There

DAHN v. DAVIS.
421.

Argument for Petitioner.

is not the same reason for a statutory application of the
doctrine of election under these circumstances as exists
in the case of the ordinary private employer. Possibly
partly for this reason, Congress has not seen fit to require
an election to be made.
The Compensation Act was passed before the Control
Act, and at a time when a -postal clerk unquestionably
had a right of action against a railway company by whose
negligent act he was injured, but had no redress of any
kind against the United States for its negligent act.
Bigby v. United States, 188 U. S. 400.
The mind at once leaps to the question whether it
can be possible that Congress intended that, by the
mere act of taking the railroads under federal control
as an emergency measure, a railway mail clerk should
thereby be deprived of his theretofore unquestioned
property right to sue and recover for injuries ieceived
through negligence such as was charged and proved in
this case.
When the Compensation Act was passed the United
States could not be sued for torts committed by it.
Obviously, therefore, there was no occasion to insert in
the act any provision to the effect that the reception of
benefits under it was a waiver of any right of action
against the United States. The act did, however, carefully preserve the rights of beneficiaries thereunder to
present claims and to institute suits against defendants
"other than the United States," even to the extent of
permitting the commission to require the beneficiary to
assign to it any such claim, and conferring authority upon
such commission to thereafter prosecute or compromise
such claims. (§ 26, 39 Stat. 747.) There is no peculiar
significance in the language "other than the United
States." This is substantially the phrase which i's almost
univei-sally used in the compensation acts of the various

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

States, providing, as they do, for the assignment to the
employer of claims by the employee against third parties,
so that the employer may be subrogated pro tanto to the
extent of payments made by him.
Section 7 of the Compensation Act does not prevent a
claim being made against the United States, because it
only precludes the making of such a claim "so long as
the employee is in receipt of compensation under this
act," or "until the expiration of the period during which
such installment payments would be continued." At the
end of these periods he is left free to pursue any remedy
he might have, if any such exists.
Furthermore, the meaning of the word "remuneration"
as used in the act is clearly limited by the words "salary"
and "pay" which are used in conjunction with it in the
enumeration. The clear intention here seems to be that
while receiving the compensation provided by the act, the
employee is to receive nothing in the nature of salary;
he is to be cut off the payroll except as to the pay already
accrued for services performed., The act is pensional in
character and is in the nature of accident insurance furnished by the Government to its employees.
The language of § 41 is significant. The Panama Railroad Company was the only railroad owned and controlled
entirely by the Federal Government when the Compensation Act was passed, and the language of § 41 is eloquent
proof that Congress recognized the right of action on behalf of a government employee, notwithstanding -such
absolute government control and ownership. It is cleai
from this language that Congress had no thought that the
right to compensation provided by the act was exclusive
of any other remedy against the railroad company,
even though the Government did absolutely own and
control it.
If the language of § 10 of the Control Act is ambiguous,
the history of the legislation can be resorted to. This

DAHN v. DAVIS.
421.

Argument tor Petitioner.

shows that an election was never intended. Hearings,
65th Cong., 2d sess., on H. R. 8172.
From the omission in the Control Act of a provision
similar to the one relating to the Panama Railroad in the
Compensation Act, the conclusion seems unescapable that
Congress deliberately chose not to subject plaintiffs to the
doctrine of election.
It is clear that at the time the Federal Conttol Act was
passed, the petitioner, a railway mail employe6, had the
right to sue the Illinois Central Railroad Company for
any injury which might have resulted to him from its
negligence. Any cause of action in his favor created a
legal liability against some party "other than the United
States." Section 10 definitely, allowed actions to be
brought against carriers and "judgments rendered as now
provided by law; " and enacted that "in any action at
law or suit in equity against the carrier, no defense shall
be made thereto on the ground that the carrier is an instrumentality or agency of the Federal Government."
This section indicates that the rights theretofore existing
in federal employees to sue railroad companies were not
affected by the Railroad Control Act. Unless, therefore,
there is something in the general purpose of the Employees' Compensation Act, or something which by necessary implication is read into that act, to bar the petitioner's remedy by reason of his acceptance of benefits
thereunder, it is submitted that the court below erred in
its conclusions.
The Federal Employees' Compensation Act differs in
important particulars from the state and English and
Scotch acts, cited by the court below.
Must the claimant refund to the Government the
amount recovered? The act (§§ 26, 27) provides for
two situations: (1) The resort by the beneficiary to the
Compensation Act prior to suit, in which case the commission may require him to assign his right of action to

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

the United States; and (2) the resort to the Compensation Act after recovery by suit, compromise or otherwise.
It expressly requires the United States, in the first case
to refund to the beneficiary all the recovery except the
amount paid him under the Compensation Act, and in
the second case, permits the beneficiary to retain all except the amount which has been paid or may be "payable
to him under the Compensation Act.
With the exception of a very few States, it is believed
that the customary legislation permits the claimant to
receive and retain the benefit of any excess; and this,
petitioner contends, is what the Federal Compensation
Act has done. Bulletin, U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Jan. 1921, No. 272, pp. 193 et seq.; Houlihan v. Sulzberger & Sons Co., 282 Ill. 76; Otis Elevator Co. v.
Miller & Paine, 240 Fed. 376.
The court below appears to have been impressed with
the idea that if recovery were allowed in this case, the
employee would recover double compensation. It is believed that the error of this view has been clearly demonstrated, and that this court will be convinced, from the
terms of the act itself, that petitioner must reimburse the
Compensation Commission from the amount recovered in
this suit for the amount paid him by it, and that petitioner would retain only the surplus.
This decision, if unreversed, will have the effect of
revolutionizing the practice in two of the Government
Bureaus, viz: the Veterans' Bureau and the Federal
Employees' Compensation Commission. The beneficiaries of the War Risk Insurance Act, the provisions of
which in this respect are almost identical with the Compensation Act, are likewise affected by the decision.
Mr. A. A. McLaughlin, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. F. H. Helsell and Mr. Albert Ward were
on the brief, for respondent.

DARR v. DAVIS.
421.

427

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner, a railway mail clerk in the employ of
the United States, was injured on May 29, 1918, when the
car in which he was working was wrecked on the line of
the Illinois Central Railroad, then being operated by the
Director General of Railroads under the Federal Control
Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451. He brought
this suit to recover .for his injuries against the Illinois
Central. Railroac Company and the Director General of
Railroads, but the former was dismissed from the case on
demurrer. Among other defenses, the Director General of
Railroads alleged in his answer that the petitioner, as an
employee of the United States, had made application for,
and pursuant to its provisions had been paid, compensation under the provisions of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (39 Stat. 742), and that thereby this further action, which is, in effect, against the United States,
was barred. A demurrer to this last defense was sustained and the petitioner obtained a verdict on which
the District Court entered judgment. On error this
judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that court holding that the petitioner had his option
under the law to apply for compensation under the
Employees' Compensation Act, as he did, or to sue for
damages under the Federal Control Act (c. 25, 40
Stat. 451), and that, by electing to accept the benefits
of the former, he was barred from prosecuting this
action for negligence against the United States under the
latter.
Thus, the writ of certiorari brings up for review the
question*whether, when a. government employee, injured
on a railroad, operated at the time by the Director General
of Railroads, had elected to accept payment under the
Federal Employees' Compensation Act, he was thereby
barred from prosecuting a suit against the Director Gen-

428

OCTOBER TERIM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

25S U. S.

eral of Railroads for negligence causing the injury for
which he had-been compensated.
James C. Davis, the Agent designated by the President
under § 206 of the Transportation Act 1920, c. 91, 41
Stat. 456, has been substituted for the Director General
of Railroads as respondent.
It was definitely held in Missouri Pacific R. R. Co.
v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554, that, at all of the times here involved, § 10 of the Federal Control Act permitted the
Gove-nment, through its Director' General of Railroads,
to be sued for any injury negligently caused on any line
of railway in his custody, precisely as a common carrier corporation operating such road might have been
sued, and that recovery, if any, would be from the United
States.
Thus, plainly the petitioner had the right to sue the
Director General of Railroads for negligently injuring
him, and if successful his recovery must have been from
the United States.
The .Federal Employees' Compensation Act, approved
September 7, 1916, c. 458, 39 Stat. 742, provides that the
United States shall thereafter pay, as therein specified,
for the disability or death of any government employee
resulting from'personal injury sustained while in the performance of his duty. The act provides for a commission
to investigate claims and- to make awards, but no compensation may be allowed to.any person unless he, or some
one in his behalf, shall *make written claim therefor.
Thus, th6 petitioner, injured, as he was, while in the performance of his duty, was entitled to compensation under
the adt upon making claim for it.
This reference to the two acts shows that the petitioner
had two remedies, each for the same wrong, and both
against the United States, and therefore the question for
decision takes the form, May the petitioner, after having
pursued one of his remedies to a conclusion and payment,

DAHN v. DAVIS.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

pursue the other for a second satisfaction of the same
wrong against the Government?
That this question must be answered in the negative
we think clear from various provisions in the Compensation Act, showing that Congress intended that payments
made under, it should be regarded as full and final and
that no payment in addition thereto would be made by
the Government to an injured employee.
Section 7 of the act specifically declares that so long
as any employee is -receiving installment payments under
the act, or if he has beefn paid a lump sum in commutation of installment payments, then Until the expiration
of the period during which installment payments would
have continued, "he shall not receive from the United
States any salary, pay, or remuneration whatsoever except in return for services actually performed," and
except pensions for service in the Army or Navy.
It would be difficult to frame a cleater declaration
than this that no payment would be made by the Government for injuries received other than as provided
for in the act.
Section 26 provides that, "if an injury or death for
which compensation is payable under this Act is caused
under circumstances creating a legal liability upon some
person other than the United States to pay damages
therefor," the Commission may require an assignment
to the United States of the right to enforce such liability
or to share in any money received in satisfaction thereof,
or it may require the beneficiary to prosecute an action
for damages in his own name. Refusal to make such assignment or to prosecute such action, when requested by
the Commission,*shall forfeit all right to .compensation.
This section also provides that if the Commission shall
realize on such claim against third persons, either by suit
or settlement, it shall apply the net proceeds to reimbursing the "Employees' Compensation Fund" for pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

ments theretofore made, andany surplus remaining shall
be paid tQ the beneficiary and credited on future compensation payable for the same injury. If the amount of
recovery exceeded the payments made and to be made,
obviously the beneficiary would be entitled to the excess.
Section 27 also provides for cases in which death or
injury, for which compensation is payable under the act,
is caused under circumstances "creating a legal liability
in some person other than the United States to pay damages" but in which the beneficiary, instead of the Commission, 'eceives the proceeds of suit or settlement. Here
it is required that such beneficiary shall refund to the
United States from such proceeds the amount of any compensation that has been paid to him by the Government
or shall credit the money so received upon any compensation payable to him for the same injury.
Plainly, by these two sections Congress deals with the
liability of persons "other than the United States " to
employees entitled to compensation under the act, not
for the purpose of increasing that compensation, but for
the purpose of reimbursing the Government for payments made and of indemnifying it against other amounts
payable in the future. The sections emphasize the disposition to treat the compensation provided for as adequate for the injuries received, and they negative any
intention on the part of the Government to make further
pa:jments.
But § 41 is even more convincing to the point we are
considering. A special proviso in this section declares
that if the injury or death for which compensation is
payable under the act is caused under circumstances
creating a legal liability in the Panama Railroad Company to pay damage therefor "no compensation shall
be payable until the person" shall release to the Railroad Company any right of action he may have against
it or until he assigns to the United- States any rights

DAHN v. DAVIS.
421.

Opinion of the Court.

which he may have to share in any money or other property received in satisfaction of such liability.
When the Compensation Act was passed the United
States was the owner of all the capital stock of the
Panama Railroad Company and as such was ultimately
liable for the torts of that company just as it became
liable for the torts of the Director General of Railroads
under the Federal Control Act, and, therefore, this manner
of dealing with the liability of that company to employees
negligently injured is highly persuasive as to the congressional intent.
This Compensation Act is the expression of a slowly
developed purpose on the part of the United States
(1908,-35 Stat. '556; 1912,--37 Stat. 74; 1916,--39 Stat.
742), to give compensation to its employees, who otherwise would be without remedy when injured by fault
of the Government, and the provisions of it which we
have discussed convince us that the congressional purpose was that when the compensation was accepted no
further payment should be made by the Government.
The act does not contemplate or provide for suits against
the Government. On the contrary, it is essentially an act
of justice or of grace on the part of the United States,
elaborately and crefully worked out, and designed to
compensate, promptly, without litigation or expenso, all
employees injured while 'in discharge of duty, in an
amount, which, on the average, was thought adequate
and just. The amount of the award in each case is determined by a specially constituted commission, without
cost to the claimant, and it is allowed wholly without
regard to the negligence of the Government or its employees.
On the other hand, the right to sue the United States
under the Federal Control Act, applicable to all persons
alike, is-on the basis of negligence, precisely as if the Government were an operating commdn'carrier corporation,

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

and it is subject to all of the expense, delay and hazard
usual in cases of that character. The Compensation
Act deals only with, and confers rights only upon, employees of the Government, who must necessarily be
but a small percentage of those authorized to sue under
the Federal Control Act, and it is impossible for us to
conclude that Congress intended by the enactment of the
latter law to allow an employee to claim and receive the
compensation specially provided for him under the former
and then, while enjoying that benefit, to institute suit
against the Government under the Federal Control Act,
which might require it to make further payment for the
same injury and which must, in all cases, subject it to
expensive, harrassing and often long protracted litigation.
We find no language in the Federal Control Act inconsistent with the distinct expression of purpose on the part
of Congress which we have found in the Compensation
Act, to treat the payments under it as sufficient and final,
and for the reasons stated in the discussion herein of the
latter act and because the petitioner elected to pursue
to payment the remedy given him thereunder, we agree
with the Circuit Court of Appeals that his right of action
asserted in this case was barred and the judgment of
that court is therefore
Affirmed.

