OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

258 U.S.

to recover. The rule is a novel and cunning device to defeat the normal liability ,of carriers and should not be
made a favorite of the courts.
Believing, as I do, fQr the reasons thus stated, that the
thirty-day notice really is much more unjust when applied
to passenger than to property claims and also because its
application will work as grave discrimination and injustice
in other cases~as it so palpably does in this case, I think
the rule of puJtlic policy declared in the Cummins Amendment should be followed and that the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed.
NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAIIROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 96. Argued January 19, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
A railroad after accepting and transporting without protest, as mail
matter, a shipment of gold in mail sacks consigned by the Treasury Department, and after receiving the amount fixed by readjustment for carrying mail matter under its contract therefor, has
no claim for additional pay for carrying the gold and attendant
railway mail guards, whether the shipment was properly mail matter and the requirements of the statute concerning postal service
were technically complied with, or not. P. 33.
55 Ct. Clms. 536, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition.

Mr. S. S. Ashbaugh, with whom Mr. E. G. Buckland
and Mr. A. P. Russell were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney Gbneral, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck
was on the brief, for the United States.

N. Y., N. H. & HARTFORD R. R. CO. v. U. S.
32.

33

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a claim for $5,020.65 as the claimant's proportion of joint through express rates for carrying $5,000,000
in gold from Philadelphia to Boston, and the passenger
fares for seven men who accompanied the gold as guards
from New York to Springfield, Massachusetts, that being
the distance that the claimant carried the gold. The
Court of Claims ordered the petition to be dismissed.
On October 23, 1914, the gold was delivered by the
Treasury Department to the Postoffice Department in
one thousand sealed bags, each weighing 183/ pounds,
which were placed in one hundred and sixty-seven locked
mail pouches labelled "Boston, Mass." The Treasury
prepaid the postage required for fourth class mail matter,
at parcel post rates, amounting to $420. On reaching
New York the gold was placed in a vault subject to the
call of the chief clerk of Railway Mail Service. The next
day the chief clerk and other railway officials took the
pouches to the Grand Central Station where they were
placed in a postal' car attached to a regular passenger
train of the claimant. The car with its contents was carried to Springfield and there delivered to the Boston and
Albany road. It carried with the gold seven officials of
the Railway Mail Service, all having the requisite travel
commissions from the Postmaster General. No protest
was made by any carrier and the claimant was paid and
received without protest thc amount fixed by readjustment orders for carrying the mail over its route.
The claimant admitting that it could not demand additional pay for hauling the mails, New York, New Haven
& Hartford R. R. Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 123,
argues that the transaction was not "mail service" such
as it had contracted to perform or within the classification
of mail matter. It urges that in view of the weight limit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

eleven pounds, in force July 1, 1913, when its four-year
term began; the weight of these bags, 1834 pounds; of the
contents, gold; and of the fact that the bags were sealed
and placed in locked pouches, the Postmaster General
could not make the service mail service if he tried. We
think.-it unnecessary to discuss the argument, if there is
anything in it. The service here, righ.tly or wrongly, was
demanded as mail service, was rendered as mail service
and was paid for without protest as mail service, Whether
the Treasury technically complied with all the requirements' of the statute concerning postal service did not
matter to the claimant. By giving its claim a different
name -from that passed upon in New York, New Haven &
Hartford R. R. Co. v. United Stdtes, 251 U. S. 123, 127,
the claimant does not better its case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY was absent and took no part in

the decision.
BURRMLL, TREASURER AND RECEIVER-GENERAL OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, v. LOCOMOBILE COMPANY.
SAME v. RUSSELL, MILLER MILLING COMPANY.
-ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 98, 99.

Argued January 25, 26, 1922.-Decided February 27,
1922.

1. Massachusetts Statutes 1909, c. 490, Part III, §§ 70 and 71, provides, as the exclusive remedy for recovering a tax illegally exacted
under the act, a petition to the Supreme Judicial Court and prompt
repayment by the State of the sum there adjudged, and relieves
the collector from liability to personal action. P. 37.
2. The time fixed for filing the petition-six months-is reasonable.
P. 37.

