OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

ESSANAY FILM MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
KANE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 70. Submitted November 10, 1921.-Decided April 10, 1922.
A suit in the District Court to enjoin the defendant from further
prosecuting a suit against the plaintiff in a state court, upon the
ground that the process served in the state court was void and was
not due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment, is forbidden by Jud. Code, § 265. (Rev. Stats.,
§ 720). P. 360.
264 Fed. 959, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court, which dismissed
the bill in a suit brought by the appellant to restrain the
appellee from prosecuting an action in a state court.

Mr. William M. Seabury for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee William R. Kane, a citizen and resident
of New Jersey, having in the year 1917 commenced in
the Supreme Court of that State an action at law against
appellant, a corporation of Illinois, seeking recovery of
$20,000 damages for conversion of certain personal property. and having sought to acquire jurisdiction over

defendant in personam by service of the summons and
complaint upon the Secretary of State, under a statute
that made him the proper official to be served, in the
absence of a person designated by the company itself
in the year 1910 as its agent upon whom process against
the corporation might be served; and appellee having
proceeded in the action to the extent of causing an interlocutory judgment to be entered against the company

ESSANAY FILM CO. v. KANE.
358.

Opinion of the Court.

in default of its appearance to answer the complaint, and
being thereupon entitled under the statc practice, in the
absence of objection, to take further proceedings and
through an assessment of damages to procure a final
judgment, appellant' brought this suit in equity in the
United States District Court for New Jersey, praying an
injunction to restrain further prosecution of the action
at law by appellee, upon the ground that his alleged
cause of action, if any, arose outside the State; that
appellant did not then or at any time transact business
within the State; that it had designated an office.and
named a local representative in 1910, and made a proper
statement to enable .it lawfully to transact business in
that State in compliance with the state law, for a- temporary purpose which had expired; that while such
agency for receipt of process against appellant continued,
it related only to actions arising out of business transacted in the State; that the attempted service of process
upon the Secretary of State, as appellant's agent, was
void and of no effect and was not due process of law within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that
appellee's threatened prosecution of his suit to final judgment would result in a taking of appellant's property
without due process of law, to its irremediable injury.
Appellee answered, alleging in substance (among other
things) that he had a good cause of action arising out of
a conversion of personalty intrusted to appellant in the
course of business transacted by it; that appellant had
made itself subject to the laws of New jersey by voluntarily filing a certificate enabling it to transact business
in that State, and could not limit the effect of such filing;
and that under the laws of that State the service of the
summons and complaint upon the Secretary of State was
good service and conferred upon the Supreme Court
jurisdiction over appellp.nt.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

The cause came on for final hearing upon the bill and
answer and a stipulation of the parties that the matters
set forth in those pleadings should be taken as the facts
in the case; whereupon the District Court held that the
proceedings in the state court were within the letter and
spirit of the prohibition of § 265, Judicial Code, which
reenacted § 720, Rev. Stats.: "The writ of injunction shall
not be granted by any court of the United States to
stay proceedings in any court of a,State, except in cases
where such injunction may be authorized by any law
relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." 256 Fed. 271.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decision upon
the same ground, 264 Fed. 959; and an appeal brings the
case here.
In this court, as in the courts below, appellant's chief
reliance is upon Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S.
115. Without intimating that in other respects the cases
are parallel, it is a sufficient ground of distinction that
this is an attempt to use the process of the federal court
to restrain further prosecution of an action still pending in a state court, while that cited was a case of
enjoining a successful litigant from enforcing a final judgment of a state court held void because procured without
due process. As was pointed out in that case, pp. 123 et
seq., the prohibition originated in the Act of Congress of'
March 2, 1793, c. 22, § 5, 1 Stat. 334, was based
upon principles of comity, and designed to avoid inevitable and irritating conflicts of jurisdiction. But
when the litigation in the state court has come to an
end and final judgment has been obtained, the question
whether the successful party should in equity be debarred
from enforcing the judgment, either bc-cause of his fraud
or for the want of due process of law in acquiring jurisdiction, is a different question, which may be passed upon
by a federal court without the conflict which it was the
purpose-of the Act of 1793 to avoid.

ESSANAY FILM CO. v. KANE.
358.

Opinion of the Court.

That appellant's objection to the action sought to be
restrained rests upon a fundamental ground and 'One based
upon a provision of the Constitution of the United States,
does not render the effort to stay proceedings in the state
court any the less inconsistent with §.265, Judicial Code.
That section would be of little force did it not apply to
cases where, save for its prohibition, good ground would
exist for enjoining the prosecution of a pending suit.
And, as to the federal question involved, Congress at all
times, commencing with the first Judiciary Act (September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 25, 1 Stat. 73, 85), has maintained
upon the statute book such provisions as it deemed needful for reviewing judicial proceedings in the state courts
involving a denial of federal rights, but has confined them
to a direct review by this court, and deferred this until
final judgment or decree in the state court of last resort.
At the same time, since 1793, the prohibition of the use
of injunction from a federal court to stay proceedings in
a state court has been maintained continuously, and has
been consistently upheld. Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712,
723, and cases cited. In exceptional instances the letter
has been departed from while the spirit of the prohibition
has been observed; for example, in cases holding that, in
order to maintain the jurisdiction of a federal court properly invoked, and render its judgments and decrees effectual, proceedings in a state court which would defeat
or impair such jurisdiction may be enjoined. French v.
Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S.494,
'497; Julianv. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93, 112; Madisonville Traction Co. v. St. BernardMining Co., 196 U. S.
239, 245; Looney v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 247 U. S. 214,
221. The effect of this, as will be observed, is but to enforce the same freedom from interference on the one hand,
that it is the prime object'of § 265 to require on the other.
Besides a challenge of the jurisdiction of. the state court
for want of due process over defendant in personam, to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

interposed in that court, and, if overruled, followed by invoking the revisory jurisdiction of this court, the final
judgment may be questioned collaterally, if in truth there
be a want of due process, either defensively, as in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 723-733; see, also, York v.
Texas, 137 U. S. 15, 20-21; Western Indemnity Co. v.
Rupp, 235 U. S. 261, 273; Baker v. 'Baker, Eccles & Co.,
242 U. S. 394, 401-403; or by adopting the more aggressive method pursued in Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., supra;
see, also, Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254 U. S. 175,
183-185. In short, observance by the federal courts,
towards litigants in the state courts, of the comity prescribed by § 265, requires orderly procedure but involves
no impairment of the substance of constitutional right.
The case before us presents no exceptional feature, and
the courts below correctly disposed of it.
Decree affirmed.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF GULFPORT, MISSISSIPPI, v. ADAMS, REVENUE AGENT OF THE
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
CERTIORARI TO THE

SUPRE'IE COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MISSISSIPPI.

No. 136. Argued March 2, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.
1. A state tax upon a national bank, based on its capital stock, surplus,
undivided profits and other property, is not equivalent to a tax
upon the shareholders in respect of their shares and is invalid under
Rev. Stats., § 5219. P. 364.
2. When the validity of an assessment by state officers is challenged
here, the court must determine the effect of the thing actually done;
what might have been done under the local statute is not controlling. P. 365.
123 Miss. 279; 84 So. 707, reversed.

