NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.

165

Syllabus.

158.

the bill does not connect them with any of the other questions sought to be presented or predicate any other claim
to relief on them They therefore are covered by the ruling that suits to set aside, annul or suspend the Commission's orders should be brought in the District Courts
where all proper parties, including the United States, may
be made defendants and accorded an appropriate hearing.
What has been said suffices to show that we are not at
liberty to entertain the bill in the exercise of our limited
original jurisdiction.
In passing it should be observed that some of the provisions of the Transportation Act, assailed by the bill,
have recently been upheld in other cases brought before
us in regular course on appeal from decrees in the District Courts. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563;
New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591.
Bill dismissed.
NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, ET AL. v. CONSOLIDATED GAS
COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY OF NEW YORK
v. NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY OF NEW YORK
v. NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 257, 258 and 288.

Argued November 17, 18, 1921.-Decided
March 6, 1922.

1. The copying into the record, contrary to Equity Rules 75 and 76,
of voluminous stenographic reports of proceedings before a master,
useless exhibits and other matter irrelevant to the appeal, is an

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

indefensible practice which the court hereafter will feel at liberty
to punish to the limit of its discretion-possibly by dismissing the
appeal. P. 173.
2. Evidence held sufficient to support conclusions of the master and
trial court that the eighty-cent gas rate fixed by New York Laws
1906, c. 125, and upheld in Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212
U. S. 19, had become confiscatory when this suit was begun and
decided due to increased costs of labor and materials, and would
so continue. P. 174.
3. There is a presumption that profits realized by a gas company
while subject to supervision by a commission empowered to p;rohibit unreasonable rates were lawfully acquired. P. 175.
4. The public interest in the property of a public service corporation
dedicated to a public use, and the past success of its cnterprise,
will not support a demand that it operate indefinitely at a loss.
P. 175.
5. The fact that a gas company may not have supplied gas of the
candle power required by statute, will not debar it (as coming with
unclean hands) from equitable relief from a confiscatory rate, when
its conduct has been subject to official control and it has endeavored to nleet its customers' requirements. P. 175.
6. Books of a gas company, kept in ordinary course, under supervision of a public commission, and free from suspicion, held admissible as prima facie evidence of the confiscntory effect of a statutory
gas rate. P. 176.
7. As a condition to an injunction against a gas rate found confiscatory, the court has discretionary power, which, however, should be
exercise& very cautiously, to prescribe a maximum future rate for
a specified period as a limitation in favor of consumers. P. 177.
8. But a requirement that future collections made by the gas company above the confiscatory rate shall be impounded for ultimate
distribution in accordance with a rate to he fixed by state authority in the indefinite future is erroneous. P, 177.
9. The District Court has discretion to make orders pending appeal
to preserve the status quo until decision by the appellate court.
P. 177.
267 Fed. 231; 274 Fed. 986, modified and affirmed.

APPEALS and cross appeals from decrees of the District
Court in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of a statutory
gas rate.

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
165.

167

Argument for Newton, Attorney General.

Mr. John A. Garver and Mr. William L. Ransom, with
whom Mr. Charles A. Vilas and Mr. Jacob H. Goetz were
on the briefs, for Consolidated Gas Company.
Mr. Wilber W. Chambers, with whom Mr. Charles D.
Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, Mr.
Clarence R. Cummings and.Mr. John Holley Clark, Jr.,
were on the briefs, for Newton, Attorney General.
Appellants have not had their day in court as is guaranteed them by the Constitution; and for this reason the
case should be reversed and remanded for a new trial.
Respondent enjoyed an adequate return upon the fair
value of its property from its inception to the end of the
year 1917. The evidence showed that not only did it
enjoy such a fair return but it made enormous profits
throughout this entire period.
In the years of 1918 and 1919, on which the finding of
confiscation was based by the court below, the respondent
earned more than a fair return.
The period selected by respondent in its bill of complaint, viz, from the time the statute took effect in 1906
to 1918, inclusive, should be adopted in this case, and the
statute should not be considered confiscatory merely upon
the financial result obtained in one abnormal year (1918)
and part of another (10 months of 1919).
The respondent has accumulated a fund amounting to
$11,801,659.48 for "contingencies ". The statute should
not be declared confiscatory until this fund is exhausted.
Temporary losses due to abnormal conditions should be
debited against it.
The statute in question should not be declared unconstitutional unless the court finds that the average rate
of return has been less than 6% for a considerable period
of time.
The sum of $7,781,000 allowed by the master and the
court below for franchises should be excluded from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Newton, Attorney General.

258 U. S.

property upon which the respondent is entitled to a return.
The master and the court below have included in the
property upon which respondent is entitled to a return,
various properties which are not used and useful in respondent's gas business, and should be excluded.
The Fifty-seventh street office building was not an
adequate improvement upon the land upon which it was
erected and should not be included in the rate base.
Moreover, had respondent rented equivalent office space
nearby, there would have been an annual saving of at
least $36,000 which should be credited in this case to operating expenses.
Power to regulate gas rates is a sovereign power; one
legislature may not bind a succeeding legislature, and any
act of a corporation under a general or special law does
not of itself establish a property or a contract right
which limits the legislature's power to regulate rates.
The master and the court below erred in failing to follow the rule laid down by this court that, in determining
the fair value of respondent's property, depreciation
should be deducted.
Respondent has an unliquidated claim against the
United States because the Government extracted light
oils from its gas during a part of 1918. Until this has
been decided there can be no safe basis for disposing of
this case.
The master erred in refusing to admit any testimony
showing the tests made by the City of New York concerning the quality of gas furnished by respondent to its consumers prior to 1916. Furthermore, there were many
other errors committed by the master in the admission
and exclusion of evidence relating to a compliance with
the statute in regard to the quality of gas. The evidence
allowed was sufficienf to establish that respondent repeat-

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
165.

169

Argument for Swan, District Attorney.

edly violated the statute in regard to candle power; and
for this reason alone the bill of complaint should have
been dismissed.
Reversible error was committed in the admission of
respondent's books.
The master erred repeatedly in admission and exclusion
of evidence, which errors were not corrected in the court
below.
Mr. John P. O'Brien, with whom Mr. James A. Donnelly, Mr. Harry Hertzoff and Mr. Alex I. Hahn were on
the briefs, for Swann, District Attorney.
The defendants have not had a fair trial.
The period found is altogether too brief.
The burden was upon the plaintiff of proving the
statute unconstitutional.
The plaintiff's books of accounts were not prima facie
proof of their contents.
Distinguishing, Rowland v. St. Louis & San Francisco
R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 106, 108; Boyle v. St. Louis & San
Francisco R. R. Co., 222 Fed. 546, 547; Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Keyes, 91 Fed. 47, 58; Kings County Lighting
Co. v. Nixon, 268 Fed. 143; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.
v. Stojanowski, 191 Fed. 720; Parker v. United States,
203 Fed. 950; Wilson v. United States, 190 Fed. 430;
American Surety Co. v. Pauly, 72 Fed. 470; Grace v.
Brown, 86 Fed. 155; Bacon v. Conroy, 172 Fed. 532;
Barber Co. v. Forty-second Street Ry. Co., 180 Fed. 648.
Relying on: 17 Cyc. 394, 395; Collins v. Collins, 102 App.
Div. 204; Consolidated Safety Pin Co. v. Humbert, 128
N. Y. S. 710, 711; Mayor v. Second Avenue R. R. Co., 102
N. Y. 572; Blum v. Davis, 95 Misc. 140; Pneumatic Signal Co. v. Texas & Pacific R. R. Co., 216 N. Y. 374; The
Norma, 68 Fed. 509; Wigmore on Evidence, ยง 1530; Wells
Whip 'Co. v. Tanners Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 209 Pa. St.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Swann, District Attorney.

258 U. S.

488; Pelican Lumber Co. v. Johnson, 44 Tex. Civ. App.
206, 207; Reyburn v. Queen City Savings Bank Co., 171
Fed. 609, 615, 616; Slate V. Stephenson, 69 Kans. 405;
San Pedro Lumber Co. v. Reynolds, 121 Cal. 74; Meyer
v. Brown, 130 Mich. 449; Stolz v. Scott, 28 Idaho, 417;
Stuart v. Camp Carson Mining Co., 84 Ore. 702.
The plaintiff's proof of the cost of manufacturing its'
gas is defective.
There was no competent proof of plaintiff's distribution
expenses; nor proof that the amounts alleged to be paid
for oil were reasonable, and they should not be allowed.
Franchises should not be included in the rate base.
Willcox v. Consolidated Gaw Co., 212 U. S. 19, 43; Cumberland Tel. Co. v. Louisville, 187 Fed. 637, 647; Lincoln
Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 182 Fed. 928; Public Service Gas Co.
v. Utility Commissioners, 84 N. J. L. 463; Duluth Street
Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 161 Wisc. 245; Spring
Valley Waterworks v. San Francisco, 192 Fed. 137; Home
Telephone Co. v. Carthage, 235 Mo. 644; Bronx Gas Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 190 App. Div. 13, 25.
The court erred in fixing the value of the plaintiff's
property.
The statute is not unconstitutional unless the plaintiff
is unable to earn a return which is security for its investment. San Diego Land Co. v. National City, 174 U. S.
739, 754; San Diego Land Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Bartine, 170 Fed. 725; Lincoln
Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 250 U. S. 256.
The production cost found was based on an erroneous
conception of the evidence.
The plaintiff should have adopted the coke-oven
system.
Even on the District Judge's findings, the statute
should not be held confiscatory.

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
165.

171

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Consolidated Gas Company was organized in 1884
by consolidation of six corporations then manufacturing,
distriuting and selling gas in New York City and has continued to carry on the business, making additions and extensions as required by the increasing demand. Chapter
125 Laws of New York 1906 required it .to sell gas with
illuminating power of twenty-two candles, at no mare
than eighty cents per thousand cubic feet. A suit brought
soon-after this act be6came effective to enjoin its enforcement, because confiscatory, was finally dismissed without
prejudice, Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19,
and' for many years thereafter the Company supplied gas
at the prescribed rate. January 16, 1919, it instituted the
present proceeding against the Attorney General and
other public officers. The bill alleges that tle statutory
rate is confiscatory-prevents an*d will continue to prevent
a fair return on the property- used--and prays for an injunction.
A Masterj appointed in May, 1919, heard testimony
from day to day for eight months-about twent'r thousand printed page's-and presented this -to the.court with
his report and opinion, Maay 5, 1920. Having considered
the results of actual operations during all of 1918 and the
first eight months of 1919, and.'well known subsequent
conditions, he 6oncluded:
'On the basis of the prices; rates of pa, and costs, prevailing during the eight moihths beginning January 1,
1919, the cost of making and distributing gas has beensuch
as to allow a very small, if any return; on even the actual
investment; and since September 1, 1919, the cost.of making and distributing gas has been increased in a number of
respects so that the fair inference is that the complainant
company now finds itself'without any return upon the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

vestment. The conditions found by me have existed for
more than a year last past, and to a lesser degree for at
least a year before that time, and will continue for at least
a considerable period of time, the end of which cannot now
be forecast. Upon such a situation and such a prospect,
I think that the complainant company has shown itself,
clearly and beyond all reasonable doubt, entitled to relief
from the statutory limitation on its rates, but that its rate
of return should be calculated, not upon the present high
reproduction cost of its property, with or without the
deduction of observed or actual depreciation, in whatever
manner computed, but upon the actual, reasonable investment in the property devoted to the service of the complainalit's consumers."
In a carefully prepared opinion, while disagreeing with
the Master concerning some valuations and resolving all
doubts against the Company, the court held the prescribed rate had been confiscatory since January 1, 1918,
and would continue so to be. 267 Fed. 231; 274 Fed. 986.
An amended decree-entered August 11, 1920-enjoined enforcement of the act upon condition "that until
March 1, 1921, or until the earlier promulgation of a gasrate applicable to the plaintiff by some competent authority of the State of New York, the plaintiff shall
neither charge nor collect for the sale of gas in the City of
New York more than the sum of one dollar and twenty
cents per thousand cubic feet." And also upon the further condition that it should impound, or adequately secure, collections above eighty cents per thousand cubic
feet, for ultimate distribution in accordance with any rate
so established.
A broad appeal was allowed in No. 257, September 9,
1920. In No. 258 -n appeal, allowed November 10, 1920,
brings up those parts of the August decree which imposed
conditions upon continuation of the injunction.

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
165.

173

Opinion of the Court.

February 28, 1921, the trial court undertook to modify
the August decree by directing that the excess derived
from sales above eighty cents per thousand feet should
be impounded until three months after determination of
the appeal here or until a rate should be fixed by competent state authority; and further, that such sums should
be subject to ultimate distribution "as nearly as may
equitably be done" in accordance with that rate and the
approved principles and findings relative thereto. The
appeal from this order is No. 288.
Equity Rules 75 and 761 direct that records on appeal
shall not set forth the evidence fully but in simple condensed form and require omission of non-essentials and
mere formal parts of documents. Without apparent attempt to comply with these rules and with assent of appellee's counsel, appellants in No. 257 have filed a record
I Equity Rule 75. . . . (b) The evidence to be included in
the record shall not be set forth in full, but shall be stated in simple
and condensed form, all parts not essential to the decision of the
questions presented by the appeal being omitted and the testimony
of witnesses being stated only in narrative form, save that if either
party desires it, and the court or judge so directs, any part of the
testimony shall be reproduced in the exact words of the witness.
The duty of so condensing and stating the evidence shall rest primarily on the appellant, who shall prepare his statement thereof
and lodge the same in the clerk's office for the examination of the
other parties at or before the time of filing his procipe under paragraph a of this rule. .
Equity Rule 76. In preparing the transcript on an appeal, es"pecial care shall be taken to avoid the inclusion of more than one
copy of the same paper and to exclude the formal and immaterial
parts of all exhibits, documents and other papers included therein;
and for any infraction of this or any kindred rule the appellate court
may withhold or impose costs as the circumstances of the case and the
discouragement of like infractions in the future may require. Costs
for such an infraction may be imposed upon offending solicitors as
well as parties. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

of 21 volumes-twenty thousand printed pages--made up
largely of stenographic reports of proceedings before the
Master with hundreds of useless exhibits and many thousand pages of matter without present value. This is indefensible practice which we shall hereafter feel at liberty
to punish to the limit of our discretion-possibly by dismissal of the appeal. These rules were intended to protect the courts against useless, burdensome records and
litigants from unnecessary costs and delay. Counsel
ought to comply with them, and trial courts should enforce performance of this plain duty.
The fundamental question presented for determination
was whether the eighty-cent rate had been confiscatory
under conditions existing during 1918 and 1919 and probably would continue so to be. Considering the rulings
here in Wilicox v. Consolidated Gas Co. and other cases,
the answer required little more than an appreciation of
facts not very difficult to ascertain. The Master's report
and opinion disclosed careful and intelligent consideration of the whole matter. "Resolving all doubts against
the plaintiff" and using valuations "pared down unsparingly," the trial court agreed with the Master's ultimate findings and ruled that to enforce the statute would
result in confiscation. Since March 30, 1921, the Public
Service Commission has had power to prescribe rates for
appellee unrestricted by the maximum specified in the Act
of 1906; but no such action has been taken. It did, however, authorize a rate of one dollar and forty cents, instead of eighty cents, for another company operating in
New York City, effective after August 1, 1920, and has
thus indicated its informed judgment. See Morrell v.
Brooklyn Borough Gas Co., 231 N. Y. 398. We are, of
course, aware of the enormous increase in cost of labor and
materials since this court declared that appellee might
possibly earn six per centum under the eighty-cent rate.
In view of all these things, only very cogent reasons would

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
165.

175

Opinion of the Court.

justify complete reversal of the challenged decree. The
points relied upon by appellants in No. 257 and their pupporting arguments have been considered, and we think no
such reasons are shown. To discuss all of these would
subserve no sufficient purpose-only a few present questions of general interest.
Appellants earnestly insist that they were denied fair
and impartial trial both by the Master and the court. So
far as it relates to the court, we dismiss the suggestion as
frivolous. Undoubtedly during the many months devoted to hearings the Master talked too much and often
unwisely; but, manifestly, appellants' counsel made the
situation unnecessarily difficult and failed to support the
Master's earnest efforts promptly to ascertain the essential facts. Looking at all the circumstances we are unable to conclude that any substantial right was denied.
The size of the record, eight months of almost daily hearings and the Master's reiterated offers to hear properly
prepared and helpful evidence show that -abundant opportunity was given for presentation of appellants' cause.
The Master wisely sought to exclude ill-advised cross examinations and other unimportant matter.
Since 1907 the Gas Company has been subject to supervision by a Commission empowered to prohibit unreasonable rates and the presumption is that any profits from
its business were lawfully acquired. Municipal Gas Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 225 N. Y. 89, 99. Mere
past success could not support a demand that it continue
to operate indefinitely at a loss. The public has no such
right in respect of private property although dedicated to
public use. When it became clear that the prescribed rate
had yielded no fair return for more than a year and that
this condition would almost certainly continue for many
months the Company was clearly entitled to relief.
The claim that appellee had failed to supply gas of the
prescribed candle power and therefore came into court

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

with unclean hands and should not be heard, is without
merit. The Company was subject to official control; the
facts as to candle power of the gas actually furnished are
in dispute; the calorific quality had become more important to most consumers than the illuminating one; the
Master reached the conclusion that the statutory standard
had been substantially complied with; it had earnestly
tried under very difficult circumstances to meet its customers' requirements. It sought relief from an unlawful
burden-the fundamental wrong arose from the statuteand we find nothing which could justify refusal to consider its demand.
Complaint is also made because the Master admitted
appellee's books in evidence. These books were kept in
the ordinary course under general supervision of the
Cormission, appeared free from suspicion of dishonesty,
were submitted to appellants' experts and were the only
readily available sources of detailed information concerning the Company's affairs. In the circumstances we think
no harm resulted from admitting them as prima facie
evidence. Rowland v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 106, 108.
The general doctrine applicable when rates are alleged
to be confiscatory has been so often stated that present
discussion of it is unnecessary. Knoxville v. Knoxville
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co.,
212 U. S. 19; Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238
U. S. 153; Rowland v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 106; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co.,
246 U. S. 178; Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co. v. Lincoln,
250 U. S. 256.
In No. 258 the Gas Company complains of the limit of
one dollar and twenty cents per thousand cubic feet up to
March 1, 1921, as a condition to continuation of the injunction, and also because sums above eighty cents per
thousand were impounded for ultimate distribution in

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
165.

177

Opinion of the Court.

accordance with arny rate which might be fixed thereafter
by competent state authority.
It was within the court's discretion to grant the injunction upon terms and we cannot now say that the
limitation upon charges amounted to abuse. But grave
injustice may result from action of this kind and the
power should be very cautiously exercised. See Morrell
. Brooklyn Borough Gas Co., 231 N. Y. 398. It was
error to direct ultimate distribution of the impounded
funds in accordance with any subsequently approved rate.
Rate making is no function of the courts and should not
be attempted either directly or indirectly. After declaring the eighty-cent rate confiscatory, the court should not
have attempted, in effect, to subject the Company for an
indefinite period to some unknown rate to be proclaimed
in the future upon consideration of conditions then prevailing.
The amendatory decree of February was obtained long
after appeals from the August decree had been granted
and when the court had very limited power over the litigation. " One general rule in all cases (subject, however,
to some qualifications) is that an appeal suspends the
power of the court below to proceed further in the cause."
Undoubtedly, after appeal the trial court may, if the purposes of justice require, preserve the status quo until decision by the appellate court. Hovey v. McDonald, P)9
U. S. 150, 157. But it may not finally adjudicate substantial rights directly involved in the appeal. Merrimack River Savings Bank v. Clay Center, 219 U. S. 527,
534. See First National Bank v. State National Bank,
131 Fed. 430. The precise result of the February decree
is somewhat doubtful, but we may treat it as an attempt
to preserve the status quo in order that this court might
.finally and completely dispose of the whole matter. Thus
interpreted the decree (No. 288) was within the court's

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

discretion and as there was no abuse -of this discretion it
must be affirmed.
All impounded funds should be promptly released to
the Gas Company subject only to deductions for such
costs as are clearly assessable to the prevrailing party.
Costs of appeal No. 257 will be taxed to appelldnts; in
No. 258 to the appellees. Modified as here indicated the
decree below is affirmed. The cause will be remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with thi opinion.
It seems proper to add that we do not intend by anything said herein to intimate what would have been a
reasonable rate for the sale of gas under the circumstances
disclosed. The eighty-cent rate wag confiscatory; the one
dollar and twenty-cent maximum imposed by the court
during a specified period as a condition to the injunction
was a limitation in favor of the consumers.
Modified and Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.

NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, ET AL. v. NEW YORK & QUEENS
GAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 296.

Argued January 6, 1922.-Decided March 6, 1922.

Approving the aonclusion of the master and the District Court that
a gas xate fixed under Laws New York, 1906, c. 125, had become
confiscatory.
269 Fed. 277, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree enjoining enforcement of a statutory'gas rate as confiscatory. See also the cases, antc,
165? and pcst/ 180,

