UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.

433

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 629.

Argued March 9, 10, 1922.-Decided April 17, 1922.

1. Imprisonment at hard labor, whether in a penitentiary or elsewhere,
is an infamous punishment within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, and prosecution for a crime so punishable must be by indictment or presentment by a grand jury. P. 435. Wong Wing v.
United States, 163 U. S.' 228, and Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417,
followed; Fitzpatrickv. United States, 178 U. S. 304, distinguished.
2. Hence, a prosecution in the Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia- for the crime of wilfully neglecting 6r refusing to provide
for the support and maintenance of minor ehildfen, defined by the
Act of March .23, 1906, and thereby made punishable by a fitie or
by imprisonment at hard labor in the workhouse of the District,
or by both, can not be by information. P. 438.
3. It is the punishment which may be, and not that which actually
is, imposed under the statute, that determines the right to prosecute otherwise than through a grapd jury. P. 441.
4. Where an act defining a misdemeanor provides for punishment by
fine or imprisonment at hard labor, the provisiotil as to hard labor
can not' be treated as severable to sustain a prosecution by information. P. 441.
276 Fed. 640, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which reversed a judgment of the Juvenile Court of the District sentencing the
respondent to six months' imprisonment in the workhouse
for the misdemeanor of wilfully'neglecting to support his
minor children, in violation of the Act of March 23, 1906,
c. 1131, 34 Stat. 86. The sentence was based on the verdict of a jury finding respondent guilty of this offense.
The judgment under review directed that the complaint
in the Juvenile Court be dismissed. The Act of March 19,
1906, c. 960, § 12, 34, Stat. 73, creating the Juvenile Court,
provided that prosecutions therein should be on informa-

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

tion of the corporation counsel or his assistant. The Act
of June 18, 1912, c. 171, § 8, 37 Stat. 134, conferred upon
that court concurrent jurisdiction with the Supreme Court
of the District in all cases arising under the Act of March
23, 1906, supra.
Mr. George P. Barse and Mr. F. H. Stephens, with
whom M3r. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Lewis B. Perkins were on the brief, for !he United States.
Mr. Foster Wood for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is what procedure, in the prosecution and conviction for crime, the Fifth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States makes dependent
upon the character of punishment assigned to the crime.
The Amendment provides that "no person shall be held
to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime,
unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury,
except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in
the militia, when in actual service in time of war or
public danger;
The respondent Moreland was proceeded against in the
Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia by information, not by presentment or indictment by a grand jury,
for the crime of wilfully neglecting or refusing to provide
for the support and maintenance of his minor children.
The statute prescribes the punishment to Le "a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment
in the workhouse of the'District of Columbia at hard
labor for not more than twelve months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment." Act of March 23, 1906, c. 1131,
34 Stat. 86.
He was tried by a jury and found guilty and, after
certain proceedings -with which we have no concern, he

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

Opinion of the Court.

was sentenced to the workhouse at hard labor for six
months.
The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and remanded the case to the Juvenile Court with directions to
dismiss the complaint. The court considered that it was
constrained to decide that the judgment was in violation
of the Fifth Amendment, and, therefore, to feverse it
on the authority of Wong Wing v. United States, 163
U. S. 228.
The United States resists both the authority and extent
of that case by the citation of others, which, it asserts,
modify or overrule it. A-review of it, therefore, is of
initial importance.
Certain statutes of the United States made it unlawful
under certain circumstances for a Chinese laborer to be in
the United States, and provided for his deportation by
certain officers, among others a Commissioner of a United
States court. And one of them (Act of 1892) provided
that, if a Chinese person or one of that descent was
"convicted and adjudged to be not lawfully entitled to
be or remain in the United States," he should "be imprisoned at hard labor for a period of not exceeding one
year and thereafter removed from the United States."
Wong Wing, a Chinese person (there were others arrested but for the purpose of convenience of reference we
treat the case as being against him only), was arrested
and taken-before a Commissioner of the Circuit Court for
the Eastern DIistrict of Michigan and adjudged to be unlawfully within the United States and not entitled to
remain therein. It was also adjudged that he be imprisoned at hard labor at and in the Detroit House of
Correction for the period of sixty dais.
The court, considering the statutes, said they operated
on two classes--one which came into the country with its
consent, the other which came in without consent and
in disregard of law, and that Congress had the constitu9544-23-31

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

tional power to deport both classes and to commit the
enforcement of the law to executive officers.
This power of arrest by the executive officer and the
power of deportation were sustained; but the puriishment
provided for by the act, and which was pronounced
against Wong Wing, that is, imprisonment at hard labor,
was decided to be a violation of the Fifth Amendment, he
not having been proceeded against by presentment or
indictment-by a grand jury.
The court noted the argument and the cases cited and
sustained the power of exclusion, but said that when
Congress went further and inflicted punishment at hard
labor it "must provide for a judicial tridl to establish
the guilt of .the accused ". And this because such punishment was infamous and prohibited by the Fifth
Amendment, the conditions prescribed by the Amendment not having been observed. The necessity of their
observance was decided, because, to repeat, imprisonment
at hard labor was an infamous punishment. In sanction
of the decision, Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 428, was
cited and 'quoted from. The citation was in point. Both
propositions were presented in that case, and both were
decided upon elaborate consideration and estimate of
authorities. See also Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S.
348, 350.
The United States urges against the Wong Wing Case
that four years after its decision the question of the infamy attached to punishments came up for consideration
and decision in Fitzpatrick v. United States, 178 U. S.
304, and that the WonglWig Case was not referred to.
The immediate answer is that a case is not overruled by
an omission to mention it. Besides, it was based on Ex
parte Wilson and that case was cited. The Wilson Case
was elaborate in the exposition of the law-its evolution
and extent. The various punishments or, we may say, the
various imprisonments t6 which infamy had been ascribed
were detailed, with citation of cases. ]jn these were in-

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

Opinion of the Court.

cluded as certain, imprisonment in a penitentiary. But it
was decided that the quality of infamy could attach to any
imprisonment if accompanied by hard labor. It was said,
and it was necessary to say, .in passing on Wilson's situation, that "imprisonment at hard labor, compulsory -and
unpaid, is, in the strongestsense of the words, 'involuntary
servitude for crime,' spoken of in the provision of the Ordinance of 1787, and of the Thirteenth Amendment of the
Constitution, by which ill other slavery was abolished."In other words, it was declared that if imprisonment was
in any other place than a penitentiary and was to be at hard
labor, the latter gave it character, that is, made it infamous
and brought it within the prohibition of the Constitution.
There is nothing in Fitzpatrick v. United States that
gives aid to the contention which counsel make, that it is
the place of imprisonment, that is, imprisonment in a
penitentiary, which makes the infamy, the accompaniment of hard labor being but an incident. It is true in
that -case it was said that "the test is not the imprisonment which is imposed, but that which may be imposed
under the statute." This manifestly was said to distinguish the character of the crime, as capital, and not to
assign a quality to the punishment. To assign a quality
to the punishment was a necessity in Wong Wing v.
United States and in Ex parte Wilson, and it was responded to by discussions pertinent to it, and by decisions
which were required by it. We can add nothing to the
fullness of the discussions or their adequacy, and the decisions pronounced as their consequence we. are not disposed to overrule They necessarily determine, therefore,
the present case and require the affirmance of the judgment of the Court of Appeals so far as it decides that the
sentence upon Moreland was void because of the inclusion
therein of the punishment of hard labor, he not having
been presented or indicted by a grand jury. And because
of their authority we do not review the cases cited by the
United States nor consider that they can be modified in

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

accommodation to the practice that is said to exist of
creating workhouses as places of punishment.
Some further comment becomes necessary. An attempt is made to modify the case or to remove it as
authority for that at bar. The means and pains taken to
accomplish it are somewhat baffling to representation.
We have cited the case for the proposition that imprisonment with the accompaniment of hard labor is an infamous punishment, made so by the accompaniment of
hard labor, and declared illegal because not upon Presentment or indictment by a grand jury.
Doulht is cast upon our right to so cite it, and it is, in
effect, asserted that the infamy of the imprisonment to
which Wong Wing was sentenced was not colnstituted by
the accompaniment of hard labor but was the attribute
of the imprisonment, the Detroit House of Correction
being,.it is said, a penitentiary. And this is attempted to
be established by the assertion of a fact extraneous to the
opinion of the court and the record in the cause. It is
true certain isolated sentences used by a Justice concurring in part and dissenting in part are referred to as to
what the court must have implied.
The assertion calls for reply. We have relied on the
case as authority and, regarding it as authority, we have
naturally refrained from the idleness, or, as it may be said,
the ostentation of general reasoning. We might, indeed,
leave the case to speak for itself to those who may need
to refer to its ruling and the ruling in the present case, but
some comment, though it may not be necessary, is justified.
It is to be kept in mind that the case concerned the
Constitution of the United States and necessarily had a
purpose beyond its incident and time. Its precept became
a part of the Constitution and in realization of this the
court'took care that the -grounds of its decision were
neither obsdure nor -uncertain. Its opinion demonstrates
this, and that there was no misunderstanding of the points

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

Opinion of the Court.

of counsel nor ambiguity ir passing upon them. What
was not in controversy, of course, received -no attention,
and the infamy of imprisonment in a penitentiary was
not in controversy; that was of universal acceptance then,
as now, and an intimation of its existence would have
been enough to have caused Wong Wing's delivery from
custody on the instant; nor would the United States have
resisted. There was in controversy, however, the question
whether imprisonment in any prison or place, at hard
labor, as a sentence for crime, was infamous. Upon that
counsel were in opposition, and it was subinitted for decision. The court contrasted the contentions.
Wong.Wing's was recognized as a claim that hi sentence to imprisonment at haid laborinflicted an infamous
punishment and hence'conflicted with the,Fifth and Sixth
Amendments of the Constitution of the United States, he
not having been presented or indicted by a grand jury.
"On the other hand," the court said, "it is contended
on behalf of the Government that it has never -been decided by this court that in all cases where the punishment
may be confinement at hard labor the crime is infamous,
aild many cases are cited from the reportg of the state
Supreme Courts, where the constitutionality of statutes
providing for summary proceedings, without a jury trial,
for the punishment by imprisonment at hard labor of
vagrants and disorderly persons has been upheld."
The comment was an anticipation of some things that
.are urged in this case. At any rate, the contrast of contentions shows unmistakably upon what the court's decision was invoked,' and, while it decided, as we have seen,
We may quote, in corroboration, that even the concurring Justice

said, the question involved was whether a Cbinese person could "be
lawvfully convicted and sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor for
a definite period by a commissioner without indictment or trial by
jury." The italics are the Justice's and we copy their emphasis as it
-demonstrates that the fact of hard labor was that which determiined
the ease.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U.S.

that the Commissioner had power under the Act of 1892
to order Wong Wing deported and to sentence him to imprisonment, Congress could not legally invest the Commissioner with power to make hard labor an adjunct of
the imprisonment. It was, in effect, said that the adjunct made the imprisonment infamous and beyond the
power of legislation to direct without making provision
"for a judicial trial to establish the guilt of the accused."
Wong Wing was, therefore, discharged from custody.
That the place of imprisonment was not considered
either pertinent or determinative is established by the
fact that the Detroit House of Correction was not a penitentiary nor regarded as such. It was, and is, what its
name implies-a place of correction and reformation; not
of condemnation to infamy and, it might be, to a perpetual criminal career. Howell's Mich. Stats. Anno., 2nd
ed., c. 430, p. 5915, et seq.; Mich. Laws 1861, p. 262, Act
No.
Compiled Laws of Mich. 1897, c. 76.
It 164;
is an institution of the City of Detroit and
the act
creating it designated its use to be "for the confinement,
punishment and reformation of criminals or persons sentenced thereto. . . ." How this use iS regulated and
its purpose accomplished are detailed in too much legislation to be reproduced. The House of Correction stands
in a unique relation to the state prison and while it may
under circumstances, and in the discretion of a condemning court, be a place of imprisonment for offenders
that might be committed to the state prison, yet always
it is kept distinct from the state prison. It does not,
therefore, make its use as a place of confinement for other
offenses a penitentiary with its attachment of infamy.
Its purpose is reformation, instruction in conduct, and
diversion from a criminal career. To make it, therefore,
a penitentiary would defeat the purpose of its creation. ,
We have dwelt on this matter at length because we
think more is involved than the power to deport aliens, or

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

BRANDEIS,

J., TAF-r, Ch. J., and

HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

to punish them for illegal entry into the country-more
than to deliver one from punishment who has defied the
orders of a court, that enjoined upon him the manifest
duty of supporting his minor children. It concerns the
recognition and-enforcement of a provision of -the Constitution of the United States expressing and securing an
important right. And the right, at times, must be accorded one whose conduct tempts to a straining -of the
law against him.
. The ultimate contention of the United States is that
the provisions of the Act of March 23, 1906, for punistment by fine or imprisonment are severable, and that,
therefore, it was error in the Court of Appeals in holding
the act unconstitutional to direct the dismissal of th
case instead of sending it back for further proceedings.
The contention is untenable. It is what sentence can
be imposed under the law, not what was imposed, that is
the material consideration. When an accused is in danger of an infamous punishment if convicted, he has a right
to insist that he be not put upon trial except on the accusation of a grand jury. Ex parte Wilson and Mackin v.
United States, supra.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

with whom concurs MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE TAFT and MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES,

dissenting.

On January 18, 1921, an information, under the Act of
March 23, 1906, c. 1131, 34 Stat. 86, was filed against
Moreland in the Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia for wilfully neglecting to provide support for his
minor children-girls aged eight and thirteen. He was
tried by a jury and found guilty. The court suspended
sentence and ordered him to pay each month for their

442
BRANDEIS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
J., TAFT, Ch" J., and

HOLMES,

J., dissenting. 258 U.S.

support th6 sum of thirty dollars. Having failed to make
any payment under this order, Moreland was sentenced
on April 19, 1921, to be committed to the workhouse at
hard labor for six months, the superintendent topay to
the mother for the support of the children fifty cents for
each day's hard labor performed by him. Moreland had
insisted that the offense with which he had been charged
was an infamous crime, since the statute prescribes as
punishment imprisonment at hard labor; and he claimed
that rights guaranteed ,:y the Fifth Amendment had been
violated, because he had been made to answer to the
charge without having been indicted by the grand jury.
His. claim was overruled by the Juvenile Court. Upon
writ of error the Court of Appeals of the District, 276
Fed. 640, relying upon Wong Wing v. United States, 163
U. S. 228,dreversed the judgment of the Juvenile Court
and directed that the complaint be dismissed. The case
came here on writ of certiorari. 2,7 U. S. 631.
The Fifth Amendment declares. "No person shall be
held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime,
unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury,
" Whether a crime is infamous within the meaning
of the Fifth Anmiendment may be determined by the character of the punishment or by other incidents of the sentence prescribed. Ex parte Wilson, 114 U.'S. 417, 426. In
the Wong Wing Case the commitment was to an institution which was named the Detroit House of Correction,
but served also as a state prison or penitentiary." ImI-It seems clear that the court had this fact in mind. In his concurring opinion Mr. Justice Field said, p. 241: "It does pot follow
that, because the Government may expel aliens or exclude them from
coming to this country, it can confine them at hard labor in a penitentiary before deportation or subject them to any harsh and cruel
punishment." In Ex parte Wilson, 114-U. S. 417, 428, strongly relied
upon by the court, pp. 234, 237, 242, Mr. Justice Gray said: "For
'more than a century, imprisonment at hard labor in the State prison

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

BrtANiDis, J., TAFr, Ch. J., and HOLmES, J., dissenting.

prisonment in a state penitentiary is an infamous punishment whether it be with or without hard labor.- In re
Claasen, 140 U. S. 200, 205. Moreover, the commitment
in the Wong Wing Case was not under sentence of a court
or after conviction by a jury. It was by direction of a
commissioner of the United States. The punishment by
imprisonment was thus imposed under an executive order,
and, hence, was clearly void under the Constitution, whatever its character or incidents, its duration or the place of
confinement. The question here involved is different. It
is whether the mere fact that the act prescribes hard labor
as an incident of the sentence of confinement in the workhouse, renders the offence (Which the statute describes as
a misdemeanor) an infamous crime within the prohibition
of the Fifth Amendment.
The Act of March 23, 1906, declares that any person in
the District of Columbia who shall wilfully neglect to
provide for his minor children under the age of sixteen in
destitute circumstances, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment in the workhouse of the District at hard labor for net more than
twelve months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
If a fine is imposed, the court may direct that it be paid
or penitentiary .or other similar institution has been considered an
infamous punishment in England and Americ,-." In the Wilson Case
the prisoner had been sentenced to the Detroit House of Correction
for the term of fifteen years for having passed counterfeit bonds. In
1892, when Wong Wing was sentenced, there were about 1700 United
States prisoners, other than those serving jail sentences, who were
confined in about sixty state and territorial institutions. The institution having the largest number, 432 on July 1, 1892, was the Detroit
House of Correction, these prisoners having been received from
various districts in the south and west, as well as from the Michigan
districts. Reports of Attorney General: for 1891, p. XI; for 1892,
pp. X,.270, 272. See Michigan Compiled Laws, 1897, §§ 2165, 2176,
2179-81, 11985.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BrNDIs,J., TAr, Ch. J.,

and

HOLMES,

J., dissenting. 258 U.S.

to the wife or other person in wyhose care the children are.
If the -father is confined to the workhouse, the superintendent is required to pay toward their support a sum
equal to fifty cents for each day's hard labor performed by
him. Either before trial or after conviction the father
may be released upon giving recognizance for the payment of a weekly allowance for the support of the children.
These provisions may be enforced by proceedings in the
Juvenile Court, Act of June 18, 1912, c. 171, § 8,*37 Stat.
.134, 136; and if so, they are commenced by information.
The accused is entitled to trial by jury, as the penalty
which may be imposed for the offence charged is a fine of
more than fifty dollars or imprisonment for more than
thirty days. Act of March 19, 1906, c. 960, § 12, 34 Stat.
73, 75.
The workhouse of the District of Columbia is at Oc-.
coquan in the State of Virginia. It is an industrial farm
of 1150 acres, bordering on the Occoquan River. On the
farm, in healthful and attractive surroundings, are many
small, well equipped buildings appropriate for the resi.1dence and occupation of the inmates. These are employed on the premises, partly in agricultural, partly in
indistrial, pursuits. In cultivating hundreds of acres of
land and in clearing, from time, to time, more; in fruit
brchards and dairy; in chicken and hog raising; in brick
manufacturing and stone crushing plants; in sawmill
op erations and a small shipyard; in the repair and construction of farm .implements, of roads and of buildings
iequired for the development of the institution; and in
transporting its products by water or otherwise. The
work'is such as is ordinarily performed .under favorable
conditions on farms, in factories and in the mechanical
trades; and it is not harder. The eight-hour work day
prevails.. There is a school, a library and a hospital.
_And there'es no wall, cell, lockor bar to restrain the inmates. Nor are they subjected to a distinctive dress such

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

BRANDEIS,

J., TAFT, Ch. J., and

HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

as marks offenders." By § 934 of the Code of the'District, persons sentenced by its courts to imprisonment
for not more than six months may ordinarily be committed either to the workhouse or to, the jail; if sentenced for more than six months and not more than one
year, the commitment must be to the jail; if sentenced
for more than one year, the commitment must be to a
penitentiary. The dominant purpose of Occoquan is
not punishment, but rehabilitation. The compulsory
labor is in a larger sense compulsory education. In the
case of those who are committed for non-support, it serves
also the purpose of compelling the performance of a
parental duty imposed by the common law.'
Confinement at hard labor in a workhouse or house of

correction for periods of less than a year was a punishment commnonly imposed in America in the colonial period, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution and
since, for offences not deemed serioufs-that is, for delinquencies as distinguished from serious crimes. Thus by
the Great Law of the Province of Pennsylvania of December 7, 1682, the penalty for clamorous scolding, railing
or lying was three days' imprisonment in the house of
correction at hard labor; for cursing, playing at cards
or dice, and for the first offence' of -drunkeiness, it was
five. For stage plays, bull baiting and cock fighting, it
was at least ten. And for dueling it was three months.
The duty to establish such a house "for restraint, correction, labour and punishment" was imposed upon every
county of Pennsylvania at the same time.3 A similar
' Reports of Superintendent of the Workhouse, in Annual Reports
of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, 1911 to 1921,
inclusive.
2
See Dunbar v. Dunbar, 190 U. S. 340, 351-2; William H. Baldwin, Family Desertion aiid Non-Support Laws (Washington, D. C.,
1904), p. 5.
8 Charter and Laws of the Province of Pennsylvania, 1682-1k70,
edition of 1879, pp. 107-123, 192-208 (regnacpr-ent of 1693).

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS, J., TAr, Ch. J., and HOLTMES, J., dissenting. 258 U.S.
1 in
Massachusetts Colony earlier; 2 and like provision was
made in other colonies.' By the Law of New York of
February 9, 1788, c. 31, confinement in the house of correction at hard labor was prescribed as the punishment
for all disorderly persons. And those "who threaten to
run away and leave their wives and children to the city or
town" were classed as disorderly persons, with vagrants,
beggars, idlers, fortune-tellers and common prostitutes. The period of imprisonment, limited ordinarily to
sixty aays or until the next general sessions of the peace,
could be extended by the general sessions for a further.
period of six months. In the counties of cities in which
there was no workhouse (bridewell) or house of correction, the jails were to be used and, considered as such.
A single institution often served as almshouse, insane asylum, workhouse, house of correction and jail.6 And under
all of these laws 6ommitment to the workhouse at hard
labor was made by a judge, jusfice of the peace, or magistrate, without presentment or indictment of a grand jury.

law had be6n enacted in Plymouth Colony in 1658;

Colony Laws (Boston, 1836), p. 120.
The Colonial Laws of Massachusetts (Boston, 1887), pp. 66

1 Plymouth
2

and 127.
3

Acts and Laws of His Majesty's English Colony of Connecticut in
New England in America (-New London, 1750), pp. 204-207; Acts
and Laws of the State of Connecticut in America (Hartford, 1786),
pp. 206-210; Laws of the Colony of Delaware, 1753, c. CXLVI;
Laws of the Colony of Marylahd, 1766, c. XXIX, § XV; Laws of the
State of Maryland, 4811, c. 96.
4Jails were used mainly as places for detaining prisoners awaiting trial and for confining poor debtors. Committal to a jail as
punishment was comparatively rare, except for religious or political
offences, in many of the colonies. H. E. Barnes, The Historical
Origin of the Prison System in Ame(,'a, XII Journal of Criminal
Law and Criminology, 35, 36.
ASee Statutes of Connecticut and Maryland cited in note 3,
supra. Barnes, History of Penal Institutions of New Jersey, pp.

48-51

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

BRANDEIS,

J., TAFr, Ch. J., and

HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

Confinement at hard labor in a workhouse or house of
correction did not imply infamy. Workhouses were not
open to the reception of felons. Besides being refuges,
they were in purpose correctional institutions in a true
sense of those words. They were deemed training schools
in which bad habits were to be eradicated and good ones
formed. The medium of instruction adopted was regular,
hard, productive work. The labor which inmates were
required to perform was not imposed as punishment or
as a means of disgrace. Nor was the confinement imposed primarily as punishment. That was administered
rather by the whipping "not exceeding ten stripes" to
which by some laws the newcomer was subjected on entering the institution.'. The proceeds of the' labor were
deemed, in large part, payment for maintenance. But
often part of the earnings were reserved for the inmate
or were ordered to be paid for the support of his family.2
It thus appears that the wilful neglect to provide for
wife and chilrd-cn in destitute circumstances for which
Congress sought L provide relief in 1906 was not a new
social manifestation and that the method employed by
it was not novel.'
It is not the provision for hard labor, but the imprisonment in a penitentiary which now renders a crime in' See Colonial Laws of Massachusetts (Boston, 1887), p. 127.
2 By the Connecticut laws, which applied to a range of social delinquents as comprehensive as those of Pennsylvania and New York,
it was provided that if the persons committed were "heads of
families, then, and in such case, the whole profit and benefit of their
labours, or so much thereof as the County Court of the county
where such persons are committed shall think necessary, and direct;
shall be for the relief, and support of their families." Acts and Laws
of His Majesty's English Colony of Connecticut in New England
in America (New London, 1750), p. 206.
3 Nor was it then unusual. See William H. Baldwin, Family Desertion and Non-Support Laws (Washington, D. C., 1904).

448
BRANDEIS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

J.,

TAFT,

Ch. J., and

HOLMrES,

J., dissenting. 258 T.S.

famous. Commitment to a penitentiary, with or without hard labor, connotes infamy, because it is proof of
the conviction of a crime of such a nature that infamy
was a prescribed consequence. Confinement in a penitentiary is the modern substitute for the death penalty
and for the other forms of corporal punishment which,
at the time of the adoption of the Fifth Amendment,
were still administered in America for most of the crimes
deemed serious.1 It was then believed that even capital
punishment should be inflicted under conditions involving
public disgrace. Largely for this reason hangings were
public; as in earlier days men had been drawn and
quartered. If the life of an offender was spared, it was
then thought that some other punishment involving disgrace must be applied to render his loss of reputation
permanent. When in 1786 Pennsylvania, shrinking from
the, physical cruelties inflicted under sentence of the
courts, 'took the first step in reform by substituting imprisonment for death, as the penalty for some of the lesser
felonies, the exposure to infamy was still deemed an
essential of punishment. The measure then enacted provided specifically that the imprisonment should be attended by "continuous hard labor publicly and disgracefully imposed." Hard labor as thus prescribed and pracH. E. Barnes, The Historical Origin of the Prison System in
America, XII Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, 35. The
then statutes of New York, for instance, recited sixteen capital
crimes: treason, murder, rape, buggery, burglary, robbery of a
church, breaking and entry, robbery, of person, robbery and intimidation in dwelling houses, arson, malicious maiming, forgery, counterfeiting, theft of a chose in action, second offense for other felonies,
and abetting any of the above crimes. The punishment, other than
death, then prescribed for serious crimes were mutilation, cutting
off the ears or nailing them to the pillory, branding, -vhipping, the
pillory, the stocks and the ducking stool. Laws of the Colony of
Nev York, 1788, c. 37, § 1, Greenleaf edition, 1792, vol. 1I, pp. 78,
79, Philip Klein, Prison Methods in New York, pp. 19-35.

UNITED STATES v. MORELAND.
433.

BRANDEIS,

J., TAFT, Ch. J., and HoiLMEs, J., dissenting.

ticed was merely an instrument of disgrace. The statutory direction was carried out by employing the convicts
in gang labor along the public roads, chained by fetters
with bomb shells attached and iron collars, with shaved
heads, and wearing a distinctive infamous dress.' The
demoralizing influence both upon the community and
the convict of these public manifestations of disgrace
was soon realized, and led, shortly after the adoptionof our Constitution, to their discontinuance in Pennsylvania and to the establishment in Philadelphia of America's first penitentiary."
Hard labor was not considered an essential element of
the penitentiary punishment; and experience proved that
it was in fact an alleviation. The most severe punishmerit inflicted was solitary confinement without labor. 3
Hard labor regularly pursued and productively employed
had for two centuries been applied as a corrective measure
in the effort to deal with social delinquents.4 Then the
belief spread that it might be effectively employed also in
the reformation of criminals-a class of persons !heretofore generally considered incorrigible. And when reform
and rehabilitation of those convicted of serious crimes
became a chief aim of the penal system, the dignity of
labor was proclaimed and the practices of the workhouse
1

Act of September 15, 1786, 12 Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania,
p. 280, c. MCCXLI; Robert Vaux, Notices of the original and successive efforts to improve the discipline of the prison at Philadelphia,
etc. (1826), pp. 8, 21, 22; y Tilliam Crawford, Report on the Penitentiaries of the United Stats (London, 1835), pp. 8, 9.
2 See Report of William Crawford on the Penitentiaries of the

United States (London, 1835), p. 27.
George Ives, A History of Penal Methods,. p. 174.
4 The law of Connecticut (see note 3, p. 446, supra,) was entitled
"An Act for restraining, correcting, suppressing, and punishing
rogues, vagabonds, common beggars, and other lewd, idle, dissolute,
profane and disorderly persons, and for setting them o %wTk,"

450
BRANDEIS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
J., TAFT, Ch. J., and

HOLIMIES, J.,

dissenting.

258 U. S.

were adopted and developed in the penitentiary.1 Thus
hard labor, which, in inflicting punishment for serious
crimes, had first been introduced as a medium of disgrace,
became the means of restoring and giving self-respect.
The purpose of the Fifth Amendment was stated by
Chief Justice Shaw in Jones v. Robbins, 8 Gray, 329, 347349; and his statement was quoted with approval by this
court in Ex parte Wilson, supra,p. 428. It was "to make
a marked distinction between crimes of great magnitude
and atiocity, and to secure every person against accusation
and trial for them without the previous interposition of a
grand jury," but "to leave minor and petty offenses to be
prosecuted without these formalities ". Imprisonment in
a penitentiary where the convict is (or used to be) "subject to solitary confinement, to have his hair cropped, to
be clothed in conspicuous prison dress, subjected to hard
labor without pay, to hard fare, coarse and meagre food,
and to severe discipline" is a punishment deemed infamous; but commitment to a "house of correction, under
that and the various names of workhouse and bridewell ",
although some of the incidents of the confinement are
identical, "has not the same character of infamy attached
to it." There is thus no basis for the contention that sentence to hard labor as an incident of confinement necessarily renders a punishment infamous, or that commitment to a workhouse at hard labor can be made only upon
indictment by a grand jury. This court did not hold in
Wong Wing v. United States, nor has it, heretofore, ever
decided or stated, that commitment- to a workhouse at
hard labor is an infamous punishment. The confinement
in the Wong Wing Case was in an institution used as a
1H. E. Barnes, Historical OrigiA of Penal Institutions, XII Journal
of Criminal Law and Criminology, 35, 37; F. H. Wines, Punishment
and Reformation (1919 ed.), c. VI; Philip Klein, Prison Methods in
New York, c. VIII.

UNITED SHOE MACH. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
433.

451

Syllabus.

state prison or penitentiary and the expression in the
opinion concerning imprisonment at hard labor must be
understood as referring to such.
But even if imprisonment at hard labor elsewhere than
in a penitentiary had, in the past, been deemed an infamous punishment, it would not follow that confinement,
or rather service, at a workhouse like Occoquan, under
the conditions now prevailing should be deemed so. As
stated in Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 427, and in
Mackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348, 351: "What punishments shall be considered as infamous may be affected
by the changes of public opinion from one age to another."
Such changes may result from change in the conditions in
which, or in the purpose for which, a punishment is prescribed. The Constitution contains no reference to hard
labor. The prohibition contained in the Fifth Amendment refers to infamous crimes-a term obviously inviting
interpretation in harmony with conditions and opinion
prevailing from time to time. And today commitment to
Occoquan for a short term for non-support of minor children is certainly not an infamous punishment.
UNITED SHOE MACHINERY CORPORATIQN ET
AL. v. UNITED STATES:
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 119. Argued March 7, 8, 9, 1921; restored to docket for reargument June 6, 1921; reargued January 17, 18, 1922.-Decided April
17, 1922.
1. A presumption of correctness attends the findings of fact made by
the trial judge in an equity case after reading the evidence. P.
455.
2. In a smt under the Clayton Act to enjoin the use of restrictive
covenants in leases of machinery, inserted for the benefit of the
lessor, the lessees are held not indispensable parties. P. 456.
9544*-23-----32

