STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
Syllabus.

STAFFORD ET AL., COPARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS AS STAFFORD BROTHERS, ET AL. v. WALLACE, SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE, ET AL.
BURTON ET AL. v. CLYNE, UNITED STATES DISTRICT ATTORNEY FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 687, 691.

Argued March 20, 21, 1922.-Decided May 1, 1922.

1. Under the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921, c. 64, § 316, 42
Stat. 159, an order of -the District Court refusing a temporary
injunction in a suit to enjoin the enforcement of orders made under
the act by the Secretary of Agriculture, is appealable directly to
this court. P. 512.
2. It is for Congress to decide from its general information and from
the special evidence brought before it, the nature of evils, present
or threatening, and to enact such legislation within its power as it
deems necessary to remedy them; and this environment should be,
considered by the courts in interpreting the scope and effect of the
act in order to determine its validity. P. 513.
3. Commerce among the States is not a techical legal conception but
a practical one, drawn from the course of business. P. 518. Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U." . 375.
4. Streams of commerce among the States are under the national
protection and regulation, including subordinate activities and
facilities which are essential to such movements -though not of interstate character when viewed 'apart from them. P. 519.
5. Such a current of interstate commerce is found in the uninterrupted movement of livestock from the-West and Southwest into
the great stockyards at Chicago and elsewhere, where it is sold by
the consignee commission merchants to packers and livestock dealers at the- stockyards, and in the movement thence into other
States of the meat and other products of the animals slaughtered
at the packing establishments and the live animals which are resold
at the yards by the dealers for further feeding and fattening.
P. 514.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

;2t8 U. S.

6. The commission merchants who receive the livestock as consignees
of the shippers and sell it to the packers and dealers at the stockyards, and the dealers in reelling there to stock farmers and
feeders, are essential factors in this interstate movement; their
sales, though local transactions in that they create a local change
of title,. do not interrupt the current but, on the contrary, are
indispensable to its continuity. P. 516.
7. For the purpose of protecting this interstate commerce from the
power of the packers to fix arbitrary, prices for livestock and meat,
through their monopoly, aided, as was thought, by their control of
stockyards, and from exorbitant charges, duplication of commis
sions, and other deceptive practices in respect of prices, in the
passage of livestock through the stockyards, made possible by collusion" bet een the stockyards management and the commission
men, on the one hand, and the packers and dealers on the other,
Congress, in connection with regulation of the packers, had power
to regulate business done in the stockyards. P. 514.
8. A reasonable fear upon the part of Congress that acts, usually
lawful and affecting only intrastate commerce when occurring
alone, will probably and more or less constantly be performed in
aid of conspiracies against interstate commerce or constitute a
direct and undue burden upon it, serves to bring such acts within
the current of interstate commerce for federal restraint. P. 520.
9. It is primarily for Congress to consider and decide the danger
of such acts or practices, and to meet it, and it is not for this
court to substitute its judgment in such a matter unless the relation
of the subject to interstate commerce and it3 effect upon it are
clearly nonexistent. P. 521.
10. The Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921, which seeks to regulate
the business of the packers done in interstate commerce and incidentally provides for' supervision and control of facilities furnished
in stockyards in connection with the' eceipi, purchase and sale of
livestock and its care, shipment, weighing or handling in interstate
commerce, Irequiring commissiorr men and dealers as well as stockyard owners to register with the Secretary of Agriculture, and
prescribing that all rates and charges for services and facilities
i the yards and all practices concerning the livestock passing
ihrough thein shall be just, reasonable, nondiscriminatory and nondeceptive, and that a schedule of such charges be kept open for
public inspection, only to be changed upon notice to the Secretary
of Agriculture, and empo;,ering him to inquire into and regulate
such charges and practices, to prescribe the forms of accounts and
make rules and regulations for the enforcement of the act, etc.-is

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Statement of the Case.

not objectionable from the standpoint of the commission men and
dealers upon the ground that their business is merely intrastate,
but is within the power of Congress under the Commerce Clause.
P. 513.
Affirmed.

THEsu cases involve the constitutionality "'of the
"Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921," approved August
15, 1921, c. 64, 42 Stat. 159, so far as that act provides
for the supervision by federal authority of the business
of the commission men and of the live-stock dealers in
the great stockyards of the country. They are appeals
from the orders of the District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois refusing to grant interlocutory injunctions as prayed. The bills sought to restrain enforcement of orders of the Secretary of Agriculture in carrying out the act, directed against the appellants in No: 687,
as the commission men in the Union Stockyards of
Chicago, and against the appellants in No. 691, as dealers
in the same yards. The ground upon which the prayers
for relief are based is that the Secretary's orders are void,
because made under an act invalid as to each class of
appellants. The bill in No. 687 makes defendants the
Secretary of Agriculture and the United States Attorney
for the Northern District of Illinois, averring that the
latter is charged with the duty of enforcing the severe
penalties imposed by the act for failure to comply with
orders of the Secretary thereunder. The bill in No. 691
makes the United States Attorney the only defendant,
with the same averment.
The two bills in substance allege that the Union Stock
Yards & Transit Company was incorporated by the State
of Illinois in 1865, and given authority to acquire, construct and maintain enclosures, structures and railway
lines for the reception, safekeeping, feeding, watering and
for weighing, delivery and transfer of cattle and live stock
of every description, and to carry on a public live-stock

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U.S.

market with all the necessary appurtenances and facilities; that it is the largest stockyards in the world, and in
1920 handled fifteen million head of live stock of all
descriptions, including cattle, calves, hogs and sheep,
shipped mainly from outside the State of Illinois- that the
live stock are loaded at the point of origin and shipped
under a shipping contract which is a straight bill of
lading consigning them to the commission merchants at
the yard, that on arrival the live stock are at once driven
from the cars by the commission merchant, who is the
consignee, to the pens assigned by the stockyards company to.such merchant for his use, that they are, then in
the exclusive possession of the commission merchant,
are watered and fed by the stockyards company at his
request, that with the delivery to the commission merchant, the transportation is completely ended, that all
the live stock consigned to commission merchants aresold by them for a commission or brokerage, and not on
their own accounf, that they are sold at the stockyards and
nowhere else; that the conunissions are fixed at an established rate per head, that the commission men remit to the
owners and shippers the proceeds of sale, less their commission and the freight and yard charges paid by them;
that the live stock are sold (1) to purchasers who buy
the same for slaughter at packing h6uses, located at the
stockyards or adjacent thereto; (2) to purchasers who
buy to ship to packing houses outside the State of Illinois
for slaughter; (3) to purchasers who buy to feed and fatten the same; and (4) to dealers or traders; that about
one-third of all the live stock received are sold to the
dealers; that not until after the delivery of the live stock
to the.,commission merchants and the transportation has
completely ceased, does the business of the dealers begin;
that they do mnot buy or sell on commission, but buy and
sell for cash exclusively for their own profit, that the
greater part of live stock received by commission men at

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
Statement of the Case.

495.

the yards are in carload or .trainload lots and a substantial part are not graded or conditioned to meet the specific
requirements of the buyers, that the dealers after purchase put the live stock in pens assigned to them by the
stockyards owner and do the sorting and classification,
that the dealers buy in open market in competition with
each other, that they pay the expense of the custody,
care and feeding and watering the stock while. they hold
them, that they sell promptly and have nothing to do
with the shipmerit of the live stock they sell from the
yards to points outside.
In the bill in No. 691, the appellants aver that they are
members of the Chicago Live Stock Exchange and of the
National Live Stock Exchange, the members of which
are dealers in all the stockyards of the country numbering
2,000, and that they bring their bill for all of them who
may choose to join and take the benefit of the litigation.
The chairman of the Committee of Agriculture in reporting to the House of Representatives the bill, which
became the act here in question (May 18, 1921,-67th
Cong.,'lst sess., Report No. 77, to accompany H. R.
6320), referred to the testimony printed in the House
Committee Hearings of the 66th Congress, 2nd session,
Committee on Agriculture, vol. 220-2 and 220-3, as furnishing the contemporaneous-history and information of
the evils to be remedied- upon which the bill was framed.
It appeared from the data before the Committee that
for more than two decades it had been charged that the
five great packing establishments of Swift, Armour, Cudahy, Wilson and Morris, called the "Big Five ", were engaged in a conspiracy in violation of the Anti-Trust Law;
to control the business of the purchase of the live stock,
their preparation for use in meat products, and the distribution and sale thereof in this country and abroad. In
1903, a bill in.equity was filed by 'the United States to
enjoin further conduct of this alleged conspiracy, as, a
9544*-23-35

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

violation of the Anti-Trust Law, and an injunction issued.
United States v. Swift & Co., 122 Fed. 529. The case
was taken on appeal to this court, which sustained the
injunction. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
In 1912, these same defendants or their successors in business were indicted and tried for such violation of the
Anti-Trust Law, and acquitted. (See House Committee
Hearings before Committee on Agriculture, 1920, vol. 2202. Subject, Meat Packer Legislation, p. 718.) It further
appeared that on February 7, 1917, the President directed
the Federal Trade Commission to investigate and report
the facts relating-to this .industry and kindred subjects.
The Commission reported that the "Big Five" packing
firms had complete control of the trade from the producer
to the consumer, had eliminated competition, and that
one of the essential means by which this was made possible was their ownership of a controlling part of the stock
in the stockyards companies of the country. The Commission stated its conclusions as follows:
The big packers' control of these markets is much
-greater than these statistics indicate. In the first place,
6ey are the largest and in some cases practically the only
buyers at these various markets and as such hold a whip
hand over the commission men who act as the intermediaries in the sale of live stock.
"The packers' power is increased by the fact that they
control all the facilities through which live stock is sold to
themselves. Control of stockyards comprehends control
of live stock exchange buildings where commission men
have their offices; control of assignment of pens to commission men; control of banks and cattle-loan companies;
control of terminal and switching facilities; control of
yardage services and charges; control of weighing facilities; control of the disposition of dead animalh and other
profitable yard monopolies; and in most cases control of
all packing house and other business sites Packer owned

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

501

Statement of'the Case.

stockyards give these'interests access to records containing confidential shipping information which is used to
the disadvantage of shippers who have attempted to forward their live stock to a second -market. " Summary of
Report of the Federal Trade Commission on Meat Packing Industry, July 3, 1918.
Following the report of the Federal Trade Commission,
and before the passage of this act, a bill in equity for injunction was filed in 1920, in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, in which, on February 27th of that
year, was entered a decree against the same "Big Five"
packers consented to by them, with the saving clause that
it should not be considered as an admission that they had
been guilty of violations of law. The decree enjoined the
packers from doing many acts in pursuance of a combination to monopolize the purchase and control the price of
live stock, and the sale and distribution of meat products
and of many by-prodhcts in preparation of meats and in
unrelated lines, not here relevant, and from continuing to
own or control, directly or indirectly, any interest in any
public stockyard market company in the United States,
or in any stockyard market journal, or in any stockyard
terminal railroad or in any publio cold storage warehouse.
(House Committee Hearings, Committee on Agriculture,
1920, vol. 220-2, p. 720, "Meat Packer Legislation."),
It appears from these committee hearings that the
dealers do not buy fat cattle generally or largely compete
with packers in such purchases. They buy either the thin
cattle 'known as "stockers and feeders ", which they dispose of to farmers and stockfeeders, to be taken to the
country for farm use and fattening, or they buy mixed lots
and cull out of them the fat cattle. These they dispose of
to packers either directly or through commission men.
The proportion of all the hogs passing through the yards
in 1919 handled by these traders, speculators or scalpers,
as they are indifferently called, was 30 per cent: Of all

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

the butcher cattle they handled 20 per cent., of the beef
cattle 10 per cent., and of the "stockers and feeders" 80
per cent. At Kansas City,-this last figure was higher,
reaching 95 per cent. (Committee Hearings, p. 2140.)
It was conceded that of all the live stock coming into
the Chicago stockyards and going out, only a small percentage, less than 10 per cent., is shipped from or to
Illinois.
The complaints of the shippers of live stock against the
charges and practices,. working to their prejudice, in the
conduct of the stockyards, the commission men and the
dealers, were: First, suppression of competition in purchases through agreement by which one packer would buy
a car load or train load of cattle and turn over half of it to
the only other packer buying in the local market. Second,
"wiring on." A shipper would send a car load or train
load 'of stock to one stockyard. Finding the market unsatisfactory, he would ship them further east. The packers' agents were promptly advised at the second stockyards
and, controlling the price there, they made it the same as
at the first stockyards, though the shipper had paid the
freight and had to stand the "shrink" of the cattle from
the journey. Third, the charges in the stockyards for
hay and other facilities were excessive. Fourth, the duplication of commissions through the collusion of the commission men and the dealers, by which commission men
would sell at a lower price to dealers than to outside buyers and drive the latter to buying from dealers through
commission'men, forcing two commissions. Fifth, the
monopoly conferred by the stockyards owner on' a company in which packers were largely interested, of buying
at a fixed price of $5.00 a head all dead cattle for rendering
purposes, when they were worth more. Sixth, the frequency with which commission men reported to shippers
that live stock had been. crippled and had to be sold in that
condition .t a lower price arousing suspicion as to the fact

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

503

Argument for Appellants in No. 687.

and if it was a fact; as to the cause of the crippling.
(Pages 22, 23, 24, also 466, et seq., 1086; 2125, 2244,
et seq. Committee of House Hearings-Committee on
Agriculture, vols. 220-2 and 220-3, 66th Cong., 2nd sess.)
Mr. Elwood G. Godman, with whom Mr. Edwin W.
Sims, Mr. Albert G. Welch and Mr. FredericR. De Young
were on the brief, for appellants, in No. 687.
The individual appellants are not engaged in interstate
commerce. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578;
Blumenstock Bros. Advertising Agency v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436.
The performance of the service of buying or selling livestock for the account of others in an open, public, competitive, market, upon a fixed per-head or per-car charge
for such service, cannot be said to be a transaction in
interstate commerce but is a thing separate and distinct.
The character of service rendered, or the commission
charged, is in no way affected by the origin of the shipment, whether within or without the State of Illinois.
When the livestock reaches the possession of appellants
the transportation has ceased, and it does not begin again,
if ever, until after the services of appellants have been
fully performed and their possession parted with.
The business of appellants is as distinctly separate from
interstate commerce in livestock as is that of a broker who
negotiates sales of merchandise between parties resident
in different States but who has no control over the shipment of the commodities dealt in. Ficklen v. Shelby
County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1; Williams v. Fears,
179 U. S.270; Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S.
405.
The business of appellants is not like that of solicitors
who negotiate sales of goods in one State to be shipped
from another State, because when the livestock come into
the possession of appellants, the transportation has

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants in No. 687.

258 U. S.

ceased. The livestock are not shipped by the owners for
delivery to any definite purchaser, nor is their shipment in
interstate commerce induced by the appellants. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21.
Paraphrasing the language in the Knight Case: If the
appellants are engaged in interstate commerce merely because they perform a service concerning livestock which
may have been, or perhaps may thereafter become, subjecta of interstate commerce, are also the men wlo unload
the hay and corn into the troughs in the cattle pens engaged in interstate commerce, and likewise the man who
opens the gates leading into the various alleys and pens
to permit the animals to pass from one part of the stockyards to another? The same question may be asked of
the men who pour water into drinking troughs and who
look after te sanitary conditions of the pens, as well as
those who drive the cattle from one pen to another; and
if these questions are to be answered in the affirmative,
the query of Justice Brewer comes naturally to mind,
"Where will the limit be?" The line of distinction heretfofre prevailing between state and national control over
commerce will be obliterated. Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 502; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247
U. S. 251.
The power to regulate commerce among the States has
never been construed to give authority to Congress to
fix the prices at which commodities shipped in interstate
commerce could be bought or sold. If such power were
exerted, it would deny to the citizens of the various
States the right freely to bargain and negotiate concerning the price of the fruits of their labors. It would enable
the legislative department to destroy commerce, which
would- be contrary to the constitutional provision which
.confers power to regulate. Assuming that the owner of
cattle shipped from some other State to the Union Stock
Yards at Chicago for sale is engaged in interstate com-

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

505

Argument for Appellants in No. 687.

merce, does it follow that Congress has the constitutional
power to legislate as to the price at which his livestock
must be sold? And if not, how can the power be claimed
for Congress, as it has done in the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, to fix the price which should be paid by
such slipper for services performed for him in selling his
livestock by a livestock commission merchant whom he
employs at the Chicago market for that purpose?' And
again, how can the power be claimed for Congress to fix
the price which the commission man shall charge for his
services in respect to livestock which he purchases or
sells upon the market? To concede such power is to
deprive the appellants of any individual right to appraise
or value their own services. Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197, 361; In re Greene, 52 Fed.
104. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, distinguished.
The Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, does not deal
with questions of combination or conspiracy in restraint
of interstate commerce but is intended to regulate and
control those at which it is aimed in the conduct of interstate commerce by them. Therefore, only those who are
actually themselves engaged in 'interstate commerce in
livestock and the other products named in the title of the
act come within its regulatory provisions. Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375) distinguished.
The act violates the Fifth Amendment because of the
arbitrary classification of stockyards subject to the act.
Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Willoughby on the Constitution, p. 874; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co.,
183 U. S. 79.
The act violates the Fourth and Fifth Amendments in
authorizing unreasonable searches and seizures of appellants' papers and in compelling appellants to furnish evidence against themselves. Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616; Veeder v. United States, 252 Fed. 414, 418;
Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 237 U. S. 434,
445.

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants in No. 691.

258 U. S.

No immunity is conferred by the act, and, therefore,
evidence secured by the Secretary and his subordinates
under the statute and regulations of the Secretary might
be used against the commission man as a basis for the
recovery, of the penalties ir'posed by the act or for a prosecution to enforce its criminal provisions. Such a search,
even without seizure, would subject the commission man
to the danger of prosecution and would in effect compel
him to give evidence against himself if the statute applies
to him, and is 6therwise enforcible, contrary to the provisions of the Fifth Amendment. Hale v. Henkel, 201
U. S. 43, 71.
Mr. Levy Mayer, for appellants, in No. 691.
The decision below rests upon the syllogism that "the
stockyards themselves are instrumentalities of interstate
commerce" and the dealers in livestock at the yards are
"engaged in or participating in that commerce within the
stockyards;" ergo, the dealers are engaged in interstate
commerce and subject to the regulatory power. of Congress. We submit that both premise and conclusion are
wrong. The dealers, are not engaged in "commerce
within the stockyards."
We do not read the decisions in United States v. UnionStock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286, and Covington StockYards Co.. v. Keith, 139' U. S.128, as holding' that stockyards in all their divisions and ramifications are "instrumentalities of interstate commerce." Very many services that the stockyards companies render at their yards
are distinct from and not at all such as fall within the
Commerce Clause. See Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Knight, 192 U. S.21.
In.Dahnke-WalkerMilling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S.
282, this court quotes approvingly from Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U.. S. 1, thud: "Buying and selling and the trahsportation incidental thereto constitute commercd." In

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Argument for Appellants in No. 691.

the present case the undisputed facts show that transportation is neither directly, indirectly nor incidentally
connected with the buying or selling of livestock by the
dealers.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, is not
applicable. The court below picks out from the body of
the opinion a sentence which is descriptive- of only one
link in the entire scheme which was condemned b- Wis
court. Furthermore, this court did not modify the doctrine established in Hopkins. v. United States, 171 U. S.
578, or in Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604. See
196 U. S. 397. Blumenstock Bros. Advertising Agency v.
Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436.
As appellants are not engaged in interstate commerce,
those parts of the Stock Yards Act which seek to control
and regulate their business are unconstitutional. In re
Greene, 52 Fed. 104, 113; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247
U. S. 251; Blumenstock Bros. Advertising Agency v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436; Ware & Leland -v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405; United States Fidelity &
GuarantyCo:v. Kentucky, 231 U. S. 394; Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95; Dancigerv. Cooley, 248 U. S. 319;
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. PaulRy. Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S.
334; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Hopkins v.
United States, 171 U. S. 578; Winslow v. Federal Trade
Commission, 277 Fed. 206; Ward Baking Co. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 264 Fed. 330:
To paraphrase the language of this court in Hooper v.
California,155 U. S. 648, 655: If Congress can apply the
power to regulate interstate commerce to all the incidents
connected with that commerce, that power will soon embrace the entire sphere of mercantile activity in any way
connected with trade between the States, and will soon
exclude state control over contracts and commerce that
are purely domestic in their nature.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

258 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Blackburn
Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Mr. Bayard T. Hainerwere on the brief, for appellees.
The power of Congress or its appropriate agencies to
prescribe, regulate or control all instrumentalities, or
parts thereof, by which interstate commerce is carried on
or conducted is now thoroughly established.
That the Union Stock Yard & Transit Company of
Chicago, which furnishes terminal facilities at the greatest
livestock market in the world, is now embraced within,
and constitutes a part of, those instrumentalities of interstate commerce as fully and completely as if they were an
integral part of a great railroad system, and should be
reglated as such, is beyond question. United States v.
Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286, 303, 306. See also
Chicago Live Stock Exchange v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
52 I. C. C. 209, 224; Chicago Live Stock Exchange v. A.
T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 58 I. C. C. 164, 166, 168; Live Stock
Loading and Unloading Charges, 61 I. C. C. 223; Union
Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 169 Fed. 406; United
States v. Union Stock Yards Co., 161 Fed. 919; United
States y. Sioux City Stock Yards, 162 Fed. 556; Covington Stbck Yards v. Keith, 139 Fed. 128; Walker v.
Keenan, 73 Fed. 755.
The, commission merchants and traders or dealers operating in the Union Stock Yards are so completely identified with and so directly a part of the current of interstate
commerce of livestock flowing through those yards as
clearly to bring them and their transactions within the
power of Congress to regulate under the Packers and
Stockyards Act.
That act is a combination of the principles embraced
within both the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended
and the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. By a single statute
Congress embraced both the transportation of livestock
and the crmmercial transactions therein in interstate com-

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Argument for Appellees..

merce, includifig the meat-packing industries--in all of
their multitudinous aspects. Congress also embraced
within the act the legal principles announced in many
opinions of this court. See, e. g.. Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375.
Congress, having legislated on a vast and vital-subject
and all of its ramifications as an entirety, the judicial review should go on lines no less extensive. See iUnited
States v. Brigantine William (Dist. Ct., Mass., 1808), 2
Hall's Law Journal, 255, 271. The present case is not one
to be examined, as opposing counsel would argue, through
the small end of a telescope.
The question here is not whether the commission merchants and dealers should be included within the act by
judicial interpretation, as in Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578, but whether Congress had the power to
designate them and their transactions as part of the "current of commerce" and as such within the act. Even in
the absence of such specific designation, they might well
be included, for they form as much a part of the "current
of commerce" as the railroads or the stockyards company.
Swift & Co. v. United States, supra,distinguishing Hopkins v. United States, supra, and Anderson v. United
States, 171 U. S. 604.
Hopkins v. United States itself announced the principle
on which the present legislation rests, when the court said
(p. 597) Ihat the ter Mh"interstate commerce," which is
one of "very large significance," comprehends "intercourse for the purposes of trade in any and all its forms,
including transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of
commodities between the citizens of different States, and
the power to regulate it embraces all the instruments by
which such commerce may be conducted. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
691; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196;
Hooper v. California,'155 U. S. 648, 653; United States v.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

258 U. S.

Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1." See also Chicago Board of
Trade v. United States, 246 U. S.231.
The shipper is a consignor of interstate commerce, who
deliveis to an interstate carrier livestock consigned to a
consignee of interstate commerce; and during the entire
time the livestock are in the stockyards they are in the
custody of the Union Stock Yard & Transit Company,
also an. interstate carrier, which unloads, feeds, waters,
and beds them in its chutes, pens and other facilities.
The latter company deals with the railroads and the
commission merchant who represents the consignor. If
the relation of the Stock Yard Company and the consignor is that of shipper and carrier in interstate commerce, how may the commission merchant who conducts
the sale and makes the payments to these common carriers of all their charges be eliminated? The commission
merchants pay the carriers the full charges for freight,
yardage, feed and service, and if the carriers should refund
to certain merchants parts of these rates, could the charge
of discrimination or rebating be defended on the ground
that so far as the commission merchants were concerned
the transactions were not in interstate commerce? It is
useful to bear in mind that the entire "current of commerce " flows through the Union Stock Yards and that
all transactions in connection therewith are conducted
within the enclosure of the Union Stock Yards. That
is likewise true of the purchases and sales of the traders.
While this "current of commerce " is swirling around
within the 550 acres of enclosure of the Union Stock
Yards, it is the judgment of Congress that every person
and transaction which constitutes a continuing part of
that current is[ subject to the Packers and Stockyards
Act. These appellants are in much the same position
as if consignor, consignee, commission merchants and
traders all -got aboard the trains and traveled with the
livestock, say from Denver to Chicago, and traded therein

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Argument for Appellees.

en route. The recent decisions of the court abundantly
sustai' the power of Congress so to regulate such commerce. United States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, 203;
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 265; United,
Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 277; Dahnke-Walker
Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50.
In exempting from its provisions stockyards of which
the area normally available for handling livestock is.
less
than 20,000 square feet, the act does not make an arbitrary classification in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332.
The provisions of the act requiring ' commission merchant who falls within the classification of market agency
to register by giving to the Secretary of Agriculture his
name and the character of his business, and the kind of
stockyard service, if any, which he furnishes at such
stockyard (§ 303); file a schedule of rates and charges
(§ 306); and keep such accounts; etc., as fully.and correctly disclose all transactions involved in his- business
(§ 401), do not violate the Fourth Amendment, prohibiting unreasonable searches and'seizures.
The form of the legislation is taken from the Interstate
Commerce Act. Section 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce (24 Stat. 379, 386; 34 Stat. 584, 593; 41 Stat. 456,
493) contains provisions for reports far more searching
than any contained in this act. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 24 U. S.194.
The Packers"and Stockyards Act provides that'all rates,
charges, and services shall be just, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory, and the provisions above referred to are
merely supervisory or regulatory powers which have precedent in the Interstate Commerce Acts.
At this point it is noteworthy that Congress adopted for
and wrapped -around the Packers and Stockyards Act like.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

a cloak the same court procedure for the enforcement or
annulment of the orders of the Secretary as obtains for
the enforcement or annulment of the orders of the Commission (§§ 315, 316, see also House Committee Report,
pp. 4-11).
Moreover, the court will not attempt to pass on the
reasonableness of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, or to define his powers by a construction of the act, in advance of a concrete case raising a
specific issue, as held in InterstateCommerce Commission
v. Goodrich Transit Co., supra, and Texas v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 258 U. S. 158.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIc E TAFr, after making the foregoing
statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

Section 316 of the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921
makes applicable to suits for injunction against the orders
of the Secretary of Agriculture, the same procedure, original and appellate, provided, in the Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, 220, for suits for injunction
against the orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The latter act gives'a right to a direct appeal to this
court from the granting or refusing an interlocutory injunction. Hence the appeals herein are properly prosecuted.
In each bill the averments are sufficient, if. the act be
invalid, to show equitable grounds for 'injunction in the
severe penalties incurred for failure to comply with the
act before opportunity can be given to test its validity.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
We have framed the statement of the case, not for the
purpose of deciding the issues of fact mooted -between the
packers tnd their accusers before the Federal Trade Commission or the Coimmittees on Agriculture in Congress,
but only to enable us to consider and discuss the act whose
vilidity is here in question in the light of the environ-

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Opinion of the Court.

ment in which Congress passed it. It was for Congress
to decide, from its general informatioii and from such
special evidence as was brought before it, the nature of
the evils actually present or threatening, and to take such
steps by legislation within its power as it deemed proper
to remedy them. It is helpful for us in interpreting the
effect and scope of the act in order to determine its validity to know the conditions under which Congress acted..
Chicago Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231,
238; Danciger v. Cooley, 248 15. S. 319, 322.
The Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 seeks to
regulate the business of the packers done in interstate
commerce and "forbids them to engage in unfair, discriminatory or deceptive practices in such commerce, or
to subject any person to unreasonable prejudice therein;
or to do any of a number of acts to control prices or establish a monopoly in the business. It cbnstitutes the Secretary of Agriculture a tribunal to hear complaints and
make findings thereon, and to order the packers to cease
any forbidden practice. An appeal is given to the Circuit
'Court of Appeals from these findings and orders. They
are to be enforced by the District Court by penalty if not
appealed from and if disobeyed. Title III concerns the
stockyards and provides for the supervision and control of
the facilities furnished therein in connection with the receipt, purchase, sale on commission basis or otherwise, of
live. stock and-its care, shipment, weighing or handling in
interstate commerce. A stockyards is defined to be a place
conducted for profit as a public market, with pens in
which live stock are received and kept for sale or shipment in interstate commerce. Yards with a superficial
area of less than 20,000 square feet are not within the act.
Stockyard owners, commissiort men and dealers are recognized and defined and the two latter are required to register. The act requires that all rates and charges for services and facilities in the stockyards and all practices in

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

connection with the live stock passing through the yards
shall be just, reasonable, non-discriminatory and non-deceptive, and that a schedule of such charges shall be kept
open for public inspection and only be changed after ten
days' notice to the Secretary of Agriculture, who is made
a tribunal to inquire as to the justice, reasonableness and
non-discriminatory or non-deceptive character of every
charge and practice, and to order that it cease, if found to
offend, with the same provisions for appeal and enforcement in court as in the case of offending packers. The
Secretary is given power to make rules and regulations to
carry out the provisions, to fix" rates or a minimum or
maximum thereof and to prescribe how every packer,
stockyard owner, commission man and dealer shall keep
accounts.
The bills aver that the Secretary has given the notice
which requires appellants to register and has announced
proposed rules and regulations, prescribing the form of
rate schedules, the required reports, including daily accounts of receipts, sales and shipments, forbidding misleading reports to depress or enhance prices, prescribing
proper feed and care of live stock, and forbidding a commission man to sell live stock to another in whose business
he is interested, without disclosing such interest to his
principal.
The object to. be secured by the act is the free and unburdened flow of live stock from the ranges and farms of
the West and the Southwest through the great stockyards and slaughtering centers on the borders of that
region, and thence in the form of meat products to the
consuming cities of the country in the Middle West and
East, or, still as live stock, to the feeding places and fattening farms in the Middle West or East for further
preparation for the market.
. The chief evil feared is the monopoly of the packers,
enabling them unduly and arbitrarily to lower prices to

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

495.

the shipper who sells, and unduly and arbitrarily to increase the' price to the consumer who buys. Congress
thought that the power to maintain this monopoly was
aided by control of the stockyards. Another evil which
it sought to provide against by the act, was exorbitant
charges, duplication of commissions, deceptive practices
in respect of prices, in the passage -of the live stock
through the stockyards, 'all made possible by collusion between the stockyards management and the commission
men, on the one hand, and the packers and dealers on the
other. Expenses incurred in the passage through the
stockyards necessarily reduce the price received by the
shipper, and increase the price to be paid by the consumer. If they be exorbitant or unreasonable, they are
an undue burden on the commerce which the stockyards
are intended to facilitate. Any unjust or deceptive practice or combination that unduly and directly enhances
them is an unjust obstruction to that commerce. The
shipper whose live stock are being cared for and sold in
the stockyards market is ordinarily not present at the
sale, but is far away in the West. He is wholly dependent
on the commission men. The packers and their agents
and the dealers -who are the buyers, are at the elbow of
the commission men, and their relations are constant and
close. The control that the packers have had in the
.stockyards by reason of ownership and constant use, the
relation of landlord and tenant between the stockyards
owner, on the one hand, and the commission men and
the dealers, on the other, the power of assignment of pens
and other facilities by that owner to commission men and
dealers, all create a situation full of opportunity and
temptation to the prejudice of the absent shipper and
owner in the neglect of the dve stock, in the mala fides
of the sale, in the exorbitant' prices obtained, in the unreasonableness of the charges for services rendered.
The stockyards are not a place of rest or final destination. Thousands of head of live stock arrive daily by
D544*-23-36

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

carload and trainload lots, and must be promptly sold
and disposed of and moved out to give place to the constantly flowing traffic that presses behind. The stockyards are but a throat through which the current flows,
and the transactions which occur therein are only incident to this current from the West to the East, and from
one State to another. Such transactions can not be separated from the movement to which they contribute and
necessarily take on its character. The commission men
are essential in making the sales without which the flow
of the current would be obstructed, and this, whether
they are made to packers or dealers. The dealers are essential to the sales to the stock farmers and feeders. The
sales are not in this aspect merely local transactions.
They create a local change of title, it is true, but they do
not stop the flow; they merely change the private interests in the subject of the current, not interfering with,
but, on the contrary, being indispensable to its continuity. The origin of the live stock is in the West, its ultimate destination known to, and intended by, all engaged
in the business is in the Middle West and East either as
meat products or stock for feeding and fattening. This is
the definite and well-understood course of business. The
stockyards and the sales are necessary factors in the
middle of this current of commerce.
The act, therefore, treats the various stockyards of the
country as great national public utilities to promote the
flow of commerce from the ranges and farms of the West
to the consumers in the East. It assumes that they conduct a business affe'cted by a public use of a national character and subject to national regulation. That it is a
business within the power of regulation by legislative action needs no discussion. That has been settled since the
case of Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113. Nor is there any
doubt that in the receipt of live stock by rail and in their
delivery by rail the stockyards are an interstate commerce

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Opinion of the Court.

agency. United States v. Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S.
286. The only question here is whether the business done
in the stockyards between the receipt of the live stock in
the yards and the shipment of them therefrom is a part of
interstate commerce, or is so associated with it as to brine
it within the power of national regulation. A similar
question has been before this court and had great consideration in Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
The judgment in that case gives a clear and comprehensive exposition which leaves to us in this case little but
the obvious application of the principles there declared.
The Swift Case presented to this court the sufficiency of
a bill in equity brought against substantially the same
packing firms as those against whom this legislation is
chiefly directed, charging them as a combination of a domi- .
nant proportion of the dealers in fresh meat throughout
the United States not to bid against each other in the live
stock markets of the different States, to bid up prices for
a few days in order to induce the cattle men to send their
stock to the stockyards, to fix prices at which they w6uld
sell, and to that end to restrict shipments of meat when
necessary, to establish a uniform credit to dealers, and to
keep a black list, to make uniform and improper charges
for cartage, and finally to get less than lawful rates from
the railroads to the exclusion of competitors, and all this
in a conspiracy and single connected scheme to monopolize the supply and distribution of fresh meats throughout the United States. In holding the bill good, this
court said (p. 396):
"The scheme as a whole seems to us to be within reach
of the law. The constituent elements, as we have stated
them, are enough to give to the scheme a body and,' for
all that we can say, to accomplish it. . . . It is suggested that the several acts charged are lawful and that
intent can make no difference. But they are bound to-

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

gether as parts of a single plan. The plan may make the
parts unlawful. Aikens v. Wisconsin, 196 U. S. 194, 206.
The statute gives this proceeding against combinations in
restraint of commerce among the States and against attempts to monopolize the same. Intent is almost essential to such a combination and is essential to such an attempt."
Again (pp. 396 and 397):
"Although the combination alleged embraces restraint
and monopoly of trade within a single State, its effect
upon commerce among the States is not accidental, secondary, remote or merely probable. . .
Here the
subject matter is sales and the very point of the combination is to restrain and monopolize commerce among the
States in respect of such sales."
Again (pp. 398 and 399), in answer to the objection
that what was charged did not constitute a case involving
commerce among the States, the court said:
"Commerce among the States is not a technical legal
conception, but a practical one, drawn from the course of
business. When cattle are sent for sale from a place in
one State, with the expectation that they will end their
transit, after purchase, in another, and when in effect they
do so, with only the interruption necessary to find a purchaser at the stock yards, and when this is a typical, constantly recurring course, the current thus existing is a
current of commerce among the States, and the purchase
of the cattle is a part and incident of such commerce.
What we say is true at least of such a purchase by residents in another State from that of the seller and of the
cattle."
The application of the commerce clause of the Constitution in the Swift Case was the result of the natural development of interstate commerce under modern conditions. It was the inevitable recognition of the great

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Opinion of the Court.

central fact that such streams of commerce from one part
of the country to another which are ever flowing are in
their very essence the commerce among the States and
with foreign nations which historically it was one of the
chief purposes of the Constitution to bring under national
protection and control. This court declined to defeat this
purpose in respect of such a stream and take it out of
complete national regulation by a nice and technical inquiry into the non-interstate character of some of its
necessary incidents and facilities when considered alone
and without reference to their association with the movement of which they were an essential but subordinate
part.
The principles of the'Swift Case have become a fixed
rule of this court in the construction and application of
the commerce clause. Its latest expression on the subject is found in Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., ante, 50.
In that case it was held, on the authority of the Swift
Case, that the delivery and sale of wheat by farmers to
local grain elevators in North Dakota'to be shipped to
Minneapolis, when practically all the wheat purchased by
such elevators was so shipped and the price was fixed by
that in the Minneapolis market less profit and freight,
constituted a course of business and determined the interstate character of the transaction. Accordingly a state
statute which sought to regulate the price and profit of
such sales and was found to interfere with the free flow
of interstate commerce, was declared invalid as a violation of the commerce clause. Similar confirmation of the
principle of the Swift Case is to be found in DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282; Eureka
Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265; United Fuel
Gas Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 277; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 113; United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 PJ. S.

-ReadingCo., 226 U. S. 324, 367, 368; Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108; and Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 301.
It is manifest that Congress framed the Packers and
Stockyards Act in keeping with the principles annouriced
and applied in the opinion in the Swift- Case. The recital
in § 2, par. b of Title I of the act quoted in the margin
leaves no doubt of this.' The act deals with the same current of business, and the same practical conception of interstate commerce.
Of course, what we are considering here is not a bill in
equity or an indictment charging conspiracy to obstruct
interstate commerce, but a law. The language of the law
shows that what Congress had ifi mind primarily was to
prevent such conspiracies by supervision of the agencies
which would be likely to be employed in it. If Congress
could provide for punishment or restraint of such conspiracies after their formation through the Anti-Trust
Law as in the Swift Case, certainly it may provide regulation to prevent their formation. The reasonable fear by
Congress that such acts, usually lawful and affecting only
intrastate commerce when considered alone, will probably
'The first title, § 2, paragraph b, provides that "for the purpose
of this Act . . . a transaction in respect to any article shall be
considered to be in commerce if such article is part of that current
of commerce usual in the live-stock and meat-packing industries,
whereby live stock [and its products] are sent from one State with
the expectation that they will end their transit, after purchase, in
another, including, in addition to cases within the above general description, all cases where purchase or sale is either for shipment to another State, or for slaughter of live stock within the State and the
shipment outside the State of the products resulting from such
slaughter. Articles normally in such current of commerce shall not
be considered out of such current through resort being had to any
means or device intended to remove transactions in respect thereto

from the provisions of this Act."

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

Opinion of the Court.

and more or less constantly be used in conspiracies against
interstate commerce or constitute a direct and undue
burden on it, expressed in this remedial legislation, serves
the same -purpose as the intent charged in the Swift indictment to bring acts of a similar character into the current of interstate commerce for federal restraint. Whatever amounts to more or less constant practice, and threatens to obstruct or unduly to burden the freedom of interstate commerce is within the regulatory power of Congress under the commerce clause, and it is primarily for
Congress to consider and decide the fact of the danger and
meet it. This court will certainly not substitute its judgment for that of Congress in such a matter unless the relation of the subject to interstate commerce and its effect
upon it are clearly non-existent.
In United States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, the validity
of an act of Congress punishing forgery and utterance of
bills of lading for fictitious shipments in interstate commerce was in question. It was contended that there was
and could be no commerce in a fraudulent and fictitious
bill of lading, and therefore that the power of Congress
could not embrace such pretended bill. In upholding the
act, this court, speaking through Chief Justice White,
answered the objection by saying:
"But this mistakenly assumes that the power of Congress is to be necessarily tested by the intrinsic existence
of commerce in the particular subject dealt with, instead
of by relation of that subject to commerce and its effect
upon it. -We say mistakenly assumes, because we think
it clear that if the proposition were sustained it would
destroy the power of Congress to regulate, as obviously
that power, if it is to exist, must include the authority to
deal with obstructions to interstate commerce (In re
Debs, 158 U. S. 564) and with a host of other acts which,
because of their relation to and influence upon interstate

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

commerce, come within the power of Congress to regulate,
although they are not interstate commerce in and of themselves."
The Transportation Act of 1920 presents a close analogy to this case. It authorizes supervision by the Interstate Commerce Commission of intrastate commerce
where it is so carried on as to work undue, unreasonable
advantage or preference in favor of persons or localities
in intrastate commerce, as against those in interstate commerce, or any undue, unjust or unreasonable discrimination against interstate commerce itself. Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
R. R. Co., 257 V. S. 563. That case followed the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 432, 433; Shreveport Case,
234 U. S. 342, 351; Illinois CentralR. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493; Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S.
612, 618; Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.20,
26, 27; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.1, 48,
51. The principle of these cases is thus clearly stated by
the court in the Minnesota Rate Cases (p. 399):
"The authority of Congress extends to every part of
interstate commerce, and to every instrumentality or
agency by which it is carried on; and the full control by
Congress of the subjects committed to its regulation is
not to be denied or thwarted by the commingling of interstate and intrastate operations. This is not to say that
the Nation may deal with the internal concerns of the
State, as such, but that the execution by Congress of its
constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce is
not limited by the fact that intrastate transactions may
have become so interwoven therewith that the effective
government of the former incidentally controls the latter.
This conclusion necessarily results from the supremacy
of the national power within its appointed sphere."

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

523

Opinion of the Court.

In § 311 of the act, quoted in the margin,' Congress
gives to the Secretary of Agriculture in respect to intrastate transactions that affect prejudicially interstate commerce under his protection, the same powers given to the
Interstate Commerce Commission in respect to intrastate
commerce which affects prejudicially interstate, railroad
commerce in paragraph 4, § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended in § 416 of the Transportation Act
of 1920. This was the paragraph and section which were
enforced in Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago,
Burlington& Quincy R. R. Co., supra, and the validity of
which was upheld by this court.
.Counsel for appellants cite cases to show that transactions like those of the confmission men or dealers here
are not interstate commerce or within the power of Congress to regulate. The chief of these are Hopkins v.
'Section 311 is as follows:
"Whenever in aniy investigation under the pix'visions of this title,
or in any investigation instituted by petition of the stockyard owner
or market agenqy concerned, which petition is hereby authorized to
be fied, the Secretary after full hearing finds that any rate, charge,

regulation, or practice of any stockyard owner or market agency, for
or in connection with the buying or selling on a commission basis or
otherwise, receiving, marketing, feeding, holding, delivery, shipment,
weighing, or handling, not in commerce, of live stock, causes any
undue or unreasonable advantage, prejudice, or preference as between persons or lochlities in intrastate commerce in live stock on

the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce mi"
live stock on
the other hand, or any undue, unjust, or unreasonable discrimination
,lgainst interstate or foreign commerce in live stock, which is hereby
forbidden and declared to be unlawful, the Secretary shall prescribe

the rate, charge, regulation, or practice thereafter to be observed,
in such manner as, in his judgment, will remove- such advantage,
preference, or discrimination. Such rates, charges, regulations, or
practices shall be observed while in effect by the stockyard owners
or market agencies parties.to such proceeding affected thereby, the
law of any- State or the decision or order of any State authority to
the contrary notwithstanding."

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

United States, 171 U. S. 578, and Anderson v. United
States, 171 U. S. 604. These cases were considered in the
Swift Case and disposed of by the court as follows (p.
397):
"So, again, the line is distinct between this case and
Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578. All that was
decided there was that the local business of commission
merchants was not commerce among the States, even if
what the brokers were employed to sell was an object of
such commerce. The brokers were not like the defendants before us, themselves the buyers and sellers. They
only furnished certain facilities for the sales. Therefore,
there again the effects of the combination of brokers upon
the commerce was only indirect and not within the apt.
Whether the case would have been different if the combination had resulted in exorbitant charges, was left open.
In Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S.604, the defendants were buyers and sellers at the stock yards, but their
agreement was merely not to employ brokers, or to recognize yard-traders, who were not members of their association. Any yard-trader could become a member of the
,association on complying with the conditions, and there
was said to be no feature of monopoly in the case. It
was held that the combination did not directly regulate
commerce between the States, and, being formed with a
different intent, was not within the act. The present
case is more like Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S.38."
It is clear from this that if the bill in the Swift Case
had averred that control of the stockyards and the commission men was one of the means used by the packers to
make arbitrary prices in their plan of monopolizing the
interstate commerce, the acts of the stockyards owners and
commission men would have been regarded as directly
affecting interstate commerce and within the Anti-Trust
Act. Congress has found an evil to be apprehended
and to be prevented by the act here in question, in the

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

"525

Opinion of the Court.

use and control of stockyards and the commission men
to promote a packers' monopoly of interstate commerce.
The act ,finds and imports this injurious direct effect of
such agencies upon interstate commerce just as the intent
of the conspiracy charged in the indictment in the Swift
Casetied together the parts of the scheme there attacked
and imported their direct effect upon interstate commerce.
Again, if the result of the combination of commission
men in the Hopkins Case had been to impose exorbitant
charges on the passage of the live stock through the stockyards from one State to another, the case would have
been different, as the court suggests. The effect on
interstate commerce in such a case would have been direct.
Similarly in the Anderson Case if the combination of
dealers had been directed to collusion with the commission men to secure sales at unduly low prices to the
dealers and to double commissions, or to practice any
other fraud or oppression calculated to decrease the price
received by the shipper and increase the price to the purchaser in the passage of live stock through the stockyards in interstate commerce, this would have been a
direct burden on such commerce and within the AntiTrust Act.
The other cases relied on by appellants are less relevant
to this discussion than the Anderson and Hopkins Cases.
Some of them are tax cases. As to them it is well to bear
in mind the words of the court in the Swift Case (p. 400):
"But we do not mean to imply that the rule which
marks the point at which state taxation or regulation becomes permissible necessarily is beyond the scope of interference by Congress in -cases where such interference is
deemed necessary for the protection of commerce among
the States."
Thus, take the case of Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504.
Bacon had purchased grain in transit from a western
State to the east. He exercised the power under his con-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

tract to stop the grain in Illinois and put it in a grain
elevator there. He intended to send it on to some other
State for sale. He might have changed his mind. He
did, however, after a time, send it out of the State. The
grain was taxed while it was in Illinois. The question was
whether it was immune from taxation because in transit
in interstate commerce. Following the cases of Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Pittsburgh & Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; Diamond Match
Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82, 93, 96; Kelley v. Rhoads,
188 U. S. 1, 5, 7; General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211;
and American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500,
it was held that property in a State which its owner
intends to transport to some other State, but which is
not in actual transit and in respect to the disposition of
which he may change his mind is not in interstate commerce just because of the intention of its owner, and
may, therefore, be taxed by the State where it is. The
court brought out the distinction between such cases and
this in the remark (p. 516):
"The question, it should be observed, is not with respect to the extent of the power of Congress to regulate
interstate commerce, but whether a particular exercise of
state power in view of its nature and operation must be
deemed to be in conflict with this paramount authority."
Moreover, it will be noted that even in tax cases where
the tax is directed against a commodity in an actual flowing and constant stream out of a State from which the
owner may withdraw part of it for use or sale in the State
before ii reaches the state border, we have held that a
tax on the flow is a burden on interstate commerce which
the State may not impose because such flow in interstate commerce is an established course of business.
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 277; Eureka

STAFFORD v. WALLACE.
495.

527

Opinion of the Court.

Pipe Line Co. vi Hallanan,257 U. S. 265. In the former,
the court summed up as follows:
"In short, .the great body of the gas starts for points
outside the State and goes to them. That the necessities
of business require a much smaller amount destined to
points within the State to be carried undistinguished in
the same pipes does not affect the, character of the major
transportation. Neither is the case as to the gas sold to
the three companies changed by the fact that the plaintiff, as owner of the gas, and the purchasers after they
receive it might change their minds before the gas leaves
the State and that the precise proportions between local
and outside deliveries may not have been fixed, although
they seem to have been. The typical and actual course
of events marks the carriage of the greater part as commerce among the States and theoretical possibilities may
be left out of account. There is no break, no period of
deliberation, but a steady flow ending as contemplated
from the beginning beyond the state line. Ohio R. R.
Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108. United
States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324, 367. Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 113."
The case of Blumenstock Brothers Advertising Agency
v. Curtis Publishing Co., .252 U. S. 436, is easily distinguished from the one at the bar. There it was merely held
that an attempt of a publisher to monopolize the business of publishing advertising matter in magazines resulting in refusal of such publisher to accept advertisements in his magazines was too remote in its relation to
the interstate commerce of circulating magazines. . The
court said:
"This case is wholly unlike InternationalTextbook Co.
v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, wherein there was a continuous interstate traffic in textbooks and apparatus for a course of
study pursued by means of correspondence, and the movements in interstate commerce were held to bring the.sub-

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Dissent.

258 U. S.

ject-matter within the domain of federal control, and to
exempt it from the burden imposed by state legislation."
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21, relied
on by counsel for appellants and said to be exactly applicable to the case at bar, was an effort by the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company to secure immunity from city regulation for a cab system which it ran in New York to and
from its station to points in New York City, on the
ground that it was part of interstate commerce. -This
court held that because it was independent of the railroad
transportation, and not included ift the contract of railroad carriage, it did not come within interstate commerce.
The case was distinguished in the Swift Case (p. 401)
from cartage for delivery of the goods when part of the
contemplated transit. There is nothing in the case to
indicate that if such an agency could be and were used in
a conspiracy unduly and constantly to monopolize interstate passenger traffic, it might not be brought within
federal restraint.
As already noted, the word "commerce" when used
in the act is defined to be interstate and foreign commerce. Its provisions are carefully drawn to apply only
to those practices and obstructions*which in the judgment
of Congress are likely to affect interstate commerce prejudicially. Thus construed and applied, we think the act
clearly within congressional power and valid.
Other objections are made to the act and its provisions
as violative of other limitations of the Constitution, but
the only one seriously pressed was that based on the Commerce Clause and we do no deem if'necessary to discuss
the others.
The orders of the District Court refusing the interlocutory injunctions are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.
MR. JusTIcE DAY did not sit in these cases and took no
part in their decision.

