NEW ORLEANS, &-c., R.R. COMPANY v. DELAMORE. 501
Statement of Facts.

In the present case, the objection made at the trial was not
because of the want of a count for interest, but because interest
was "not due on an open account." The case was not one of
an open account, in the sense.of any rule as to interest, and

the holding of the court, that interest was due, was correct.
Judgment afflrmed.

NEW ORLEANS, SPANISH FORT AND LAKE RAILROAD COIPANY v. DELAMORE & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 15, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

This court has jurisdiction in error over a judgment in a suit in a State court
determining the effect to be given to a sale of the property in controversy
by order of a District Court in bankruptcy. Factor's Insurance Co. v.
.i)uqThy. 111 U. S. 738, on that point cited and applied.
The authority of the proper courts of the United States in bankruptcy to adjudicate a railroad company bankrupt, and to administer its property under
the bankrupt act is regarded as settled by the practice and decisions of the
Circuit Courts in several circuits.
A grant by a municipal corporation to a railway company of a right 6f way
through certain streets of the municipality, with the right to construct its
railroad thereon and .occupy them in its use, isa franchise which may be
mortgaged and pass to the purchaser at a sale under foreclosure of the
mortgage.
There is nothing in the laws of Louisiana which forbids such transfer of a
franchise to use and occupy the streets of a municipality by a railroad
corporation.
All franchises of a railroad company which can be parted with by mortgage,
pass to the assignee of the company in bankruptcy, and may be sold and
transferred to a purchaser at a bankruptcy sale.

This was a writ of. error to bring under review a decree of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana reversing a decree of the
Fifth District Court of the parish of Orleans.
The facts, as they appear'ed from the pleadings and evidence,
were as follows: The Canal Street,'City Park and Lake Shore

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

:Railroad Company was a corporation organized under the
general law of the State of Louisiana. By an ordinance of
the City of New Orleans, numbered 2,26-, administration
series, dated August 5,1873, the city granted to the corporation
named, the right of way from the neutral ground in Basin
Street, by certain other designated streets, and along the embankment on the western side of the Orleans Canal to the
lake shore, the termini and the entire route being within the
city limits. The route upon which the road was to be built
was subsequently modified by ordinance numbered 2,548, administration series, dated March 241, 1874. The company constructed and used a railroad upon the right of way so granted.
In the year 1876, upon a petition in bankruptcy filed by Edward B. Hampson and another, the railroad company was
adjudicated bankrupt b the District Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana. Beside other property
and assets surrendered by the ba-ikrupt, were "the railroa t
track, all and singular, built in pursuance of the charter
of the said company, and the various grants and privileges
conferred upon said company b r the City of New Orleans,
including the road-bed of main tracks and branches,
and all rights and appurtenances of said railroad tracks, as
well as rights of way. thereto attached,

and all the

franchises and appurtenances" of said company.
On November 29, 1876, the assignee in bankruptcy applied
to the Bankruptcy Court for an order to sell the property
above described, and other assets of the company, free and
clear of all incumbrances, and on May 19, 1877, the court
made the order prayed for, and directed the sale to be made
on the following terms: "One-third cash and the balance on
one and two years' credit, to be secured by mortgage on the
property sold." On July 14, 1877, the property was sold by
the special master appointed .bythe court to Thomas H. Handy.
The sale was afterwards confirmed by the court and a deed
made by the master to the purchaser for the railroad and "all
the right of way, powers, privileges, immunities, and franchises conferred and granted by the City of New Orleans to
the Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company," by

NEW ORLEANS, &c., R.R. COMPANY v. DELAMORE. 503
Statement of Facts.

the ordinances above mentioned. At the same time, and by the
same act, Handy gave a mortgage on the property conveyed
to him, to secure his notes given for two-thirds of the purchase-money. The mortgage contained the pact de non, alienando.
On January 31, 1878, a new railroad company was organized, under authority of the general corporation law of Louisiana, bearing the same name, to wit, .he " Canal Street, City
Park and Lake Railroad Company," and having the same objects and purposes as the company which had been adjudicated
bankrupt. To this new company Handy, on August 16, 1878,
conveyed by public act the property heretofore described,
purchased by him at the bankruptcy sale of the original Canal
Street, City Park and Lake Shore Railroad Company, and
the purchaser assumed the mortgage of Handy and his agreement to pay the balance due from him on his purchase of the
property.
Before this conveyance the City of New Orleans, by an ordinance numbered 4,523, administration series, dated May 22,
1878, had granted to the second Canal Street, City Park and
Lake Railroad Company the right of way upon which to lay a
railroad through and on the same streets and along the same
route as had been previously granted by ordinance to the first
Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company.
Both Handy and the railroad company, to which he sold
the property, made default in the payment of the mortgage
debt, and at the suit of Elizabeth Strathman and another,
holders of one of the mortgage notes made by Handy, a writ
of seizure and sale was issued, and the property described in
and covered by the mortgages was seized and sold to Moses
Schwartz & Brother, and afterwards conveyed to them by the
sheriff, by deed dated April 4, 1879.
In the -meantime, on March 31, 1879, the present plaintiff,
the New Orleans. Spanish Fort and Lake Railroad Company,
had been organized under the general law of the State for the
organization of corporations, and on April 9, 1879, Schwartz &
Brother sold and conveyed to the last-named railroad company
the railroad, "with all and singular the right of way, .powers,

OCTOBER TERM,, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

privileges, and immunities, and franchises conferred and granted
by the City of New Orleans to the Canal Street, City Park and
Lake IRailroad Company" by the ordinance of August 5, 1873,
as amended by the ordinance of March 24, 1874, being the
same property bought by Schwartz & Brother at the mortgage
sale.
On November 15, 1879, George Delamore, one of the defendants, recovered a judgment in the Fifth District Court for the
Parish of Orleans for $5,720, against the Canal Street, City
Park and Lake Railroad Company, being the second company
above mentioned organized under that name. Delamore, on
the 11th day of November, 1879, caused execution to issue on
this judgment, which, on the 18th of November, the sheriff for
the Parish of Orleans levied on a certain frame building or
structure, known as "the pavilion," being on the Bayou St.
John, at or near the entrance thereto into the Lake Pontchartrain, and also on "all and singular the right of way, the
powers, privileges, immunities and franchises conferred and
granted by the City of New Orleans to the Canal Street, City
Park and Lake Railroad Company, under and by virtue of an
ordinance of the City of New Orleans, being No. 4,523 of the
administration series adopted by the Common Council of the
City of New Orleans on the 21st of May, 1878."
Thereupon the plaintiff, the New Orleans, Spanish Fort and
Lake Railroad Company, filed the bill in this case in the Fifth
District Court for the parish of Orleans against Delamore and
the sheriff, the prayer of which was for a writ of injunction
against the defendants to restrain them from advertising or
selling, or offering for sale, the property so levied on, as above
stated. The Fifth District Court allowed the injunction as
prayed for, but on final hearing so modified it as only to restrain the seizure and sale of the rights and franchises enjoyed
by the plaintiff which it acquired from Moses Schwartz, and
decreed that the plaintiff be quieted in the enjoyment and possession of the said road, right of way, powers, privileges,
immunities, and francl.ses enjoyed by it and conferred upon it
by ordinance of the City of New Orleans, and dissolved the
injunction so far as it restrained the .-le of the property known

NEW ORLEANS, &c., R. R. COMPANY v. DELAMORE. 505
Opinion of the Court.

as the pavilion. From this decree both parties appealed to the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, which by its decree restored the
injunction which enjoined the sale of the pavilion, and dissolved
the injunction which enjoined the sale of the rights and franchises of the New Orleans, Spanish Fort and Lake Railroad
Company. The sole ground upon which the court based its
decision and decree dissolving the injunction was that, by the
proceedings in tho bankruptcy court and the sale made by its
order, Handy, the purchaser, did not acquire the right of way
and thd privileges and franchises, granted to the bankrupt corporation by the City of New Orleans, but that the same, upon
the adjudication in bankruptcy, reverted to the city.
. E. f. Johnson (1r.
plaintiff in error.

Robert Afott was with him) for

2f.. C arles T, Hornor (J1r. TWiliam S. Benedict was with
him) for defendants in error.
MRfg. Jusric WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The present writ of error taken by the railroad company
brings up for review so much of the decree of the State
Supreme Court as dissolved the injunction restraining the sale
of the right of way and franchises of the plaintiff.
The defendant denies the jurisdiction of the court upon
this appeal. We think the jurisdiction is clear. It is based
on Rev. Stat. ยง 709, which provides that "a final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a State in
which a decision in the suit could be had .
.
where
any title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under the
Constitution, or any . . . statute of
. .
the United
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege or
immunity specially set up or claimed under such Constitution
or statute, .
.
may be re-examined .and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme. Court of the United States
upon a writ of error."
The plaintiff, by its.petition in this case, filed in the Fifth

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

District Court of the Parish of Orleans, based its demand to
the relief prayed for, upon its title to the right of way, privileges and franchises derived under the provisions of the bankrupt
law of the United States by which such right of way, privileges
and franchises were surrendered in bankruptcy and sold and
purchased under the orders and decrees of the bankrupt court.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana was against
the title thus specially claimed. The case, therefore, falls precisely into the class of suits described by the statute in which a
writ of error lies to the highest court of a State.
The very question here presented was decided by this court
in the recent case of Factors' Ins. Co. v. 31urphy, 111 U. S.
738, where it was held that this court had jurisdiction in error
over the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in a suit
between citizens of that State for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
in which the only controversy related to the effect .to be given
a sale of property under an order of the bankruptcy court
directing the mortgaged property of the bankrupt to be sold
free of incumbrances. The case is in point and decisive of the
jurisdiction of this court on the present appeal.
We, therefore, proceed to consider the merits of the case.
They are involved in the one question, whether the right of
way and franchises granted by the City of New Orleans to
the first Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company
passed by the sale thereof made in pursuance of the decree of
the bankruptcy court.
The jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court to adjudicate a railroad company bankrupt and to administer its property, under
the bankrupt act, has been sustained by several Circuit Courts
of the United States. Adams v. Boston, Hartford & Erie
Railroad Co., 1 Holmes, 30; Sweatt v. Boston, Har ford &
Erie Railroad Co., 3 Cliff. 339; S. C., 5 Nat. Bank. Reg. 234;
Alabama c ChattanoogaRailroad Co. v. Yones, 5 Nat. Bank.
:Reg. 97; Winter v. Iowa, Jfinnesota&i Northern Pacifwc Railroad Co., 2 Dill. 487. No Circuit Court before which the question has been brought has denied the jurisdiction. As they
were the courts of last resort upon this question, and valuable
rights may depend upon their judgments upon this point, we

NEW ORLEANS, &c., R. R. COMPANY v. DELAMORE. 507
Opinion of the Court.

think the question should be considered as settled by the
authorities cited, and are unwilling at this late day to reexamine it, especially as we have no jurisdiction to do so, except in a collateral proceeding like the present.
The plaintiff contends that the right of way, with the franchise to build and use a railroad thereon for profit, was surrendered by the bankrupt corporation as a part of its property,
and was sold to Handy at the bankruptcy sale, and was subsequently acquired by it by means of the claim of title above set
forth. It is not contended in this case that Handy acquired
the franchise to be a corporation or any other franchise except
those just mentioned by virtue of his purchase at the bankruptcy sale.
On the other hand, it is contended by the defendant that
the right of way and the franchise to build and use a railroad
thereon reverted to the City of N\ew Orleans when the railroad
company was adjudicated bankrupt, and that all that was surrendered in bankruptcy by the railroad company and sold at
the bankruptcy sale or the mortgage sale, was the railroad
without right of way or other franchise.
The contention of the defendant, if sustained, would entirely
destroy the value of the property as a railroad. For it is plain
that a large part, if not all the line, of the railroad is laid upon
the streets and public grounds of the city. If, therefore, the
franchise of the right to occupy the streets and public grounds
with the railroad track- did not pass to the purchaser at the
bankruptcy sale, then all that he took by his purchase was a
lot of ties and iron rails which he could be compelled at any
time. by the order of the city authorities, to remove. If the
law be as contended by the defendant in error, a judicial sale
of the railroad and its franchises would be the destruction of
both.
The ground upon which this view of the defendant is based
is that the franchises of a railroad corporation are inalienable
in Louisiana. In passing upon this question it is necessary to
bear in mind the distinction between the different classes of
railroad franchises. This was stated by Mr. Justice Curtis in the
case of Hall v. Sullivan Railroad Co., 21 Law Reporter, 138;

OCTOBER TERMI, 184.
Opinion of the Court.

S. C., 2 Redfield Am. Railway Cas. 621; 1 Brunner, 613, where
he said: "The franchise to be a corporation is therefore not a
subject of sale and transfer unless the law by some positive
provision made it so and pointed out the modes in which such
sale and transfer may be effected. But the franchises to build,
own and manage a railroad and to take tolls thereon are not
necessarily corporate, rights. They are capable of existing in
and being enjoyed by natural persons, and'there is nothing in
their nature inconsistent with their being assignable."
The same subject was considered by this court in the ease of
3foran. v. Louisiana,93 U. S. 217, 223, where it was held
that exemption from taxation was a right personal to the railroad corporation to which it was granted, and did not pass
upon a sale of its property and franchises. M-r. Justice Field,
who delivered the opinion of the court, distinguished such an
immunity from taxation from those rights, privileges and immunities which, accurately speaking, are the franchises of a
railroad company. He said: "The franchises of a railroad
corporation are rights or privileges which are essential to the
operations of the corporation, and without which its road and
works would be of little value. . . . They are positive
rights or privileges, witliout the possession of which the road
of the company could not be successfully worked. Immunity
from taxation is not one of them. The former may be conveyed to a purchaser of the road as part of the property qf the
company7; -the latter is personal and incapable of transfer without express statutory direction."
We ire of opinion that those franchises which in the case
just cited are described as necessary to the use and enjoyment
of the property of a railroad company are assignable in Louisiana, and that there is no warrant in the jurisprudence of that
State for holding the contrary.
That the quality of being transferable attaches to such
franchises of a railroad as are essential to its use and enjoyment by the company is conclusively shown by ยง 2396 Rev.
Stat. Louisiana, Act of 1856, page 205, which was in force
when the first Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad
Company was organized, and has been in force ever since.

NEW ORLEANS, &c., R.R. COMPANY v. DELAMORE. 509
Opinion of the Court.

That section provides as follows: "In addition to the powers
conferred by law upon railroad companies, any railroad company established under the laws of this State may borrow, from
time to time, such sum of money as may be required for the
construction or repairs of any railroad, and for this purpose
may issue bonds, or their obligations secured by mortgage,
upon the franchises and all the property of said companies."
The authority to mortgage the franchises of a railroad company necessarily implies the tower to bring the franchises so
mortgaged to sale, and to transfer them with the corporeal
property of the company to the purchaser. It could not be
held, that when, a mortgage on a railroad and its franchises
was authorized by law, that the attempt of the mortgagor to
enforce the mortgage would destroy the main -value of the
property by the destruction of its franchises.
Since the passage of the act of 1856, the Supreme Court of
Louisiana has recognized the validity of the transfer to individuals of those rights and franchises of a railroad company without which the road could not be successfully used.
In the case of Chaffe v. Ludeling, 27 La. Ann. "607,it was
declared that the defendants, by their purchase at sheriff's sale
of the property of the Vicksburg, Shrevesp.ort and Texas Railroad Company, a Louisiana corporation, acquired "the privileges and franchise of the corporation, its powers to operate
the railroad. The sheriff's sale made them the owners of the
road, its right of way, its property, its franchise, but did not
and could not make them a corporation.
.
.
.
This sale
conveyed to them the rights and property of that company; it
made them joint owners thereof." *
There is, therefore, nothing in the nature of a corporate franchise under the law of Louisiana which forbids its transfer
with the other property of the corporation.
And such must be the conclusion whenever a railroad company is authorized by law to mortgage its tangible property
Note
N by the court.-The sale in this case was made by virtue of, a writ of
seizure and sale issued upon a mortgage executed by the Railroad Company
upoi its property and franchises to secure its bonds. See'Jackson v. Ludeling,
99 U. S. 513.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and franchises. When there has been a judicial sale of railroad property under a mortgage authorized by law, covering
its franchises, it is now welt settled that the franchises necessary
to the use and enjoyment of the railroad passed to the purchasers. This was assumed to be the law by the opinion of
this court pronounced by Mr. Justice Matthews in the case of
3fem2his Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 609, 619,
where it was said: "The franchise of being a corporation need
not be implied as necessary to secure to the mortgage bondholders or the purchasers at a foreclosure sale the substantial
rights intended to be secured. They acquire the ownership of
the railroad and the property incident to it and the franchise
of maintaining and operating it as such." See also Hall v.
Sullivan Railroad Co., above cited; Galveston Railroad v.
Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459.
It follows that if the franchises of a railroad corporation
essential to the use of its road, and other tangible property, can
by law be mortgaged to secure its debts, the surrender of its
property, upon the bankruptcy of the company, carries the
franchises, and they may be sold and passed to the purchaser at
the bankruptcy sale.
The plaintiff, therefore, by virtue of the bankruptcy sale,
and the subsequent mortgage sale and the several mesne conveyances mentioned, acquired with the tangible property of
the original Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company the franchise granted by the City of New Orleans to lay
its track over the streets and public grounds designated in the
ordinance of August 6, 1873, and the amendatory ordinance of
March 24, 1874. This right of way so vested could not be
affected by the ordinance of the City of New Orleans to grant
a similar right of way over the same streets and route to the
second Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company,
and the acceptance of the grant by the latter railroad company; for, as it was not in the power of the city to repeal the
grant to the first company by an ordinance passed expressly
for that purpose, it could not do so by any indirect or roundabout method.
The defendants are seeking to sell, upon execution, the right

STURGES v. CARTER.
I

Syllabus.

of way which the City of INew Orleans, by its ordinance No.
4,523, dated May 21, 1878, attempted to graiit to the second
Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company, and
which had already been granted to the first company of that
name. In substance and in effect the right of way seized by
the sheriff at the instance of Delamore, is the right of way
owned by and in possession of the plaintiff, and forms a part of its
property, giving value, and necessary to the use and enjoyment
of the residue. The property thus seized in execution is
claimed by the .plaintiff, who is a third person, not a party to
the judgment on which the execution is issued. This is the case
provided for by Articles 395,.3.96, 397 and 399 of the Code of
Practice, and it is under these articles that the present suit is
brought and justified. We think the injunction granted by
the Fifth District Court restraining the sale of the right of
way and franchises of the plaintiff should not- have been dissolved.
So much of the decree of the Supreme Court of Louisiazna as
was appealed from in this case is, therefore, reversed, ahd
the cause is remanded to that court, with instructions to
render a decre; enjoining and restraining the defendants
from advertising or selliny or offering for sdle, upon the
execution described'in the bill, the right of way and franchises granted by the City of .lew Orleans to the Canal
Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company by ord!nance _o. 4,523, administrationseries,dated May 21, 1

STURGES v. CARTER, Treasurer.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT. OF OHIO.
Argued March 31,1885.-Decided May 4,1885.

A statute of Ohio authorized county auditors to issue compulsory process to
bring before them persons who, they had reason to believe, were making
false returns of their property for purposes of taxation, and to examine
them under oath, and required them to notify'every person before making

