TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Titles of Cases.

allowed and erroneously computed. These questions not having been raised on the trial before the jury, and saved by a bill
of exceptions, cannot be considered by this court on a writ of
error.

The proceedings of record appear to have been entirely
regular, and in accordance with the statutes and practice of
Louisiana.
Judgment affimed,

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
STEVENS & Others v. MEMPHIS & CHARLESTON
RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. MEMPHIS, CLARWSVILLE
LOUISVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.

&

STEVENS & Others v. LOUISVILLE, NASHVILLE &
GREAT-SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
STEVENS & Others v. MISSISSIPPI & TENNESSEE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
STEBVENS & Others v. MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY & Others.
APPEALs

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COUMT OF TE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
ATgucd October 23, 24 27, 2,.29,30, 184.-Decided May 4, 1885.

STEVENS & Others v. CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS & NEW
ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
ArPPEAL FRO1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted January 15, 1385-Decided May 4, 185.

STATES FOR

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Titles of Cases.

STEVENS & Others v. LOUISVILLE, NASHVILLE &
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
STEVENS & Others v. NASHVILLE & NORTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. NASHVILLE & DECATUR RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. NASHVILLE & DECATUR RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. McMINNVILLE & MANCHESTER
RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA &
ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. WINCHESTER & ALABAMA
RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
APPEAS FROM THE CIRCUIT COUrr OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT.OF TENNESSEE.
Argued October a, 24,27 23, 29, 30, 1884.-Decided May 4, 1888.

STEVENS & Others v. CINCINNATI, CUMBERLAND

GAP & CHARLESTON RAILROAD COMPANY
& Others.
STEVENS & Others v. KNOXVILLE

& KENTUCKY

RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA

& GEORGIA RAILROAD COMPANY
STEVENS & Others v EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA
& GEORGIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U7NITED. STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT

OF TENNESSEE.

Argued October 23, 24, 7, 23, 29 30, 1884.-Decided May 4, 1888

TNNESSEE BOND CASES.
Statement of Facts.
The Legislature of the State of Tennessee, on the 1ith of February, 1852,
enacted a law ",to establish a system of internal improvements," in which
it was provided that the State should issue to certain railroad companies
therein named its negotiable coupon bonds, and that when the respective
roads should be completed, the State shculd be invested with a lien upon
each road and its superstructure and equipment, "for the payment of all of
said bonds issued to the company, as provided in this act, and for the interest accruing on said bonds:" Hdd, in view of other provisions in the
act, and, of the practical construction oput upon it, that the lien thereby
created, was created to secure payment to the State-of the amount of indebtedness it thus undertook to incur, and not payment to the holders of the State
bonds thus agreed to be issued ; and that the State could accept payment
in other mode or modes than those pointed out by the act or acts creating
the lien, and could cause the property to be released from it, either by legislation, or by foreclosure under the statute, while the bonds issued to the
company for the construction of the road released or foreclosed were still
outstanding-and unpaid.
Hand v. Savannah & Charleston Railroad Co., 13 S. 0. 314, distinguished
from this case.
Sin ing Iiund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, distinguished from this case.
The relation of principal debtor and creditor at no time existed under the acts
of the Legislature of Tennessee referred to in the opinion of the court, between the railroad companies and the holders of the State bonds issued
under the act; nor did the State at any time under those acts hold the relation of surety toward such,holders; the State was at the outset and remained the sole debtor bound on the bonds.

These were suits brought by the holders of. unpaid bonds of
the State of Tennessee, issued to various railroad companies
to establish a system of
under the act of February 11, 1852, "1
internal improvements," to enforce the lien which was vested
in the State by that act on the property of the companies respectively as security for the payment of the bonds, and the
accruing interest thereon. The sections of the act on whidh
the rights of the parties depend are §§ 1, 2, 3, 4,- 5, 6, 7,10, 12,
13 and 14. These are as follows:
"ScTioN 1.'Be itenacted.by the GeneralA.ssembly of the State
qf Tenne8see, That whenever the East Tennessee and Virginia
Railroad Company shall hve procured bonaxfde subscriptions
for the capital stock in said company to an amount sufficient to grade, bridge, and prepare for the iron rails the whole
extent of the main trunk line proposed to be constructed
by said company, and it shall be shown by said company to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the Governor of the State that said subscriptions are good and
solvent, and whenever said company shall have graded, bridged,
and shall have ready to put down the necessary timbers for the
reception of rails, -and fully prepared a section of thirty miles
of said road at either terminus, in a good and substantial manner, with good materials, for putting on the iron rails and
equipments, and the Governor shall be notified of these facts,
and that said section, or any part thereof, is not subject to any
lien whatever, other than those created in favor of the State
by the acts of 1851-2, by the written affidavit of the chief
engineers and President of said company, together with the
written affidavit of a competent engineer by him appointed, at
the cost of the company, to examine said section, then said
Governor shall issue to said company coupon bonds of the
State of Tennessee, to an amount not exceeding eight thousai
dollars per mile on said section, and on no other conditio.
which bonds shall be payable at such place in the Unite
States as the President of the company may designate, bearing,
an interest of six _per centum per annum, payable semi-annual-

ly, and not having more than forty.nor less than thirty years
to mature.
"SEc. 2. Be it enacted, That the bonds before specified shall
not be used by said company for any other purpose than for
procuring the iron rails, chairs, spikes and equipments for said
section of said road, and for putting down said iron rails, and
the Governor shall not issue the same unless upon the affidavit
of said President, and a resolution of a majority of the board of
directors, for the time being, that said bonds shall not be used
for any other purpose than for procuring the said iron rails,
chairs, spikes, and equipments for said section, and for putting
down said iron rails, and the Governor shall have power to appoint a commissioner to act under oath, in conjunction with
said President, in negotiating said bonds for the purposes aforesaid, and to act in any other matters pertaining to said company, where the interest of the State, in the opinion of the
Governor, may require it.
"SEC. 3. Be it enacted, That so soon as the bonds of the
State shall have been issued for the first section of the road as

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Statement of Facts.

aforesaid, they shall constitute a lien upon said section so prepared as aforesaid, including the road-bed, right of way, grading, bridges, and masonry, upon all the stock subscribed for in
said company, and upon said iron rails, chairs, spikes, and equipments, when purchased and delivered, and the State of Tennessee, upon the issuance of said bonds, and by virtue of the
same, shall be invested with said lien or mortgage without a
deed from the company, for the payment by said company of
said bonds, with the interest thereon as the same becomes due.
"SEc. 4. Be it enacted, That when said company shall have
prepared as aforesaid a second section, or any additional number of sections, of twenty miles each of said road, connecting
with a section already completed for the iron rails, chairs,
spikes, and equipments, as provided in the first section of this
act, and the Governor shall be notified of the facts as before
provided, he shall, in like manner, issue to said company like
bonds of the State of Tennessee, to an equal amount with that
before issued under the first section of this act, for each and
every section of twenty miles of said road so prepared as aforesaid, but upon the terms and conditions hereinbefore provided,
and upon the issuance of the said bonds the State of Tennessee
shall be invested with a like mortgage or lien without'a deed
from said company, upon said stock, and upon said first and
additional section or sections of said road so prepared, upon
the rails and equipments put, or to be put, upon the same, for
the payment of said bonds and the accruing interest thereon:
Provided, That if the last section of said road shall be less than
twenty miles, or if the railroad proposed to be constructed by
any company hereinafter specified shall be less than thirty miles
in extent, bonds of the State shall be issued for such section, or
such railroad, as may be less than thirt' miles in extent for all
amount in proportion to the distance, as provided in this act
but upon the same terms and conditions in all respects, as required in regard to the bonds to be issued for the other sections
of said road. And when the whole of said road shall be completed the State of Tennessee shall be invested with a lien
without a deed from the company, upon the entire road, including the stock, right of way, grading, bridging, masonry, iron

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

rails, spikes, chairs, and the whole smperstructure and equipments, and all the property owned by the company as incident
to or necessary for its business, and all depots, and depot
stations, for the payment of all of said bonds issued to the company as provided in this act, and for the interest accruing on
said bonds. And after the Governor shall have issued bonds
for the first section of the road, it shall not be lawful for the
said company to give, create, or convey to any person or persons, or body corporate whatever, any lien, incumbrance, or
mortgage of any kind which shall have priority over, or come
in conflict with, the lien of the State herein secured; and any
such lien, incumbrance, or mortgage shall be null and void as
against said lien or mortgage of the State, and the said lien or
mortgage of the State shall have priority over all other claims
existing or to exist against said company.
"SFc. 5. Be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of said coinpany to deposit in the Bank of Tennessee, at Nashville, at least
fifteen days before the interest becomes due, from time to time,
upon said bonds issued as aforesaid, an amount sufficient to pay
such interest, including exchange and necessary commissions, or
satisfactory evidence that said interest has been paid or provided for, and if said company fail to deposit said interest as
aforesaid, or furnish the evidence aforesaid, it shall be the duty
of the Comptroller to report that fact to the Governor, and the
Governor shall immediately appoint some suitable person or
persons, at the expense of the company, to take possession and
control of said-railroad, and all the assets thereof, and manage
the same and receive the rents, issues, profits, and dividends
thereof, whose duty it shall be to give bond and security to
the State of Tennessee, in such penalty as the Governor may
require, for the faithful discharge of his or their duty as receiver or receivers, to receive said rents, issues, profits, and dividends, and pay over the same, under the direction of the Governor, toward the liquidation of such unpaid interest. And if
said company fail or refuse to deliver up said road to the person or persons so appointed by the Governor, the person so
appointed shall report that fact to the Governor, who shall
forthwith issue his warrant, directed to the sheriffs of the coun-

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Statement of Facts.

ties through which said road shall run, commanding them to
take possession of said road, fixtures, aid equipments, and
everything pertaining thereto, and place the said receiver in full
and complete -possession of the same, and said receiver so appointed shall continue in the possession of said road, fixtures,
and equipments, and, run the same, and manage the entire
road, until a sufficient sum shall be realized, exclusive of the
costs andexpenses incident to said proceedings, to pay off and
discharge the interest as aforesaid, due on said bonds, which
being done, the receiver shall surrender said road and fixtures
and equipments to said company. The Comptroller shall from
time to time settle the accounts with the receiver, and the
balance shall be deposited in the Treasury of the State. The
Comptroller is atithorized, and it is made his duty, upon his
Warrant to draw from the Treasury any sum of money necessary to meet the interest on such bonds, as may not be provided for by the company, as provided-for in this act, and the
Comptroller shall report thereof to the General Assembly from
time to time.
"SEC. 6. Be it enacted, That if said 'company shall fail or
refuse to pay anyof said bonds when they fall due, it shall be
the duty of the Governor to notify the Attorney General of
the district in which is situated the place of. business of said
company of the fact; and thereupon, said Attorney General
shall forthwith file a bill against said company, in the name of
the State of Tennessee, in the chancery or circuit court of the
county in which is situated said place of business, setting forth
the facts, and thereupon said court shall make all such orders
and decrees in said cause as may be deemed necessary by the
court, to secure the payment of said bonds, with the interest
thereon, and to indemnify the State of Tennessee against any
loss on account of the issuance of said bonds, by ordering the
said railroad to be placed in the hands of a receiver, ordering
the sale of said road, and all the property and assets attached
thereto or belonging to said company, or in such other manner.
as the court may deem best for the interest of the State.
"SEc. 7. Be it enacted, That at the end of five years after
the completion of said road, said company shall set apart one

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

per centum per annum upon the amount of bonds issued to the
company, and shall use the same in the purchase of bonds of
the State of Tennessee, which bonds the company shall pay
into the Treasury of the State, after assigning them to the
Governor, and for which the Governor shall give said company a receipt, and as between the State and said company,
the bonds so paid in shall be a credit on the -bonds issued to
,the company; and bonds so paid in, and the interest accruing thereon, from time to time, shall be held and used by the
State as a sinking fund for the payment of the bonds issued to
the company, and should said company repurchase any of the
bonds issued to it under the provisions of this act, they shall
be a credit as aforesaid, and cancelled. And should said company fail to comply with the provisions of this section, it shall
be proceeded against, as provided in the fifth section of this
act."

"SEc. 10. Be it enacted, That the provisions of this act shall
extend to and embrace the Chattanooga, Harrison, Georgetown
and Charleston Railroad Company, the Nashville and Northwestern Railroad Company, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, the Southwestern Railroad Company, *the
McMinnville and Manchester Railroad Company, the Ifemphis and Charleston Railroad Company, the Nashville and
Southern Railroad Company, the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Company, the Nashville and Memphis Railroad Company, the
Nashville and Cincinnati Railroad Company, the East Tennessee and Georgia Railroad Company, the Memphis, Clarksville
and Louisville Railroad Company, and the Winchester and
Alabama Railroad Company, so far as. the main trunk roads
to be constructed by said companies lie within the limits of this
State, and not otherwise, and said companies shall have all the
powers and privileges and be subject to all-the restrictions and
liabilities contained in this act. . .
"SEc. 12. Be it enacted, That the State of Tennessee expressly reserves the right to enact by the legislature thereof,
hereafter, all such laws as may be deemed necessary to protect
the interest of the State, and to secure the State against any
loss in consequence of the issuance of bonds under the provi-

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Statement of Facts.

sious of this act. But in such manner as not to impair the
vested rights of the stockholders of the companies.
"SEC. 13. Be it enacted, That it shall be the duty of theGovernor, from time to time, when there shall be reliable information given to him that any railroad company shall have
fraudulently obtained the issuance of bonds of the State, or
shall have obtained any of said bonds contrary to the provisions of this act, he shall notify the Attorney-General of this
State, whose duty it shall be forthwith to institute, in the,
name of the State, a suit in the Circuit or Chancery Court of
the county of the place of business of the 6ompany, setting
forth the facts. And when the fact shall satisfactorily appear
to the court that any of said bonds shall have been fraudulently
obtained, or obtained contrary to the true intent, meaning and
provisions of this act, then, and in such case, the court shall
order, adjudge and decree, that said road lying in the State,
with all the property and assets of said company, or a sufficiency thereof, shall be sold, and the proceeds shall be paid
into the treasury, and it shall be the duty of the Comptroller
immediately to vest the same in stocks, creating a sinking fund,
as provided for in the seventh section of this act. And said
company shall forfeit all rights and privileges under the provisions of this act. And the stockholders thereof shall be individually liable for the payment of the bonds so fraudulently
obtained by such company, and for all other losses that mayfall upon the State in consequence of the commission of any
other fraud by such company, excepting such stockholders as
may show to the said court that they were ignorant of or opposed the perpetration of such frauds by the company.
"SEC. 14. Be it enacted, That in the event any of the roads,
fixtures, or property belonging to any of gaid roads shall be
sold under the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of
the Governor to appoint an agent for the State, who shall attend said sale and protect the interest of the State, and shall,
if necessary to protect said interest, buy in said road or property, in the name of the State; and in case said agent shall
phrchase said road f6r the State, the Governor shall appoint a
receiver, who shall take possession of said road and property.

OCTOBER TERM, 18S4.
Statement of Facts.

and use the same as provided for in the fifth section of this act,
and said receiver shall settle with the Comptroller semi-annually until the next meeting of the General Assembly."
On the 21st of February, 1852, an act was passed providing
for the identification of the bonds to be issued to the several
companies under the act of February 11, the material parts of
which are §§ 7, 8, and 9, as follows:
"SEC. 7. Be it further enacted, That the different internal
improvement companies, to whom the bonds of the State may
be lent under the different acts of the present legislature, shall
pay the expenses of engraving and preparing the same.
"SEC. 8. Be it enacted, That the Governor of the State shall
cause to be engraved and printed the bonds which may be
issued under the acts of the present General Assembly, as a
loan to internal improvement companies, and the said bonds
shall bear date on the first day of January prior to their issuance, and the coupons thereto shall be payable on the first days
of January and July of each year.
"SEC. 9. Be it enacted, That the coupons shall be signed and
numbered by the Comptroller, and the bonds shall be countersigned, sealed, and numbered by the Secretary of State, and
upon delivering said bonds to the company authorized to receive the same, the Secretary of State shall take a receipt, reciting the number, date and amount of said bonds, in a wellbound book to be deposited in his office, and the Comptroller
and Secretary of State shall each be entitled to receive twentyfive cents for each bond so prepared, to be paid by the party
receiving the said bond."
By §Q 5 and 6 of an act of February 21, 1856, the sinking
fund provisions of the act of 1852 were changed as follows:
"SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the several railroad companies in this State, who have received,
or may hereafter receive, bonds of the State, or the indorsement of their bonds by the State to aid in the construction of
their several roads, under the provisions of the act of 18511852, and the acts amendatory thereto, at the expiration of five
years from the issuance or indorsement of their said several
bonds, annually to set apart and pay over to the Treasurer of the

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.

673

Statement ofF~ets.

State two per cent. per annum upon all bonds which hav&e been
or may hereafter be issued*or indorsed as aforesaid, as a sinking fund for the ultimate redemption of the bonds. issued or
indorsed as aforesaid; which sinking fund, when paid over, the
Governor, Comptroller- of the Treasury, and President of the
Bank of Tennessee shall invest in the bonds of the State, and
reinvest all accruing interest in like securities; and they are
hereby cofistituted a Board of Commissioners for the management, government, and control of said sinking fund.
"SE. 6. Be it furher enacted, That should any of said rail-,
road companies fail, or refuse to comply with the provisions "of
the fifth section'of this act, it shall be the duty of the Govern-,
or forthwith to notify the Attorney General of the district in
which is situated the place of business of said company failing
or refusing as aforesaid, of the fact; and thereupon the Attorney General shall immediately proceed against said company
to collect said sinking fund, in the manner prescribed in the
sixth section of an act entitled ' An Act to establish a system
of internal improvements in this State,' passed February 11,
1852."

By another act, passed March 20, 186.0,'the same provisions
were further amended as follows:
"SFc. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Tennessee,.
That the money or bonds that have heretofore or may be paid
by the cities or railroad companies in this State to the Sinking
Fund Commissioner by the 1st of January, 1860, together,
with the accruing interest thereon to that date, shall be passed
directly to the credit of the party having so paid the-same, and
be a release to said party for that amount on the debt due by
them to the-State of Tennessee.
"SEc. 2. Said bonds shall all be cancelled by said Commissioners, and if indorsed bonds of any railroad company shall
be cancelled as hereinafter provided for the cancellation of
State bonds, and shall be delivered over to said company or
corporation, tldng the President's of said company, or the
officers' of said company receipt for the same, which -receipt
shall be filed and the copy of the same placed upon a bobk,
which the said Commissioners shall keep for that purpose. 'If
VOL. CXIV-4q

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

State bonds, they shall be cancelled and filed in the office of the
Secretary of State as hereinafter provided.
"SEC. 3. That after the first day of January, 1860, all rail-

road companies or city corporations who have or may hereafter receive the 'bonds of the State, or its indorsement. of
their own bonds under the general internal improvement
law of this State, or any other law, shall be required to .pay
two and one-half per cent. per annum as a sinking fund on the
amount of the bonds so issued or indorsed by the State for said
company or corporation, to be paid in equal instalments on
the first days of April and October, five years after the date of
said bonds, and annually thereafter.
"SEC. 4. All bonds issued during any one year shall be
dated on the 1st day of January of that year.
"SEC. 5. Said companies or corporations may pay said sinking

fund in cash or in the like character of bonds that may have
been issued or indorsed by the State for said company at their
face or par value.
"SEC. 6. If paid in money, the Commissioners shall inest it
immediately in the bonds of the State, and shall have the same
cancelled and iled as heretofore provided. Such bonds are to
be of the same character as those issued to such company or
corporation.
"SEC. 7. The sinking fund, when paid, in all cases shall be
passed directly to the credit bf said company or corporation,
and be a release to said company-or corporation from that
amount due by them to the State. The Commissioners shall
issue a receipt to each company or corporation for such payment, retaining a duplicate in a well-bound book kept for that
purpose.
"4SEC. 8. Each and every railroad company or city corporation shall provide the interest semi-annually, as now provided
by law, on the amount of bonds unpaid at the time said interest
falls due, and not on the original amount issued to or indorsed
by the State for said company as heretofore provided.
"SEC. 9. The Comptroller of 'the State shall keep a regular
accounL against each compiany or corporation, charging them
with the amount of bonds originally issued to or indorsed for

tENNESSEE j3OND CASES.
Statement of Facts.

said company or corporation by the State,,and crediting them
by the amount of sinking fund paid, and shall furnish the
Treasurer of State a statement of the amount due by each
company or corporation on the first of Jime and December of
each year, that he may know how much interest each company
or corporation has to pay.
"SEc. 10. The Commissioners of the Sinking Fund shall cancel all bonds of the State as sodn as paid in oirpurchased, by
cutting out the Governor's and Secretary of 'State's names,
and so defacing each coupon that it cannot by possibility be
used or circulated, and shall file the same in the Secretary *of
State's office.
"SEc. 11. This law shall be in full force from and after its
passage, and shall repeal all laws in conflict with it, but shall
not be so construed as otherwise to affect any law on the subject of the sinking .fund or the payment of interest due on
state or indorsed bonds."
Under these statutes state bonds were from time to time
issued to the several enumerated railroad companies in the
following form:
$1,000,
"$1,000.
No.
No. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
"Know all men by these presents: That the State of Ten, or order,
nessee acknowledges, to owe to
One Thousand Dollars of the lawful money of the United
States of America, "which the said State promises to pay in the
day of
,1s ,
city of New York, on the
with interest thereon, at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
according to the tenor, and upon the presentation of the coupons hereunto attached. For the payments of said sums of
money, and the interest thereon, at the times and places, and
in the manner aforesaid, the faith of the said State of Tennessee is irrevocably pledged; this bond being issued in pursuance
and by authority of an- act of the General Assembly of said
State, passed February 11th, 1852, to establish a system of
Internal Improvements in said State.
"In testimony whereof, and in pursuance of the acts afore-

676

,

QOTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

said, I,
, Governor of the State of Tennessee, have
hereunto subscribed my name officially, and caused the same
to be countersigned by the Secretary of State,' with the great
seal of the State affixed.
"[.
] Done at the Executive Department in the city of
"
,18
day of
Nashville, this
To which was attached the following form of coupon:
",30.

THE TREASURER

STATE OF

OF THE

TENNESSEE.

30.

"Will pay the bearer THiRTY DOLLARS, in the city of New
York, on theday of18-, being the semi-annual
interest then falling due on bond No.
30.
"J. C. SUTTRELL,
,Comtroler.,,
Upon the issue of the bonds, receipts were executed by, the
companies respectively, in the form required by the statute, in
a well-bound book deposited in the office of the Secretary of
,State. The bonds, after their delivery, were sold in the market by the respective companies, in conjunction with the State
commissioner, and the proceeds used in the way contemplated
by the statute.
No complaint was made of any default on the part of the
several companies whose roads were involved in these suits, prior
to the late civil war. After the beginning of the war, however, but few payments were made, and various expedients
were resorted to, from time to time, for relieving the companies from their embarrassments. In 1866, another act was
passed aiithorizing a further issue of State bofids, under which
some of the bonds embraced in these suits were put out. In
this act the provisions as to the lien for the security of the
payment of the bonds was substantially the same as in the act
of 1852. None of these devices, however, accomplished the
purpose the State had in view, and ?n the 25th of February,
1869, "An Act to liquidate the State debt, contracted in aid of
railroad companies in the State of Tennessee," was passed.
That act is as follows:

TENNESSEE' BOND CASES.
Statement of Facts.'

"Whereas, under the General Internal Improvement Laws
of the State, passed from time to time, aid has'been granted to
various Railroad Companies by the loaning of the six per cent.
bonds of the State, to enable said companies to iron, equip,
'build and bridge, and for other purposes, which is now secured
to the State by ,a first mortgage or lien on the franchise,
property and fixtures of respective Railroad Companies; and
"Whereas, it is desirable for the general welfaxe of the State
that the State shall be reimbursed such amounts as have been
advanced to the different Railroad Companies, as fast as may
be practicable; therefore,
"SE TIoN 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
8tate of Tennessee, That the respective Railroad Companies, or
either of them that hav6 created indebtedness to the State, are
hereby authorized to repay any amount of the principal of such
indebtedness as they have respectively created in the bonds of
the State, in such amount and at such times as may be practicable: Provided,however, That nothing in this act shall be
sQ construed as to release said Railroad Companies from any lien
which the State may have on the same for any unpaid interest
now due on said bonds of the State authorized to be surrendered
by this Act.
"SEC. 2. Be it further enacted, That any Railroad Company

or Companies repaying any indebtedness due the State under
the provisions of this Act, are authorized to issue bonds of equal
amount and denomination with the bonds of the State paid and
delivered up for cancellation, as hereinafter provided, which
said railroad bonds,* so issued in lieu of any equal amount
of State bonds, shall be certified to by the Comptroller, and
entered in a book to be kept for that purpose, with date, number and amount, and shall be a lien, pro rata in amount and
of equal validity and'effect with the unretired part of the
State indebtedness upon such railroad, and all its property,
franchises, fixtures, and material.
"SEC.

3. Be it further enacted, That in order to facilitate

the Railroad Companies that may wish to avail themselves of
the provisions of this Act in repaying the indebtedness due to
the State respectively, they, or any of them, axe hereby author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ized to consolidate their property, in whole or in part, with other
Railroad Companies, and issue bonds and stock as provided for
in the second section of this Act, and may adopt the corporate
franchise of either of the roads as the stockholders may elect,
and each Railroad Company paying its indebtedness, and such
Railroad Companies as may consolidate under the provisions'of
this Act, are hereby authorized to determine, by a vote of the
stockholders of said Company or consolidated Companies, the
number of directors of such Company, and elect the same under
-the new organization, and that the said directors, so elected,
shall, according to the by-laws and rules of said corporation,
elect one of their number President of said Company.
"Sxc. 4. Be it further enacted, that the Comptroller of the
*State shall receive from the Railroad Companies, or any of
them, bonds of the State in such amounts as may be presented,
and cancel the same in the presence of the officer or agent of
the Railroad Company paying them in, and execute to the said
Railroad Company or Companies duplicate receipts for the
umount and number of said bonds so paid in, and it shall further
be the duty of the Comptroller to certify on the bonds of any
Railroad Company or Companies repaying indebtedness due to
the State, that the same has be~n paid, and that the so certified
[bonds] are secured by first mortgage: Provided, That said
Railroad Companies shall liquidate their indebtednes prior to
the maturity of the bonds that have causea said indebtedness.
And be itfurther provided, that said bonds, when executed by
the respective Railroad Companies, or either of them, shall be
deposited with the Comptroller of the State, whose duty it shall
be to deliver said bonds, or any number of them, to the President and Directors of the Company, on the deposit by said
President and Directors or authorized agent of an equal amount
of the six per cent. bonds of the State of Tennessee, with unpaid coupons attached, and the Company's first mortgage
bonds, authorized to be issued by this Act, shall have no validity
or value except the Comptroller's certificate is affixed on the
face of each bond, that said bond is executed, and issued
and by virtue of law taken the place of a bond of the State
and is the first mortgage bond.

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Sttemnent of Facts.

"SEC. 5. Be it further enacted, That the Comptroller shall be
entitled to a fee of one dollar on each thousand dollars of bonds
certified as aforesaid, to be paid by the Railroad Company for
which the same is done; and it shall be lawful for the. Comptroller to discharge the duties imposed by this Act, by and
through an agent in the city of New York; and all the provisions of this Act shall attach to and become a ppart of the
charter of any Railroad Company or Companies acting under
it.
"SEc. 6. Be it further enacted, That by and with the consent of the Board of Directors of any Railroad Company in
this State under the General Improvement Law passed the
11th of February, 1852, and all the amendments thereto, that
any person or corporation may, by paying the indebtedness of
such Railroad Company to the State in the bonds of the. State,
as provided for by law, be, and they are-hereby, substituted
and entitled to all the liens against said company for the payment of said debt that the State had or has by law, and th3
Governor and Secretary of State shall give such party or parties paying such indebtedness a certificate showing the facts,
which shall be evidence against said Company of such indebtedness to said individuals or corporations.
I "SEC. 7.Be it further enacted, That any person or persons
may, with the consent and approbation. of any Railroad Company, which is indebted to, and for which, the State of Tennessee holds a lien, pay the said debt, so far as'the State is concerned, in the bonds of the'State, or any coupons of bonds at
par, and the person or persons so paying the debt of any Railroad Company with the consent of such Railroad Company,
shall, upon filing with the Treasurer of this State the written
assent of said Railroad Company, under the corporate seal of
said .Railroad Company, ,be entitled to have and hold all the
lien or liens which the State of Tennessee had or has upon said
railroad or its property, and shall have the same right to enforce the same which the State of Tennessee had,.the object
and intent being fo place the person or persons so paying with
the consent of said Railroad Company in the same position
and with the same rights which the State of Tennessee had

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

previous to and before the said payment, and ivith tuil power
to enforce the same.
"SEC. 8. Be it further enacted, That any person or persons
who may, with the consent and approbation of any iRailroad
Company pay any part or portion of the indebtedness of such
company, as provided in sec.-, shall have, hold, and [be] subrogated in all the rights, privileges, and lien or liens of the State, to
the extent of, and in proportion to, the amount of such indebtedness, with the same rights and privileges the State now has, to
the extent of such payment or payments: Provided, The passage of this Act shall not decrease the lien of the State upon
any railroad of the State until the entire claim of the State
is fully liquidated, or affect the interest of the present bondholders of the State: Provided, That Railroad Companies which
have issued second mortgage bonds, availing themselves of the
provisions of this Act, shall file with the Comptroller bonds of
the same series as those loaned to such company, for which the
State holds a first mortgage lien: Provided, The bonds to be
issued by the companiy, under the provisions of this Act, shall
not have a longer time to run than the bonds of the State thus
released and cancelled.
"SEc. 9. Be it further enacted, That this Act shall take
effect from and after its passage."
At the next session of the General Assembly, January 20,
1870, this act was amended as follows:
"AN Acrr for the Payment of the State Debt.
"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
qf liennessee, That an Act entitled 'An Act to liquidate the
State debt, contracted in aid of railroad companies in the State
of Tennessee,' passed February 25, 1869, be, and the same is
hereby, amended, so as to allow any railroad company which
may be indebted to the State by reason of the bonds of the
State loaned to said railroad company, to pay into the State,
in liquidation of the principal of said indebtedness, any of the
legally issued six per cent. bonds of the State of Tennessee
outstanding, without regard to series or number; and such

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.

'681

Statement of Facts.

payment shall, to the extent made, be a full .and perfect discharge of the lien which the State holds upon the. property of
such railroad company, held by virtue of the bonds of the State
issued to such railroad company, whether they be the -same
bonds or the same series of bonds issued to said company under
the Act passed February 11, 1852, and Acts amendatory theieof, or not.
"SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That railroad companies.
issuing their own mortgage bonds under the provisions of the
Act which this is intended to amend, be allowed to fix the
rate of interest which the said bonds of the railroad ompany
are to bear, and all laws in conflict are hereby repealed: -Provided, that when said railroad companies owe interest already
due, coupons past due shall be taken by the Comptroller or
Treasurer in discharge of such indebtedness for interest.
"SEc. 3. Be -it
further enacted, That when any company,
under the provisions of this Act, shall pay into the Treasury of
the State bonds which have been issued by the State to said
company, the said bonds shall be cancelled; but should any
company, in discharge 6f its own debts, pay into the Treasury
any bonds that were issued to other companies that may still
be indebted to the State, such bonds so paid in shall not be cancelled, but shall be held by the State as purchased bonds; retaining a lien fpr the State upon the road to -which said bonds
were originally issued until the debt of said road to the Stater
shall be fully discharged, when the bonds so-held~shall be cancelled: Provided,that the provisions of this Act shall not be su
construed as to allow the payment and satisfaction of debts cre:
ated by bonds issued by the State, and upon which the State is,
secondarily liable, nor to the payment of the sinking fund, now
required by law, of the railroad companies of this State.,
"SEc. 4. Be itfurther enacted, That this act shall take effect
from and after its passage."
Under these statutes the companies whose roads were involved
in the present suits against the Memphis and Charleston IRailroad Company, the Louisville, Nashville. and Great Southern
Railroad Company, the Nashville and Decatur Railroad Con-

OCTOBER TERMi, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

pany, the iNashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railroad Company, the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad
Company, the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad
Company, the Memphis and Tennessee Railroad Company, and
the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, by the use of substitution bonds or otherwise, obtained from the State a discharge
_df the liens upon their property under the act of February 11,
1852, and the acts amendatory thereof, so far as the State had
the right to execute such a discharge. In doing so, however,
they used, to some extent, other State bonds than those which
were issued to them originally under the provisions of the act.
The bonds so issued and not returned to the State, constituted
the cause of action on which these suits were brought against
the companies above named.
To provide for cases where the companies failed to meet
their obligations to the State under the act of 1852, and did not
comply with the provisions of the acts of 1869 and 1870, an act
of December 21, 1870, was passed, in which, after reciting as
follows: "11TVereas,in the recent attempt to sell the State's interest in said roads, various legal questions arose, presenting
serious obstacles to a sale under the act of 1870, which it is
deemed expedient and necessary to obviate before the interest
of the State in said roads shall be again offered for sale; and
wh ereas, by the act of 1852, chapter 151, § 12, the right is expressly reserved to the State to enact all such laws in the future
as should be deemed necessary to protect the interest of the
State, and to secure the State against any loss in consequence
of the issuance of bonds under the provisions of said act, in
such manner as not to impair the vested rights of stockholders
of the companies," provision was made for a summary proceeding to foreclose the lien vested in the State, under the act
of 1852 and the several amendatory acts, by filing a bill in
equity, in the Court of Chancery at Nashville, against the delinquent companies, to obtain a decree for the sale of the interest of the State in their property. In this act it was prO_
vided, that the purchase-money might "be discharged in any
of the outstanding legal bonds of the State," and that, upon the
sale of any of the franchises of either of the companies," all

'TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Counsel for Parties.

the rights, privileges and immunities appertaining to the fran-chises so sold under its act of incorporation and the amendments thereto, and the general improvement law of the State,
and acts amendatory thereof, shall be transferred to and.vest
in such purchaser, and the purchaser shall hold said franchise
subject to all liens and liabilities in favor of the State, as now
provided by. law, against the railroad companies."
Under the provisions of this act the liens on the roads involved in the suits against the Memphis, Clarksville and Louisville Railroad Company, the Nashville and Northwestern
Railroad Company, the McMinnville and Manchester Raihoad
Company, the Winchester and Alabama Railroad Company,
the Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap and Charleston Railroad Company, and the Knoxville and Kentucky RailroadCompany
were all foreclosed, and the property sold under decrees which
reserved the lien of the State referred to in the statute, "as far
as may be necessary to secure the purchase-money as aforesiid,
and the other rights of the State under the decree in this cause
and the said acts of the legislatuie." Payments of the purchase-money were made in bonds of the State of Tennessee
without distinction. Bonds of the State issued to the companies that constructed the foreclosed roads, not taken up at
these sales or otherwise by the State, were the causes of Action
embraced* in the suits against the last-named companies, and
the defendants in those suits claimed the property under the
purchases at the foreclosure sales, free of all liens in favor of
the State or its bondholders.
The Circuit Courts dismissed the bills in all the suits, and
these appeals were taken from the several decrees to that etfect.
.M". George Hoadly and -Y. Wager Swayne for appellants.
M.
oadly.'s brief was also signed by -r. Edward L. Andrews,.XW. ,7ohn C. F. Gardner,.Mr. Edgar .X. Johnson and
.X'.Edward Colston. - .1r. Swayne's brief was also signed by
.fr.
. L.Pierce,Jr.
-Yr. &9arlesF Soutk/ayd for Memphis & Charleston Rail-.
road Company, East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia Railroad

OCTOBER TER-M, 1884.
Counsel for Parties.

Company, and Cincinnati, Cumberland Gap & Charleston
Railroad Company, appellees.
Xr. Edward Baxter for Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Company, Nashville & Decatur Railroad Company, and Memphis, Clarksville & Louisville Railroad Company, appellees.
Xr. William K. Ramsey for John B. Smith, Trustee of the
mortgage of the Memphis & Ohio Railroad, the Memphis,
Clarksville & Louisville Railroad, and the Louisville & Nashville Railroad, appellee.
Mr. E. .H East for Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railroad Company, Nashville & Northwestern Railroad Company,
McMinnville & Manchester Railroad Company, and Winchester & Alabama Railroad Company, appellees.
Xr. P. Hamilton-for Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company,
appellee.
.Mr. John A. Campbell for Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company, Chieago, St. Louis & New Orleans Railroad Company,
and Illin6is Central Railroad Company, appellees.
XMr. James Fentress filed a brief for Chicago, St. Louis &
New Orlearj Railroad Company, appellee.
Mr, J. B. HeiskelZ filed a brief for Memphis & Charleston
.Railro dCompany, appellee.
-Kr. William -3 Baxter-filed a brief for Knoxville & Kentucky Railroad Company 'and Knoxville & Ohio Railroad
Company, appellees.
Mrk. George Brown, Xr. James T. Shields and Mr. John K
Slelds filed a brief for East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia
Railrdad Company, appellee.

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

-r. A7.Hf. and .r. TF -. _Poston, filed a brief for Memphis
and Charleston Railroad Company and East Tennessee and
Virginia Railroad Company, appellees.
_r. L. W. Humes filed a brief for Memphis & Charleston
Railroad Company, appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WXiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above recited, he continued:
The question which lies at the foundation of all these suits
is, whether the statutory lien with which the State of Tennessee was invested, upon the.issue of its bonds to railroad companies under the internal improvement act of February 11,
1852, and the several.acts amendatory thereof, bound the property of the company to which the issue was made for the
payment of the bonds so issued, and the interest thereon, to
the several holders thereof, or only to the State; for, if to the
State alone, it is conceded-the lien has been discharged, and is
no longer operative.. The precise point of the inquiry is, for
whose benefit was the lien created? Was' it the State, or the
bondholders, or both the State and the bondholders?
The lien which was vested in the State was as security for
the payment by the company of "all of said bonds issued to
the company, as provided in this act, and for the interest accruing on said bonds." This is the language of the provision
for the final lien which was to attach on the completion of the
whole road, to "all the property owned by the company, as
incident to, or necessary for, its business." § 4. To whom this
payment was to be made is nowhere stated in express terms.
In the absence of anything to the contrary, the implication
would undoubtedly be that it must be to the holder of the bond,
as he was the person to whom the bond, as a bond, was payable; but if, on an examination of the whole statute in the
light of surrounding circumstances, and interpreting it with
reference to the subject matter of the legislation, it appears
that the intention was to secure only a payment to the State
of the debt incurred by the company on the loan of the bonds,
there is nothing in the language employed to express the legis.

OCTOBER TERM1,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

lative will which necessarily extends .the operation of the
statute beyond what is required to give effect to such an intention. It may be that the legislature used the phrase "payment
of the bonds and the accruing interest thereon" to express the
idea of "payment to the State for the bonds," and, if it did, the
statutory lien will stand only as security for such a payment.
The liability of the companies to the bondholders, if any there
be, rests alone on the statute, which contemplated loans by the
State of its own bonds to the several companies in aid of the
public works they were respectively engaged in constructing.
The bonds were to be "coupon bonds of the State of Tennessee." This implies State bonds with coupons for interest
attached, in the ordinary form then in use, whereby the faith
of a State of the United States was pledged for their payment.
Such must have been the understanding of all parties at the
time, for the bonds actually issued were of that kind, and on
their face bound only the State.

The law made no provision

for naming, either in or upon a bond, the particular company
n whose favor it was issued. Neither did the bonds themselves, as issued, contain, by indorsement or otherwise, any
obligation whatever on the part of the companies. They were
State bonds, pure and simple, "issued in pursuance and by
authority of an act of the General Assembly of said State,
passed February 11th, 1852." They were not even made payable to the companies to which they were respectively issued,
but went on the market as coupon bonds of the State of Tennessee, payable to the bearer thereof, and apparently nothing
else. In this form they were bought and sold by dealers and
investors in public securities. So that the point to be determined from an examination of the statute, is, whether a State,
when lending its own bonds and taking back security for their
payment, intended to protect those who might afterwards become the holders of the bonds against the consequences of its
own repudiation or inability to pay, or only to indemnify itself
.against loss by reason of the loan of its credit to those who
were engaged in constructing its great works of internal improvement. To say the least, the strong presumption is that,
in such a transaction, the purpose of a State would be to pro-

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

tect itself, and not to secure its own pledge of faith to the bondholders by a mortgage from those to whom its credit was
loaned.
Such being the subject matter of the legislation, we proceed
to inquire what the payment was which the State intended to
secure by the statutory lien with which it was to be invested.
It was to be a payment. This implies a debt from him who
pays to him who is to receive, and that when the payment is
complete the debt will be discharged. It js not claimed that
a borrowing company was to incur two debts by accepting
a loan under the statute, one to the State and the other to
those who might become the purchasers or holders of the borrowed bonds. The obligation was to pay the bonds once, not
twice, and the payment was to be made at the time and in the:
way provided by the law. Who then became the creditor of
the borrowing company when it incurred its debt for the borrowed bonds? Was it the State or the bondholders?
Much stress was laid in the argument on the provision in
§ 3, "that so soon as the bonds of the State shall be issued
they shall constitute a lien," etc.; and it was insisted
that, as the bond constitutes the lien, and the lien is but an
incident of the debt, the lien must continue and follow the
bond in the hands of the holder thereof, until it is finally paid
and taken up by the company. From this it was argued that
the bondholder must be the creditor, within the meaning of
the statute, and that a payment would not be complete so as
to discharge the debt of the company, until it was made to
him.
Similar language was used in a statute of South Carolina,,
passed December 20, 1856, to aid in the construction of the
Charleston and Savannah -Railroad, under which the State
guaranteed, by indorsement, the bonds of the railroad company, and it was provided "that so soon as any such bonds
shall have been indorsed as aforesaid

.

-

.

they shall con,.

stitute a lien," etc. This, it was held by the Supreme Court
of that State in Hand v. Savan/nak & O'karleton Railroad
Co., 12 S. C. 314, vested in the State a lien, not merely
for its own protection against the guaranty, but also for the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

better security of the bonds themselves into whosesoever hands
they might fall. But, as this court had occasion to say in
Railroad Conpanies v. Schutte, 103 _U. S. 118, 140, "contracts
created by, or entered into under, the authority of statutes,
are to be interpreted according to the language used in each
particular case to express the obligation assumed.
Every statute, like every contract, must be read by itself,
and it no more follows that one statutory contract is like
another, than that one ordinary contract means what another
does. . . . It must be determined from the language, used
in each particular case, what has been done, or agreed to be
done, in that case." Under the South Carolina statute the
primary liability for the payment of the bonds to the respective holders thereof, rested on the company, and the State was
bound only as surety. This was shown on the face of the
bonds themselves, and the language of the statute was, there.
fore, to be construed with that as the subject matter of the
legislation, that is to say, a guaranty by the State of the bligations of the railroad company. Here the State is the primary obligor, and the legislation is with reference to a loan of
State bonds, on which the railroad companies are in no way to
appeaf as bound. The liability of the companies grows out of
the borrowing of State bonds, to be sold in the market as State
bonds, and -apparently nothing but State bonds. The loans
were to be by the State to the companies, and the object was to
secure the payment of the loans. It may well be that the same
language when applied to one class of securities means one
thing, and when applied to another class something else. The
question now is, what does it mean in this case?
The fact which establishes the lien is the issue of bonds by
the State to a company, that is to say, the delivery of bonds
by the State to a company under the contract of loan. The
lien attaches as soon as -the delivery is complete, and when
there is no obligation on the part of the .company to the holders for the payment of the bonds, because the company is itself
the holder, and there can be no obligation of payment by itself
to itself. But, the delivery of the bonds by the State to, and
their acceptance by, a company, created at once an obligation

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

on the paxt of the company to pay the loan, or what is the
same thing, pay the bonds to the State. That it was the purpose of the statute to secure the performance of this obligation
on the part of the company is shown by the fact, that, from
the moment of the delivery of the first bond to the company,.
and before the bond could be negotiated by a sale or transfer
to a third person, a lien was vested in the State by the very act
of delivery upon 0l the property of the company then acquired,
or thereafter to be acquired, superior to any other lien or incumbrance which could be created by the company afterwards.
This is the express provision of the last paragraph in § 4; and
while it is said once in the entire act that the bonds shall constitute the lien, it is repeated again and again that, upon the
issue of the bonds; the State shall be invested with a lien, &c.
The only place where it is stated that the bonds shall constitute a lien is that in which provision is made for the issue on
the cQmpletion of the first section of thirty miles, and, before
the sentence in which this expression appears is completed, it
is declared that the lien is to vest "upon the issuance of the
bonds, and by virtue of the same." But when the whole road
is completed, and the lien is established on all the "property
owned by the company as incidett to, and necessary for, its
business, the language is, "And when the whole of said road
shall be completed, the State of Tennessee shall be invested
with a lien .
.
for the payment of all of said bonds
issued to the company as provided in this act, and for the interest accruing on said bonds." This shows unmistakably that
the State attached no special importance to the particular
phraseology of § 3 with reference to the issue for the first
thirty miles of the road. The evident" purpose of the whole
provision was to vest in the State a- lien to secure the obligation -which the company assumed in consideration of the State
bonds issued to it in aid of works of -internal improvement, to
be constructed for the benefit of the public. If that obligation
was to pay the bonds to the several persons who might become
the holders thereof, then the security would run with the bond;
but if the obligation was to pay the State for the bonds, the
security would enure only to the benefit of the State, and be
VOL. Cxiv--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to the control of the State, without regard to the bond.
holders.
The lien was to be "for the paymeht of all of said bonds
issued to the company as provided for in this act, and for the
interest accruing on said bonds." It was, as has been seen, to
begin as soon as the bonds were put into the hands of the company, for it was then and by that act that the liability of the
company under the statute was created. At that time no one
but the State could be interested in the se6urity, and at that
time clearly the lien operated only as security for the payment
of the loan of the bonds. This could be made by a return of
the bonds themselves, or in any other way provided in the
statute. A return of the bonds to the State would not technically pay the bonds, but it would pay the loan, and thus cancel the obligation of the company to the State and discharge
the lien. This brings us to the inquiry whether provision was
made in the statute for payment by the company in some other
way than by taking up the bonds from the several h lders
thereof, and if so, to whom and how.
The obligation under the statute is to pay the bonds and the
interest accruing thereon. This clearly means payment of the
bonds and the interest in the way provided by the statute, if
there be any. As the liability of the company to pay at all
grows out of the statute, it follows that if a particular mode of
payment is provided for in the statute, payment in that mode
is all the company can be required to make. Looking then to
the statute, we find that provision is made in one part for the
payment of interest and the enforcement of that obligation of
the company, and in other parts for the payment of principal.
1. As to interest. § 5 makes it the duty of a company to
deposit in the Bank of Tennessee, at least fifteen days before
coupons for interest on any of the bonds issued to that company fall due, an amount of money sufficient to pay such
interest, including exchange and necessary commissions, or satisfactory evidence that it has been paid or provided for. The
Bank of Tennessee was established by the act of January 19,
1838, "in the name and for the benefit of the State," and "the
faith and credit of the State " were "pledged" for its support.

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

The State was its only stockholder, and was, entitled to all the
profits of its business. It was the fiscal agent of the State, and
was practically'the treasury in which all public moneys were
kept. The state treasurer held none of the State funds in his
own hands, but deposited them, all in the bank, where they
were placed to the credit of the "Treasurer of Tennessee," and
subject to his checks, drawn according to law, and countersigned by the comptroller. Other accounts connected with the
financial business of the State were kept in the books, of the
bank, headed, "Interest on State Bonds," "Interest paid on
State Bonds," "Railroad Companies for Interest," and otherwise. The entries made in the books showed, the amount
which each railroad company paid in for interest, but the payments were all passed to the credit of the State, either in the
treasurer's general account, or in the account headed "Interest
on State Bonds." The bank paid the interest on all State
bonds without reference -to the purpose for which they were
issued. It had correspondents in New York and Philadelphia
through whom. such payments were made, and these agents
took up the coupons when presented and forwarded them to
the bank, by which they were handed over to the proper State
officers. The moneys paid in by railroad companies for interet
were sent with other moneys of the State to the New York and
Philadelphia agents, by whom they were paid out upon coupons, no distinction being made as to the different kinds of
bonds. The agents kept no accounts with the companies, and
neither they nor the bank knew what bonds had been issued to
any particular company. Nb attempts were made, either by
the bank or its agents, to classify .or identify coupons, when
paid, as being coupons from bonds issued to one company or
another.
In the books of the t-easurer of State there was an account
headed "Bank of Tennessee," the reverse of that kept by the
bank in the name of the treasurer. There was als6 an account
headed "Tnterest on Capitol Bonds," in which was shown the
interest paid on bonds issued for the State house. Besides this
there was an account headed "Interest on Internal Improvement Bonds," showing the gross amount paid out on such

OCTOBER TERAM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, but not by whom the money was furnished, nor the
numbers or character of the bonds on which the interest was
paid. No separate accounts were kept in the treasurer's books
with the different railroad companies, and, with the exception
of the distinction between capitol and internal- improvement
bonds on his books, the treasurer paid no attention to the different kinds of bonds, but treated all as equally the obligations
of the State. This was the way in which the business was done
by all the companies, the bank, and the treasurer of the State,
as long as the bank was in operation.
Under these circumstances it is difficult to see how a deposit
in the bank by . company of the money to pay interest can be
treated otherwise than as, within the meaning of the statute,
the payment by the company of the accruing interest on the
bonds, which the company had bound itself to make. The deposit was made to enable the- State to meet its own obligations.
It was not placed, neither by the statute was it required to be
placed, to the credit of the company, but of the'State. The
bank did not take the money for the company, but for the
State, and consequently the deposit was accepted and kept as
and for State funds. Neither the bank nor the State was
bound, either to the companies or to the bondholders, to use
the deposits made by a particular company to ay the interest
on bonds issued to that company. The bank is nowhere made
by the law the agent of the company. It was to take, keep,
and pay out according to law, for the State, all moneys deposited or set apart for the liquidation of accruing interest. If
the deposits made by the various companies were not enough
for that purpose, it was the duty of the comptroller to draw
from the treasury, on his own official warrant, a sufficient
amount to make up the deficiency. No special provision was
made in the statute as to the way in which coupon-holders were
to be paid. That was all left to be determined by such regulatibns as might from time to time be adopted for the government of State officers and State agencies in the payment of State
debts. The money when deposited became at once the money of
the State, and was in no way thereafter subject to the control of
the depositor. When used to pay maturing interest, it was

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

paid by, and on behalf of, the State, through its own agencies,
to redeem its own pledges of faith to the holders of its own
obligations. The company performed its whole duty to the
State when it deposited in bank, subject to the control of the
State, a sufficient amount of money to meet the interest which
was to accrue on the State obligations fifteen days thereafter,
and the expenses incident to such payment. It is true an option
was given the company to pay the interest instead of making
the deposit, but this was clearly intended for the convenience
of the company, and not because of any obligation the company
was supposed to be under to the bondholders. Payment,
therefore, by a company, into the bank, of a sufficient amount
of money to enable the State to meet its accruing interest, was,
and was intended by the legislature to be, not onlya payment
of the interest on the bonds by the company, but the payment,
and the only payment, of interest the lien created by the statute
was to secure. To hold otherwise would be to decide that the
legislature, while providing for a loan of the bonds of the State
to corporations engaged in works of internal improvement,
required the corporations to secure by liens on their own propeity, not only the payment to the State of the interest on the
loan, but also the redemption by the State of its own pledges of
faith to the future holders of the State bonds that were lent.
Certaiply no such construction will be given to the statute unless it is imperatively demanded; and when provision is made
in express terms for a payment to the State, no second payment of the same debt will be presumed to have been in the
contemplation of the parties,.in the absence of some positive
requirement to the contrary. The lien must be held to be
for the security of the payment which is expressly provided for
and no other.
But the correctness of this view of the statute is made still
more apparent by another important provision of the same § 5,
to the effect that if a company failed to deposit the interest at
the time required, or furnish the -necessary evidence that payment of the interest had been made or otherwise provided fQr,
the governor should appoint a receiver to take possession, and
,un and manage the railroad of the company until a sufficient

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

sum was realized from the earnings to discharge such "unpaid
interest." The- failure of a company to make its deposit did
not relieve the State from the obligation to keep its faith and
pay the interest to its bondholders at maturity. Consequently,
the "unpaid interest" here referred to must have been the interest for which a deposit had not been made, and this clearly
implies that the deposit was the payment which the lien was
intended to secure. Interest on the lent bonds deposited for
was paid, within the meaning of the statute, and that not deposited for was unpaid. A receiver was to be appointed, and
possession taken, only when there was default on the part of
the company in making its deposit. Non-payment of interest
by the State, after the deposit, created no such default. As
the statutory remedy for the enforcement of the statutory lien
must be presumed to have been intended -to be commensurate
with the- lien itself, and this remedy was confined to cases of
default in making deposits, there cannot be a doubt that it was
the understanding of the legislature that a deposit for interest
was a payment of interest on the bonds, so far as the company
was concerned, and released the company as well as its proparty from all further liability to the State, or to any one else,
which had been assumed for interest. The pledge of State faith
for the performance of all State obligations under the act constituted the only security of the bondholders for the prompt
payment of the interest due to them. .The liens on the property of the companies stood only as security for the payment
of the interest on the bonds to the State.
2. As to the principal. This is provided for in three ways:
1, by the establishment of a sinking fund; 2, by foreclosure if
the company failed to pay the bonds at maturity; and 3, by
foreclosure and proceedings against guilty stockholders, before
maturity, if an issue of the bonds was obtained by fraud,
or contrary to the provision of the act.
The sinking fund was first established by § 7 of the original
act, which required each company, at the end of five years
after the completion of its road, to set apart annually one per
centum of the amount of bonds issued to such company, and
use it in the purchase of bonds of the State of Tennessee, which

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds the company was to jay into the treasury of the State,
taking a receipt therefor, and, as between the State and the
company, the bonds so 1paid in were to be a credit on the bonds
issued. The bonds paid in, and the accruing interest thereon,
were to be held and used by the State as a sinking fund for
the payment of the bonds issued to the company. If in this
way a company re-purchased and paid in any of the bonds issued to it, they were to be cancelled. Should a company fail
to comply with these provisions, it was to be proceeded against,
as in § 5, for a failure to pay, or deposit for, interest. This
provision was changed by the act of 1856 soas to increase the
annual payments to two per cent. on the amount of the issue
of bonds, and to require them to be made in money, and to
begin at the end of five years after the dates of the several
issues. The money, when paid into thQ treasury, was t&be invested by a board of sinking fund commissioners in bonds of
the State, and all accruing interest was to be reinvested in like
securities. If a company failed to comply with these provsions of the amending act, it was to be proceeded against as
for a default in the payment of the bonds at maturity under
§ 6 of the act of 1852. Under'the statutes of 1852 and 1S56
the companies were not released from their obligations'to provide semi-annually for the payment of. the accruing interest on
the entire issue of bonds. That was still to be kept up, notwithstanding the debt of the company to the State had been
reduced by the annual payments required by §7.
By the act of 1860 other changes were made, which increased the amount of anhual payments to two and one-half
per cent. on the original issues, and allowed them to be nade
in money, or in bonds of a like character with those issued to
the company, at their face value. If paid in money, the sinking fund commissioners were to invest it immediately in bonds
of a like character with those issued to the company, and have
them cancelled. By this act also the company was released
from the obligation under the act of 1852 to provide for the
interest on the whole issue of bonds, and required to deposit
only for that which w;ould accrue on the amount of bonds
"unpaid" at the time the interest 'fell due. *What was here

OCTOBER TERM, iss4.
Opinion of the Court.

meant by the word "unpaid" is shown by §§ 1, 2, and 9 of the
act, which provide that all sinking fund payments, in money
or bonds, made before January 1, 1860, with the accruing interest thereon to that date, "shall be passed directly to the
credit of the party having so paid the same, and be a release
to said party for that amount of the debt due by them to the
State of Tennessee." The Comptroller of the State was also
required to open and keep a regular account with each company, charging it with the total amount of bonds originally
issued to such company, and crediting it with the amount of
the sinking fund paid. It was also made his duty to furnish
to the Treasurer of State a statement of the amount due by
each company on the first days of June and December in every
year, "that he may know how much interest each company
has to pay," that is, deposit, "as now provided by law, on the
amount of bonds unpaid at the time said interest falls due, and
not on the original'amount issued to . . . said company."
Act of 1860, §§ 8, 9.
While it is true that neither the act of 1856 nor that of 1860
can change any contracts the companies may have made with
bondholders under the act of 1852 before their passage, they
may be resorted to in aid of construction to show what had
been the legislative understanding, for a long series of years,
of the meaning of the words "payment of said bonds and the
accruing interest thereon," as used in the original act.
The provision of § I7is that the company shallpay the bonds
purchased into the State tredsury, and that for the purchased
bonds so paid in a receipt shall be given and a credit allowed,
as between the State and the company, on the bonds issued.
Thus the company was required to make a payment to the
State, and for this payment the State was to give a credit on
the bonds. This clearly implies that the loan of the bonds
was to create a debt on the bonds by the company to the
State, and that this debt was to be discharged pro tanto on the
payment annually into the State treasury of the amount required by the sinking fnd.section. If there were nothing else
in the statute, no one would doubt that the payment of the
bonds which the company was required to make was a pay-

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

ment to the State for the bonds at the times and in the manner provided.
It is contended, however, that, as the credit to be secured by
these payments was only "as between the State and said
company," the liability of the company to the bondholders
is not affected by what may be done by and with the State.
This would be true if there were any such liability to the bondholders, but the very point to which our inquiries are now
directed is as to whether or not that liability exists. The
phrase relied on and quoted above is undoubtedly suggestive
of some other liability of the company on the bonds than one
to the State, but'it does not of itself create such a liability.
If it exists at all, it must be by virtue of some other provision of the statute. As has already been seen, there is
but one debt, and whatever pays that debt, cancels the obligations of the company upon the bonds. Whenever, therefore, it appears that payment of the bonds must be made
to one, the idea of a debt on the bonds to another is excluded. Here a .payment to the State is absolutely required.
This obligation to pay is express, and has not been .left to implication. The provision is that the sinking-fund bonds must
be bought and paid *inat the appointed times and to the pre-.
scribed amount. If this is not done, the payment is to be enforced by putting the "railroad of the company into the hands
of a receiver, and running and managing it until the requisite
amount of money is realized by the State from the earnings.
Under the act of 1856 the paymenits were required to be made
in money, and irl case of default proceedings for foreclosure and
sale were to be instituted to collect the amount to be Paid, )as
in cases of non-payment of bonds at maturity. If the statutes
of 1852'and 1856 stood alone, it would be clear to*our minds
that payments into the sinking fund were to be treated as
release 1ro tanto of all-the liability of the company on, or on
account of, the bonds. But the act of 1860 shows, beyond-l0
question, that such was the legislative understanding at that
time of the operation of this provision of the original act. It
is there declared in positive language that by the loan of the
bonds a debt was incurred by the company to the State,- and

OCTOBER TER1, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

that payments to the sinking fund should release and discharge
the companies pro tanto from their liability on that debt.
It is argued, however, that as these payments under all the
statutes were to be held and used by the State as a sinking
fund for the ultimate redemption of the issued bonds themselves from the several holders thereof, the obligation of the
company to pay the bonds would not be discharged in that
way; and some remarks of this court in the Sinking Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 725, are cited as authority to that effect.
The decision in that case was that the contributions to the
sinking f nd then under consideration did not pay. the debts of
the several companies by which the contributions were made,
because that fund was established, not to secure the payment
of the bonds of the United States which had been lent to the
companies, but the repayment to the United States, in the
manner and at the time required by law, of "the amount of
said bonds so issued and delivered to said company, together
with the interest thereon which shall have been paid by the
United States." But here the sinking fund is to be held and
used by the State, not to discharge the debt of the company to
the State, but that of the State to its bondholders. It was
established not to secure the State, but to enable the State to
pay its own debts at maturity. In this way all payments made
by the companies to the State on account of the principal of
the bonds were set apart and laid by under investment, so that
at the appointed time they might be used by the State to redeem its own obligations. The fund in the treasury belonged
to the State, and was not in any manner subject to the control
of the company, or to be used to pay its debt. That debt was
discharged by the payments which under the law were put
into the fund. All payments out of the sinking fund were
to be made by the State on its own debt. and not on the
debt of the company. A sinking fund may be, and generally
is, intended as a cumulative security for the payment of the
debt with which it is connected. In this case the debt to
which it belongs is that of the State, and not that of the
company, which was paid so as to furnish the State with the
means to create such a fund.

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

Reference was made in the argument to the way in which,
under the act of 1852, and perhaps that of 1856, the sinking
fund was to be kept and invested, and it was urged that the
fund must have been intended as security for the payment of
the bonds to the bondholders by the company, because if a
bond issued to a particular company was bought by that company and paid into the fund, it was cancelled, while all other
bonds were kept alive to be held and used by the State to take
up at maturity the bonds issued to the company which had
not been so paid in. The argument seems to be, that, as the
purchase of a bond issued to a particular company, and its
payment into the fund by that company, would of itself be a
payment of that bond by the company both to the State and
the holder, the special'provision for the cancellation of sucha
bond, while others are to be kept alive, is indicative of a purpose not to cancel the obligation of the company under the
statute until the company had not only provided the State
with the means to take up all the other outstanding bonds,
but until the State had itself performed its own obligations
and actually taken them up. This is undoubtedly a circumstance to be considered in determining what the payment was
-which the State intended the company should make, and for
the security of which the ]ien was created; but it is not to our
minds enough to overcome the many provisions'found in the
other parts of the statute, which so clearly show that there
was to be but one creditor of the company on account of the
contemplated loans of the bonds, and that creditor the State.
Whatever, therefore, satisfies that creditor, under the law,
satisfies the debt. We cannot accede to the proposition, so
much relied on by the counsel for the bondholders, that on
putting out the bonds the company occupied towards the bondholder the relation of principal debtor, and the State that of
surety only, until the company made the prescribed payments
to the State, and that after these payments were made the relations of the parties changed, so that thereafter the State was
principal and the company a surety only. The debt of the
company, whatever it was, continued the same in its relation to
all the parties from the time it was created until it was paid.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in the statute which contemplates any change
in the obligations of the parties toward each other. There
may have been no good reason for keeping some of the State
securities paid into the fund alive, and directing that others
should be cancelled, inasmuch as all were to reprisent State
debts, for. which the State was equally bound; but that was
the will of the legislature, and it was consequently so enacted.
Afterward this policy was changed, and all .State bonds, of
whatever character, were cancelled by mutilation as soon as
they were paid in, or bought for the sinking fund. Act of
1860. In this way all danger of a misappropriation of securities in the sinking fund was avoided. As bonds issued to
railroad companies under the act could alone be used for the
investment of the fund under this act, their cancellation did
not affect the liability of the several companies thereon to the
State, because that was to continue until payment was made
to the State by the company to which it was issued. Payment
by the State to the bondholder did not discharge.the liability
of the company on the bond so paid.
The provision for a foreclosure in case of a failure of the
company to pay at maturity the bonds issued to it is found in
§ 6, which makes it the duty of the governor, when such a
default occurs, to notify the attorney general, who must thereupon file a bill against the company in the name of the State
of Tennessee in the Chancery or Circuit Coirt of the proper
county. Upon the filing of this bill, the court is authorized to
make such judicial orders, including the appointment of a
receiver, and a sale of the road and all the property of the
company, as may be necessary and proper to secure the payment of the bonds, with the interest thereon, and to indemnify
the State against loss by their issae. We see no special significance, so far as the present question is concerned, in the
direction of the attorney general to file the bill in'the name of
the State. Without such a direction there might be doubt
whether the suit to be instituted should be in the name of the
attorney general or of the State. It was probably unimportant whether the one form or the other was adopted, for, in any
event, the object would be to enforce the obligation of the

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

company and collect the money which was due. The legislature, however, saw fit to avoid all doubt on this subject, and
to direct that the proceeding should be in the name of the
State. Taken by itself, therefore, this section adds little, .if
anything, to the other evidence in the statute as to who the
creditor was for whose benefit the money was to be collected.
The proceeds of the foreclosure were to be used to pay the
bonds, within the meaning of the statute, and also to indemnify
the State against loss. To whom. the payment was to be
made must be determined by looking elsewhere. There is
nothing to show that the author of the statute had the security
of the bondholder in his mind when drafting this section, any
more than when drafting the others. Payment of the bonds
meant in this section what it did in the others; no more, no
less. It is true that here payment of the bonds and indemnity
to the State are both spoken of, but payment of the bonds
through a proceeding for foreclosure might not be enough td
indemnify the State against all loss incident to the loan of the
bonds. There might be expenses incurred in the foreclosure
which would not be reimbursed by a simple payment of the
amount of the bonds. Indemnity of this and a like character
was evidently the purpose 6f this particular provision in the
section. It was, in the language of counsel for the bondholders, to secure the State against "a money loss

.

.

in the

way of counsel charges, or receiver's charges, or betterment
expenses, or debts not included in the words 'to secure the
payment of said bonds.'"
Proceedings for foreclosure before the maturity of the bonds,
and the liability of guilty stockholders in case of issues of
bonds obtained by fraud, or contrary to the provisions of the
act, are provided for in § 13. This section makes it the duty
of the governor, as soon as he receives reliable information of
such fraud or irregularity, to notify the attorney-general, who
must at once institute a suit in the Circuit or Chancery Court
of the proper county. In such a suit the court is given
authority to order a sale of the road, and the property and assets of the company, or so much thereof as may be necessary.
When such a sale is made, the proceeds are to be paid into the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Conrt.

treasury and invested by the comptroller in "the same stocks,
creating a sinking fund, as provided for in the seventh section." The guilty company is also made .to forfeit all its rights
and privileges under the act, and its guilty stockholders are
made individually liable "for the payment of the bonds so
fraudulently obtained by such company, and for all other
losses that may fall upon the State in consequence of the commission of any other fraud by such company." This is manifestly for the benefit of the State alone. The bondholder can
have no special interest in such a proceeding. His rights are
in no way affected by the fraud of the company in obtaining
the bond he owns. The State is his debtor, and he has no
right to call for the money owing to him until the maturity of
his bond, which will not be until thirty or may be forty years
after the commission of the fraud which gave the State the
right to call at once on the company and its implicated stockholders for the payment of the bond he holds. It will hardly
be contended that it was intended to make the stockholder
individually liable to the bondholder, yet his liability is for
"the payment of the bonds ".just as is that of the company.
If in his case payment of the bonds does not mean payment to
the bondholder, it does not in that of the company. The language of the act is the same in both cases, and there is nothing whatever to show that as to one it. meant one thing, and
as to the other something else. The evident purpose of this
section was to give the State the power, immediately on the
discovery of a fraud, to demand of the company '' payment of
the bonds," that is, payment of an amount of money equal to
that called for by the bonds, and a remedy at once against the
company and its implicated stockholders for the enforcement
of such a payment in case it -was not voluntarily made. The
money when collected was to be set apart and invested "as a
sinking fund for the payment of the bonds" by the State.
By § 14 it was made the duty of the governor to appoint an
agent for the State, to attend all sales, made either under § 6
or § 13, to protect the interest of the State, and, if necessary
for that purpose, to buy the road or property in the name of
the State. If bought, it was to be put in the hands of a

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

receiver to manage and run in the way provided in § 5,until
the next meeting of the general assembly: The receiver was
to settle his accounts with the comptroller semi-annually, but no
directions were given in relation to the manner in which the
net earnings were to be used in case of a sale under § 6. He
was to take possession of "the said road and property and use
the same as provided for in the fifth section," and, on the settlement of his accounts with the comptroller, the balances
remaining in his hands would necessarily go into the treasury,
there to be dealt with as the general assembly should direct.
If a purchase was made by the State under § 13, the presumption would be that the earnings must go into the sinking fund,
as such was the provision made for the proceeds of a sale to
another purchaser, but all that would necessarily be under the
control of the general assembly when it met.
Having thus gone over the other sections, we are prepared to
consider § 12 in its bearing on the question which is now under
discussion. This section reserves to the State in express terms
the right to enact "all such laws as may be deemed necessary to
protect the interest of the State, and to secure the State against
all loss in consequence of the issuance of bands under the provisions of this act, but .in such manner as not to impair the
vested rights of the stockholders of the companies." This reservation includes, and was undoubtedly intended to include, full
power in the State, as against every one except stockholders,
to do whatever might be deemed necessary by the legislature,
with the lien reserved for the security of the obligations
assumed by the companies. Nothing is said about bondholders. It will, of course, be con'ceded that if bondholders
actually had any-vested right or interest as against the State
in the security created by the statute, nothing could be done
under this section by the State to,impair that right. But the
same was probably true of stockholders, and the special care
taken to preserve the rights of stockholders, without referring
to bondholders at all, raises a strong presumption that it was
never intended to vest in them any right which would interfere
in the remotest degree with the free exercise of all the power of
the State to deal with the borrowing companies in reference to-

OCTOBER TERM, 18S4.
Opinion of the Court.

the bonds and the security created therefor, just as might, under
any circumstances that should arise, be deemed most for the
interest of the State and the companies, they being the only
parties to the contract of the companies that were to be at all
interested in what was to be done. As has been seen, the bonds
to be issued were on their face to bind only the State. At
that time repudiation of State faith was not thought of. No
purchaser of State bonds ever asked whether anything else than
the faith of a State was pledged for their payment promptlyat
maturity. Repudiation was looked upon as dishonorable, and
something that would never occur. Security to the State
against loss by the loan of its bonds which were provided for
must, therefore, be presumed to have been the sole purpose of
the liens which were to be created on the issue of the bonds.
Bondholders were never thought of in this connection, for they
had the security of the faith of the State, and could not have
been supposed to look for anything else. Hence, this reservation of power by the State was made broad enough to allow
the State to deal with the securities which were taken from the
companies at its own discretion, and in any way that might be
deemed just. No such power could be exercised if the bondholders held an interest in the securities adverse to the State.
Under these circumstances this section is be looked upon as excluding any such possible intent, and operating as a standing
notice to all who might, from time to time, become the holders
of any of the lent bonds, that the payment of the bonds, and
the interest thereon, which the several companies bound themselves for, was to be made to the State, and not to them, and
that the security which was taken by the State was for the
performance of this obligation, and might be dealt with by the
State in any manner its own legislature shduld direct or provide. This reservation of power is entirely inconsistent with
the idea. of a debt from the company to the bondholders on
account of the bonds; and, if there could have been any
doubt on this subject without § 12, there certainly is none
'with it.
This disposes of all the cases; for the State, in the exercise of
its legislative discretion, has released each of the companies

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, T.

whose property is involved in these suits from all its obligations
growing out of the original loans, and has cancelled the liens
created for their security. The companies have either voluntarily paid their debts to the satisfaction of the State, or the
State has foreclosed the lien which was reserved, and sold the
property, free of that incumbrance, either to the present defendants, or to those under whom they claim.
Some reliance was placed, in the argument for the bondholders, upon the legislative history of the passage of the act of
1852, which showed an offer and rejection of certain proposed
amendments, and also upon the construction which had been
put on the act by certain State officers of high authority in the
administration of the public affairs, but we have deemed it unnecessary to add to the length of this opinion by particular
reference to that branch of the argument, because, as we think,
the statute contains, within itself unmistakable evidence of its
meaning. The same is true of the reference which has been
made to other statutes of Tennessee, and to statutes of the
States and of the United States upon the same general subject.
This statute differs in its phraseology from some, and perhaps
all, of the others, but its own language fhrnishes all the aid
which is required for its true interpretation.
The decree in each of the cases is affirmed.
, dissenting.
MP.. JUSTICE H
I am of opinion, that while the object of the statutes in question was to protect- the State against liability, they were, also,
designed to create a lien for the payment of the bonds themselves, by whomsoever held. That lien, so far as the holders of
bonds were concerned, could not be discharged, except by payment of the interest and principal, according to the terms of
the bonds, and in the mode prescribed by the statute under
which they were issued. For these reasons, I am compelled to
withhold my assent to the opinion and judgment.
M . JusTicE MArHEws and MR. JUsTIci BLATOHFORD took
no part in these decisions.
VOL. Cxiv--45

