OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

for the review of which the writs of error were sued out are not
final judgments. The judgment in each case is that the judgment of the State. District Court "be, and the same is hereby,
rev:ersed with costs, with directions to the Superior Court of
Los Angeles County to enter judgment upon the findings for
',the plaintiff as prayed for in his complaint."
That judgment is final for the purposes of a writ of error to
this court, which terminates the litigation between the parties on
the merits of the case, so that, if there should be an affirmance
here, the court below would have nothing to do but to execute the judgment it had already rendered. Bostwick v.
Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3, and the numerous cases there cited.
The judgments in these cases are of that character. The
litigation is ended, hnd the rights of the .parties on the merits
have been fully determined. Nothing remains to be done but
to require the inferior court to perform the ministerial act of
entering the judgments in that court which have been ordered.
This is but carrying the judgment of the Supreme Court which
has been rendered into execution. Nothing is left to the
judicial discretion of the court below. The cases relied on In
support of the motions to dismiss were all judgments or decrees.
of reversal, with leave for. further proceedings in the inferior
court. Such judgments are not final, because something yet
remains to be done to complete the litigation.
The motion in each of the cases is over?.uled.

BUTTERWORTH, Commissioner, v. HILL & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - FOR THE
DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
Argued March 9, 1885.-Decided March 30, 1885.

The provision in q 739 that no suit shall be brought in a Circuit or District
Court of the United States against an inhabitant of the United'States, by
original process, in any other district than that of which he is an inhabit-

BUTTERWORTH v. I HILL.1
,
I

129'

Opinion of the Court.
ant or in which he may be'found at the time of serving the writ. applies to.
suits in equity under §4915 Rev. Stat. to procure the issue of letters patent
for an invention after rejection of the application therefor.
The official residence of the Commissioner of Patents is at Washington, in the
"
District of Columby.a.
A written acceptance by the Commissioner of Patents at Washington of service
,of a subpcenaissued by the Circuit Court'of the United States for the D~istrict of Vermont, on a bill in equity filed in that court, "to have the Oame
effect as if duly served on me by a proper'officer," has no other effect than
the regular service by a proper officer would have had, and' waives no objection to'ursdiction, and gives no consent to be sued away fromp his resi-dence or from the seat of government-'
A notice by the Commjs$ioner pf Patents to coonsel that he has accepted ser-"
vice of a subpoena i1imanner above described, and has received a copy.of
the bill, and that he shall not appear in defence, notifies him that further
proceedings will be taken without consent of the commissioner to the jurisdiction of the court.

Bill in equity originally commenced against Mi. :Marble as
Commissioner of Patents. Mr. Butterworth, 'his successor,
subsequently appeared below, and brought the cause, here oPi
appeal. The cause' was argued here on its merits, and on the
jurisdictional question on which it turned. The facts as to the
latter are stated in the opinion of the court.
_3r. Solicitor General [Mlr. Frank T. Brown -alsb filed a
brief] for appellant.
3t. William, Edgar'Simondsfor appellees.'
M.

CHIEF

JusTcF,WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from 'a decree on a bill in-equity filed iA
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Vermont against the Commissioner of Patents, under §4916.
Rev. Stat. That section is as follows:
"SEC. 49T5. Whenever a patent on dpplication is ref'ed..
either by the Commissioner .of, Patents or- by the- $upreme.,
Court of the. District of Columbia upon appeal from th Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill- in equity;'
and the court having cognizance thereof, oii notice t6 adverse .
parties and other due proceedings had, 'may adjudge that such,
VOL. c

-rv-9

130,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent for
his invention as specified in his claim, or for any part thereof,
as the facts in the case may appear. And such adjudication,
if it be in favor of the right of the applicant, shall authorize
the Commissioner to issue such patent on the applicant filing
in the Patent Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise
complying with the requirements of law. In all cases where
there is no opposing party, a copy of the bill shhl be served on
the Commissioner; and all the expenses of the proceeding shall
be paid by the applicant, whether the final decision is in his
favor or not."
'Oa the filing of the bill, a snbpcena was issued commanding
the "Commissioner of Patents of the United States of Amer'
ica" to appear before the court in Vermont and answer. On
the 18th of October, 1883, the Commissioner made the following indorsement on the writ:
D. C., October 18th, 1883.
I hereby accept service of the within subpcena, to have the
same effect as if duly served on me by a proper officer, and I
do hereby acknowledge the receipt of a copy thereof.
"E. M. MARBLE,
"WsHrGToN,

" Com'r. of Patents.

(Office of Commissioner of Patents. Received Oct. 18, 1883.)"
And afterwards, and on said 23d day of October, A. D.
1883, a letter from the Commissioner of Patents was filed,
which said letter is in the words and figures following:
SDEPART=-

OF THE INTERIoR,

UITED STATES PATENT OFFICE,

D. C., October 18,1883.
"Siz: I am in receipt of your letter of the 16th instant, enclosing copy of a bill of complaint entitled Hill & Prentice et
al.'v. The Commissioner of Patents of the United States of
America, in the United States Circuit Court for the District of
Vermont, praying that said court direct the Commissioner of
Patents to issue a patent to the assignees of Hill & Prentice
WASHINGTON,

BUTTERWORTH v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

for the invention disclosed and claimed in their application
filed in this'office March 30, 1880, for an iniprovement in milk
coolers; also a subpoena to appear and answer to said bill on
the 5th proximo and a certified copy of said subpoena. I herewith return the subpoena, service accepted, and have to inform
you that' I shall not' appear in defence in said bill.
"Very Respectfully,
"E.M . MARBLE, Commissioner.
f"MR. W. E. Simo~s, Har ford, Con."
No other service of process was made on the Commissioner
and he made no other appearance in the cause than such as
may b6 implied from his acceptance of service and his letter as
above. In due course of proceeding a decree was entered adjudging that "1Samuel Hill and Benjamin B. Prentice, as inventors, and the.Vermont Machine Company, as assignee of said.
inventors, are entitled to have issued to them letters patent
as phayed for in*the petiti6n and bill of complaint."
N~o one wias'made defendant to the bill except the Commissioner' of Patents; and Hill, Prentice and the Machine Coin-'
pany, the complainants, were all citizens of Vermont. Benjamin Butterworth,-the Commissioner of Patents, took this
appeal, and the only question presented under it for our consideration is whether the Circuit, Court of the -District of Verso. as to bind the Commissioner b the
mont had jurisdiction
was rendered.
decree which
It is contended that the Supreme Court' of the District of
Columbia has exclusive jurisdictibn of suits- against the (ommissioner brought under this, section of' the Revised. Statutes.
In the view we takeof this case, however, that question need
not be decided. By §.739 Rev. Stat., as well as by the act of
March 3,.1875, ch. 137, § 1, 18 Stat. 470,,it is prdvided-in sub-,
stance that, with' some exceptions which do not apply to this,
case, "no, civil suit shall .be brought before either of said courts
.[the Circuit or District Courts of the United States] against an
inhabitant of the United States, by any original procesg, in Any
other district than that of Which he is an inhabitant, or in which
he.may be found at the time of servingdthe writ." We enter

-

OCTOBER, TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

'taiu no 'doubt that' this statute applies to suits brought 'under
§ 4915. The Applicant is to have his remedy under that section by bill in equity, and by the adjudication "of the court
having cognizance thereof, on hotice to adverse parties and
,other due proceedings had." .A bill in equity implies a suit in
equity, with process and parties. The prayer for process is
one of the component parts of the structure of a bill, and its
purpose .is to compel the defendant to appear and abide .the
d~termination of the court on the subject-matter of the Jroceeding. Story, Eq. Il., § 44.
The bill in this ,case was filed against the Commissioner
alone, and it -does not appear that he was an inhabitant of the
district of Vermont. The Pat6ntOffice is in the Department
of the Interior, Rev.-Stat., § 475, which is one of the Executive
Departments of the Governmentat the seat of government in
the District of Columbia. Rev. Stat., , 437. The Commis-.
sioner of Patents is by law located in the Patent Office. Rev.
-Stat., § 476. His official residence is, therefore, at Washington, in the District of Columbia.
The sibpcena in this case was delivered to him in the District of Columbia, and his acceptance of service was made there.
That is apparent from the face of his indorsement and the letter which was written afterwards, and filed in the'cause, undouitedly as pr6of of a delivery of a copy of the bill which the
law req4uired should be served on him. Both the iidorsement
and the letter purport to have been written at Washington,
and the letter in the Patent' Office. Unless, therefore, the
acceptance of service us indorsed on' the writ is to be treated
as a: Voluntary appearance'by the Commissioner in the court in
Vermont, without objection to the jurisdiction, the case stands
as-it would if the process had been actually served on him in
the District of Columbia by some competent officer. The Circuit Court was of opinion that, by his acceptance of 6ervice the
Commissioner waived all objection to the jurisdiction and consented to be sued away from the seat of government and from
his residence. 'In this we think there was error. The fair
meaning of the indorsement on the writ is that the Commissioner admits the service with the same effect.it would have if

'DETROIT RAILWAY- CO.v: GUTHARD.

133

Syllabus.

made by an officer in the District of Columbia. No appearance is thereby entered in the cause. Service of the subpoena
in the District is acknowledged, but nothing more. In. the
letter which followed the indorsement of service, both counsel
and the court were informed that the Commissioner declined
to appear. The parties proceeded, therefore, at their own risk
and Without the consent of the defendant to the jurisdiction of
the court. Such being the case, we are of opinion that the..
court was without jurisdiction and had no authority to enter
the decree which has been appealed from. The act of Congress exempts a defendant from suit in any districtof which
he is not an inhabitant, or in which he is not found at the time
of the service bf the:writ. It is an exemption which he may
waive, but unless waived he need not answer and will not be
bound by anything which may be done against him in his absence.. What is here said of course does not apply to cases
where the suit is brought and service is madeunder §§, 736, '37,.
and 738 of the Revised.Statutes.
Without considering any of the other questions which have
been presented in the argument, or which might be suggested
under the statute,
WTe reverse the decree of the Circuit Court and -remand the
cause, with instructions to dismiss the i1l withdot Y.erudicfor want ofjurisdiction.

DETROIT-CITY RAILWAY COMPANY v. GUTHARD.
ntT. ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted March 2, 1883.-Decided Match30, 1885.
The ju-isdiction of this court for the review of a judgment of the highest court
of a State depends on the dpeision -bythat court of one or more of the questions.specified in § 709 Rev. Stat. in the way ther'ein mentioned.
If it does not appear affirmatively that the Federal question raised here was
raised below, and was decided, or that its decision was, necessary to the
judgment rendered, this 6ourt has no jurisdiction in error over the judg-

ment of such State court.

