OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the plaintiffs, believing that the judgment as recorded did not
conform to the 'finding, moved the court to amend it in that
particular. This motion the court entertained, but, being of
the opinion that the judgment had been correctly recorded,
refused the amendment which was asked. In this the court
acted judicially, and its judgment on the motion can no more
be reviewed by mandamus than that which was origirnally
entered in the cause.
The writ isdenied with costs.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPAINY v.
MILLER, Auditor.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued March 18, 19, 1835.-Decided April 6, 1885.
The provision in the act of the Legislature of West Virginia incorporating the
Covington & Ohio Railroad Company that "no taxation upon the property
of the said company shall be imposed by the State until the. profits of said
Company shall amount to ten per cent. on the capital" was personal to
that company and did not inhere in the property so as to pass by a transfer
of it.
Immunity from taxation conferred on a corporation by legislation is not a
franchise.
forgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S 217, quoted and affirmed.
A statute of West Virginia regulated sales under foreclosure of mortgages
by railroad companies, and provided that "such sale and conveyance shall
pass to the purchaser at the sale, not only the works and property of the
company, as they were at the time of making the deed of trust or mortgage,
but any works which the company may, after that time and before the sale,
have constructed ;" and that "upon such conveyance to the purchaser, the
said company shall ipso facto be dissolved ;" and further, that "said purchaser shall forthwith be a corporation" and "shall succeed to all such
franchises, rights and privileges . . . -aswould have been had
by the first company but for such sale and conveyance :" eld, (1) That
purchasers thus becoming a corporation derived the corporate existence and
powers of the corporation from this act. and were subject to general laws
as to corporations then in force; (2) That an immunity from taxation enjoyed by the former corporation was not embraced in the words of description in the act, and did not pass to the new corporation.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. MLLER. 177
Opinion of the Court.
This suit was begun by a bill in equity in a court of the
State of West Virginia against the auditor of that State to
restrain the collection of a tax, alleged to be illegal, on 4 ho
ground, that the plaintiff in error enjoyed an immunify from
taxation. Being decided against the claim of exemption, the
cause was brought here by writ of error. The grounds of the
claim and the other facts which make the federal question are
stated in the opinion of the court.
-Y'. 'T. G. .Robertson and 2l6.
plaintiff in error.,

George. F. Edmunds for

Xr. Cornelius C. WVatts, Attorney-Generai of West 'Virginia,
for defendant in error.
JUsTCE vMrTRnws delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings into review a final decree 'of the.
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of West Virginia dismissing the bill of complaint filed by .the plaintiff in error, the
error assigned being that that court gave effect to a statute of
the State alleged to be void, on the ground that it impaired
the obligation o a contract betweenthe plaintiff in error and
the State of West Virginia.
The statute thus drawn in question is an act of the Legis.
lature of West 'Virginia, passed March 7, 1879, subjecting the
property of the plaintiff in error in that State to taxation.
The contract alleged to be thus broken. by the State is one
of exemption from taxation, contained in the seventh section
'of an act of the Legislature of West Virginia, passed March 1,
1866, entitled "An Act to incorporate the Covington and Ohio
Railroad Company," and is in the following words: .
"7. The rate of charge by said company for passengers and
freight transported on the main line and branches of said railroad shall never exceed the highest allowed b law to other,
railroads in the State, and no discrimination shall be made in
such charges against any connecting railroad or canal company
chartered by the State, and no taxation upon the property of
the said company shall be imposed by the State until the profi§
XMa

voL. cxiv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion, of the Court.

of said company shall amount to ten per cent. on the capital of
the company."
The plaintiff in error, complainant below, alleging that it
was entitled to the benefit of this exemption by way of contract with the State, and that no profits had been made by it
upon its capital, prayed for an injunction -to restrain the appellee, the auditor of West Virginia, from proceeding under the
act of March 7, 1879, to assess and collect any tax upon its
property within the State.
The plaintiff in error became a party to the contract contained in the act of March 1, 1866, to incorporate the Covington
and Ohio Railroad Company, in the following manner. This
act was similar in its terms to one passed about the same date
by the General Assembly of the State of Virginia. Both had
in view the completion of a railroad from Covington, in Virginia, to some point on the Ohio River, the construction of
which had been undertaken by the State of Virginia as a public
work by its own means, but which was suspended, after an expenditure of several millions of dollars, in consequence of the
breaking out of the civil war in 1861. A portion of it was
within the territory that became West Virginia, and thenceforward that part of the work fell within the jurisdiction and
ownership of the new State. To provide for its completion
was the object of the act of March 1, 1866, to incorporate the
Covington and Ohio Railroad Company. That act did not, by
its terms, create a corporation, but authorized a future organization under it. It ceded to the company, when constituted
and certifiedas thereinafter provided, "all the rights, interest
and privileges of whatsoever kind, in and to the Covington and
Ohio Railroad and appurtenances thereunto- belonging, now
the property of the State of West Virginia, upon condition
that it shall within six months after its incorporailon, as provided in the tenth section of the act, commence, and within six
years complete, equip and operate a railroad," &c., as therein
described; and a failure to comply with this condition operated
to forfeit the title to the road, which should then revert to the
State.
The act also appointed commissioners on the part of the

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. MILLER. 179
Opinion of the Court.

State to act in conjunction with others appointed by the State
of Virginia, whose duty it was to offer the benefits of the charter
"for the acceptance of capitalists, so as to secure the speediest
and best construction, equipment and operation of said railroad." "To this end," it added, "they are empowered to
make a contract with any parties who shall give the best terms o
aud the most satisfactory assurances of capacity and responsibility, and to introduce into said contract any additional stipulationsJor-the benefit of the State and in furtherance of the
purposes -herein declared and not inconsistent with this act,
whicl.contract shall be, to all intents and purposes, as much a
p2r6-of-this charter as if the same had been herein included at
the time of the passage of this act." The certificate of these
commissioners of. the'due execution of such a contract, and the
organization of the company, should operate to confer upon
said company all the benefits of this charter, subject only to
the provisions of the Code of Virginia for the government of
internal improvement companies, so far as not inconsistent
with that act.
- On February 26, 186(, the. Legislature of West Virginia
passed an act to provide for the completion of a line or lines of
railroad from the ivaters of the Chesapeake to the Ohio River,
which -authorized the consolidation of the Covington and Ohio
Railroad Company, when organized under the act of March 1,
- 1866, with one or more of several other railroad. companies, including the West Virginia Central Railway Company; the
consolidated company to be known as the Chesapeake and
Ohio Railroad Company, and to be vested with "allthe rights,
privileges, franchises and property which may have been vested
in either company prior to the act of consolidation." It was
als6 thereby provided that the Virginia Central Railroad Company and the West Virginia Central Railway Company, or
either of them, "may contract with the Covington and Ohio
Railroad Commissioners for the construction of the railroad
'from Covington to the Ohio River, and in the event such contract be made, the said Virginia Central Railroad Company,
6r tle West Virginia Central Railway Company, shall be known
as -the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, and shall be

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

entitled to all the benefits of the charter of the Covington and
Ohio Railroad, and to all the rights, interests' and privileges
which by this act are conferred upon the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad Company when organized."
Accordingly, on'August 31, 1868, the Commissioners of
Virginia and of West Virginia entered into a contract with the
Virginia Central Railroad Company by which the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railroad Company was formed and under which it
was organized, and the same was approved, ratified and confirmed by an act of the Legislature of West Virginia, "confirming and amending the charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad Company, passed January 26, 1870." Among other
things, it was therein provided that the company might borrow such sums of money, at a rate of interest not exceeding
eight per cent. per annum, as might be necessary in addition
to the funds arising from stock subscriptions for the completion
of the road, and should-have power to execute a lien on its
property and resources to secure the payment of the principal
and interest of such loans; and the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company was thereby declared to be entitled to all the
benefits of the charter of the Covington and Ohio Railroad,
and to all the rights, interests, benefits and privileges, and be
subject to all the duties and responsibilities provided and
declared in the said contract and in the statutes therein
referred to.
In pursuance of these powers, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railrbad Company completed the contemplated line of railroad and
put the same in operation, not, indeed, strictly within the time
limited in the charter, but the forfeiture thereby incurred was
released by an act of the Legislature of West Virginia passed
February 20, 1877.
In the meantime, to raise the funds necessary to complete
the construction and equipment of the road, a large amount of
bonds had been issued by the company, secured by several
'deeds of trust, the particulars of which are fully set out in the
bill; and default in the payment of interest having occurred,
due proceedings for the foreclosure and sale of the property
embraced in the deeds of trust were prosecuted to final decrees

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. MILLER. 181
Opinion of the Court.
in the courts of Virginia and West Virginia; so that, in the
latter, all of the railroad and other property situate in that
State were brought to sale under a decree of the Circuit Court
for the County of Kanawha, in West Virginia, rendered on
December 18, 1877, and were sold and conveyed to the
purchasers, who, in pursuancq of the statute then in force applicable thereto, became a corporation under the name of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, the plaintiff in error
in these proceedings.
The statute 'under which these proceedings took plabe was
an*act of the Legislature of West Virginia passed February
18, 1871, relating to sales made under deeds of trust or mortgages by railroads or bther internal improvement companies in
that State, as amended by an act passed February 20, 1877,
extending its provisions to jtidicial sales.
It was provided by these acts that ''if a sale be made under
a deed of trust or mortgage executed by -a railroad or other internal improvement -company in this State, on all its works
and property, and there be a conveyance pursuant thereto,
such sale and conveyance, shall pass to the purchaser at the
sale, not only the works and property of the company, as they'
were at the time of making the deed of trust or mortgage, but
any works which the company may, after that time and before
the sale, have constructed, and all other property of which it-may
be possessed at the time of the sale, other than debts due to it.
Upon such conveyance to the purchaser, the said company shall
ipsofacto be dissolved. And the said purchaser shall forthwith
be a corporation by any name which may be set forth in said
conveyance, or in, any writing signed by him or them, and
recorded in the recorder's office of any county wherein the
property so sold, or any part thereof, is situated, or where said
conveyance is recorded.
"2. The corporation created by or in consequence of such sale
apd conveyance shall succeed to all such franchises, rights and
privileges and perform all such duties as would have been had,
or should have been performed by~the first company, but for
such sale and conveyance; save only that the corporation so
created shall not be entitled to debts due to the first company,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and shall not be liable for any debts of, or claims against, the
said first company, which may not be expressly assumed in
the contract of purchase; and that the whole profits of the
business done by such corporation shall belong to the said purchaser and his assigns. His interest in the corporation shall be
personal estate, and he, or his assigns, may create so many
shares of stock therein as he or they may think proper, not exceeding, together, the amount of stock in the first company at
the time of the sale, and assign the same in a book kept for
that purpose. The said shares shall thereupon be on the footing of shares in joint stock companies generally, except only
that the first meeting of the stockholders shall be held on such
day and at such place as shall be fixed by the said purchaser, of
which notice shall be published for four successive weeks in a
newspaper printed in each county in the State wherein said
corporation may do business."
These provisions are copied from the Code of Virginia of
1860, ch. 61, § 28, 29 and 31. This circumstance is material
to the case, as urged by the plaintiff in error, in view of the
provision of the first section of the act of the Legislature of
West Virginia of March 1, 1866, to incorporate the Covington
and Ohio Railroad Company, which provided for its future
organization as a corporation, "according to the provisions of
the Code of Virginia, second edition, for the government of
incorporated companies." It remains to be added that the
Legislature of West Virginia passed an act on January 31,
1879, to amend section 7 of the act to incorporate the Covington and Ohio Railroad Company, so as to omit from it altogether the clause containing the exemption from taxation.
Chap. 5 West Va. Acts, 1879.
That the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, by virtue
of its organization as a corporation under the act of March 1,
1866, became entitled to the exemption from taxation secured
by § 7 of that act, and that as a matter of contract, is not
denied or disputed. Whether the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway. Company succeeded to that right and immunity, is the
question to be determined.
It is quite clear that, as a contract originally entered into

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RATLWAY CO. v. MILLER.

183

Opinion of the Court.
between the State of West Virginia and the stockholders who
organized the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, under
the act of March 1, 1866, it was personal to that corporation,
and intended to benefit those who should be induced to subscribe to its stock. Every circumstance that is referred to for
the purpose of proving its nature as a contract, such as, that
the State had already sunk a large amount of money in an incomplete and therefore unprofitable public work, that it was
very desirous to induce private capitalists to finish its construction, and to that end was willing to cede to them the property
itself, and the franchises of a railroad connected with it, and
by way of further inducement, to exonerate the property in
their hands from all burdens of taxation until the investment
yielded a profit equal to ten per cent. upon the capital invested,
also prove that the only petsons in contemplation as beneficiaries of these privileges and immunities were those who
were willing to risk their money in an enterprise the future
success of which could only be regarded as doubtful. The contract was not for the benefit of those 'who should become
creditors of the company, further than the fact that the property of the company was itself .exempte d from the charge. of
taxation would enhance its credit, by securing to mortgage
bondholders a lien which could not be subordinated by the
State. It was not made with the creditors of the company,
nor was it conferred as a franchise inhering in the property itself, so as to pass by way of incumbrance -or assignment to
mortgagees or purchasers. The language of the clause which
contains the exemption is explicit. It is, that "no taxation upon
the property of the said company shall be imposed by the
State until the profits of the said company shall amount to jen
per cent. on the capital of the company." "But one company is
spoken of, and that is the company to be incorported under
the act. The property to be exempt is the property of that
company and of no other, and while it continues to be the
property of that company and no longer. And the exemption
is to cease when the profits of that particular company have
reached the limit designated, and that limit is measured by a
ratable proportion fixed with reference to -the capital to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opifimn of the Court.

subscribed to form that company and no other. And there
are no words of assignability attached, either expressly or by
any implication, to this immunity. The reasons for considering
such an exemption to be a privilege pertaining to the corporation, and not inhering in the property, and passing to an assignee, were fully stated by -Mr.Justice. Field in delivering the
opinion of the court in the case of'Morgan, v. Louisiana, 93 U.
S. 217, and have been uniformly applied to similar cases subsequently. Wilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Co. v. Palies,109 U. S. 244; Zemphis &
Little Rock Railroad Co. v. Railroad Commissioners, 112 U.
S. 609; St. Louis, Iron -ifountain & Southern.Railway Co. v.
Railroad Commissioners, 113 U. S. 465. And the circumstances of the case distinguish it from that of Humphrey v.
Pegues, 16 Wall. 244.
There is no claim made that, the exemption passed to the
trustees in the trust deeds or mortgages given to secure the
liayment of the bonds of the company ; and none can be made,
that it passed to the purchasers by the judicial sale made under
the decree for foreclosure and sale, by force of the statute declaring what such a sale should pass. The language of the
act upon this subject is, that "such sale and conveyance shall
pass to the purchaser at the §ale, not only the works and
property of the company, as they were at the time of making
the deed of trust or mortgage, but any works which the company may, after that time and before the sale, have constructed
and all other property of which it may be possessed at the
time of the sale, other than debts due to it." So far, nothing is
said of what rights, privileges, franchises, and immunities shall
vest in the purehaser in respect to the property, the title to
which is thus conveyed. The act, however, proceeds to say, that,
"upon such conveyance to the purchaser, the said company
shall ipso facto be dissolved." From this, it necessarily follows
that all privileges, which by the terms of its charter were personal to it, ceased with its dissolution. But the statute adds:
"And the said purchaser shall forthwith be a corporation by
-myname which may be set forth in said conveyance, or in
any writing signed by'him or them and recorded in the re,

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. MILLER. 185
Opinion of the Court.
corder's office of any county wherein the property, so sold or
any part thereof, is situated, or where said conveyance is recorded." Thus is formed, a new corporate body, succeeding to
the title of the property sold and conveyed to it, but deriving
its existence from this law and not from the original act of incorporation, which constituted the charter of its predecessor,
and with such powers, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities only as are conferred upon it by the law which has
brought it into being.
These are defined in the next succeeding -section. So far as
material to the question its language is: "The corporation
created by or in consequence of such sale and conveyance shall
succeed to all such franchises, rights and privileges, and perform all such duties as would have been had, or should have
been performed, by the first company, but for such sale and
conveyance," &c.
It is earnestly contended, on behalf of the plaintiff in errqr,
that by virtue of this language, it is entitled to enjoy the property formerly .belonging to the 'Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad
Company, its predecessor, precisely as though, it had been
incorporated under the charter of that company, and therefore
with the exemption from taxation which was conceded to that
company. But broad, general and comprehensive as the language is, we cannot, in reference to the subjedt-matter now in
hand, apply it with that force and meaning. The words used
are, it will be observed, "franchises, rights and privileges,
as 'would have been had, . . . by the first
company, but for such sale," &c. Therb is no express reference to a grant of any exemption or immunity; nothing is.gid
in relation to the subject of taxation. The words actually used
do not necessarily embrace a grant of such an exemption.. As
was said, on this point, in .forgan v. Louiriact, 93 U. S. 217,
223: 1" Much confusion of thought has arisen in this case and
in similar cases from attaching a vague and undefined meaning
to the term 'franchises.' It is often used as synonymous with
rights, privileges, and immunities, though of a personal and
temporary character; so that, if any one of these exists, it is
loosely termed a Ifranchise,' and is supposed to pass upon a

OCTOBER TERM, ISS4.
Opinion of the Court.

transfer of the franchises of the company. * But the term must
always be considered in connection with the corporation or
property to which it is alleged to appertain. The franchises of
a railroad corporation are rights or privileges which are
essential to the operations of the corporation, and without
which its road and works would be of little value; such as the
franchise to run cars, to take tolls, to appropriate earth and
gravel for the bed of its road, or water for its engines, and the
like. They are positive rights or privileges, -without the possession of which the road of the company could-not be successfully worked. Immunity from taxation is not one of them.
The former may be conveyed to a purchaser of the road as
part of the property of the company ; the latter is personal and"
incapable of transfer. without express statutory direction."
Iere, there is no such express statutory direction. Npr is
there an equivalent implication by necessary construction.
There is nothing in the language itself, nor the context, nor the
subject-matter of thie legislation, nor the situation and relation
of the parties to be affected, which indicates that a grant of an
exemption from taxation to a particular railroad corporation,
or to a class of such, was in the contemplation of the Legislature. The subject matter of this legislation was not the
original construction of railroads,'but the operation of railroads
already constructed. The State was not in the attitude of a
contractor, soliciting subscriptions of capital, in the formation
of companies to undertake the risk of public improvements,
for the benefit of the State, with the hazard of loss and perhaps financial ruin to the first promoters, and offering exemptions from taxation as a consideration, by way of contract, for
the acceptance of itsproposals. It was legislating in reference
to enterprises already undertaken, prosecuted and completed
by cbmpanies originally thus inc6rporated, and who, by reason
of insolvency, had been stripped of their property-by creditors
and sentenced by the law to dissolution; and the purpose of
the statute was simply to provide suitable means of incorporating the purchasers, to facilitate their use of the property, in
operating it for the benefit of the public, as designed from the
beginning.- These purchasers. had not bought the immunity

CHESAPEAKE & 01lO RAILWAY CO. v. MILLER. 187
Opinion of the Court.

now demanded either from the State or the prior possessor.
The contract of the creditors would be fully met, on failure of
payment of the stipulated debt, by subjecting to sale the property pledged for its payment, with such rights, franchises and
privileges only as were necessary for its beneficial use and enjoyment. The immunity from taxation, as we have already
said, was not necessarily included in that designation. The

debtor corporation,. and its creditors combined, could not confer upon the purchasers any rights which were not assignable;
and, as no consideration moved to the State for a' renewal of
the grant, there is no motive for finding, by mere construction
and implication, what the words of the law have failed to express. That certainly is not a reasonable interpretation for
which no sufficient reason can be assigned.
We conclude, therefore, that the act from which the plaintiff
in error derives its- corporate existence and powers in West
Virginia does not contain a renewal of the grant by exemption
from taxation, which, in the 7th section of the act of March
1, 1866, applied to the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company.
Were it otherwise, so that we should be constrained to hold
that the language of the act of West Virginia of February 18,
1871, as amended by that of February 20, 1877, had the force
of a grant to the plaintiff in error of the exemption of taxation vested: by the 7th section of the act of March 1, 1866; in
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, nevertheless we
should be compelled also to hold on distinct grounds, that the
exemption thus conferred did not take effect as a contract, protected from repeal by the Constitution of the United States.
On the supposition now made, it would still be true, that all
the rights of the plaintiff in error, as a corporation, other than
the title to the property it acquired by the judicial sale, had
their origin in, and depended upon, the acts.of 18-71-77, under
and by which it was created a corporation. It can, in no sense,
be regarded as the identical corporate body, of which it became the successor, merely discharged by a process of insolvency from further, liability for past debts, which is the view
pressed upon us in argument by counsel for plaintiff in error.

ISS

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The language of the statutes expressly contradicts this assumption. The old corporation in terms is dissolved. The purchasers are as explicitly declared to become a corporation, and
its corporate powers are conferred by reference to those which
had belonged to their predecessor. The language of the law,
the reason involved in its provisions and the precedents of cases
heretofore decided by this court, foreclose further controversy
on this point. Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Railroad Co. v.
3faine, 96 U. S. 499 ; Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359;
1. & N1W.
Railroad Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244.
That being the case, all grants of corporate powers, rights,
privileges, franchises and immunities are taken subject to existing laws, remaining unrepealed. At tjhe time the plaintiff
in error became a corporation, ch. 53, § 8, of the Code of West
Virginia of 1869, which took effect April 1, 1869, was in force,
and has never been repealed. It enacted, among other things,
as follows: . . . "And the right is hereby reserved to the
Legislature to alter any charter or certificate of incorporation
hereafter granted to a joint stock company, and to alter or repeal any law applicable to such company." The Constitution
of the State of West Virginia of 1863, Art. 11, § 5, also provides as follows:
"5. The Legislature shall pass general laws whereby any
number of persons associated for mining, manufacturing, insuring, *orother purpose useful to the public, exceptifng banks of
circulation and the construction of works of internal improvement, may become a corporation, on complying with the terms
and conditions thereby prescribed; and no special act incorporating or granting peculiar privileges to any joint stock company or association, not having in view the issuing of bills to
circulate as money or the construction of some work of internal improvement, shall be passed. No company or association,
authorized by this section, shall issue bills to circulate as money.
No charter of incorporation shall be granted under such general laws, unless the right be reserved to alter or amend such
charter at the, pleasure of the Legislature, to be declared
by general laws. No act to, incorporate any bank of circulation or internal improvement company, or to confer additional

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO. v. MILLER. 1S9
Opinion of the Court.

privileges on the same, shall be passed, unless public notice of
the intended application for such act be given under such regulations as shall be prescribed by law."
The incorporation of the plaintiff in error comes within the
provisions, both of the Constitution and of the Code of 1868.
Its charter is the law of 1871 as amended by that of 1877. Its
certificate of incorporation is the conveyance to it, by the name
it.has chosen, as a purchaser at the judicial sale, or set forth in
some writing signed by such purchaser, and recorded' as required. It is a charter granted under a general law, which the
Constitution declares to be subject to legislative alteration and
amendment. The laws subjecting its property to taxation,
and which form the subject of the present controversy, are but
the exercise of that legislative discretion, which, as it became
the law of the contract itself, cannot be complained of as a
breach of the conttact.
The conclusion is not weakened by the suggestion that the
rights of the plaintiff in error originate in the provisions of the
Code of Virginia, referred to in the act of March 1, 1866, incorporating the Covington and Ohio Railroad Company, and
of which the acts of 1871-4T7 are re-enactments. For even
then they would not antedate the provision of the Constitution
of 1863, nor avoid the effect of the reasoning of this court in
the case of-- The St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Co. v. Railroad Commissioners,113 U. S. 465. The rights
of the plaintiff in error, as a corporation, are determined by the
law in force when it came into being, although there is no
ground'on which it can be contended that there was any legislative contract in the act of iarch 1, 1866, for the further
creation of any corporation in favor of possible purchasers at
judicial sales under decrees of foreclosure of deeds of trust or
mortgages.
In either view the result is the same, and for the reasons given
the decree of the Supreme Court of Appeals of the.State of
West Virginia is
Aftrrned.

