OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY v. ROSE & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEVADA.
Argued April 13, 14, 18-5.-Decided May 4, 1885.

When the statutes of the United States, and local laws of a mining district
authorize a location on a vein of only two hundred feet by each locator, a
location by mistake for more than two hundred feet is not therebymade entirely void ; but is good for two hundred feet, and void only for the excess.
A claimant making a claim hi good faith, as discoverer of a constituent vein
in the Ruby Hill deposit before it was known that the deposit was one
lode, is entitled to the additional two hundred feet of location given to
discoverers.
The filing of a complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction is a commencement of proceedings by an adverse claimant to determine the right of possession to mineral lands under Rev. Stat. § 2326.
Where defendant in a proceeding under Rev. Stat. , 2326 to determine adverse
claims to mineral lands demurs to the complaint, and answers, and goes to
trial, it is too late to raise the objection that the complaint was not filed
within the time required by the statute.
A decision of a State court upon the question of what constitutes the commencement of an action in that court is not a federal question.
It is not competent for officers of the Land Department, while a proceeding
under Rev. Stat. § 2326 is pending in a court of competent jurisdiction, to
assume from delay in placing the cause upon the trial calendar, or taking
proceedings therein, that the adverse claim has been waived, and to issue
a patent for the mineral lands in dispute as if no adverse claim had been
made.
A title founded on a patent, procured by an independent application, for a different mineral tract, applied for, and issued pending proceedings under
Rev. Stat. § 2326 cannot be set up in those proceedings to affect the result
of the litigation in them.

This was a prdceeding under Rev. Stat. §§ 2325, 2326, to determine adverse claims to the possession of mineral lands in
Nevada. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
By direction of the court the following explanatory map has
been prepared to show the location of the several claims.

voL. cv-87

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

.Y. Thomas Wren and -r.
in error.

Walter H. smit for plaintiff

Ar. A. B. Browne and .fr. 0. . I-illyer [21r. A. T. Britton and Mrl. J H. AcGowan were with them on their brief],
for defendants in error.
JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Nevada.
The case presents a conflict of mining claims.
The contest began in the State District Court for the County
if Eureka, Nevada, by defendants in error filing in that court,
as plaintiffs, a petition against the Richmond Mining Company.
To save repetition and confusion, the parties will be mentioned
in this opinion as they are throughout the record, and as they
actually were in the State courts, namely, Rose and others as
plaintiffs, and the Richmond Mining Company as defendant.
This petition or complaint was filed October 21, 1873. A
demurrer was filed to it by the defendants November 1, and
an answer, November 26.
The complaint alleged that plaintiffs were, and ever since
January 20, 1872, had been, the owners of the Uncle Sam
mining claim, ledge, lode and deposit of mineral-bearing rock
in the Eureka Mining District, County of Eureka, and State of
Nevada, on the western slope of "Ruby Hill." A minute
description of the claim is then given, with courses and distances with reference to the shaft.
It is then alleged that the defendant, unjustly and adversely
to plaintiffs, claims an estate in fee in said premises, and has
filed in the United States land office an application for a patent
thereto, under the name of the St. George Ledge and Mine.
Plaintiffs, therefore, pray judgment that defendant be barred
from all estate or interest in the premises, or any part thereof,
or any right of possession.
The answer of defendant, filed November 26, 1873, denies
any claim to plaintiffs' location, except as it is covered by their
claim, the St. George, which does cover a small part of it.
As to so much of plaintiffs' claim as is covered by the St.
George it asserts a superior right.

Mr.

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY v. ROSE.

579

Opinion of the Court.

The next pleading is an amended answer of the defendant,
which sets out the fact, that since the commencement of the
suit defendant has acquired title by patent from the United
States, to all that portion of the mining ground in controversy;
covered by the application for the patent for the St. George
claim. This amended answer was filed April 20, 1881, which
is seven years and a half after the first or original answer.
In September, 1881, the case was tried before the court without a jury and a judgment was rendered, from which plaintiffs
appealed to the Supreme Court. That court modified the
judgment of the court below materially in favor of plaintiffs,
and to that judgment the Richmond Mining Company, the defendant below, prosecutes this writ of error.
The judge of the District Court of the State made a full
finding of the facts in the case on which he rendered judgment,
and on those facts. the case was heard and decided in the Supreme Court of the State, and so it must be here.
According to this finding, the plaintiffs sunk their shaft on
a mineral lode, staked and marked out their claim, gave due
notice of it, and did the necessary work on it to perfect their
right to the mine. In all this they were prior in point of time
to the operations of defendant on their 8t. George claim. It
may, therefore, be assumed that unless some of the objections
to the claim of plaintiffs set up by defendant are valid, the
judgment of the State Court must stand.
We shall examine these objections in such order as seems
"*
convenient.
1. The one much, if not chiefly, relied on is that the claim
covers eight hundred lineal feet of the lode; when, there being
only three locators, both"by the act of Congress and the local
laws of that mining district, only two hundred feet could be
appropriated to each locator, and, therefore, this excess of two
hundred feet over the six hundred, which these three could
locate, renders the whole claim void. The law, however,
allowed to each locator, who was the discoverer of the vein on
which the location was made, two hundred feet additional for
hfs merit as discoverer.
We hardly think it needs discussion to decide that the inclu-

.580

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

sion of a larger number of lineal feet than two hundred, renders
a location, otherwise valid, totally void. This may occur, and
often must occur, by accident of the surveyor, or other innocent
mistake, where there exists no intenition to claim more than
the twohundred feet. Must the whole claim be made void by
this mistake, which may injure no one, and was without design
t violate the law?
We can see no reason, in justice or in the iature of the transaction, why the excess may not be rejected, and the claim be
held good for the remainder, unless it interferes with rights
previously acquired. It appears by the facts found that one
hundred and forty .oet of the east end of plaintiffs' location is
lost to them by the superior right of the Tip Top claim, leaving only sixty feet of excess; and this, if it were necessary,
might be excluded by the government at the other or western
end of the claim when it comes to issue the patent; which
would leave plaintiffs only the six hundred feet in one body, in
regular form. This also would interfere with no prior rights,
and would give plaintiffs the benefit of their claim to the extent
of two hundred feet for each locator.
But, if it were necessary, we should agree with the Supreme
Court of Nevada, that Rose, one of the plaintiffs, was entitled
to an additional two hundred feet, as discoverer of the vein on
which the claim is located. At the time this location was
made there were many claims asserted for veins discovered in
Ruby Hill, and most of the claimants believed that they were
in each instance the discoverer of a new vein or lode. Rose
entertained the same belief when he made his claim and therefore asserted his right to two hundred additional feet along
tkls vein as discoverer.
It was supposed some five or six years after this, and after
Rose and his companions had spent their money and labor in
developing their mine,that the whole Ruby Hill deposit Was
one zone or lode of great width, and it has been held in the
-Eureka case, 4 Sawyer, 302, that, though there were many
small, detached fissures or veins, distinct from each other, composing this zone, it is within the meaning of the act of Con.
gress concerning locations to be treated as one lode or vein.

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY v. ROSE.
Opinion'of the Court.

Bat :Rose, or his vendor, Phillips, vas the discoverer of this
vein within the lode, and as such asserted in good faith his
right to an additional two hundred feet.
We do not see any reason, within the spirit of the law, where
the claim as discoverer injures no one at the time it is made,
and it has been made in good faith, in the reliance on the actual
discovery of one of these constituent veins, and acted on for.
five years before knowledge of any. mistake, it should not
justify the claim for the two hundred feet as discoverer.
2. The next objection to be noticed is that the-court should
have held that the patent obtained by defendant from the
United States, which covered all that defendant claimed, should
prevail, as it conveyed the legal title.
This proposition goes to the merits of the case, and, if sound,
covers the field of controversy. Its soundness depends on the
statutes of the United. States, and mainly on §§ 6 and 7 of the
act of Congress of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 92, 93, which are embodied in the Revised Statutes in §§ 2325 and 2326.
By the first of these sections the applicant for a.patent for
a mining claim is required to file with his application the
evidence of his right to it, and the register is to cause a publication of the application to be made for sixty days, during
which time any adverse claimant to any part of the location
describedL in this application is required to give notice of contest by filing a protest in the land office.
As no question is raised in this case that defendant filed his
claim properly, ahd plaintiffs made due protest within the
sixty days, and as the controversy arises out of the subsequent
proceedings under the next section, that is copied here in full:
"Where an adverse claim is filed during the period of publication, it shall be upon oath of the person or persons making
the same, and shall show the nature, boundaries, and extent of
such adverse claim, and all proceedings, except the publication
of notice and making and filing of the affidavit thereof, shall
be-stayed until the controversy shall have been settled or decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse claim
waive I. It shall be the duty of the adverse claimant, within
thirty days after filing his claim, to commence proceedings in

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

a court of competent jurisdiction, to determine the question of
the right of possession, and prosecute the same with reasonable
diligence to final judgment; and a failure so to do shall be a
waiver of his adverse claim. After such judgment shall have
been rendered, the party entitled to the possession of the claim,
or any portion thereof, may, without giving further notice, file
a certified copy of the judgment-roll with the register of the
land office, together with the certificate of the Surveyor-General that the requisite amount of labor has been expended or
improvements made thereon, and the description required in
other cases, and shall pay to the receiver five dollars per acre for
his claim, together with the proper fees, whereupon the whole
proceedings and the judgment-roll shall be certified by the register to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and a
patent shall issue thereon for the claim, or such portion thereof
as the applicant shall appear, from the decision of the court, to
rightly possess. If it appears from the decision of the court
that several parties are entitled to separate and different portions of the claim, each party may pay for his portion of the
claim, with the proper fees, and file the certificate and description by the Surveyor-General, whereupon the register shall
certify the proceedings and judgment-roll to the Comiissioner
of the General Land Office, as in the preceding case, and patents shall issue to the several parties according to their respective rights. Nothing herein contained shall be construed
to prevent the alienation of the title conveyed by a patent for
a mining claim to any person whatever."
Under this provision plaintiffs filed with the register, on the
24th of September, 1873, their protest, to which no objection is
perceived. On October 21 their complaint was filed in the
proper court in Nevada in support of their protest. But they
did not pay any docket fee, nor any other fee, and no fees were
paid by them until August, 1874.
It is argued that, by reason of the failure to pay these fees
within the time required by the statute of Nevada, the court
acquired no jurisdiction of the case until after the thirty days
within which, by the foregoing section, the action- was to be
commenced; and, also, that, becaise no process to appear was

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY v. ROSE.
Opinion of the Court.

issued or served on the defendants within thirty days, the
whole proceeding is void.
There are several sufficient answers to these suggestions.
1. We do not doubt that within the meaning of the act of
Congress the plaintiffs did commence p'oceedings by filing their
complaint on the 21st of October, eight days inside the thirty
days which it allowed.
2. Defendants having demurred within a few days after this
commencement of the suit, and answered,- and gone to trial
without raising -this objection in the proper time, cannot be
permitted to do it now.
3. What constitutes the commencement of an action in a
State court being matter of State law, the decision of that court
on this point is not a federal question, and is not therefore re.
viewable here.
These propositions also answer the objection of non-payment
of fees to the State, which is purely a matter of State concern,
and if it could in any manner avail the defendant it must have
been by motion at the time, and before demurring or answering to the merits.
It may also be added, that, as the clerk paid the fees into
the county treasury in due time, it became simply a matter of
debtor and creditor between him and plaintiffs.
A question of more difficulty arises out of the facts, that,
after the answer of defendant in 1873, the cause was put on the
calendar for trial, but no trial was had 'for several terms by
reason of negotiations for a settlement of the controversy; and
the last order for continuance was had in March term, 1874, on
motion of counsel for defendant. in September, 1876, the defendant produced before the register and receiver of the land
office, the certificate of the clerk of the court to the effect that
this action had not been placed upon the trial calendar, nor any
proceedings been had thereon from the March-term, 1874, to
the date of the certificate.
The section already cited, regulating the proceedings in this
class of cases, enacts that, after the. protest shall have been duly
filed in the land office, " all proceedings, except th6 publication of notice, and making. and filing of the affidavit thereof,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be stayed until the controversy shall have been settled or
decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse
claim waived." The land officer to whom the defendant presented this certificate of the clerk, holding it to be sufficient
evidence that "the adverse claim had been waived," proceeded
to prepare the necessary papers on which the Commissioner
issued the patent, whose effect is now under consideration.
It must be admitted that, if the land officer had the right,
while this action was pending in the courts, never dismissed,
and yet undecided, to determine that plaintiffs' claim, adverse
to defendants, had been waived, and to resume action in the
case on that decision, the court was in error in holding the
patent void as to the interfering claims. For, though the court
of first jurisdiction finds facts sufficient to show that this delay
was not the fault of plaintiffs, and in no way implied a waiver
of their claim, these facts can only be shown probably in some
proceeding directly to impeach the patent, or .set it aside. At
all events, if the Land Department had any right.to decide
that there was a waiver while the action was still pending and
undecided, the presumption that it decided rightly must be
conclusive in an' action at law, and if this action is of that
character it must be conclusive here. Whether this patent can
be thus impeached under the course of proceedings in the
Nebraska courts, we need not inquire here, for we are of opinion that the land officers had no such power.
Looking at the scheme which this statute presents, and which
relates solely to securing patents for mining claims, it is apparent that the law intended, in every instance where there was
a possibility that one of these claims c6nflicted with another,
to give opportunity to have the conflict decided by a judicial
tribunal before the rights of the parties were foreclosed or embarrassed by the issue of -a-patent to either claimant. The
wisdom of this is apparent when we consider its effect upon
the value of the patent, which is thereby rendered conclusive
as to all rights which could have been asserted in this proceeding, and that it enabled this to be done in the form of an
action in a court of the vicinage, where the witnesses could be
produced, and a jury, largely of iiners, could pass upon the

RICHMOND MINING COMPANY v. ROSE.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of the parties under instruction as to the law from the
court.
It is in full accord with this purpose that the law should declare, as it does, that when this contest is inaugurated the land
officers shall proceed no further until the court has decided,
and that they shall then be governed by that decision; to
which end a copy of the record is to be filed in their office.
They have no further act of judgment to exercise. If the
court decides for one party or the other the Land Department
is bound by the decision. If it decides that neither party has
established a right to the mine or any part of it, this is equally
binding as the case then stands. With all this these officers
have no right to interfere. After the decision they are governed by it. Before the decision, once the proceeding is initiated, their function is suspended.
What, then, is meant by the phrase, "all proceeding shall
be stayed until the controversy is settled or decided by a court,
of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse claim waived?"
We can imagine several ways in which it can be shown that
the adverse claimis waived without invading the jurisdiction of
the court while the case is still pending. One of these would
be the production of an instrument signed by the contestant,
and duly authenticated, that he had sold his interest to the
other party, or had abandoned his claim and his contest. Or,
since the act says that all proceedings shall be stayed in the
land office from the fIling of the adverse claim, and not from
the commencement of the action in the court, within thirty
days, such delay of thirty days is made by the statute conclusive of a waiver. A filing in the records of the court by the
plaintiff of a plea that he abandons his case or waives his claim,
might authorize the land office to proceed.
But all these are very far removed from the assumption by
that officer that, because there have been delays in the court,
plaintiff has waived his claim. It is for the court, while it has
jurisdiction of the case, that is, until it is decided or dismissed,
to pass upon the rights of the parties-to decide whether either
party has lost his right by laches or failure to proceed with dil.
igence, and to act accordingly.- If defendant in this case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

dissatisfied with the delay, he had all the remedies usual
in courts in such cases. A motion to dismiss for want of prosecution would have relieved him if he was entitled to treat the
case as abandoned. Or he could, in all the ordinary ways, require the plaintiff to go to trial or show good cause for continuance.
But, while all this was in the hands of the court, with full
power to do what was necessary to establish judicially the rights
of the parties, the land office could not resume control of the
case upon the idea which might be there entertained of an implied waiver of the claim from delay in the court.
It had no power over the case, and its action and its patent,
so far as it affects the rights of plaintiffs, are void. The rejection of the patent as influencing the judgment of the court
was not therefore an error.
3. Another error is assigned growing out of the fact, that the
defendant, during the -time this litigation wag pending, located
another claim called the Victoria on this lode, outside of and
parallel with the St. George. Without notice to plaintiffs, and
with no opposition, they procured a patent for this claim, and
set it up against plaintiffs on the trial of this action.
It is insisted that, though this claim does not come on the
surface in conflict with the Uncle Sam location, it is in the same
vein, and gives the right to pursue that vein under the Uncle
Sam claim, and, being a patent about which there was no contest, it must prevail in this action.
But without deciding the question of their right to pursue
the vein under ground as against a prior valid location, by
reason of the earlier date of patent, we concur with the
Supreme Court that the right to that part of this very vein being in contest between these parties in reference to the Uncle
Sam and St. George claims, the decision of this controversy
cannot be rendered nugatory. by the introduction of a new claim
by one of the parties, whose claim of right from the government
for this same location is initiated while this litigation is going
on. The parties were all in court. The subject matter was
before the court. The thing to be ctided was the right of the
conflicting claims to this lode. This was within the jurisdiction

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PAC.RAILWAY CO. v. HAM. 687
Syllabus.

of the court, and any patent issued to one, or the other, or both
these parties, under this proceeding for this property, must relate back to the date of their claims, and override the new
patent. This result cannot be defeated by producing this new
patent to destroy it. The claim was initiated by a party to this
suit 1 endente lite, and must abide the result of the litigation in

this case.
These are the principles which control the decision of the
case. There may be others suggested, by counsel which are not
here specially noticed, but they are not deemed sufficient to
vary the result.

7e judgment of the Suprerne Court of Nevada is aflirmed.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COM.PANY v. HAM & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 8,1S85.-Decided May 4,1885.

Four railroad corporations whose roads formed a connecting line in Ohio, In.
diana and Illinois, were consolidated, according to the statutes of those
States, under an agreement in which the capital on the basis of which each
entered into the consolidation was described as composed of the amount of
its stock and of its mortgage bonds and other bonds, and-it was agreed that
all those bonds should, " as to the principal and interest thereof, as the
same shall respectively fall due, be protected by the consolidated company,
according to the true effect and meaning of the bonds." Two years aftarwards, the consolidated company, to secure its own bonds payable at a later
date than the old ones, executed a mortgage of all its property to trustees;
which recited that it had been deemed for the interest of the corporation ag
-well as for the interest of all the various classes of existing bonds (which
were specifically described) that the whole of them should be consolidated
into one mortgage debt upon equitable principles ; and provided that a
sufficient amount of. the new bonds should be retained "to retire, in such
manner and upon such terms as the directors may from time to time prescribe," an equal amount of the old bonds. Six years later, the consohdatel

