OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.
States could proceed by information instead of indictment to try
a defendant charged under section 5457 of the Revised Statutes
with the violation thereof ; that is to say, whether the offences
declared in said section are infamous crimes to be prosecuted
solely through indictment pursuant to Article V of the amend11 Fed. Rep.
ments to the Constitution of the United States."
58.
IIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question certified in this case is answered in the negative, and the second in the affirmative, on the authority of Ex
parte Wilson, decided at the present term.
-.

4---

DODGE & Another v. KNOWLES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted January 9,1865.-Decided April 13, 1865.
Neither the liability for provisions supplied at a dwelling house where a husband and wife and their children are living together, nor a promissory note
given by the husband, describing himself as trustee for the wife, in payment for such supplies, can be charged in equity upon the wife's separate
estate, without clear proof that she contracted the debt on her own behalf,
or intended to bind her separate estate for its payment.
When the decree below is for a sum which gives this court jurisdiction on appeal, and the appellee Makes no appearance here, but expressly declines to
do so, after not-ice to him by order of court, it is too late to offer proof that
the amount involved does not give jurisdiction.
An appeal bond is essential to the prosecution of a suit in this court, if it is
demanded, but not to the taking of the appeal in the court below.
When security on appeal is not furnished until after the term at which the
appeal is taken, failure to cite the appellee does not deprive this court of
jurisdiction.

Bill in equity.
court.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the

Mr.J. Roldsworth Gordon for appellants.
No appearance for appellee.

DODGE v. KNOWLES.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the children and heirs at law of PFrances
I. Dodge, a married woman, deceased, from a decree ordering
her real estate to be sold for the payment of debts alleged to
have been due from her to the appellee, upon a bill filed by
him, in behalf of himself and other creditors who might come
in, against the husband in his own right and as trustee and
executor of the wife, and against her children and various
persons interested in the real estate.
The following facts were undisputed: By an ante-nuptial
settlement, executed on January 22, 1852, Mrs. Dodge (then
Frances I. Chapman) conveyed all her real estate to Mr. Dodge,
in trust, to hold the same for her sole and separate use and
benefit during her life, and so that the same, and the rents aid
profits thereof, should not be liable for his debts; "or in any
way subject to his control or contracts, except so far as is consistent with the provisions of this contract;" and to permit
her, by herself or her attorney appointed by writing under her
hand, to collect and receive the rents and profits from time
to time accruing, and to dispose of the same as she might see
fit, for her own separate use and benefit; and if she should,
by writing under her own hand and seal and attested by two
witnesses, direct the leasing or the absolute sale of the real estate
or any part thereof, then the trmutee should lease or sell and
-onvey the same accordingly, and collect the proceeds of any
sale, and invest them in his name as her trustee, in such a manner as she might approve and require, "and hold the said investments when made, for the same uses, trusts and purposes, and
with the like power and authority, and subject to the like limitations, as are hereinbefore declared of and concerning the original trust subject;" and it was provided that the wife, notwithstanding her coverture, might by will devise and dispose of the
estate, or any part thereof, as she might see fit, and the trustee
should hold and dispose of the same accordingly; and further
provisions were made for the disposition of the estate in case
she should make no will.
On January 25, 1876, the wife died, leaving three children,
and a will, by which, by virtue of the power of appointment

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

reserved to her in the marriage settlement, she devised all her
real estate to her husband in trust for the use and benefit of
two of her children, and appointed him executor, and made
no provision for the payment of debts.
The plaintiff was a retail grocer, and at different times from
1870 to 1875 delivered groceries at the dwelling house where
'the husband and wife and their children resided together, and
received fron the husband, in payment therefor, or in renewal
of other similav. notes, promissory notes signed by him in this
form, "F. Dodge, trustee for Fannie I. Dodge," payable to
the plaintiff or order. At the time of the wife's death, the
plaintiff held four .such notes, payable At various periods not
more than four months after date, for sums amounting in all to
$2,171.61, and interest, and had delivered groceries to the
amount of $120.10, for which no note had been given.
The personal property left by Mrs. Dodge was exhausted by
a distribution made by her executor among her creditors, under
a decree of the Probate Court, by which the plaintiff received
a dividend of $117 upon his claim.
It was further alleged in the bill, and denied in the answer
of the children, that at the time of the giving of the four notes,
and for several years before, Ars. Dodge was indebted to the
plaintiff in a large sum of money for groceries furnished to her,
on the credit of her sole and separate estate, for the maintenance
of herself and her children and her husband, he being insolvent
and entirely without property; and that she caused him for her
to make and deliver the notes to the plaintiff; "all which said
indebtedness said Frances I. Dodge declared was chargeable to
her sole and separate estate, upon the faith of which it was incurred, it having been represented to the plaintiff that her intention to fully secure the same by a proper conveyance in
trust had been from time to time before her death prevented
by her physical condition;" and that at the time of her death
there was also due to plaintiff the sum of $120.10 on open account for groceries furnished as aforesaid.
The material parts of the testimony introduced by the plain.
tiff were as follows:
The plaintiff testified: "The groceries were furnished to Mrs.

DODGE v. IKNOWLES.
Opinion of the Court.

Fannie I. Dodge.

They were furnished to the credit of Mrs.

Dodge. The four notes were received in part renewal of othei
notes and a running grocery account. Mrs. Dodge is also indebted to me in the sum of $120.10 for groceries furnished upon
her faith and credit. These groceries were delivered at hei
dwelling house. They were ordered by Mr. Dodge and the
servants from. time to time. Occasionally Mrs. Dodge was in
the store and ordered some. These articles were furnished
upon the credit of Mrs. Dodge, because I expected Mrs. Dodge
to pay me for them. I did not expect Mr. Dodge to pay for them,
because Mrs. Dodge was looked upon -as beingworth means,
and Mr. Dodge not. Mr. Dodge never offered to pay me this
account, or any portion of it, or to give his own note for any
portion of it. He has handed me money which has been placed
to the credit of the account. He has repeatedly told me that
Mrs. Dodge had plenty of property to pay her debts, and would.
le promised me security from Mrs. Dodge upon her real estate
for this indebtedness. I did not get it, owing to Mrs. Dodge's
death. I did not get a promise from anybody else that I should
have real estate security. Ms., Dodge never personally promised to give me real estate security. I did not see her during
the latter part of the transaction." The plaintiff put in evidence
a letter written to him on January 10, 1876, by Mr. Dodge,
saying: "My wife is dangerously ill, and has been ever since I
saw you. Of course I can do nothing yet as to the security
promised you. As long as Mrs. Dodge lives, it requires her
signature; if she dies, I am still trustee for her heirs, and can
then execute a deed to you as such trustee."
' The husband testified that he was a clerk in an insurance
office, and further testified: "The notes were signed ' F. Dodge,
trustee for Fannie I. Dodge,' because I had no property. I had
no property to give a note upon; I was bankrupt. They werc
to be chargeable to her. They would -nothave been signed by
me as trustee, unless it was for her and upon her responsibility.
I never accompanied the delivery of those notes with the
declaration that they were intended to bind her real estatenot that I can remember. These notes were given with lhe
knowledge of my wife, under her general authority. The
VOL. cx=v-28

43 :

OCTOBER TERM3,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

amounts do not represent any indebtedness contracted by me.
The articles furnished by Mr. Knowles were to eat. The family
consumed them. My wife's family. H-er children and servants
comprised that family. These articles were purchased by her and
on her ,credit. She made the exclusive arrangements for their
purchase through me, as trustee. I was an inmate of the family during this time; my salary furnished the marketing, and
I gave everything I had to the family. I could not support
the whole family. She furnished medicines, wood and coal.
I told Mr. Knowles verbally that Mrs. Dodge was ill with paralysis; that she could not be spoken to on business; that when she
got well I would get her to give him real estate security if I
could. I afterwards wrote him the letter of January 10, 1870.
The promise given by me was in connection with the notes held
by Mr. Knowles. By signing a note I could not make it binding on real cstatd. These notes were not intended by me to be
binding upon her real estate any more than suit at law would
make them so. I only meant that she had real estate enough
to secure any debt she was making."
At the hearing upon bill, answers, a general replication and
evidence, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia at
special tern entered a decree dismissing the bill. Upon appeal
to the general terln that decree was reversed, and it was adjudged that the plaintiff's claim, as stated in the bill, be a lien
upon the real estate included in the nmari'iage settlement. 1
2lackey, 66. The children appealed to this court.
This being an al)p:l in equity, the facts as well as the law
are to be determined by this court. The opinion of the court
l)eloit and the byief of the appellant deal principally with questions of the manuer in which the wife could charge her separate
estate, and of the effect of her exercise of the power of appointment as making that estate assets for the payment of her
debts. But it is unnecessary to consider either of those questions, because we do not find in the record any satisfactory
evidence that the debts sough(t to be enforced were the wife's
debts, or that she intended to charge them upon her separate
estate.
The plaintiff's claims are for groceries supplied to a housc

DODGE v. KNOWLES.
Opinion of the Court.

hold in which the husband and wife and their children were.
living together; and upon promissory notes given by the husband, describing himself as trustee for the wife, in payment for
groceries so supplied. The obligation to pay for the supplies of
the family is ordinarily a debt of the husband, Promissory
notes given by the husband, though describing himself as
trustee for the wife, bind him personally, and do not bind her
estate, .unless he is clearly proved to have had authority to give
them in her behalf. The terms of the marriage settlement did
not authorize the husband to contract any debts on the wife's
account. The evidence introduced by the plaintiff consisted of
the testimony of himself and of the husband. The plaintiff's
testimony was rather to his own motives and reasons for
charging the goods to the wife, than to any contrast by her;
and the husband's testimony was more to legal conclusions
than to specific facts.
While the plaintiff testified in.general terms that .the goods
were furnished to the wife, and upon her faith and credit, and
gave, as his reason for furnishing them upon her cr&Iit, that
he expected her to pay for them, and did not expect the husband to do so, because she was looked upon as. worth means,
and he was not; and stated that the husband promised him
security from the wife upon her real estate; yet the only
specific facts to which he testified, bearing upon the. question
who was his debtor, were that the groceries were delivered at
the dwelling house; that they were ordered by the husband and
the servants, and occasionally by the wife; and that the husband had handed him money which had been placed to the
credit of the account. He did not testify to any express contract by the wife, and he admitted that slie never promised to
give him security on her real estate.
The testimony of the husband was hardly more direct. -He
testified indeed that the goods were purchased by the wife and
on her credit, and that she made the exclusive arrangements
for their purchase through him as trustee; that the notes wet'e
to be chargeable to her, and would not have been- signed by
him as trustee, unless it was for her and upon her responsibility;
and that they "were given with her knowledge, under he

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court on motion to set aside judgment.

general authority." But he did not define or indicate the
nature or extent of the general authority to which he referred;
he did not testify that she ever promised to pay for the goods,
or expressly authorized him to promise that she would pay for
them; and he did testify that he never, so far as be could remember, accompanied the delivery of the notes with a declaration that they were intended to bind her real estate.
Such testimony is wholly insufficient to warrant a court of
equity in decreeing that debts, which are primafaciethe debts
of the husband, should be considered as debts of the wife, and
made a lien upon her separate estate.
Decree reversed,and case remanded with directionsto dismiss
the bill.
After entry of judgment, 21r. Charles X3. _fatthews for
appellee, appeared only for the. purpose of the motion, and on
the 24th of April, 1885, moved to set aside the judgment and
decree and to dismiss the appeal for the following reasons:
"1st. Because no citation hath been issued or served, the
securityherein having been taken and accepted at a term of
the said Supreme Court of the District of Colmbia subsequent
to that during which said appeal was prayed, said Thomas
Knowles not having entered a general appearance herein.
"2d. Because the matter in dispute did, not exceed the sum
of twenty-five hundred (82,500) dollars."
M.. CHI F JUSTICE WAirrE delivered the opinion of the court
on this motion, May 4, 1885.
The facts on which this motion rests are these:
The final decree in the cause was rendered February 23,
1881. At the foot of the decree, and as part of' the original
entry, is the following:

"From this decree the defendants pray an appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States, which appeal is hereby
allowed.
D, K. CATTRE,
"By order of the court:
', O'f.Just."

DODGE v. KNOWtES.
Opinion of the Court on motion to set aside judgment.

Security upon the appeal was not taken until November 5,
1881, which was after the term when the decree was rendered.
No citation was served on the appellee, but the appeal was
duly dpcketed in this court November 11, 1881. The cause
was called in: its.regular order for the first time ,anuary 9,
1885, and on that day submitted on printed brief by.the counsel for the appellants, no one appearing for the appellee. On
the 17th of January, the court, of its, own motion, ordered
"that this cause be re-argued, either orally or on print~d briefs,
to be filed on or before the first Monday in March next." The
purpose of this order was to allow the appellee an opportunity
to be heard. A copy was served on him personally on or about
January 21, and he wrote. the clerk, under date of February
28, as followg:
"Having been advised by counsel that no appeal has ever
been perfected to the Supreme Court of the U. S. in the case
of which you write, I would inform you that I rdspectfully
decline to authorize an appearance to be entered in that court
for me in that cause for any purpose whatever."
On March 2, the appellants again submitted the cause on a
printed brief, no one appearing for the appellee. The case was
taken under advisement and held until April 13, when-the decree of the court below was reversed, and an entry made to
that effect, On the 20th of April, the appellee came, and
entering an appearance only for the purposes of his motion,
moved to set aside and annul the judgment of reversal, and to
dismiss the appeal, 1, because no citation had been issued or
served, and, 2, because the value of the matter in dispute did
not exceed $2,500.
As to the last ground of the motion, it is sufficient to say
that the decree appealed from was for more than $2,500, and
it charged the property of the appellants with the full amount.
Upon the face of the record, therefore, our jurisdiction is c~mplete. Such being the case, we are not willing to consider
extrinsic evidence at this late day for the purpose of ascertaining whether the actual value of the property from which the
collection must be made is sufficient to pay the whole debt or
not.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court on motion to set aside judgment.

The allowance of the appeal by the court while in session
and acting judicially, at the term in which the decree was rendered, constituted a valid appeal, of which the appellee was
bound in law to take notice. The docketing of the cause in
time perfected the jurisdiction of this court. The giving of
the bond was not essential to the taking, though it was to the
due prosecution of, the appeal. It was furnished and accepted
in this case before the cause was docketed here. iHad this
not been done we would have given the appellants leave to
supply the omission before dismissing the appeal. All this
was decided, on full consideration, in Peugh v. Davis, 110
U. S. 227.
It has also been decided that if an appeal was allowed in
open court *during the term in which the decree was rendered
a citation was required, as matter of procedure, if the security
was not furnished until after the term; but in Railroad Co. v.
Blair, 100 U. S. 662, it was said: "Still, an appeal, otherwise
regular, would not probably be dismissed absolutely for want
of a citation, if it appeared, by clear and unmistakable evidence,
outside of the record, that the allowance was made in open
court at the proper term, and that the appellee had actual
notice of what had been done."
The citation is intended as notice to the appellee that an
appeal has been taken and will be duly prosecuted. No special
form is prescribed. The purpose is notice, so that the appellee
may appear and be' heard. The judicial allowance of an
appeal in open court at the term in which the decree has been
rendered is sufficient notice of the taking of an appeal. Security is only for the due prosecution of the appeal. The citation,
if security is taken out of court, or after the term, is only necessary to show that the appeal which was allowed in term has
not been abandoned by the failure to furnish the security before
the adjournment. It is not jurisdictional. Its only purpose is
notice. If by accident it has been omitted, a motion to dismiss
an appeal allowed in open court, and at the proper term, will
never be granted until an opportunity to give the requisite
notice has been furnished, and this, whether the motion was
made after the expiration of two years from the rendition of

DOBSON v. HARTFORD CARPET COMPANY.

439

Syllabus.
the decree or before. Here, before the cause came on for final
hearing notice was given the appellee, by order of the' court,
that the appeal taken in open court was being prosecuted, and
that a reargument at an appointed time was desired. In response to this notice, the appellee declined to apppar, not because he had not been served with a citation, but because no
appeal had been perfected. Had be complained of a want of

citation, the omission might have been supplied if, on consideration, it should have been deemed necessary. But the "ovrder
which was ser~ved on him to appear and argue the cause, if lie
saw fit, was of itself the legal equivalent of a citation for all the

purposes of this appeal.
Tle 9notion ae de6nied.

DOBSON & Another v. HARTFORD CARPET
COMPANY.
SAME v. BIGELOW CARPET COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FR03E THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 2, 1885.-Decided April 20, 1885.
In a suit in equity, for the infringement of a patent for a design for carpets,
where no profits were found to have been made by the defendant., the Circuit Court allowed to the plaintiff, as damages, in respect to the yards of
infringing carpets made and sold by the defendant, the sum per yard which
was the profit of the plaintiff in making and selling carpets with the
patented design, there being no evidence as to the value imparted to the
carpet by the design : .Teld, that such award of damages was improper,
and that only nominal damages should have been allowed.
Where a bill founded on a design patent with a claim for a pattern and separate claims for each of its parts, is taken as confessed, it allegng infringement of the "invention," the patent will be held valid for the purposes of
the suit.

