STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

pany And if C. C. Huntley was not indebted to S. S. Huntley
at that date, then the former will be entitled to be reimbursed
out of the funds in the hands of Barlow, for all that he paid for
the one-sixth part sold to S. S. Huntley, with interest thereon
from the time of the purchase from Parker, the balance, if
any, to go to S. S. Huntley Such further decree should be
rendered after the report of the auditor as the facts thus disclosed will justify or require.
The decree below s reversed, with directonfor such proceed'tngs as will be consstent with thw opinwn.

STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL- FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued April 2, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

Where, by the conmvance of a clerk in the office of an assistant treasurer of
the United States, a person unlawfully obtains from that office money belonging to the United States, and, to replace it, pays to the clerk'money
which he obtains by fraud from a bank, the clerk having no'knowledge of
the means by which the latter money was obtained, the United States are
not liable to refund the money to the bank.
The case distinguished from United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S., 30.

The appellant brought this action in the Court of Claims to
recover from the United States the sum of $125,000 with interest from, March 1, 1867. The petition having been dismissed, the question, upon this appeal, was as to the liability
of the United States to any judgment in favor of the
appellant.
The facts found by the Court of Claims, and upon which the
correctness of the judgment below must depend, were as follows
The appellant, in February and March, 1867, was a national
bankang association, having its place of business in the City of
VOL. cxiv-26

.OCTOBE-R TERM, 1884.
$tatement of Facts.

Boston, Massachusetts; and .there was in that city a firm of
brokers, under the style' of Mellen, Ward & Co., the junior
member of whic]l was Edward Carter.
At the same time George D. Whittle was the chief clerk in
the office of the Assistant Treasurer of the United States, in
Boston, having its general management, and Julius F. Hartwell was disbursing clerk or paying teller.
Prior to the 28th day of February, 1867, M ellen, Ward &
Co., acting through Carter, succeeded in inducing Hlartwell to
take out of the sub-treasury at various times, and to place in
Carter's hands, large aifhounts of money belonging to the United States, until, first and last, the sums so abstracted aggregated from a millioni to a million and a quarter dollars. This
money was used by IMellen, Ward & Co. in stock speculations.
About the middle of February, 1867, the amount so obtained
by Carter being then very large, IHkrtwell informed him that
in the use of the public money they were guilty of a crime.
This, it was found by the court below, was the first information Carter had of the criminal character of these transactions.
Between the middle of February ar.d the 1st of March, 1867,
spvera] conversations were held between Carter and Tartwell,
in which the former expressed his purpose to make the latter's
money right, for the examiation.' of the stib-treasury, which
was expected to take place on -the"1st of March, upon Hartwell's solemn assurance that he would let him have the money
out of the sub-treasury again on the 2d of March, after the
examination should be over, when Carter would repay the parties the moneys he haddbta.ined, and, selling all the stocks and
securities his firm h6ld, replace as much as possible of the
money in the sub-treasury, so as to reduce the loss to the
smallest possible amount. Carter promised Hartwell that he
would return all the money before the 1st of April, not again
to come out of the sub-treasury. During the period within
,which those conversations between Carter and Hartwell occurred, the latter knew in a genpral way the extent of the resources of Mellen, Ward & Co., and how they were using the
money he had let Carter have.

STATE BANK v. INITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

On the 28th of February Carter returned to Iartwell all the
money the latter had let him have, except the sum of $151,000,
whfch the former promised to return tohim the next morning.
Among'the funds so returnedwere United States gold certifi:cates to the amount of $580,000. On the afternoon of. the
same day, Hartwell made'known to Whittle, that he had been
loaning to Carter the funds of the government, and that all
had' been returned, 'except about $150,000. He told Whittle
that the money had been paid out to Carter, -fromtime to time,
to assist in stock speculations; that it was paid back again to
tide over the monthly examination; that he had promised Carter that the money should be repaid to him the following day;
and had told him that he would ask Whittle's consent that the
money go back to him again. Whittle told'HIartwell that it
was an impossibility to let the mon'y go back to Carter, and
that any deficiency must be paid in before 10 o'clock the next
morning.'
About 9 o'clock A.M., of the 1st of March, Hartwell 'called
on Carter at Mellen, Ward. & C6.'s 6ffico and asked him if he
had that money. Carter told him he did not then have it, but
could give it to hin before '10 o'clock, and asked Hlartwell if
he could .not'take a draft on New York, stating to him that
4ellen, Ward & Co. would have a very large amount of New
York funds to dispose of as soon as Hartwellreturned to thetm
'the gold .certificates aforesaid. Hartwell said he would take
the New York funds, and the interview then ended. It did
.not appear that up to. that time Carter had any knowledge or
intinfation of Hartwell's disclbsufes to Whittle; nor did it appear that Carter informed Hlartwell as to how he intended or
.expected to get the draft on New York. At the close-of this
interview Hartwell returned from Mellen, Ward & Co.'s offic6
to the sub-treasury.
About half past nine o'clock of the same morning Carter
went to the banking house of plaintiff and obtained from
Charles H. Smith, its cashier, his draft, as cashier, on the Manhattan Company, New York, in favor of Mellen, Ward & Co.,
for $125,000, which draft was in the words and figures following, to: wit :

OCTOBER TERM, f884.
Statement of Facts.
"THE STATE NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON,

Iarch
1,
1867.
BOSTON,
Pay to the order of Mellen, Ward & Co., one hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars.
C. H. SMITH, Caslder.
No. 215.
To the cashier of the Manhattan Company, New York"
The facts and circumstances connected with his obtaining
that draft were as follows: Carter asked Smith for the bank s
draft on New York for $125,000, promising to give him immediately, in return, Mellen, Ward & Co.'s draft on New
York for the same amount, with $100,000 in United States
gold certificates attached, or else The Adams Express Company's receipt for that amount in gold. Upon the faith of this
promise Smith drew and delivered to Carter the draft aforesaid. In this interview between Smith and Carter nothing
was said by, the latter about there being any.deficiency in the
sub-treasury for which he was responsible; nor that he desired to. use. the" draft to help make good a deficiency there;
nor what his purpose was in obtaining it; -nor does it appear
that Smith had, at any time before or during this interview,
any knowledge or intimation of the transactions between Carter
and Hartwell. Within fifteen or twenty minutes after Carter
received from Smith the draft foiF $125,000. the former, at the
office of Mellen, Ward & Co., delivered it, together with $32,000 in currency, to Hartwell. The latter paid Carter nothing
for the draft; it was passed to him by Carter to make good
that deficiency; and Carter supposed it would not be wanted
for that purpose over an hour. Neither before nor at the time
lartwell received from Carter the draff for $125,000 did the
former know anything of -the means by which the latter obtained it from Smith.
Immediately after Hartwell received that draft and the $32,000 in currency from Carter, he took both to the sub-treasury
and delivered them to Whittle, who objected to receiving the
draft, because the rules of the government required the subtreasury to receive nothing but gold, silver, legal-tender notes,
or national bank notes; and, besides, he had an impression that,

STATE BANK v. INITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

insqme form or other, the plaintiff's cashier was involved in the

stock speculation which Hartwell had, the day before, told him
of. Mellen, Ward & Co.'s being engaged in; for Hartwell had
-then, after Whittle's refusal to let the money go out again mentioned, among others, the name of Smith as one who was going
to be hurt. Whittle then directed Hartwell to go out and: collect the currency. Hartwell tried at several banks to raise the
currency on the draft for $125,000, but could not find sufficient
amount in any one bank. He then went to the Eagle National
Bank of Boston, and obtained from it, in exchange for that
draft, three- of its drafts on New York, one for $75,000, and,
two for $25,000 each, with the idea; that currency. might be
obtained in smaller amounts at different banks; but the hour was
so late then-it being about ten o'clock-that he took the three
drafts directly to Whittle, at the sub-treasury, saying to him
that he had obtained them from the cashier of the Eagle National Bank, in exchange for the draft for $125,000, and that
was the best he could do. The Government examiners were
at that time at work in the sub-treasury upon their monthly
examination of the funds therein. Whittle then went out
from the sub-treasury with the three drafts of- the Eagle National Bank, and sold them to the Second National Bank of
Boston, and returned to the sub-treasury with the proceeds of
the sale, $125,000 in currency, which he turned over, along
with the $32,000 aforbsaid, to the examiners. These sums
made up Hartwell's deficiency, and balanced the cash account
of the office. No part of the $157,000 which those two sums
made up, was ever returned to Hartwell, or Carter, or Mellen,
Ward & Co., or the plaintiff.
Neither when the draft for $125,000 was taken by Hartwell
to Whittle, nor when it was exchanged by "the former for the
drafts of the Eagle National Bank, did Whittle have any
knowledge or notice of the consideration or means by which
that draft had been obtained from the cashier of the appellant;
but he had an impression that Carter had procured it.
About fifteen or twenty minutes after Smith delivered the
draft for $125,000 to Carter, as heretofore stated, Smith went
to Mellen, Ward & Co.'s office to inquire the reason why Carter

406

-OCTOnTER TFRff, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

)bad not brought to hil the gold certificates, a' he had agTeed
to do. Carter was then absent. from the office, and his partner
Mellen told Smith that Carter was out about the matter at that
time, and, as soon as he brought the certificates, Mellen would
take them to Smith. Immediately after this, Mellen, Ward &
Co. ent to Smith their draft on New York for $125,000, but
did not send with it any gold certificates, nor a receipt of the
Adams Express Company. After waiting, perhaps fifteen
minutes, Smith went again to know why the certificates or
the receipt had not been brought to him, and then, for the
first time, learned that Carter was at the sub-treasury, and in
trouble.
After all the foregoing transactions occurred, the plaintiff
voluntarily paid to the Eagle National Bank the draft for
$125,000 which Carter obtained from Smith; and the three
drafts of that bank were duly paid on presentation in New
York. The iforesaid draft of Mellen, Ward & Co. for
$125,000 was never paid, nor was it presented to the drawee
fot payment.
At the time Smith let Carter have the draft for $125,000,
Smith was, as cashier, under bond to the plaintiff, with sureties,
in the sum of $30,000, and after the plaintiff paid the draft it
made demand upon him and his sureties; and the sureties,
without being 'sued, paid to the plaintiff, within ninety days
after the 1st of March, 1867, the full amount of their bond, and
took a receipt theiefor in teiis such as the following:
"State National Bank, Boston, received of
the
amount due from them as sureties on the bond of Charles H.
Smith, late cashier of said bank, by reason of the defalcation-of
said Smith, resultiT'g from an unauthorized draft made by the
said Smith upon the Manhattan Co., New York, for the sum of
one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000), which
was applied to his own use.
'If the said Smith shall hereafter pay to the State National
Bank the said sum of one hundred and twepty-five thousand
dollars, the bank will return to the sureties the- amounts by
them severally paid, or if he shall pay so much thereof that the
bank shall be in the receipt, including the payments nade by

STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

the sureties, of a surplus beyond one hfindred and twenty-five
thousand dollars, the bank will return and distribute such'surplus
to the sureties in proportion to the sums by them severally
paid.
"But this receipt is not to be construed or understood as an
admission or recognition of any obligation on the pait of the
bank to take any measures to make up said defalcation, nor as
the assertion of any claim by the said bank upon any funds,
property, or means whereby the said defalcation, or any pai t
thereof, can be made good, nor as any admission by the said
bank that any such funds, property, or means are in existence."
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition, and the bank ap
pealed from that judgment.
2fD.. George 0. Shattuck for appellant. The claimant paid
the draft to the Eagle Bank because it had purchased it in
good faith. This is found as a fact. The good faith of both
banks in the transaction is unquestioned. The bad faith Was
on the part of agents of the United States. This suit is in the
nature of an action for money had-and received upon a promise
implied from the receipt of money which equitably belongedt
to the claimant. The method used to convert the claimant's
draft into currency was wholly immaterial. This precise question was discussed by this court in the former case growing out
of the transaction of which this was a part. United States
v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30, 35. That case is authority for
holding, on the facts in this case, that Hartwell was pr.ky to
the entire fraud. This case is stronger than that because it is
found that Hartwell knew that the draft came from claimant's
cashier, and that he was to be hurt by the refusal to let tie
funds go out of the sib-treasury after the count. It must be
held on these facts that Hartwell was privy to the fraud fror
beginning to end, and that Whittle also was a party to the
fraud," or at least to the consummation of it. Hartwell and
Carter wer acting together for a fraudulent purpose, andthe
knowledge and acts of each were the knowledge and acts of
the other. Whether each actually knew all the details known
.to the other was of no consequence.. Lincoln v. OlaJ)in,7

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellant.

Wall. 132; 3foore v. Tracy, 'I Wend. 229, 235; Skinner v.
2lerclants'Bank, 4 Allen, 290; Boaz v. Tate, 43 Ind. 60; Page
v. Parker, 43 N. H. 363; Tajy)an v. Powers, 2 Hall, N. Y.
Sup'r. Ct. 277. A party coming late into a conspiracy is even
responsible for theo prior acts of the conspirators. Stewart
v. Johnson, 3 Harrison, N. J. 87. Hartwell requested Carter
to obtain the funds to tide over the count, and solemnly promised to return them as soon as the count was over; he knew
that Carter was relying upon the gold certificates which he expected to receive back to raise the funds, and it was clearly his
intention that Carter should act upon his assurances in dealing
Wvith the parties from whom the funds came, and when the
draft of the State Bank was offered to him, he had notice that
the State Bank had acted upon Carter's representations that he
was to have the funds. Any one for whom false representations were intended, and who has acted upon them, has a right
of action. Polhill v.. Walter, 3 B. & Ad. 114; Iangridge v.
Levy,, 2 M. & W. 519- 4 M. & W. 337; Gerhardv. Bates, 2
El. & B. 476. The same rule applies to a case of fraudulent
concealment. From no point of view is the United States in
the position of a holder in good faith and for value. When
their agent took the money from Carter, it had been and was
distinctly stated for what it was delivered, i. e., to be used as a
counter and returned. When Whittle retained it after the examination was over, he held it wrongfully and in violation of
the agreement under which it was originally recbived. It was
and is therefore held to the claimant's use. It is contended in
behalf of the United States that the claim of the bank has been
reduced or wholly lost by the receipt of $30,000 from the sureties on Smith's official bond as cashier. It has been found that
Smith had no knowledge of the fraud, but issued the draft in
good faith, and his act at the worst was negligence. On the
ground that the issuing of the draft was unauthorized until the
cashier actually received the security, his sureties paid his bond.
The bank is now in pursuit of the fund from a party who holds
it by the fraud of its agents. If the bank should recover the
full amount of its claim and interest, it will be legally and
equitably bound to refund to the sureties. If Smith had paid

STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the full amount of the claim, he would have been subrogated
to the rights of ,the bank. The case is analogous to that of.an
insurer who pays a loss without affecting the party primarily
answerable. Yates v. TVhyte, 4 Bing. N. C. 272; Hall v.
Railroad Companies, 13 Wall. 367.
-Y. Solicitor General for appellee.
MkIR. JUSTICE HmA,
after stating the facts as above recited,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The present case differs materially from United States v.
State Bank, 96 U. S. 30. Our judgonent there proceeded upon
the ground, that the gold certificates deposited in the subtreasury by Smith, the cashier of the State National- Bank of
lBoston, were known by H{artwell, at the time he received
them, to be the property of that bank, and not of Mellen,
Ward & Co. The deposit was made by.Smith, in the presence
of Carter; and, although the receipt for the certificates was
made out to Mellen, Ward & Co. or order, it was immediately
indorsed by Carfer, in the name of his firm, to Smith as cashier. The cancellation of the certificates and their transmission
to the Treasurer of the United States at Washington, was,
therefore, in derogation of the rights of the bank. It was
adjudged that money or property of an innocent person, which
had gotten into the coffers of the nation by means of fraud to
which its agent was a party, could not be held by the government against the claim of the wronged and injured party.
There is no room in the present case for the application of
that principle. Apart from his responsibility for the crime
committed in using the money of the United States, Carter,
representing Mellen, Ward & Co., was under a legal obligation
to replace the amount abstracted from the sub-treasury. Of
his purpose to do so Hartwell was informed. But he had no
reason to believe that Carter would bring him money or securities which belonged to some one else, and which he could not
rightfully deliver in discharge of his indebtedness to the government. When-the draft of $125,000 was delivered by Carter
to Hlartwell, the latter was unaware of the means by which the
former had obtained it from Smith, the cashier of appellant.

OCTOBER TE-RM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It was, on its face, the property of Mellen, Ward & Co. Upon
its receipt by Hartwell for the United States, the government
acquired the same rights, in reference to it, that any private
citizen, receiving it in the course of business, would have acquired. ' That the bank, by its cashier, made and delivered the
draft to Carter upon the faith of his promise to give immediately, in return, Mellen, Ward & Co.'s draft on New York for,
the same amount, with $100,000 in United States gold certificates attached, or else the receipt of The Adams Express Company for that amount in gold, is a circumstance that does not
affect the, legal rights of the United States, to whom the draft
was passed without knowledge, by its agent, of the condition
upon which' Mellen, Ward & Co. had received it. from the
bank's eashier. Nor do we deem of any significance the fact
that Hartwell promised to return to Carter the money which
the latter should place in the sub-treasury for the purpose of
concealing from the officer supervising the examination of its
books the criminal transactions in question. Carter knew that
that promise could not be kept, without subjecting both himself and Hartwell to criminal prosecution, and it was no violation of his legal rights for the agents of the government, after
receiving from him the draft for $125,000, without any knowledge of the circumstances under which he had obtained it, to
dispose of it and place the proceeds in the sub-treasury., After
these proceeds reached the sub-treasury they could not be used
or withdrawn except in the mode prescribed by law. The
essential difference, therefore, between United States v. State
Bank, ubi supra, and this case, is, that, in the former, the
agents of the government appropriated to its use the property
of an innocent person, knowing at the time that it belonged to
that person and not to the government, while in the present
case, they received, in the discharge of a debt due the government, a draft belonging to the debtor, Without any knowledge
or notice that the debtor had obtained it upon conditions which
had not been complied with, or by means of fraudulent representations.
We perceive no ground to question the correctness of the
Affirmed.
judgment below, and it is

