OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

1 Met. 560; Lothrop v. Adams, 133 Mass. 471; Blight v. Tobin,
7 Monroe, 612; Durantv. Rogers, 87 Ill. 508; Collyer on Partnership, Wood's Ed., § 446, 449-50; Lindley on ]Partnership,
Ewell's Ed., § 302.
Afirmed.
The judgment is

ALLING & Another v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued April 1, 1885.-Decided 'May 4, 1M5.

A claim against the United States for moneys awarded by the mixed commission under the Convention of July 4, 1868, with Mexico, and paid by
Mexico to the United States in accordance with the award, is a claim growing out of a treaty, and is excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims by Rev. Stat. § 1066.
Great Western ZnWrance Co. v. United States, 112 U. S. 193, affirmed.
The Act of June 18, 1878, 20 Stat. 144, confers upon the Secretary of State
exclusive jurisdiction over the distribution of the moneys received from
Mexico in payment of the awards made by the Mixed Commission under
the Convention of July 14, 1868, with Mexico.
Frelinghuysenv. Key. 110 U. S. 63, affirmed.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Jrr. Charles IT Hornor, aud X-. If. L. _Me Gary for, appellants.
iL&. Assistant Attorney-General faury for appellee, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MILLfiR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Court of Claims.
JBelden & Co., having a claim for seizure and confiscation of
goods by the Mexicans during or shortly after the Mexican
war, preferred their claim to the United States for presentation to the Mexicangovernment. The goods having been im-

ALLING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.. ,

ported into Matamoras while that city was in the possession of
the American forces, on which Belden & Co. had paid duties
to the amount of $18,347T, the United States refunded this sum
to Belden & Co. and took an assignment _pro tanto of their
claim against Mexico.
By the convention or treaty of July.4,. 1868, between Mexico and the United States, 15 Stat. 679, a commission was organized for the adjustment of the claims of the citizeus of the
respective countries against the government of the other-for
injuries to persons and property.
To this commission Belden & .Co.'s claim was submitted by
the United States, and its award was that the Mexican Government should pay to the United States, on account of this
claim, the sum of $53,099.25, of which the. United States
might retain out of this gross award the sum of $35,920.81, on
account of the tax which it had refunded to Belden & Co. and
its interest.
An act of Congress provided that the distribution of the
money received by the United States under all the awards
made by this "commission should be made under the order of
the Secretary of State.
Claimants in this case having received the sum specifically
awarded to them, appealed to the Secretary for the whole
or a part of the sum for customs duties, which was awarded
to the United States under the assignment7 of Belden & Co.
This was refused, aind this suit is brought to enforce thd
claim.
It is clearly a claim founded on and growing out of a treaty
with a foreign nation, within the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 1066.
It is in all respects like the case of the GreatIFestern Insurance
Co. v. United States, 112 U. S. 193, which holds that the Court
of Claims had no jurisdiction by reason of that section.
That was a case of a claim -ubmitted to the United States
for reclamation against Great Britain. A treaty -between the
two powers provided, as in the present case, for an arbitration,
under which the claim was allowed and paid to the United
States. On appeal from the Court of Claims-we decided that.
it was, within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 1066 "a claim

,564

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

growing out of and dependent on a treaty stipulation entered
into with a foreign government" of which that court could
not entertain jurisdiction.
The present case is stronger than that, because the act of
Congress of June 18, 1878, 20 Stat. 144, confers on the Secretary of State the authority to distribute these awards among
the several claimants. ]Frelinghuysen v. Hey, 110 U. S.63.
Not only is the Court of Claims forbidden to entertain jurisdiction of this claim, but the Secretary of State is by law authorized and directed to do all that can be done for claimants,
without further legislation.
It is apparent from the record that the Court of Claims
entertained jurisdiction of the case and decided against the
claimants on the merits. As that court had no such authority,
its judgment must be
Reversed, with direction to di fzigs the petition for want of
jurisdiction.

WALES v. WHITNEY, Secretary of the Navy.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Argued April 21, 22, 1885.- Decided May 4, 1885.

The act of March 3, 1885, Laws 2d Sess. 4Sth Cong. ch. 853, page 437, restored
to this court appellate jurisdiction in habeas corpus cases over decisions of
Circuit Courts of the United States and decisions of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia.
Neither this court nor the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has appellate jusisdiction over a Naval Court Martial, nor -over offences which it
has power to try.
In order to make a case for habeas corpus there must be actual confinement,
or the present means of enforcing it : mere moral restraint is not sufficient.
The appellant, a medical director in the navy, was, under Rev. Stat. §§ 419,
420, 421, 426, 1471, appointed and commissioned chief of the Bureau of
Medicine and Surgery in the Navy Department, with the title of SurgeonGeneral, and served as such the full term fixed by law. After he had
vacated that office, a court martial was ordered to try him inder charges
and specifications for conduct as Chief of the Bureau and Surgeon-Gemn

