AMY v. SHELBY COUNTY .TAXING DISTRICT. 3S7'
Syllabus.

and is not a fraud or mistake for which the patent can be held
to enure to plaintiff's benefit. Nor does the plaintiff rely on it
as sufficient. His claim to the benefit of defendant's title rests
upon the selection made under State authority. That is the
question of federal law which this court must decide, and as
we have seen, that was well decided against him by the State
court.
Its decree is accordingly

Affirmed.
Aurreeoechea v. Sinclair & Others. This case is submitted on
the same facts and principles and the same briefs as the foregoing
ease, and the same judgment necessarily follows. The judgment
of the Supreme Court of Californi* is accordingly Affirmed. M2lr.
Mr. JXichael
Pringle and Mr. ff.F. Crane for plaintiff in error.
Hfullany for defendant ii error.
Aurrecoechea v. *Bangs & Others; Aurrecoechea v., Gerk &
Others; Aurrecoechea v. Clark & Others; Aurrecoechea v.
French & Others. In accordance with stipulations by the parties
on file in this court, that the above-mentioned cases should abide
the result of the judgment in the case of the same plaintiff against
Bangs, the judgments in the cases are Affirmed

SMY & Another v. SHELBY COUNTY TAXING
DISTRICT & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF TE I ESSEE.

Submitted January 8, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

When a person owing taxes to a municipal corporation becomes the owner of
obligations of the municipality which are by law receivaple in payment of
its taxes, the extinguishment of the tax and the debt is clearly within the
doctrine of set-off of .mutual obligations.
A State law authorizing a debtor of a municipality to procure the obligations of
the municipality and use them as a set-off for his own debt, is not liable to
constitutional objection.as divesting creditors of the municipality of vested
rights, or as impairing the obligation of contracts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court
The act of the Legislature of Tennessee of March 23, 1883, authorizing municipal corporations and taxing districts to ompromise their debts by the
issue 8f new bonds at the rate of fifty per cent. of the principal and past due
iterest, and providing that the acceptance of the compromise shall work a
transfer of the creditor's debt with a right to the municipality or district to
enforce it : and the act of the same date providing that such new bonds and
their matured coupons shall be received in payment of back taxes at the same
rate as the bonds known as the Flippin bonds, did not divest the holders of
unpreferred debts of the city of Memphis of any rights conferred upon them
by the previous legislation set forth or referred to in Meriwetler v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472 ; and violated no provision of the Constitution of the
United States in those respects

This was a bill in equity filed in a State Court of Tennessee
by the plaintiffs in error as plaintiffs below to have rights
secured to them which were alleged to be invaded by legislation of that State referred to in the opinion of the court. A
decree was rendered dismissing the bill, which decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court on appeal. The plaintiff below
sued out this writ of error to review the latter judgment.
The facts which make the federal questiok are stated in the
opinion of the court.
Xr. Iilliam Xf. Randolph for plaintiffs in error.
2Xr. S. P. Walker for the Taxing District of Shelby County.
ill>. LawrenceLamb for defendants in error.
MIR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
By an act of the Legislature of the State of Tennessee,
approved January 29, 1879, the charter of the city of Memphis
was repealed; and by another act, approved the same day,
the territory which had constituted the city was created a taxing district, and the property of the city and all debts due to
it and all uncollected taxes were vested in the State.
On March 13 of the same year another statute, familiarly
called chapter 92, directed the appointment of an officer for
each of the corporations, whose charter was repealed by the
earlier statute, to be called the receiver of back taxes, who

AY

v"SHELBY COUNTY-TAXING DISTRICT. 389
Opinion of the Co'ix.

was-to be under-the control-of a Coufrof :hancery in th6

collection and paying out:of the taxes -so coll6ctedbyhim..
Section 2-of this act directs that: "He shall. distinguish in
making such payments the respective'- sources from which the
moneys paid in are 'derivedd, showing -what. is collected -from
taxes for generalpiirpose and what for taes for special ,puposes, designating t~aepart.icular or -special-purpe,so that-the
same Jhay be kept separate intlhe-State teasuy m.ordertihat
"thetrePasurer mhay pay:th6 'me-according atoany lien,. prioi.1,
or equity, if any,-w'hichmay be declar,ed by the Chancery, C6urt,
touching 'ny 6f -said kinds; inx favop of afiy creditor or class of
*creditors.". Another section'aiithorizes the receiver of back taxes
to file a bill in.chancery, in the mame of the State, in behalf &f
all .creditors, against.ill delinquent tax-payers, for the ascertainment and enforcemet.of ,the rights, of the parties in regard to
these back taxes;unpaid.
Such a bill was fled 'and imp~rtant proceedings' /have. beenl
had under it.
-'A ..bill 'w p-.ending,: however, in :the "Cireuit Court of the
Unifpd States before'-the bill %authorizedby this, statute ,was
filed *which soughtt6 enforce the collection of'taxes by certain
* parties, to which the reoeivei of back taxes was afterwards
made* a defendant, -and u'nder that bill a'decree was rendered
* which treated the' main: provisions of this State legislation as
void. ,On appeal from that decree this court reversed it, and
announced certain, principles which upheld the validity of the
-legislation of the State, but maintained the power of courts
of the United Sta.tes to enforce against the receiver, and in his
hands; any decree or jadgment -bymandamus for levying and
-collecting taxes which had been made -bysuch couit prior to
the beginningotthi legislation.The. case, a'report of'which contains the fistory of this legislation and"the statutes above referredto, -is
that "of .XeMlwether.
v. Garret, 102 U. S. 472..
Section 5 of. the ac' last mentioned prqvided':with some
particularity for-the .receipt.by the back-tax collector,'in payment of these back taxes, of certain classes of outstinding indebtedness of the city of Memphis, and fixed the rate, -not F'

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion: of the Court.

ways the same, at which they might be received, chiefly at the
rate of fifty cents on payment of taxes for each dollar of
indebtedness.

-

The collection of these taxes and their distribution continued
under the supervision of the Court of Chancery in the suit
already mentioned, and many orders and decrees on the subject
'were made.
The State in the meantime passed statutes which authorized
the taxing district to compromise the indebtedness of the city
of Memphis, by taking up its old obligations and issuing bonds
of the taxing district at the rate of fifty cents of the latter for
one dollar of the former.
The two statutes on this subject, which are supposed to violate the Constitution of the United States, were passed March
23, 1883.
One of these acts, ch. 170, of the acts of that year, authorizes all municipal corporations and taxing districts to compromise and settle their debts, and to issue the bonds and coupons
of taxing districts at the rate of fifty per cent. of the principal and past due interest; and a section of the act is as fol.
lows:
"ยง 16. Be it further enacted, That the acceptance and consummation by any creditor of the compromise provided by
this act shall of itself operate to assign and transfer to said
municipal corporation or taxing district all his rights to and
claims against the uncollected taxes or other assets whatever
of said municipal corporation, with the right in said municipal
corporation or taxing district to enforce the same, either in its
own name or in the name of the creditor; the funds that may
be realized therefrom to be paid into the designated depository
of such municipality or'taxing district; and they are hereby
devoted and appropriated exclusively, to the payment of the
bonds and coupons thai come under the provisiofis of this
act."
The other statute passed the same day is an act modifying
the provision of ch. 92, March 13, 1879, as to what shall be
received in payment of back taxes; and the rate at which the
various items of debt should be received. One of these changes,

AMY v.. HELBY COUNTY ,TAXING DISTIIICT. 091
Opinion of the Court.
made in evident relation to the .act passed, the same day for
refunding this old indebtedneskty bonds.of the taxing district,
is in these words: "And'rov&eSdfarterpThat when any indebtedness of such extinct municipality shall be hereafter
funded into new bonds at fifty cents on the dollar, such new
bonds and'imatured coupons thereon shall be received in pay
ment of the back taxes due such extinct municipality at the
same rate as herein .provided for Flippin compromise bonds."
The Flippin compromise bonds were to bd received at double
their face value.
The obvious reason for this was that both the. Flippin compromise bonds and the bonds to 'be issued under the new act
just passed, represented two dollars of old- debt for one dollar
on the face of the new bonds; and this new regulation wqs
making all old indebtedness receivable at par. It was necessary, therefore, in order to place the holders of Flippin bonds
who had compromised this old debt for fifty cents on the dollar, and those who might do the same under the new statute
just passed at the same rate, on an equality with those who
still held the old debt uncbanged, to make this difference in the
rate at which they might be received for back taxes.
It is the decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee holding
this legislation valid which is assigned for error, and the principal error in the case.
The plaintiffs in error are parties who held and still hold
debts against the City of Memphis, which were not secured by
a lien or claim on any tax specially assessed for their payment.
Their debts belonged to the unpreferred class. While a large
part of the debt of the city during the time between the first
and- latest enactments we have mentioned was satisfied by
using it in payment of back taxes at the rate of two dollars
for one, or by exchanging it for the new bonds of the taxing
district, the parties now complaining did neither, but Wtill held
their old bonds with accumulated interest. 'It is to be ob
served, also, that the special taxes assessed under writs of mandamus to pay judgments prior to the repealing law could only
be paid in money, and as fast as it was paid it was appropri-,
ated to the payment of the debts for wh:Lzh it was specifically

OCTOBER TERT, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

assessed. And so also of all taxes assessed for any special purpose.
One result of this process was that the back taxes were
gradually being paid and satisfied by exchange for this old indebtedness, whereby the holders of it, who sold it to tax-payers
to be used for that purpose, were getting something for it, and
both the indebtedness and the back taxes were being extinguished by a process of set-off. For, when a tax debtor became by purchase an owner of any part of this debt, the extinguishment of the tax and the debt was clearly within the
doctrine of set-off of mutual obligations.
When, however, the back-tax receiver began to receive in
payment, under the law of 1883, the new bonds of the taxing
district, issued in compromise of the old indebtedness, these
plaintiffs in error insisted that this could not be done to their
prejudice; and by a petition to the Chancery Court they
prayed its interference to prevent it. As the language of the
statute was plain, they insisted. that it was void, because forbidden by the Constitution of the United States. The Supreme
Court of the State held the law to be valid, and hence this writ
of error.
The assignment of errors in plaintiffs' brief points out no
special provision of the Constitution which forbids the legislation of Tennessee complained of, which, it is to be remembered,
is only the more recent statutes we have referred to.
The language of the brief, as repeated in several forms, is,
that the court erred because it did not hold that these statutes,
as construed by the court, were a violation of the Constitution
of the United States, and divested the rights of plaintiffs as set
out in their petition.
This expression, when the argument in its support is examined, resolves itself into the proposition that chapter 92 of the
acts of 1879 conferred on them some right, which they insist
became a vested right, of which right they have been deprived
by the later act.
But we do not see what right was vested in them by that
statute. It is to be remembered that tkeir debts did not belong
to any class which at the time the statute was passed consti-

AMY v. SHELBY COUNTY: TAXING DISTRICT. 393
Opinion of the Court.
tuted a lien on any part of these back taxes. Such liens as did
exist, or such vested rights in any special class of taxes as then
existed, were carefully preserved by the statute, and these
taxes could only by its terms be collected in money, and used
to discharge these liens or special claims. It gave no lien of
the general debtor on the back taxes, or any part of them. It
provided for their collection, and for their use when collected,
in payment of the debts of the city. In this respect it did not
change any existing law, but provided the means of enforcing
the rights of the creditors of the city against its assets.
The legislature having assumed charge of the property of the
defunct corporation, and undertaken to administer its assets,
passed judicious laws for this purpose, and it is not asserted
that the original act which allowed the use of the debt of the
city in payment of the taxes was unjust, though it required
two dollars of the former in satisfaction of one of the latter.
All holders of the general city debt were placed on equality in
this respect. Plaintiffs here could have used their debt or disposed of it in that manner as others did. The State did not
come under any obligdtion to pay their debt, except as it coul"Y
be paid in this manner, and it did not guarantee that the back
taxes, whether paid in this manner or in any other, would give
it a fund sufficient to pay all back indebtedness. It only undertook to do the best it could with the means it had.
-The legal and equitable right in a general way of a debtor
to procure the obligations of his creditor and use them as a
set-off for his own debt, will hardly be denied when the law of
the State authorizes it, and such a law can be liable to no impeachment as divesting yested rights or impairing the obligation of contracts. Blount v. 1iV~dley, 95 U. S. 173. Both the
original act, ch. 92, and the two acts of 1883, did this. The
fact that the later acts made a change in the rate at which this
set-off should be allowed did. no injustice to plaintiffs, but rather
favored them, since it permitted their debt, with its accumulated interest, to be set off, dollar for dollar, whereas this could
only be done before at two dollars for one. It did them no
injustice, and violated no right of theirs, nor any contract of
theirs, that the new bonds exchanged for old indebtedness

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

should be receivable for back taxes at the same rate that the
old indebtedness would have been received if no exchange had
been made.
We see no vested right of plaintiffs which is violated by the
decree, no contract of theirs impaired by the legislation complained of, and no injustice done them, and especially none
which this court can remedy.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is, therefore,
Affirmed.

HUNTLEY v. HUNTLEY & Another.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Argued March 17, 18, 1885.-Decided April 6, 185.
C. bought an undivided one'third interest in a stage company, intending that
S. should have one-half of the one-third, and, before the purchase, informed
S. of such intention. At the time there was an unsettled account between
C. and S., in respect of servicas rendered by S. to C., and of certain business
in which they-were both interested. After the purchase, C. agreed verbally
with S. that S. should have the one-sixth at the price C. had paid for it,
any amount due by C. to S. to be applied towards payment for the onesixth, the ownership of it by S. to commence at once. Afterwards, the
four owners of the property, of whom S. and C. were two, executed a paper,
under seal, in which the interests of the four were defined, S. and C. being
stated to be the owners of one-third ; and all, including C., thereafter recognized S. as owning one-sixth, subject, as between S. and C., to the liability of S. to reimbgrse C. what he had paid for such one-sixth : Held,
(1.) The contract was executed, and S. was put in possession, and the statute
of frauds, 29 Car. 2, ch. 3, ยง 17* did not apply.
(2.) S. was entitled to have credit, on his purchase of the one-sixth, for what
C. owed him on the accounts aforesaid : and C. was entitled to recover from
S. the residue of what he had paid for the one-sixth.

This was a bill in equity for an account and for other relief.
For several years prior to June 27, 1874, the appellee,
Charles C. Hfuntley, was engaged .on numerous routes in the
West and Northwest in the business of transporting the mails

