DOE v. HYDE.
Syllabus.

Without reference to the ground stated by the Circuit Court
as that on which it dismissed the bill, we are of opinion that

the dismissal was proper. The matters of fact averred in the
answer, as above set forth, are established by the evidence. It
is shown that Weaver never acquired any title to the notes as
owner, or as holder of them as security for any indebtedness
from Field, Senior, to him, and that he received them from
Field, Senior, as agent, to raise or advance money on, for, or to
Field, Senior, and failed to do so, and retained them tortiously,
and without the assent of Field, Senior. When Weaver first,
ih February, 1878, took legal proceedings to enforce the mortgage, Field, Senior, m the petition in the suit he brought
against Weaver,-in 3\{arch, 1878, more than three years before
Weaver died, to restrain Weaver's proceedings, denied that
Weaver held or owned the notes, and alleged, in substance,
'the same facts set up in the answer in the present suit. We
have carefully considered the argument on the factsmade on
the part of the appellants, but do not deem an extended opinion upon them necessary The property in the hands of the
grantees was bound only to the extent it was bound in the
hands of the mortgagor, and only to respond to a lawful holder
of the notes.

.Decaree atfflmed.

DOE v. HYDE, Assignee.
S

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF T-lY

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 31, 1885.-Decided April 1, 1885.

D, a creditor of a bankrupt, holding two securities therefor, after being cited
m a proceeding commenced against him by the assignee m bankruptcy, by
petition, to obtaiu the delivery of the two securities, as being unlawfully
m his possession, delivered up one of them to the assignee, in July, 1871.
In November, 1872, the assignee sued D to recover the other security. and
in 1877 it was decided in that suit that D was entitled to hold it. There
being a deficiency on the debt, and the assignee having collected the security
delivered to him, D, in 1879. sued the assgne3 to have its proceeds applied

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the *Court.
on the debt: eld, That- the right of action accrued to D in July, 1871,
and was barred by the two years' limitation prescribed in ยง 2 of the 8ankruptcy Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 518, and.ยง 5057 Rev. Stat.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr.W. W. Cope for appellant.
Mn. JusTIcE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an .appeal by Bartlett Doe, the plaintiff in a suit in
equity brought in the District Court of the United States for
the District of California, from a decree of the Circuit Court
for that district, affirming the decree of the District Court,
dismissing the bill, on demurrer. The defendant is Henry C.
Hyde, assignee in bankruptcy of the City Bank of Savings,
Loan and Discount, a California corporation, which was adjudicated a bankrupt by the District Court in December, 1870.
The case made by the bill is this: In December, 1869, Doe
lent to the bank $10,000, on its promissory note, at two years,
secured by the assignment of six promissory notes and six accompanying mortgages of real estate, made by other parties,
amounting to $20,550. By an instrument executed by the parties at the time, it was agreed that the bank should be at liberty to substitute other securities of equal, value with any of
the assigned notes and mortgages, in their place, at any time
before the maturing of the $10,000 note. In April, 1870, four
of the six collateral notes and mortgages, amounting to $10,550,
were, by consent, given up, and three other promissory notes
and three like mortgages, made by other parties, amounting to
$3,900, were substituted. In February, 1871, the assignee in
bankruptcy presented to the District Court a petition, alleging
that Doe had unlawfully possessed himself of the five notes
and five mortgages which he theb, held, amounting to $13,900,
and praying that he be cited to show -cause why he should not
be ordered to deliver them up to the assignee. After Doe had
been so cited, the assignee demanded from him the delivery of
the three notes and the three mortgages so substitutd in April,
1870, and Doe, "believing him to be entitled to the custody
thereof, delivered the same to him." tefore the assignee col-

DOE v. H-YD.E.
Opinion of the Court.

lected any moneys on them Doe appeared to the petition, and
in July, 1871, filed an answer, setting forth the indebtedness of
the bank to him, and'how it was secured, and the facts attending the substitution of securities, before mentioned, and averring that he was entitled to the possession of those which he
had so delivered to the assignee, and to the moneys collected
or which might be collected on them. In November, 1872;
the assignee filed a bill in equity, in the District Court, against
Doe, to obtain a decree for the delivery up of the two remaining notes and mortgages, amounting to $10,000, on the gr6und
that the bank had no right to transfer them to Doe. 'Doe answered the bill, setting forth the transactions between the bank
and himself respecting the loan and the securities transferred
for securing it, and particularly the facts attending such substitution of securities'; and averring that the a~signee had collected the money due on the securities so delivered to him, and
that he, Doe, was entitled to have them applied on the debt of
the bank to him. In 1876, an interlocutory decree 'was made,
in that suit, to the effect that the assignee was entitled only to
the surplus which should remain after ipplying the two notes
and the two mortgages to the payment of the $10,000 note, of
December, 1869, and that an accounting should be had as to
the amounts severally due on that note, and .on those securities. The accounting was bad, and on January 29, 187t, thie
District Court decreed that on January 1, 1877, there was a
balance due to Doe of $7,096.82, after applying the securities
retained by him.' The assignee appealed to the Circuit Court,
but the appeal was dismissed, for want of prosecution; before
July.2, 1877. The amount of the deficiency remains due to Doe.
The assignee collected the three notes and three mortgages
which Doe -delivered to him, collecting on-one, June 19,1872,,
$1,301.07; on another, May 19, 1875, $500; and on the third,
June 19, 1872, $293.80, the assignee giving the. debtor an acquittance of the remainder. After the decree was rendered in
the equity suit begun in November, 1872, and after the appeal
therefrom was disniissed, and after Doe had ascertained it
would be necessary to resort to the three notes and three
mortgages he had delivered to the assignee, for the payment

2,50 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of the amount due to him from the bank, he demanded from
'the assignee the delivery of those securities, or the payment of
the moneys thereby secured, which the assignee refused.
The bill in the present suit was filed February 25, 1879. Its
prayer is for a decree that. Doe is the beneficial owner of the
securities which he delivered to the assignee, and of the moneys
represented by them, and is entitled to have them applied on
the indebtedness of the bank to him, and that the assignee pay
over the proceeds, with interest, to Doe. The demurrer sets
forth various causes of demurrer, and, among them, that eight
years had elapsed; before the bill was filed, after Doe delivered
to the assignee the securities in question, and that any right of
action to recover them or their proceeds was barred by ยง 2 of
the Bankruptcy Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 518, and by
,ยง 5057 Rev. Stat. The limitation referred to is, that no suit at
law or in equity shall in any case be maintainable- by or
against an assignee in bankruptcy, or by or against any person
claiming an adverse interest touching any. property, or rights
of property, of the bankrupt, transferable to or vested in the
assignee, in any court Whatsoever, unless the same be brought
within two years from the time the cause of action accrued,
for or against the assignee.
The contention of the appellaiit is, that the necessity for resorting to the securities which were delivered to the assignee
was not determined until the decree of the District Court,
ascertaining the amount of the deficiency, became final by the
dismissal of the appeal to the Circuit Court; and that the cause
of action did not accrue until that time, which.was within two
years before the filing of this bill. It does not distinctly 6 ppear when the appeal was taken, or when it was dismissed,
except that those event' occurred between January 29, 1877,
and July 2, 1,77. But'this is unimportant, .because it is quite
clear, on the averments of the bill, that this suit was barred.
In the proceeding instituted in the District Court, by the
assignee, in February, 1871, the petition alleged that Doe had
unlawfully possessed himself of all of the collateral notes and
mortgages, five of each, which he then held, and prayed for an
order that he deliver all of them up to'the assignee. The bill

DOE v. .HYDE.
Opinion of the Court.

in this suit avers that after Doe had been cited to appear to
the petition, the assignee applied to him for, and demanded
the delivery to him, as assignee, Qf, -the three notes and three
mortgages in question, and that Doe, " believing him to be entitled to the custody thereof, delivered the same to him." As
the bill alleges thatthe answer of Doe to the petition was filed
before the assignee collected'any of the moneys on those securities, it- must be inferred that that answer was filed after the
securities were delivered by Doe. Nothing further is alleged
to have been done on the petition. The three notes and thethree mortgages selected from the whole number, though the
petition covered all, haing been delivered to the assignee, he
allowed the matter to rest from July, 1871, till November, 1872;
when he brought the equity suit in respect only of the two
notes and two mortgages which had not been delivered to him.
The averment of the bill in this suit is, that, on-a demand by-the
assignee on Doe foa the delivery to him of the three notes and
three mortgages, Doe delivered them to him. It is not averred
that the delivery was accompanied by any expressed qualification or condition, or any agreement or arrangement or reservation made between the parties. The delivery followed the
claim which the assignee had made in the petition, that the
securities were unlawfully in the possession of Doe, and was
made after Doe had been cited to appear to the petition. The
statement in the bill that Doe, believing the assignee to be en-titled to the cutody of the securities, delivered them to him, is
only the statement of what Doe now remembers as to the uncommunicated motives which operated on him to deliver the
securities. The assignee obtained the securities directly from
Doe, under an assertion of title, and, if Doe desired to make
ayailable the claim set up in regard to them, in July, 1871, in
his answer to the petition, it became then his duty to procure
a judicial decision of the matter, the assignee having accomplished the object of his proceeding. But the litigation
dropped, and was not renewed, respecting those securities,
The allegation of Doe, in his answer to. the bill filed by the
assignee in November, 1872, in regard to the securities retained
by Doe, that Doe was entitled to have the assignee apply on

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the debt to Doe the securities which Doe had delivered to the
assignee, amounted to nothing, because such a claim could not
be litigated in that suit. It was not a set-off or counter-claim
to any relief sought by the assignee in that suit. The cause of
action in regard to the securities delivered to the assignee by
Doe accrued to Doe at the time of such delivery. It did not
depend upon or arise from the existence or ascertainment .of
any deficiency of the other securities to meet the debt. If Doe
was entitled at all to have the securities which were delivgred to
the assignee applied to his debt, he was, on the showing of
the bill, as much entitled to have them so applied as to have
the other securities so applid, and as much entitled to their
possession for that purpose as to the possession of the other
securities. His right of action to that effect accrued, therefore, when the assignee came into the possession of the securities,
on.their delivery to him by Doe.
Decree a/firmed.

BISSELL v. FOSS & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE cIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued March 11, 12, 18&5.-Decided April 6, 1886.

There is no relation of trust or confidence between mining partners, which is
violated by the sale and assignment by one partner of his share in the company assets and business to one or more of his associates, without the
knowledge of the other associates.
The record in this case discloses no equitable reason why the defendants in
error, who purchased the intetest of third parties in a mine in which all
were jointly interested with the plaintiff in error, should be held bound to
share with the.plaintiff in error the interest so purchased.

This was a suit in equity. The facts which make the case
are stated in the opinion of the court.
. Joltn F. Dillon [3fr. Z. C. Rockwell was with him on
the brief] for appellant.

