*VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in White v. Greenhovr.

WHITE v. GREENHOW, Treasurer.

IN

ERROR TO THE ciCurr COURT OF THE .UNIED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

This case falls within the decision in Poindextek v. Green7ww, and is decided
by it, ante, 270.

_Y.

WTillian L. Boyall, -Yr. -Danied H. M7berlain [-r.

William B. Hornblowerwas ivith him on the briefl, .Mr. Wager
Swayne, and Xr. William X. Evdrts for plaintiff in error.
k. F.
F S. Blair,Attorney-General of the State of Virginia,
-1r.Richard T. Xerro1, and Xr. Attorney-General for defendantdn error.

MR. JUSTIE M rrHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, brought his
action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia against the defendant, both being citizens
of that State. The declaration, in substance, sets out that the
plaintiff, owning property in the City of Richmond, was
assessed thereon for~the year 1882 for certain taxes to be paid
to the State of Virginia, leviable. for after December 1, 1882;
that the defendant was treasurer of the City of Richmond, and,
as such, collector of taxes due to the State'assessed on property
in that city; that plaintiff tendered to the defendant, on demand
being made for payment of said taxes, the amount thereof in
coupons cut from bonds issaed by the State of Virginia under
the act of March 30, 1871, entitled "AnAct to provide for the
funding and payment of the public debt," ivhich coupons, by
the terms of said act, -were receivable in payment of taxes by
virtue of a contract with the State of Virginia; that the defendant refused to receive said coupons, under color of the authority of the act of the General Assembly of the State of Virginia,
passed January 26, 1882, which forbade him to receive the
same; that the defendant, after refusal of said tender, forcibly
and unlawfully entered the premises of the plaintiff, and levied

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion in White v. Greenhow.

upon and seized and carried away personal property of the
plaintiff of the value of $3,000, in order to sell the same for
the satisfaction of said taxes, which he claimed to be unpaid
and delinquent; that the acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, specified in the pleadings, which require the tax collecto?
to refuse to receive such coupons in payment of taxes, and to
proceed with the collection of taxes, for the payment of which
they have been tendered, as if they were delinquent, impair the
obligation of the said contract between the State of Virginia
and the plaintiff ;' and that by reason of the said wrongs the
plaintiff has suffered damage in the sum of $6,000, for which
he brings suit.
To this declaration the defendant demurred, generally, the
demurrer was sustained, and judgment was rendered for the
defendant. The plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
All the questions raised and argued upon the merits of this
case have been fully considered in the opinion of the court in
the case of Poindexterv. Greenhow, ante, 270.

The present action, as shown on the face of the declaration,
was a case arising under the Constitution of the United States,
and was one, therefore, of which the Circuit Court 'of the
United States had rightful jurisdiction by virtue of the act of
March, 3, 1875, without regard to the citizenship of the parties,
the sum or value in controversy being in excess of $500.
In conformity with the views expressed in the opinion in
Poinderterv. G'reenhow,
.Tejudgment in the pesent case is reversed and the cause is
remanded, with directionstoprogeed therein in conformity
with law.
MR. JusmcF BRADLEY, with whom concurred The CmnE- JusMR. JUSTiCE MiLLEn and MR. JUsTIcE GRAY, dissented-

Trc,

Their dissenting opinion will be found, post, page 330, after the
opinion in MARlxn v. PAusows.

