OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement 6f Facts.

THOMSON & Others v. WOOSTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 1,2, 1884.-Decided March 30, 1888.
Under the rules and practice of this court in equity a decree pro confesso is
not a decree as of course according to the prayer of the bill, nor as the
complainant chooses to make it; but it should be made by the court according
to what-is proper to be decreed upon the statements of the bill, assumed to
be true.
The difference between former rules in equity and those now in force pointed
out.

Whether, after a bill is taken pro confesso, the defendant is entitled to an
order permitting him to appear before the master is not now decided.
After entry of a decree pro confesso, and while it stands unrevoked, the defendant cannot set up anything in opposition to it, either below, or in this
court on appeal, excepf what appears on the face of the bill.
In a suit in equity to restrain the infrihgement of a patent and for an account,
the defendant cannot question the validity of the patent after a decree pro
confesso establishing its validity.
A delay in applying for the reissue of a patent which appears on the face of
the proceedings,-and which, unexplained, might be regarded as unreasonable, cannot be set up against the patent by a defendant after a decree pro
oonfesso has been taken in a suit inequity which is founded on and sets up
the patent and seeks to restrain him from infringing it.
It is irregular to introduce, pending an appeal, an original patent not introduced below.,
AffidaVits before a master or the court below as grounds of application to reopen proofs, form no part of the evidence before the court ,onappeal.
In proceedings before a master, after the bill in a suit to restrain infringement
of a patent has been taken pro confesso, it is not proper to inquire into the
cost of producing a result 1y other processes or machines; the proper inquiry relates to the profits enjoyed by defendants'by reason of using the
patented invention.

The 'appellee in this case, who was complainant below, fied
his bill against the appellants, complaining that they infringed
certain letters patent for an impr6ved folding guide for sewing
machines, granted to one Alexander Douglass, of which the
complainant was the assignee. The patent was dated October
5, 1858, was extended for seven years in 1872, and was re-

THOMSON v. WOOSTER.
Statement of Facts.

issued in December, 1872. The suit was brought on the reissued patent, a copy of which was annexed to the bill, which
contained allegations that the invention patented had gone
into extensive use, not only on the part of the complainant, but
by his licensees; and that many suits had been brought and
sustained against infringers. The bill further alleged that the
defendants, from the time when'the patent was reissued down
to the commencement of the suit, wrongfully and without
license, made, sold and used, or caused to be made, sold and
used, one or more folding guides, each and all containing the
said improvement secured to the complainant by the said reissued letters patent, and that the defendants derivedi great
gain and profits from such use, but to what amount the complainant was ignorant, and prayed a disclosure thereof, and an
account of profits, and damages, and a perpetual injunction.
The bill of complaint was accompanied with affidavits verifying the principal facts and certain decrees or judgments obtained on the patent against other parties, and Douglass's
original application for the patent, made in April, 1856, a copy
of which was annexed to the affidavits. These affidavits and
documents were exhibited for the purpese of obtaining a preliminary injunction, which was granted on notice.
The defendants appeared to the suit by their solicitor, May
3, 1879, but neglected to file any answer, or to make any defence to the bill, and a rule that the bill be taken pro confesso
was entered in regular course June 10, 1879. Thereupon, on
the 2d of August, 1879, after due notice and hearing, the
court made a decree to the following effect, viz.: 1st. That the
letters-patent sued on were good and valid in law: 2d. That
Douglass was the'first and original inventor of the invention
described and claimed therein: 3d. That the defendants had
infringed the same by making, using and vending to others to
be used, without right or license, certain folding guides substantially as described in said letters patent: 4th. That the
complainant recover of the defendants the profits which they
had derived by reason of such infringement by any manufacture,
use or sale, and any and all damages which the complainant
had sustained thereby; and it was referred to a master to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

and state an account of said profits, and to assess said damages,
with directions to the -defendants to produce their books and
papers and submit to an oral examination if required. It was
also decreed that a perpetual injunction issue to restrain the
defendants from making, using, or vending any folding guides
made as theretofore used by them, containing any of the inventions described and claimed in the patent, and from infringing the patent in any way.
Under this decree the parties went before the master, and
the examination was commenced in October, 1879, in the
presence of counsel for both parties, and was continued from
time to ti/ne until November 3, 1880, when arguments were
heard upon the matter, and the case was submitted. On November 12th the report was 'prepared and submitted to the
inspectioli of counsel. On the 18th motion was made by the
defendants' counsel, before the master, to open the proofs and
for leave to introduce newly .discovered evidence. This motion
was supported by affidavits, but was overruled by the master,
and his report was filed December 10, 1880, in which it was
found and stated that the defendants had used at various times,
from January 18, 1877, to the commencement of the suit,
twenty-seven folding guides infringing the complainant's patent, and had folded 1,217,870 yards of goods by their use, and
that during that period there was no means known or used, or
open to the public to use, for folding such goods in the same,
or substantially the same manner, other than folding them by
hand, and that the saving -in cost to the defendants by using
the folding guides was three cents on each piece of six yards,
making the amount of profit which the complainant was entitled to recover, $6,089.35 ; and that during the same period
the complainant depended upon license fees for his compensation for the use of the pifeinted device, and that the amount of
such fees constituted his loss or damage for the unauthorized
use of his invention: and that, according to the established
fees, the defendants would have been liable to pay for the use
of the folding guides used by them during the years 1877,
1878 and 1879 (the peri6d covered by the infringement), the
sum of $1,350, which was the. amount of the complainant's

THOMSON v. WOOSTER.
Statement of Facts.

damages. The evidence taken by the master was filed with
his report,
By a supplemental report, filed at the same time, the master
stated the fact of the application made to him to open the
proofs on the ground of surprise and newly discovered evidence (as before stated), and that after hearing said application
upon the affidavits presented (which were appended to the report), he was unable to discover any just ground therefor.
The defendants did not object to. this supplemental report,
but on the 10th of January, 1881, .they fied exceptions to the
principal report, substantially as follows:
1. That instead of the double guide or folder claimed in the
complainant's patent being the only means for folding cloth or
strips on each edge during the period of the infringement (other
than that of folding by hand), the master should have found
that such strips could have been folded by means of a single
guide or folder, and that the use of such guides was known and
open to the public long before 187, and that such guides were
not embraced in the complainant's patent.
2. That the amount of profits found by the master was
erroneous, because it appeared that folded strips such as those
used by the defendants were an. article of merchandise, cut and
folded by different parties at a charge of 25 cents for 144
yards.
3. That the profits'should not have been found greater than
the saving made by the use of the double guide as compared
with the use of a single guide, or greater than the amount for
which the strips could have been cut and"folded by persons
doing such business.
4. That the damages found were erroneous.
Other exceptions were subsequently filed, but were overruled
for being filed out of time.
Before the argument of the exceptions the defendants gave
notice of a motion to the court to refer the cause back to the
master to take further testimony in reference to the question
of profits and damages chargeable against them under the order
of reference. In support of this motion further affidavits were
presented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

The exceptions to the report and the application to refer the
cause back to the. master were argued together. The court
denied the motion to refer the cause back, overruled the exceptions to the report, and made a decree in favor of the complainant for the profits, but disallowed the damages. That
decree the respondents brought here by appeal.
They assigned fourteen reasons for appeal, of which the first
nine related to the proceedings before the master and his report, and the last five to the validity of the reissued patents.
ATr. J. C. Clayton and .1r. A. Q. Keasbey for appellants.On the poihats relatin .tothe invalidity of the patent, and their
right to question it after the bill had been taken pro confesso,
they contended that many defences had been entertained in
this court, either sua sponte, or upon argument here, although
not made in the court below, nor contained in the pleadings:
notably the defence of lack of invention, or non-patentability.
Brown v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37; fflawson v. Grand Street Railroad Co., 107 U. S. 649. The- decree below being a decree by
default, as pro confessoi and not a consent decree, this defence
is open, though the issue was not tendered below. Even a
consent decree may be appealed from. PacifcRailroad Co. v.
Fetcham, 101 U. S.289. There can be no doubt that anything
appearing upon the record which would have been fatal upon
" motionA in arrest of judgment, i equally fatal on a writ of
error. ;Slocum v. Pomery, 6 Cranch. 221. See also .fcAllister .Kuhn, 96 U. S.87. Having, then, the right to raise the
question here, it is claimed'(1) That/the reissue was invalid
because it was for different and other inventions than the one
described in the original patent. (2) That it is invalid because
it is unlaivfully expanded after unreasonable delay, more than
fourteen years having elap-sed between the grant of the ori'inal patent and the'"fling of the application for a reissue. See
-Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350; James v. Campbell, 104
T. S. 356; Bantz v. Franz, 105 U. S. 160; Turner & Sey.
mour Kfg. Co. v. Dover Starning Co., 111 U. S. 319. All
these cases were decided after the- appeal in this cause. They
estabilished a new rule of law,*requiring reasonable diligence,

THOMSON v. .VOOSTER.
Opini6n of the Court.

and clearly show that complainant's reissue granted fourteen
years and two months after date of original patent is void as
to these defendants. If it be objected that the original patent
was not offered in evidence below, appellants'should be allowed
to file it here, which they offer to do. (3) The reissue was invalid because the thing patented lacked invention.* Dunbar v.
MWe%, 94 U. S. 187. (4) The bill avers that during the fourteen years of the origindl term of the patent the validity of
said letters patent was established in numerous suits in the
Circuit Courts of the United States, and that all persons sued
took. licenses and paid therefor, as well as many others, not
sued. Thereby averring, in substance, that the original letters
patent were valid and operative. The original letters patent
having been thus valid and operative, as averred by complainant, for over fourteen years, no reissue thereafter could be
legally obtained, because invalidity or inoperativeness are conditions precedent to the grant of a reissue. See Whiteley v.
Swayne, 4 Fish. 117, 123;, Wcks v. Stevens, 2 Ban. & A. 318;
Giant Powder Co. v. J7 igorit Powder Co., 6 Sawyer, 508;
Flower v. Rayner, 5 Fed. Rep. 793; Sears v. Bouton, 12 Fed.
Rep. 625.
Mr. Frederic H Betts for appellee.
M . JUSTICE BRAbLEy delivered, the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
The appellants have assigned fourteen' reasons or grounds
for reversing the decree. The first nine relate to the taking of
the account before the master and his report thereon; the last
five relate to the validity of the letters patent on which the
suit was brought. It will be convenient to consider the last
reasons first.
The bill, as we have seen, -was taken Pro cofesso, and a decree pro confesso was regularly entered up, declaring that the
letters patent -were valid, that Douglass was the original inventor of the invention therein described and claimed, that the
defendants were infringing the patent, and that they must

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

account to the complainant for the profits made by them by
such infringement and for the damages he had sustained
thereby; and it was referred to a master to take and state an
account of such profits and to ascertain said damages.
The defendants are concluded by that decree, so far at least
as it is supported by the allegations of the bill, taking the same
to be true. Being carefully based on these allegations, and not
extending beyond them, it cannot now be questioned by the
defendants unless it is shown to be erroneous by other statements contained in the bill itself. A confession of facts properly pleaded dispenses with proof of those facts, and is as effective for th purposes of the suit as if the facts were proved4
and a decree pro qonfesso regards the statements of the bill as'
confessed.
By the early practice of the civil law, failure to appear at
the day to which the cause was adjourned was deemed a confession of the action; but in later times this rule was changed,
so -that the plaintiff, notwithstanding the contumacy of the
defendant, ohly obtained judgment in accordance with the
truth of the case as established by an ex parte examination.
Keller, Proced. Rom. § 69. The original practice of the English Court of Chancery was in accordance with the later Roman law. Hawkins v. Crook, 2 P. Wins. 556. But for at
least two centuries past bills have been taken pro confesso for
contumacy. Ibid. Chief Baron Gilbert says: "Where a m~an
appears by his clerk in court, and after lies in prison, and is
brought up three times to court by habeas corpus, and has the
bill read to him, and refuses to answer, such public refusal in
court does amount to the confessioAi of the whole bill. Secondly,
when a person appears .and departs without answering, and the
whole process of the court has been awarded against him after
his appearance and depatf-ue, to the sequestration; there also
the bill is takenpro eonfesso, because it is presumed to -betrue
when he has appeared and departs in despite of. the court and
withstands all its process 'without answering." Forum Romanum, 36. Lord flardwicke likened a decree pro Confesso to
a judgment by nil dicit at common law, and to judgment for
plaintiff on demurrer to the defendant's plea. Davis v. -Davis,

THOMSON v. WOOS.ER.
Opinion of the Court.

2 Atk. 21. It was said'in Bawimns v. Crook, qua sura,-and,
quoted in 2 Eq. Qa. "Ab.179, that' "The method in equity of'
taking a bill pro confesso is cQnsonant to the rule and practice
of the courts at law, where, if the defendant makes default by
nil dicit, judgment is immediately given ,in
debt, or in all *cases
where the thing demanded is certain.; but where'the matter
sued for consists in damages, a judgment interlocutory is given;
after which a writ of inquiry goep to ascertain the damages,
and then the judgment follows." The strict analogk of this
proceeding in actions of law to a general decree 7pro confesso
in equity in favor of the complainant, with a reference, to a
master to take a necessary account, or to assess unliquidated"
damages, is obvious and striking.
A carefully prepared history of the practice and effe6t of
taking bills _Mo confesso is given in Williams v. Cowin,
Hopkins Oh. 471, by Hoffman, mater, in a 'report made to,
Chancellor' Sanford, of New York; in which the conclusion
come to (and dopted by, the Chancellor), as to the effect of .
taking a bllpro confesso, was that "when the allegations of a*
bill are distinct and positive, and the bill is taken as confessed,
such allegations are taken as true without proofs," and a decree,
will be made accordingly; but "where the allegations of. a
bill are indefinite, or the demand bf 'the complainant is in its
nature uncertain, the certainty requisite to a proper decree
must be afforded-by proofs. The bill, when confessed by the
default of the defendant, is taken to be true -in all matters
alleged with sufficient certainty; but in respect to matters 'not
alleged with due certainty,.or subjects which .from their nature
-and the course of the court require' an ,examination of details, the obligation to furnish proofs rests on the complainant."
We'may properlf sy,' therefoe, that to take a billpro confJeso is.to order it to stand as if its statements were confessed
to be.true; and that a decree pro confesso is a decree based on
such statements, assumed to be true, I Smith's Oh. Pract. 153,
and such a decree is as binding and conclusive as any. decree
rendered in the most solemn manner. "It cannot be impeached collaterally, but only upon a bill of review, or [a billJ

.OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
1 Daniell Ch. Pr. 696, 1st Ed. ;*
to set it aside for fraud.
563.
Ogilvie v. Jerne,,13 Yes.
Such being the general nature and effect of an order taking
a bill pro confetso, and of a decree pro confesso regularly made
thereon7, we are prepared to understand- the full force of our
rules. of practice on the subject. Those rules, of course, are to
govern so far as they apply; but the effect and meaning of the
terms which they employ are necessarily to be sought in the
books of authority to which we have referred.
By our rules a decree pro confesso may be had if the defendant, on being served with process, fails to appear within
the time required; or if, having appeared) he fails to plead,
demur or answer to the bill within the time limited for that
purpose; or, if he fails to answer after a former plea, demurrer
or answer is overruled or declared insufficient. The 12th Rule
in Equity prescribes the time when the subpcena shall be made
returnable, and directs that "at the bottom of the subpcena
shall be placed a memorandum, that the defendant is to enter
his appearance in the suit in the clerk's office on or before uhe
day at which the writ is returnable; otherwise the bill may be
taken pro confesso." The 18th Rule requires the defendant to
file his plea, demurrer or answer (unless he gets an enlargement of the time) on the rule day next succeeding that of en*Note
by the Court.-Reference is made to the 1st Edition of Daniell (pub.
1837) as being, with the 2d Edition of Smithis Practice (published the same
year), the most authoritative work on English Chancery Practice in use in
March, 1842, when our Equity Rules were adopted. Supplemented by the
General Orders made by Lords Cottenbam and Langdale in August, 1841
(many of which were closely copied in our own Rules), they exhibit that
"present practice of the High Court of Chancery in England," which by our
90th Rule was adopted as the standard of equity practic in cases where the
Rules prescribed by this court, or by the Circuit Court, do not apply. The 2d
Edition of Mr. Daniell's work, published by Mr. Headlam in 1846, wds much
modified by the extensive changes introduced by the English Orders of May
8,1845 ; and the 3d Edition, by the still more radical changes introduced by
the Orders of April, 1850, the Statute of 15 & 16 Vict. c. 86, and the General
Orders afterwards made under the authority of that statute. Of course, the
subsequent editions of Daniell are still further removed 'from the standard
adopted by this court in 1842 ; but as they contain a view of the later decisions
bearing upon so much of the old system as remains, they have, on that account a value of their own, provided one is not misled by the new portions.

TROMSONP. WOOSTER.,
Opinion -of the Court.

tering.his

-ppearance;'
and in default thereof the plaintiff

may at his election, enter an ordlri"(as of course) in-the order
book, that the bill b6 taken pro confesso, and'thereupon 4fhe
cause, shall be proceeded, in ex parte,,andi the,matter of the
bill may be -decreed b.y the court at any tite after the expiration of thirty days Troil the entry of said order, if the same
can be done without an answer, and is prQper to be decre'd;
or -the plantiff, if he requir6s any discovery or answer to enable him to obtaiA -a prbper decree, shall bQ entitled to process
of attachment agailst the defendant toompel an ,answer, etcl,
And the 19th Rulb declares that the Iecree rendered upon a
bill taken pro ,confesso shall be deemed absolute, unless'the
court shall at the same term set aside th same, or enlarge the
time, for filing the answer, upon cause shown uppn motion and
affidavit of the defendant.,
ItAs thys seell that, by,our practice, a decree, prd confessois
not,' a d'eree ag of course abcording to-,the prayer of' t bhi]jI,
nor merely suph as the complainant chooses to take it; but
that it is made (or should be made) by the court, according, to
-Ahat is proper to be decreed upon;the statements of the bill,
assumed to be true. This gives it'the greater solemn,it' and
accords with the English practice, as well as that bf New York.'
Chancellor Kent, quotifig Lord Eldon, says: "Where the bill
is thus taken pro confesso, and the cause, is set: down for hbaring, the course (says Lord Eldon, in Geary v. Sheridan,,8,Ves.
192,) is' for the court to hear the pleadifigs) and. itself to pronounce the decree, and not to permit the plaintiff to take, at
his own discretion, such a decree as he could abid- by,. as in'
thelcase .of default by the defendant at the hearing."- RFose v.
Wooduf, 4 Johns. Ch. 547, 548. Our rules do not require
the cause to be set down. for hearing at a regular term but,'
after the entry of the order to take the bill.pro confesso, the
.18th rule declares that thereupon the cause shall be piroceeded
in ex part , and the matter of the bill may be decreedby thecourt
at any time after the 'expiration of thirty days from the entry
of such order, if it can be done without aiswer, and'isPro"
to be decreed. This'language shows that the matter of the bill
ought at least to be opened and explained to.the court when
'

OL. CXIV-8

OCTOI3ER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the decree is applied for, so that the court may s6e that the
decree-is a proper one. The binding character of the decree,
as declared in Rule 19, renders it- proper that this degree of
precaution should be taken.
We have been more particular in examining this subject because of the attempt made by the defendants, on this appeal,
to overthrow the decree by matters out§ide of the bill, which
was regularly taken _Pro confesso. From the authorities cited,
and the express language of our own Rules in Equity, it seems
clear that the defendants, after the entry of the decree Pro
confesso, and whilst it stood unrevoked, were absolutely barred
and precluded from alleging anything in derogation of, or in
opposition to, the said decree, and that they are equally barred
and precluded from questioning its correctness here on appeal,
unless on the face of the bill it appears manifest that it was
erroneous and improperly granted. The attempt, on the hearing before the master, to show that the reissued patent was
for a different invention from that described in the orignal
patept, or to show that there was such unreasonable delay in
applying for it as to render it void under the recent decisions
of this court, was entirely inadmissible because repugnant to
the decree. The defendants could not be allowed to question
the validity of the patent which the decree had declared valid.
The fact that the reissue was applied for and granted fourteen
years after the date of the original patent would, undoubtedly,
had the cause been defended and the validity of the reissued
patent been controverted, been strongly presumptive of unreasonable delay; but it might possibly have been explained,
and the court c6uld not say as matter of law, and certainly,
under the decree of the court, the master could not say, that it
was. insusceptible of explanation. And on this appeal it is
surely irregular to question the allegations of the bill. If anything appears in those allegations themselves going to show
that the decree was erroneous, of course it is assignable for
error; but any attempt to introduce factsnot embraced in those
allegations, for the purpose of countervailing the decree, is
manifestly improper. The introduction of the original patent,
pending the appeal, .was clearly irregular.

THOMSON v. WOOSTER.•

115

Opition of the Court.

The appellants-have called attention to one mater in tke
allegations of the bill on which theyrely for the purpose ofshowing that, as matter of law, the reissued patent must
be void. It is stated- in their 10th assignment of error, as
follows:
"10th. For that, on the face of the bill and the patent, the
reissued patent in suit was illegally granted, and therefore void,
and the court should have so held; and this court is now asked
to so hold, because the bill avers that during the fourteen years
of the original term of the patent the validity of said .-letters
patent was established in numerous suits in the Circuit Courts
.ofthe United States, and that all persons sued' took licenses,
and paid therefor, as well as many others not sued, thereby
averring, in substance; that the original letters patent -were
valid and ojverative:
"Wherefore,. appellants ask this court to hold that the
original letters patent having been valid and oyerative, as
averred by complainant, for over fourteen years, no reissue
thereafter could be legally obtained,- because invalidity or inoperativeneos are conditions precedent td the grant 9 f a reissue."
The answer to this assignment is obvious. The suitsbrought
on the, original patent may have been for infringements committed against particular parts of the invention, or modes of
using it and putting it into operation, as to which the sp cification was clear, full and sufficient; whilst, at the same tine,
there may have been certain other parts of .the invention,- or
modes of using it and putting it into operation, as to which the"
specification was defective or insufficient, and- which were not
noticed until the application. for reissue was made; or, in the
original patent the patentee may have claimed as his ownf invention more than he had a right to claim as new-a' mistake
Which might be corrected at any time. At all events, -thecourt
cannot say, as mere matter of law, that this might not have
been the case.
We think that the objection to the decree going to the
validity of the patent, and the whole cause of action, cannbt
be sustained.

OCTOBER TER-,

1ss4.

Opinion of the Court.

We are then brought to the proceedings-in takning the ac.
count. The errors assigned on this part of the case are based
on the exceptions taken to the master's report, which hlave
already been noticed. They resolve themselves into two principal grounds of objection: First,that tlie master allowed the
complainant all the'profits made by the defendants by the use
of the patented machine in folding cloths and strips, as compared with doihig the same thing by hand; whereas be should
,only hve allowed the profits of using the. complainant's pat-i
ented'machine as compared, with a single folder, which -the defendants.allege was open to the pdblio before their infringe'
ment commenced. Seondly, that 'the niaster, in allowing
profits, took no account of the fact that folded strips, such as
those used- by the defendants, were an article of merchandise,
cpt and folded by-different parties at a charge of only 25 cents
for 144 yards, or. about one-'sixth of a cenit per yard; whereas
the defendants were. charged with a profit of one-half of a ceift
per yard..
As to the first of these objections, it is to be observed, first,
that no evidence Was:wpoduced before the master to show that,
during the period of the infringement, there was open to the
public the use of any machine for folding a single edge, which
was adapted to the work done by the -defendants. The only
evidence adduced for that purpose was the letters patent
granted to S. P. Chapin,' Pebruary 19, 1856, and' the ]etters
patent granted to J. S. McCurdy, dated February, 26, 1856.
No evidence was introduced, to show that the folding guides
described in those patents were adapted to the fol'ding of strips
for 'corsets, which was the work, required by the difendants,
and for which they used the complainant's. invention. On the
contrary, it was proved by the positive testimony'of, the complainant (and not 6ontradicted), that the Chapin device couldnot be used for folding strips of materials on one or b'oth edges
for use upon corsets," fo. reasoins fully detailed in the testimony; and that, "the McOurdy device is a binder calculated
and.adapted to fold selvaged edged goods, stich as ribbon and
braid, and will fold the strip passing through it in the center
only," "and cannot be used. for folding raw-edged strips of cloth

THOMSON v. WOOSTER.

'

Opinion of the Court.

either on one or both edges." The complainant also testified
that there was no other way known to him (and he testified
that he had large experience on the subject) to do work
like that done by the defendants, except by hand, or in the use
of another patent owned by him, namely, the Robjohn patent,
dated April 19, 1S64 (which was produced in evidence.), which
consisted of a folding guide, folding one edge in combination
with a device for pressing said,fold to an edge, and then passing
said folded strip through a narrower folder, folding the other
edge, and pressing said fold by a pressing A-ice. No evidence
was adduced by the defendants to contradict this testimony.
It is proper to remark here that the affidavits presented to
the master, and those afterwards presented to the court, as
grounds of the respective applications to reopen the proofs,
cannot be looked into on this hearing. They form no part of
the evidence taken before the master on the reference; and no
error is assigned (even if error could be assigned) to the refusal
of the court to refer the case back to the master for the purpose
of taking further testimony.
The second objection to the report is "that the master, in
estimating the profits chargeable to the defendants, did not
take info account the fact that folded strips, such as those
used by the defendants, were an article of merchandise, cutand folded by different parties at a chafge of only 25 cents
for 144 yards. To this objection it may be observed, that the
evidence before the master did not show by what process such
folded strips were made, nor whether they were not really made
by infringing the complainant's patent. As the proof stood
before the master, they-must have. been made by the use of the
complainant's machine, for there was no other known -machine
by which they could have been made at any such cost. And if
made by the use of complainant's machine, the inference must
be that the persons making them -were infringing thq complainant's patent, for they are not named in the list of those
to whom the complainant had granted licenses, which list was*
presented before the master at the defendant's req]est. If
made by-such infringement they can hardly be set up against
the complainaht to reduce the amount of profits made by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants. There is something singular about this part of the
'case. If folded, strips, suitable for the defendants' purpose,
could have been procured in the market by them at such a low
nrice as is pretended, why did "they not procure them in that
Wvay after being enjoined against using the complainant's
machine, instead of making them by the disadvantageous
method of using a single folder and folding one edge at a
time? Was it from a knowledge of the fact that the persons
who folded such strips were infringing the complainant's patent,
and a consequent unwillingness to become further complicated
in such infringements ? At all events, since the defendants
chose to make their own folded strips in their own factory, in
stead of going outside to purchase them, or have them made
-by others, they cannot justly complain of being accountable
for the profits realized in using the complainant's machine for
that purpose. It
'ight
have been a better financial operation"
to -have bought of others, or employed others to make the,
folded strips which 'they required, just as, in the case of the
Cawood patent, the railroad company would have done better
not to have mended the ends of their battered rails, but to have
had them cut- off; but as they chose to perform the operation
they became responsible to the patentee for the advantage
derived from using his machine. Cawood Patent,94 U. S. 695,
'0 We do not think that the objection is well taken.
It follows that all the reasons of appeal must be overruled.
No error, or ground of appeal, is assigned up n the refusal
of the court below to refer the cause back to the master for
the purpose of re-opening the proofs, although some observations on that point are submitted in the brief of the appellants.
We think that that matter was fairly addressed to the discretion of the court, and cannot properly be made the ground of
objection on this appeal. New evidence, discovered after the
hearing before the master is closed, may, in proper cases, be
ground for a bill of review, on which issue may be joined and
evidence adduced by both parties in the usual way. The defendants are not concluded by the refusal of the court, on
mere affidavits, to refer the cause back to the master. An examination, however, of the affidavits presented to the court,

THOMSON 'v. WOOSTER.
Opinioh of the Cour.

does not convince us that a'farther inquiry should have been
ordered.
Ii thus considering the cage on its merits, as presented by
the evidence taken before the master, his report thereon, and
the exceptions to such report, we- have deemed it unnecessary
to make any remarks as to the status of a defendant before a
master on a reference under a decree pro confesso. Both
parties in this case seem to have taken for granted that the
rights of the defendants were the -same as if the decree had,
been made upon answer and proofs. In ±he English practice,
it is true, as it-existed at the time: of thQ6 adoption of our present Rules (in 1842), the defendant, after a decreero confesso and,
a reference for an account, was' entitled to appear before the
master and to have notice of, and take part in, the proceedings,
provided he obtained an order of, the court for that purpose,
which would be granted on terms. 2 Daniell Ch. Pr. 804, 1st
Ed.; Ditto. 1358, 2d Ed. by Perkins; fleyn v. Heyn, Jacob,
49. The former practice in the Court of Chancery of New
York was substantially the same. 1 Hoffman Oh. Pr. 520;
1 Barb. Ch. Pr. 479. In New Jersey, except in plain cases
of' decree for foreclosure of a mortgage, (where no reference is required), the matter is left to the discretion of the
court. Sometimes notice is ordered to be given to the defen-dant to attend before the master, and sometimes not; as it is
also in the Chancellor's discretion to order a bill to be taken
pro co'nfesso for a default, or to order the complainant totake
proofs to sustain the allegations of the bill. Nixon Dig., Art.
Chancery,. § 21 ;' Qen. Orders in Chancery, XIV., 3-7; Brundage v. Goodfellow, 4 Halst. Ch. 513.
As we have seen, by our 18th Rule in. Equity it is providd,
that if the defendant make default in not filing his plea, demurrer or answer in proper time, the plaintiff may, as one alternative, enter' an order as of course that the bill be taken
pro confesso, " a nd thereupon the cause shall be pro ded in ei
.parte." , The old Rules, adopted in 1822, did not contain this
ex parte clause; they simply declared that if the defendant
failed to appear and file his answer within three months after
appearance day, the plaintiff might take the bill for confessed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

and that the matter thereof should be decreed accordingly ; the
decree to be absolute unless cause should be shown at the next
term. See Equity Rules VI. and X. of 1822, 7 Wheat. vii,
and'Pendleton v. Evans, 4 Wash. C. 0. 335 ; O'Harav. AfaConnell, 93 U. S. 150. Under these rules the English practice
was left to govern the subsequent course of proceeding, by
which, as we have seen, the defendant might have an order to
permit him to appear before the mast6r,-and be entitled to
notice. Whether under the present rule a different practice
was intended to be introduced is a question which it is not
necessary to decide in this case.
The decree of the Circuit Court is a mffied.

HAYES v. HOLLY SPRINGS.
IN ERROR TO THE DISTRICT -COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
18S.-Decided March 30, 1885.
Argued March i7,
The Constitution of Aliississippi, adopted December 1, .869, provided as follows, (Art. 12, sec. 14:) "The Legislature shall not 'authorize any county,
city, or town, to become a stockholder in, or to lend its credit to, any company,. association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters
of such county, city, or town; at a special election, or regular election, to be
held therein, shall assent thereto." A city in that State subscribed for stock
in a railroad corporation, after what was called a "special election" was"
held, but neither the election nor the subscription was authorized by any act
of the Legislature. Afterward, the Legislature passed an act providing
"that all subscriptions to the capital stock of the" corporation, "made by
any county, city, or town in this State which were not made in violation of
the Constitution of this State, are hereby legalized, ratified, and confirmed."
Thereafter the city issued bonds to pay for its subscription. In a suit
against the city, by, a 6ona fide holder of coupons cut from the bonds, to
recover their amount: Held,
(1.) The intention of the Legislature to confirm and ratify the subscription
could not be ascertained with certainty from the language of the act;
(2.) The bonds were void, for want of power to issue them, notwithstanding
any recitals on their face, or any acts in pais, claimed to operate by way of
estoppel.

