STEPHENSON v.. BROOKLYN RAILROAD CO.

149

Syllabus.
that the money in court, being $1,039.42, be "paid to tim by
the clerk," and thereupon it was ordered "that there be paid
to said Hughes (the petitioner) out of said. funds the sum of
$519.04," but the courtL declined to make any disposition of the
rest of the fund until the plaintiff had notice of the application
and could be heard thereon. The amount so ordered to be
paid was afterwards received from the registry of the court by
the petitioner. The application for the rest of the fund was
subsequently heard, the plaintiff in the suit appearing to resist,
and ujpon full consideration it was expressly adjudged by the
court that the litigation in the case was not ended, and that
"neither by the terms of the decree nor the right and justice
of the case was he [petitioner] entitled to the same [the money]
until he had earned it by prosecuting said suit to a final decree
as to all the defendants therein." The application for the remainder of the money ws consequently denied, and the fund
was left "in the registry of the court to be disposed of or applied hereafter as the rights of the parties and justice of the
case may require." Certainly upon this return the petitioner
is not entitled to the writ he asks.
The rule heretofore granted w dischargedwith cost.

STEPHENSON v. BROOKLYN CROSS-TOWN RAILROAD COMPANY..
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

9TATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March 11, i88.-necidedMarch 238,885.
None of the separate elements of the devices described in the patent.granted,
September 16, 1873, to John A. O'Haire and .W A. Jones, as assignees of
John A. O'Haire for an improvement in operating car door. were new- nor
was the combination new nor was there any patentable invention in the
contrivance described in the patent.
The device described in the patent granted March 30, 1875, to appellant for an

OCTOBER TERMU,

1884.

Statement of Facts.
improvement in signalling devices for street cars required no ingenuity, and
cannot be called an invention.
The combination described and claimed in the patent granted September 7,
1875, to appellant for an improvement in street cars is a mere aggregation
of separate devices, each performing the function for which it is adapted
when used separately, and the whole contributing no new result as the
product of the joint use ; and it is not a patentable invention.

John Stephenson, the appellant, was the plaintiff in the Circuit Court. He brought his bill to restrain the infringement
by the Brooklyn Cross-Town Railroad Company, the appellee,
of three letters patent. The first was a patent dated September 16, 1873, granted to John A. O'Iiaire and W. A. Jones, as
assignees of John A. O'Haire, the inventor, 'for "an improvement in operating car doors." The- second, dated March 30,
1875, was granted to the appellant "for an improvement in
signalling devices for street-cars." The third, dated September 7,1875, was also granted to the appellant for an "improvement in street-cars," consisting in placing a mirror in the hood
of an ordinary street-car to enable the driver to see what was
occurring in and behind the car.
The bill charged an infringement of each of these patents
by the appellee in all of its cars.
The answer of the appellee denied infringement of any of
the patents sued on; averred that all had been anticipated by
specified American and foreign" patents and by vertain persons
in this country, naming them; that none of the devices were
patentable; and that the devices described in ,!.- second and
third patents were in public use and on sale for more than two
years prior to the application foi, lecters-patent therefor respectively.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill (14:
Fed. Rep. 457), and the plaintiff appealed.
.X'. Benjamin F. Thurston and -r. William Allen Btler
(ilk. Philip J. O'Reilly was with them) for appellant.
A.k. Francis Rawle (2r.Walter George Smith was with
him) for appellee.

STEPHENSON v. BROOKLYN RAILROAD CO.

151

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTicE WooDs, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
We shall consider each of the patents in the order above
stated.
The invention described in the O'fiaire patent consists of a
combination and arrangement of devices by which the rear
door of a street-car can be opened and closed by the driver
from the front platform where he stands, in order to let passengers into or out of the car.
The drawing by which the specification is illustrated shows
the frame of-an ordinary street-car provided with a door which
is supported upon and moves back and forth upon suitable
pulleys and ways, which, it is said, may be arranged in any
desired manner. Passing through the bar from which the
hand-straps are suspended, and which is made hollow, is a rod
or rock-shaft which has a lever or crank upon its front end
within easy reach of the driver. Upon its rear end is a similar
lever or crank carrying a roller, which works up and down in
a rectangular guiding-frame secured to the rear edge of the
door and by which the door is opened and closed. The driver,
by a slight push upon the front lever, can open the door, or, by
a pull toward him, can close it without moving off his seat.
The claim is as follows: "The rod i, crank or lever 3, and
guiding-frame 6, secured to the door and combined with an
operating lever for the driver, substantially as shown and described."
The infringement charged against the defendant was the use
of cars containing an "improvement in operating -car doors,"
described in the patent of George AT.. Brill, dated December, 1,
1874. The device covered by 'this patent was substantially the
same as that described in the O'Haire patent, except that the
rock-shaft ran along the bottom of the car instead of through
the bar from which the .hand-straps were suspended.
There. is no evidence to show that O'Haire's invention antedates the application for his patent, which was made on June
27, 1873. Considering the state of the art at that time, we are
of opinion that the device covered by his patent does not embody anything new which the defendant infringes. The open-

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.

ing and closing of the rear door of a street-car from the front
platform is not new. The specification of the O'Haire patent
says: "I am aware that it is not new to operate the door from
the front platform of the car, as this has heretofore been accomplished by means of an endless cord which passes through
the rods to which the holding-straps are secured, and I therefore disclaim such invention."
At the date of O'Haire's application it was well known, as
is shown by the evidence, that doors and window-shutters
guided by slides, both in vehicles and apartments, were opened
and closed by mechanism used by persons placed-in such situations that they could neither reach nor open and close the
doors or shutters directly. The device of O'Haire must, therefore, to be the subject of a valid patent, embody some new
means for accomplishing this end.
.The elements of which his contrivance was made up were
the rod or rock-shaft, reaching from the front to the rear of
the car, the lever by which a rocking motion was given to the
shaft, and the means used for communicating motion from the
shaft to the door.
The testimony is conclusive to show that there is nothing
new. in the rock-shaft or in the lever by which it is moved.
Long before the date of O'IHair 's application, the evidence is
clear that rock-shafts operated by a lever or crank were used
to open and close the doors of furnaces, and the window and
door openings of sugar-refineries, by persons standing at a distance from the windows and doors to be opened and closed.
A rock-shaft moved by a lever at the end of a railway carriage
for the purpose of opening and closing the sliding-doors of the
carriage was described in the English letters-patent set out in
the record of John Johnson, dated March 3, 1857. The use of
a rock-shaft for a similar purpose, namely, the opening and
closing of, sliding window-blinds, is also shown"in the patent of
Daniel Kidder, dated June 8, 1869. Rock-shafts for the same
purpose, are shown in the patent of Darwin D. Douglass, dated
June 11, 1861, and the .patent of W. H. Brown, dated February
23, 1864. The shaft in the Brown patent Was moved'by a
:lever, and in the Kidder and Douglass patents by a knob attached

STEPHENSON v. BROOKLYN RAILROAD CO. 153
Opinion of the Court.

to its end, which is the well-known equivalent of a lever. It
appears, therefore, that the use of a rock-shaft actuated by a
lever, for communicating motion was an old device which had
been in use long before the date of the O'llaire patent.
It remains to consider the mode adopted by O'HIaire for communicating motion from his rock-shaft to the door of the car.
We find it to be one of a number-of old and well-known devices
for changing rotary into horizontal or rectilinear motion. The
testimony shows that the devices long used for this purpose are
a pini6n or segment of a pinion whose teeth interlock with the
teeth of a straight bar or rack or a: rigid lever attached at one
end to the rock-shaft, and having on the other a pin or roller
working in a slot formed on the door or shutter to be moved.
Sometimes the slot is in the lever, and the pin or roller is on
the door or shutter. These devices perform the same functions
in substantially the same manner, hnd have long been recognized as mechanical equivalents.
The device covered by the patent of O'Haire, therefore, consists of a rock-shaft with a lever attached for the purpose of
giving the shaft a rocking motion, combined with a wellknown and long-used device by which the rocking motion was
changed into a rectilinear motion and communicated to the
door of a car. No one of these devices can be claimed as new.
If there -is any ingenuity displayed in the contrivance described in the O'flaire patent, it must, therefore, be in the combination of these devices to attain a result. The claim of the
patent is for such a combination. But in our opinion this combination was anticipated by the patents of both Douglass and
Brown before mentioned.
The inventions described in these patents are for the opening and closing of outside shutters from the inside of a house,
without opening the windows, and they consist of a rock-shaft
passing through the wall of the house, to vhich a rocking motion is imparted from the inside of the house in the one case
by a knob, and in the other by a lever or handle on the inner
end of the shaft. By means of a pinion on the outer end of
the rock-shaft applied to a toothed-rack on the shutter, a rectilinear sliding motion is imparted to the shutter, which is thus

OCTOBER TERI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

opened and closed. The rock-shafts in these patents are iden.
tical with the rod or shaft in the O'Haire patent; the lever in
the Brown patent, by which the rock-shaft is moved, is the
same as the lever in the O'Haire patent, and the knob in the
Douglass shaft is its well-known equivalent; and the contrivance by pinion and rack for transmitting motion from the
rock-shaft to the shutter is the well-known and long-used equivalent of the devices used for a similar purpose in the O'Haire
contrivance. We find, therefore, that none of the separate
elements of the devices described in the O'Haire patent are
new, nor is the combination new. So far, therefore, we find
no patentable invention in the contrivance described in the
patent under consideration. It was said by this court in Sm'ith
v. Nichols, 21 Wall. 112, that"a mere carrying forward a new
or more extended application of the original thought, a change
only in form, proportions or degree, the substitution of equivalents doing substantially the same thing in the same way by
substantially the same means, with better results, is not such
inventionas will sustain a patent." So inPennsylvaniaRailroad
v. Locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, -r. Justice Gray, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The application of an
old process or machine to a similar or analogous subject, with
no change in the manner of application and no result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent, even if
the new form of result has not before been contemplated."
These authorities are pertinent. See also Tinton v. Hamilton,
104 U. S. 485; Blake v. San Francisco, 113 U. S. 679.
If, therefore, there is any patentable novelty in the O'Haire
contrivance, it is in the placing of the rock-shaft inside the bar
to which the hand-straps are attached. But the plaintiff's
counsel, in order to bring the device used by the defendant
within the monopoly of the O'Haire patent, insist that this is
no part of the patented contrivance, and the testimony shows
that the defendant does not use it.
We are of opinion, therefore, that, construing the patent of
O'Haire, in view of the state of the art at the date of its issue, as
we are compelled to do, in order to leave any ground whatever
on which it can be sustained, the defendant does not infringe.

STEPHENSON v. BROOKLYN RAILROAD CO.

155

Opinion of the Court.
We have next to consider the patent granted to the plaintiff, dated March 30, 1875, "for an improvement in signaling
devices for street-cars."
The specification thus states the object of the contrivance
described in the patent:
"The prevalence of street-cars managed by the driver, without the aid of a conductor, makes it necessary that every possible facility should be provided for him as well as the passengers.
"The ordinary street-car has a signal-bell located at each end,
with a bell-strap attached thereto, which iuns centrally along
the ridge or highest part of the ceiling. This strap, as thus
located, is inaccessible to many passengers.
"My improvement is intended to remedy this trouble, and
consists in a new combination and arrangement with a streetcar of bells or gongs and of the cords or straps which operate
them, whereby passengers can, without.rising from their seats,
signal to the driver. This is of primary importance to invalids,
ladies, and children, and that more especially when the car is
crowded."
The device covered by the patent consists of the placing of
two bells attached to the rafters of the bonnet or hood of the
driver's platform, one at each corner of the front end of the
car. To the hammer of each bell is attached one end of a bellcord, the other end of which is attached to the inner side of
'the rear wall of the car, the cords being led along the lower
margin of the ceiling one on each side the car, froia which
bell-pulls or hand-straps are suspended at intervals within easy
reach of the seated passengers, so that they, without rising
from their seats, can ring the bell.
The claim was as follows: "In a street-car, two bell-cords,
each provided with a system of pull-strap s, and arranged in
such manner as to pass along the lower margin of the roof on
the opposite sides of the car and connect directly with a signalbell or gong attached to the outside of the driver's end of the
car, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
We are of opinion tlat there is no patentable invention described in this patent. Bell-straps or cords running from one

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

end of an omnibus or street-car to the other, under the middle
of the ceiling, were well known and, in common use years
before the application of Stephenpon for his patent. The fact
that they were so placed and used is. mentioned in the specification. The evidence also establishes the fact, that before the
year 1870 it was a common practice to attach pendent bellpulls or hand-straps to this 'central cord so as to bring it within
easier reach of the passsenges. The evidence shows that many
of the cars in which such hand-straps or bell-pulls were used
were built and sold in New Y'ork. The use of such pendent
hand-straps long before the applicati6n,of 'Stephenson for the
patent now under consideration is'conclusively proven.
It is also shown by the evidence that as early as the year
1861 a bell-cord or strap i'unning along the sides of the cars
above the heads of the passengers was publicly used on streetcars in Boston and Philadelphia, and the same arrangement of
the cord or strap was shown in' the patent of Charles Carr, issued July 5, 1870. When, therefore, the patent of Stephenson
for his improvement in signaling-devices for street-cars was
applied for in March, 1875,.the only advance in the art which
his specification showed wias the applying to the cords running
along the sides of the cars of the bell-pulls or hand-straps
which had before then been attached t6 the cord running over
the middle of the aisle. -This, in-our, judgment, did not require
the least degree of ingenuity, and - cannot be called invention.
I-otclciss v. Greenwood, 11- Jow. 24.8; Stivpson v. Foodnan,
10 Wall. 117; Atlantic Works.v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192; Slawson v. Grand Street Railroad. co. 107 U. S. 649; XYing v.
Gallun, 109 U. S. 99; Phillps"v. Detroit, 111 U. S. 604. The
patent, therefore, by which the plaintiff seeks to embrace in his
monopoly such an arrangement of -the signal-cords and handstraps of a street-car is void
The third patent, which the piaintiff avers is infringed by
the defendant, is for the irhpro-nemeht in street-cars granted to
John Stephenson, the appellant, September 7, 1875, on an application dated August 7, 1874. It is thus described in the
specification:
"In running street-cars it has been found to be a serious

STEPHENSON v. BROOKLYN RAILROAD CO.

157

Opinion of the Court.
soutce of trouble to have the driver continually turning'round
to ascertain when it is necessary to stop to permit passengers
to enter or leave the car, as such constantly takes away his attention from* his horses, and that frequently when it is most
required. To obviate this trouble is the'object of my present
improvement.
"My invention, for this purpose, consists in combining a
mirror with the front h6od of the car, it being so arranged in
connection therewith, and with an opening in the front end of
the car, as to give to the driver a clear view of the inside of the
car and through the entrance-door.of the latter, and that without the necessity of his having to turn around for such purpose,
thereby enabling him, without withdiawing his attention from
the horses, to see when it is necessary to stop, either to receive
a passenger or to allow one to get out.
"This mirror is set at a small angle to a horizontal plane, so
that its upper edge will project 'rearwardly beyond 'its lower
edge, it being placed at such angle as will enable it, through
the opening F in the front end of the car, to give the best view
of the interior of the car and through the glass windows of the
entrance-door A."
The claim was as follows: "The combination of a bonnet
E provided with a mirror b, with an opening, or an opening
covered by a transparent medium F, in the front end of a streetcar, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
A combinafion is patentable only when the several elements
of which it is composed produce by their joint action a new
and, useful result, or an old result, in a cheaper or otherwise
more advantageous way.
The elements of which the combination described in this
patent is composed were all old and well known. They were A
mirror, the hood' of a street-car over the dfiver's platform, and,
a glass panel. in the front- end of the car over the door. Wo
are of opinion that the alleged combination of these three elements, as described in this patent, is not patentable. There
is, in fact, no combination, but a mere aggregation of. separate
devices, each of which performs the.function for which, when
used separately, it was adapted, and does not contribute to any

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

new rYsult, the product of their joint use.

The result attained

is merely the reflection of an object in a mirror. The hood and
the glass panel in the end of the car do not change in any degree the function of the mirror. It is used as a mirror only.
The function of the hood is not changed by the mirror or glass
panel, or both. It is a hood only on which, as in the wall of a
room, the mirror is hung. The use of a glass, instead of a
wooden panel, in the front end of the car, simply removes an
opaque obstacle between the mirror and the object to be reflected by it. iNeither one of the three elements of the alleged
combination performs any new office or imparts any new power
to the others, and, combined, they do not produce any new result or any old result more cheaply or otherwise more advantageously. There is, therefore, no patentable combination.
This conclusion is illustrated and confirmed by the following
cases: I1ailes v. Van T-ormer, 20 Wall. 353; iieckendawfer v.
Faber, 99 U. S. 347; Pickering v. AfcCullough, 104 U. S. 310.
It results from the views we have expressed that the decree
of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was right. It is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

CHAPMAN v. BREWER, Assignee.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNhITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted March 19, 1885.-Decided March 30. 1885.

Where, under the Bankruptcy Act of March 2, 1867, a proceeding in involuntary bankruptcy was commenced in the District Court of the United States
for the Western District of Michigan, before an attachment on land of the
debtor, issued by a State Court of Michigan, was levied on the land. the assignment in bankruptcy, though made after the attachment, related back
and vested title to the laud in the assignee as of the commencement of the
proceeding ; and, where the attachment was levied within four months
before the commencement of the proceeding, it was dissolved by the
making of the assignment.
The proceeding in this case was held to have been commenced before the
attachment was levied.

