EX PARiTE HUGHES.
Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE HUGHES.
ORIGIIAL.
Argued March 31, 1885.-Decidec

April 6, I885.

On a petition for a writ of mandamus to a circuit 3udge directing him to pay
over to the petitioner a sum of money alleged to-have been paid into court
for the petitiouer, and to be absolutely and unconditionally his property,
and also alleged to be held in court because the judge refused to sign an
order for its payment to petitioner, a ruleto show-cause was issued; and a
return thereto being made, showing that it had not been adjudged that the
money belonged tc petitioner but that the litigation was still peliding; Hde-d.
That the petitioner was not entitled to the writ.

Application for a writ of mandamus. The facts which make
the case are stated m the opinion of the court.
.r&John. H. .fitckell for petitioner.
XM , N

o04ph opposing.

MR.CmEF JUSTiCE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application for a -writ of mandamus requiring
Matthew P Deady, judge of the District Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon, to "forthwith sign and execute, by signing or countersigning any and all such orders,
matters and things as may be requisite or necessary to enable
your petitioner (Ellis G. Hughes, an attorney-at-law practising
in the Circuit and District Courts of the United Statesfor such
-district) to withdraw from -the depositary of said court the
sum of five hundred dollars belonging to him." The petition
for the writ, which is sworn to by the petitioner, states that on
and prior to 'May 3, 1882, there was pending in the Circuit
Court of the United States far the-District of Oregon a suit in
equity for the foreclosure of a mortgage in which William
Reid, manager, was plaintiff, and H. McCallister and W B.
McCallister, defendants, and that the plamntiff therein "recovered in said suit a certain decree as against the defendantsand a certain order of sale, wherein and whereby it

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

was ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the defendants
should pay to the-plaintiff a certain sum of money, and interest
as therein specified, and also the costs and disbursements in the
suit to be taxed, 'including ten per cent. on the full amount
due from the defendants

to the complainant, as an

attorney's fee to the attorney of the complainant,' and that in
default of such payment being made certain lands in said decree
and order of sale set out and described be sold."
The petition further states, "that your petitioner, as tne
attorney of the plaintiff, by express agreement and by the express terms and conditions of said decree and order of sale, was
the absolute and unconditional owner of the attorney's fee recovered therein and thereby as costs of the suit." It is then
stated that a sale of the mortgaged property was made under
the decree, and "the amount due your petitioner under said
decree and order of sale, as and for his attorney's fee, . .
having been regularly ascertained and determined, the said
purchaser at said sale paid to the clerk of the Circuit Court
as and for and in payment of the claim of your petitioner for his attorney's fee,

.

.

.

the full amount so as

aforesaid ascertained and determined to ba due to your
petitioner therefor." The petition then states that, upon the
collection of the money, it was deposited in the registry of the
court, and that, although demanded, tho cistrict judge holding
the Circuit Court had refused to sign an order for its payment
in full to him, but that the sum of $500, part thereof, was retained, although it was then in the depositary of the court
and "absolutely and unconditionally the property of your
petitioner."
No copies of the various orders and decrees on which the
rights of the petitioner depend were attached to:the petition; but
upon the positive sworn statements of the petitioner as to their
nature and effect, a rule was entered on the district judge to
show cause why the writ asked for should not be issued. To
this rule a return has been made from which it^ appears unmistakably that it has never been adjudged that the petitioner was
the owner of the money in court. On the contrary, it does
appear that, on the 4th of December, 1894, the petitioner asked

STEPHENSON v.. BROOKLYN RAILROAD CO.

149

Syllabus.
that the money in court, being $1,039.42, be "paid to tim by
the clerk," and thereupon it was ordered "that there be paid
to said Hughes (the petitioner) out of said. funds the sum of
$519.04," but the courtL declined to make any disposition of the
rest of the fund until the plaintiff had notice of the application
and could be heard thereon. The amount so ordered to be
paid was afterwards received from the registry of the court by
the petitioner. The application for the rest of the fund was
subsequently heard, the plaintiff in the suit appearing to resist,
and ujpon full consideration it was expressly adjudged by the
court that the litigation in the case was not ended, and that
"neither by the terms of the decree nor the right and justice
of the case was he [petitioner] entitled to the same [the money]
until he had earned it by prosecuting said suit to a final decree
as to all the defendants therein." The application for the remainder of the money ws consequently denied, and the fund
was left "in the registry of the court to be disposed of or applied hereafter as the rights of the parties and justice of the
case may require." Certainly upon this return the petitioner
is not entitled to the writ he asks.
The rule heretofore granted w dischargedwith cost.

STEPHENSON v. BROOKLYN CROSS-TOWN RAILROAD COMPANY..
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

9TATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March 11, i88.-necidedMarch 238,885.
None of the separate elements of the devices described in the patent.granted,
September 16, 1873, to John A. O'Haire and .W A. Jones, as assignees of
John A. O'Haire for an improvement in operating car door. were new- nor
was the combination new nor was there any patentable invention in the
contrivance described in the patent.
The device described in the patent granted March 30, 1875, to appellant for an

