MOWER v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Ing by way of estoppel, may cure irregularities i the execution
of a statutory power, but they cannot create it. If, as in the
present case, legislative authority was wanting, the bond has
no validity
The generalb act of April 19, 18712, is referred to in- the
declaration. But it does not avail in this case, for, although
the bonds were issued after its passage, the subscription took
place before, and the act applies only to future elections and
subscriptions and" authorizes only bonds bearing interest at
seven per cent. per annum.
Judgmmet caffined.

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
SAME v.. SAME & Another.
3N ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE .STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 23, 1885.-Decided March 30,'1885.

" judgment of the Supreme Court of a State remanding a case to a State colart
with orders to enter a specifed judgment is a final judgment for the purposes of a writ of error to this Court.
A judgment of a superior court remanding a case to an inferior court for
eritry of judgment, and leaving no judicial discretion to the latter, as to
further proceedings, -isfinal.

These were motions to 'dismiss two causes brought here in
error from the Supreme Court of California. The grounds for
the motions are stated in the opimon of the court.
-fr' X. D B 'a and and Mr J7ames K. Redington -for the
motions.
.X& Willim T Jo nston, opposing.

MR. CmnF JUSTICE WA= -deliveredthe opinion of the court.
These motions are made on the ground that the judgments

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

for the review of which the writs of error were sued out are not
final judgments. The judgment in each case is that the judgment of the State. District Court "be, and the same is hereby,
rev:ersed with costs, with directions to the Superior Court of
Los Angeles County to enter judgment upon the findings for
',the plaintiff as prayed for in his complaint."
That judgment is final for the purposes of a writ of error to
this court, which terminates the litigation between the parties on
the merits of the case, so that, if there should be an affirmance
here, the court below would have nothing to do but to execute the judgment it had already rendered. Bostwick v.
Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3, and the numerous cases there cited.
The judgments in these cases are of that character. The
litigation is ended, hnd the rights of the .parties on the merits
have been fully determined. Nothing remains to be done but
to require the inferior court to perform the ministerial act of
entering the judgments in that court which have been ordered.
This is but carrying the judgment of the Supreme Court which
has been rendered into execution. Nothing is left to the
judicial discretion of the court below. The cases relied on In
support of the motions to dismiss were all judgments or decrees.
of reversal, with leave for. further proceedings in the inferior
court. Such judgments are not final, because something yet
remains to be done to complete the litigation.
The motion in each of the cases is over?.uled.

BUTTERWORTH, Commissioner, v. HILL & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - FOR THE
DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
Argued March 9, 1885.-Decided March 30, 1885.

The provision in q 739 that no suit shall be brought in a Circuit or District
Court of the United States against an inhabitant of the United'States, by
original process, in any other district than that of which he is an inhabit-

