VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Pleasants o. Greenliow.

Cbnstitution and laws of the United States, where the sum or
value in dispute exceeds $500. Congress has provided no other
remedy for the enforcement of this right.
It miight be difficult to enumerate the several descriptions of
rights secured t6 individuals by the Constitution, the deprivation of which, by any person, would-subject the latter to an
action for redress under-ยง 1979 Rev. Stat., and, 'fortunately, it
is not necessary to do so in this case. It is sufficient to say
that the declaration now-before us does not show a cause of
action within its terms.
The Judgment of the Circuit Court w accordingly affirmed
MR. JUSTICE BRALEY, with whom were the CHIEF JUSTICE,
Mm. JUSTICE MILER and M .JUSTICE GRAY, concurred in the

]udgment, but rested their concurrence upon the grounds stated
in their opinion _post, page 330, after the opimon of the court
i MARY V. PARsoNs.

PLEASANTS v. GREENHOW, Treasurer.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR,
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF 'VIRGINIA.

This case falls withi'the decision in Carter v. Greenhow, ante, page 817.

_Yr HIliam, H Royall, MWr Dantl -f. Camberknn [X1r
William B. Hornblower was with him on the brief ], _Yr
Wager Suayne and YrI Wiltam X. Evarts for ajpellant.
MrMF S. Blair,Attorney-General of the State of Virginia,
for appellee.
=C MA-rnws-delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the.,s.ppellant, a citizen of
Virginia, praying that the defendant, Green.how, T1easurer of

MR. JuS

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion in Pleasants v. Greenhow

the City of Richmond' may be perpetually enjoined from
taking steps, by distraint of the complainant's property, to collect certain taxes claimed by the defendant to be due to the
State of Virginia, amounting to $36.25, but for which the bill
avers the complainant tendered in payment the exact amount
thereof, for a part, coupons cut from bonds issued by the State
under the act of March 30, 1871, and part in money.
On demurrer to the bill, it was dismissed by the Circuit
Court for want of jurisdiction, the amount in controversy
being less than $500, and the complainant has brought this
appeal.
it is sought to maintain the jurisdiction in this case on the
ground that the suit is authorized by Rev. Stat. ยง 1979, jurisdiction to entertain which is conferred by the sixteenth clause
of Rev. Stat. ยง 629.
The case comes within the decision just rendered.in Carter
v. Greenhow, and is governed by it. It is not, in our opinion,
such a suit as is contemplated by the sections of the Revised
Statutes referred to.
As the sum or value in *controversy does not exceed $500,
the suit cannot be maintained as a case arising under the Con'stitution and laws of the United States, provided for in the act
of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, 18 Stat. 470. The bill was, therefore, rightly dismissed.
T]he decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly afirmed.
MR. JuSTIcE BRADLEY, with whom were the C'HrEF JUsTIcE,.
and MR. JUST'cE GRAY, concurred in. the
judgment, but rested their concurrence upon the grou-nds
stated in their opinion, post, page 330, after the opinion of the
court in MARYE v. PAxsoxs.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER,

