PUTNAM v. INGRAHAM.
Statement of Facts.

can still sue to recover from all, though he may be able to succeed only as to a part.
The order remanding the case is
.Affrmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BLATOHFORD took no part in the decision of this

case.

PUTNAM & Another v. INGRAHAM.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Submitted March 2, 1885.-Decided March 23, 1885.

Louisvfille & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Ide, ante, 52, affirmed.

This was a writ of error for the review of an order Of the
Circuit Court remanding a suit to a State court. The silit was
brought in the Superior Court of the County of Hartford, Connecticut, by George E. Ingraham, the defendant in error, a
citizen of Connecticut, against N. D. Putnam and Henry Earle,
citizens of New York, and W. G. Morgan, a citizen of Connecticut, as partners in business under the name of Putnam, Earle
& Co., to recover a balance claimed to be due from the-partnership on an account for money lent, paid out and expended,
and upon a note of $5,000 made by W. G. Morgan to the
order of Putnam, Earle & Co., and by the firm indorsed to
Ingraham. The complaint contained simply the common
counts, but a bill of particulars subsequently filed disclosed the
true nature of the claim to be the note, and an account for the
purchase and sale of stocks beginning August 17, 1883, afrOd
ending February 29, 1884.
The defenidants, Putnam and Earle, filed a separate answer,
which contained-i. A general denial of all the allegations in
the complaint; 2. An averment as to the account, that !he
alleged loans were all made to the defendant Morgan Tor his
individual and private use, and not to the firm; 3. An aver-ment as to the note, that it was given for money loaned to W.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

G. Morgan alone for his individual use, and not to the firm,
and that it was indorsed by Morgan in the name of the firm
by collusion between him and Ingraham, and with intent to
defraud Putnam and Earle; and, 4. A statement that the
partnership of Putnam, Earle & Co. was not formed until January 2, 1884, and that all -the transactions in the bill of particulars before that date took place, if at all, between the plaintiff
and William G. Morgan, who, during the years 1882 and 1883,
was only the agent of Putnam and Earle, and not a partner.
with them, and that as to none of the items in the bill, dated
in the year 1883, were they under any joint liability with -Morgan as partners.
Morgan never answered the complaint, and as to him the
case stood on default. After filing their answer the defendants, Putnam and Earle, presented a petition to the Superior
Court for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Connecticut. The material
part of this petition, aside from a statement of the citizenship
of the parties, was as follows:
"And your petitioners further say, that in the suit above
mentioned there is a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be fully determined
between them, to wit, a controversy between the present petitioners, N. D. Putnam and Henry Earle, and the said George
E. Ingraham and William G. Morgan, as by the pleadings in
said cause will more fully appear."
Upon the presentation of this petition the Superior Court
declined to enter an order for the removal of the cause. Thereupon the petitioners entered a copy of the record in the Circuit
Court of the United States. This being done, the plaintiff
Ingraham moved that court to remand the suit, and the motion was granted. To reverse an order to that effect this writ
of error was brought.
.3Th. L~ews E. Stanton, .X.. Herbert E. -Dickson,and .Afr.
Edward W. Bell for plaintiffs in error.
.AXr. Charles E. Perkins for defendant in error.

PUTNAM v. INGRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.
Miz. CnmF JusTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above recited, he continued :
We are unable to distinguish this case materially from that
of The Louisville & Yashvill Railroad Co. v. Ide, just decided. The suit is brought against all the defendants jointly
to recover 'upon what are alleged to be their joint promises
and undertakings. The defendants, who are not citizens of
Connecticut., have filed a separate answer in which they deny
their liability altogether, and claim besides that, if liable at all
on part of the account sued for, it is not jointly with the defendat M organ. This is their separate defence to the joint
suit which Ingraham has elected to bring against them and
Morgan upon what he claims to be the joint contracts of all
the defendants.
In Connecticut, as in New York, "judgment may be given
for or against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or
against one or more of several defendants," and in addition to
this the court may, in Connecticut, "determine the ultimate
yights of, the parties on each side as between themselves and
grant to the defendant any affirmative relief he may be entitled
to." But this, as we have said in the case just decided, does
not make a joint contract several, nor divide. a joint suit into
separate parts. The suit is still one and indivisible for the
purposes of removal.
The fact that Morgan has not answered but is in default is
unimportant. The suit is still on joint causes of action, and the
plaintiff, if he sustains the allegations of his complaint at the
trial, will be entitled to a joint judgment against all the defendants. The default places the parties ii no different position
with reference to a removal than they would occupy if Morgan
had answered and set up an entirely different defence from that
of the other defendants. A separate controversy is not introduced into the case by separate defences to the same cause of
action.
As the petitioning defendants have asked no affirmative relief
either against the plaintiff or their co-defendant, no question
can arise under the rule of practice in Connecticit which allows
the court to determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
-

OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

side as between themselves. In the present case the only controversy is as to the right of the plaintiff to recover against the
defendants.
The order to remand is
.Afb:med.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY
& Others v. WILSON.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted March 2, 1885.-Decided March 23, 18S5.

In a suit to compel a corporation to transfer to the plaintiff stock standing on
its books in the name of a third person, the corporation and the third person are both necessary parties.
Separate issues, under separate defences, to an action pending in a State court,
do not necessarily make separable controversies, which may be removed to
the CircuiV Court of the United States.

This was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of the
TTnited States refhanding a suit to the Circuit Court of the City
of St. Louis, Missouri,, from which it had been removed upon a
petition filed under the act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, 18 Stat.
470., The suit was in equity and brought by William C. Wilson, the appellee, a citizen of Missouri, against the St. Louis
and San Francisco Railway Company, a Missouri corporation,
and Jesse Seligman, and James Seligman, citizens of New
York, to compel the company to transfer to Wilson on its books
certain shares of its capital stock standing in the name of
the Seligmans, and to issue to him certificates therefor. The
petition stated that Wilson purchased the stock at a sale under
an execution issued upon a judgment in his favor and against
the Seligmans, and that on the 19th of December, 1883, he
exhibited to the company his certificate of purchase, and demanded that the company cause his name "to oe entered on
the stock books of said corporation as the owner of said shares

