PACIFIC BANK v. MIXTER.
Counsel for Parties.

Columbia, expresses the same idea and the same purpose that
section three of the act authorizing the Baltimore and Potomac company to enter the District does, namely, to retain in
the hands of Congress the absolute control of the use of the
streets of the city by any railroad company whatever.
We are of opinion that, when this company wishes to depart in any direction from the line of its present track as prescribed for it by acts of Congress, it must obtain permission to
do so from that body. And that Congress, and not the court
nor the company, is the judge of the expediency or the necessity of such change, and of the manner in which the public
good requires it to be made and the safeguards, which should
accompany it.
The dec'ree of the Supreme Court qf the -s1)trict of Columbia
is reversed, and'the case P'emanded,with directions to dismiss the bill.

PACIFIC BANK v.

IXTER.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FORT
DISTRICT OF ArASSAcHUSETTS.
Submitted April 13, 1385.-Decided April 20,1885.

ยง 1001 Rev. Stat. exempts insolvent national banks or the receivers thereof,
bringing causes to this court by Writ of error or on appeal by direction of
the Comptroller of the Currency, from the obligation to give security.
It is no cause for dismissal of a writ of error brought by a receiver of a national bank that in one of the papers by clerical error he is given a wrong
name.

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error for reasons
stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. Joshua D. Ball for the motion.
.Mr. A. A. Ranney opposing.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884
Statement of Facts.

delivered the opinion of the court.
Under ยง 1001 of the Revised Statutes no bond for the
prosecution of the suit, or to answer in damages or costs, is
required on writs of error or appeals issuing from or brought
to this court by direction of the Comptroller of the Currency
in suits by or against insolvent national banks, or the receivers
thereof. This is such a case.
There is abundant evidence in the record that the direction
from the comptroller to the receiver was to take out a writ of
error in this case, although, by mistake in one of the papers,
Henry ]Mixter was named as the plaintiff instead of George
iMixter.
.2Xotion denied.
MvR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

CAVENDER v. CAVENDER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued April 6,185.-Decided April 20, 1885.

An answer in Chancery, setting forth material facts which should have been
stated in the bill, but were omitted, is a waiver of the right to object to
the bill for cause of the omission.
Where the acts or omissions of a trustee show a want of reasonable fidelity to
his trust, a court of equity will remove him.
A neglect by a trustee to invest moneys in his hands is a breach of trust, and
is a ground for removal by a court of equity.

Rbbert S. Cavender, the appellee, was the plaintiff in the
Circuit Court. He stated his case in the bill of complaint substantially as follows:
John Cavender, deceased, by his last will and testament,
dated May 6, 1858, and proved in the Probate Court of the
City-then County-of St. Louis and State of Missouri, February 4, 1862, made and constituted the defendant, John S.
Cavender; executor of his estate, and, after payment of debts,
as therein mentioned, bequeathed one-half of the remainder of

