174

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE MORGAN & Another.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 33, 31, 1885.-Decided April 6, 1885.
A writ of mandamus may be used to require an inferior court to decide a matter within its jurisdiction, and pending before it for judicial determination,
but not to control the decision.
'The plaintiff -in the suit below, believing that the judgment as recorded did
not conform to the finding, moved the court to amend it in that particular.
The courtjheard and denied the motion: Held, That this was a judicial act
which could not be reviewed by mandamus.

This was an application for a writ of mandamus. the facts
which make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
2fr. Edward Roby.for petitioner.
21r. William H. Cdlkins, (frA. A. Z. Osborn and .Mr. A. .
Rariswere with him), opposing.
delivered the opiiiionf-fh0our
This is an application for a writ of mandamus requiring the
Circuit Court-of the United States for the District of Indiana
to amend a judgment entered January 20,.1883, in a cause
wherein the relators were plaintiffs and Frederick Eggers, defendant, "so as to conform to the complaint in said cause, and
to the finding or verdict of the court' rendered upon the trial
of said cause."
The suit was ejectment to recover the possession of ." all of
the north part of lot 2, in sec. 36, T. 38, N. R. 10 W. of the
second principal meridian-, -whichlies west of the track of the
Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad, and north of a
line parallel with the north line of said lot 2, and seven hundred and fifty-three feet south therefrom."
The judgment entry, which includes the only finding in the
cage, is'as follows:
"And the court, having heard the evidence and being fully
MRt. CHIEF JusTicE WAiTE

EX PARTE MORGAN.
Opinion of the Couft.

advised, finds for the plaintiffs, and orders and adjudges that
they are entitled to, and shall have and recover of defendant,
the possession of so much of said lot two (2) as lies south of
the south -line of lot number one (1), as indicated by a fence
constructed and maintained by the defendant as and on said
south line, said fence running from the State line easterly to
Lake Michigan, and assessing the .damages at $1 and costs
taxed at $-,

which the plaintiffs shall recover of defendant.

All of which is finally ordered, adjudged, and decreed."
After this entry the petitidner moved the court to amend
and reform the judgment so that it would "conform to the
complaint in said court and to the finding or verdict ;" but.
the court, on full consideration, decided that the finding and
judgment were not separate and distinct, and that the meaning was clear.' The entry was to be construed as finding and
adjudging that the plaintiffs were only entitled to recover the
possession of so much of the premises sued for as lies south of
the fence. indicated. For this reason the motioA was denied:
It is. an elementary rule that a writ 'f mandamus may be
used to require an inferior court to decide a matter within its

•jurisdiction and pending before it for judicial determination,
but not to .control the decision. Exo pcrte 1T l'n,
94 U. S.
350; E parte Railway Co., 101 U. S. 720; Ex },arte Burtis,
103 U. S. 238. Here a judgment has been rendered and entered of record by the Circuit Court in a suit within its jurisdictioii. The judgment is the act of the court. It is recorded
ordinarily by the clerk as the ministerial officer of the court,
but his recording is in legal effect the act of the court, and
subject to its judicial control. The clerk iecords the judgments of the court, but does not thereby render the judgments.
If there is error in the judgment as rendered it cannot be corrected by mandamus, but resort must be had to a writ of error
or an appeal. Pr parte Loring,94 U. S.418; EixartePerry,
102 U. S.183.
If a clerk in performing the ministerial act of recording a
judgment has committed an error, the court may on motion at
the proper time correct -it, or i&may do so in a proper case
upon its own suggestion without waiting for the parties. Here

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the plaintiffs, believing that the judgment as recorded did not
conform to the 'finding, moved the court to amend it in that
particular. This motion the court entertained, but, being of
the opinion that the judgment had been correctly recorded,
refused the amendment which was asked. In this the court
acted judicially, and its judgment on the motion can no more
be reviewed by mandamus than that which was origirnally
entered in the cause.
The writ isdenied with costs.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPAINY v.
MILLER, Auditor.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued March 18, 19, 1835.-Decided April 6, 1885.
The provision in the act of the Legislature of West Virginia incorporating the
Covington & Ohio Railroad Company that "no taxation upon the property
of the said company shall be imposed by the State until the. profits of said
Company shall amount to ten per cent. on the capital" was personal to
that company and did not inhere in the property so as to pass by a transfer
of it.
Immunity from taxation conferred on a corporation by legislation is not a
franchise.
forgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S 217, quoted and affirmed.
A statute of West Virginia regulated sales under foreclosure of mortgages
by railroad companies, and provided that "such sale and conveyance shall
pass to the purchaser at the sale, not only the works and property of the
company, as they were at the time of making the deed of trust or mortgage,
but any works which the company may, after that time and before the sale,
have constructed ;" and that "upon such conveyance to the purchaser, the
said company shall ipso facto be dissolved ;" and further, that "said purchaser shall forthwith be a corporation" and "shall succeed to all such
franchises, rights and privileges . . . -aswould have been had
by the first company but for such sale and conveyance :" eld, (1) That
purchasers thus becoming a corporation derived the corporate existence and
powers of the corporation from this act. and were subject to general laws
as to corporations then in force; (2) That an immunity from taxation enjoyed by the former corporation was not embraced in the words of description in the act, and did not pass to the new corporation.

