DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. B. & P. RAILROAD CO. 453
Counsel for Parties.

it cannot be enlarged by the' language in other parts of the
specification." Railroad Co. v. Xellon, 104: U. S.- 112. The
element of the process under consideration cannot, therefore,
be held to be covered by the patent. The contention that the
patentee intended to include it in his process is evidenitly an

afterthought.
The result of the views expressed is that both the patents
sued on are void.

Decree firmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COMMISSIONERS v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAIIROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Argued April 9,1885.-Decided April 20, 1885.

The right to use the streets of Washington for any other than the ordinary use
of streets must proceed from Congress.
In the absence.of express authoization by Act of Congress, -the Baltimore &
Potomac Railroad Company has no power to lay its railroad track in or
across the streets of the City of -Washington.
The several acts of Congress relating to that company give it no authority to
leave Maryland Avenue on its way from Ninth Street to the Long Bridge.
The act of incorporation of the Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Company by
the Stte of Maryland confers no power upon it to use the streets of a city,
as an incident of its right to run to or from such city.
Ch. 18. Rev. Stat. Dist. .Columbia, Gieneral Incorporation, Class 7, concerning
corporations, confers no power upon a rafiroad company to use the streets
of Washington without obtaining the previous assent of Congress.

The appellee in this court, as plaintiff in the court below,
filed its bill in equity to restrain the appellants from interfering with the laying of its track in certainstreets in the City
of Washington. Tudgment being rendered for plaintiff, de-

fendants appealed to this court. The facts which make the
case are stated in. the opinion of the court.
.Hr. A!hert G. Riddle for appellants.
.Xi. .Erwck Totten for appellee;

OCTOBER TERM, 1ss4.
Opinion of the Court.
A.ILLEr. delivered

the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the District of
Mi. JLUSTICE

Columbia.
The railroad company has constructed its road from Baltimore through the District of Columbia and through the city
of Washington, to the Potomac river at Long Bridge, on
which it crosses that river to the Virginia side. It has done thiis
bv virtue of several acts of Congress granting the necessary
authority to do so. At the Washington end of the bridge it
has purclased and now owns one of the squares of the city and
part of another, numbered, in the division of the city into
street, squares and lots, squares 233 and 267. These squares
are divided by Fourteenth Street, running north and south, and
square 267, on its south side, abuts on Maryland Avenue, one of

the streets of the city.

At the junction' of Maryland Avenue,

whose course is nearly east and west, and Fourteenth Street,
there is a considerable space of ground made by Water Street,
which follows the bank of the river, and the other two streets,
which is a public highway made by the union of all three streets
at that point. The map or diagram below, copied from the record, is necessary to a clear understanding of the controversy.
The railroad company alleges that its increased traffic requires
in the city of Washington additional accommnodations for receiving, storing and transferring freight, and that it has purchased the two squares mentioned for that reason, and that it
intends to build a freight depot on square 233, as being at once
convenient for the company and more out-of the way of the
travel, current business and residences of the citizens than
any point within reasonable distance of the line of the road.
As their road is at present located lawfully on Maryland
avenue, -along which it touches the city end of the bridge, this
allegation is probably true.
In order, however, to reach square 233 with its trains, they
must depart from Maryland Avenue and cross square 267 and
Fourteenth Street, which lies between the two squares, or they
must make a curve from the avenue around the south end of
square 267, and reach square 233 by the use of the public highway m-tde by the junction of Maryland Avenue, Water Street,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. B. & P. RAILROALD CO. 4.5
Opiion of the Court.

and Fourteenth Street, and, in so doing, depart from :Maryland
Avenue. The company gave notice, as required by law, to appellants, who, as Commissioners of the District of Columbia, are
.charged with the care and protection of the streets and other

-232

1

265

4

V)

.

26

highways of the city, that it intended to construct a lateral
track, which, leaving its main track on Maryland Avenue at a,
point near its intersection with Thirteenth Street, should cross
square 267 from its east to its west side, and then crossing
Fourteenth Street, would reach its projected depot on square
233. The Commissioners refused consent to this, and fearing
it would be attempted without such consent, they guarded the
way across the street by police force for-some time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

In this condition of affairs, the railroad company filed its bill
in chancery in the -Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
praying an injunction against the Commissioners, to prevent
.them from interfering with the exercise of the right which the
company claimed of laying its track across Fourteenth Street,
and that court granted the injunction as prayed.
The appeal of the Commissioners from this decree brings the
matter in issue before us for review. Neither the pleadings in
the case, nor the relief saught by the bill, nor the decree of the
court, bring into question the right of the company to purchase
squares 233 and 267, nor the right to erect on either of these a
warehouse or the storage of freight. Nor does the question
arise of their right to locate at that place such a depot as their
business requires, nor to use it as such, if they have the right
of access to it by using the streets and highways of the city
for that purpose. This court does not, therefore, consider those
questions, because the. only point raised by the record is the
right of the company to lay in or across the streets of the city
their railroad track, and use it as a means of transit for its locomotives and .cars, without any express authorization by act
)f Congress, or the consent of any authority representing the
ity of Washington or the District of Columbia.
The assertion of the existence of such a right is, to say the
least, somewhat novel. It is not known to any member of this
court that any railroad company, whether its cars are propelled
by steam or horse-power, has ever claimed to use the streets of
an incorporated city or any part of them, without express authority from some legislative body, or the authorities of the
city government. It would be a strange grant of power which,
authorizing a railroad company to enter or even pass through
a city, should leave t6 the company the selection, not only of
its route into or through- the city, but even the streets and
highways over which its tracks should be laid, subject only to
its sense of its own convenience and that of the people of the
city. Nor does the decision of a court of justice, that the
necessities of the company demand the use of these streets,
and that the locality of the depot.to which the track leads is
selected with a due regard to the interests of the whole city,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. B. & P. RAILROAD CO. 457
Opinion of the Court.
make this claim of power any the less remarkable. I'o judicial
decision is cited in favor of such propositions.
The streets of Washington are largely used.* by street railroad companies whose tracks occupy their surface. There are
some four or five of these companies, and their cars are propelled by horse-power and not by steam. They are not only a
great convenience to the citizens, but they have become almost
a public necessity. But it is not believed that a foot of all
these tracks over all these streets exists otherwise than by virtue of an act of Congress directing specifically and minutely
where this shall be done. And no power exists in one of these
corporations to lay a track, howeier short, anywhere else.
The railroad company now asserting this right runs its cars
from the east side of the city to the west, a distance of two
miles or more, through a densely populated part of the city,
over a track, the location of every foot of which is prescribed
with minuteness by acts of Congress. And its principal passenger depot, located several hundred yards from the main line
of its road through the city, makes this deflection from that
line solely by virtue of an express act of Congress, passed to
enable the company to do so.
It is with these well-known facts before us, showing the care
with which Congress. has repeatedly exercised the power of
granting, refusing and regulating the use of the streets of
Washington for railroads, that we approach the examination
of the statute or statutes which are supposed to grant the enlarged power claimed by the Baltimore and Potomac Company
in this instance.
The first and most important of these is the act of February
5, 1867,714 Stat. 387.
After reciting that it is represented that the Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad Company, incorporated by an act of the
General Assembly of Maryland, passed May 6, 1853, is desiroils to construct a lateral branch fr6m its road to the District
of Columbia, it is enacted that "said company shall be, and
they are hereby, authorized to extend into and within the District of Columbiaa lateral railroad, such as-the said company
shall construct or cause to be constructed, in a direction toward

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the said District, in connection with the railroad which they
are about to locate and construct from the City of Baltimore
lo the Potomac River, in pursuance of their said act of incorporation; and the said Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company are hereby authorized to exercise the same powers,
rights and privileges, and shall be subject to the same restrictions in the extension and construction of the said lateral railroad into and within the said District as they may exercise or
are subject to, under and by intent of their said charter or act
of incorporation, in the extension and construction of any railroad within the State of Maryland; and shall be entitled to
the same rights, compensation, benefits, and immunities, in the
use of the said road, and in regard thereto, as are provided in
their said charter, except the right to construct any lateral road
or roads within the said District from the said lateral branch
or road hereby authorized, it being expressly understood that
the said Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company shall have
power only to construct from the said Baltimore and Potomac
Railroad one lateral road within the said District to some
point or terminus within the city and county of Washington,
to be determined in the manner hereinafter mentioned."
Section 3 of this act, after describing the care with which the
company shall construct the road across any street or other way,
adds: "but the said company, in passing into the District aforesaid, and constructing the said road within the same, shall enter
the city of Washington at such place, and shall pass along
such public street or alley to such point or terminus within the
said city, as may-be allowed by Congress, upon presentation
of survey and map of proposed location of said road; Provided
that the level of said location within the said city shall conform
to the present graduation of the streets, unless Congress shall
authorize a different level?'
This provision of the original act, under which the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad enters this city, has never been repealed
or modified, as far as we are aware, and it fully asserts the
purpose of Congress to retain in its own hands the right to
the use of the treets of the city in.regard to this company and
its road, as it has in regard to all others.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. B. & P.'oRAILROAD CO. 459
Opiniont of the Court.

By another act, passed March 18, 1869, 16 Stat. 1, entitled as
supplementary to the one above cited, it was declarehl "that
said company may qnter the city of Washington with their
said railroad, and construct the same within the limits of said
city on and by whichever one of the two routes herein designated the said company may elect and determine, that is to
say:
"First. Beginning at the intersection of Boundary Street
and North Carolina Avenue; thence. along said North Carolina
Avenue to South D Street; thence. along South D Street, westwardly, to Virginia Avenue; thence, along Virginia Avenue,
northwestwardly, to the intersection of South C Street and
West Ninth Street; or,
"Second. Beginning at some point on the northern shore of
the Eastern Branch of the Potomac River, between South L
and Soith 11 Streets; thence westwardly between said streets
to the intersection of Virginia Avenue with South L and East
Twelfth Streets; thence along said Virginia Avenue, northwestwardly, to South K Street; thence along said South K
Street, westwardly, to South Fourth Street; thence, by a line
curving to the right, to the north bank of the canal; and thence
along the said bank of the canal, northwestwardly, to Virginia
Avenue; thence along. Virginia Avenue, northwestwardly, to
the intersection of South C and West Ninth Streets."
Whether this was in accordance with a map, or maps, furnished by the company we are not informed; probably it was.
But this is wholly immaterial, as this supplementary statute
was clearly made to allow the use of these streets as provided
in § 3 of the original act. By another act, approved March 25,
1870, Congress authorized the company to make some changes
in the line of its road between East Fourth Street and the
terminus at the junction of 0 Street south and Ninth Street
west, which change, however, is described with the same
particularity as the routes above described, and by the same
act the time for the completion of the road was extended.
The next act of Congress, approved June 21, 1870, 16 Stat.
161, also entitled as amendatory of the act of July -5, 1867,
authorizes the company to extend its road from the terminus

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

at Ninth Street, " by way of )aryland Avenue, conforming to
its grade, to the viaduct over the Potomac River at the City qf
Washington, known as the .ong Bridge, and extend their
tracks over said bridge and connect with any railroads constructed, or that may hereafter be constructed, in the State of
Virginia." The act then delivers over Long Bridge to the
company for its use as a railroad bridge, with conditions requiring it to be kept in good repair, and open t6 free use as a public highway for all the people.
It is by virtue alone of t&e words of this statute, which we
have cited in italics, that the road of the company is anywhere
near the bridge, or near the locus in quo of the present contro*versy. It requires a larger measure of liberality in construing
grants of the sovereign, and especially grants for the use of the
streets of a city for a railroad, than we are accustomed to, to
discover in this any authority to depart from Maryland Avenue
on its way from Ninth Street to the Long Bridge.
The company having its road well under way needed a passenger depot for its business, a need much more important than
its present need of an additional freight depot. It did not,
however, attempt to establish one under its general powers,
but made application to Congress, which authorized its construction, and in doing so described its location with great precision, and the streets along which the track must go, in departing from the right of way already granted.
This act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 585, required the assent
of the municipal authorities of the City of Washington for the
erection of the dtepot, and that assent was given by a joint
resolution of the board of aldermen and common council on
March 9, 1871. And so necessary did the company deem the
consent of Congress to this, or any other occupption of the
streets or public property of the city, that it procured the passage of the act of May 21, 1872, 17 Stat. 140, ratifying the
action of the city authorities in the matter, and setting out
with greater detail the direction of the lateral track to the
passenger depot, and the streets over which it should go.
The title to the streets of Washington is in the United States,
and not in the city, or in the owners of the adjacent lots.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. B. & P.. RAILROAD CO. 461
Opinion of the Court.
Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109
U. S. 672. It is, therefore, eminently proper that the right to
use them for any other than the ordinary use of streets should
proceed from Congress; and when we consider the express
reservation of the power of Congress to allow this use in the
original grant to the company, found in the third section of
that act, and the detail and precision with which every foot of
the track or tracks of the road has been prescribed by Congress,
and that every change which expediency required has been
previously authorized by Congress, we can see no place for the
assertion of any right in the company to make other tracks, or
changes in location of those now existing without, an act giving*
the consent of that body.
In the face of these statutes it is hardly necessary to look
into the language of the charter of the company- by the Legislature of Maryland to see if the powers thus conferred, and
which are said to be adopted by the act of Congress, give this
extraordinary power.
It is sufficient to say that we do not find in the Maryland
charter of that company any power- to use the streets of a city
as an incident of its right to run to or from such city. That
no such right is granted may be fairly inferred from the fact
that the track of this road runs for two miles under the city of
Baltimore in a tunnel built for that purpose, which must have
delayed the completion of the ropA two or three years, and
cost a large sum of mon6y. 'The company certainly would not
have used this expensive underground roadway if anything in
its charter authorized it to use the surface streets of the city.
And if the construction which counsel place upon that charter is sound, it is very certain that Congress did not intend
extending that power of the company into the District of Columbia, and part with its own control of the streets and high-ways of Washington City, for such a power is in conflict with
the express language of the act, and with the cqn-tant practice
under it.
We are referred by counsel to the Revised Statutes of the
District of Columbia, ch. 18, concerning Corporations. Class
7 of that chapter, §§ 618-676, provides for the .voluntary

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
association of individuals into corporations for building railroads in the District. It grants these corporations, when
formed in compliance with the rules there prescribed, ,all the
usual powers of such companies organized under State statutes,
and all that are necessary to the operation of a railroad, and
the powers thus c6nferred are, in the main, very liberal.
There are two reasons, however, why these provisions can
give no aid to the Baltimore and Potomac Company.
1. That corporation is organized under a special statute of
the State of Maryland, and is a corporation of that State. The
act of Congress of February 5, 1867, merely authorized that
Maryland corporation to extend its road into the District of
Columbia, and in defining the powers which the company
should exercise in the District, it referred to and adopted, in
the main, the act of the State of Maryland granting the charter.
This was three years before the general incorporation law
was enacted by Congress, and the company has never or
ganized under that law, or professed to be governed by it, or
asserted itself to be a corporation of the District. of Columbia.
Whether it could do this or not it is unnecessary to decide; but
it is very plain that the power conferred by that' act was designed only for corporations organized under it, and is not
conferred on corporations created by States of the Union, governed by the laws of those States.
2. But if this were not so, and if this company could exercise all the powers which that statute grants to corporations
organized under it, the statute itself shows, as all the legislation
by Congress has shown, both before and since, that that body
never intended to part with the right to designate the route of
a railroad through the city, and on what streets its track
should'be located, and which streets it should use. This is
plain from one of the closing sections' of the chapter of the
Revised Statutes on that subject, namely:
"SEC. 673. No railroad shall be built under the provisions of
this chapter until the route and termini of such road have
been approved by Congress."
This section of the general law for the voluntary organization of corporations for building railroads in the District of

PACIFIC BANK v. MIXTER.
Counsel for Parties.

Columbia, expresses the same idea and the same purpose that
section three of the act authorizing the Baltimore and Potomac company to enter the District does, namely, to retain in
the hands of Congress the absolute control of the use of the
streets of the city by any railroad company whatever.
We are of opinion that, when this company wishes to depart in any direction from the line of its present track as prescribed for it by acts of Congress, it must obtain permission to
do so from that body. And that Congress, and not the court
nor the company, is the judge of the expediency or the necessity of such change, and of the manner in which the public
good requires it to be made and the safeguards, which should
accompany it.
The dec'ree of the Supreme Court qf the -s1)trict of Columbia
is reversed, and'the case P'emanded,with directions to dismiss the bill.

PACIFIC BANK v.

IXTER.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FORT
DISTRICT OF ArASSAcHUSETTS.
Submitted April 13, 1385.-Decided April 20,1885.

§ 1001 Rev. Stat. exempts insolvent national banks or the receivers thereof,
bringing causes to this court by Writ of error or on appeal by direction of
the Comptroller of the Currency, from the obligation to give security.
It is no cause for dismissal of a writ of error brought by a receiver of a national bank that in one of the papers by clerical error he is given a wrong
name.

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error for reasons
stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. Joshua D. Ball for the motion.
.Mr. A. A. Ranney opposing.

