OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

and that the matter thereof should be decreed accordingly ; the
decree to be absolute unless cause should be shown at the next
term. See Equity Rules VI. and X. of 1822, 7 Wheat. vii,
and'Pendleton v. Evans, 4 Wash. C. 0. 335 ; O'Harav. AfaConnell, 93 U. S. 150. Under these rules the English practice
was left to govern the subsequent course of proceeding, by
which, as we have seen, the defendant might have an order to
permit him to appear before the mast6r,-and be entitled to
notice. Whether under the present rule a different practice
was intended to be introduced is a question which it is not
necessary to decide in this case.
The decree of the Circuit Court is a mffied.

HAYES v. HOLLY SPRINGS.
IN ERROR TO THE DISTRICT -COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
18S.-Decided March 30, 1885.
Argued March i7,
The Constitution of Aliississippi, adopted December 1, .869, provided as follows, (Art. 12, sec. 14:) "The Legislature shall not 'authorize any county,
city, or town, to become a stockholder in, or to lend its credit to, any company,. association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters
of such county, city, or town; at a special election, or regular election, to be
held therein, shall assent thereto." A city in that State subscribed for stock
in a railroad corporation, after what was called a "special election" was"
held, but neither the election nor the subscription was authorized by any act
of the Legislature. Afterward, the Legislature passed an act providing
"that all subscriptions to the capital stock of the" corporation, "made by
any county, city, or town in this State which were not made in violation of
the Constitution of this State, are hereby legalized, ratified, and confirmed."
Thereafter the city issued bonds to pay for its subscription. In a suit
against the city, by, a 6ona fide holder of coupons cut from the bonds, to
recover their amount: Held,
(1.) The intention of the Legislature to confirm and ratify the subscription
could not be ascertained with certainty from the language of the act;
(2.) The bonds were void, for want of power to issue them, notwithstanding
any recitals on their face, or any acts in pais, claimed to operate by way of
estoppel.

HAYES.'v. HOLLY SPRINGS..

121"

Opinion of the Court.

This was a suit for the collection of coupons cutfrom bonds,
issued by the defendanpt, a municipal corporation in Mississippi.
The facts which make the: case are stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. H. T Elett for plaintiff in error.
.Jfr. E..,-3.%'Fatson[Mr. W. S. Feathemlsn also filed a brief
for same] for defendant in error.
Mr.. JUSTI E BiLOcHFOnD delivered the opinion of the court.

-This is a suit at- law brought by J. Addison Hayes, in the.
District- Court of the United States for the Northern District of.
Mississippi, against the Mayor and Aldermen- of the city of,
Holly Springs, to recover the sum of $8,560, as due on 568
coupons, cut from 43 bonds, for the payment of $16,250, purporting to be issued by the city of. Holly Springs, in the State
of Mississippi, the bonds ind coupons being owned, by -the
plaintiff., Each bond is in the following form:
"State of Mississippi, City of Holly Springs. ,Bohd. Issued
in payment of -tock of the Selm,
arion and Meiphis
Railroad q. No. *,' '$. Fifteen years.
Know all men by these presents, . that the City of Holly
Springs, Marshball Coupty, in the State of'Mississi~pi, acknowledges itself indebted and firmly. bound to the Selma, Marion
and 1vIomphis Railroad Company, in the sum of dollars,
'which sum the City of Holly Springs promises to pay tothe
Sehna I a ion and Memphis Railroad Company,-or bearer., &l
the Holly Springs- Savings and Inshrance Company,, Holly
Springs,' Mississippi, on the first day of January, A.D: one
.thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven, together with the
inter6st thereon from the' first day of January, A.D. one thousand 'eight hundred and seventy-two, at the rate of eight percent. per annum, which interest shall be payable semi-annually,
on the presentation and delivery of the attached interest coupons, at the office of the, said Holly Springs Savings and Insurance Oompany.

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of the Court.

This bond is issued under and in pursuance to an order of
the Board of Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Holly
Springs, Marshall County, State of Mississippi, made under authority of the Constitution of the State of Mississippi, and
the laws of the Legislature of the State of Mississippi, and
authorized by a vote of the people of the said City of Holly
Springs, at a special election held for the purpose.
[Corporate seal.] In testimony whereof, the said City of
Holly Springs has executed this bond by the mayor of said
city, under the order of said city's board of mayor and aldermen, signing his name thereto, and by the treasurer of said
city, under the order thereof, attesting the same, and affixing
thereto the said seal of the said city of Holly Springs.
This done at the city of Holly Springs, Marshall County,
State of Mississippi, this first day of January, A.D. 1872.
HENRY A. COOPEm,

Mayor of the City of Holly Springs.
LEwis BEEHLER,

f reasurerof the City qf HEolly Spfrings."
The questions in the case arise on a demurrer to the declara
tion, the facts alleged in which are as follows: The-defendant
is t municipal corporation created by the Legislature of the
State of Mississippi. By the Constitution of Mississippi,
adopted December 1, 1869, and still in force, it is provided as
follows, by Article 12, section 14: "The Legislature shall not
authorize any county, city, or town to become a stockholder
in, or to lend its credit to, any company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such county,
city, or town, at a special election, or regular election,, to be
held therein, shall assent thereto." In the fall of 1871 the inhabitants of the city of Holly Springs were desirous that the
city should subscribe for stock in the Selma, Marion and Memphis Railroad Company, whese road was to be constructed
through or near the city. The mayor and aldermen, in conformity to the wishes of the inhabitants, on theday of
,1871, ordered a special election to be held, in pursuance
of the Constitution, on the 30th day of December, 1871, to

HAYES v. HOLLY SPRINGS.
Opinion of the Court.

ascertain whether two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city
would assent to a subscription by it to $75,000 of the capital
stock of said company, and to issue the bonds of the'city in
payment of the subscription, "having to run" to the 1st of
January, 1887, and bearing interest at eight per cent..per annum, payable semi-annually. Due notice was given of the
election, and it was held on'the 30th of December, 1871, under
the direction and supervision of the mayor and aldermen; and,
at the election, largely more than. two-thirds of all the qualified voters of the city voted in favor of the subscription and
the issuing of the bonds, and assented thereto, and thereby
authorized and directed the mayor and aldermen to make the
subscription, and to issue and deliver the, bonds. After the
election, to wit, on the 1st of January, 1872, the defendant, in
pursuance of the vote, sul's&ibed for $75,000 of the capital'
stock of the company, and agreed and undertook to issue its
bonds i payment thereof as soon as the same could be prepared, and received the regular and proper certificates therefor,
which it still holds aid has never surrendered or offered to sur.render. By an Act of the Legislature of Mlississippi, approved
March 16, .1872, Laws of 1872, ch. 75, p. -313, entitled "An Act
to facilitate the construction of the Selma, Marion and Memphis Railroad," it was provided, § 4, "that all subscriptions to
the capital stock of tle said Selma, Marion and Memphis
Railroad Company, made by.any couanty, city, or town in this
State, which were not made in violation of the Constitution'of
this State, are hereby legalized, ratified, and confirmed." By
another act -f that Legislature, approved April 19, 1872, Laws
of 1,872, ch. 102, p. 120, it was provided, § 1, "1that any county
through which any railroad will pass, incorporated city or tow.n
along the'line of any railroad, or contiguous thereto, niay subscribe to the cipital stock of said company in any sum;" and
§ 2, 1that no such subscription shall be made until the question
has been submitted to the legal voters of such county or counties, city or cities, incorporated town or towns, in which the
subscription is proposed to be made;" and § 3, that if it.shall
appear that two-thirds of the -legal voters of such county, city,
or town have voted for subscription, the subscription shall be

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

made, and bonds not having more than twenty years to run to
maturity be issued to the company therefor., On the 26th of
April, 1872, the defendant, in payment of the subscription, executed and delivered to the cornpany its coupon bonds, under
its corporate sea], to the amount of $75,000, bearing date January 1, 1872, and ,payable January 1, 1887, with interest at the
rate of eight per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, and
in the form before set forth, with coupons for the semi-annual
interest attached, of the following form:
"CITY OF HOLLY SPRINGS,
-MARSHALL COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI,

"January1st, 1872.
$The C;V of Holly Springs acknowledges to owe the
sum ofdollars, payable to bearer on the first day of
18 , at the office of the Holly Springs Saving and
Insurance Company, Holly Springs, Mississippi, for six months'
interest on bond No.
(No. of bond.)
L.wIs

BEEtLER,

Treasurer of the City of Holly Sringe."
After the issuing and delivery of- the bonds to the company,
the defendant, for several years, continued to levy and collect
taxes for' the payment of the interest accruing on the 'onds,
and took up the coupons as they fell due,, and voted the stock
so subscribed, in the election of directors of the company, and
in all, stockholders' meetings of the company. On the 1st of
January, 1875, the plaintiff became the bona fide holder for
value, in due course of trade, and without any notice or knowledge of any illegality in the bonds, or want of power to issue
them, of foity-three of the bonds, and is the owner of five
hundrea and sixty-eight of' the coupons, identifying sufficiently
the bonds and coupons.
The demurrer sets forth, as causes of demurrer, that the
declaration does not show that there was any power to order
the election, or to hold it, or to subscribe for the stock, 6r to
issue the bonds and coupons.
The court sustained the demurrer, and judgment was given
for the defendant. The plaintiff has brought a writ of error.

HAYES v. HOLLY SPRINGS.

125'"

Opinion of the Court.

It is not claimed there was any statute in existence which
authorized at the time the action of the mayor and aldermen
of the city in ordering what is called the" special election" to
be held, or which authorized at the time the holding of any
election, general or special, on the question of a subscription to
the stock of the company. Under the provision of the Constitution of iMississippi before cited, it is clear that the authority
of the Legislature isnecessary to enable the county, city or
town to become a stockholder in, or lend its credit to a corporation. The Act of March 16, 1872, relied on as the validating
Act, was passed after the so-called election took place, and
after the making of the subscription, but before the issuing of
the bonds.
It is contended for the plaintiff in error, that the Constitution contemplated that the vote might be taken in advance of
the granting by the Legislature of authority to subscribe. But,
however that may be, it is manifest, we think, that'the provision of the Constitution confers, no authority to subscribe for
stock. The"Legislature must authorize the subscription, either
by a statute, passed in advance, providing for an election, and
for obtaining the assent of the required two-thirds of the
qualified voters, to be folloved by a subscription; or by a proper
statute of distinct ratification and authorization. passed after
there has been such assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters,
at an election, as the Constitution requires. The provision'is
inhibitory on the Legislature, and not permissive or enabling
to the city.
Whether the voting which the declaration says took place
was the holding of such an election as the Constitution coAtemplated (for the assent is to be given at an election to .beheld,
and not otherwise), is a question not necessary to be decided.
Because we are of opinion that the Act relied on as a validating or ratifying Act has no such effect. It providds, "that all
subscriptions to the capital stock of the" company in question,
"made by any county, city, or town in this State, which were
not made in violation of the Constitution of this State, are
hereby legalized, ratified, and confirmed." It is urged, that ihe
qualifying words "which were not made in violation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Constitutioa of this State," were unnecessary, because the
Legislature could not make valid any act done in violation of
the Const'tution; and it is sought to have the provision construed as if it read that all subscriptions, made after such a
voting as took place in this case, are legalized, ratified, and
tonfirmed. But this assumes that the Legislature regarded such
voting as being the -holding of such a special election as' the
Constitution- requires. If the Legislature had distinctly, in
words, designated and identified such voting, and adopted it as
being such an election, and as evidencing the assent required
by the Constitution, it might be held that there was an intention manifested to ratify this particular voting and assent and
subscription, still leaving it open to be determined whether, on
the whole, the Constitution had been complied with, and the
Legislature had, in fact and in law, authorized the subscription.
Such a designation and identification of a voting at an electibn, described a resulting_ in an approval by the constitutional
two-thirds of the qualified voters, followed by an authority to
Grenada County, declared to be based on such approval, to
subscribe for stock in the Vicksburg and iNashville Railroad
Company, is found in the act of the Legislature of Mississippi,
approved January -.27, 1872, Laws of 1872, ch. 71, p. 290, § 4,
seven weeks before the act in question was approved. It was
the act involvedin Grenada County v. Brogden, 112 U. S. 261,
where this court held that it was a valid confirmatory act. But
no such view can be taken of the act in this case. The intention
of the Legislature to confirm and ratify the subscription in question cannot be ascertained, with certainty, from the language
of the act, which is too vague to form the basis of so important
an authority as that sought to be deduced from it. As is said
in State v. S toll, 17"Wall. 425, 436, if the Legislature intended
to do what is claimed "it was bound to do: it openly, intelligibly and in language not to be misunderstood," and "as a
doubtful or obscure declaration would not be justifiable, so it
is not to be imputed'"
Even a bona fde holder.of a municipal bond is bound to
.show legislative authority in the issuing body to create the
lond. Recitals on the face of the bond or acts in pais, operat-

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Ing by way of estoppel, may cure irregularities i the execution
of a statutory power, but they cannot create it. If, as in the
present case, legislative authority was wanting, the bond has
no validity
The generalb act of April 19, 18712, is referred to in- the
declaration. But it does not avail in this case, for, although
the bonds were issued after its passage, the subscription took
place before, and the act applies only to future elections and
subscriptions and" authorizes only bonds bearing interest at
seven per cent. per annum.
Judgmmet caffined.

MOWER v. FLETCHER.
SAME v.. SAME & Another.
3N ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE .STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 23, 1885.-Decided March 30,'1885.

" judgment of the Supreme Court of a State remanding a case to a State colart
with orders to enter a specifed judgment is a final judgment for the purposes of a writ of error to this Court.
A judgment of a superior court remanding a case to an inferior court for
eritry of judgment, and leaving no judicial discretion to the latter, as to
further proceedings, -isfinal.

These were motions to 'dismiss two causes brought here in
error from the Supreme Court of California. The grounds for
the motions are stated in the opimon of the court.
-fr' X. D B 'a and and Mr J7ames K. Redington -for the
motions.
.X& Willim T Jo nston, opposing.

MR. CmnF JUSTICE WA= -deliveredthe opinion of the court.
These motions are made on the ground that the judgments

