OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

should be receivable for back taxes at the same rate that the
old indebtedness would have been received if no exchange had
been made.
We see no vested right of plaintiffs which is violated by the
decree, no contract of theirs impaired by the legislation complained of, and no injustice done them, and especially none
which this court can remedy.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is, therefore,
Affirmed.

HUNTLEY v. HUNTLEY & Another.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Argued March 17, 18, 1885.-Decided April 6, 185.
C. bought an undivided one'third interest in a stage company, intending that
S. should have one-half of the one-third, and, before the purchase, informed
S. of such intention. At the time there was an unsettled account between
C. and S., in respect of servicas rendered by S. to C., and of certain business
in which they-were both interested. After the purchase, C. agreed verbally
with S. that S. should have the one-sixth at the price C. had paid for it,
any amount due by C. to S. to be applied towards payment for the onesixth, the ownership of it by S. to commence at once. Afterwards, the
four owners of the property, of whom S. and C. were two, executed a paper,
under seal, in which the interests of the four were defined, S. and C. being
stated to be the owners of one-third ; and all, including C., thereafter recognized S. as owning one-sixth, subject, as between S. and C., to the liability of S. to reimbgrse C. what he had paid for such one-sixth : Held,
(1.) The contract was executed, and S. was put in possession, and the statute
of frauds, 29 Car. 2, ch. 3, § 17* did not apply.
(2.) S. was entitled to have credit, on his purchase of the one-sixth, for what
C. owed him on the accounts aforesaid : and C. was entitled to recover from
S. the residue of what he had paid for the one-sixth.

This was a bill in equity for an account and for other relief.
For several years prior to June 27, 1874, the appellee,
Charles C. Hfuntley, was engaged .on numerous routes in the
West and Northwest in the business of transporting the mails

HUNTLEY v. HUNTLEY.
Statement of Facts.

of the United States and passengers. On some of those routes
.S. S. Huntley was interested with him, while on others he was
his general manager and agent, with unrestricted authority to
conduct the business as, in his judgment, was best for his principal. Among the companies in which C. C. Huntley had an
interest were the Northwest Stage Company-engaged in
transporting mails and passengers on routes in the. State of
Oregon, and in the Territories of Utah, Idaho and Washington
-and the'Oregon and California Stage Company, which was
engaged in like business on the route from Oraville, California,
to Portland,, Oregon. In the former company, Bradley Barlow
and James W. Parker each had an undivided interest of onethird, while C. C. Huntley and Adam E. Smith had each an
undivided interest of one-sixth; in the latter, Barlow, C. C.
luntley, Parker and one Sanderson had each an undivided
interest of one-fourth.
. On the 27th day of June, 1874, Parker, by bill
of sale, transferred to C. C. Huntley his interest in the property and assets
of both those companies. The consideration paid was $75,000,
for which the vendee executed his several promissory notes to
Barlow, who indorsed them to Parker..
On the 22d day of December, 1874, the following instrument
of writing was executed by the parties theret9:
"Know all men by these presents, that whereas Bradley
Barlow is the owner of one half of the stock, property, and
effects of what was known as the Northwest Stage Company,
and S. S. and C. C. Huntley are the owners of one-third of
said property, and Adam E. Smith is the owner of one-sixth
of said property, and each of the said parties share respectively
in the above proportions in all the mail routes lately operated
by said company, and are to share in the future on all those
routes in the above proportions in the ownership, profits, losses,
aid expenses appertaining thereto or incident to the obtaining
said mail routes, and it is agreed between us that the said
Barlow shall have.full power and authority to collect and pay
on said routes during the present contract term for the benefit
of the said parties herein named in the proportions to each

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

party hereinbefore stated, and that full powers of attorney in
all cases shall be made and delivered to the said Barlow to
collect all mail pay on all routes now owned or hereinafter
acquired by the aforesaid parties, or either of them, in the territory embraced by the service of the late Northwest Stage
Company.
"In witness vthereof, we have hereunto set our. hands and
seals; this 22d day of December, A.D. 1874.
BRADLEY BARLOW.

[SEAL.]

C. C. HuNTLEY.
S. S. HL-TLEY.

[SEAL.]

ADAM E. SMITH.

[SEAL.]

[SEAL.]

"In the presence ofJ. L. SANDERsoN."

Shortly after the execution of that paper, C. C. Iuntley, for
$30,000, sold to Barlow one-half of the interest in the Northwest Stage Company which the former had purchased from
Parker.
The present suit was instituted by S. S. Huntley on the 14th
day of December, 1878, hgainst C. C. Iuntley, Barlow, and
Smith. The bill alleged, among other things, that plaintiff
and defendants were the owners of the stock, property and
effects of the Northwest Stage Company, and that their respective interests were distinctly set forth and agreed upon in
the before-mentioned writing of December 22, 1874; that
Barlow had purchased Smith's interest, and, under the authority
given him, had collected all the mail pay earned by the company for its contract term ending June 30, 1878, but had not
made a final settlement, in respect of such collections, with
those interested with him; that he had, also, sold the property
of the company for $75,000, but had not fully accounted
therefor; that C. C. Huntley denied that plaintiff had any interest in that property or in its proceeds, and, unless restrained,
would collect and appropriate to his own use all the proceeds
and profits arising from the one-third interest which originally
stood in the name of C. C. and S. S.. Huntley, one-half of which,
that is, one-sixth of. the entire property, belonged to plaintiff.

HUNTLEY v.,HUNTLEY.
Statrnent of Facts.

The prayer of the bill was for an ascertainment of the amount
in Barlow's hands, in respect of the said one-sixth interest, and
that plaintiff have a decree for such sums as may be justly due
him.
C. C. Huntley, in his answer, denied that plaintiff ever
acquired any interest in the purchase from Parker, or that the
paper of December 22, 1874, of the signing of. which he had -no
recollection, was intended to be anything more than a declaration, or admission, ofthe parties that Barlow was authorized to
receive the moneythat might become due to the company from
time to time. He said: "I did not in said paper-writing intend
to admit, nor have I ever admitted, nor do I now admit, but,
on the contrary deny, that the said plaintiff was, or is, or was
to be, an equal owner with me in the said one-third interest in
said Northwest Stage Company, its property, profits, assets,
&c., except in the event of the repayment to me of the said
sum of $45,000, so expended in the purchase of said shares asaforesaid, with interest thereon ; and, although no agreement to
that effect was.ever entered into, I have always been, and am
now, willing that the said plaintiff shall have all the profi$ that
has been made or derived in respect of one-sixth interest in said
:Northwest Stage Company, and said one-fourth interest in
said Oregon and California Stage dompany, since the 1st day
of July, 1874, provided there be first repaid to me the said cost
price of said purchase, to wit, the said sum of $45,000, with
interest from June 27, 1874."
By the decreo of the court below, in special term, it was
adjudged that plaintiff recoyer of the defendant Barlow onesixth of the property and money, in his hands, of the Northwest Stage Company, and the latter was enjoined from paying
to C. C. Huntley any part thereof. The cause was referred to
an auditor to ascertain the amount of plaintiff's interest, and
to state all proper and necessary accounts. Upon appeal to
the general term that decree was reversed with costs. The
plaintiff below appealed to this court.
.A1r". WINlam F. _lattingly and 2W '. Enoch Totte
pellant.

for al

393

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

_X'. J -ubley Ashkton and Xb. Walter D. Davidge (M.
]Vatluniel Wilson was with them) for appellees.
M . JUSTICE HAiRLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
While there is some conflict in the testimony as to the circumstances attending the purchase by C. C. Huntley of Parker's
interest in these companies, we are of opinion upon a careful
examination of the evidence:
1. That the purchase -by C. C. Huntley was pursuant to an
understanding between him and Barlow, that the latter should
have one-half of the Parker interest in the Northwest Stage
Company, and with the purpose, on the part of C. C. Huntley,
that S. S. Huntley, should have the other half;
2. That before such purchase, S. S. Huntley was informed by
C. C. Hluntley of the latter's intention to let him have one-half
of that interest;
3. That, at tho time of such purchase, there was 9h unsettled
account between C. C. Huntley and S. S. Huntley in respect as
well of services rendered by the latter as agent and general
manager for the former, as of mail contracts and business in
which they were jointly interested, other than those relating to
routes not occupied by the Northwest Stage Company or other
companies with which Barlow was connected;
4. That C. C. Huntley, in execution of his avowed purposes
with reference to S. S. Huntley, verbally agreed with the latter, while they were together in the west in the summer or fall
of 18,74, after the purchase from Parker, that he should have
one-half of the original Parker interest in the two companiesthat is, the remaining one-sixth interest in the Northwest Stage
Company, and one-eighth interest in the other companyat the price which C. C. Hluntley had paid for them; the
amount, if any, due to S. S. Huntley, on account of the beforementioned services and contracts, to be applied in payment as
far as it would go for the interests so transferred to him; .
5. That the ownership of those interests by S. S. Hluntley
was not to be deferred until a settlement of accounts between
him and C. C Huntley was had, but was to take effect as of

HUNTLEY v. HIINTLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

July 1, 18'[4, when the new contract term of those companies
commenced; •
6. That the writing of December 22, 1874, was executed
because of the then contemplated absence of C.C.Huntley in
Europe for the benefit of his health, and to show the interest
which S. S. Huntley had previously acquired, and then, under
the agreement with 0. C. Huntley, actually had in the property
and busifiess of the Northwest Stage Company;
7.That, thereafter, all parties concerned in the affairs of that
company, including 0. C. Huntley, recognized and treated S. S.
Huntleyas the owner of one-sixth interest in its property and
assets, subject, however, so far as C.C. Huntley was concerned,
to the liability of S. S. Huntleyto reimburse him for the amount
which that interest had cost.
In behalf of the appellee Huntley, it is contended, that the
verbal agreement, upon which appellant relies as the foundation for his claim, is void under § 17 of the statute of 29
Car. IL ch. 3, which is in force in the District of Columbia,
and which provides that "No contract for the sale of any goods,
wares, and merchandise for the price of ten pounds sterling, or
upward, shall be allowed to be good, except the buyer shall accept part of the goods sold, and actually receive the same, or
give something in earnestto bind the bargain, or in part payment,
or that some note or memorandum, in writing., of said bargain
be made and signed by the parties, to be charged by such contract, or their agents, thereunto lawfully authorized." Kelty's
Eng. Statutes, 242, Thompson's Digest, 221.
The argument in support of this. proposition i§: That the
Northwest Stage Company was a species of partnership with
'joint-stock divided into transferable shares, which could be
disposed of by the owner without the consent of his partners;
that such shares were substantially like stock in corporations or
regular joint-stock companies; and that the alleged verbal sale
of an interest in that company was void under the foregoing
statute, because, as is claimed, the words "goods, wares, and
merchandise," as therein used, properly embrace not merely
palpable personal property, having an intrinsic value, but also
stocks in chartered corporations, shares or interests in joint-

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of the Court.

stock companies, or private partnerships having the incidents
of such companies, notes, checks, bonds, and other evidences of
value.
Without determining whether this statute governs the rights
of the parties, or whether this interpretation of its provisions is
sustained by the weight of authority, or whether the writing of
December 22, 187-4, is not itself a sufficient memorandum in
writing of the sale in question, it is enough to say that the contract between C. C. Huntley and S. S. iHuntley was so far executed that the rights and obligations of the parties cannot be
affected by the statute. To the extent that it was possible or
necessary in respect -of property of this character, the vendee
was placed in possession of that which he purchased. This is
shown by the evidence of several witnesses, and is established
by the paper of December 22, 1874, which declares that S. S.
and C. C. Huntley.are the owners of one-third of the stock,
property, and effects of the Northwest Stage Company, and, as
such and to that extent, are to share in all the mail routes ten
lately operated by that company, and to share, in thefuture,in
the profits, losses, and expenses appertaining thereto. , There is
some evidence tending to show that when this paper was executed C. C. Hluntley was in poor health, but it falls short of
proving that he was incapable, in law, of becoming a party to
such an- instrument. Nor does his answer assert any such incapacity as a ground of defence. Besides, that writing is in
accordance with the.understanding reached between him and
S. S. Hluntley prior to its execution.
The decrees, in general and in special term, are, in our judgment, erroneous; the former, because it denied all relief to the
plaintiff; and the latter because it proceeded upon the ground
that the evidence showed that S. S. Huntley had fully paid for
the interest sold and transferred to him by C. C. Huntley.
The case should go to an auditor,, to ascertain the amount,
-if any, fairly, and justly due S. S. Huntley from C. C. Huntley
at the time of his purchase from C. C. Huntley-such amount
to be applied in payment of S. S. IHuntley's indebtedness to
C. C. Huntley, on account of the purchase from the latter of
one-half of the Parker interest in the Northwest Stage Com-

STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

pany And if C. C. Huntley was not indebted to S. S. Huntley
at that date, then the former will be entitled to be reimbursed
out of the funds in the hands of Barlow, for all that he paid for
the one-sixth part sold to S. S. Huntley, with interest thereon
from the time of the purchase from Parker, the balance, if
any, to go to S. S. Huntley Such further decree should be
rendered after the report of the auditor as the facts thus disclosed will justify or require.
The decree below s reversed, with directonfor such proceed'tngs as will be consstent with thw opinwn.

STATE BANK v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL- FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued April 2, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

Where, by the conmvance of a clerk in the office of an assistant treasurer of
the United States, a person unlawfully obtains from that office money belonging to the United States, and, to replace it, pays to the clerk'money
which he obtains by fraud from a bank, the clerk having no'knowledge of
the means by which the latter money was obtained, the United States are
not liable to refund the money to the bank.
The case distinguished from United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S., 30.

The appellant brought this action in the Court of Claims to
recover from the United States the sum of $125,000 with interest from, March 1, 1867. The petition having been dismissed, the question, upon this appeal, was as to the liability
of the United States to any judgment in favor of the
appellant.
The facts found by the Court of Claims, and upon which the
correctness of the judgment below must depend, were as follows
The appellant, in February and March, 1867, was a national
bankang association, having its place of business in the City of
VOL. cxiv-26

