OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

XENIA BANK v. STEWART & Others, Administrators.
IN

ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued March 2, 1885.-Decided March 30, 1885..

The declaration of a cashier of a national bank concerning a disputed payment
of money into the bank to take up a note left there for collection may be
used by the plaintiff in a suit against the bank to recover the amount received by it from the sale of collateral held as security for the payment of
the note-if the declaration was made at the time of the transaction, or
in response-to timbly inquiries by parties interested.
It is within the scope of the general authority of the cashier of a national bank'
to receive offers for the purchase of securities held by the bank, and to state
whether or not the bank owns securities which a customer wishes to buy.
A statement by the cashier of a national bank that the bank is not the owner
of a security in his manual possession as cashier, is within the line of hiu
duty, and is admissible in evidence against the bank as the act of its authorized agent.
A letter signed bya cashier of a national bank on official paper of the bank, respecting the transaction which forms the subject of the controversy, written to a party to the transhction, and while it was going on, is admissible
in evidence, in a suit against the bank.
On an issue whether a deceased party had furnished money to pay a, note, it is
not allowable to attempt to show that for more than a year previous he had
been hopelessly insol vent, and had experienced great difficulty in procuring
means to meet his obligations.
A creditor of a person having possession of property of the debtor, cannot, without judicial process, and against the debtor's will, sell the property and apply its proceeds to the payment of his debt,

This was an action brought by defendants in error against
plaintiff in error, to recover the value of thirty certificates
of shares in the bank of the plaintiff in error, owned by
defendants' intestate in his lifetime, and sold by the bank after
his death. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
_Cr. Tohn Little, for plaintiff in error, submitted on his
brief.
Xk. Edgar _. Jonson, for defendants in error.

XENIA BANK v. STEWART.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JusTicE

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in error were the plaintiffs in the Circuit
Court. They alleged in their petition that the plaintiff in error,
the First National Bank of Xenia, Ohio, being in possession of
thirty shares of its own capital stock belonging to their intestate, Daniel MkvcMillan, on October 24, 1876, sold them for
$4,200 in cash, and unlawfully appropriated the proceeds of
the sale to its own use. They therefore demanded judgment
against the bank for $4,200, with interest from October 24,
1876.
The defendant answered thdt McMillan, the intestate, in
April, 1876, was owing it, upon a debt previously contracted, a
sum greater than the value of the stock, and, being so indebted,
delivered to it the certificates of stock as collateral security
therefor, and that on October 24, 1876, the debt being still unsatisfied, the defendant sold the stock at its market value and
applied the proceeds as a credit on the debt, leaving a balance
due and uipaid.
The plaintiffs replying denied that their intestate delivered
the certificate of stock to the bank as collateral security for
such debt, and denied the right of the bank to receive the certificates as collateral security, or to sell the stock or apply its
proceeds to the payment of the debt.
Upon this issue the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs,
and assessed their damages at $6,035.50, upon which the court
rendered the judgment which the present writ of error brings
under review.
The only issue in the case was found by the jury for the defendants in error. The judgment should, therefore, -be affirmed,
unless the court, in the progress of the trial, committed some
error to the prejudice of the plaintiff in error. This the latter
insists was done.
The first. assignment of error relates to the admission in
evidence of certain declarations of F. H. McClure, the cashier of
the plaintiff in error.
The bill of exceptions states that on the trial the defendants
in error offered testimony tending to show that the intestate,
Daniel McMillan, was, on April 14, 1876, the owner of thirty
"voL cxivy- 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

shares of the capital stock of the bank standing in his name
upon its books, represented by two certificates, one for twenty
and the other for ten shares; that on the day just mentioned
he made his note for the payment, six month's after date, to the
order of F. A. McClure, of $2,600; that he attached the certificate for twenty shares to this note as security for its payment, and through the medium of the payee, McClure, who was
the cashier of the plaintiff in error, the note was discounted by
one James K. Hyde, and that the remaining ten shares were
deposited with the plaintiff in error, and held by it for safekeeping, and not for any other purpose; that on Monday
morning, October 23, 1876, McMillan died, and that on the
afternoon of that day, McClure, the cashier, having heard of
the death of McMillan, sold his thirty shares of stock to E. H.
Mlunger for $4-,200, and credited that amount to McMillan on
the books of the bank.
The bill of exceptions further stated that the defendants in
error introduced evidence tending to show that a few days
prior to his death McMillan had paid to the bank the amount
due on his note held by Hyde, who had deposited the note with
the bank for collection, and that two days after MeMillan's
death, Hyde, after notice by McClure of the payment of the
note, received from the bank its certificate of deposit for the
amount due thereon, and the note, with the certificate of stock
pledged for its payment, was surrendered by Hyde to the bank,
which thus obtained possession of -the certificate.
Thereup6n the defendants in error offered in evidence the
following questions and answers contained in the deposition of
Hyde:
"Q. What conversation did you have with McClure subsequent to this (subsequent to leaving said note for collection),
with reference to that certificate (20 shares) ?
"A. He told me he had full power to transfer it at any time
on the books and apply it to the payment of the note.
"Q. What was said to you by McClure at the time of the
payment of the note, in reference to this certificate of 20
shares?
"A. I desired to purchase it, but there was an understand-

XENIA BANK v. STEIVART.
Opinion of the Court.

iug that I should hold the certificate of deposit until an administrator was appointed, when an arrangement might be made
for its purchase.
WQ.
What statement did McClure make to you at the time
of the payment of the note, as to who was making payment?
"-A. He said the"payment was made from money which was
sent there by McM illan. He told me the money was left there
the Wednesday previous.
"Q. Was any statement made to you by Mc0lure, with
reference to this certificate of stock after McMilan's death, in
reference to Mrs. McMillan; if so, what?
"A. He told me after M Millan's death that she preferred
to keep the stock.

"Q. How long after the talk on Wednesday after McMillan's
death till the other talk in which McOlure told you Mrs. McMillan wished to keep the stock?
"A. Two months, I presume.
"Q. Where did the latter take place?
"A. In-the bank; they all took place there."
The ruling of the court in allowing these questions and answers to be read to the jury, notwithstanding the objection of
the plaintiff in error, is now assigned for error. Its contention
is, that it furnished the money to pay McMillan's note for
$2,600, held by Hyde, for which the certificate for twventy shares
was pledged, and that it thereby, on the delivery of the certificate to it by Hyde, became entitled to the po.sesgion thereof
as security for the note: The defendants In error insist that
the money to take up the not&held byr Hyde was paid by their
intestate, M clillan.
The plaintiff im error complains that upon this issue the
stafements of McClure, its cashier, made several days after the
alleged payment of the note by McMillaii, were admitted to
show such payment, and insists that this -vas error, on the
ground that the declarations of an agent concerning a past
transaction cannot.be given in evidence to bind his principal.

OCTOBER TERM3,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

The rule upon this subject has been thus laid down by this
court :
"Whatever an agent does or says in reference to the business in which he is at the time employed and within the scope
of his authority, is done or said by the principal, and may be
proved as if the evidence applied personally to the principal."
Anw'ican Far Co. v. United States, 2 Pet. 358.
It is because the declaratioh of an agent is a verbal act
and part of the res gestce that it is admissible, and whenever
what he did is admitted in evidence, then it is competent to
prove what he said about the act while he was doing it.
JXl elanics' .?ank of Alexandriav. Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat.
326, 336 ; Cliquot's champagne, 3 Wall. 114; Cooley v. 2Torton,
Cush. 93; Ilannay v. Stewart, 6 Watts, 487; Gartk v. 17owaOvd, 8 Bing. 451.
Applying these principles, we think the testimony objected
to was properly admitted. The declarations of McClure were
made, so the record states, at the time that he paid Hyde the
amount of the note. They were, therefore, clearly a part of
the transaction. For Hyde, being the holder of the certificate
of stock as collateral security for the note, was entitled to know
by whom the payment of the note was made, so as to decide
whether to return the certificate to McMillan or turn it over to
tl bank, or, if it was left with the bank, in what capacity the
bank took it, whether for its own security, or as agent for
1fc.fillan. The declarations of McClure were made to Hyde
in explanation of the payment of the money to him, and were,
therefore, admissible as a part of the act of payment.
The declarations of McClure in reference to the purchase by
Hyde of the twenty shares of stock were made at the same
time, and as they were offered as tending to show by whom
the money to pay the McMillan note was furnished, they were
also a part of the transaction, and on that ground adrhissible.
The plaintiff in error contends that a conversation which
took place two months after the payment of the note, between
McClure and Hyde, in reference to the purchase by the latter
of the twenty shares of stock was wrongly received -in evidence.

XENIA BANK v. STEWART.
Opinion of the Cout.
But it plainly appears from the record that this second conversation -was part of a, treaty bepween McClure and Hyde,
commenced on the Wednesday after McMillan's death, when
the M oMillan note was paid,'Ior the purchase of the twentyshares of stock by Hyde. It was, bffered to show by the declarations of its cashier, that the bank did not when the declarations were made claim any 'general or special property in the
stqock, but in effect admitted it to be the property of the estate
of McMillan.
The declarations..made by.an officer or agent of a corporation, in-response to timely inquiries, properly addressed to him
and relating to matters undei his charge, in respect to which
he is authorized in the usual course of business to give information, may be given in evidence against the corporation.'
Bank of .Eonroe v. Field, 2 Hill, 445; . oGenness v. Adriatic
Fills, 116 Mass. !,7 ; forse v .qonn cticut River Railroad Co.,
6 Gray, 450 ; Abbot Trial Evidence, 44.
As cashier, McClure hadcharge of all the money, securities
and valuable papers of the.bankg Wild v. Bank qf Passa-maquoddy, 3 Mason, 505 ; .Frank'in Bank v. StewaVd, 37- Maine,
519. It was .his duty to surrender securities pledged for the
loans of the bank upon paymen of the loans. Fleckner v.
United States Bank, 8 Wheat. 338,360. And, although he
might not be authorized to dispote of the securities of the bank
without the order of the direetors,' yetit -was.within the scope
of his general authority as cashier. to receive offers for their
purchase, and to 'state whether or xrot the bank owned securities which a customer wanted to buy-. This naturally fell
within his duty as the executive officer of the bank and the
custodian of its assets. His statem ent to a person who was in
treaty to purchase, that the banlk.was not the owner of a certain security in his manual possession as cashier, was clearly
within the line of his duty, and was, therefore, binding on the
bank. We think there was no.error in admitting in evidence
the declarations of McClure.
The bill of exceptions further states that the plaintiffs below
offered in evidence the following letter:,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"A.

Capital, $120,000. F. A. MCCLURE, Cas/h
(Cut of Bank Building.)

IrIILING, Prest.

"FIRST IN TIONAL BANK,

XENA,0., Oct. 16th, 1876.
"D. MOMILLAN, Esq.
"DEAR SIR: Mr. Me's letter of 14th to hand, and in reply I
enclose the Marshall note cancelled. I have the ctf. in my
possession, and have some prospect for raising some money on
same. Will write again soon; nothing new; all well.

Yours truly,

F. A. McCLUmE."

The court allowed the letter to go to the jury in spite of the
objection of the plaintiff in error. The defendants in error
insisted that the letter was admissible because there was evidence, introduced by the plaintiff in error, tending to prove
that in August preceding McMillan's death one Marshall held
a note against him, "secured by ten shares of said stock, and
that McMillan procured tl'3 surrender of the 9tock, giving
mortgage security in lieu thereof, he desiring to use said stock
in bank."
The plaintiff in error assigns for error the admission of the
letter in evidence, on the ground that it was but a fragment of
a correspondence; that there was nothing to show that it was
written for the bank; and that it was only a letter from
McClure, and not from him as cashier.
But there is nothing in the record to indicate that there
were any other letters that bad passed between the parties.
The face of the letter shows that it had reference to the
Marshall note, and very probably to the ten shares of stock
which had been pledged by McMillan as security therefor, and
of which he had procured the surrender so that he might use it
in bank. The letter was written upon the paper of the bank
and by the person shown to be its cashier, and it appeiars with
reasonable certainty to have referred to the business of the
bank. The court was therefore right in not excluding it from
the jury.
It further appears by the bill of exceptions that the plaintiff
in error offered evidence to prove that, for more than a year

XEIIA BANK vd STEWART.

' '

Opinion of the Court.

previous to his death; ' MMillan had been hopelessly insolvent," and: had experieficed" 1great difficulty in procuring meahs
to meet his interest obligations." The defendants in error Objected to this evidence, it'"was ruled oit, and the plaintiff in
error now assigns its exclusion as error..
The purpose of the evidence was to prove that Mcfillan
had not furnished the money to pay his'note for $2,600 held
by Hyde. The evidence offbred "was inadmissible because
too remote and conjectural. The -law requires an open and
visible connection between the principal and evidentiary facts
and the deductions from them, and does not permit a decision
to be made On remote inferences. Tnited SOtes v. Ross, 92 U.
S. 281 ; Carter v. Pryyke, 1 Peake, 95 ; Hollingam v. Head, 4
C. B. N. S. 388; Jackso v. Sm.ith, 7 Cowen, 717; Baird v.
Gillett, 47 X. Y. 186; Thompson- v. Bowie, 4 Wall. 463. In
the case last cited, where the 'issue Was whether certain
promissory notes dated on a particular'day wer6 given for
money lost at play, testimony was offered to prove that th6
party giving the notes was on the day of their date intoxicated,
and that when intoxicated he had a propensity to game.' It
was held that the evidence was properly excluded.
The evidence offered 'in the present case was too weak and
vague to contribute to an intelligent decision by the jury of the
question in issue, namely, whether McMillan had paid his note.
It is common for both solvent and insolvent men to pay some of
their debts and to leave some unpaid. Proof of ihe insolvency
of a debtor is no more competent to show non-payment, than'
proof of his solvency is competent to show the payment of his
debts. These two kinds of proof stand on the same footing.
The latter kind has been held to be incompetent.' Hilton v.
Scarborough, 5 Gray, 422. The insolvency and pecuniary embarrassment of a person may be shown as evidence thaf he
has not paid all his debts; but they do not tend to show that
he has not paid a particular debt. We think the evidebiie of
the insolvebeCy of McMillan was properly excluded.
It further appeared that the plaintiff in error, having given
evidence tending to show that it had not received'from ]McMillan the money to .pay his note for $2,600 held by Hyde, but

QOCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
that it had paid the hote odt of its own funds, called as a wit,
ness one William McGirvey,-who, having testified that during
the whole of the year 1876 he was the teller of the defendant
bank, and that its books showed no payment of his note by
M cMillan, was asked by counsel for the plantiff in error the
following question:"Had you any information, from any source, of any money
being received at the bank on or about .the Wednesday preceding M Millan's death from IMcoMillan ?" Having put the"question, counsel for the plaintiff in error stated that they expected
the witness to answer it in the negative.
The codrt excluded the question, and its action is assigned
for error.
The inadmissibility of both the question and the answer,
had the answer been given, is obvious. The question called
for the information which from any source might be in the
possession of the witness, and not for his knowledge. An
answer detailing the hearsay .statements of others, whether
verbal or in writing, made at any time or place, would have
been responsive. The objection to the question was well taken,
and the court was right in excluding it.
Upon the authorities already cited a negative answer to the
question would have been too vague and conjectural to be admitted as evidence. It did not appear but that many payments
of money might have been made to the bank without the
knowledge of the witness. It was not shown what his duties
were, whether to receive or pay out money; it was not shown
that he was in the bank on or about the Wednesday when the
payment by McMillan was alleged to have been made; it was
not shown that if the payment had been made by draft or certificate of deposit sent -to the bank in a letter, it would have
passed through his hand§J On the simple statement that he
was teller andengaged in the discharge of his duties as such
during the year 1876, we think that his answer that he had no
information of any payment made by McMillan does not rise
to the dignity of evidence, and was properly excluded.
The plaintiff in error contends, lastly, that upon-the pleadings
and notwithstanding the verdict it was entitled to judgment.

UNITED STATES v. MINOR.
Syllabus.

The ground of 'this contention is, that as it was admitted in the
pleadings that McMillan was indebted to the bank at the time
of his deat1h more than the value of his stock, and as the stock
was in the- possession of the bank, indorsed by McMillan in
blank, the law would make the application of its value to the
payment of the indebtedness.
The aLssignment of error is based on § 5328 of the Revised
Statutes of Ohio, of 1880, which provides that "when upon the
statements in the pleadings one party is entitled by law to
judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the
court, though a verdict has been found against such'party."
No motion for juldgment, notwithstanding the verdict, appears to have been made in the Circuit Court. If this court
could now consider this assignment of error, we think it does
not furnish a ground for the reversal of the judgment.
It was settled by the verdict of that jury that the plaintiff
in error did not hold the stock of. McMillan as security for his
indebtedness. The contention of the plaintiff in error, therefore, comes to -this, that a creditor, who has possession of the
property of his debtor, as his agent or trustee, or bailee, may,
without reducing his debt to judgment, and without.the process or order of any court, and without the consent and against
the will of the debtor, sell or otherwise dispose of the property
and apply its proceeds to the payment- of his debt. We do not
thiik the law gives a creditor any such right.
ATdgment -Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MIOR.
.APPEAL FROM TH

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF, CALIFORNIA.

Submitted:Janury 26, 188.-Decided March 80, -188.

The. United States has the same remedy in a court of equity to set aside or annul a patent for land. on the ground of fraud in procuring its issue, which.

an individual would have in regard to his own deed procured under similar
circumstances.'

