CASES ADJUDGED
nf

TH

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
THOMPSON, Trustee, & Others v. BOISSELIER &
Another.

SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TEE UMTE) STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

MoNAB & HARLAN: MANUFACTURING COMPANY
& Another v. THOMPSON, Trustee, & Others.
EATON & Others v. SAM .
APPEALS FROX- THE CIRCI

COURT OF THE UNTEb STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Arghted March 10, 1885.-Decided March 80, 1885.
The third claim of reissued letters patent No. 978, granted to William S. Car,
June 12, 1860, for "improvements in water.closets," (the original patent
having been granted to him August 5,1856, and,.as reissued, extended July.
23, 1870, for seven years from August 5, 1870,) namely, "In a valve for"
water-closets, a cup-leather for controlling the motion of said valve'in closing gradually, substantially as specified; said cup-leather moving freely
in one direction, and c osing against the containing cylinder in the other
direction:, and the leakage of water in said cylintderallowingthe movement
-VOL. cxiv-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
of said cup-leather, as set forth,". construed, and the operationof the device
explained.
The state of the art, as to prior devices, and the construction and operation of
the defendants' device, set forth.
In view of the state of the art : Held, That, for the purpose of securing the
free passage of water in one direction, and preventing its escape in the other
direction otherwise than gradually, the defendants had used nothing which
they did not have a right to use, and had not appropriated any patentable0
invention wjhich Carr had a right to cover, as against the defendants' structure, by the third claim of his reissue.
All that Carr did, if anything, was to add his form of orifice to the valve and
cup-leather of an existing pump-plunger.
The third claim of the Carr reissue involves, as an element in it, the means of
leakage set forth.
The only point of invention, if it could be dignified by that name, was the
special means of leakage shown by Carr, but which the defendants did not
use.
To be patentable, a thing must not only be new and useful, but must amount
to an invention or discovery.
Recent decisions of this court on the subject of what constitutes a patentable
invention cited and applied.
Under them, claim three of the Carr reissue must, in view of the state of the
art, either be hold not to involve a patentable invention, or, if it does, not
to have been infringed.
The first claim of letters patent No. 21,734, granted to Frederick H. Bartholomew,' October 12, 1858, for an "improved water-closet," and extended, October 2, 1872, for seven yeats from October 12, 1872, namely, "The use of a
drip-box or leak-chamber, arranged above the closet, and below and around
the supply-cock, substantially as described," must, in view of the state of
the art, be limited to a drip-box arranged above or on top of the closet, and
is not infringed by a structure in which the drip-box is cast on the side of
the trunk, near the top, but below it, and not on top of if.

These are suits in equity, to restrain infringements of a
patent. The facts which make the case are stated in the olinion of the court.
_Y'. Edmund TFetwre and Mr'. George V. Frelingkuysen
for Thompson, Trustee, and others.
36r. Iewellyn -Deane for Boisselier and Another, for the
MoNab & Haxlan Manufacturing Company and for Eaton and
others.
MP. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
These axe four suits in equity. The first one was brought

THOMPSON v. BOISSELIER.
Opinion of the Court.

in February, 1877, in'the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Missouri by Charles F. Blake, as
trustee of William S. Carr and Frederick H. Bartholomew,
against Elizabeth E. Boisselier and John C. Kupferle, for the
infringement of reissued letters patent, No. 978, granted to
William S. Carr, June 12, 1860, for "improvements in waterclosets," the original patent having been granted tQ him August.
5, 1856, and, as reissued, extended, July 23, 1870, for seven
years from August 5, 187X.
The second suit was brought in February, 1879, in the same
court, by Charles F Blake, as trustee of Sarah Bartholomew,
against the same defendants, for the infringement of letters
patent, No. 21,734, granted to Frederick H. Bartholomew, October 12, 1858, for an "improved water-closet," and extended,
October 2, 1872, for seven years from October 12, 1872.
The third and fourth suits were brought in July, 1879, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, by Charles F Blake, as trustee, &c., and William
S. Carr and Sarah M. Bartholomew-one against the McNab
& Harlan 'M anufacturing Company and John Harlan, and
the other against John Eaton and others-each for the infrinkement of the said Carr patent, as reissued and extended,
and of the said Bartholomew patent, as extended.
In each of the two suits in. Missouri a decree was made in
May, 1880, adjudging that the patent sued on was not good and
valid in law, and dismissing the bill. In each of the two suits
in 1ew York, a decision was made in February, 1881, 19
Blatchford, 73, adjudging that the two patents were good
aTfd valid in law, and that the third claim of the Carr reissue,
and the first claim of the Bartholomew patent, had been infringed, and awarding an account of profits and damages; and
in January, 1882, a final decree was made in one suit. for
$1,200 damages and $118.74, costs, and in the other for $415
damages and $101.24 costs. The plaintiffs in interest in each
of te Missouri*suits, and the defendants in each of the New
York suits, have appealed to this court. The questions are the
same in all of the suits and arise on the same proofs.
The third claim of the Carr reisstie is the only claim of that

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

patent which is alleged to have been infringed. So much of
the specification of that reissue as relates to that claim is as
follows:

1'Fig. I is an elevation of my closet as in place for use-; Fig
2,is a plan of the cock and part of the plan of said closet; and
Fig. 3 is a vertical section of my cock made use of in letting
the water into and shutting the same off from said closet.

THOMPSON v. BOISSELIER.
Opinion of the Court.

Similar marks of reference indicate the sdne parts in all the
figures: The nature of my said invention consists in a peculiar
construction of cock, which is opened by the motion of the
seat of the water-closet, and allows but little water to run into
the pan of the closet until the weight is removed from the seat,
when the cook gradually closing of itself, allows the water
to run for a limited and regulated time, sufficient to wash out
In the drawing, a is the trunk on the upper
the basin.

end of the soil-pipe b, fitted with the pan r, on the shaft or
spindle q, and c is the basin setting on to the trunk a. These
parts, thus far, are to be of any usual or desired character ; d is
a pipe supplying water from any suitable head, and said pipe is
attached to the coupling 1, that screws on to the body e of the
cock, andf is a pipe and coupling passing water (when admitted as hereafter detailed) to the basin c, where it is to be fitted
with the deflector, as usual. The cock e, that supplies -water
to the basin, is constructed with a stem A,passing nearly or quite
air-tight through the leather washer 4, beneath the cap n, and
the lower end of said stem h is formed with a valve g, and with

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

a cylindrical parit 3, fitting water-tight, or nearly so; the opening of the washer 2, between the coupling 1 of the pipe d
and codk e,' and the sides of this cylinder 3, are formed with
notches, or a groove w. It will now be seen, that, if the stem h
be pressed down by the weight of the person acting on the seat
U, rod v, and leverp
por by any other suitable means, the valve
g, will be forced away from the washer 2, and allow a dash of
water to pass through the notch x sufficient to fill up the parts
of the cock, and then that the cylinder 3, descending and filling
the opening in the washer 2, will prevent, or nearly so, the
passage of any more water into the closet; i is a spring around
the stem k,.which acts in aid of the pressure of the water on the
valve g, to close the same, as soon as the force which opened
the said valve is removed, but, if this alone was used, the concussion would be so great as to tend to break the parts, besides
which sufficient water would not be supplied to the watercloset to cleanse the same. I, therefore, make use of the following means, which cause said valve g to close slowly and in
a regulated amount of time, thereby allowing the desired quantity of water to dash past the washer 2, at the time the notches
or opefilngs x are moving past the same. The upper part of
the cock e, is formed as a cylinder k, in which is a disk 1, attached to the stem h, and a cup-leather m, above the same; n
is a cap of the cylinder k, which is formed with a short tube 8,
passing up through a hollow projection 0, from the side of
the trunk a, and secured thereto by a nut 6. At the time the
valve g is pressed down, as before stated, the water dashes
momentarily on to the cock and fills the same, passing the cupleather m, and filling the cylinder k, and, upon the pressure on
the stem h being removed, the cup-leather expands by the slight
rise of the stem, and would retain the v~lve.,g open were the
*cylinder k water-tight, and, therefore the closing of said valve
will be regulated according to the extent of leakage provided
in said chamber k, and for this purpose the leakage at the
washer 4, around the stem 7, may in some cases be sufficient;
but I propose to use a screw 9, entered through the cap a, with
a head next the washer 4, and a part of one side of the screw
filed away, so as to adjust the amount of leakage and regulate

THOMPSON v. BOISSELIER.
Opiniob of the Court.

the time during which the water will run into the closet.
I am also aware that a given amount of water leakage has
been used to prevent a sudden motion in cocks, balances, meters,
and a variety of other instruments; therefor , I do not claim
the same, but I am not aware that a cup-leather has ever before been so fitted and applied with a valve as to allow the
water to pass the said cup-leather freely in the chamber in
which it moves, and then act, when the power is relieved from
the valve, upon the water in said chamber and gradually allow
the valve to close."
The third claim of the Carr reissue is as follows "Third. I
claim, in a valve for water-closets, a cup-leather for controlling
.the motion of said valve in closing gradually, substantially ag
specified, said cup-leather moving freely in onie direction, andclosing against the containing cylinder in the other direction,
and the leakage of water in said cylinder allowing the movement of said cup-leather, as set forth."
In the Carr afparatus, the valve is combined with a contain-.
ing 6ylinder and a cup-leather, in such manner that the valve
is caused to close slowly, because the action of the cup-leather
as a tight packing prevents the passage of water while the
valve is closing, and the valve can open rapidly, .because, as it
opens, the cup-leather does not act as a packing, but*permits the
passage of water outside of it. In the qontaining cylinder there
is a piston which haA on it centrally a cup-ldather, and is provided with a small aperture, which permits the gradual escape
of water from it, When the cylinder is filled with water, the
valve is held to its seat by a spiral spring. When the valvestem is depressed, te .valve opens rapidly, because the cup.
leather permits the water to pass freely outside of it. When
the force which depressed the valve-stem is removed, the spring
acts to shut the valve, but it shuts slowly, because the cupleather acts as a tight packing, being forced outward against
-the inner wall of the cylinder, by the pressure of the water.
Therefore, the water escapes slowly from the cylinder through
the small aperture, and the valve cannot move faster, in shutting, than it is allowed to move by the escape of the ,water
through the small aperture.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.

The apparatus alleged to infringe the two patents is the
same in all of the suits. It has a brass casting, and is thus
described by.the plaintiff's expert: "This brass .casting of the
defendants has at its lower part a cavity, whose walls partially
bound the variable chamber. This cavity is a cup-shaped piece
of brass, screwed to the bottom of the casting. A cylindrical
brass plunger enters this cavity, and the. upper end of it is
formed into a valve. This brass plunger is packed to the top
of the cavity by a cup-leather, which is secured between the
upper part of the brass cup and an internal flange on the brass
he stem of the plunger and valve is surrounded by
casting.
a coiled brhss spting, which always tends to lift the plunger
and shut the valve. The plunger has, also, a small nick or
groove cut in its periphery, and extending from the top to the
bottom of the plunger. When this contrivance is ready for
operation,'all parts of the cavity in the brass casting, including
the variable chamber; are filled with water, and the valve is
held on its seat by the spiral spring, the plunger then being in
its highest position. When it is desired to open the valve,
force is applied to depress the valve-stem; this force compresses the spring, depresses the -plunger, and, opens the valve
quickly, owing to the fact that the water can escape rapidly
from the variable chamber, such rapid escape being due to the
operation of the cup-leather, which now cease to hug the
plunger and acts as a valve, permitting the water to escape
freely from the variable chamber. When the force which was
applied to depress the stem and open the valve is removed, then
the spring strives to shut the valve and elevate the plunger,
and, as soon as it commences to elevate th'e plunger, the pressure of water causes the cup-leather to hug the plunger tightly,
so that it ceases to act as a valve, and becomes a tight packing.
As soon as this occurs, water can only enter the chamber
through the small groove in the periphery of the plunger, and
the valve can shut no faster than this small flow of water permits it to shut."
It is shown by the evidence that cup-leathers had been used
in the central valves of the plungers of pumps, the cup-leather
contracting on the down stroke and allowing the water to

THOMPSON v. BOISSELIER.
Opinion of the Court.

pass by, and spreading out on the up stroke and raising the
water; and that it was not new to employ a variable chamber
to effect, by the.gradual escape of water from it, the slow .and
gradual closing of a valve.
In George Hulme's English patent, No. 8,971, of November,
1841, is shown a device for "keeping a valve open for any required length of time for the supply of water to the basins of
water-closets generally." The specification says: " To regulate the length of time that the valve F may be kept open for
the flow of water from the reservoir to the basin of the closet,
after the pan or valve has closed, the barrel AA is furnished
with the openings NN, communicating from the under to the
upper side of the bucket D, and fitted with a cock 0. Now,
by turning the cock 0 in such a position that the water-way
through the cock 0 will be diminished, more time will be required for the bucket to displace the contents of the barrelI
and vke versa." The bucket D does not have a cup-leather,
but has a central valve E to allow the water to pass.
The defendants have substantially the Hulme construction,
using a cup-leather centrally, instead of, the Hulme central
valve. A central valve being old, and a cup-leather being old,
and a central valve and a cup leather combined being old, and a
plunger with a central valve and ameaus of regulating the escape
of the water from above it being old; and the device for the
escape of the water, used by the defendants, being the same as
in Hulme, it must be held that, for the purpose of securing the
free passage of water in one direction and preventing its escape
in the other direction otherwise than gradually, the defendants
have used nothing which they did not have a right to use, and
have not appropriated any patentable invention which Carr
had a right to cover, as against the defendants' structure, by
the third claim of his reissue. If Carr had made the defendants' form of structure when he made his own, he would not,
in view of the state- of the art, have made anything having
patentable novelty in it; and, therefore, what he has claimed
in claim three of his reissue has no patentable feature which
the defendants' form of structure infringes. The action of the
cup-leather in Carr's structure and in the defendants', to admit

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

'the -free passage of the water while the valv is moving in one
direction, and to prevent such passage while the valve is moving in the Qther direction, is due to the flexibility of the leather,
and to the pressure of the water on its different sides alternately, and to its position with reference to the wall of the
chamber, and is the same as in the old central valve of a pumpplunger which was furnished with a cup-leather. The effect
resulting from allowing the water, which cannot return through
the passage by which it entered, to escape by a small orifice
and gradually, and thus cause a gradual movement in a valve
attached to,the central stem, is due to the small orifice. All that
Carr did, if 'anything, was to add his forX of orifice to the valve
and cup-leather of the pump-plunger. But the idea of having
openings extending from one side to the other of a bucket,
and thus regulating the closing of a water-valve by the slow
escape of the water from the upper side of the bucket, through
such openings, was fully exhibited in the apparatus of Hulme.
Claim three of Carr's reissue 'speaks of the cup-leather as
"moving freely in one direction and closing against the containing cylinder in the other direction." This action existed in the
cup-leather of the old pump-plunger. The claim also says,
"the leakage of water in said cylinder allowing the movement
of said cup-leather, as set forth." This means, that the greater
or less extent of the leakage allows a faster or slower movement of the cup-leather, and a faster or slower closing of the
vave. The claim involves, therefore, as an element in it, the
means of leakage set forth. It says that the use of the cupleather is "for controlling the motion 6f said valve in closing
But it is the gradual
gradually, substantially as specified.'
escape of the 'water through the small orifice which controls
the motion of the valve. The cup-leather does not control
such motion. The only iction of the cup-leather is the same
which it had in the old pump-plunger-to hold up a column of
water and act as a packing to prevent the return passage of
the water.. In this. condition of things, it would seem that the
only point of invention, if it could be dignified by that name,
was the special means of leakage shown by Carr, of having a
screw through the cap, with part of the screw filed away; and

THOMPSON v. BOISSELIER.

11

Opinion of the Court.
which is not used by the defendants, who/use the same means
of leakage as EHulme did.
The provision of the Constitution, Art. 1, sec. 8, subdivisibn 8,
is, that the Congress shall have power "to promote the progress
of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to
authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective
writings and discoveries." The beneficiary must be an inventor
and he must have made a discovery. The statute has always
carried out this idea. Under the Act of July 4, 1836, 5 Stat.
119, ยง 6, in force when these patents were granted, the patentee
was required to be a person who had "discovered or invented"
a "new and useful art, machine, manufacture or composition of
matter," or a "new and useful improvement in any art, maIn the
chine, manufacture, or composition of 'matter."
Act of July 8, 1870, 16 Stat. S0], ยง 24,. the patentee was
required to be a person who had "invented or discovered
any new and useful art, machine, manufacture or coiltposition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof ;" and that-language is 'reproduced in-ยง 4886 Rev. Stat.
So, it is not enough that a thing shall be new, in th, sense
that in the shape or form in which it is produced it shall not
have been before known, and that it shall be useful,-but it must,
under the Constitution and the statute, amount to an invention
or discovery.
To refer only to soine more recent cases, adjudged since these
suits were decided below, this principle was applied in 'intom
v. Hamilton, 104- U. S. 485, where, a cupola-furnace being old,
and a cinder-notch being old, and the use of a cinder-notch to
draw off cinders from a'oblast-furnace being old, and the cindernotch, in drawing off the cinder from a cupola-furnace, performing the same function as in the blast-furnace, it was held
that the application of the cinder-notch to the cupola-furnace
would occur to any practical man, and that there was nothing
patentable in such application.
In Hall v. .facnele, 107 U. S. 90, a cored: conical bolt, in -a
safe, with a screw-thread on it, having existed before, and also
a solid cofiical bolt, it was held to be no invention to add the
screw-thread to the solid conical bolt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

In Atlantic TForks v. Brady,107 U. S. 192,2 00, it was said, that
it is not the object of the patent laws to grant a monopoly for
every trifling device which would naturally and spontaneously
oceur to any skilled mechanic or operator, in the ordinary progress of manufactures;. and this doctrine was applied in Slawson
v. GrandStreet RailroadCo., 107 U. S. 649 ; in Zing v. Gallun,
109 U. S. 99; in Double-Pointed Tack 'Co. v. Two Rivers
.Manmqfacturing Co., 109 U. S. 117; in Esty v. Burdett, 109 U.
S. 633; in Bussey v. Excelsior .M-anufacturingCo., 110 U. S.
131; in PennsylvaniaRailroad Co. v. Locomotive Truck Co.,
10 U. S. 490; in Phillipsv. Detroit, 111 U. S. 604; in -Morris
v. 3cMilin, 112 U. S. 244; and in -Hollister v. Benedict
.anufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 59.
In the case last cited the thing claimed was new, in the sense
that it had not been anticipated by any previous invention, and
it was shown to have superior utility, yet it was held not to be
such an improvement as was entitled to' be regarded, in the
patent law, as an invention. The claim was, "A stamp, the
body of which is made of paper or other material, and having
a removable slip of metal or other material, displaying thereon
a serial number, or other specific identifying mark, corresponding with a similar mark upon the stub, and so attached that
the removal of such slip must mutilate or destroy the stamp."
The part designed to become a stub when the stamp proper
was separated therefrom, and displaying a serial number, was
well known; and so was the constituent part of the stamp
proper designed to be permanently attached to a barrel. The
third element, namely, a constituent part of the stamp proper
displaying the same identifying serial number as the stub,
which part, after the stamp proper had been affixed to the
barrel, bore such relation to the permanent part, that it could
be removed therefrom so as to retain its, own integrity, but to
mutilate, and thereby cancel, the stamp, by its removal, was
not new, so far as the contents of such constituent part were
identical with those on the stub. But the question turned on
that feature of the third element whereby a removable part of
the stamp proper, the contents of- which identified the stamp
with the stub after the stamp had been attached, could be so re-

THOMPSON v. BOISSELIER.
Opinion of the Court.

moved as to retain its own integrity, but mutilate, and thereby
cancel, the stamp, by its removal. This was held not to be
a patentable invention; and "not to spring from that intuitive
faculty of the mind put forth in the search for new results, or
new methods, creating what had not before existed, or bringing
to light what lay hidden from vision;" but to be only "the display of the expected skill of the calling," and- involving "only
the exercise of the ordinary faculties of reasoning upon the materials supplied by a special knowledge, and the facility of
manipulation which results from its habitual and intelligent
practice;" and to be "in no sense the creative work of that
inventive faculty which it is the purpose of the Constitution
and patent laws to encourage and reward.'!
On these principles claim 3 of the Garr-reissue must, in view
of the state of the ar, either be held not to involve a patentable
invention, or if it does, not to have been infringed.
The specification of -the Bartholomew patent says: " The
nature of my invention consists in providing for water-closets a
cistern, or drip- -orleak-chamber, arranged upon the top of or
over the trunk of a closet, And placing a supply-cook within or
above- said drip-box .or cistern, so, that' any waste or leak or
drip from the cock shall 'be conducted in'to the tr"mk, so as to
Fig. 1 is a proskeeping of the floor dry. . .
insure the

pective view of a pin-closet, showing my drip-box arianged
upon the top plate o the Ploset, and the cockl-for supplying
water to the same secured to thQ closewiihin-the drip-box.
The general form of the'closet is such as-is in common

use. Upon the cover .1, I cast -a box, incosu(e or cistern, E,
about one inch high (m6re or less), and broad enough to admit
of placing the 'A' coclL(I use a valve-cock) within the cistern,
and (where it is practicable) so as also to receive the drip that
may escape from the 'joint at the arm of the basin, called the
'putty-joint.' I screw the dock into the, cover of the closet,
and make a hol-within the drip-box, or in the bottom of the
cock, to admit th6 leak to fall into the trunk,'-P, and not on to
the floor." The first claim of thepatent, which is the only one
-alleged to have been infringed, reads thus: "First. I claim'the
use of a drip-box or leak-chamber, arranged above the closet,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and below and around the supply-cock, substantially as described."
The defendants' structure has a trunk, and a supply cock,
and a drip-box arranged below and around the supply cock,,
but the drip-box is cast on the side of the trunk, near the top,
but below it, and not on top of it. The drip goesinto the dripbox, and thence into the trunk and the soil-pipe. The following devices are shown :to have been old,: A drip-cup or dripbox; a pipe to convey away drippings, in machinery, from a
drip-box arranged in connection with a cock; a drip-cup applied
to the valve of a water-closet, the leakage from the valve falling into a aucer, and thence finding its way, thrqugh a hole,
into the inside of the trunk; a valve on the floor at the foot of
the trunk; a valve attached to the trunk and below its top; a
valve above its top; a valve with a drip-pan conducting the
drip into the soil-pipe at the foot of the trunk; a valve on top
of the trunk, and a provision, by means of a hollow arm, to
condAct the drip into the trunk: In view of this state of the
art, the claim must be limited, as defined by its language and
that of the specification, to a drip-box "arranged upon the top
of or over the trunk "--" arranged upon the top-plate "-cast
"upon the cover"-" arranged above the closet." The limitation
imposed by the patentee must be presumed to have been made
with good reason, and, even if there .was anything patentable
in the claim as it reads, it cannot, in view of the state of* the
art, be extended to cover any structure except one which has a
drip-box arranged above or on top of the closet, and, therefore,.
has not been infringed.
From these considerations it results, that
The dec'tees in tMe .fissouri suits must be affirmed; and those
in the .New York suits must be reversed, with directions to
dismiss the bills, witk dosts.

