VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Allen v. BaltimoreA Ohio Railroad Company.

ALLEN, Auditor, & Another v. BALTIMORE &' OHIO
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES IOR THE
'WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

The general questions arising-and argued in this case are fully discussed and
decided in the case of Poindexterv. Grcenhow, ante, 270.
The remedy by injunction to prevent the collection of taxes by distraint
upon the rolling-stock, machinery, cars and engines, and other property of
railroad corporations, after a tender of payment in tax-receivable coupons.
is sanctioned by repeated decisions of this court, and has become common
and unquestioned practice, in.similar cases, where exemptions have been
claimed in virtue of the Constitution of the United States; the ground of
the jurisdiction being that there is no adequate remedy at law.

r-.F S. Blair,Attorney-General of the State of Virginia,
and -. r. 1iclaird T. .2erriekfor appellants.
-r.John -. Cowen and -r. Hugh TF. Shefey for appellee.
[.Wr. William Z. PoyaZl filed a brief for same. M'. Daniel H
6Tamberlain and Yr. William B. Hornblower also filed a
brief for same.]
MRi. JlUSnE MATHEwS delivered the opinion of the'court.
This is a bill in equity fied by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad C6mpany, a corporation created by the laws 6f Markland,
and a citizen of tha' State, against the appellants, who were
defendants below, of -whom Allen-is Au1ditor of Public.Accounts; Revely, Treasurer. of the State of Virginia, and Haniliton, Treasurer of Augusta County, in that State, and all citizens of Virginia.
-The complairant is the lessee in possession of Certain railway
lines- in Virginia-the Winchester- and Potomac, the Winchester and Strasburg; and the Strasburg and Harrisonburg
Railroads-and also operates a railroad belonging to the Valley
Railroad Company in that State.
It is alleged in the bill that, "by the 20th and 21st sections
of an act of the Geineral Assembly of Virginia, approved on

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion in Allen v.Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company.

the 22d day of April, 1882, and entitled ' An Act for the assessment of taxes on persons, property, income, and licenses, and
imposing taxes thereon for the support of the government and
free schools and to pay the interest on the public debt,' provision was made for the assessment and taxation of the railroads within the State, the board of public works, acting upon
the reports of the officers of the railroad companies, and upon
the best and most reliable information that could be procured,
being authorized and required to ascertain and assess the
value of the real and personal property of such companies for
taxation at the rate of forty cents on every hundred dollars of
the estimated value thereof; and said act further provides that
it shall be the duty of every railroad company so assessed to
pay into the- treasury of the State, within sixty days after
receipt of notice of such assessment, the tax imposed by law;
and a company failing to pay the tax assessed upon its property
shall be immediately assessed under the direction of the auditor
of public accounts, by any person appointed by him for the
purpose, rating their real estate'and rolling-stock at $20,000
per mile, and a tax thereon levied of forty cents on the $100.00
of such fixed value; and the amount so assessed shall be collected by any treasurer to whom the auditor may deliver the
assessment, who is authorized to distrain and sell any personal
property of such company for the amount of such taxes."
It is further alleged, that on November 22, 1882, the
board
of public works assessed said railroads for taxation at the rate
of $15,000 per mile, of which notice was given to the complainant, on January 17, 1883, as the party liable by law for
the payment of the taxes assessed upon them; that on March
16, 1884, within sixty days thereafter, the complainant obtained from the auditor of public accounts warrants to pay into
the treasury the several amounts charged as to each of said railroads, which the treasurer of the Commonwealth, by indorsement thereon, required to be paid into a specified bank in the
City of Richmond, that being the only mode recognized by
law for making such payments; that, at that time, the complainant, being the owner and holder of the requisite amount
of coupons for interest cut from bonds of the State of Virginia,

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company.

issued under the act of March 20, 1871, entitled "An Act to
provide for the funding and payment of the public debt," and
receivable by virtue thereof in payment of taxes, tendered
the same, with coin, sufficient exactly to make the. required
amounts, to the said bank in Richmond, in discharge of said
warrants; that said coupons were refused, and the same having
been set apart, the complainant brings the same into court,
subject to its order in payment of said taxes; that similar tenders were made to the auditor of public accounts, and to the
treasurer of State, on the same day, each of whom refused to
receive- the same; that thereupon the defendant, Allen, the
auditor of public accounts, proceeded t6 assess the said railroads upon their real estate, not having any rolling-stock, at
$20,000 per mile, as being in default for non-payment of the
taxes assessed by the board of public works; and placed copies
of said assessment in the hands of the defendant, Hamilton, as
treasurer of Augusta County, for collection, in pursuance of
which he levied upon certain cars and locomotives belonging
to the complainant, used in operating said railroads, for part of
said taxes, and threatens to make further levies upon other
cars and engines, to be sold for payment of said taxes, so assessed by the auditor of public accounts.
The bill prays for an injunction on the several grounds of
irreparable damage; that the acts complained of prevent the
proper exercise by the complainant of its franchise, involving
a, public duty, of operating the railroads of which it is lessee5
and in possession; to avoid multiplicity of suits; the want of
adequate remedies at law.; to remove the &loud upon the title
to the railroad property, occasioned by tle fact that assessed
taxes are a lien thereon; and because it is necessary to protect
the complainant in the immunity to which it is entitled, by
virtue of the contract with the State of Virginia, secured
against State laws impairing its obligation by the Constitution
of the United States.
It is admitted by the parties in the record- that the coupons
tendered are genuine, though not verified as required 'by the
act of January 14, 1882. It is also admitted, in like manner,
that if the property of the complainant levied on should be

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion in Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company.

sold "great sacrifice and loss must result therefrom; and that
the withdrawal from complainant's use of the amount of
rolling-stock and machinery levied on, and proposed to be sold as
aforesaid, will cause serious and prolonged embarrassment to
complainant's business; that much delay must accrue before
such rolling-stock and machinery, if sold, can be replaced, and
that it will be difficult, if not impracticable, to ascertain and
estimate, with even proximate certainty, the losses and damages which would result to complainant from such sale; so
that, although the estate of said J. Ed. Hamilton should be sufficient to meet any verdict for damages, in case the sale should
be adjudged to have been illegal, the, pecuniary value of the
complainant's losses and damages could not be properly and
adequately ascertained and fixed by the verdict of a jury."
There was a final decree in favor of the complainant for a
perpetual injunction, as prayed for, and the case is brought
here by appeal by the ;efendants.
The general questions arising and argued in this and other
cases involving them are fully discussed in the opinion in the
case of Poindexter v. Greenhow. The conclusions reached in
that judgment apply to the present appeal, and require that
the decree of the Circuit Court'should be affirmed.
It is deemed proper to add a few observations on the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, in such cases, in
equity, to grant relief by injunction.
The circumstances of this case bring it, so far as that remedy
is in question, fully within the 'principle firmly established in
this court by the decision in Osborn v. The United States Bank,
9 Wheat. 739, and within the terms of the rule as declared in
Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, quoted in the case
of Poindexter v. Greenhow.
The jurisdiction was exercised with energy in behalf of a
stockholder in a banking corporation in Dodge v. Troolsey, 18
How. 331, where the refusal of the directors of the company
to resist the collection of an unconstitutional tax was made the
ground of interposition in behalf of a stockholder as a breach
of trust.
In Board of Liquidation v. -c Comb,'92 U. S. 531, 541, it is

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company.

said in the opinion of the court, speaking on the question of
remedies:
"On this branch.of the subject, the numerous and well-considered cases heretofore decided by this court leave little to be
said. The objections to proceeding against State officers by
mandamus or injunction are: first, that it is, in effect, proceeding against the State itself; and, secondly, that it interferes with the official discretion vested in the, officers. It is
conceded that neither of these things can be done. A State,
without its consent, cannot be sued by'an individual; and a
court cannot substitute its own discretion for that of executive
officers in matters belonging to the proper jurisdiction of the
latter: But it has been well settled that, when a plain official
duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed,
and performance is refused, any person who will sustain personal injury by such refusal may have a mandamus to compel
its performance; and when such duty is threatened to be violated by some positive official act, any person who will sustain
personal injury thereby, for which adequate compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to prevent it. In
such cases, the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other. In either case, if the officer
plead the authority of an unconstitutional law for the nonperformance or violation of his duty, it will not prevent the
issuing of the writ. An unconstitutional law will be treated
by the courts as null and void." And the opinion cites Osborn
v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. '39, at page 859, and
-Davisv. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, at page 220. The same principle
was applied in the State RailroadTax Cases, 92 U. S: 575. Ii
the opinion of the court it is said (p. 615): "In the exanna
tion which we have made of these cases, we do not find any oil
the matters complained of to come within the rule which we'
have laid down as justifying the interposition of a court of
equity. There is no fraud proved, if alleged. There is no
violation of the Constitution, either in the statute or in"its administration, by the board of equalization. No property is
taxed that is not legally liable to taxation; nor is the rule of
uniformity prescribed by the Constitution violated." If the

OCTOBER TERM, lSS4.
Opinion in Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company.

facts here negatived had been affirmed the converse of the rule
would have been equally applicable.
In Transportation Co. v. Parker.burg,107 U: S. 691, 69, it
was declared that a bill in equity would lie which se-ks to
have a wharfage ordinance declared void, ancl for an injunction to restrain further collections under it, and any further
interference with the right of the complainant to the. free navigation of the Ohio River, and, perhaps, as incidental to the
other relief, a demand for the return of the wharfage already
paid.
The remedy to restrain by injunction taxes levied upon railroads, in alleged violation of a contract with the State, was
administered in Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, and in
numerous other similar cases, where it has been denied, the
jurisdiction to grant the relief if the facts had warranted it,
has been assumed without question. And see Litchfeld v.
County of Webster, 101 U. S. 773.
In the case of national banks, the assessment and collection
of taxes illegally assessed under the authority of State laws, in
violation of acts of Congress, are habitually restrained by the
preventive remedy of injunction; and the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States in those cases is regarded as in the
highest degree beneficial and necessary to prevent the agencies
of the government of the United States from being hindered
and embarrassed in the performance of their functions by State
legislation. The exercise of that jurisdiction, and by means of
that remedy, in such cases, is to vindicate the supremacy of the
Constitution, and to maintain the integrity of the powers and
rights which it confers and secures; and that jurisdiction is
vested in the courts of the United States because the cases
embraced in it are necessarily cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Where the rights in jeopardy are those of private citizens,
and are of those classes which the Constitution of the United
States either confers or has taken under its protection, and no
adequate remedy for their enforcement is provided by the forms
and proceedings purely legal, the same necessity invokes and
justifies, in cases to which its remedies' can be applied, that

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Syllabus in Carter v. Greenhow.

jurisdiction -in equity vested by the Constitution of the United
States, and which cannot be affected by the legislation of the
States.
In the present case, the jurisdiction in equity to grant the
relief prayed for by injunction, and the propriety of its exercise, are alike indisputableThe decree of the Circuit Court is.accordiglyajflrmed.
MiR. J'USTIcE, BRADLn

Y, with whom concurred THE "CHIEF

and MR. JiSTmIC GRAY,dissented.
Their dissenting opinion will be found 2 ost, page 330, after the
opinion of the Court in MAmu v. PARsoNs.
JUSTICE, MR.JUSTICE MILLEIE

CARTER v. GREEN-OW.
IN ERROR TO TIE CIROtUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

The 16th clause of ยง 629 Rev. Stat., authorizing suits, without reference to
the sum or value in controversy or the citizenship of the parties, to be
brought in the Circuit Courts of the United States to redress the deprivation. under color of State law, of any right, privilege, or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States, in violation of ยง 1979 Rev. Stat.,
does not embrace an action of trespass on the case in which the plaintiff
seeks a recovery of damages against a tax collector in Virginia. who, hayiug rejected a tender of tax-receivable coupons, issued under the act of
March 80, 1871, seeks to collect the tax for which they were tendered by a
seizure and sale of personal property of the plaintiff.
Although the right to have such coupons received in payment of taxes is
founded on a contract with the State, and that right is protected by the
Constitution of the United States, Art. 1,See. 10, forbidding the State
to pass any laws impairing the obligation of the contract, the only mode of
redress in case of any disturbance or dispossession of property, or for other
legal rights based on such violation of the contract, is to have a judicial
determination, in a suit between individuals, of the invalidity of the law,
under color of which the wrong has been committed. No direct action for
the denial of the right secured by the contract will lie.

Xr. William L. 1oyall, Mr.1DanieZ H. Camberlain [31r.
1filliam B. Bornblower was with him on the brief], -Yfr.

