OCTOBER TER-M, 1884.
Syllabus.

1907. The holders of the equipment bonds might prefer to
hold without security their bonds payable in sixteen years,
rather than to take instead bonds secured by mortgage, payable twenty-four years later. They took no steps to obtain
such an exchange for more than eight years after the execution
of the mortgage of 1867, nor until after the institution of proceedings to foreclose the subsequent mortgage, executed by
the company in 1873, to secure the payment of a new issue of
bonds. The lien created by the latter mortgage took precedence of any claims which were not already secured by any
prior mortgage. When the whole property of the consolidated
company was sold under the decree of foreclosure of the mortgage of 1873, subject only to prior mortgages and liens,
the purchasers took the property free from all debts not so
secured.
The necessary c6nclusion is, that the property sold under the
decree bf foreclosure is not subject to any lien in favor of the
holders of the equipment bonds.
Decree reversed.

MACALESTER'S ADMINISTRATOR v. MARYLAND &
Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Argued April 15, 16, 188.-Decidcd May 4, 1FS5.

Under the statutes of Maryland of 1834, eh. 241, 1835, 'ch. 395, 1838, ch. 396,
and 1844, ch. 281, and the instruments executed pursuant to those statutes.
the tolls and revenues of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company are
mortgaged to the State of Maryland, to secure the repayment of money
lent by the State to the company, and the payment of dividends and interest on the stock subscribed for by the State ; subject, in the first place, to
the appropriation of so much of the tolls and revenues as is necessary to
keep the canal in repair, to provide the necessary supply of water, and
to pay the salaries of officers and annual expenses ; and, in the second place,
to a mortgage to trustees to secure the payment of certain bonds of the
company. And, t the suit in equity of the State and of such trustees, even

31ACALESTER v. MARYLAND.
Statement of Facts.
before the State has taken possession under its mortgages, a general creditor
of the company, who at the time of contracting his debt had notice of the
provisions of the statutes and of the mortgages, will be restrained. from
levying on money deposited by the company in a bank, and needed to meet
such necessary expenses.

This was an appeal from a decree in equity of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, restraining a judgment creditor of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company from levying upon money deposited by tha.
company in a bank in Baltimore. The case appeared by the
record to be as follows:
The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company was incorporated,
and constructed a canal from Georgetown in the District of
Columbia to Cumberland in the State of Maryland, under
statutes of Virginia and Maryland of 1824, confirmed by the
act of Congress of March 3, 1825, ch. 52. 4 Stat. 101, 793-802.
Under the statute of Maryland of 1834, ch. 241, the State of
Mfaryland lent to the company the sum of $2,000,000, to be
used in the construction of the canal; and the company, on
April 23, 1825, to secure the repayment of -that sum and interest, made to the State a mortgage of "all and singular the
lands and tenements,- capital stock, estates and securities, goods
and chattels, property and rights, now or-at any time hereafter
to be acquired, and the net tolls and revenues of the said company." No part of that loan, or of the interest accrued thereon,.
was ever paid.
Under the statute of Maryland of 1835, ch. 395, the State
subscribed and paid for 30,000 shares, and.under the statute of
1838, ch. 306, 13,750 shares, together constituting a majority of
the stock in the company; first receiving from the company, as
required by each statuite, an instrument in writing under seal, by
which the company.guaranteed to the State the payment, out
bf the profits of the work, of six per cent. yearly on the money
paid to it by the State under that statute, until the clear annual profits of the canal should be more than sufficient to dis-"
charge the sums which the company should be liable to pay
annually to the State,, and should be adequate to a dividend of
six per cent. among its stockholders, and further agreed that

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

thereafter the State should receive, upon the stock by it subscribed for, a proportional dividend upon the profits of the
work as declared from time to time. The company never paid
to the State any part of such dividends or interest.
On May 15, 1839, the company, as required by the statute of
1838, and to secure the payment to the State of interest for
three years at the yearly rate of five per cent. on stock issued
by the State under that statute to the amount of $1,375,000,
made another mortgage to the State of its lands and tenements,
property and effects, as well as of its net tolls and revenue. No
part of this interest was paid.
The statute of Maryland of 1844, ch. 281, authorized the
company to borrow money and issue its bonds to the amount
of $1,700,000, to provide means for completing its canal to
Cumberland, and contained the following provisions:
SEC. 2. "The bonds so issued as aforesaid shall appear on
the face of, the same to be preferred liens on the revenues of
said company, according to the provisions of this act, and with
the assent of the said company, as is hereinafter provided for;
the said bonds, without any preference or priority over each
other on account of date, shall be preferred liens on the revenues and tolls that may accrue to the said company from
the entire and every part of the canal and its works between
Georgetown and Cumberland, which are hereby pledged and
appropriated to the payment of the same, and the interest to
accrue thereon, in the manner hereinafter mentioned: Provided, however, that this State shall in no case be bound or
held responsible for the payment of said bonds, or the interest
thereon: And provided further, that the president and directors of the said company shall from time to time, and at all
times hereafter, have the privilege and authority to use and
apply such portion of said revenues and tolls as in their opinion
may be necessary to put and keep the said canal in good condition and repair for transportation, provide the requisite supply of water, and pay the salaries of officers and agents, and
the current expenses of the said company."
SEC. 4. "That the rights and liens of this State upon the
revenues of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company shall be

MACALESTER- v. MARYLAND.
Statement of Facts.

held and considered as waived, deferred and postponed in favor
of the bonds that may be issued under the aforegoing sections,
so as to make the said bonds, and the interest to accrue thereon,
preferred and absolute liens on said revenues, according to the
provisions of the second section of this act, until said bonds and
interest shall be fully paid."
SEc. 5. "That semi-annually in each year, as the same shall
be payable, said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company shall pay
the interest on the bonds constituting preferred liens as aforesaid, to the party or parties respectively entitled thereto, or to
their agent or agents authorized to receive the same' and as soon
as the net revenues of said company, arising from the canal
and its works between Georgetown and Cumberland as afore.said, 'shall be more than sufficient to pay the interest that may
become due and in arrear upon said bonds, with the costs of
remittance and exchange, if there be any, and such further
sum, not exceeding $5,000 annually, as may be- necessary to
pay the interest on the bonds or certificates of debt heretofore
issued by said company to the creditors of the Potomac Company, for claims adjusted under the twelfth section of the charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company; the said
company shall annually pay to the Treasurer of the Western.
Shore of this State, who shall receive the same under the responsibilities of his office, the surplus net revenues as aforesaid,
to such amount as may be necessary as an adequate sinking
fund, not exceeding the sum of $25,000 a year, on an average
of years, dating from the first day of January next after the
completion of the, canal to Cumberland; which sum or sums
shall from time to time be invested by said' treasurer, and be
accumulated by him as a sinking fund to pay the principal of
said bonds, until a sufficient afiount is so paid and accumulated
for that purpose."
S6w. 6. "That the president and directors of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company be, and they are hereby, authorized to execute any deed, mortgage or other instrument of
writing, that may hereafter be deemed necessary or expedient
to give the fullest effect to the aforegoing provisions."
SEC. 7. "That the Chesapeake and Ohio" Canal Company

COS "

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

shall execute to this State and deliver to the Treasurer of the
Western Shore of Maryland a further mortgage on the said
canal, its lands, tolls and reyenues, subject to the liens and
pledges by the aforegoing provisions of this act made, created
or authorized, as an additional security for the payment of the
loan made by this State to the said company under the act of
December session eighteen hundred and thirty-four, chapter
two hundred and forty-one, and the interest due and in arrear
and which hereafter may accrue thereon; which mortgage
shall be submitted to the Attorney-General of this State, and
be approved by him as sufficient in law."
On January 8, 1846, the company, pursuant to ยง 7 of that
statute, and as an additional security for the payment of the
$2,000,000 before lent by the State of Maryland to the company, under the statute of 1834, and interest, executed a mortgage of all its lands and tenements, its canal and appurtenances, "embracing the entire undertaking, and the tolls and
revenues that may hereafter accrue," and all its property and
rights; "subject, nevertheless, to all and singular the liens and
pledges by the provisions of the before-mentioned act of
eighteen hundred and forty-four, chapter two hundred and
eighty-one, made, created or authorized, or that have been or
may hereafter be made, created, given or granted by the said
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, or the president and
directors thereof, under or in pursuance of the provisions of
said apt, which said liens and pledges are in nowise to be
lessened; impaired or interfered with by this deed, or by anything herein contained, and subject, also, to all the other provisions of said act."
On June 5, 18418, the company executed a mortgage, reciting
the last provisions of the second section, as well as the provisions of the fourth and sixth sections of the act of 1844, and
conveying to William W. Corcoran and others, trustees, "the
revenues and tolls of the entire and every part of the canal and
its works between Georgetown and Cumberland," to secure,
after the payment of debts existing or thereafter contracted
for repairs on the canal and providing the requisite supply of
water, and for salaries and current expenses, first, the pay-

MACALESTER v. MARYLAND.
Statement of Facts.

ment of interest on the bonds issued by the company under
the act of 1844, second, the payment 6f interest to creditors of
the Potomac Company, third, the creation of a sinking fund
for the redemption of those bonds; with the further provisions
"that so long as the said canal company shall comply with
their agreement by paying all the interest upon said bonds as
the same falls due, and by providing an adequate sinking fund
in the manner specified according to the provisions of the said
act for the final redemption of the said bonds, they shall retain
the management of the canal and its works, and collect and
receive the revenues and tolls; but if they fail to comply with
these conditions from any cause except a deficienecy of revenue
arising from a failure of business without fault on the part of
said company, said fault to be made to appear by the grantees
aforesaid, then the grantees may demand and shall thereupon
receive possession, and shall appropriate the said tolls and revenues in the manner hereinbefore provided."
In 1854, Charles Macalester,.a citizen of Pennsylvania, recovered in an action in the Circuit Court of 'the United States
for the District of Maryland, upon a debt not secured by any
of the aforesaid mortgages, a judgment for $5,471.37 and
costs. In 1867, Macalester having, died, the appellant took
out letters of administration upon his estate in Maryland, and
became as such administrator plaintiff in that action, and judgment was entered for him against the company, and he in 1880
issued an attachment upon that judgment, and caused it to be
laid in the hands of a bank -in Baltimore as garnishee upon
moneys stnding to the credit of the company on the books of
the bank. Those moneys were in the possession of the bank
on deposit, and were exclusively made up of the tolls and revenues received by the company in the course of its business,
and were sufficient to. pay the judgment debt, interest and
costs, but were required to meet the necessary expenses of putting and keeping the canal in proper navigable condition, after
payment of the salaries of officers, and supplying the necessary.
quantity of water for purposes of navigation.
In 1882, Macalester's administrator having applied to the
court for a judgment of condemnation of so much. of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

moneys in the hands of the garnishee as would satisfy his
judgment debt, interest and dosts, bills in equity to restrain
further proceedings by him were filed by the State of Maryland, and by the trustees under the mortgage of 1848, setting
forth the facts above stated, and also alleging that Macalester
and his administrator "had each notice, before acquiring any
of their respective rights of action in the premises, of all the
liens, charges and duties affecting the revenues, tolls and
property of the said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company,
and were especially affected with knowledge that such portions of the revenues and tolls of said Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, as were necessary to put and keep the canal
of the said company in good condition and repair for transportation, provide the requisite supply of water, and pay the
salaries of officers and agents of the said company, were dedicated and set apart to such purposes by contract with the State
of MHaryland, and were under said contract exclusively applicable to said purposes."
The administrator filed a demurrer to each bill, which was
overruled, and a final -decree entered against him, and, upon
his motion at the same term, the court ordered nunb _pro tunv
that the two suits be consolidated, "but so that the validity,
force and effect of neither of said decrees shall be by this
order affected or impaired." H6 then appealed to this court.
.ir.
Stewart Brown [Ab. Arthur Georqe Brown was with
him on the brief] for appellant.
.Xir. Chanles J. f. Gwinn and _fr. CiarlesB. Roberts, Attorney-General of Maryland, for appellees.
:M.

JusTIcE

GRAY,after making the foregoing statement of

facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
An ordinary mortgagee of real estate, who has not taken
possession undler his mortgage, is not entitled to the rents and
profits as against the mortgagor or his attaching creditors ; and
the same rule holds good in the case of a mortgage by a railroad, canal or bridg-e corporation' of its tolls and revenues.

MACALESTER v. MARYLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

which provides a mode in which the mortgagee shall take possession, and until that mode is availed of, leaves the tolls and
revenues in the control of the mortgagor, to be disposed of as
he sees fit. Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459;
Gilman v. Illinois & 2lfississippi Telegraph Co., 91 U. S. 603;
American Bridge Co. v. Heidelbach, 94 U. S. 798.
But by the statutes of the State of Maryland, relating to
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, and the mortgages
executed pursuant to those statutes, the application of the tolls
and revenues of the canal was not left to the disposal of the
corporation.
The State of Maryland- regarding the construction and
maintenance of the canal as an object of great importance and
benefit to the public, had lent to the canal company large
sums of money, and subscribed for a majority of its stock,
and, to secure its loans and investments, had- taken from the
company mortgages upon the canal and all its tolls and revenues.
By the statute of 1844, ch. 281, the State authorized the company, in order to obtain additional means, to issue bonds
secured by mortgage to trustees of its net tolls and revenues;
the St'ate waived its own lien upon the. gross revenues so far
only as. to subordinate it to the lien of that mortgage; subject
to that lien, the State took a new mortgage as additional security for the repayment of its original loan to the company;
and the statute, under and pursuant to which these two mortgages were executed, and to which each was made subject, expressly provided that the company should. have authority to
use and apply so much of the gross tolls and revenues ,as
might be necessary to keep the canal in repair, to provide the
requisite supply of water, and to pay salaries and current expenses.
The necessary effect of this arrangement was, for the promotion of the public object, as well as for the ultimate benefit
of the mortgagees, to appropriate the tolls and revenues in the
first instance to .the payment of necessary repairs and expenses.
The debt of the judgment creditor in this case was a gen-

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Syllabus.

eral debt of the company, and not a bond secured by the trust
mortgage, nor a debt contracted for repairs, or salaries, or
other current expenses. It is alleged in the bills, and admitted
by the demurrers, that the creditor, at the time of contracting
his debt, had notice of all the charges, liens and duties affecting
the tolls and revenues, and especially of the provision by which
they were appropriated, in the first instance, to the payment
of necessary expenses. And the money of the corporation,
which he seeks to apply to the payment of his debt, is needed
for those expenses.
It follows that the judgment creditor has no equity, and that
the State of Maryland, and the trustees for bondholders, whose
security will be affected by the diversion of this money from
its lawful object, are entitled to injunctions.
This conclusion accords with the adjudication of the Court
of Appeals of Maryland in Brady v. State, 26 Maryland, 290,
and with the opinions expressed by that court in 'earlier and
later cases. Boyd v. Chesapeake & Ohio Canal, 17 Maryland,
195; 7Firginia,v. Okesapeake & Ohio Canal, 32 Maryland,
501.
Dccree aJfirned.

WURTS & Another v. TOAGLAND & Others, Commissioners.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued March 10, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

The statute of New Jersey of March 8, 1871, providing for the drainage of any
tract of low or marshy land within the State, upon proceedings instituted
by at least five owners of separate lots of land included in the tract, and
not objected to by the owners of the greater part of the tract, and for the
assessment by commissioners, after notice and hearing, of the expenses upon
all the owners, does not deprive them of their property without due process
of law, nor deny to them the equal protection of the laws, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.

