VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Chaffin v. Taylor

CHAFFIN v. TAYLOIL
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

This case falls within the decision in .oindexter v. Greenhow, ante, page 270,
and is decided by it.

fr. William L. 1oyall, Mr'.. Daniel H. Chamberlain [Ar.
William B. Hornblower was with him on the brief], Aff.
Wager Swayne,' and AXr. William . Evart& for plaintiff in
error..
.A F. S. Blair,Attorney-General 'of the. State of Virginia,
Ar. Richard T. .ferrick, and Ar. Attorey-General for defondant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action in trespass de lonis asortatis,brought.
by the plaintiff if error against the defendant in the Circuit
Court for the county of Henrico in Virginia, for the recovery
of $150 damages for unlawfully entering upon the plaintiff's
premises and seizing, taking, and carrying away one horse, the
property of the plaintiff, of the value of $100.
The defendant justified the taking, &c., as treasurer of
Henrico County, charged by law with the duty of collecting
-taxes due the State of Virginia on property and persons.in said
county, alleging that the property was lawfully seized and
taken for taxes due from the plaintiff to the State, which on
demand, he had refused to pay.
To this plea the plaintiff replied a tender in payment of the
taxes, when demanded and before the trespass complained of,
of the amount due, in coupons cut from bonds of the State of
Virginia, receivable in payment of taxes by virtue of the act
of March 30, 1871.
To the replication the defendant demurred specially, on the
ground, first, that by the act of January 26, 1882, he was forbidden to receive coupons in payment of taxes, and, second,
that by the act of March 13, 1884, an action of trespass would
not lie in such a case.
MR. JUSTICE MA&-TaWS

OCTOBER, TERM, 1884.
Opinion in Chaffin v.Taylor.

In this demurrer the plaintiff joined, and assigned as a reason
why it should be overruled that the two statutes mentioned
and relied on by the defendant were repugnant to section 10,
Article I, of the Constitution of the United States, and there-.
fore null and void.
Judgment was rendered on the demurrer in favor of the defendant. Thereafter, on November 25, 1884, the plaintiff filed
his petition in the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia for
the allowance of a writ of error; wherdupon, as the record
recites, the petition, "having been 'maturely considered, and
the transcript of the record of the judgment aforesaid seen
and inspecied, the court, being of .opinion that said judgment
is plainly right, doth deny the said writ."
To reverse this judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals is, in stibstance, a judgment affirming the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Henrico County, and is, therefore, reviewable upon.
this writ of error by this court, the case being one which arises
under *the Constitution of the United States. Williams v.
.Brzfy,
102 U. S. 248.
The merits of the case are disposed of by the opinion in
Poindexter v. Greenhow, in which it was decided that the act
of January 26, 1882, and the act of March 13, 1884, were unconstitutional, and therefore null and void!.
It isnot denied that, but for these acts, the action of trespass would lie in such a case under the laws of Virginia; and
as the acts relied on by the defendant must be treated as ineffectual for every purpose, they do not work a repeal of the
previously existing law.
The judgment of the S ujpreme Court of .Aypeals is accordingly reversed, and the cause is remanded to that court,with
directions.to take f'trther _proceedings, in accordancewith
law, in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, with whom concurred ThE CHIEF
JUSTICE, MIn. JUSTICE MILLER, and Mr. JusTiCE GRAY, dissented.
Their dissenting opinion will be found 2ost,page 330, after the
opinion of the court in MAnyE v. PArsoxs.

