VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Syllabus in Carter v. Greenhow.

jurisdiction -in equity vested by the Constitution of the United
States, and which cannot be affected by the legislation of the
States.
In the present case, the jurisdiction in equity to grant the
relief prayed for by injunction, and the propriety of its exercise, are alike indisputableThe decree of the Circuit Court is.accordiglyajflrmed.
MiR. J'USTIcE, BRADLn

Y, with whom concurred THE "CHIEF

and MR. JiSTmIC GRAY,dissented.
Their dissenting opinion will be found 2 ost, page 330, after the
opinion of the Court in MAmu v. PARsoNs.
JUSTICE, MR.JUSTICE MILLEIE

CARTER v. GREEN-OW.
IN ERROR TO TIE CIROtUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

The 16th clause of § 629 Rev. Stat., authorizing suits, without reference to
the sum or value in controversy or the citizenship of the parties, to be
brought in the Circuit Courts of the United States to redress the deprivation. under color of State law, of any right, privilege, or immunity secured
by the Constitution of the United States, in violation of § 1979 Rev. Stat.,
does not embrace an action of trespass on the case in which the plaintiff
seeks a recovery of damages against a tax collector in Virginia. who, hayiug rejected a tender of tax-receivable coupons, issued under the act of
March 80, 1871, seeks to collect the tax for which they were tendered by a
seizure and sale of personal property of the plaintiff.
Although the right to have such coupons received in payment of taxes is
founded on a contract with the State, and that right is protected by the
Constitution of the United States, Art. 1,See. 10, forbidding the State
to pass any laws impairing the obligation of the contract, the only mode of
redress in case of any disturbance or dispossession of property, or for other
legal rights based on such violation of the contract, is to have a judicial
determination, in a suit between individuals, of the invalidity of the law,
under color of which the wrong has been committed. No direct action for
the denial of the right secured by the contract will lie.

Xr. William L. 1oyall, Mr.1DanieZ H. Camberlain [31r.
1filliam B. Bornblower was with him on the brief], -Yfr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion in Carter v. Greenhow.

Wager Swayne, and XMr'. Tilliam X. Evvarts for plaintiff in
error.
3fr. F. S. Blair,Attorney-General of the State of Virginia,
r'. Richard T. 3ferrick and .A-. Attorney-General, for the
defendant in error.
JUSTICE MATEWS delifered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought his action, in the Circuit Court
of the United States, against the defendant, on May 7, 1883.
His cause of action is set forth in the declaration as follows:
"Samuel S. Carter, plaintiff, complains of Samuel C. Greenhow, defendant, of a plea of. trespass on the case, for that the
said plaintiff is a citizen of the State of Virginia and a resident
of the City of Richmond, in said State. That the plaintiff
owns property in said city, and that he was lawfully assessed
on said property by the officers of the State of Virginia, whose
duty it was under the laws of Virginia to make such assessment, with taxes to be. paid to the State of Virginia for the
year 1882, and, that said taxes were due and leviable for, on
and after the first day of December, 1882.
"That the defendant, Samuel C. Greenhow, ,s the treasurer
of the City of Richmond, in the State of Virginia, and that
the laws of Virginia make it his duty to collect all taxes due
to the State of Virginia by residents of said city on property
situated and being in said city. That on the 3d day of May,
1883, the plaintiff was indebted to the said State of Virginia
on account of the taxes so assessed upon his property ag aforesaid for the year 1882, and that on said last-named date he
tendered to the defendant, in payment of his said taxes,
coupons cut froih bonds issued by the State of Virginia, under
the provisions of the act of the General Assembly of the State
of Virginia, approved March 28,1879, entitled ' An Act to provide a plan of settlement of the public debt,'-which coupons,
together with a small amount of lawful money of the United
States, tendered at the same time, amounted exactly to the
grum-so due by the plaintiff for taxes as aforesaid, and which
coupons were due and, past maturity, in payment of his said

Mr.

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.

319.

Opinion in Carter v. Greenhow.

taxes so due as aforesaid. That by the terms of the act of the
General Assembly under which said coupons were issued, the
said coupous are receivable in payment of all taxes due to the
State of Virginia, and that each of said coupons bore upon its.
face the contract of the State. of Virginia that it should be received in payrhe.nt of taxes due to said State. That the defendant refused to receive the said coupons -and money in payment of the taxes so due by the plaintiff. That after said
.tender the said defendant unlawfully entered into and upon
the plaintiff's premises and -place of business and leviea upon
and seized the plaintiff's property and carried the same away
to sell the same in payment of plaintiff's taxes. That plaintiff
was always ready -and willing to deliver to the defendant in
payment of said taxes, up to the moment when the defendant
so levied upon his said property, the said coupons and money,
and he many times offered to do so, but the defendant always
refused to receive the same. That the plaintiff has the right
under the Constitution of the United States to pay- his said
taxes to the said defeildant in the said coupons and money,
and that this right is secured to him by the Constitution of the
United States. That when the defendant refused to receive
the said coupons and mon.ey in payment of the taxes so due as
afdresaid by the plaintiff, he did so under color of and by the
command of an act of the General Assembly of the State of
Virginia, appfoved January 26, 1882, entitled 'An Act to provide for the more efficienut collection of the revenue, to support
government, maintain the public schools, and. to pay interest
on-the public debt.' which act forbids collectors of taxes dueto
said State to receive in payment thereof anything .except gold;
silver, United States treasury notes, and national bank cur-.
rency; and that when he so levied upon the plaintiffs property
he did so by virtue of and under the command of the 18th
section of an act of the General Assembly of -the State of Virginia, approved April 1, 1879, which act is chapter sixty of
the laws published by authority of the Genefal Assembly of
the State of Virginia for the special session of 1879; and by
virtue of and under the command of other statutes ena~ted by
the General Assembly of the State of VIrginia. That the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion in Carter v. Greenhow.

two last-mentioned acts of the General Assembly of the State
of Virginia, and the other mentioned statutes of said State,
commanding the defendant to levy so as aforesaid upon the
property of the plaintiff, are repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States, and are therefore void; that in refusing to
receive the said coupons and money in payment of said taxes,
,"and in levying on and seizing the plaintiff's property for said
taxes, after the plaintiff had tendered the same in payment
thereof, the defendant deprived the plaintiff of a right secured
to him by the Constitution of the United States, under color of
statutes enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Virgihia, to the damage of the plaintiff two hundred dollars
($200), and therefore he brings this suit."
To this declaration a general demurrer was fied and sustained, and -judgment rendered accordingly for the defendant.
To reverse that judgment the present writ of error is prosecuted.
The sixteenth clause of § 629 Rev. Stat., defining the original
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, gives to
them cognizance, without reference to the sum or value in controversy, or the citizenship of the parties, "of all suits authorized by law to be brought by any person to redress the
deprivation, under color of any law; statute, ordinance, regulation, custom or usage of any State, of any -right,privilege or
immunity secured by the Constitution of the United States, or
of any right secured by any law providing for equal rights of
citizens of the United States, or of all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States."
Similar jurisdiction is conferred upon District Courts by:the
twelfth clause of § 563 Rev. Stat.
§ 1979 Rev. Stat., provides that "every person who, under
color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom or usage of
any State or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any
citizen of the United States, or other person within the jurisdiction thereof, to the deprivation of any rights, privileges or
immunities secured by the Constitutiot and laws, shall be liable
to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress."
These three provisions constituted the first section of the act

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES:

321

Opinion in Cirter v.,Greenhow.

of April 20, 10'1, entitled "An Act to enforce the'prov'isions of
the Fourteenth Amendment t6 th6 Constitution 8f the United
States, pLnd for other purposes." 17 Stat. 13. In that section,
the language conferring -juriSdiction iii the courts, was as
follows:
"Such proceeding to be prosecuted in the several District
or Circuit Courts of the United States, with and subject to the
same rights of appeal, review upon error, and other remedies
provided in like cases in such courts, under the provisions of
the act of the ninth of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-six,
intitled.' An Act to protect all persons in the United. States in
their civil rights, and to furnish the means of their vindication.'
and the other remedial laws of the Uhitel States which are in
.their-nature applicable in such cases."
§ 2 of the act here referred .to, of April 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27,
provided "that. any personwho, under color of any law, statute, ordinance, regulation or custom, shall subject, or cause- to
be subjected, any inhabitant of any State or Territory to' the
deprivation of any right secured or protected by this act,'or to
different punishment, pains or penalties on account of such pqrson having, at any time, been held in a condition of slavery or
involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof
the party shall have been duly convicted, or by reason of his
color or race, than is prescribed for the punishment-of white
persons, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction, shall be puilished by fine not exceeding one thousand'
dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both, in
the discretion of the court."
The question presented -in this record, is, whether the facts'
stated in the plaintiff's declaration .constitute a cause of action
within the terms'uf § 1979 Rev. Stat., ,hat is, whether he shows
himself, within its meaning, to have been subjected by the
defendant., under color of a statute of a State, to the deprivation
of a right, privilege or immunity secured by the' Constitution.
The acts charged against the defendant are, that he refused
to receive from the plaintiff .he coupons tendered in payment
of taxes, and thereafter proceeded to levy upon and take his
property for the putpose of collecting such taxes in money..
ToL. cxiv-21

OCTOBER TERM3,

1884

Opinion in Carter v. Greenhow.

The rights alleged to be violated are the right to pay taxes in
coupons instead of in money, and, after a tender of coupons,
.the immunity from further proceeding to collect such taxes as
though they were delinquent. These rights the plaintiff derives
from the contract with the State. contained in the act of March
2S, 1879, and the bonds and coupons issued under its authority.
How and in what sense are these rights secured to him by the
Constitution of the United States? The answer is, by that
provision, Art. I., Sec. 10, which forbids any State to pass laws
impairing the obligation of contracts. That constitutional provision, so far as it can be said to confer upon, or secure to, any
person, any individual rights, doe so only indirectly and incidentally. It forbids the passage by the States of laws such as
are described. If any such are nevertheless passed by the legislature of a State, they are unconstitutional, null and void. In
any judicial proceeding necessary to vindicate his rights under
a contract, affected by such legislation, the individual has a
right to have a judicial determination, declaring the nullity of
the attempt to impair its obligation. This is the only right
secured to him by that clause of the Constitution. But of this
right the plaintiff does not show that he has been deprived.
He has simply chosen not to-resort to it. 'The right to pay his
taxes in coupons, and the immunity from further proceedings,
in case of a rejected tender, are not rights directly secured to
him by the Constitution, an.d only so indirectly as they happen
in this case to be the rights of contract which he holds under
the laws of Virginia. And the only mode in which that constitutional security takes effect is by judicial process to invalidate'tbe unconstitutional legislation of the State, when it is set
up against the enforcement of his rights under his contract.
The mode in which Congress has legislated in aid of the rights
secured by that clause of. the Constitution, is, as is pointed out
with clearness and fulness in the opinon of the court in the
Civil Rigldt Cases, 109 U. S. 3-12, by providing for a review on
writ of error to the judgments of the State courts, in cases where
they have failed properly to give it effect, and by conferring
jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts by the act of March 3,
I875, ch. 137, 1S Stat. 470, of all cases arising under the

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Pleasants o. Greenliow.

Cbnstitution and laws of the United States, where the sum or
value in dispute exceeds $500. Congress has provided no other
remedy for the enforcement of this right.
It miight be difficult to enumerate the several descriptions of
rights secured t6 individuals by the Constitution, the deprivation of which, by any person, would-subject the latter to an
action for redress under-§ 1979 Rev. Stat., and, 'fortunately, it
is not necessary to do so in this case. It is sufficient to say
that the declaration now-before us does not show a cause of
action within its terms.
The Judgment of the Circuit Court w accordingly affirmed
MR. JUSTICE BRALEY, with whom were the CHIEF JUSTICE,
Mm. JUSTICE MILER and M .JUSTICE GRAY, concurred in the

]udgment, but rested their concurrence upon the grounds stated
in their opinion _post, page 330, after the opimon of the court
i MARY V. PARsoNs.

PLEASANTS v. GREENHOW, Treasurer.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR,
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF 'VIRGINIA.

This case falls withi'the decision in Carter v. Greenhow, ante, page 817.

_Yr HIliam, H Royall, MWr Dantl -f. Camberknn [X1r
William B. Hornblower was with him on the brief ], _Yr
Wager Suayne and YrI Wiltam X. Evarts for ajpellant.
MrMF S. Blair,Attorney-General of the State of Virginia,
for appellee.
=C MA-rnws-delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the.,s.ppellant, a citizen of
Virginia, praying that the defendant, Green.how, T1easurer of

MR. JuS

