OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

into whose hands trust assets are shown to have come, who
not only fails to discharge any duty of the trust, but even
denies that he has ever received the property, cannot successfully resist an application made to a court of equity for his
removal.
The counsel for appellant say that they regret that the pleadings and evidence do not permit a full presentation of the case
upon its merits. We cannot act on this vague intimation.
There may be facts not disclosed which, if shown by the record,
would entirely change the aspect of the case. But we must
try the case as the record reveals it. Upon the cause, as presented, with no explanation vouchsafed by the appellant, it is
difficult to conceive of a clearer case for the removal of a trustee and the appointment of another in his stead.
-Decreea/ffrmed.

BURTON v. WEST JERSEY FERRY COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

NITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 9, 1885.-Decided April 20, 1885.

i general exception to a charge, which does not direct the attention of the
court to the particular portions of it to which objection is made, raises no
question for review by this court.
.he failure of a steam ferry company, engaged in transporting passengers for
hire across a river, to provide seats enough for all, is not negligence, entailing,Iiability for injury by accident, unless it appears that a less number of
seats was provided than was customary and sufficient for those who ordinarily preferred to be seated while crossing.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
M'. Jerome Carty [M!r. B. Frank Clajp and -,r.Alayer
Sulzberger were with him] for plaintiff in error.

BURTON v. WEST JERSEY FERRY COMPAN-.

-175

Opinion of the Court.
2fr. Richard C. Dale [.Ar. Samuel Dickson.was. with him]
for defendant in error.
aRA delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE H
The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, took passage
at Camden, iNew Jersey, for Philadelphia, on a ferry-boat belonging to the defendant, a New Jersey corporation engaged
in the business of transporting passengers, animals, and vehicles across the Delaware between those cities. On that trip
the boat was unusually crowded with passengers. The river
at the time was very full of ice, and it was difficult for the
boat to get across and enter the ferry slip on the Philadelphia
side. The wharf on that side was reached only after repeated
efforts. In the attempt to land the boat was driven against
the bridge with such force as to throw the plaintiff and a number of other persons (all of whom were standing during the
passage across the river) with great violence upon the floor.
The fall caused serious and, perhaps, permanent injury to the
plaintiff. In this action she claims damages from. the defendant upon the ground that her injuries resulted from the careless
and negligent management of the ferry-boat by its agents and
servants. The plaintiff made a case entitling her to go to the
jury upon the issue as to the defendant's negligence. But .there
-.yas, also, proof tending to show that the striking of the boat
against the wharf on the Philadelphia side occurred under peculiar circumstances, and could not, perhaps, have been avoided
by any diligence upon the part of the agents of the defendant.
When the evidence was concluded, and after the parties
submitted their requests for instructions, the court delivered
its charge upon the whole case, reading to the jury the instructions asked by either party that were approved, and accompanying them with such observations, by way of explanation or qualification, as it deemed necessary.
The third and fourth points submitted in behalf of plaiptiff
were overruled. They were as follows:
"Third. If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendants received the plaintiff 'as a passenger, and that they
failed to provide her with a seat, or that she was unable to

OCTOBER .TERM1,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

obtain a seat by reason of the crowded condition of the boat,
and while standing in the cabin she was, without any fault of
her own, thrown down and injured by a sudden shock to the
boat, then the defendants are guilty of negligence, and your
verdict should be for the plaintiff.
"Fourth. If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendants received the plaintiff, a woman 67 years of age, as a
passenger, and that they failed to provide her with a seat, or
that she was unable to obtain a seat by reason of the crowded
condition of the boat, and while standing in the cabin she was,
without any fault of her own, thrown down and injured by a
sudden shock to the boat, then the defeudants were guilty of
negligence, and your verdict should be for the plaintiff."
At the conclusion of the charge, the plaintiff, by counsel,
excepted to the overruling of her third and fourth points, and,
also, to "the charge and opinion" of the court. No other exceptions were taken.
1. The general exception to the charge did not direct the
attention of the court to the particular portions of it to which
the plaintiff objected. It, therefore, raises no question for review by this court. Connecticut Life Ins. Co. v. Union Trust
Co., 112 U. S. 250, 261, and authorities there cited.
2. The only question for determination relates to the refusal
of the court to instruct the jury as indicated by the third and
fourth points of the plaintiff, which involve, substantially, the
same proposition. Those points were properly overruled.
Under the theory of the case which they present, the juryalthough the sudden shock to the boat, from which plaintiff's
injuries immediately resulted, may have occurred without want
of care or skill upon the part of the defendant's servants-would
have been required to find for the plaintiff, if the defendant
failed to provide her with a seat, or if she was unable, by reason
of the crowded condition of the boat, to obtain one. In other
words, that the mere failure of the company to provide a seat
for a passenger on its boat was, in law, and of itself, proof of
negligence. It appeared in evidence that the boat was provided with seats; but it did not appear that a less number was
provided than was customary and sufficient for those who

CLAWSOIT v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

ordinarily preferred to be seated while crossing in ferry-boats
between Camden and Philadelphia.

No circumstances were

disclosed that would have justified the jury in finding that a
proper degree of care, upon the part of defendant, required it

to provide seats sufficient for the accommodation of all the
passengers that its boat could safely carry, or of such number

of passengers as ordinarily travelled upon it.
The judgment is

A.?1rmned. "

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued April 8, 1885.-Decided April 20, 18S5.

Under ยง 5 of the act of Congress of March 22, 182, 22 Stat. 30, which prorides, "that in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of the United States, it shall be sufficient cause of
challenge, to any person drawn or summoned as a juryman or talesman,
. . . that hebelieves it right for a man to have more than one living and
undivorced wife at the same time," the proceedings to empanel the grand
jury which finds an indictment for one of the offences named, under a
statute of the United States, against a person not before held to answer,
are a part of the prosecution, and the indictment is good, although persons
drawn and summoned as grand jurors were excluded by the court from
serving on the grand jury, on being challenged by the United States, for
the cause mentioned, the challenges being found true.
The Statute applies to grand jurors.
Where, under ยง 4 of the act of Congress of June 23,1874, 18 Stat. 254, "in relation to courts and judicial officers in the Territory of Utah," in the trial
of an indictment, the names in the jury-box of 200 jurors, provided for'by
that section, are exhausted, when the jury is only partly empanelled, the
District Court may issue a venire to the United States marshal for the
Territory, to summon jurors from the body of the judicial district, and the
jury may be completed from persons thus summoned.

This writ of error was sued out to review an indictment and
conviction of the plaintiff in error for polygamy, and for co-labiting with more than one woman, against the laws of the
United States.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

