OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ercise, and it can only be exercised through the instrumentality
of grand juries. They are, therefore, given by a necessary and
indispensable i'mplication. But, how far is this implication
necessary and indispensable? The answer is obvious. Its
necessity is co-extensive with that jurisdiction to which it is
essential," page 159.
The cases to which we are referred by the plaintiff in error
were cases where express statute provisions had been disregarded 6r violated. If, in this case, an open venire had been
issued before the two hundred names were exhausted, a different question would have been presented.
The recdrd shows no error, and
Thejudgment is ajimied.

HOPT v. UTAH.
IN FAMOR

TO THE SUPRE

E COURT

OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.

Submitted January 28, 18.-Decfded April 20, 8M.

Under the Utah Code of Criminal Procedure of 1878, a judgment upon a verdict of guilty of murder, the record of which states that the courf charged
the jury. and does not contain the charge in writing, nor show that with
the defendant's consent it was given orally, is erroneous, and must be reversed on appeal.

This was a writ of error to reverse a judgment rendered by
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, affirming, upon
appeal from the District Court of the Third Judicial District
of the Territory, a judgment and sentence of death upon a
conviction of murder. The decisions of this court, after
former trials of the case, are reported in 104 U. S. 631, and 110
U. S. 574.
One of the errors assigned in the brief filed in behalf of the
plaintiff in error was that the record did not comply with the
statute of Utah requiring that the -writtencharges of the. court
should form part of the record.

HOPT v. UTAHE
Statement of Facts.

In the copy of the record of the District Court contained in
the record transmitted by the Supreme Court of the Territory
to this court, the statement relating to the charge of the court
to the jury, and the exceptions to the charge, *ere as follows:
On May 5 the case was finally argued by the counsel for either
party, "and the court charged the jury; defendant's counsel
except generally to the instructions given by the court on its
own motion, and exception allowed; and a verdict of guilty of
murder in the first degree was returned and entered." And
on May 16, "the time allowed by law for filing the bill of exceptions herein having passed, the court, upon application of
defendant's counsel, refuses to further extend the time. Defendant excepts." The record also. showed that on May 10,
after judgment and sentence, a notice of appeal was filed .by
the defendant with the clerk, and a copy of the notice served
on the district attorney.
Appended to the brief filed in this court in behalf of the
United States was an affidavit, taken January 7, 1885, of. the
deputy clerk of the District Court, testifying that the counsel
for the defendant at the trial in that court, who requested him
to prepare the transcript of record on appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, requested him to omit the written
charge given by the court to the jury at the trial, and toId
him that no point was to be made by.the defendant upon the
instructions given by'the, court to the jury; that the transcript
prepared in accordance with that request was delivered by the
clerk to the counsel, and by them filed with the clerk of the
Supreme Court of the Territory; that by reason alone of that
request the written charge was omitted from the record; and
that no bill of exceptions was ever filed, or offered to be filed,
or presented to the Judge of the District Court for settlement.
.r.: R. . Baskin, Xfr. S. H. Sncer, and X'. W. G. -Fi
Hrorne for plaintiff in error.
.r. Assistan Attorney-General 2faury for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the facts in the foregoing

language, delivered the opinion of the court.
By the Utah Code of Criminal Procedure of 1878, the charge
of the court io the jury "must be reduced to writing before it
is given, unless by mutual consent of the parties it is given
orally." § 257, cl. 7. Within five days after judgment upon a
conviction, the clerk must annex together and fie the papers
necessary to constitute the record, including "4. A copy of
the minutes of trial; 5. A copy of the minutes of the judgment; 6. The bill of exceptions, if there be one; 7. The written
charges asked of the court and refused, if there be any; 8. A
copy of all charges given and of the indorsements thereon."
§ 339. The defendant may either take exceptions to the instructions of the court to the jury in matter of law at the trial
of an indictment; or he may, without a bill 6f exceptions, appeal from a final judgment of conviction, on any question of
law presented by written charges requested, given or refused, or
any other question of lav appearing on the record. §§ 309, 315,
358, 360. The manner of taking an appeal is by filing a notice
with the clerk of the court in which the judgment is entered,
and serving a copy thereof upon the attorney of the adverse
party. § 363.
The statute expressly and peremptorily requires that the
charge of the court to the jury shall be reduced to writing before it is given, unless :by mutual consent of the parties it is
given orally; and, as has already bden adjudged by this court
in this case, the giving, without the defendant's consent, of any
oral charge or instruction to the jury, is an error, for which
judgment must be reversed. 104 U. S. 631. The requirement
of the statute that .the clerk of the court in which the trial is
had shall include, in making up its record, a copy of all written
charges, as well as of the minutes of the trial, is equally positive. The object of these provisions, requiring the instructions
to be in writing and recorded, is to secure an accurate and anthentic report of the instructions, and to insure to the defendant the means of having, them revised in an appellate
court.
When the record shows that the jury were charged by the

HOPT v. UTAIL
Opinion of the Court.

court, nothing can excuse the omission to set forth in the record
a charge in writing, except express consent of the defendant
that it should be given orally, and that consent must appear of
record. The record must either set forth the charge in writing,
or a waiver by the defendant of such a charge. If it does
neither, it fails to show what is made by express statute an
essential requisite to the validity of the conviction, and contains upon its face a fatal error, of which the defendant
may avail himself by appeal, without tendering a bill of
exceptions.
The duty of making up a complete record is the duty of the
clerk; and the duty of seeing that the record contains everything that actually took place, necessary to support the conviction, is the duty of the district attorney. If the copy of the
record made up by the clerk of the District Court, and entered
by the defendant in the Supreme Court of the Territory, was defective in a material point, the district attorney might have
moved in the latter court to have the defect supplied by
certiorari or other proper process. The defendant and his
counsel were under no obligation to cure, and cannot be held
to have waived, any defect in the record, but were entitled to
take advantage, either in the Supreme Court of the Territory,
or in this court, of any error apparehit upon the record as it stood
in that court.
Applying these principles to the record before us, the conviction cannot be supported. The record merely states that
the court charged the jury, and does not state whether the
charge was written or oral. If the charge was ivritten, it
should have been made part of the record, which has not
been done. If it was oral, the consent of the defezidant was
necessary, and that consent does not appear of record, and cannot be presumed.
It is hardly necessary to add that the affidavit taken since
the entry of the case in this court cannot be considered. The
lawfulness of the conviction and sentence of the defendant is
to be determined: by the formal record, made up and transmitted as required by law, of what was done in his presence at
the trial in open court; and not by ex parte affidavits of private

OCTOBER TERM. 1884.
Syllabus.

conversations supposed to have afterwards taken place in his
absence between the counsel and the clerk.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded, with directions to
order the verdict to be set aside and a new trialgranted.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE HARLN

dissented.

ATLANTIC PHOSPHATE COMPANY v. GRAFFLIN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued April 16, 17, 1885.-Decided Iay 4, 1885.
A contract -was made by A., of Charleston, with D., of Baltimore, for the sale
and delivery, at Charleston, of 2,500 tons of kainii, to be shipped from
August to October, 1880, at a fixed' price, cash on delivery of each cargo.
The kainit was to come from R., at Hamburg. D. procured G., for a commission paid him by D., to send to R. a credit on London, for the amount
of 2,500 tons of kainit, in five cargoes, under which R. obtained the money.
G. paid drafts, against the credit, to the amount of the cargoes. The declarations and invoices by R., presented before the consul at Hamburg, named
G. as the consignee at Charleston ; and the bills of lading made the cargoes
deliverable, at Charleston, to G. or his assigns. These papers were sent to A.,
before any of the cargoes arrived, with an invoice for each cargo, in the
shape of a bill, made out thus: A. bought of G., a cargo of kainit, shipped
by such a vessel, such a quantity, such a price ; and a power of attorney,
under which A's agent, as attorney for G., entered the cargoes at the custom-house at Charleston, in February and Mrch, 1881, as imported by G.,
and made oatr that G. was the owner. A. received and accepted the cargoes:
Hreld,
(1.) G. was the owner of the cargoes, and sold and delivered them to A., to be
paid for on delivery, free from any claim growing out of the contract of A.
with D. or R., for any breachrof-that contract, as to the time of shipping the
cargoes.
(2.) Awas liable to G. for the price of the cargoes, with interest from their
delivery.

Action at law to recover the price of articles delivered by
defendant in error to plaintiff in error. Judgment below for
plaintiff. Defendant below as plaintiff in error brought the

