WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PAC.RAILWAY CO. v. HAM. 687
Syllabus.

of the court, and any patent issued to one, or the other, or both
these parties, under this proceeding for this property, must relate back to the date of their claims, and override the new
patent. This result cannot be defeated by producing this new
patent to destroy it. The claim was initiated by a party to this
suit 1 endente lite, and must abide the result of the litigation in

this case.
These are the principles which control the decision of the
case. There may be others suggested, by counsel which are not
here specially noticed, but they are not deemed sufficient to
vary the result.

7e judgment of the Suprerne Court of Nevada is aflirmed.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COM.PANY v. HAM & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 8,1S85.-Decided May 4,1885.

Four railroad corporations whose roads formed a connecting line in Ohio, In.
diana and Illinois, were consolidated, according to the statutes of those
States, under an agreement in which the capital on the basis of which each
entered into the consolidation was described as composed of the amount of
its stock and of its mortgage bonds and other bonds, and-it was agreed that
all those bonds should, " as to the principal and interest thereof, as the
same shall respectively fall due, be protected by the consolidated company,
according to the true effect and meaning of the bonds." Two years aftarwards, the consolidated company, to secure its own bonds payable at a later
date than the old ones, executed a mortgage of all its property to trustees;
which recited that it had been deemed for the interest of the corporation ag
-well as for the interest of all the various classes of existing bonds (which
were specifically described) that the whole of them should be consolidated
into one mortgage debt upon equitable principles ; and provided that a
sufficient amount of. the new bonds should be retained "to retire, in such
manner and upon such terms as the directors may from time to time prescribe," an equal amount of the old bonds. Six years later, the consohdatel

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
company made another mortgage to secure other bonds, for norl-iayment
of which it was afterwards foreclosed by sale of the whole property. Held,
That the property was not subject to any lien in favor of bonds of one of
the old companies, issued after the passage of the statutes authorizing the
consolidation, unsecured by any mortgage or lien before the consolidation,
and the holders of which had not exchanged or offered to exchange them
for bonds of the consolidated company before the proceedings for foreclosure.

This was an appeal from a decree in equity, declaring certain bonds issued by the Toledo. and Wabash Railway Company to be a lien upon property formerly owned by that company, and since transferred by it to the Toledo, Wabash and
Western Railway Company, a corporation created by its consolidation with three other railroad corporations. 11 Bissell,
510. The material facts appearing by the record were as follows:
The Toledo and Wabash Railway Company, a corporation
organized under the, laws of the States of Ohio and Indiana,
owning a railroad extending from Toledo in Ohio to Wabash
in Indiana; its property in Ohio being subject to a first mortgage for $900,000, and a second mortgage for $1,000,000, and its
property in Indiana subject to a first mortgage for $2,500,000,
and a second mortgage for $1,500,000; on November 2, 1862,
executed and issued for value bonds to the amount of $600,000, styled "Equipment Bonds," payable in New York on May
1, 1883, with coupons attached for seini-annual interest at the
yearly rate of seven per cent. ; and convertible at the option of
the holder, at any time within five years, into common stock of
the company at par. The company paid interest on those
bonds to May 1, 1865.
On May 29, 1865, no lien of any kind then existing in favor
of the equipment bonds, the Toledo and Wabash Railway
Company and three railroad corporations incorporated by the
States of Indiana and Illinois, whose roads formed a continuous
line from Toledo to the Mississippi River, entered into an
agreement to consolidate the railroads, property arid capital
stock, and to become one corporation under the name of the
Toledo, Wabash and Western Railway Company, with a capital stock of $15,000,000, "upon the basis and conditions here-

WABASH, ST. LOUIS, & PAC. RAILWAY CO. v. HAM. 5S9
Statement of Facts.
inafter to be specified," the material parts of which were as
follows:
"The Toledo and Wabash Railway Company enters into
said consolidation on the following basis, viz.: Its capital is
810,000,000, composed as follows: 1st mortgage bonds, $3,400,000; 2d mortgage bonds, $2,500,000; convertible equipment bonds, $600,000; convertible preferred stock, $1,000,000;
common stock, $2,500,000."
The basis on which each of the three other corporations
"enters into said consolidation" was'then set forth in like manner, by which the capital of the three together appeared to be
88,486,000, composed of -mortgage bonds, $5,800,000; and
stock $2,686,000; and one of those corporations assigned to
the consolidated company certain mortgage bonds, and agreed
to pay to it in tash the sum of $780,300, required to place
its road in equal condition with the Toledo and Wabash Railway.
"It is further agreed that the bonds and other debts hereinabove specified, in the manner and to the extent specified, and
not otherwise provided for in this agreement, shall, as to the
principal and interest thereof, as the same shall respectively
fall due, be protected by the said consolidated company, according to the true meaning and effect of the instruments or
bonds by which such indebtedness of the several consolidating
companies may be evidenced.
"The directors shall have power to issue any other and further bonds of said corporation to such an amount that the indebtedness of the consolidated company at any time shall not
exceed the amount of the capital stock authorized by this
agreement, and they may secure the bonds so issued by mortgage or other lien on the property of the consolidated company, or any specified part thereof."
The agreement of consolidation was ratified by the directors
and stockholders of all the companies, and the stockholders of
the old companies became stockholders in the new one; and
this company came into possession of all the railroads and
property of the four old companies, and received and distributed the earnings.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1884.

Statement of Facts.

On February 1, 1867, the consolidated company executed to
trustees a mortgage of all its railroads, property and franchises,
to secure bonds to be issued by it, to the amount of $15,000,000, payable in forty years, with"interest at the yearly rate of
seven per cent., and convertible at the option of the holders, at
any time within ten years, into common stock of the company
at par. The mortgage recited the consolidation, and also contained the following recitals:
"Whereas at the time of such consolidation the property of
said various companies was subject to certain bonded debts,
and the mortgages created by said several companies, or by
other railroad corporations -which, at the time of the creation
of said debts and mortgages, were the owners of the property
so consolidated; and whereas all the bonded debt of said company, party of the first part, including that secured by said
mortgages, as well as that not secured by any mortgage, now
amounts in the aggregte to the sum of $13,300,000, besides
interest; and whereas said bonded debt, as it now exists, is
represented and made up as follows, viz.:" Then followed a
statement of the various classes of mortgage bonds, above
mentioned, amounting in all to $11,700,000; the equipment
bonds, $600,000; and bonds issued by the consolidated company, due April 1, 1871, $1,000,000; and the last two classes
described as not secured by any mortgage.
" And whereas it has been deemed for the interest of the
said party of the first part, as well as for the benefit of the
holders of all said various classes of bonds, that the whole of
the same should be consolidated into one and the same mortgage debt, upon equitable principles; and whereas the increasing freight business of the road of the party of the first part
requires additional equipmaents to do the same; and whereas
it has been deemed expedient for the preservation of the
bridges on the line of said road that the same should be covered, and that additional depot accommodations should be obtained, and that the road through its entire length should be
fenced; and whereas the expenses to be incurred for the above
should be provided for by the creation of new capital; and
whereas for the purposes aforesaid, and, for the objects herein

WABASH, ST. LOUIS, & PAC. RAILWAY CO. v. HAM. 591
Statement of Facts.

stated, the said company, party of the first part, has resolved
to make and issue its bonds to the extent of $15,000,000, and
to secure the payment of the same by a mortgage upon its entire property; and that of the amount of said bonds to be
made and issued thereon should be retained $13,300,000 to retire, in such manner and upon such -terms as the directors of
said company may from time to time prescribe, a like amount
of the bonds of the various companies hereinabove enumerated and described and representing the aforesaid bonded debt,
and that the balance of said bonds, to wit, $1,700,000 thereof,
should be used to provide the said additional equipment and
other improvements hereinabove mentioned, and for such additional purposes as the said directors may deem advisable."
Bonds to the amount of $2,700,000 only were issued under
that mortgage; $1,700,000 for money borrowed, and $1,000,000
to retire the bonds of the consolidated company that became
due April 1, 1871.
The consolidated company paid the interest on the equipment bonds until N~ovember 1, 1874, after which no payment
was made of interest thereon.
On April 1, 1873, the consolidated company executed to the
trustees under the mortgage of February 1, 1867, and in order
"to give assurance to all persons whom it may in any wise
concern, that the said reserved bonds shall not, nor shall any or
either of them, be used for any other purpose than the retiring
of the said funded debt in some part thereof," a supplemental
agreement, by which it covenanted with the trustees, and with
all such parties, that it would not "make or issue, or attempt
to make or issue, any of the remaining $12,300,000 aforesaid
bonds secured by the said indenture of mortgage, except for
the purpose of, and subsequent to or simultaneously with, the
retiring of an equal amount of the balance remaining of the
said funded debt."
On February 1, 1873, two months before the execution of
the agreement of further assurance, the consolidated company
made another mortgage to secure other bonds to be issued- by
the company to the amount of $5,000,000, payable in gold.
Default having been made in the payment of interest on bonds

OCTOBER TERMI,

1884.

Statement of Facts.

so issued, proceedings for the foreclosure of that mortgage
were instituted nd a receiver appointed on February 22, 1875,
and a decree was afterwards entered for the sale of the railroad, franchises and other property of the company, subject to
the liens of all earlier mortgages, and without prejudice to
any claim that might be 'made by the holders of the equipment bonds. Under that decree .the property was sold and
conveyed to the purchasers, who afterwards became the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, the appellant
in this case.
None of the equipment bonds were ever exchanged for
bonds under the mortgage of 1867, nor did any holders of
equipment bonds demand an exchange until after May 1, 1875.
The statute of Ohio of April 10, 1856, in force at the thne
of the issue of the equipment bonds and of the consolidation in
question, by § 1, made it lawful for any railroad company in
Ohio to consolidate its capital stock with the capital stock of
any railroad in an adjoining State, whenever their roads united
so as to form a continuous line; by § 2, provided that the consolidation should be made by agreement of the directors of
each company, "prescribing the terms and conditions thereof,"
and that such agreement, when ratified by the stockholders,
should "be deemed and taken to be the agreement and act of
consolidation of said companies;" and also contained the following provisions:
"SEcTr. 3. Upon the making and perfecting the agreement

and act, as provided jn the preceding section, and filing the
same, or a copy, with the Secretary of State, the several corporations, parties thereto, shall be deemed and taken to be one
corporation, possessing within' this State all" the rights, privileges and franchises, and subject to all the restrictions, disabilities and duties of such corporation of this State so consolidated."
"SEcT. 5. Upon the election of the first board of directors of

the corporation created by said agreement of consolidation and
by the provisions of this act, all and singular the rights, privileges and franchises of each of said corporations, parties to the
same, and all the property, real, personal and mixed, and debts

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PAC. RAILWrAY CO. v. -HAM.. 593
-Statement of Facts.
due on account of subscriptions of stock or other things in action, shall be deemed to be transferred and vested in such new
corporation without further act or deed and all property, all
rights of way, and all other interests, shall be as effectually
the property of the new corporation as they were of the former
corporations, parties to said agreement; and the title to real
estate, either by deed, gift, grant, or by appropriations under
the laws of this"State, shall' not be deemed to revert, or be impaired by reasoni of this act: Provided, that all rights of creditors, and all liens upon the property of either of said corporations, shall be preserved unimpaired, and the respective corporations may be deemed to be in existence to preserve the same;
and all debts, liabilities and duties of either of said companies
shall henceforth attach to said new corporation and be enforced
against it to the same extent as if said debts, liabilities and duties hbd been contracted by it."
"SF=i.
7. Suits may. be brought and maintained against such
new company in the courts of this State for all causes of action
in the same manner as against other railroad companies in this
State." 1' Swan & Critchfield's Statutes, 32-7, 32S.The statute of Indiana in force at the same time, upon the
subject of consolidation, was as follows:
"Any railroad company heretofore organized under the
general or special laws of this State, shall have the power to
intersect, join and unite their railroad with any other railroad
constructed or in progress of construction in this State, or in
any adjoining State, at such point on the State line,- or at any
other point, as may be mutually agreed upon by said companies; and such railroad companies are authorized to merge
and consolidate the stock of the respective companies, making
one joint stock company of the two railroads thus c6nnected,
upon such terms as may be by them mutually agreed upon, in
accordance with the laws of the-adjoining State with whose
road or roads connections are thus formed: Provided, their
charters authorize said railroads to go to, the State line, or to
such point of intersection." Stat. February 23, 1853, §. 1; -1
Gavin & Hord's Statutes, 526.
The only provision of the statutes of Illinois, cited in arguVOL.

c=V-48

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, was the provision that "such consolidation may take
place whenever th6 said companies shall respectively agree
upon the terms and conditions of the same." Stat. February
28, 1854, ch. 9, § 2; 1 Gross's Statutes, 537.
.fr. Wager Swayne, _3r. Abram Hendricks, and 3'.

H.

S. Grieene for appellants.
3r.

Chlarles I. Zlassler for appellees.

_Ylr. 1. P. Ranney, 31r. E. C. Sprague, 3fr. Giorge F. Comstock and DJfr. John G. 3filburn, counsel for parties in like
interest with the appellees in a suit pending in the Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio, also, by permission of the court,
and with the consent of appellants' counsel, filed a brief in support of the lien of the equipment bonds.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY, after making the foregoing statemeat of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim of the holders of the equipment bonds to a lien on
the property of the Toledo, Wabash and Western Railway
Company was asserted upon several grounds.
1. It was contended that the property of the Toledo and
Wabash Railway Company was a trust fund for all its creditors, and that upon the consolidation the Toledo, Wabash and
Western Railway Company took the property of the Toledo
and Wabash Railway Company charged with the payment of
all its debts.
The property of a corporation is doubtless a trust fund for
the payment of its debts, in the sense that when the corporation is lawfully dissolved and all its business wound up, or
when it is insolvent, all its creditors are entitled in equity to
have their debts paid out of the corporate property before any
distribution thereof among the stockholders. It is also true, in
the case of a corporation, as in that of a natural person, that
any conveyance of property of the debtor, without authority of
law, and in fraud of existing creditors, is void as against them.
Story Eq. Jur. § 1252; Curran v. Arkansasi 15 How. 304;

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PAC.RAILWAY CO. v. HAMI. 595
Opinion of the Court.
Graham v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 148, 161; Railroad Co.
v. Howard, 'T Wall. 392; Goodin v. Cincinnati & TFhitewater
Canal, 18 Ohio St. 169.
But upon the consolidation, under express authority of
statute, of two or more solvent corporations, the business of
the old corporations is not wound up, nor their property
sequestrated or distributed, but the very object of the consolidation, and of the statutes which permit it, is to continue the
business of the old corporations. Whether the old corporations
are dissolved into the new corporation, or axe continued in existence under a new name and with new powers, dnd whether,
in either case, the consolidated company takes.the property of
each of the old corporations charged with a lien for the payment of the debts of that corporation, depend upon the terms.
of the agreement of consolidation, and of the statutes under
whose authority that consolidation is effected.
In the present case, before the consolidation, no lien of any
kind existed in favor of the equipment bonds; and the consolidation was made under and pursuant to statutes of Ohio,
Indiana and Illinois, passed before the issue of those bonds,
.and to which the contract of the bondholders was therefore
subject.
The effect of the Ohio Consolidation Act was to merge the
old corporations into the new one, which took their place, succeeded to their property and assumed their liabilities. ,S ields v.
Ohio, 95 U. S. 319 ; Railway (Co.v. Georgia, 98 U.S. 359. The
liability imposed by that statute upon the new corporation for
the debts of the old ones is the same as theirs, neither greater
nor, less. The provision of § 5 that "all rights of creditors,
and all liens upon the property of either of said corporations,
shall be preserved unimpaired," clearly distinguishes debts
secured by lien from debts not so secured, and indicates no intention to create a new lien in favor of creditors who before
had none, but simply preserves to each class of creditors the
rights belonging to it before the consolidation. The further
provisions of this section, that "the respective corporations may
be deemed to be in existence to preseive the saffie," and that
all debts of either of the old companies shall henceforth attach

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to the new corporation and be enforced against it to the same
extent as if it hadcontracted them, lead to the same conclusion.
The statute of Indiana is less specific in its provisions, but
expressly authorizes railroad companies within the State to
consolidate With railroad companies in an adjoining State "in
accordance with the laws of the adjoining State," and, as is well
settled by decisions of the Supreme Court of Indiana, does not
give to unsecured creditors of the old companies any lien or
precedence as against a subsequent mortgage of the consolidated property. 3feJfa/an v. ]Jorrison,16 Indiana, 112;
Incianapolis, Cincinnati & Lafayette Railroad v. Jones, 29
Indiana, 465; Painev. lake Erie & -Louisville Railroad, 31
Indiana, 283, 349; Jeffersonville, Jfadison & Indianapolis
Railroadv. Hendricks, 41 Indiana, 48.
It was not suggested in argument that there was any
material difference in the statutes of Illinois upon the subject.
This court therefore concurs in opinion with the Circuit
Court that the mere fact of consolidation, under these statutes,
did not create any lien in favor of the equipment bonds.
2. It was next contended that the stipulation in the agreement of consolidation that the bonds and debts therein specified
of the former companies shall "be protected by the said consolidated company" created a lien in their favor.
But it is only "as to the principal and interest as they shall
respectively fall due," and "according to the true meaning and
effect" of the instruments or bonds which are the evidence of
the debts, that it is stipulated that the debts shall "be protected by the said consolidated company;" and the stipulation
covers debts secured by mortgage as well a's unsecured debts.
The agreement "to protect" referring to the time of payment,
and "the true meaning and effect" of the equipment bonds
having been to create only a personal and unsecured debt of
one of the former companies, the words "shall be protected"
must have the same meaning which they ordinarily have in
promises of men of business "to protect" drafts or other debts,
not made or contracted by themselves, that is to say, a personal
obligation to see that they are paid at maturity.
3. It was further contended that by the transfer of the prop.

_WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PAC. RAILWAY CO. v. HAM. 597
Opinion of the Court.

erty of the Toledo and Wabash Railway Company to the
consolidated corporation, and the enumeration of the equipment bonds in the basis on which the former company entered
into the consolidation, those bonds were part of the consideration of the transfer, and that the case comes within the principle of a vendofs lien for unpaid purchase money.
But we are unable to perceive any analogy between the two
cases. The doctrine of vendor's lien applies only to sales of
real estate. The consolidation of the stock and property of
several corporations into one was not a sale; and it did not
affect real estate only, but included franchises and personal
property. Green County v. Conness, 109 U. S. 104.
4. The remaining question is whether the holders of the equipment bonds have acquired any lien under the provisions of the
mortgage executed in 1867 by the consolidated company of all
its franchises and property, to secure the payment of new
bonds'to be issued by that company.
It-is true that. the object of that mortgage, as appears by its
recitals, was that the whole of the debts of the consolidated
company, including the debts of either of the companies-out
of which it had been formed, whether secured by mortgage,
or, as in the case of the equipment bonds, not secured at all,
"should be consolidated into one and the same mortgage debt,
upon equitable principles." The mortgage accordingly provided
that 813,300,000 of the new bonds should be retained, in order
"to retire, in such manner and upon such terms as the directors
of said company may from time to time prescribe," a like
amount of the earlier bonds.;
But that mortgage secured only bonds issued under it, and
those bonds were all to be payable in forty years from its date.
The directors were authorized to exchange such bonds for existing bonds, and it is possible that any holders of existing
bonds might have compelled such an exchange by seascnably
applying for it. But the company could not compel any bondholder to accept, as a substitute for the bonds which he held,
new bonds payable at a later period. The equipment bonds
were payable according to their terms in 1883, and the bonds
issued under the new mortgage would not be payable until

OCTOBER TER-M, 1884.
Syllabus.

1907. The holders of the equipment bonds might prefer to
hold without security their bonds payable in sixteen years,
rather than to take instead bonds secured by mortgage, payable twenty-four years later. They took no steps to obtain
such an exchange for more than eight years after the execution
of the mortgage of 1867, nor until after the institution of proceedings to foreclose the subsequent mortgage, executed by
the company in 1873, to secure the payment of a new issue of
bonds. The lien created by the latter mortgage took precedence of any claims which were not already secured by any
prior mortgage. When the whole property of the consolidated
company was sold under the decree of foreclosure of the mortgage of 1873, subject only to prior mortgages and liens,
the purchasers took the property free from all debts not so
secured.
The necessary c6nclusion is, that the property sold under the
decree bf foreclosure is not subject to any lien in favor of the
holders of the equipment bonds.
Decree reversed.

MACALESTER'S ADMINISTRATOR v. MARYLAND &
Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Argued April 15, 16, 188.-Decidcd May 4, 1FS5.

Under the statutes of Maryland of 1834, eh. 241, 1835, 'ch. 395, 1838, ch. 396,
and 1844, ch. 281, and the instruments executed pursuant to those statutes.
the tolls and revenues of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company are
mortgaged to the State of Maryland, to secure the repayment of money
lent by the State to the company, and the payment of dividends and interest on the stock subscribed for by the State ; subject, in the first place, to
the appropriation of so much of the tolls and revenues as is necessary to
keep the canal in repair, to provide the necessary supply of water, and
to pay the salaries of officers and annual expenses ; and, in the second place,
to a mortgage to trustees to secure the payment of certain bonds of the
company. And, t the suit in equity of the State and of such trustees, even

