OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Syllabus.

license taxes, it comes within the exact terms of the decision of
a majority of this court in Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769,
according to which the plaintiff in error.is remitted to the
remedy provided by the act of January 14, 1882, entitled "An
Act to prevent frauds upon the Commonwealth and the holders
of her securities in the collection and disbursement of revenues."

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
is, therefore,
Afflzned.
AIR. JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN adhere to the
views expressed in their dissenting opinions in Antoni v. Greenhow, but they agree that the principles announced by the
majority in that case, if applied to the present case, require an
affirmance of the judgment below.

EAST ALABAMXA RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOE exd en.
VISSCHER.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

31IDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABABLA.
Argued March 20, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.
Various owners of lands in Alabama granted to a railroad corporation of that
State, "and its assigns," in 1860, a right of way through the lands, to make
and run a railroad, the corporation having a franchise to do so and to take
tolls ; and it obtained a like right, as to other land, by statutory proceeding. It graded a parc of the,line. V., a judgment ckeditor of the corporation, in 1867, levied an execution on the right of .way, and it was sold to
V., and the sheriff deeded it to him, and be took possession of the road-bed.
In 1if0, he contracted with another railroad corporation to complete the
grading of the line of road for so much per mile, and, on being paid, to
transfer to it all his title to the franchise, right of way and property of
the old corporation. He completed the work, and was not paid in full,
but gave possession of the road, in 1871, to the corporation, and its franchises and road and property passed, In 1880, to another corporation, the
defendant, against whom V. brought an action of ejectment, to recover the
road-bed: Held,

EAST ALABAMA RAILWAY COMPANY v: DOE. A-11
Opinion of the Court.
(1.) The xight of way could not be sold on execution, or otherwise, toa purchaser who did not own the franchise;
(2.) There was 3iothing in 'th%.contract to estop the, defendant from dihputing,
the right of V. to recover in ejectment, on the strength of his title;
t3.) Y. could not recover.

This was an action of ejectment- , The facts which-make the
case are stated in the 'opinion of the court.
Mr. Edward Pattemon and Mfr. H.
in error.

. Sempke for plaintiff

A1r. John T. Aforgan and Xr. Samuel F. Rice for defendants in error,

M-. Justice BLATCHFO Rn delivered the opinion of*the. court.
In November, 1880, the defendants in error brought an action
of ejectment, in th6 Circuit Court of Chambers County, Ala,
bama, against the East AlabamaRailway Company, to recover.
premises described in the complaint as follows: "A certain
tract or parcel'of land, being the railroad bed of the railroad
formerly known and called the East Alabama and Cincinnati
Railroad, from Lafayette to, the county line of Lee County,
together with all-the land contiguous to said roAd-bed, on each
side thereof, -to .the distance of 75 feet from the centre thereof,
said railroad being now known and called as the East Alabama
Railway, with the appurtenances, situate in the county of
Chambers aforesaid." Lafayette is in Chambers County, and
Lee County lies south of Chambers. The.suit ,was. duly' removed by the company into, the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama. It wa tried before
a jury, in December, 1881, on a suggestion thattbe company
had been in adverse possession of the premises for more than
three years before the bringing of the suit, and'had made permanent and valuable improvements by building a railroad
thereon, and on the plea of not guilty. The jury found for
the plaintiffs "for all the property described in the complaint,"
and assessed their damages at $3,963.40, and there was a judgment accordingly. The company brings a writ of error.
The bill of exceptions sets forth all the evidence in the cause.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

The following are all the facts which it is needful- to state: The
Lafayette Branch Railroad Cbmpany was incorporated by,the
Legislature of Alabama, February 7,1848,to construct a railroad
from Lafayette to intersect or connect with the Montgomery
and West Point Railroad at some suitable point between Chehaw and West Point. By -an amendatory act of April 9,
1854, the company was authorized to extend its road beyond
Lafayette in the direction of the Tennessee River, and to connect the same with any railroad built, or being built, or to be
built, so as to connect with some point on the Tennessee River.
By an amendatory act of January 25, 1860, its name was
changed to the Opelika and Oxford Railroad Company, and it
was authorized to connect its road with the Alabama and Tennessee River Railroad at or near Oxford, Calhoun County.
The companies were successively organized. In 1861 one
Richards was elected president. The Opelika and Oxford Company acquired the right of way through the lands of all the
,proprietors of the soil, from a point on the Montgomery- and
West Point Railroad, about two miles northerly from Opelika,
in Lee County, tt Lafayette, by deeds from all the proprietors
(save in one case). The deeds, except in the description of the
land through which the road was to pass, were all in the form
,of the following one:
"fary F. cLemore to 0pelika and Oxford R. 1R. Co.
ALABAMA, Chambers County :
This indenture, made this 31st day of August, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty, between Mary
McLemore, of Chambers County, of the one part, and the
Opelika & Oxfor R. R. Company, of the- other part, witnesseth : That the said Mary F. McLemore, for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar to her in hand paid ai and
before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, doth give, grant, bargain,
and sell unto the said railroad company, and their successors
and assigns, the right of -way over which to pass at all times
by themselves, directors, officers, agents, hirelings, and servants,
in any manner they may think proper, and particularly for the

EAST ALABAMA RAILVAY COMPANY v. DOE.

013

Qpinion of the Court.

purpose of running, erecting, and establishing thereon a railroad
with requisite number of tracks; and to this end the limit of
said right of way shall extend in width lifty feet on ea~li
side of the slope stake of the right of way of the said railroad
when completed, and to extend in length through the whole
tract of land owned and claimed by said Mary F. McLemore,
and known as the north half of section 23, township 22, of'
range 26, situated,. lying, and being in Chambers County, adjoining lands of James F. Dowdell, Evan G. Richards, and
Nolan X. Wright, and running in such direction through said
tract of land as the said Opelika & Oxford Railroad Company,
by their engineers, shall think best suited for the purpose of
locating and establishing their works; and connected with the
said right of way, the said company shall have the right to cfit
•down and remove all such trees, underwood, and growth, and
timber on each side of said road as would, by falling on or
striking the same, injure the rails or other parts of said road,
together with all and singular the rights, 'members, and appurtenances to the said strip, tract; or parcel of land being, belonging, or in any wise .appertaining, and, more especially, the
right of way over the same; to have and to hold the same
unto the said Opelika & Oxford R. R. Company, their sue-,
cessors and assigns, to their own proper use, benefit, and behoof forever, in fee-simple; upon condition, and it is expressly
understood, that should the said railroad contemplated as aforesaid be not located and established on and along said strip,
parcel, or tract of land .described in the above and foregoing
indenture, then said indenture is to be wholly null and void
and of no effect; and the said Mary F. McLemore, her heirs
and assigns, will warrant and defend the title thereof unto the
Opelika & Oxford Railroad Company, their successors and assigns, against the claims of all persons whatsoever. In witness
whereof the said Mary F. XcLemore hath hereunto set herhand and seal the day and year first above written.
-

MAny F. McLmtoio."
As to the excepted case, which related to a section of land,
one mile square, in Chambers County, through which the road-

344

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

bed sued for runs in that county, the company caused the same
character of rights and right of way through that section of
land, s was conveyed by the deeds referred to, to be condemned for its use under statute authority, and the sum assessed was finally paid to the owner. In 1860, the company
employed engineers, who laid out and staked off the full right
of way conveyed through all Qf the lands, and cut out the
width through woods; and it made contracts with contractors
for the grading and culverting of a railroad along the right of
way, who built for it a great deal of such grading and culverting; and all the work done was done on the right of way thus
staked out, but no other work was done on it except such culverting and grading, and this was not continuous through the
whole line in Chambers County sued for, but there were several intervals where no work of grading and culverting was
done; and the company was in the undisturbed possession of
the whole of the right of way.
The company became embarrassed for want of means during the war, and ceased, before July, 1861, to do any work on
the line, leaving it incomplete as to grading and culverting,
and no work was done by it afterwards on the line. Richards,
as late as 1863, removed, at a small expense to himself individually, some logs which had lodged in one of the culverts, to
save the culvert, and grading from injury, and he looked over the
work from time to time. No meeting of the directors or
stockholders was held after July, 1861, and no corporate act
was done by either after that date. The company was without means to prosecute thd building of the road any further.
One Lockett and the firm of D. W. & J. G. Visscber were
contractors, to whom the company was indebted for work on
the line. iLockett recovered one'judgment and the Visschers
another against the company, October 26, 1866, in a court of
the State, by service of process on Richards, as president, the,
former for $14,457.21, and the latter for $12,383.83. An execution was issued on each judgment to the sheriff of Chambers
County, November 7, 1866, and levied on that day, according
to the return on each*writ, on a house and lot, and also on "the
right of way to the Opelika and Oxford Railroad, so far as the

EAST ALABAMA RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOE.

35

Opinion of the Court.
right of way has been obtained, and all the appurtenances belonging to said railroad company, from Lafayette to the edge
of .-.
ee County, and also the surveying instruments belonging
to said compay." The plaintiffs' attorney stopp~ed i)roceedings
on those executions on the 12th of April, 1867. A second execution was issued on each judgment to said sheriff, May S, 1867,
and levied on that day, under the Lockett executioih, according
to the return thereon, on a house and lot, and also on "the
right of way to the Opelika and Oxford Railroad, so far as the
right of way has been obtained, to the edge of Lee County,
and also all the surveying instruments belonging to said company;" and under the other execution, according to the return
thereon, on the same property, omitting the words "the right
of way has been obtained, to." After a sale, the sheriff executed the following deed to the purchasers:
"This indenture, made and entered into this 3d day of June,
1S67, between R. J. Kellam, sheriff of the County of Chambers,
in the State of Alabama, of the one part, and D. W. & J. G.
Visscher and A. L. Woodward, of the other part, witnesseth:
That whereas, on the 26th day of October, 1866, a judgment
was duly rendered in the Circuit Court for the County of Chain-.
bers, in the State aforesaid, at the fall term of the said Court,
for the sum of twelve thousand three hundred and eighty-three
dollars, and costs, in favor of Abner M. Lockett, and one in
favor of D. W. & J. G. Visscher, for fourteen thousand four hundred and fifty-seven dollars and twenty-one cents, and against
the Opelika and Oxford Railroad Company, on which said
judgments there was issued by the clerk of the Circuit Court
for said county, on the 8th day of May, I867, certain writs of
fterifacias in favor of said Abner M. Lockett and D. W. & J.
G. Visscher, and against the said railroad company, directed
to any sheriff of the State of Alabama, whereby such sheriff
was directed to levy of the estate, &c., of said railroad company, and make the said sum of twenty-six thousand seven
hundred and fifty-one T-4 dollars, besides costs, and which said
writ was, on the Sth day of May, 1867, placed in the hands of
the said R. J. Kellam, as sheriff of'said County of Chambers,

346.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of its levy and execution; and whereas said
R. J. Kellam, as sheriff as aforesaid, after the said writ had
come into his hands, and while the same was in full force, did,
on the 8th day of May, 1867, levy the same on the following
tract or lot of land, as the property of- the said railroad company, to wit: The right of way to Opelika and Oxford Railroad -Company, so far as the right of way has been obtained,
from Lafayette, to the line of Lee County, and all the appurtenance from Lafayette to the line of Lee County, lying and
being in said County of Chambers; and whereas the said R.
J. Kellam, as sheriff as aforesaid, after having duly advertised
the said tract of land or railroad bed for sale in the mode prescribed by law, did, in accordance with said advertisement, on
the 3d day of June, 1867, at the court-house, in the town of
Lafayette,. proceed to sell the same, under and by virtue of
said writ of fierifacias, and the said D. W. & J. G. Visscher
and A. L. Woodward, having bid for the said land or railroad
bed, then and there selling as aforesaid, the sum of five hundred dollars, and it being the highest and best bid that could
then and there be got for the same, he, the said sheriff, did
therefore sell and cry off the tract of land or railroad bed, to
the said D. W. & J. G. Yisscher and A. L. Woodward. Now,
therefore, in consideration of the premises, the said party of
the first part, as sheriff of the said County of Chambers, has
and does hereby bargain and sell, alien and convey, unto said
D. W. & J. G. Visscher andA. L. Woodward, the said tract
of land or railroad bed, to wit, the right to the Opelika and
Oxford Railroad, so far as the right of way has been obtained,
from Lafayette to the edge of Lee County, and all the appurtenances belonging to said road from Lafayette to the line of
Lee County, to have and to hold the aforesaid premises and
land, together with all and singular [its] appurtenances thereunto belonging, to the said Opelika and Oxford Railroad Company, and to their heirs and assigns, forever. And sid party
of the first part, as sheriff as aforesaid, does covenant with the
said party of the second part that he, as sheriff as aforesaid,
to said party of the second
will WOarrant the title of said Dart so far only as he by virtue of his office is authorized to

EAST ALABAMA RAIL WAY COMPANY v. DOE.

347

Opinion of the Court

do; but it is expressly understood that said -h . Kellai,
sheriff, is in no event' to be individually liable for anything.
herein contained.
In testimony, whereof, the said party of the first part has
signed, sealed, and delivered this deed on the day it bears date.
ROBERT J. K&LLAM,
Shemif of CQpwbers County, Alabama."
After the sheriff's sale Richards abandoned or turned over
to the purchasers the line of culverting ox grading, as far as he
could do so, that is, he exercised no further authority over it,
and the Opelika and Oxford Railroad Company made no further claim to it. On the 6th of April, 1870, D. W. and -. G.
Visscher entered into a written contract with the Eufaula,
Opelika, Oxford and Gntersville Railroad Company, which'
was signed on behalf of that company by one Pennington, as
its president, and was recognized and acted on by it. Its name.
.was afterwards changed to the East Alabama and Cincinnati
Railroad Company. The two companies .were one and the
same corporation, chartered by Alabama to build a railroad fromEufaula to Guntersville via Opelika and Oxford. In the fall
before the contract was entered into; D. W. Yisscher was invited by Pennington to see him as to whether Pennington's
company could not arrange to purchase for its line Visscher's
grading and tight of way from said junction to Lafayette.
Pennington told Yisscher he could build by the side of Vissc]esline, butwould like to purchase it; and they agreed that'
the Visschers should go to work completing the grading, and
that Pennington's company wo-ild furnish the means to pay
for the work as irprogressed. The work was begun, with the
verbal understanding that the written contract should be executed, and it went on till that contract was executed, and then
under the contract till the Visschers completed it to Lafayette,
over the right of way or line described in the deeds therefor,
and, the company accepted'it as don0 according to the contract,
about. May 3, 1871.
By tbetermsof the contract it was agreed that the Visschers
should "form, prepare and finish the clearing and grdbbing

0-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

grading, masonry, trestle-work, cattle-guards, road and farm
crossings, track laying, including switches, frogs and turn-outs,
three warehouses, three water-tanks, with fixtures complete,
including the furnishing of materials and all other things requisite and necessary to complete the road ready for the running
of trains, except the iron materials which go into the superstructure of the road," from Opelika, or two miles north thereof, as the company should elect and designate, for a distance
of twenty miles, to a point beyond Lafayette. The contract
specified the terms of compensation, and provided that on
the completion of the twenty miles, and the payment of the
amount of the contract, D. W. Yisscher should transfer to the
company "all right and title vested in him to all franchises,
right of way or other property belonging to, or pertaining to.
the said road, under the old organization known as the Opelika
and Oxford R. R." The Visschers were not. paid the full
amount due to them for the work done under the con4 ract, al.
claimed that there was due to them more than $100,000.
-Under a,decree of sale made in a suit for the foreclosure of
a. mortgge nmade by the East Alabama and Cincinnati Railroad Company, Edward Livingston and Richard Irvin, Jr.,
purchased, and received from the proper officer, on the 19th of
April, 1880, a deed of the "entire corporate property of, or
belonging to, the East Alabama and Cincinnati Railroad Cornpany, used for railway purposes, and all and singular the entire
railroad of said company, extending from Eufaula, Alabama,
to Guntersville, Alabama, being about two hundred and twenty
miles in length, at present unfinished, its entire franchises and
privileges, held and acquired, together with the right of way,
road-bed, road, . . . and all its ways and rights of way,"
&c. The plaintiff in error became t corporation, under the
laws of Alabama, on the 2Sth of May, 1880, and, on the 13th
of July, 1880, Livingston and Irvin conveyed to it the property so deeded to them, by the same description.
At the trial, the plaintiffs offered in evidence transcripts of
the proceedings as to the said judgments, executions, levies,
sale, and sheriff's deed. The defendant objected to each of
them "as illegal and irrelevant evidence, and also because they

EAST 1-LABAk[A RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOE.

349

Opinion of the Court.

tended to show. the sale under execution and conveyance by
the sheriff of an easement alone, not the subject of an ejectment." The court overruled each of the objections and allowed
each of the transcripts to be read in evidence, and the defend..
ant excepted separately to each of,the rulings.
After the close of the testimony the court charged the jury
that if they believed from the evidence that the company before named entered into the written contract with the Visschers,and under that contract was let into the possession by them 6f
the route described in the deeds from MclLemore and others,
and failed to perform its part of, the contract, and the Visschers
did perform it so far as permitted by the corporation to do so,
and the corporation failed to make the full payments'due to
the Yisschers under the contract, the corporation, and all persons claiming under it, were estopped from setting up any title
in the premiies sued for adverse to the Visschers, and their
possession under the contract was not adverse.
The court also charged the jury that the property conveyed
by the 'deed of the sheriff was the subject of levy and sale
under execution, and that the bbjection made by the defendant.
that it was only an easement, and not the subject of a levy and
sale under execution, was not well founded.
To each of these charges the defendant excepted There
.were exceptions-to other instructions, and to refusals to charge
in accordance with requests made by the defendant; but -the
questions which we regard as decisive of the case are raised by
those already mentioned.
The right which the Opelika and Oxford Company obtained
under the deeds from McLemore and others (aid the right btained bycondemnation is set forth as of the same character)
was described in the deeds as "the right of way over - hich to
pass at all times, by themselves, directors, officers, agents, hirelings and servants, in any manner they may think proper, and
particularly for the purpose of running, erecting and 'establish,
ing thereon a railroad with requisite number of tracks;" and
it was provided that, "to this end, the limit of said right .of
way shall extend in width fifty feet on each side of the slope
stake of the right of way of the said railroad when completed,

OCTOBER TERM,

18.84.

Opinion of the Court.

and to extend in length through the whole tract of land owned
and claimed" by the grantor, describing it, "and running in such
direction through said tract of land" as the company, by its
engineers, should think best suited for the purpose of locating
and establishing its works. The grantor conveyed this to the
company and its successors and assigns. The deed also provided, that "connected with the said right of way, the said
company shall have the right to cut down and remove all such
trees, underwood and growth and timber, on each side of said
road, as would, by falling on or striking the same, injure the rails
or.other parts of said road, together with all and singular the
rights, members and appurtenances to the said strip, tract or
parcel of land being, belonging, or in anywise appertaining,
and more especially the right of way over the same." The
habendum was, to have and to hold the same to the company,
its successors and assigns, to its "own proper use, benefit and
behoof forever, in fee simple." Then followed the further
provision, that should the contemplated railroad not be located
and established on and along the strip, parcel or tract of land
described in th6 deed, the deed should be wholly null and void
and of no effect.
The right granted was merely a right of way for a railroad.
It was granted to an existing corporation, which had a
franchise. The grant to the "assigns" of the corporation cannot be construed as extending to any assigns except one who
should be the assignee of its franchise to establish and run a
railroad. INor did the mention of rights, members and appurtenances belonging and alpertaining to the strip of land,
or the use of the words "forever, in fee simple," enlarge what
was otherwise the limited character of the grant. No fee in
the. land was conveyed, nor anyestate which was capable of
being sold on execution on a judgment at law, or separate
from the franchise to make and own and run a railroad. The
corporation could not have made a voluntary conveyance of
the right of way, severed from its franchise. What it acquired
was merely an easement in the land, to enable it to discharge
its function of making and maintaining a public highway, the
fee of the soil remaining in the grantor. By the terms of the

EAST ALABAMA R AILWAY COMPANY v. DOE.

351

Opinion of the Court.
charter of the Lafayette Branch Company it was given the
power to purchase, hold, lease, sell and convey real, personal and mixed property, so far as should be necessary for the
purposes mentioned in the act, namely, to construct and
operate the specific railroad authorized therein, with power to
"lay and collect toll from all persons, property, merchandise
or. other commodities transported thereon." By the terms 6f
its charter, therefore, in connection with the terms of the deeds
of the right of way, that right was indissolubly linked to the
franchise, and to the purpose of the existence of the.corporation, and'to its public functions, so long as they shopld exist.
It would violate not only the expressed intention of the grantors
in the leeds, but the manifest purpose of the Legislature of
Alabama, to permit a private person to seize and appropriate
th.e right of way, by the purchase of anything at a judicial
sale, apart from the franchise on which the right of way was
dependent. The sherifs deed purported to convey; in words,
"the said tract of land or railroad bed, to wvit, the right of the
Opelika & Oxford Railroad, so far as the right of way has been
.obtained, from Lafayette to the edge of Lee County, and all
the appurtenances belonging to said road -from Lafayette to
the line of Lee County." If the deed undertook to convey"
any land or kq or road-bed, it conveyed with it the right of
way.. The deed, In .eciting the levy, states that it was made
"on the following tract o -lot. Of land, as the property of- the
said railroad company, to wit; the right of way," &c., and states
that that was what was sold. It w'as not lawful for the purchasers to have a deed of the right of way, and if they obtained a deed of anything, the right of way was included, or
else they received nothing beyond, perhaps, a right to carry
away from the land what the company had put upon it.
The bill of exceptions states that a like right of way through
the lands of, the proprietors of the soil was obtained by deed,
in Lee County,. from a point about two miles north of Opelika
to the south line of Chambers County; and that, under executions issued to .Lee County on the same judgments, there were.
levies made on the right of. way of the company so far as
the same had been, obtained by it up the line of Chambers

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

-

County, and a sale by the sheriff of Lee County of what was so
levied on, to the same persons who bought at the sale in Chambers County. But, at the sale in Lee County a different pur-.
chaser might have bought the right of way, and there would
then have been a division of the ownership of the line of the
road, created as a unit and intended to remain such, resulting
in a different control, with no franchise to collect toll. No
such thing could be done.
The policy of the State of Alabama on this subject is indicated.by the provisions of her Constitutions of 1865, Art. 1,
§ 25, of 1867, Art. i, § 25,and of.1875, Art. 1, § 24: "That
private property shall not be taken or applied for public use,
unless just compensation be made therefor; nor shall private
property be taken for private use, or for the use of corporations other than municipal, without the consent of the owner;
Provided, however, That laws may be made securing to persons
or corporations the right of way over the lands of other persons
or corporations;" "but just compensation shall, in such cages,
be first made to the owner." In Alabama & Florida Railroad Co. v. Burkett, 42 Ala. 83, it was held that, under this provision, a railroad company acquired no absolute title to land in
fee simple, but only a right to use for its purposes. Nor is a
right of way such as may be thus secured, or such as was
granted by deed in the present case, within the meaning of the
provision of the Code of Alabama, that executions may be
levied on real property in which the defendant -" has a vested
legal interest, in possession, reversion or remainder, whether
lie has the entire estate, or is entitled to it in common with
others." Code of 1852, § 2455 ; Code of 1867, §,287.1 ; Code -of
1876, § 3209.
We are not referred to any decision of the Supreme Court
of Alabama made before the rights involved in this suit arose,
or 'before this suit was brought, determining the questions here
involved. Two unreported cases are cited by the defendants
in error: Tennessee & Coosa Railroad Co. v. East Alabama
Railway Co., decided at December Term, 1883; and Hooper v.
Columbus & Western Railway Co., decided at Deceniber Term,
1884. To these cases, if they were in point, the doctrine al.

EAST ALABAMA RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOE.

353

Opinioii of the Court.
ways held by this court, and so emphatically repeated in
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, would be applicable, namely,
that the courts of the United States, in the administration of
State laws in cases between citizens of different States, "have
an independent jurisdiction co-ordinate with, and not subordinate to, that of the State courts, and are bojind to exercise
their own judgment as to the meaning and effect of those
laws;" and that when contracts and transactions have been
entered into, and rights have accrued thereon, in the absence of
any authoritative decision by the State courts, the courts of
the United .States "properly claim the right to adopt their own
interpretation of the law applicable to the case, although a
different interpretation may be adopted by the State courts
after such rights have accrued."
But the cases cited are not int point. In the first one a railroad corporation, having a franchise, and claiming the legal
title and ownership of rights of way, and of a line of railroad,
which was being operated by the defendant, another railroad
corporation, brought ejectment to recover the property. The
defendant corporation had a junior franchise, and claimed to
have purchased the entire property sued for,- under a title
emanating from the plaintiff. It was heId that the plaintiff
could recover. In the second case an individual having the
legal title to a strip of land through which a railroad com-.
pany had been permitted by him to construct its road- was
held to be entitled to recover .the .land in ejectment from the
company, which had failea to pay him for the right of way.
This court decided, in Gue ' . Tidezuater Canal-Co., 24 How.
257, that a corporate franchise to take tolls on a canal could
not be seized and sold under a fierfacias,unless authorized by
a statute of the State which granted the act of incorporation;
and that neither the lands nor the works essential to the enjoyment of.the franchise could be separated from it and sold under
such a writ, so as to destroy or impair the value of the fran..
chise. This decision was put on the ground, that the frahhise
or right to take toll on boats going through the canal would
not pass to the purchaser under the execution on a judgment at
law against the corporation, because it was an incorporeal
vow,- cxiv-23

OCTOBER TERM,. 188.
Opinion of the Court.

hereditament, and, upon the settled principles of the common
law, could not be seized on a Jieri faias; and was made in a
case where the corporation owned in fee the real estate, toll
houses, canal locks and wharf seized, all of which were necessary for the uses and working of the canal. But, in the view
we have taken, as before stated, of the facts of this case, it
is not necessary to discuss the general question as to the right
to levy an execution at law on property owned by a railroad
company in fee.
It is contended for the plaintiffs that the defendant is estopped
from denying that they were seized in fee of the property sued
for, on the ground that Richards, after the sheriff's sale, abandoned or turned over to the Visschers the line of culverting
and grading, as far as he could do so, that is, he exercised no
further authority over it, and the Opelika and Oxford Company
made no further claim to it; that the Visschers then made the
written contract with the new railroad company to construct
the superstructure 6f the road, except as to the iron materials,
for the twenty miles from in or two miles north of Opelika to
a point beyond Lafayette, for a specified compensation; and
that the contract provided that on the completion of the twenty
miles, and the payment of the amount agreed, Visscher should
transfer to the company "all right and title vested in him to
all franchises, right of way or other property belonging to or
pertaining to the said road under the old organization known
as the Opelika & Oxford R. R." The bill of exceptions states
that the defendant offered evidence tending to show that the
East Alabama and Cincinnati Railroad Company was in possession of the property sued for from the time the Visschers
ceased their work on it, as well as of the remainder of its line
of railroad, fill assignees in bankruptcy took possession of it,
from whom it passed to purchasers from them, and then a receiver in the foreclosure suit took possession of it, and held it
till it was sold to the persons who conveyed it to the defendant. The Visschers appear not to have been in possession from
the time they ceased work. They yielded possession, but not
under any provision in the contract. As to the new work done
by the Visschers they became merely creditors, out of posses-

THE BELGENLAND.
Syllabus.

sion, with such rights as the law gave them, but certainly with
no right to eject the company or its successors or grantees.
They were to construct twenty miles of road for $14,750 per
mile. When all was done and paid for they were fo transfer
what right they had to the road under the Opelika and Oxford
organization. But they yielded np possession of that with the
new work. As to what they obtained by the sheriff's sale and
deed, they acquired nothing thereby, formerly belonging to the
Opelika and Oxford company, tnder the name of right of way,
granted to or acquired by that company, which was capable of
being conveyed by them; and as to anything else, their right did
not lie in ejectment. Whether they were vendors or creditors
in respect to what they so agreed to transfer, it is not necessary
or proper to determine in this suit. There was nothing in what
occurred between the parties, or in the contract, or in the transactions under it, which estopped the defendant from disputing
the right of the plaintiffs to recover in 'ejectment on the
strength of their title.
It follows, from these views, that the Circuit Court erred in
its first and third charges to the jury, and, as this conclusion
goes to show that the plaintiffs, had no 'title on which they
could recover in ejectment, it becomes unnecessary to consider
any of the other questions raised by the defendant.
1he judgment is reversed, and-the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court,with a direction to grant a new trial..

THE BELGENLAND.
APPEAL mom TiE cIRcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January16, 1885.-Decided April 13,1885.

A colliton on the high seas between vessels of different nationalities is prima
facie a proper subject of inquiry in any court of Admiralty which first obtains jurisdiction.
Th Courts of the United States in Admiralty may, in their discretion, take
jurisdiction over a collision on the high seas between two foleign vessels.

