OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

through 21r. Justice Gray, "that at the present day imprisonment in a state prison or penitentiary, with or without hard
labor, is an infamous punishment."
That case is decisive of this, and the order appealed from
must be

PACIFIC POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY
v. O'CO:NNOR.
ERROR

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1282. Submitted November 12, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

A remittitur, in a judgment on a verdict, of all sums in excess of $5000,
made on the day following entry of the judgment, on motion of plaintiff's
counsel, in the absence of defendant or his counsel, is no abuse of the
discretion of the court.

MOTION TO DISISS for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion.
.L'. D. . .De1lkn

The case is

for the motion.

.A&. Andrew TYesley .ent opposing.
MR. CHIEF JuSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action to recover damages for personal injuries,
which resulted, August 29th, 1888, in a verdict for $5500.
Upon the return of the verdict the court directed, as minuted
by the clerk, judgment to be entered thereon. On the 30th
day of August the plaintiff below, by his counsel, asked leave
in open court to remit the sum of $500, which was granted,
and judgment rendered for $5000 and costs, "and now so
appears of record."
Subsequently the defendant below moved to set aside the
allowance of the remittitur and to correct the judgment,
which motion was denied by the court, and defendant ex-

CLARK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

cepted, and by bill of exceptions brought the courts direction
to the clerk of August 29th into the record, and the fact that
the judgment of August 30th was rendered in the absence of
defendant and his counsel.
A writ of error having been subsequently prosecuted to
reverse the judgment, defendant in error moves to dismiss it
for want of jurisdiction.
We cannot hold upon this record the action of the Circuit
Court to have been in abuse of its discretion, and as the judgment as it stands is for $5000 only, the motion to dismiss must
be granted. Ala. Gold 1fe Ins. Go. v. 1richols, 109 U. S.
232; First-at. Bank of Omah v. Redick, 110 U. S. 224:;
T~tompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694.
Vrit of error dismissed.

CLARK v. COMMOIWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
SA
A

.

SAVLE.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF QUARTER SESSIONS OF THE PEACE FOR
THE COUNTY OF ALLEGHANY, STATE

OF PENNSYLVA.NIA.

Nos. 1189,1190. Argued November 5,1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

The petition for a writ of error forms no part of the record of the court
below.
In error to a state court, to review one of its judgments, this court acts
only upon the record of the court below, and, in order to give this court
jurisdiction it is essential that the record should disclose, not only that
the alleged right, privilege or immunity, was set up and claimed in the
court below, but that the decision of that court was against the right so
set up or claimed.
These records do not disclose whether the refusal of the court below to
give the instructions requested amounted to a denial of the claim of the
plaintiff in error to immunity, and the writs of error are therefore
dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

31fr. TV. I. Bird for plaintiff in error.

