DANVILLE v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

leave first obtained from the'Federal court, he could have been
proceeded against for contempt in having parted with 'the
possession of goods in the custody of that court. Bennett
asked leave to intervene in the suit in the Federal court, and
such leave was granted; but he declined to exercise the privilege accorded to him. He moved, at the same time, to
dissolve the attachment, and that motion was denied; the
Federal court thereby plainly indicating to the marshal a purpose to hold the property until it had adjudicated Bennett's
claim. If Bennett had intervened in the suit in the Federal
court, and if that court had dismissed his intervention, or
adjudged his claim to be subordinate to that of Lapp &
Flershem under their attachment, he could have prosecuted an
appeal to this court. Gumrbl v. Pitkin,113 U. S. 545.
A marshal who levies an attachment from a Circuit Court
of the United States in a suit of which it has complete jurisdiction, upon goods subject at the time to such attachment,
is not, I think, liable in trover and conversion for their value
upon his refusal, in the absence of any direction of the court
under whose writ they were seized, to surrender possession;
especially to one whose right, if any, accrued subsequently to
his levy. To hold him, under such circumstances, liable to a
suit in a state court for damages, is to invite those conflicts
between courts of different jurisdictions and their respective
officers, which the former decisions of this court have sought
to prevent.

DANVILLE v. BROWN.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A. CASE PENDING IN THIS COURT ON APPEAL
FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 1100.

Submitted November 26, 1888. - Decided December 3, 188.

In computing the "sixty days after the rendition of judgment," allowed by
Rev. Stat. § 1007 to a "partyappealing from a judgment of a Circuit Court

to give the security required by law, Sundays are excluded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
MoTiON

to vacate a supersedeas.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
.M'..I'ankP. Clark for the motion.
_fr. George C. 0abell and Mr. H. H. Marshall opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a motion to vacate a supersedeas, "for the reason
that the bond was not filed within the time prescribed by
statute."
The decree was entered March 29th, 1888, and concludes as
follows: "And the defendant, the town of Danville, prays
an appeal from the aforesaid decree in open court, and it is
allowed, and if a supersedeas is desired the amount of the
bond is fixed at one hundred thousand dollars." On the 31st
of May the appeal bond of the town in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars was duly approved by the circuit judge,
and citation signed; but the bond was not filed in the clerl's
office until June 1st.
Appeals from the Circuit Courts are "subject to the same
rules, regulations, and restrictions as are or may be prescribed
in law in cases of writs of error." Rev. Stat. § 1012.
Section 1007 of the Revised Statutes reads thus: "In any
case where a writ of error may be a supersedeas, the defendant
may obtain such supersedeas by serving the writ or [of] error,
by lodging a copy thereof for the adverse party in the clerk's
office, where the record remains, within sixty days, Sundays
exclusive, after the rendering of the judgment complained of,
and giving the security required by law on the issuing of the
citation. But if he desires to stay process on the judgment,
he may, having served his writ of error as aforesaid, gve the
security required by law within sixty days after the rendition
of such judgment, or afterward, with the permission of a
justice or judge of the appellate court."
The bond here was filed within sixty days, excluding Sundays, and the appeal was thereby perfected; but it is contended
that the exclusion of Sundays by the words of the statute

DANVILLE v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

applies only to the lodging of the copy of the writ of error or
the taking of the appeal, and not to the giving of security to
operate as a supersedeas. We do not think so. The service
of the writ of error must be within sixty days, "Sundays exclusive;" and the party appealing may, "having served his
writ of error as aforesaid," give the security required by law
to stay process upon the judgment "within sixty days" after
the rendition of such judgment, or afterward, by special permission. This can only mean that he may give the security
and so obtain the supersedeas within the same sixty days
which is allowed him to serve the writ, or otherwise he would
not have the time specifically allowed by the statute for such
service.
At common law Sunday was dies non juridious, and no
strictly judicial act could be performed upon that day; and
this was recognized in the Judiciary Act, which expressly
excluded Sundays in the computation of the ten days within
which a supersedeas could be obtained. 1 Stat. c. 20, §§ 22,
23, pp. 84, 85.
By the 11th section of the act of June 1, 1872, 17 Stat. 198,
c. 155, it was provided "that any party or person desiring to
have any judgment, decree, or order of any District or Circuit
Court reviewed on writ of error or appeal, and to stay proceedings thereon during the pendency of such writ of error or
appeal, may give the security required by law therefor within
sixty days after the rendition of such judgment, decree, or
order, or afterward with the permission of a justice or judge
of the said appellate court." This enlarged the ten days to
sixty, and permitted security to be given afterward, provided,
however, that the writ had been served or appeal taken within
the sixty days. .Kitchen v. Randolph, 93 U. S. 86. And
when these provisions were carried into the Revised Statutes
in § 1007, the words "Sundays exclusive" of the original
act, being re-enacted in the first clause of the section, became
clearly applicable to the second also.
As the bond was given in the amount specified in the decree,
and was approved and filed in time, the motion to vacate the
supersedeas will be
-Denied.

