OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

it is conceded, fully and unreservedly, that the defendant company is in fault on account of the manner of running its
trains, such as the high rate of speed and other careless matters mentioned by the court in its instructions, which should
justify the court in refusing to submit to the jury the question
whether the defendant company is relieved from the liability
incurred by it, by reason of the acts of the plaintiff showing
that, in some degree, he may not have been as careful as the
most cautious and prudent man would have been.
Instead of the course here pursued a due regard for the
respective functions of the court and the jury would seem to
demand that these questions should have been submitted to
the jury, accompanied by such instructions from the presiding
judge as would have secured a sound verdict. We think the
case is covered by that of Zane v. The IYorthern Central
Railway Co., ante, 91, in which the opinion of this court was
delivered by Mr. Justice Harlan, October 22, 1888.
We forbear to discuss the facts further at this time, as we
do not wish to prejudice the case before the jury, in the further proceedings which must be had.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with instructions to grant a new trial.

POLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC
I ST. LOUIS.

ASSOCIATION

OF

ERROR TO TIE CIRCIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA AIBA.
No. 43. Argued and submitted October 29, 1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

In Alabama, when a defendant pleads specially and generally, and the
special plea contains nothing of which the defendant cannot avail himself under the general issue, an error in sustaining a demurrer to the
special plea, as it works no injury, constitutes no ground for reversal.
In Alabama a written agreement between the parties may be read in evidence without proof of its execution, unless the execution is denied by
plea, verified by affidavit.
The agreement which formed the subject of controversy in this action

FOLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.

447

Statement of the Case.
related to a renewal of the existing contract of the plaintiff in error for
lighting certain streets in MNontgomery, and not to an enlargement of
that contract so as to include other streets; and being so construed, the
requisite renewal was effected by the acts of the parties referred to in
the opinion of the court, without a written contract, covering a fixed
period of time.
Covenants are to be considered dependent or independent, according to the
intention of the parties, to be deduced from the whole instrument; and
in this case the covenants of the plaintiff in error, to pay money for goods
sold and delivered, were independent of the covenants of the defendant
in error to transfer certificates of stock in a corporation.

Tins writ of error brought up for review a judgment in
favor of the Brush Electric Association of St. Louis, plaintiff
below, against the plaintiff in error for the sum of $6458.10.
Besides the common count for goods and merchandise sold
to the defendant, Pollak, the complaint contained a special
count based on a written agreement between the parties,
executed November 13, 1883. By the first article of that
agreement, Pollak agreed to pay to the plaintiff the sum of
$7942 as follows: "Seven thousand dollars in cash on the
execution of this agreement, and the sum of nine hundred
and forty-two dollars on the first day of January, 1884, in full
settlement and satisfaction of all claims and demands due by
Pollak & Co. and the Brush Electric Light and Power Company of Montgomery, Alabama, to the said Brush Electric
Association of St. Louis; and the Brush Electric Association
agrees to transfer or cause to be transferred to said Ignatius
Pollak, without recourse, all the shares now held by the said
Brush Electric Association and the Brush Electric Company
of Cleveland, Ohio, in the said Brush Electric Light and Power
Company of Montgomery, Alabama."
The remaining articles of the agreement were in these
words :
"Second. The said Brush Electric Association of St. Louis
agrees to furnish to the said Ignatius Pollak one number 8
dynamo-electric machine, one automatic dial for said machine,
and forty arc lainps of two thousand candle power each, of
different styles, for which the said Ignatius Pollak agrees to
pay to the said Brush Electric Association of St. Louis by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

first day of January, 1885, twelve per cent of the cost of said
machinery as per card rate hereto attached, signed by the
parties and made a.part of this agreement, which card rate is
agreed by the parties to be the cost of said machinery. This
twelve per cent, it is agreed by the parties, is to be considered
a rental of said machinery, dial and lamps for the term of
one year, and which are furnished to enable the said Ignatius
Pollak to comply with his contract with the city council of
Montgomery to light the streets of the city of Montgomery
with electric lights.
"Third. It is further agreed that in case the city council of
Montgomery shall conclude to adopt the Brush electric light
for the future lighting of the streets of the said city of Montgomery, Alabama, after the expiration of the time of the
present contract between said Pollak and Company and the
city council of Montgomery, that the said Ignatius Pollak
will pay to the said Brush Electric Association of St. Louis,
Missouri, by the first day of January, 1885, the cost of said
machinery, dial and lamps as fixed and ascertained by said
card rate hereto attached, and in that event the said Ignatius
Pollak is not to pay the said twelve per cent, said twelve
per cent being a separate and distinct arrangement, as a fair
rental for the use of said machinery, dial and lamps by the
said Ignatius Pollak and for the risk assumed by the Brush
Electric Association in furnishing the same to the said Ignatius Pollak in case the said city council of Montgomery shall
conclude not to continue lighting the streets of M ontgomery
with the Brush electric light after the expiration of their
present contdact with said Pollak & Co.
"Fourth. It is further understood and agreed that in case
the said city council of Montgomery shall not conclude to
continue lighting the streets of the said city of Montgomery
with the Brush electric light after the expiration of their
present contract with said Pollak & Co., the said Ignatius
Pollak shall deliver the said dynamo-electric machine, said
automatic dial, and said lamps by the first 'day of January,
1885, fully repaired and in good working order, to the said
Brush Electric Association of St. Louis, at Cleveland, Ohio,

POLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.

449

Statement of the Case.

or St. Louis, Missouri, as may be directed by the said Brush
Electric Association of St. Louis, and that the title and property in and to said machinery, dial and lamps shall be and
remain in the said Brush Electric Association of St. Louis,
until and unless the said Ignatius Pollak pays the cost of said
machinery, dial and lamps, as provided by this agreement, in
the third clause thereof.
"Fifth. It is further understood and agreed that the said Ignatius Pollak shall have the right to purchase from the said Brush
Electric Association of St. Louis any machinery and any pieces
and parts of machinery which may be necessary for repairing and keeping in working order the present machinery in
said city of Montgomery, and the machinery furnished to him
by this agreement, at the same rates at which such machinery
and pieces and parts of machinery are sold at the time to
other private consumers by the said Brush Electric Association of St. Louis."
There was appended to this agreement a stipulation, signed
by the parties, that the "delivery of said dynamo-electric
machine, dial and lamps on board the cars at said city of
Montgomery, consigned to the said Brush Electric Association of St. Louis, at Cleveland, Ohio, or St. Louis, M issouri,
as said Brush Electric Association may direct, costs of transportation prepaid, by the first day of Sanuary, 1885, shall be
considered and held a delivery by said Ignatius Pollak, as provided in the fifth clause of the aforegoing agreement."
The card rates attached to the above agreement, and referred
to in its second article, were these:
"ST. Louis, Mo., -Arov.13, 1883.
"Mr. Ig.Pollak, Montgomery, Ala.,
"'83.
Bought of the Brush Electric Association.
"Oct. 25. 30 No. 11 Lamps, 60 ...
........
.1600
6"
3 "
60 ..
........
.
360
2 "
2
"
50 ..
........
.
100
2"
17 "
60 ..
........
.
120
1 "
8 dynamo ...
.........
.. 3600
1 "
8 dial ...
...........
...
200
VOL. c=vm-29

6180"

OCTOBER- TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

At the time this agreement was made Pollak had a contract with the city of Montgomery for the lighting of its
streets, which expired I'Yovember 1, 1884. On the 4th of October, 1884, he addressed a communication to the city council,
referring to the fact that the contract between him and the
city "for twenty-three electric lights for street purposes"
would expire on the 1st of November, and asking prompt
action as to whether it would be renewed by the city, or
whether additional lights would be taken. He further said in
his communication: "Having incurred very heavy expense
in bringing extra machinery here, and having to pay a heavy
rental for the additional dynamo required for the city purposes,
it bec6mes absolutely necessary that your decision should be
rendered as early as possible, so that in the event of your
declension to renew the contract I may be able to take down,
pack and deliver the machinery at Cleveland, Ohio, within
the time stipulated with the parent company of the Brush
Electric Association." On the 6th of October, 1884, that
communication was referred by the city council to the gas
committee; and, on the 3d of November, 1884, the recommendation of the committee, "that the contract with Pollak
& Co. to furnish the city with twenty-three electric lights be
renewed for one year," was adopted by the council. At a
subsequent meeting of that body, held January 19, 1885, it
was resolved that, "renewing the contract for. the electric
light, the mayor is authorized and instructed to make the contract with the Brush Electric Light and Power Company."
Of that company Pollak was president, and seemed to have
exclusive control and direction of its business, including the
property and machinery connected therewith. It was in
proof that the dynamo and machinery sued for in this action
were received by the defendant and used by him in performing his contract; that, at the time of the trial below, they
were in use at the works of the last-named corporation, which
had furnished the electric light during the existence of the
contract between the city and Pollak; and that the city continued after November 1, 1884, to make monthly payments to
the defendant.

POLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.

451

Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

It was also in proof that there were about eighty miles of
streets and more than one hundred different streets within the
corporate limits of Montgomery, and that only a small portion
of the city was ever lighted by the Brush electric light; that
Commerce street and Dexter avenue were the only thoroughfares or streets that were thus lighted continuously all the way
from end to end; that only twenty-three electric lights or
lamps in all were or ever had been used or employed in the
city for street lighting purposes; that the remainder of the
lights not used on Commerce street and Dexter avenue were
employed on parts of certain streets and were confined within
a narrow compass, mainly in the business centre of the city;
that no greater number of lights or lamps were employed or
contracted for, at any time, in the city for street lighting purposes than were used in the year 1884 up to the 1st of November of that year; that the area or territory covered with these
lights had not in any manner been enlarged; and that there
were a great variety of electric lights other than the Brush
electric light serviceable for lighting streets, and were in use
in various cities of the United States.
It was further proven by a witness that the legislature of
Alabama convened in .ontgomery on the 11th of November,
1884, remaining in session before its recess, during the balance7
of that month and a part of the succeeding month; that in the
absence of any contract between the city and the defendant
after the 1st day of November, 1884, the mayor of the city
made a temporary arrangement with the defendant to furnish
the Brush electric light to the city for the purpose of keeping the
portion of the city above described lighted during the balance
of the month of November and the month of December, 1884.
This was in substance all the proof in the cause. The court
charged the jury that if they believed the evidence the plaintiff
was entitled to recover the prices of the machinery, as fixed in
the above card of rates, with interest from January the 1st, 1885.
Verdict for plaintiff and judgment on the verdict.
.Afr. SarAuel F. .Rice and Xl'r. A. A. Wiley, for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief, citing: Nash v. Towne, 5 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

689; Bank of Columbia v. Hagner, 1 Pet. 455; Barredav.
Silsbee, 21 How. 146; MAferrian v. United States, 107 U. S.
437 ; Davenport v. Lamb, 13 Wall. 418; -Harknessv. Russell,
118 U-.S. 663; Young v. Eunter, 6 K. Y. 203; UV-iteod States
v. Peck, 102 U. S. 64
_lr. II. C. Tompkins, for defendant in error, cited: -Eannady
v. Lambert, 37 Alabama, 57; hambers County v. Clews, 21
Wall. 317; Holloway v. Tolbert, 70 Alabama, 389; Beadle v.
Graham,66 Alabama, 99; Darden v. Jamnes, 48 Alabama, 33;
Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299; .Dermott v.
Jones, 2 Wall. 1; -Fergusonv. Jfarwood,7 Cranch, 408; Harrison v. Weaver, 2 Porter (Ala.) 542; T"eaver v. LTapsley, 42
Alabama, 601; S. C. 94 Am. Dec. 671; _McRae v. Baser, 9
Porter (Ala.) 122; Goodlet v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad,
122 U. S. 391; Rando ph v. B. & 0. Railroad,109 UT. S. 4 78;
City Council v. lontgomery Water Works, 77 Alabama, 248;
Thiteheadv. Lane, 72 Alabama, 39, 42; Lowery v. Peterson, 75
Alabama, 109; Goldsborough v. Orr, 8 Wheat. 217; W~alker v.
Clay, 21 Alabama, 797 ; Phil., ]Wilm. & Balt. RailroadCo. v.
Howard, 13=How. 307, 339; Emigrant Co. v. Adams County,
100 U. S. 61; -ill v. Bishop, 2 Alabama, 320; Pordagev. Cole,
I Saund. 310; Crawford v. Veston, 131 Alass. 283; L-ucesco Oil
Co. v. Brewer, 66 Penn. St. 351 ; Quigley v. Defaas, 82 Penn.
St. 267, 273 ; Scott v. Eittanning,89 Penn. St. 231 ; Johnson
v. Johnson, 3 Bos. & Pull. 162; Young & Conant 3Iffg Co. v.
Wakefield, 121 Mass. 91; Barth v. Clise, 12 Wall. 400; Philpot v. Gruninger, 14 Wall. 570; Walbrun v. Babbitt, 16 Wall.
577; Chicago cc. Railroadv. Ross, 112 IT. S. 377, 395; Pennywit v. Eaton, 15 Wall. 382; Hall v. Jordan, 19 Wall. 271;
Insurance Co. v. Hechbergers, 12 Wall. 164; Prentice v.
Pickersgill, 6 Wall. 511.
A[u.

JusrTio

HARiLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

He stated the case as above reported, and continued:
1. The special pleas contained nothing of which the defendant could not have availed himself under his plea of the gen-

POLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.

453

Opinion of the Court.

eral issue. If the court erred in sustaining the demurrer to
any of the special pleas, it was an error without injury, and,
therefore, not constituting a ground of reversal. Code of
Alabama, 1886, ยง 2675; Naownady v. Lambert, 37 Alabama,

57, 59.
2. It was not error to allow the written agreement between
the parties to be read in evidence without proof of its execution. The Code of Alabama provides that "every written
instrument, the foundation of the suit, purporting to be signed
by the defendant, his partner, agent, or attorney in fact, must
be received in evidence without proof of the execution, unless
the execution thereof is denied by plea, verified by affidavit."
2770. There was no such plea in this case.
3. By the terms of the agreement between the parties, the
defendant was to pay a certain amount to the plaintiff, by a
named day, for the machinery, dial and lamps, provided the
city council of Montgomery concluded "to adopt the Brush
electric light for the future lighting of the streets" of that
city, after the expiration of the contract which Pollalk &
Company then had with the city. The mnain question in the
case is, whether the contingency just stated happened prior to
January 1, 1885; if so, the contract between the parties became one of absolute sale, and bound the defendant to pay on
that day the specified card rates for the property.
The defendant insists that the agreement, construed in the
light of the circumstances attending its execution, contemplated something more than the adoption by the city council
of the Brush electric light for the limited territory covered by
the contract which Pollak & Co. then had with the city; and
that the parties made their agreement with reference to an
enlargement, after the expiration of that contract, of the area
in the city to be lighted with the Brush electric light. We do
not assent to this construction. The agreement was made in
view of the fact that the city was then using, under the contract with Pollak & Co., only twenty-three of the Brush
electric lights. The machine, dial and lamps furnished by the
defendant were used, and presumably were needed, in order
that Pollak & Co. might perform that contract. He was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

pay only certain rental therefor in case the city council concluded "not to continue lighting the streets of Montgomery
with the Brush electric light after the expiration of the present contract with said Pollak & -Co.," and if the council con.
eluded otherwise, then the machine, dial and lamps were to
be returned to the defendant, fully repaired and in good working order, by January 1, 1885. These provisions clearly show
that the lighting of the streets after November 1, 1884, with
the Brush electric light, under an arrangement for that purpose with the city council, even to the limited extent provided
for by the contract with Pollak & Co., was, within the meaning of the parties, such an adoption of that light by the city
as bound the plaintiff to purchase the machine, dial and lamps
in question and pay therefor, by January 1, 1885, the sum of
$6180. It could not have been their intention to make the
permanent adoption of the Brush electric light, for an indefinite period for all the streets of the city, or for a larger territory than that stipulated for in the contract with Pollak &
Co.; a condition precedent to the defendant's obligation to buy
the property at the aggregate price fixed. The communication of Pollak to the city council, under date of October 4,
1884, supports this conclusion. He distinctly says that if the
then existing contract was not renewed, he was under a duty
by his agreement with the defendant to take down, pack and
deliver the machinery at Cleveland, Ohio; implying that if his
contract was renewed no such duty would rest upon him. And
that the contingency happened upon which the defendant
became bound to purchase the property outright at the price
above named, appears from the fact that the contract of Pollak
& Co. was renewed. That renewal is shown by the action of
the city council on the 3d of November, 1884. Its action in
response to the written communication of Pollak, under date
of October 4, and its monthly payments thereafter to him,
operated as an effective renewal of his contract with the city,
although such renewal was not evidenced by a written contract covering a fixed period of time. City Council of Montgornery v. 3fontgornery lFater Works, '7 Alabama, 248, 254.
4. It is also contended that the plaintiff was not entitled to.

POLLAK v. BRUSH ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION.

455

Opinion of the Court.

recover, except upon averment or proof that it had transferred
or offered to transfer to the defendant the shares of stock held
by it and by the Brush Electric Company of Cleveland, Ohio,
in the Brush Electric Light and Power Company of Montgomery. This cannot be, unless, as insisted, his promise to
pay, in the contingency named in the third article of the
agreement of November 13, 1883, the sum of $6180, was in
consideration of the plaintiff's promise to transfer, or have
transferred to him, the above shares. In support of this position the case of Bank of Columbia v. ifagner, 1 Pet. 455,
465, is cited. It was there said that the inclination of the
courts strongly favors, as obviously just, that construction of
contracts which makes the covenants or promises of the parties dependent rather than independent. After observing that
the seller ought not to be compelled to part with his property
without receiving the consideration, nor the purchaser to part
with his money without an equivalent in return, the court
said: "IHence, in such cases, if either a vendor or a vendee
wish to compel the other to fulfil his contract, he must make
his part of the agreement precedent, and cannot proceed
against the other without an actual performance of the agreement on his part, ol a tender or refusal."
But it is clear, as said in Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltirore Railroad Company v. Howard, 13 How. 307, 339, that
covenants are to be considered dependent or independent,
according to the intention of the parties, to be deduced from
the whole instrument. It is manifest that the covenant of
the plaintiff in relation to the transfer of stock in the Brush
Electric Light and Power Company is wholly independent of
the agreement in relation to the machine, dial and lamps in
question. The consideration for such transfer, and for the
settlement and satisfaction of all claims due by Pollak & Co.
and by the Brush Electric Light and Power Company to the
plaintiff, was the payment by Pollak of a certain amount,
part in cash on the execution of the agreement of November
13, 1883, and the balance on the 1st of January, 1884. On
the other hand, the consideration for Pollak's agreement to
pay, in a certain contingency, a specified sum for the machine,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Syllabus.

dial and lamps, was his becoming the absolute owner of those
articles, upon the happening of that contingency. The cost
of the articles was fixed by the agreement at a certain aggregate sum, without reference to the transfer of the above-mentioned stock. There is nothing whatever in the contract indicating that the payment for the machine, dial and lamps was
to depend, in any degree, upon the transfer of the stock, or
that the transfer of the stock was to depend upon the adoption of the Brush Electric Light by the city. The covenants
were wholly independent; and, therefore, it was not essential,
to the plaintiff's right to recover, that it should allege or prove
that its agreement to transfer, or have transferred, to the defendant, the above-described stock, had been performed. That
may be the subject of a separate suit.
As the court below correctly interpreted the agreement between the parties, and as the evidence showed that the contingency happened which entitled the plaintiff to recover the
sum specified in the. agreement as the value of the property,
the direction to the jury to find for the plaintiff was right.
Goodlet v. Louisville & .Nashville Railroad,122 U. S. 391;
Zane v. fforthern CentraZ Railroad,ante, 91.
The judgment is afjrmed.

CORN LIUS v. KESSEL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 60.

COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

Submitted November 2, 1838. -Decided

November 19, 1838.

In Wisconsin an equitable defence may be set up in an action at law; but
it must be separately stated, in order that it may be considered on its
distinctive merits, and in order that, if established, the appropriate relief
may be administered.
'when, under the practice prevailing in a State, an equitable defence is set
up in an action for the possession of land, the grounds set forth must
be sufficient to entitle the defendant to a decree that the property be
transferred from the plaintiff to him, or that the plaintiff be enjoined
from prosecuting the action for the possession of the property.

