UNITED STATES v. DEWALT.
Opinion of the Court.

'UNITED STATES v. DEWALT.
APPEAL

FROM

THE FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF WYO11ING.

Wo. 81. Argued November 15, 1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

On the authority of fackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348, it is again held
that imprisonment in a state prison or penitentiary, with or without
hard labor, is an infamous punishment.

Tins was an appeal from a judgment on an application

for a writ of habeas corpus, discharging the prisoner. The
casq is stated in the opinion of the court.
ir. Solicitor General for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. CHmEF JUSTICE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
DeWalt, the appellee, was tried and convicted, upon an information of the crime of embezzlement and making false
entries as the president of a national bank, in violation of
ยง 5209 of the Revised Statutes, and sentenced and committed
to the penitentiary for ten years. This section prescribes the
punishment of imprisonment for not less than five nor more
than ten years, which imprisonment may be ordered to be executed in a state jail or penitentiary. Rev. Stat. ยง 5541. Appellee was subsequently discharged on habeas corpus upon the

ground that the crime in question was an infamous crime, for
which he could not, under the Constitution, be held to answer
on information, but only on presentment or indictment by a
grand jury. From the order discharging him this appeal is
prosecuted, and it is contended that a crime is not infamous
which is not subject to the penalty of hard labor as part of
the punishment of imprisonment.
This, however, was otherwise ruled in Mackin v. United
States, 117 U. S. 348, 352, where this court held, speaking

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

through 21r. Justice Gray, "that at the present day imprisonment in a state prison or penitentiary, with or without hard
labor, is an infamous punishment."
That case is decisive of this, and the order appealed from
must be

PACIFIC POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY
v. O'CO:NNOR.
ERROR

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1282. Submitted November 12, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

A remittitur, in a judgment on a verdict, of all sums in excess of $5000,
made on the day following entry of the judgment, on motion of plaintiff's
counsel, in the absence of defendant or his counsel, is no abuse of the
discretion of the court.

MOTION TO DISISS for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion.
.L'. D. . .De1lkn

The case is

for the motion.

.A&. Andrew TYesley .ent opposing.
MR. CHIEF JuSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action to recover damages for personal injuries,
which resulted, August 29th, 1888, in a verdict for $5500.
Upon the return of the verdict the court directed, as minuted
by the clerk, judgment to be entered thereon. On the 30th
day of August the plaintiff below, by his counsel, asked leave
in open court to remit the sum of $500, which was granted,
and judgment rendered for $5000 and costs, "and now so
appears of record."
Subsequently the defendant below moved to set aside the
allowance of the remittitur and to correct the judgment,
which motion was denied by the court, and defendant ex-

