OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

CREDIT COMPANY LIMITED v. ARKANSAS CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPAN-Y.
APPERA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 69. Argued November 5, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

An appeal from a decree of a Circuit Court is not" taken" until it is in some
way presented to the court which made the decree appealed from, so as
to put an end to its jurisdiction over the cause.
An appeal taken in open court will not avail unless the appeal is duly prosecuted.
When the time for taking an appeal has expired, it cannot be arrested or
called back by a simple order of court, such as entering an order nunc
pro tune.

Tins cause was argued at length on its merits when it was
reached upon the docket. The point on which the cause
was decided was called to counsel's attention by the court and
is stated in the opinion.
XJr. G. T. Caruth and 31r. f. . Ri-eynolds, (21f. J. B.
Hfenderson and jlfr. James X1. Lewis were also on the brief,)
for appellants, cited on this point: Brown v. Wc Connell, 124
U.S. 489; O'_eilly v. Edrington, 96 U. S. 721; _Drafer v.
-Davis,102 U. S. 370; Hewitt v. _Filbert, 116 U. S. 142; Sage
v. Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 712.
_lfr. John J ilornor,for appellees, cited to the same point:
Brooks v. -Morris,11 IHow. 203, 207; United States v. Daskiel,
3 Wall. 688, 701; Jfussina v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355; The San
Pedro, 2 Wheat. 132; Scarborough v. Pargoud, 108 U. S.
567.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill filed by the appellants on the 15th day of
April, 1882, to set aside a sale of the Arkansas Central Railroad, made by the master in chancery on July 26th, 1877, under
a decree rendered in the District Court of the United States

CREDIT CO. v. ARK. CENTRAL RAILWAY.

259

Opinion of the Court.

for the Eastern District of Arkansas, at Helena, on the 17th
day of March, 1877, at the suit of the Union Trust Company
of New York against the railroad company, foreclosing a
mortgage executed to secure certain bonded indebtedness.
On January 22d, 1883, a final decree was entered dismissing
the bill for want of equity. On the same day, to wit, January
22, 1883, an appeal to this court was prayed for and allowed;
but it was never prosecuted, no bond! being given, no citation
issued, and no return of the record being made to this court
at the ensuing term. That appeal, therefore, ceased to have
any operation or effect, and cannot avail the appellants.
Brooks v. Norris, 11 How. 203, 207; Steamer Virginia, 19
How. 182; Castro v. United States, 3 Wall. 46; .Mussina v.
Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355; Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S.505; T]e
Tornado, 109 U. S. 110; tate v. Demarest, 110 U. S. 400;
/
Hillian v. Clark, 111 U. S.784.
years
after
exactly
two
1885,
day
of
January,
On the 22d
was
presented
an
appeal
the entry of the decree, a petition for
by the solicitor of the complainant to Mr. Justice Miller, and
allowed by him. At the same time Justice Miller signed a
citation to the defendants to appear in the Supreme Court
of the United States at the then next term thereof, to answer
the appeal. A bond for costs in the sum of $1000 was also
at the same time presented to and approved by the same
Justice. These papers were not presented to the Circuit
Court, nor filed with the clerk thereof, until the 27th day of
January, 1885. On that day the following order was made
and entered in the case to wit: "Comes N.& J. Erb and pray
the court to enter an order granting to the plaintiff an appeal
in this cause to the Supreme Court of the United States, which
motion is denied, such appeal having heretofore been granted.
It is ordered by the court that this entry bear date as of
January 22, 1885."
And on the same day the following order was entered in
this cause:
"Comes K. & J. Erb, attorneys for said plaintiff, and file
here in court a prayer for appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States and the allowance of said appeal, by Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Miller, on the 22d day of January, 1885; also a citation signed
by Mr. Justice Miller and bond for costs approved by said
Justice. Which prayer for appeal to the Supreme Court of
the United States, and the allowance of said appeal by said
Justice, is as follows:" [then copying the petition for appeal,
the allowance, citation, and bond; which papers were endorsed:
"Filed Jan. 2T, 1885. Ralph L. Goodrich, clerk."]
This is all that is sh6wn by the record in regard to the
taking of the appeal; from which it appears that the appeal
was allowed by Justice Miller on the last day on which an
appeal could be taken, but was not presented to the court
below, nor filed with the clerk, until five days after said time
had expired.
The language of the statute is, that "no judgment, decree, or
order of a Circuit or District Court, in any civil action at law
or in equity, shall be reviewed in the Supreme Court on writ
of error or appeal unless the writ of error is brought, or the
appeal is taken, within two years after the entry of such judgment, decree or order." Rev. Stat. P, 1008. It was decided
in B'ooks v. Nforris, 11 How. 203, that "the writ of error is
not brought, in the legal meaning of the term, until it is filed
in the court which rendered the judgment." And Chief
Justice Taney, speaking for the court said: "It is the filing of
the writ that removes the record from the inferior to the Appellate Court, and the period of limitation prescribed by the
act of Congress must be calculated accordingly. The day
on which the writ may have been issued by the clerk, or the
day on which it is tested, are not material in deciding the question." p. 207. This decision has always been adhered to. See
lfu.ssina, v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355; Scarborough v. Pargoud,
108 U. S. 567; Polleys v. Black River Co., 113 U. S. 81.
The same rule is applicable to appeals as to writs of error.
Section 1012 of the Revised Statutes declares that "appeals
from the Circuit Courts, and District Courts acting as Circuit
Courts, and from District Courts in prize causes, shall be subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are or
may be prescribed in law in cases of error." This provision
applies to the time within which appeals may be brought, as

CREDIT CO. v. ARK. CENTRAL RAILWAY.

261

Opinion of the Court.

well as to other regulations concerning them. The an Pedro,
2 Wheat. 132; Vii11abolos v. United States, 6 How. 81; Brandies v. Cochrane, 105 U. S. 262. An appeal cannot be said to
be "taken" any more than a writ of error can be said to be
"brought" until it is, in some way, presented to the court
which made the decree appealed from, thereby putting an end
to its jurisdiction over the cause, and making it its duty to
send it to the Appellate Court. This is done by filing the
papers, viz., the petition and allowance of appeal, (where there
is such a petition and allowance,) the appeal bond and the
citation. In Brandies v. Cochrane,it was held that in the
absence of a petition and allowance, the filing of the appeal
bond, duly approved by a justice of this court, vas sufficient
evidence of the allowance of an appeal, and was a compliance
with the law requiring the appeal to be filed in the clerk's
office.
Of course, if the appeal is allowed in open court and entered
in the minutes, no further service is required. But, as we have
seen, even such a mode of taking an appeal (called in the civil
and canon laws an appeal, apud acta) will not avail, unless
the appeal is duly prosecuted.
The attempt made, in this case, to anticipate the actual time
of presenting and filing the appeal, by entering an order nuno
pro tunc, does not help the case. When the time for taking
an appeal has expired, it cannot bg arrested or called back by
a simple order of court. If it could be, the law which limits
the time within which an appeal can be taken would be a dead
letter.
The appeaZ must be dismised, and each party pay its own
coss.

