506

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

FARMERS' FRIEND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
v. CHALLENGE CORN-PLANTER COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 92. Argued November 21, 1888.-Decided December 10, 1888.

In a patent for an improvement in corn-planters having the rear main frame
mounted on supporting wheels and a front runner-frame hinged or
pivoted to the main frame, the claim was for a slotted lever connected
with the runner-frame by a bolt passing through the slot, in combination"
With a shaft journaled at one end to the main frame and at the other end
to the seat-standard, with a lifting hand-lever rigidly attached to that
shaft, for elevating, depressing and controlling the runners. Twentythree months afterwards, a reissue was obtained, containing claims for
any form of foot-lever and hand-lever used in combination for the purpose of elevating and depressing the runners, and other claims, differing
only in being restricted to a hand lock-lever used in connection with the
foot-lever, or in requiring the two levers to be rigidly connected together.
Before the plaintiff's invention, a foot-lever and hand-lever had been used
in combination, rigidly connected together, and with a lock on the handlever. Held, that the reissue was void.

BILL iN EQUITY for infringement of letters patent.

dismssing thebill.
in the opinion.

Complainant appealed.

Decree

The case is stated

.Mr. Edward Boyd for appellant, Mi'. E. . Wood was with
him on the brief.
r'. Arthur Sterm for appellee.
]R. JUSTICE GRxY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity
for the infringement of letters patent, issued August 10, 1880,
and reissued July 11, 1882, for improvements in corn-planters.
23 Fed. Rep. 42.
The drawings referred to in the two patents were alike. So

FARMERS' FRIEND CO. v. CHALLENGE CO.

507

Opinion of the Court.

much of the specifications as related to the matter in controversy differed as shown below, the words of the original patent
omitted in the reissue being printed in brackets, and those
inserted in the reissue printed in italics.
"My invention relates to an improvement in the corn-planters of the class employing a main frame mounted on wheels,
which main frame is combined with a runner-frame in front,
and so attached to the main frame that it may be either a
rigid or yielding planter, and also employing cone-gears and
driving-chains to actuate the dropping mechanism for planting, and adapted to be used either as a rigid or yielding
planter.
"My improvement consists, first, in the arrangement of a
lifting hand-lever [mounted upon a shaft and] connected to
[the] a foot-lever [centrally] which is pivoted to the main
frame, the forward end of which lever is hinged to the runnef-frame, [and] the several parts being so arranged that the
runner-frame may be controlled by either the hand-lever or
foot-lever, or both, at the will of the operator.
"My inventionfurther consists in combining with the handlever [being combined with] detachable fastening devices, so
as to be set in proper position to form a rigid planter, and so
that the fastening devices can be dispensed with, and the hand
and foot levers used to control the operation of the machine,
when used as a yielding planter."
"In the accompanying drawings, Fig. 1 is a side elevation,
partly in section, of a corn-planter embodying the first features of my invention. Fig. 2 is a front elevation, partly in
section, of the same. Fig. 3 is a broken plan view, partly in
section, showing the connection between the hand and foot
levers."
"d represents a shaft journaled at one end [to] in the main
frame and at the other to the seat-standard.
"e' represents the journal-bracket at the seat-standard, the
foot-lever F being rigidly connected to and journaled on [the]
shaft d.
"ID represents a band-lever rigidly [attached to] connected
to the foot-lever ly shaft d, or other equivalent means.

508

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"E represents a segmental notch-plate rigidly fastened to
the main frame A.
"di represents a lock for lever D, passing through the
shoulder of lever D, and engaging at one end with the segmental notch-plate E,and hinged at the other end to a bellcrank lever, d2, the movement of which locks and unlocks the
lifting-lever D.
"When it is desired to operate the machine as a yielding
planter, the locking device d' is thrown out of connection
with the segment-plate, and secured by a hasp, d3, the hand
and foot levers then being free to vibrate with the runnerframe and under control of the operator. When the locking
devices of the lifting-lever D are brought into operation, the
operator sets the runner-frame in any given position by means
of lever D, the lock-lever holding, it rigid, but under easy control of the hand; or the foot-lever may be used to assist in
raising or lowering the frame, and the weight of the driver
may be thrown upon the foot-lever to force the runners into
the ground, if necessary."
The original patent contained the following claim, the
words here printed in brackets being those omitted in the
reissue:
"In a corn-planter having the rear main frame mounted on
supporting wheels, the front runner-frame hinged or pivoted
to the main frame [and operated by an elevating and depressing lever pivoted to the main frame, having its front end
slotted, and connected to the runner-frame by a bolt passing
through said slot, in combination with the shaft d and the lifting hand-lever D, rigidly attached to said shaft, for elevating,
depressing and controlling the runner-frame, substantially as
herein set forth]."
For this claim the reissue substituted the following four
claims, the new words in which are here printed in italics:
"1. In a corn-planter having the rear main frame mounted
on supporting-wheels, and the front runner-frame hinged or
pivoted to the main frame, the combination of a foot-treadle
and a handlever adapted to be used, in conjunction or independently,for the p pose of elevating or depressing the runners, substantiallyas herein set forth..

FARMERS' FRIEND CO. v. CHALLENGE CO.

509

Opinion of the Court.

"2. In a corn-planter having the rear main frame mounted
on supporting-wheels, and the front ranner-frame hinged or
pivoted to the main frame, afoot-treadlefor elevating or depressing the runner-frame, in combination with a hand locklever, the foot-treadle and hand-lever adapted to be used in conjunction for forcing and locking thw runners into the ground
or lifting and locking them out of the ground, substantially as
herein set forth.
"3. In a corn-planter having the rear main frame mounted
on supporting wheels, and the front runner-frame hinged or
pivoted to the main frame, a foot-treadle for elevating or depressing the runner-frame, in combination with a hand-lever
rigidly connected therewith, that either hand-lever or treadle
may be usedforforcing the runners into the ground or lifting
them out of the.ground, substantiallyas herein set forth.
"4. The combination, in a corn-planter hating the rear
main frame mounted on supporting wheels, and a front runner-frame hinged or pivoted to the main frame, of,a foottreadle for elevating the runner-frame, and a hand-lever for
elevating or depressing the same, both arrangedto move simultaneously when either is acted upon. by an operator."
It thus appears that while the claims, both of the original
patent and of the reissue, relate to a corn-planter having the
rear main frame mounted on supporting wheels, and the front
runner-frame hinged or pivoted to the main frame, the difference between them is this:
The claim in the original patent is limited to a lever having
its front end slotted, and connected with the runner-frame by
a bolt passing through the slot, in combination with a shaft
journaled at one end to the main frame and at the other to
the seat-standard, and with a lifting hand-lever rigidly attached to that shaft, for elevating, depressing and controlling
the runner-frame.
In the reissue, on the contrary, the first and fourth claims
undertake to cover any form of foot-lever or treadle and handlever used in combination for the purpose of elevating or depressing the runners; the second claim differs only in being
restricted to a hand lock-lever used in connection with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

foot-lever; and the third claim, in requiring the two levers to
be rigidly connected.
In the Kelly machine, patented September 14, 1875, and in
public use before the plaintiff's invention, a foot-lever and
hand-lever had been used in combination, rigidly connected
together, (certainly quite as much so as in the defendant's
machine,) and with a lock on the hand-lever.
The only feature of the plaintiff's machine which can possibly be considered as new is a slotted lever connected with the
runner-frame by a bolt, and the hand-lever mounted upon a
shaft journaled at one end to the main frame and at the other
end to the seat-standard, thereby facilitating the depressing of
the runners by a single movement. The claim in the original
patent is limited to a mechanism containing that feature,
which is not found in the defendatnt's machine.' The enlargement of the claims in the reissue, so as to embrace machines
not containing that feature, is void, under the rule established by recent decisions of this court, too numerous and
familiar to require citation.
.Decree affi rmed.

DUBLIN TOWNSHIP v. MILFORD SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UIITED STATES FOR THR,
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 943.

Submitted November 19, 1888. -Decided

December 10, 1888.

This court has no jurisdiction of a writ of error to the Circuit Court by reason
of a certificate of division of opinion upon questions arising on demurrers
to several defences in the answer, each of which questions, instead of
clearly and precisely stating a distinct point of law, requires this court
to find out the point intended to be presented, by searching through the
allegations of the answer and the provisions of a statute, and by also
examining either the whole constitution of the State, or else reports or
records of decisions of its courts, made part of the answer.

Tim original action was brought by the Milford Five Cent
Savings Institution, a New Hampshire corporation, against

