OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Syllabus.

dial and lamps, was his becoming the absolute owner of those
articles, upon the happening of that contingency. The cost
of the articles was fixed by the agreement at a certain aggregate sum, without reference to the transfer of the above-mentioned stock. There is nothing whatever in the contract indicating that the payment for the machine, dial and lamps was
to depend, in any degree, upon the transfer of the stock, or
that the transfer of the stock was to depend upon the adoption of the Brush Electric Light by the city. The covenants
were wholly independent; and, therefore, it was not essential,
to the plaintiff's right to recover, that it should allege or prove
that its agreement to transfer, or have transferred, to the defendant, the above-described stock, had been performed. That
may be the subject of a separate suit.
As the court below correctly interpreted the agreement between the parties, and as the evidence showed that the contingency happened which entitled the plaintiff to recover the
sum specified in the. agreement as the value of the property,
the direction to the jury to find for the plaintiff was right.
Goodlet v. Louisville & .Nashville Railroad,122 U. S. 391;
Zane v. fforthern CentraZ Railroad,ante, 91.
The judgment is afjrmed.

CORN LIUS v. KESSEL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 60.

COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

Submitted November 2, 1838. -Decided

November 19, 1838.

In Wisconsin an equitable defence may be set up in an action at law; but
it must be separately stated, in order that it may be considered on its
distinctive merits, and in order that, if established, the appropriate relief
may be administered.
'when, under the practice prevailing in a State, an equitable defence is set
up in an action for the possession of land, the grounds set forth must
be sufficient to entitle the defendant to a decree that the property be
transferred from the plaintiff to him, or that the plaintiff be enjoined
from prosecuting the action for the possession of the property.

CORNELIUS v. KESSEL.
Opinion of the Court.
When an entry is made of two or more tracts, one of which is not at the
disposal of the United States by reason of being within a swamp-land
grant to a State, the validity of the entry of the remainder is not affected
thereby.
When an entry is made upon public land subject to entry, and the purchase
money for it is paid, the United States then holds the legal title for the
benefit of the purchaser, and is bound, on proper application, to issue to
him a patent therefor; and if they afterwards convey that title to another, the purchaser, with notice, takes subject to the equitable claim of
the first purchaser, who can compel its transfer to him.
The power of supervision possessed by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office over the acts of the register and receiver of the local land
offices is not unlimited or arbitrary, but can only be exerted when an
entry is made upon false testimony, or without authority of law; and
cannot be exercised so as to deprive a person of land lawfully entered
and paid for.
When the Commissioner of the General Land Office, without authority of
lawqmakes an order for the cancellation of an entry of public land made
in accordance with law, and accompanied by the payment of the purchase money, the person making the entry and those claiming under him
can stand upon it, and are not obliged to invoke the subsequent reinstatement of the entry by the Commissioner.

TnE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Conrad Jfrez for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
iR.

JUSTICE

Fnmn delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes to us from the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
It is an action for the possession of forty acres of land, being
part of a quarter section in Township 16 of Range 20, in the
county of Sheboygan, in that State, and was brought in the
Circuit Court of that county. The complaint alleges that
the plaintiff has the lawful title as the owner in fee simple,
and the right to the possession of the demanded premises; and
that the defendant wrongfully withholds them from him to
his damage of three hundred dollars. It therefore prays that
the defendant may be adjudged to surrender to the plaintiff
their possession and to pay the said damages.
In support of his afleged title the plaintiff relies on a patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States for a tract &nbracing the demanded
premises, issued to one Myron H. Puffer on the 4th of June,
1877, upon a homestead entry made by him in December of
the previous year, and sundry mesne conveyances from the
patentee.
The answer of the defendant admits that she was in possession of the premises at the commencement of the action, but
denies generally and specifically the other allegations of the
complaint, and pleads in bar of the action an entry upon the
premises by her, and those through whom she derives her
interest, under claim of title, exclusive of any other right,
founded upon a written instrument as a conveyance thereof,
and their occupation under such claim for more than ten years
prior to the commencement of the action.
The answer also sets forth, under a separate headilng or
count, by way of counter-claim, various matters which the
defendant claims constitute in equity a defence to the action
and entitle her to a decree that she has a right to the title
and possession of the premises. Those matters, briefly stated,
are substantially as follows: In January, 1856, one Henry I.
Davidson entered two tracts of land in Township 16 of Range
20, in Sheboygan County, one of which constitutes the premises in controversy, as public lands of the United States subject
to entry, paid the full purchase price to the receiver of the
land office for the district, and obtained from him the usual
duplicate receipt therefor, which was duly recorded in the office
of register of deeds of the county in April, 1857. Subsequently
Davidson and his wife conveyed the tract in controversy to
one Joseph Hein, and from him, through sundry mesne conveyances, all of which are on, record in the register's office
of the county, the property, in October, 1869, became vested
in Jacob Kessel, the husband of the defendant. Ressel died
in July, 1876, in possession of and thus owning the premises,
leaving the defendant, as his widow, and four children surviving him. By his last will and testament, which has been
admitted to probate, he devised to the defendant a life estate
in the premises in controversy, and she is now in possession,
holding the same thereunder, the fee thereof being in the

CORNELIUS v. KESSEL.
Opinion of the Court.

children, subject to her life estate. And she alleges that,
from the time of the entry by Davidson down to the death
of Kessel, there was an uninterrupted possession and claim of
title by Kessel and his predecessors, and that valuable improvements were made thereunder, without their knowledge of any
adverse claim or of the assertion of interest of any kind.
In October, 1857, an order was made by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, cancelling the entry of Davidson
for the two tracts of land, on the alleged ground that one of
them, not the tract embracing the premises in controversy,
was included in a prior grant to the State, and therefore was
not subject to entry. The order of cancellation was made
without previous notice of any kind to Davidson or any party
in interest under the entry, and the purchase money paid was
never returned or offered to him or to any of his successors in
interest; and the defendant contends that the order was erroneously and improperly made. The Commissioner of the
General Land Office afterwards came to the same conclusion,
and in June, 1879, he directed the entry to be reinstated as
to the tract which had not been previously granted to the
State; that is, the tract in controversy in this case. It was
between the cancellation and the reinstatement of the entry
as to this tract that the homestead entry was made by Myron
H. Puffer, and the patent issued to him.
The answer also imputes fraudulent conduct to the register
or receiver of the land office of the district, alleging, on information and belief, that the entry of Puffer was made in his
interest, but it is not deemed necessary to repeat the imputations. It concludes with a prayer that the title to the premises may be adjudged to have been in Jacob Kessel at th time
of his death, and that the defendant is entitled to the possession thereof, or that such other and further relief be granted
as may be just.
The practice of setting up in actions at law defences, whether
of a legal or equitable character, is permissible under the laws
of Wisconsin. They are required, however, to be separately
stated that they may be considered on their distinctive merits,
and if established, that the appropriate relief may be admin-

,OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

istered. When, as in this instance, the action is for the possession of land, the grounds set forth must be sufficient to entitle
the defendant to a decree that the title of the property be
transferred from the plaintiff to him, or that the plaintiff be
enjoined from prosecuting the action for the possession of the
property. The equitable defence is, therefore, to be first considered and determined, for, if sustained, there will be no occasion for proceeding with the remedy at law, Quinby v. Conlan,
104 U. S. 420; and that course was pursued in the present
case. The court took up the matters alleged as grounds for
equitable relief and considered the evidence adduced in their
support; and it thereupon found that the allegations of the
answer as to those matters were sustained in all particulars.
Judgment was accordingly rendered in favor of the defendant,
declaring that the entry of Myron HT. Puffer and the patent
thereon issued to him were null and -of no effect as a conveyance of the premises; that the defendant's testator died vested
with an equitable title to them, and entitled to their possession
and to a patent therefor from the United States, and that the
defendant has such estate and possession during her life; and
directing that the complaint of the plaintiff be dismissed with
costs. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was affirmed.
The forty acres in controversy were subject to entry in
January, 1856, when Davidson entered them together with
another tract. The validity of the entry of those acres was
not affected by the fact, that the second tract belonged to the
State of Wisconsin under the swamp-land grant, and was not
therefore subject to the disposal of the United States. A
defect in the title of one of several parcels sold does not
invalidate the sale of the others if the purchaser makes no
objection. When the tract, which was subject to entry, was
thus purchased and paid for, it ceased to be subject to the
disposal of the United States; it was not in equity their property. Cr'olZ v. Saford, 3 How. 440, 460; Tfitherspoo v.
.Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, 218. The legal title, it is true, was
retained by them, but they held it as trustee for the benefit of
the purchaser; and they were bound upon proper application

CORNELIUS v. KESSEL.
Opinion of the Court.

to issue to him a patent therefor. If from inadvertence or
mistake as to their rights, or other cause, they afterwards conveyed that title to another, the grantee with notice took it
subject to the equitable claim of the first purchaser, who could
compel its transfer to him. In all such cases a court of equity
will convert the second purchaser into a trustee of the true
owner and compel him to convey the legal title. Lindsey v.
ilawes, 2 Black, 554; Star7 v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, 419.
The power of supervision possessed by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office over the acts of the register and
receiver of the local land offices in the disposition of the public lands, undoubtedly authorizes him to correct and annul
entries of land allowed by them, where the lands are not subject to entry, or the parties do not possess the qualifications
required, or have previously entered all that the law permits.
The exercise of this power is necessary to the due administration of the land department. If an investigation of the
validity of such entries were required in the courts of law
before they could be cancelled, the necessary delays attending
the examination would greatly impair, if not destroy, the
efficiency of the department. But the power of supervision
and correction is not an unlimited or an arbitrary power. It
can be exerted only when the entry was made upon false testimony, or without authority of law. It cannot be exercised
so as to deprive any person of land lawfully entered and paid
for. By such entry and payment the purchaser secures a
vested interest in the property and a right to a patent therefor, and can no more be deprived of it by order of the Commissioner than he can be deprived by such order of any other
lawfully acquired property. Any attempted deprivation in
that way of such interest will be corrected whenever the
matter is presented so that the judiciary can act upon it.
In Lindsey v. Hawes we have a noted instance in which
the court inquired into the facts of a disputed entry of public
lands, and gave effect to a lawful entry, which had been set
aside, and the certificate issued cancelled, by order of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office. In that case it
appeared that Lindsey had, in 1839, applied to the register

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and receiver of the land office at Galena to purchase land,
claiming the right of preemption under the act of 1838, by
reason of cultivation and actual residence thereon, and having
established his claim to the satisfaction of those officers, he
received from them, in June, 1839, the proper certificate, stating the receipt of the purchase money, and that on its presentation to the Commissioner of the General Land Office he
would be entitled to a patent. Subsequently, in 1845, the Commissioner set aside this entry, and ordered the certificate to be
cancelled, on the ground that a mistake had been made in the
original survey of the land, and that by a new survey ordered
in 1844, it was ascertained, as he supposed, that the house in
which Lindsey resided, when he made his claim in 1839, was
not on the land for which he received his certificate. After
this, one Hlawes claimed a preemption right to the same land;
and the Commissioner directed the register and receiver to
hear proof of his right, and to adjudicate upon it. They accordingly heard his proof, and gave him a certificate, upon
which a patent was afterwards issued to him. Lindsey died
in the same year in which he made his entry; and his heirs,
who had no notice of the new survey made five years afterwards, or of the proceedings by which Hawes established his
claim before the register and receiver, brought suit against
Hawes and grantees from him, to compel a transfer'by them
of the title obtained by the patent. It appeared that the
residence of Lindsey was on the line which, according to the
new survey, divided the quarter section he entered from an
adjoining quarter section; so that in one sense it may be said
that he resided on both quarter sections. The court held that
the government was bound by the original survey; that Lindsey's residence was sufficiently on the section which he
claimed; that the patent certificate was rightfully issued to
him; that the act of the Commissioner in setting it aside was
illegal, and did not destroy the right thus vested; that the
land was not, therefore, subject to entry by Hlawes; that the'
patent obtained by him was wrongfully and illegally issued to
him; and that the heirs of Lindsey were entitled to a conveyance of the legal title from him and his codefendants.

CORNELIUS v. KESSEL.
Opinion of the Court.

That case covers the present one in all essential particulars.
The interest of Davidson in the tract, which embraces the
premises in controversy, acquired by him by his entry, was not
lost or impaired by the order directing its cancellation. That
order was illegally made, and those claiming under him can
stand upon the original entry and are not obliged to invoke
the subsequent reinstatement of the entry by the Commissioner.
As that entry, with the payment of the purchase money, gave
Davidson a right to a patent from the United States, his heirs
are entitled to a conveyance of the legal title from those holding under the patent wrongfully issued to Puffer.
Whether Davidson or his successors would have had a right
to surrender his entry, upon learning that one of the tracts
entered had been previously granted to the State, and claim a
return of the purchase money, is a question that does not arise
here. It is sufficient to say that, until such objection was
raised by them, it did not lie with the land department to oppose the completion of his title to the tract which was subject to entry.
The judgment entered in the court below would have been
in better form had it directed a conveyance to the heirs of
Jacob Kessel, subject to the life estate of the defendant, from
those holding under the patent to Puffer, of the legal title which
he bad acquired to that portion which was subject to entry.
The heirs would thus avoid the necessity of applying to the
land department for a patent, which it might refuse to issue,
until the patent already issued had been cancelled by judicial
proceedings.
The Supreme Court of the State makes some comment upon
the form of the judgment, but observes that there is nothing
in it of which the plaintiff can complain. He cannot be prejudiced by the cancellation of the patent, because the legal title
vested in him by that instrument must inure to those who
have the superior right to it. The judgment is, therefore,
Affitrnmc.

