OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Counsel for Complainant.

holding that, notwithstanding any altered conditions of the
country in the future, the legislature had, in 1833, contracted
that the company might, for all time, charge rates for transportation of persons and property over its line up to the limits
there designated.
It is conceded that a railroad corporation is a private corporation, though its uses are public, and that a contract embodied in terms in its provisions, or necessarily implied by them,
is within the constitutional clause prohibiting legislation impairing the obligation of contracts. If the charter in this way
provides that the charges, which the company may make for
its services in the transportation of persons and property, shall
be subject only to its own control up to the limit designated,
exemption from legislative interference within that limit will
be maintained. But to effect this result, the exemption must
appear by such clear and unmistakable language that it cannot be reasonably construed consistently with the reservation of the power by the State. There is no such language in
the present case. The contention of the plaintiff in error
therefore fails, and the judgment must be

Affirrned.

LIGGETT AND MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY
v. FINZER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF XE-tUOKY.
No. 39. Argued October 24, 188.-Decided November 5,1888.

On the proofs the court holds: (1) That the complainant was not the first
person to use the design of a star on plug tobacco; (2) that there is no
resemblance between the design of a star as used by the appellee, and
that used by the appellant.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xr. Paul Bakewell for complainant.

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. v. FINZER.

183

Opinion of the Court.

No appearance for appellee.
MR.JusTioE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company, a corporation
created under the laws of Missouri, manufactures plug tobacco
at St. Louis in that State. This tobacco is put up for sale
marked with a star made of tin, having five points and a
round hole in the centre, and attached to the plug by prongs
at its back.
The bill alleges that the complainant has for many years
been extensively engaged in manufacturing this plug tobacco,
and in selling the same in large quantities in St. Louis, Louisville, and throughout the United States, and that every plug
has been marked with such a star; that from the care taken
in its manufacture the tobacco has acquired a great reputation, and large quantities are constantly required to supply the
regular demand; that, by reason of the distinguishing mark
of the star upon the plugs, it has become known to the trade
and the public as "Star Plug Tobacco;" that the, complainant
was the original manufacturer of this tobacco with the design
of a star affixed to the plugs; and that the defendant, knowing all this, is manufacturing and selling at Louisville, Kentucky, plug tobacco to which is affixed a round piece of gilded
paper having on it a red star, under which the word "Light"
is printed; and that this mark is calculated to mislead the
trade and public, and induce them to purchase tobacco from
the defendant as star tobacco of the complainant, to his manifest injury, all of which is contrary to equity and good conscience. He therefore prays that the defendant may be enjoined from using that star on any plug tobacco manufactured
by him.
The defendant admits these several allegations, except the
one asserting that the complainant was the original manufacturer of plug tobacco with a star attached to the plug; and
the one asserting that the star used by him is calculated to mislead the trade and public to purchase the tobacco -manufactured
by him for the tobacco manufactured by the complainant.
Upon the first of these two points the testimony establishes

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the fact that the complainant was the first person to use a star
made of tin and fastened upon plug tobacco as described above,
but that he was not the first person to use the design of a star
upon plug tobacco. The priority of use, therefore, by the
complainant extended only to the tin star and not to the
design of a star generally.
Upon the second of the two points there is even less ground
to sustain the position of the complainant. The two stars, the
one used by the complainant, and the one used by the defendant, are so different in form and surroundings, that it would
not be possible for any person, not afflicted with color blindness, to mistak6 the one for the other. They differ in size and
color. The star used by the complainant on its manufactured
goods is only a little over half an inch in diameter, with a
hole in the centre. The mark used by the defendant consists
of a round paper label over three-fourths of an inch in diameter, with a red star, and the word "Trade" on one side and
]
the word " Mark"
on the other in gilded letters on a red background, and having beneath the star the word "Light," thus
forming by the figure and the letters the word "Starlight."
One star has the silvery appearance of tin foil; the other has
the glare of a red and yellow gilded background. The judgment of the eye upon the two is more satisfactory than evidence from any other source as to the possibility of parties
being misled so as to take one tobacco for the other; and this
judgment is against any such possibility. Seeing in such case
is believing; existing differences being at once perceived and
remaining on the mind of the observer. There is no evidence
that any one was ever misled by the alleged resemblance between the two designs.
But in addition to the want of resemblance in the stars, the
plugs to which they are respectively attached are of different
size and weight. And it appears also that the name which
the defendant has given to his plug tobacco is " Starlight " instead of "Star" tobacco, and it is thus distinguished in name
not only from other t6bacco manufactured by him which he
calls "Sunlight" and "Moonlight," tobacco, but also from all
plug tobacco manufactured by the complainant.
-Decreeaffirmed.

