OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

But this movement does not begin until the articles have been
shipped or started for transportation from the one State to
the other."
The application of the principles above announced to the
case under consideration leads to a conclusion against the contention of the plaintiff in error. The police power of a State
is as broad and plenary as its taxing power; and property
within the State is 'subject to the operations of the former so
long as it is within the regulating restrictions of the latter.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is
.Affrmed.

M . CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER was not a member of the court
when this case was argued and submitted, and took no part in
its decision.

LEATHER

MANUFACTURERS'
BANK
CHANTS' BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

v.

STATES

MER-

FOR TE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 10. Argued December 2, 5, 1887.- Decided October 22, 1888.

If a bank, upon which a check is drawn payable to a particular person or
order, pays the amount of the check to one presenting it with a forged
indorsement of the payee's name, both parties supposing the indorsement
.to be genuine, a right of action to recover back the money accrues at the
date of the payment, and the statute of limitations begins to run from
that date.

THE original action was brought December 7,1877, by the
Merchants' National Bank of the city of New York against
the Leather Manufacturers' National Bank to recover back the
sum of $17,500 paid on March 10, 1870, to the defendant, the
holder of a check drawn upon the plaintiff for that amount,
with interest from June 20, 1871. The defendant, among
other defences, pleaded the statute of limitations, and also that
the plaintiff never demanded repayment or tendered the check
to the defendant until long since the commencement of this

LEATHER MANF.' BANK v. MERCHANTS' BANK. 27
Statement of the Case.

action. At the trial before a jury the following facts were
proved or admitted:
On March 9, 1870, the Bank of British North America, having a larger amount on deposit with the Merchants' Bank,
drew upon that bank a check for $17,500, payable to Margaret
G. Halpine or order, and delivered it to Thomson & Ramsay; and this check, with the names of Mrs. Hialpine and of
William 0. Barrett indorsed thereon, came to the hands of
Hlowes & Macy, private bankers, who deposited it with the
Leather Manufacturers' Bank. On March 10, 1870, the Merchants' Bank paid the amount of the check to the Leather
Manufacturers' Bank through the clearing-house, and charged
the amount on its own books to the Bank of British North
America. By the usual course of dealing between the Bank
of British North America and the Merchants' Bank, the passbook containing entries of the deposits made by the one, and
of the payments made by the other on account thereof, was
written up and returned to the Bank of British North America
fortnightly, together with the checks and other vouchers for
such payments; and on March 17, 1870, the pass-book, containing the charge of the payment of the check in question,
was so balanced and returned with the check. The account
between the Bank of British North America and the Merchants' Bank continued to exist until February 21, 1881, the
day of the trial of the action brought by the former bank
against the latter, mentioned below.
At the time of the payment by the Merchants' Bank to the
Leather Manufacturers' Bank, both parties believed Mrs. Halpine's indorsement to be genuine, whereas in fact it had been
forged by Barrett, the second indorser, who afterwards ab-'
sconded. Howes & Macy failed in 1873.
The Bank of British North America, on or about January
24, 1877, first learned that Mrs. Halpine contended that .her
indorsement was forged; and on January 26, 1877, notified
that fact to the Merchants' Bank; and on June 2, 1877, demanded of that bank payment of the amount of the check, and
left the check with it that it might look into the matter. On
the same day, the'Merchants' Bank showed the check to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Leather Manufacturers' Bank, informed it that the Bank of
British North America had demanded repayment of the
money because the indorsement of Mrs. Halpine's name was a
forgery, and made a like demand upon the Leather Manufacturers' Bank, which declined to pay. On June 20, 1877, the
Merchants' Bank returned the check to the Bank of British
North America, and that bank again demanded of the Merchants' Bank payment of the amount, and tendered it the
check, and it refused to pay.
On August 10, 1877, the Bank of British North America
gave written notice to the Merchants' Bank that it had been
sued for the amount of the check, by reason of the Merchants'
Bank having paid the same upon a forged indorsement, and
that, in the event of being held liable for the amount, it should
hold the M erchants' Bank to its strict legal liability. The
action against the" Bank of British North America is reported as Thomson v. Bank of British North America, 82
N. Y. 1.
On November 'T,1817, the Bank of British North America
brought an action in a court of the State of New York against
the Merchants' Bank for the amount of the check, upon the
ground that the payment thereof by the Merchants' Bank had
been made upon a forged indorsement of the payee's name,
and that the amount had been demanded of the Merchants'
Bank by the Bank of British North America on June 20, 1877,
and refused, and still remained to its credit. In that action,
the Merchants' Bank pleaded that the indorsement was genuine, and that the cause of action was barred by the statute
of limitations; and, before that case came to trial, gave written notice of its having been so sued to the Leather Manufacturers' Bank, in order that it might defend the suit or protect
its rights as it might deem proper, and that the judgment, if
adverse, might be conclusive upon it. On March '[, 1881, the
Bank of British North America recovered judgment against
the Merchants' Bank, which was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals. 91 N. Y. 106.
The Merchants' Bank, on January 25, 1883, paid the amount
of that judgment, and received the check from the Bank of

LEATHER MrANF.' BANK v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

29

Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

British North America, and on larch 15, 1883, gave notice
to the Leather Manufacturers' Bank of having so paid, and
tendered the check to it, and demanded payment of that
amount, with interest from June 20, 1877, which was refused.
-In the present action, the defendant, at the close of the
whole evidence, asked the court to instruct the jury to return
a verdict for the defendant, upon the grounds "that the cause
of action, if complete, did not accrue within six years before
the commencement of this action;" and "t h at the cause of
action, if a demand and tender were necessary, had not accrued when the suit was commenced." The court declined so
to instruct the jury, directed a verdict for the plaintiff for the
amount of the check, with interest from June 20, 1877, and
gave judgment thereon. The defendant sued out this writ of
error.
_31r. John E. Parsons,for plaintiff in error, cited leonard v. Pitney, 5 Wend. 30; Allen v. Afille, 17 Wend.
202; F,'oot v. Farrington,41 N. Y. 164; Afiller v. Wood, 41
Hun, 600 ; Central .NationalBank v. North. River Bank, 44
Hun, 114; Troup v. Smith, 20 Johns. 33; tnited. States
Bank v. Daniel, 12 Pet. 32; Bree v. Holbeck, 2 Doug. 654;
Howell v. Young, 5 B. & 0. 259; Graves v. Arerican Echange Bank, 17 N. Y. 205; White v. ContinentalBank, 64
N. Y. 316; Espy v. Bank of Cincinnati,18 Wall. 604; Boston and Albany Railroad v. Richardson, 135 Mass. 473;
-Daciev. Briggs, 97 U. S. 628; Barrett v. llolmes, 102 U. S.
651; Henderson v. Grifln, 5 Pet. 151; Argall v. Bryant,
1 Sandf. (N.Y.) 98; Bordwell v. Collie, 45 N. Y. 494; Wilcox
v. Plum ber, 4 Pet. 17.; Case v. Hall,24 Wend. 102; S. 07. 35
Am. Dec. 605; Sweetman v. Bunce, 26 N. Y. 2241; Burt v.
Dewey, 40 N. Y. 283; S. C. 100 Am. Dec. 482; _cGiffln v.
Baird, 62 N. Y. 329; Converse v. Miner, 21 Hun, 367; Randon v. Toby, 11 How. 493 ; Southwick v. FirstNational Bank,
84 N. Y. 420; Spoley v. Halsey, 72 N. Y. 578; Stephens v.
Board of Ed'ueation, 3 Hun, 712; Abbott y. Draper,4 Denio,
51; Gryrnes v. Sanders, 93 U. S. 55.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Xr. John E. Burrill for defendant in error.
I. The cause of action in favor of the defendant in error did
not accrue until June, 1877, when the Bank of British North
America for the first time objected to being charged with the
amount of the check. The action was commenced December
7, 1877. The answer admits that that bank did not object to
be charged with the check at the time it was made, and it was
admitted on the trial that the check was charged 10 March,
1870, and returned to that bank 17 March, 1870, and that the
first notification was given to the Merchants' Bank in June,
1877.
The precise point was decided in .3lerftants'Bank v. -First
NAational Bank, in U. S. Circuit Court (Opinion Waite, C. J.),
reported in 3 Fed. Rep. p. 66; in which latter report the syllabus of the case is as follows: "In a suit by the drawee of a
bill of exchange against an indorser, where such bill was drawn
by the Treasurer of the United States, and the name of the
payee forged, the statute of limitations does not begin to run
until judgment has been obtained by the United States against
the drawee."
United States v. Park Bank, 6 Fed. Rep. 852;
C'owpei v. Godmond, 9 Bing. 748; Qkurchill v. Bertrand, 2
Gale & Day. 54,8, 551; Ripley v. Withlee, 27 Texas, 14.
As was well said in one of the cases, the cause of action
arose when the defendant held the- money for the use of the
plaintiff, and this it did not do when the money was paid, but
when it became wrong for the defendant to withhold it, and
this was when the mistake was ascertained and communicated
to the defendant, and it was called upon to refund.
II. It is clear from the undisputed evidence that the money
was paid by the Merchants' Bank to the Leather Manufacturers' Bank under a mistake of fact as to the genuineness of
the indorsement of the check by the payee.
The principle is well established by the highest court of the
State of New York that an action to recover back money paid
under a mistake of fact cannot be maintained until notice of
the mistake has been given and a demand for repayment of
the money made. Southwick v. -First Vational Bank, 84 N. Y.

LEATHER AIANF.' BANK v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

31

Arg-ment for Defendant in Error.

420, 430; S/abrkey v. ltansfeld, 90 NT. Y. 227, 229; Stephens
v. Boarcd, 3 Hun, 712, 715; United States v. Park Bank, 6
Fed. Rep. 852; Freeman v. Jefries,L. R. 4 Exch. 189; Marine
Bank v. City Bank, 59 N. Y. 67.
It is well settled by the highest courts in New York that
where demand is an essential ingredient of the cause of action
the action does not accrue and the statute of limitations does
not begin to run until the demand made. This was decided in
the case between the Merchants' Bank and the Bank of British
North America, where the court overruled the defence of the
statute, and held that it did not begin to run until after the
discovery of the mistake and notice thereof and demand.
Bank v. Bank, 91 N. Y. 108; Ganley v. Bank, 98 N. Y. 487.
In the latter case the court say: "It is universally true that
the statute of limitations does not commence to run upon a
cause of action upon contract until it has accrued, and that
when a demand is necessary before an action can be commenced the statute does not begin to run until after the demand. . . . In this case the contract was not completely
broken until the demand." The same principle was established in Smiley v. Fry, 100 N. Y. 262.
III. The cases which hold that a transferee of securities is
not'bound to notify the transferer of a lack of genuineness of
the securities or of the title thereto until the lapse of a reasonable time after the discovery of the fact, and that until such
discovery he owes no duty to the transferer, have an important bearing on the questions in this case. United States v.
Park Bank, 6 Fed. Rep. 856; Frankv. Lanier, 91 N. Y. 116
(Opinion Danforth, J.); Hieiser v. -Hatcht,86 N.Y. 614; Canal
Banlk v. Bank of Albany, 1 Hill, 287.
So also do the cases which held that the Leather Manufacturers' Bank owed no duty to the plaintiff in error to examine
and ascertain whether the indorsement was genuine before the
check was paid. Corn,Exchange Bank v. .Xassau, Bank, 91
N. Y. 74; C'rawford v. Testside Bank, 100 N. Y. 50; White
v. Ban7, 64 N. Y. 316; Eolt v. Ross, 54: N. Y. 472; Afarine
Bank. v. City Bank, 59 N. Y. 67.
And the cases which held that negligence in making a pay-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ment is no defence to an action to recover back money paid
under a mistake of fact, especially where both parties were
equally boundto inquire. t-ingston Bank v. Eltinge, 40 N. Y.
391; S. C. 100 Am. Dec. 516; -fayer v. MLayor, 63 N. Y. 455.
IV. The decision of the Court of Appeals in rendering the
judgment in favor of the Bank of British :North America
against the defendant in error, reported in 91 N. Y. 106, settled the question in controversy here against the plaintiff in
error, and notice of the institution, of that action having been
given to it, the judgment recovered in that action is conclusive
as to the right of the Merchants' Bank to recover in this action. Bobbins v. Ohicago, 4 Wall. 657 ; Chicago v. Robbins, 2
Black, 418; Heiser v. Hlatch, ubi suvra.
V. It was not necessary that the Aerchants' Bank, to entitle it to maintain the action, should have actually paid the
money to the Bank of British North America, because the action is not brought to recover the money paid to that bank,
but is brought to recover the money which it paid to the
Leather Manufacturers' Bank, and its right to recover this
was complete, when it had within a reasonable time after the
discovery notified the Leather Manufacturers' Bank of the
mistake and demanded repayment of the money. (See cases
under first and third points.)
INor was it necessary, to entitle the plaintiff to maintain the
action, that it should have acquired the title to the check by
repayment and should have tendered the check before action
commenced.
A tender of the check was not necessary as an ingredient
of the cause of action (United States v. Park Bank, 6 Fed.
iRep. 852, 855), because the action was not based on the check,
nor was the possession of the check necessary to enable the
Merchants' Bank to maintain the action, or the Leather Manufacturers' Bank to recover against those to whom it had paid.
Notice of the mistake and demand were all which were necessary to constitute the cause of action. The plaintiff in error
could have given notice and made demand when notice was
given to and demand made upon it. It could also have given
notice of the action against it, so as to make the judgment

LEATHER MANF.' BANK v. MERCHANTS' BANK. 33
Opinion of the Court.

thereon binding on the parties with whom it dealt. For its
failure to discover the forgery at the time it received the
check, the Leather Manufacturers' Bank was responsible, and
not the defendant in error. (See cases under third point.)
Had the defendant been willing to pay and refused on the
ground that the check wa., not tendered, the case might be
different, as in that case the defendant in error could have
paid the money and acquired the title to the check; but the
refusal was absolute and not put on that ground, and a tender
was thereby waived. Defendant could not compel the plaintiff to pay the amount of the check so as to acquire the actual
ownership of it for the purpose of going through the useless
formality of tendering it to defendant. But if a tender were
necessary, then we submit; (1) That the tender made on June
20, 1877, was sufficient. The Merchants' Bank had the possession of the check which had been left with it by the Bank
of British North America under an agreement that it was to,
be returned if the money was not paid, and to be kept if the.
money was paid, and the Merchants' Bank was fully authorized to tender and to deliver it to the Leather Manufacturers'
Bank, and would have delivered it to the latter bad it paid.
the money. (2) The production and tender of the check on
the trial, at which time it was the property of the Merchants' Bank, were sufficient. (3) The check was of no value,
to the Leather Manufacturers' Bank or to Howes & Macy,
from whom it took it, and its possession was not necessary to,
enable the Leather Manufacturers' Bank to maintain an action against it or Barrett, both of whom, on the facts proved
by the evidence, were liable without regard to the production,
of the check. Cana Ba/nk v. Bavk- of Albany, 1 tHll, 287.
MR. JUSTICE GPAY, after stating the case as above reported,.

delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question argued is whether this action was,
barred by the statute of limitations of New York, by which
any action upon a contract, obligation or liability, expressed or
implied, except a judgment or a sealed instrument, must be
VOL. Cxxvm-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

brought within six years after the cause of action accrues.
Code of 1855, ยง 91; Code of 1876, ยง 382.
The question then is whether, if a bank, upon which a check
is drawn payable to a particular person or order, pays the
amount of the check to one presenting it with a forged indorsement of the payee's name, both parties supposing the
indorsement to be genuine, the right of action of the bank
to recover back the money from the person so obtaining it
accrues immediately upon the payment of the money, or
only after a demand for its repayment.
In order to avoid confusion in dealing with this question, it
is important to keep in mind the difference between the liability of a bank to a depositor, and the liability to the bank of a
person who has received money from it upon a forged check
or order.
It is true that the liability, in either case, is that of debtor,
not that of trustee or bailee; but there the resemblance ceases.
The specific money deposited does not remain the money of
the depositor, but becomes the property of the bank, to be
invested and used as it pleases; its obligation to the depositor
is only to pay out an equal amount upon his demand or order;
and proof of refusal or neglect to pay upon such demand or
order is necessary to sustain an action by the depositor against
the bank. The bank cannot discharge its liability to account
with the depositor to the extent of the deposit, except by payment to him, or to the holder of a written order from him,
usually in the form of a check. If the bank pays out money
to the holder of a check upon which the name pf the depositor,
or of a payee or indorsee, is forged, it is simply no payment
as between the bank and the depositor; and the legal state of
the account between them, and the legal liability of the bank
to him, remain just as if the pretended payment had not been
made. First National Bank v. Whitman, 941 U. S. 343.
But as between the bank and the person obtaining money
or. a forged check or order, the case is quite different. The
first step in bringing about the payment is the act of the
holder of the check, in assuming and representing himself to
have a right, which he has not, to receive the money. One

LEATHER MANF.' BANK v. MERCHANTS' BANK.

35

Opinion of the Court.

who, by presenting forged paper to a bank, procures the payment-of the amount thereof to him, even if he makes no express warranty, in law represents that the paper is genuine,
and, if the payment is made in ignorance of the forgery, is
liable to an action by the bank to recover back the money
which, in equity and good conscience, has never ceased to be
its property. It is not a case in which a consideration, which
has once existed, fails by subsequent election or other act of
either party, or of a third person; but there is never, at any
stage of the transaction, any consideration for the payment.
Epy v. BanT7 of Cincinnati,18 Wall. 604; Gurney v. Womerskey, 4 El. & Bl. 133; Cabot Ba-k v. 3rorton, 4 Gray, 156;
Aldrich v. Butts, 5 R. I. 218; White v. Continental Bank, 64:
NV. Y. 316.
Whenever money is paid upon the representation of the
receiver that he has either a certain title in property transferred in consideration of the payment, or a certain authority
to receive the money paid, when in fact he has no such title
or authority, then, although there be no, fraud or intentional
misrepresentation on his part, yet there is no consideration for
the payment, and the money remains, in equity and good conscience, the property of the payer, and may be recovered back
by him, without any previous demand, as money had and received to his use. His right of action accrues, and the statute
of limitations begins to run, immediately upon the payment.
Thus, in the early case of Bree v. Holbech, 2 Doug. 654, where
an administrator received the amount of the mortgage money
upon his assignment of a mortgage purporting to be made to
the deceased, but in fact a forgery, of which both parties were
ignorant, it was held by Lord Mansfield and the Court of
King's Bench that the right of action to recover back from the
administrator the money so paid was barred by the statute of
limitations in six years from the time of the payment.
So, in Utica Bank v. Va, Gieson, 18 Johns. 485, where a
promissory note payable at the Bank of Geneva was left by
the indorsers with the Utica Bank for collection, and sent by
it to the Bank of Geneva for that purpose, and the amount
was afterwards paid by the Utica Bank to the indorsers upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the mistaken supposition that it had been paid to the Bank of
Geneva by the maker, when in fact it had not, and it was not
pretended that the Utica Bank had been guilty of any negligence, the Supreme Court of New York held that notice of
the fact that the note had not been paid by the maker was
unnecessary to maintain an action by the Utica Bank to recover back the money from the indorser ; and Chief Justice
Spencer said : "The plaintiffs' ground of action, then, is that
the money was paid to the defendants under a mistake of
facts. The defendants are not bailees or trustees of the money
thus received. It was paid and received, as their money, and
not as money to be kept for the plaintiffs. In such a case, it
was not necessary to make a demand prior to the suit; for a
request was not essential to the maintenance of the action;
nor did the defendants' duty to return the money erroneously
paid arise upon request."
In Bank- of United States v. Daniel, the acceptor and indorsers, upon taking up a bill of exchange for ten thousand
dollars, which had been duly protested for non-payment, paid
ten per cent as damages, under a mistake as to the local law
upon the subject. Upon a bill in equity to relieve against the
mistake and recover back the money, this court, while holding that such a mistake gave no ground for relief, also held
that, if it did, the statute of limitations ran, in, equity as well
as at law, from the time of the payment, saying: "If the
thousand dollars claimed as damages were paid to the bank
at the time the bill of exchange was taken up, then the cause
of action to recover the money (had it been well founded)
accrued at the time the mistaken payment was made, which
could have been rectified in equity, or the money recovered
back by a suit at law." 12 Pet. 32, 56.
In -Dill v. frareham, 7 Met. 438, the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, speaking by Chief Justice Shaw, held
that a party receiving money in advance, on a contract which
he had no authority to make and afterwards refused to fulfil,
was liable to the other party in an action for money had
and received, without averment or proof of any previous demand. And in Stwr'gis v. Preston, 134 Mass. 372, where land

LEATHER MANF.' BANK v. MERCHANTS' BANK. 37
Opinion of the Court.

was sold for a certain sum by the square foot, and the purchaser, relying on the vendor's statement of the number 'of
feet, made payment accordingly, and afterwards discovered
that the number had been overstated, but disclaimed all charge
of fraud or fraudulent concealment on the part of the vendor,
it was held that the right of action to recover back the excess
paid accrued immediately, without any previous demand, and
was barred by the statute of limitations in six years from the
date of the payment. See also Earle v. Biekford, 6 Allen,
549; Blethen v. _overing, 58 Maine, 437.
The judgment of the Circuit Court in the present case appears to have been based upon the decision in .ferchants'
Bank v. Fiest .1Yational Bank, 4 Hughes, 1, which proceeds
upon grounds inconsistent with the principles and authorities
above stated, and cites no case except the very peculiar one of
Cowper v. Godmond, 9 Bing. 748; S. . 3 Moore & Scott,
219; in which the right of action to recover back money paid
for a grant of an annuity, the memorial of which was defective, was held not to accrue until the grantor elected to avoid
it on that ground, the annuity apparently being considered
as not absolutely void, but as voidable only at the election of
the grantor. See Churchill v. Bertrand,3 Q. B. 568; . C. 2
Gale & Day. 548.
Although some of the opinions of the Court of Appeals of
New York, in the cases cited at the bar, contain dicta which,
taken by themselves, and without regard to the facts before
the court, might seem to support the position of the defendant in error, yet the judgments in those cases, upon full examination, appear to be quite in accord with the views which
we have expressed.
The cases of Thornon v. Bank of B'itish lVorth America,
82 N. Y. 1, and Bank of Britihl&Vorth America v. Jiercha/nts'
Bank, 91 N. Y. 106, were actions by depositors against their
respective bankers, and were therefore held not to be barred
until six years after demand.
In Southwick v. First Vational Bank, 84 N. Y. 420, the decision was that there was no such mistake as entitled the party
paying the money to reclaim it; and in Sharkey v. tXansfeeld,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

90 N. Y. 227, it was adjudged' that money paid by mistake,
but received -with full knowledge of all the facts, might be
recovered back without previous demand; and what was said
in either opinion as to the necessity of a demand where both
parties act under mistake was obiter dictum.
Two other cases in that court were decided together, and
on the same day as Bank of Britisk 1 orth America v. Xierchants' Bank, above cited.
In one of them, the defendants, who had innocently sold to
the plaintiffs a forged note as genuine, and, upon being informed of the forgery and requested to pay back the purchase
money, had expressly promised to do so if the plaintiffs should
be obliged to pay a third person to whom they had in turn
sold the note, were therefore held not to be discharged from
their liability to refund by the plaintiffs' having awaited the
determination of a suit by that person against themselves,
before returning the note to the defendants. -Frankv. Lanier,
91 N. Y. 112.
In the other case, a bank, which had paid a check upon a
forged indorsement, supposed by both parties to be genuine,
was held entitled to recover back the money, with interest
from the time of payment, necessarily implying that the right
of action accrued at that time. Co'i Exchange Bank v. Nassau Bank, 91 N. Y. 74.
In the case at bar, as in the case last cited, the plaintiff's
right of action did not depend upon any express promise by
the defendant after the discovery of the mistake, or upon any
demand by the plaintiff upon the defendant, or by the depositor or any other person upon the plaintiff; but it was to recover back the money, as paid without consideration, and had
and received by the defendant to the plaintiff's use. That
right accrued at the date of the payment, and was barred by
the statute of limitations in six years from that date. For
this reason, without considering any other ground of defence,
the order must be
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to set a&ide the verdict and to order a new
trial.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

39

Opinion of the Court.
'IR.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

did not sit in this case, or take any

part in the decision.
MIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER and MR. JUSTICE LAAR_ were
not members of the court when this case was argued, and took
no part in its decision.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 56.

Submitted October 18, 1888.-Decided October 22, 1888.

On the authority of Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and Rattermnan
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, this case is reversed andremanded for such further proceedings as justice may require.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

ilk. ff. E. Olrnsted for plaintiff in error.
2.A. Th S. iirpatrick,Attorney General of Pennsylvania,
for defendant in error. -Mr. John F. Sanderson, Deputy
Attorney General, was also on the brief.
ISIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Judgment was rendered against plaintiff in error for taxes
on telegraphic messages sent from point to point within the
State of Pennsylvania; on messages sent from points within
the State to points in other States; on messages sent froin
points in other States to points within the State; and on messages sent to and from points in other States, which passed
over lines partly within the State; and the record discloses
the several amounts of taxes upon the several classes of messages, which, with commissions and interest, make up the
total recovery. It is clear, and this is conceded by the defend-

