ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Syllabus.

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 18. Argued April 9, 10, 1888.--Decided October 22, 1M5.

The State Constitution in force in California prior to 1880 authorized the
legislature to confer upon Probate Courts jurisdiction of proceedings
for the partition of real estate, as ancillary or supplementary to the
settlement and distribution of the estates of deceased persons coming
within the cognizance of such courts.
The legislature of California, under the Constitution in force prior to 1880,
conferred upon the Probate Courts of the State power, after final settlement of the accounts of a personal representative, and after a decree of
distribution, defining the undivided interests of heirs in real estate in
the hands of such representative, (neither the title of the decedent nor
the fact of heirship being disputed,) to make partition of such estate
among the heirs, so as to invest each separately with the exclusive possession and ownership of distinct parcels of such realty, as against coheirs; and such a grant of power does not appear to be foreign to the
jurisdiction usually pertaining to such tribunals in this country.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of California examined and shown to
be in harmony with the two points above stated.
The difference between distribution and partition of real estate among heirs
pointed out.
A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction to set aside a decree of partition in a state Probate Court authorized by law to make it;
nor can it refuse to give full effect to the decree unless the Probate
Court was without jurisdiction in the case.
The jurisdiction of a Probate Court to make partition of real estate of a
decedent among his heirs is not defeated by the fact that the proceedings
for it were originated by a petition of the administratrix, who was also
an heir at law, asking for a settlement of her accounts as administratrix,
and for the adjudication of her rights as heir at law, by partition of the
real estate; the record showing that the court made the decree for the final
settlement and distribution of the estate before it entered upon the question of partition.
The record in this case does not support the contention that proper notice
of the proceedings in the Probate Court for the partition of the real
estate was not given to the minor children.
At the time when the proceedings took place, which form the subject of
controversy in this suit, there being no provision of law in force in California, requiring the appointment of guardians ad litem of infants, in
probate proceedings, it was sufficient for them to be represented in such
proceedings by an attorney, appointed by the court for that purpose.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Tins case involved the title to a fifty-vara lot in the city of
San Francisco, numbered two hundred and five on its official
map. It was a part of the separate estate of Horace Hawes,
senior, who died, intestate, in that city, on M arch 12, 1871,
leaving as his only heirs at law, his widow Caroline Hawes,
and two minor children; Horace Hawes, junior, born March
22, 1859, and Caroline C. Hawes, born August 26, 1864. In
December, 1871, the widow qualified as administratrix in the
Probate Court of the city and county of San Francisco. In
that capacity she took possession, as was her duty under the
law of California, of the entire estate of her deceased husband,
and held it subject to the control of that court. Civil Code,
§ 1384; Code of Civil Procedure, § 1581.
In addition to the above lot, the intestate was the owner, at
the time of his death, of a large amount of property, principally real estate, in the counties of San Francisco and San
Mateo, some of which was community property, and the residue separate property. By the law of California, upon the
death of the husband, intestate, one-half of the community
property goes to the surviving wife, and the other to his
descendants equally, or, in the absence of descendants, according to the right of representation, and in the same manner as
the separate property of the husband; and upon the death of
the husband, leaving a widow and more than one child living,
or the lawful issue of one or more deceased children, one-third
of his estate, not otherwise limited by marriage contract, goes
to the widow, and the remainder in equal shares to his children
and to the lawful issue of any deceased child by right of representation. Civil Code, §§ 163, 164, 687, 1386, 1402.
The estate was divided by proceedings commenced, February 18, 1875, by Mrs. Hawes, administratrix, in the Probate
Court of the city and county of San Francisco. They were
instituted for the purpose of obtaining a final settlement of
her accounts, and, also, the distribution and the partition of
the estate. Such a settlement was had, and, after a decree of
distribution was passed, the court proceeded to make partition
between the heirs, according to their respective interests, of the
various parcels of real estate remaining in the hands of the

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Statement of the Case.

administratrx. By the final decree of partition, rendered
April 19, 1875, certain property, including the above lot, was
set apart to the widow, while other lands in that county, and
in San Mateo County, were allotted to the children.
By deed of May 24, 1875, and for the consideration of three
hundred thousand dollars, the widow conveyed the above lot
to James C. Flood. The latter was in possession under his
purchase until August 21, 1876, when he sold and conveyed,
for a like sum, to James G. Fair, who, prior to the present
litigation, put upon the lot substantial improvements of the
value of several hundred thousand dollars.
On the 6th of April, 1881, Caroline C. Hawes intermarried
with James A. Robinson, who had previously, February 24,
1881, qualified as her guardian.
The present suit was brought, June 6, 1882, in the names of
Mrs. Robinson, (by her husband as guardian,) and Horace
Hawes, Junior, to recover two undivided thirds of said fiftyvara lot. In the progress of the cause Mrs. Robinson was
joined with her brother as an original plaintiff in her own right.
The defendant claimed title under the decree of partition in
the Probate Court. That decree, the plaintiffs insisted, was
void. A jury having been waived, there was judgment for the
defendant, the court below holding that the proceedings in the
Probate Court were in conformity, in all respects, with law.
The foregoing statement forms part of the opinion of the
court in this case. The court below gave no opinion. In addition to that statement the justice who delivered the opinion
in this court has kindly furnished the following summary of
other facts forming essential parts of the case:
On the 18th of February, 1875, the real estate of the decedent, remaining in the hands of the administratrix, consisted
of what is known as Mission Block No. 44, the southeasterly
part of Mission Block No. 8, Mission Block No. 2, and the
fifty-vara lot No. 205, in San Francisco; also, the Redwood
farm and certain villa lots in San Iateo County. The two
parcels first named were acquired in 1860, after the marriage
of Mrs. Hawes with the intestate, and were, therefore, "con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

mon" property. The other parcels were the separate property
of the decedent. All those parcels were in the hands of the
administratrix, because, by the law of California, a personal
representative, whether executor or administrator, is required to
take possession of all the estate, real and personal, of the decedent; and his possession for the purpose, among other things,
of partition, is that of the heirs or devisees, although their
possession is subject to his for purposes of administration.
Code of Civil Procedure, § 1581.
On the day last named, Caroline Hawes instituted proceedings in the Probate Court, of the city and county of San
Francisco, to obtain a final settlement of her accounts, and to
have a distribution and partition of the estate remaining in her
hands, as administratrix, between herself and the minor children, according to their respective rights, and pursuant to the
statute in sich cases made and provided. To that end she
prayed that an order be made "directing that all persons interested in this estate appear before this court at a time and
place to be specified, not less than four, or more than ten
weeks from the time of making said order, to show cause why
an order should not be granted directing that partition be
made in said estate, and that distribution be made of the estate of Horace Hawes, deceased; and that partition be made
of the real estate thereof, among the persons entitled thereto;
or if the same cannot otherwise be fairly divided, that the
same be sold and the proceeds distributed among those entitled; or that such other or further or different order may be
made as will be just and proper in the premises."
Upon that petition an order was made that all persons interested in the estate appear before the court on the 23d of
September, 1875, to show cause why the final account filed by
the administratrix should not be settled, allowed, and approved. That order also declares:
"And whdreas said account is for final settlement, and it
duly appearing that said estate is ready for distribution, and
that, upon confirmation of said final account, distribution and
partition of all said estate to all persons entitled thereto has
been duly demanded:

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Statement of the Case.

"It is further ordered, that all persons interested in said estate, be and appear before said court, at the time and place
aforesaid, without further notice or proceeding therefor, and
then and there show cause, if any they have, why distribution of the residue of said estate should not be made among
the heirs at law of said deceased, according to law and the respective rights of all the parties; and, also, at the same place,
immediately after decree of distribution of said estate is made,
without further notice, to show cause why said court shall not
make an order appointing commissioners, or a commissioner,
as it may seem best, to make partition and division of said estate among the heirs at law of said deceased, according to the
respective rights of the parties and the decree of distribution,
and to set aside to each his and her share, according to the
proportions decreed to him, her, or them, or to report his or
their inability to make partition of the whole or certain part
or parts of said estate without sale, or without prejudice or inconvenience, and also to report and find the true value of all
said real estate belonging to said estate.
"And it is further ordered, that notice of the foregoing be
given by publication, and that a copy hereof be published
once a week for four successive weeks, before said 23d day of
March, 1875, in the Daily Eearminer, a daily newspaper
printed and published in said city and county."
Subsequently, the Probate Court made the following order:
"Whereas, Chas. H. Sawyer, a competent attorney at law,
has hitherto represented Horace Hawes and Caroline C.
Hawes, minors, heirs of said deceased:
"It is now by the court here ordered, that said Chas. I.
Sawyer, an attorney at law and of this court, be and is hereby
appointed to represent said minors, Horace Hawes and Caroline C. Hawes, in the partition and distribution of said estate
and all other proceedings, when all of the parties in said estate
or said heirs are required to be notified thereof.
"Done in open court this 29th day of March, 18,75.1'
On the same day a decree was passed, "J. C. Bates
appearing on behalf of said administratrix, and Chas. H. Sawyer, Esq., appearing on behalf of Horace Hawes and Caroline

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

d. Hawes. children of said deceased," - which found and
declared: That it appeared to the satisfaction of the court
that due and sufficient notice of the time and place of hearing
of said petition for distribution and partition had been given,
as required by law; that the final accounts of the administratrix had been duly settled by the court, and that the estate
was "in proper condition for distribution and partition, and to
be finally closed;" that certain portions of said real estate
were common property, and the residue was separate property; that the widow was entitled to an undivided half,
and the two children together to an undivided half, of the
former, while the widow and the children were each entitled
to an undivided one-third of the latter. It was adjudged and
decreed that all the acts and records of the administratrix,
appearing upon the records of the estate, be approved and confirmed, and that the residue of said estate "be and the same is
hereby distributed" as follows: One undivided half of Mission Block No. 44, and the southeasterly part of Mission Block
No. 8, less a certain school lot, to Caroline Hawes, and the other
undivided half to the two children; and an undivided third
to the widow of Mission Block No. 2, the fifty-vara lot No.
205, and of the lands in San Mateo County; and the remaining
two-thirds thereof, undivided, to the children, share and share
alike. The decree concludes with a particular description of
the several parcels of land so distributed.
The judgment-roll of the proceedings in the Probate Court
also contains this order:
"The petition of Caroline Hlawes, administratrix and heir at
law of the estate of Horace Hawes, deceased, for partition of
said estate, according to law, coming on regularly to be heard
this 29th day of March, 1875, immediately after the decree distributing said real estate being made, J. C. Bates appearing
for said petitioner, and Chas. H. Sawyer, Esq., appearing for
and representing Horace Hawes and Caroline 0. Hawes,
minor heirs of said deceased, and upon consent in open court
of all parties interested to the appointment of James L. King,
sole commissioner for the purposes of partition and division of
the estate of said deceased:

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Statement of the Case.

"And said court deeming it just and proper that said James
L. King be appointed sole commissioner for such purposes, and
all and singular the law and the premises being by the court
here seen, heard, understood, and fully considered:
"Whereupon, it is now by the court here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that partition and division of said real estate,
described in the decree of distribution herein, be made in accordance with the rights of the parties as determined by said
decree of distribution.
"And it is further ordered, that the said James L. King be
and he is hereby appointed sole commissioner for that purpose,
and whose duty it shall be to make partition and division of
said real estate described in said decree of distribution, in accordance with the rights and interests of the respective parties
as therein determined, and make report of the proceedings
and partition in writing to this court.
"Done in open court this twenty-ninth day of March, A. D.
1875."
On the 2d of April, 1875, Charles II. Sawyer, as said attorney for the minor heirs, and J. C. Bates, as attorney for
the widow and administratrix, acknowledged service of a
written notice from King, as commissioner, that he would, on
the eighth day of that month and year, at his office, in the
city of San Francisco, "proceed to make partition of the property described in the decree of distribution in [of] said estate,
in accordance with the rights of respective parties as therein described."
On the 13th of April, 1875, the commissioner made his report in which it is stated that, in making the division and
partition of the property, he was attended by Mr. Sawyer, as
attorney for the minor heirs of the decedent, and by Mr. Bates,
as attorney for the widow; that, after a thorough examination
of the premises, he made the partition and division, the estate
in each county being divided separately among all the heirs as
.if there were no other estate to be divided. He allotted to the
widow and the two children each an undivided one-third of
all the land in San Mateo County; to the widow one-half, and
to the children one-fourth each, of Mission Block No. 44, in

OCTOBER TERA,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

the city of San Francisco, each part being described by metes
and bounds; to the widow, the southeasterly part of :Mission
Block No. 8, in the same city; to the children, each, one-half
of Mission Block No. 2, in San Francisco, each part being described by metes and bounds; and to the widow, the whole of
said fifty-vara lot, being 137- feet square. This report was
confirmed on the 19th of April, 1875,the order of confirmation
reciting, among other things, the appearance of Bates for the
widow and of Sawyer as the attorney appointed to defend for
the minor heirs.
Chapter X of the Code of Civil Procedure treats "of accounts rendered by executors and administrators, and of the
payment of debts." Among the provisions in that chapter is
one to the effect that if the account rendered by an executor
or administrator "is for a 'final settlement, and the estate is
ready for distribution and partition, the notice thereof required to be published must state these facts; and on confirmation of the final account, distribution and partition of
the estate to all entitled thereto must be immediately had,
without further notice or proceeding."
The succeeding chapter relates to the "Partition, Distribution, and Final Settlement of Estates." By § 1665 it is
provided that "upon the final settlement of the accounts of
the executor or administrator, or at any subsequent time, upon
the application of the executor or administrator, or of any heir,
legatee, or devisee, the court must proceed to distribute the
residue of the estate in the hands of the executor or administrator, if any, among the persons who by law are entitled
thereto."
"Section 1666. In the order or decree the court must name
the persons, and the proportions or parts to which each shall
be entitled, and such persons may demand, sue for, and recover their respective shares from the executor or administrator, or any person having the same in possession. Such order
or decree is conclusive as to the rights of heirs, legatees, or devisees, subject only to be reversed, set aside, or modified on
appeal."
"Section 1668. The order or decree may be made on the

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Statement of the Case.

petition of the executor or administrator, or of any person interested in the estate. Notice of the application must be given
by posting or publication, as the court may direct, and for
such time as may be ordered. If partition be applied for as
provided in this chapter the decree of distribution shall not
divest the court of jurisdiction to order partition, unless the
estate is finally closed."
"Section 1675. When the estate, real orpersonal, assigned by
the decree of distribution to two or more heirs, devisees, or legatees, is in common and undivided, and the respective shares are
not separated and distinguished, partition or distribution may
be made by three disinterested persons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by the Probate Court or judge, who
must be duly sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties.
A certified copy of the order of their appointment, and of the
order or decree assigning and distributing the estate, must be
issued to them as their warrant, and their oath must be indorsed thereon. Upon consent of the parties, or when the
court deems it proper and just, it is sufficient to appoint one
commissioner only, who has the same authority, and is governed by the same rules as if three were appointed.
"Section 1676. Such partition may be ordered and had in
the Probate Court on the petition of any person interested.
But before commissioners are appointed, or partition ordered
by the Probate Court, as directed in this chapter, notice thereof
must be given to all persons interested, who reside in this
State, or to their guardians, and to the agents, attorneys or
guardians, if a~ny in this State, of such as reside out of the
State, either personally or by public notice, as the Probate
Court may direct. The petition may be filed, attorneys, guardians, and agents appointed, and notice given at any time before the order or decree of distribution, but the commissioners
must not be appointed until the order or decree is made distributing the estate.
"Section 1677. If the real estate is in different counties, the
Probate Court may, if deemed proper, appoint commissioners
for all, or different commissioners for each county. The estate
in each county must be divided separately among the heirs,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

devisees, or legatees, as if there was no other estate to be
divided, but the commissioners first appointed must, unless
otherwise directed by the Probate Court, make division of
such real estate, wherever situated within this State.
"Section 1678. Partition or distribution of the real estate
may be made as provided in this chapter, although some of
the original heirs, legatees, or devisees may have conveyed
their shares to other persons, and such shares must be assigned
to the person holding the same, in the same manner as they
otherwise would have been to such heirs, legatees, or devisees.
"Section 1679. When both distribution and partition are
made, the several shares in the real and personal estate must
be set out to each individual in proportion to his right, by
metes and bounds, or description, so that the same can be
easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties interested consent to have their shares set out so as to be held by
them in common and undivided.
"Section 1680. When the real estate cannot be divided
without prejudice or inconvenience t6 the owners, the Probate
Court may assign the whole to one or more of the parties
entitled to share therein, who will accept it, always preferring
the males to the females, and among children preferring the
-elder to the younger. The parties accepting the whole must
pay to the other parties interested their just proportion of the
true value thereof, or secure the same to their satisfaction, or,
in case of the minority of such party, then to the satisfaction
of his guardian, and the true value of the estate must be ascertained and reported by the commissioners. When the commissioners appointed to make partition are of the opinion that the
real estate cannot be divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, they must so report -to the court, and
recommend that the whole be assigned as herein provided, and
must find and report the true value of such real estate. On
filing the report of the commissioners, and on making or securing the payment, as before provided, the court, if it appears
just and proper, must confirm the report, and thereupon the
assignment is cqmplete, and the title to the whole of such real
estate vests in the person to whom the same is so assigned.

ROBLNSON v. FAIR.
Statement of the Case.

"Section 1681. When any tract of land or tenement is of
greater value than any one's share in the estate to be divided,
and cannot be divided without injury to the same, it may be
set off by the commissioners appointed to make partition to
any of the parties who will accept it, giving preference as prescribed in the preceding section. The party accepting must
pay or secure to the others such sums as the commissioners
shall award to make the partition equal, and the commissioners must make their award accordingly; but such partition must not be established by the court until the sums
awarded are paid to the parties entitled tothe same, or secured
to their satisfaction.
"Section 1682. When it appears to the court, from the
commissioners' report, that it cannot otherwise be fairly
divided, and should be sold, the court may order the sale of
the whole or any part of the estate, real or personal, by the
executor or administrator, or by a commissioner appointed for
that purpose, and the proceeds distributed. The sale must be
conducted, reported, and confirmed in the same manner and
under the same requirements provided in Article IV, Chapter
VII of this Title.
'" Section 1683. Before any partition is made or any estate
divided, as provided in this chapter, notice must be given to all
persons interested in the partition, their guardians, agents, or
attorneys, by the commissioners, of the time and place, when
and where they shall proceed to make partition. The commissioners may take testimony, order surveys, and take such
other steps as may be necessary to enable them to form a
judgment upon the matters before them.
"Section 1684. The commissioners must report their pr6-,
ceedings, and the partition agreed upon by them, to the Probate
Court, in writing, and the court may, for sufficient reasons, set
aside the report and commit the same to the same commissioners, or appoint others; and when such report is finally confirmed, a certified copy of the judgment or decree of partition
made thereon, attested by the clerk, under the seal of the
court, must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county where the land lies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

"Section 1685. When the Probate Court makes a judgment
or decree assigning the residue of any estate to one or more persons entitled to the same, it is not necessary to appoint commissioners to make partition or distribution thereof, unless
the parties to whom the assignment is decreed, or some of
them, request that such partition be made.
"Section 1686. All questions as to advancements made, or
alleged to have been made, by the decedent to his heirs, may
be heard and determined by the Probate Court, and must be
specified in the decree assigning and distributing the estate;
and the final judgment or decree of the Probate Court, or, in
case of appeal, of the Supreme Court, is binding on all parties
interested in the estate."
.Mr. J. C. Bates and _A&. John A. Campbell for plaintiffs in
error.
The Constitution of 1863 was in force during the period
covering the probate partition proceedings impeached in this
case.
That Constitution provided for several courts, and declared
and conferred their several jurisdictions.
It is evident that a Probate Court is erected by § 8, Art.
VI, of that instrument, for each county, to consist of the
county judge sitting as a judge of probate.
The common law and equity jurisdiction is divided between the County Court sitting as a court of law of general
jurisdiction, and the District Court sitting as a court of, general law and equity jurisdiction.
The former is given jurisdiction of actions of forcible entry
and detainer, to prevent or abate nuisances of special proceedings and cases, and such criminal jurisdiction as the legislature shall prescribe.
The latter is given jurisdiction in all cases in equity, in all
cases at law involving the title or possession of real property
or the legality of any tax, etc., and in all other cases in which
the demand, exclusive of interest, or the value of the property
in controversy, amounts to $300.

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The statute, authorizing the partition proceedings had in
this case by the Probate Court, can only be valid on the
assumption that the Constitution has either expressly vested
jurisdiction over partition proceedings in the Probate Court,
or has authorized the legislature to do so. The legislature
cannot enlarge the jurisdiction of a constitutional court;
Came,'orm v. Kenfeld, 57 Cal. 550; or vest in another court
that jurisdiction which the Constitution has placed in one
designated therein. Zander v. Coe, 5 Cal. 230; Appeal of 8.
0. Houghton, 42 Cal. 35; Will of Bowen, 34 Cal. 682;
Willis v. arley, 24 Cal. 490; Tilson v. Roach, 4 Cal. 362;
Rosenberg v. rank, 58 Cal. 387.
The Constitution has vested jurisdiction over partition proceedings in the District Court as a court of equity by virtue
of the grant of jurisdiction "in all cases in equity" where the
remedy is sought in equity; and as a court of law, under the
jurisdiction given of all cases at law which involve the title
or possession of real property; where the remedy is sought
in partition proceedings at law. This jtarisdiction is thus vested
because partition proceedings under the settled principles of'
our jurisprudence, in the light of which the Constitution!
speaks, are proceedings in equity or at law, and are cases in.
equity or at law according as the one forum or the other is.
sought.
Actions at law for partition existed at the common layw in,
the case of Parceners prior to the reign of Henry VIII, and,
in that reign the right to a writ of partition was given to tenants in common. 1 Washburn Real Prop. c. 13, § 7; 1 Spence.
Eq. Jur. 162; Freeman, Co-tenancy and Partition, § 420.
Courts of equity assumed a jurisdiction over partition proceedings based not upon statute, but upon the inadequacy of:
the legal remedy. 1 Spence Eq. Jur. 642, 653, 654; Freeman, Co-tenancy and Partition, § 423.
Partition jurisdiction, being a twofold jurisdiction, one at
law, the other in equity, conferred by the Constitution upon.
the District Court, such jurisdiction was exclusive in that
court. It could not be vested by the legislature, either as a.
concurrent or an exclusive jurisdiction in another court, unless;
VOL.' CXx-VM-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

authority to that effect was given expressly or by necessary
implication by the Constitution.
The grant of probate jurisdiction is in these words: "The
county judges shall also hold in their several counties Probate Court, and perform such duties as probate judges as
may be prescribed by law." If partition jurisdiction is or
may be vested in the Probate Court, it must be either because
the last clause, "as may be prescribed by law," empowers the
legislature to impress a jurisdiction properly at law or in
equity with a probate character, and thereupon vest it in the
Probate Court, or, in other words, to vest in the Probate
Court other than strictly probate jurisdiction; or because probate jurisdiction, either as received from the English law or
as remodelled in America, includes a limited partition jurisdiction as a part and incident thereof. Neither position is
tenable.
In Rosenberg v. Ftrank, 58 Cal. 402, the court said: "It
seems from the above [Art. VI, § 8, Cal. Const.] that the legislature may make the jurisdiction of the probate judge or court
what it pleases, within the limits of that jurisdiction which is
understood as usually pertaining to Probate Courts. But the
position that it can, under this power, take away from the
District Courts any of the equity jurisdiction conferred on
them by the Constitution, is manifestly untenable."
Similar clauses have been construed as not empowering the
legislature to extend the powers of a Probate Court beyond
the proper and established bounds of the established probate
jurisdiction, as known to American and English jurisprudence.
Feris v. fHigley, 20 Wall. 373; Cast v. Cast, 1 Utah, 112;
Locknane v. A-fartin, McKahon (Kan.), 60; -Moore v. -iToubly,
1 Idaho, 54. The construction is rational.
The conclusion is irresistible from the foregoing considerations, that § 8 of Art. VI authorizes the legislature to confer
on the Probate Court _probate powers a/nd jurisdiction,and
those only. Unless the power to partition among heirs is a
probate power, and the jurisdiction over partition proceedings
is a part of the probate jurisdiction recognized in the AngloAmerican jurisprudence, the provisions of the statute and code

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

for partition by the Probate Court were void, and the partition
proceedings, under which the defendant in this action claims,
were cora~'f nonjudiee and absolutely void.
Partition is not a part of the probate jurisdiction derived
from England and exercised in America by Probate or Surrogate Courts.
The Probate and Surrogate Courts in America are the
lineal successors of the ecclesiastical courts of Great Britain.
Payne's Will, 4 T. B. Mon. 423.
Our state constitutions recognize three civil jurisdictions,
derived from the jurisprudence of England: law, equity and
probate, and distribute them to the several tribunals. To the
limits of these several jurisdictions, as exercised by the several
judicatories of England, our courts look for the boundaries of
the judications deposited by our organic laws in the several
state courts. The jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts was
exercised, with certain exceptions immaterial for the purpose
of this head, over the personal estate only. Toller's Executors,
67, 80. The mere distribution or declaration of the rights of
the next of kin to the undisposed-of residue in the case of
intestacy, and the enforcement of the surrender by the administrator, an officer of the court, to the kin of that residue, was
the extent of the power exercised by the ecclesiastical courts.
The partition of that residue was left to the voluntary action
of the kin, or to their coerced action in obedience to the decree
of a court of law or equity.
Although there is a seeming appropriateness in the exercise
of a limited power of partition by the Probate Court, and although on a superficial view, such a power appears to be analogous to, and a legitimate extension of the process of distribution, yet neither position is true. The inappropriateness of
the exercise of such a power becomes more apparent -when the
incongruous and alien nature of that portion of the activity of
a Probate Court has been demonstrated and illustrated. Partition is not analogous to and is not a legitimate extension of
the process of distribution. This proposition is based upon the
distinction between partition and probate proceedings in natures, object and operation. This distinction is twofold.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

1. Briefly stated, the object of administration is not to
enforce a remedial right, or to transfer property. Its exclusive
purpose and operation is to manage the estate as in receivership for the payment of debts and to announce authoritatively
a legal succession. No proceeding of the former description
properly belongs to administration. Partition involves an enforcement by the judicial decree of a remedial right and the
motion of property rights inter vivos.
2. Administration has exclusively to do with rights which
spring from the succession, i.e., out of the fact and process of
inheritance. When the Probate Court deals with other rights,
it departs from its legitimate conventional and customary
sphere, and overleaps the boundaries of its jurisdiction.
This character of the probate jurisdiction runs through the
entire Anglo-American jurisprudence.
The jurisdiction is a jurisdiction of management over an
undisputed fund in the custody of the court for administration purposes, - to wit, for the payment of debts and for the
support of the family during administration. The moment
activities diverging from this narrow thread of function are
required, the domain of a diverse jurisdiction, not a jurisdiction
of management but a remedial jurisdiction, must be entered.
The Probate Court can appoint an executor or administrator, and direct him, by successive orders extending to the
close of the administration, to collect assets, to sell property,
to pay debts, to apply so much of the funds in his hands as
shall be necessary to defray funeral expenses and to support
the family and to protect the fund, and finally direct him to
deliver so much of the funds as shall be necessary in satisfaction of legacies and to surrender the residue to the heirs.
All activities outside this narrow channel, bounded in the
beginning by the death and at the end by the distribution, and
laterally by the limits of management, belong to law or equity.
And the test of the new province, and of the externality from
the terminal or lateral boundaries of the probate jurisdiction,
is the question whether those activities involve adversary litigation involving remedial rights and issuing in judgments enforcing such rights by the transfer of property.

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The proceedings in a Probate Court, preceding distribution,
are not in any particular adversary proceedings, involving the
assertion of a remedial right, and issuing in a judgment accomplishing a transfer of property rights. The decree of distribution is equally devoid of that character. It neither gives,
creates, nor transfers any rights of property.
The proceedings resulting in the decree are in the nature of
an inquisition to ascertain who are the persons upon whom the
law has cast the succession and to what interests. The decree,
when pronounced, is simply declaratory. It announces what
rights were given at the death by the law, and to whom: It
is a declaration which concludes all parties to the proceeding.
But it does not purport, and in theory of law does not create
or transfer any rights. If in practice it thus operates, it is in
consequence of error in the exercise of jurisdiction.
Partition, on the contrary, is essentially an adversary proceeding in which a remedial right to the transfer of property
is asserted, and a proceeding issuing in a judgment amoving
or transferring that property.
Where partition by judicial proceedings is had between two
tenants in common, an interchange of property rights is accomplished by the judgment. The right of possession to one
moiety of the lands by metes and bounds is divested from one
tenant and transferred to the other. He is compelled to accept, as a substitute, the right of possession theretofore belonging to the other tenant to the moiety by metes and bounds
assigned to him. The property of which he is divested is the
title and right of possession of a tract of land awarded to
the other, together with the incident rights, the right of entry,
the right of user, the right to maintain trespass, etc. The proceeding is strictly analogous to a proceeding in equity, to compel the specific performance of a contract to exchange land.
The contract of exchange being established, the law gives a
remedial right to each party to the reciprocal exchange of the
titles and rights of possession of the respective parcels of' land.
The judgment ex propiio vigore (under the laws of some
States), or as executed, accomplishes the transfer.
In partition, the fact of the tenancy being established, the

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

law gives a remedial right to the reciprocal exchange of the
,right of possession with the incident rights, to several distinct
moieties of the entire tract and of the title to undivided moieties of such moieties. The judgment accomplishes the change.
But there are two matters of law which establish beyond
possible question or cavil, that in partition, property consisting both of title and right of possession is and must be transferred by the judgment in possession.
(1) This results from the fact that at common law partition could not be accomplished without the transfer of an
estate by the voluntary act of the parties. And the judicial
proceeding is a compulsory transfer by and through the judgment of a court, substituted for the voluntary process by the
parties.
(2) That partition involves the transfer of an estate or
property is evidenced by the theory and foundation of the proceeding in equity to compel the specific performance of a parol
partition.
The statute of frauds is satisfied by the part performance
accomplished by the actual severance of possession. Equity
will treat each tenant as possessed of the legal title to one-half
of his allotment and of the equitable title to the other half
of the same, and will compel a conveyance by the cotenant.
This proceeds exclusively on the theory that each tenant in common can have a title to one-half only, of any specified parcel
of the whole tract, and can only acquire the other half through
the medium of a conveyance. Freeman Cotenantry and Partition, § 402 and cases cited.
Administration has exclusively to do with rights which
spring out of the fact of succession. When it deals with other
rights, it departs from its legitimate, conventional and customary sphere.
Partition deals with a remedial right springing out of the
nature of the property and attaching thereto under a law other
than that of succession.
The exercise of a power of partition by the Probate Court
is in no sense appropriate. It is an incongruous and alien
activity as established by the foregoing discussion. It is also

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

inappropriate by reason of the inadequate powers of that
court. The Probate Court can only partition the legal interest cast. It can determine no other title. It cannot adjust,
as can equity, the equities between the parties; making pro,
visions for liens and incumbrances and variant values in different parcels of the property.
The Probate Court exercises, under our law, more extensive
powers in the administration of estates than did the ecclesiastical courts of England. For instance; American courts,
under statute authority, take jurisdiction of wills of real estate,
and in all cases, whether of testacy or intestacy, land is assets
to be administered upon. Yet no such powers were exercised
by the ecclesiastical courts. American courts render decrees
of distribution in cases of testacy as well as of intestacy, yet
the ecclesiastical courts could render no such decree except in
case of intestacy. The American Probate Courts exercise also,
by authority of statute, more enlarged powers in the direction
and control of executors and administrators.
In none of these cases is more done by the legislature than
to grant to a tribunal, whose powers are strictly dependent
upon statute, more extended powers within its legitimate domain. So long as the powers granted consist in nothing more
than powers over its officers and the estate in its custody for
administration, or in powers to announce judicially the course
of succession, the bounds of its legitimate jurisdiction are not
passed. The moment the court is given power to entertain
proceedings to enforce remedial rights, and to render judgments amoving, or, when executed, accomplishing the amotion
of property, that moment the boundaries of its jurisdiction are
passed.
Wherever partition powers are or have been exercised by
Probate Courts, in the United States, it has been by express
authority of statute and as an alien power in the Probate
Court.
Had a limited partition power been generally exercised by
Probate Courts in the United States, as an incident of distribution in the absence of statutory authorization, this fact might
warrant the inference, that in the opinion of the bench and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiffs in E rror.

bar of America, such power belonged to the immemorial probate jurisdiction. But where the power is exclusively statutory and so recognized wherever exercised, the fact of its
exercise has no tendency to establish that it is a legitimate
part of probate jurisdiction.
The power exercised by Probate Courts to partition, wherever it exists is based on statute. ALABAMA: see Toulman's
Digest of the Laws of Alabama, 1823, 333, § 43; Ala. Code,
1852, § 670; Rev. Code Ala. 1867, § 3105; Bryant v. Stearns,
16 Ala. 302; Coker v. Pitts, 37 Ala. 692.

CONNECTICT: see

Public Statute Laws of Conn. 1838, 234, Tit. 31, c. 1, § 29;
Statutes of Conn. 1854, 502, § 53; Gates v. Treat, 17 Conn.
388. INDIANA: see Rev. Stat. 1843, 811, 812, §§ 114, 115, 116 ;
Rev. St. Ind. 1881, §§ 1186, 1187; Skull v. Kennon, 12 Ind. 34;
Bennet v. East, 7 Ind. 174. LouisIANA: see Hooke v. -Hooke,
6 La. 0. S. 569 (420). MAi-E: see 1 Smith's Laws of MSIaine,
239, c. 50, §§ 31, 38; :ev. Stat. Maine, 1840-41, 449, c. 108,
§ 1; Rev. Stat. 1883, 550, §§ 8, 9; Earlv. Rowe. 35 Maine, 414;
S. C. 58 Am. Dec. 714.

MAscluSEm'rs : see Provincial Stat.

Mass. c. 13, Jan. 5, 1753, Ancient Charter, 594; Stat. Mass.
1817, c. 190; Gen. Stat. Mass. 1860, 490, §§ 14, 48, 65. "All
the authority which the judge of probate has, upon this subject,
is derived from the statute of 1817, c. 190;" per Wilde, J., in
lFainrightv. Dorr, 13 Pick. 333; Arms v. -Lyman,5 Pick.
210; Sigourney v. Sibley, 22 Pick. 507; S. C. 33 Am. Dec. 762;
Bemis v. Stearns, 16 Mass. 200; Jenks v. Towland, 3 Gray,
536; Gordon v. Pearson,1 Mass. 323. MIssissIP.i: see Statutes of M iss. (Howard and Hutchinson's), 1840, 412, § 89,
471, § 14; Smith v. Craig, 10 Sm. & Marsh. 447; Our-ie v.
Stewart, 26 Mississippi, 649; Lur v. Reed, 53 Mississippi, 73.
NFwv HAirPsHi.r: see Comp. Stat. N. H1. (6d. 1853) 393, § 6;
Wadleigh v. Janvreen, 41 N. HI. 503; S. C. 77 Am. Dec. 780.
INnw JERsEY: see Revised Laws of N. J. 1821, 780, § 13;
Nixon's Dig. Laws of N. J. 668, § 10; D)en ex dern Richman
v. Baldwin, 1 Zabriskie (21 N. J. Law), 395; Curtis v. Jenkins,
Spencer (20 N. J. Law), 679. PENNsyLV ANIA: see I Brightly's
Purdon's Dig. Laws of Penn. 1700-1872, 433, § 138; Bishop's
Appeal, 7 W. & S. 251; Selfridge's Appeal, 9 W. & S. 55;

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Faln'sAipeal, 4 Penn. St. 502. TENNESSEE: The County Court
has jurisdiction of the probate wills; Code Tenn. 1858, § 2169;
Stat. Tenn. 1831, Heywood and Cobb's Revision, 103, § 47.
The County, Circuit, and Chancery Courts have concurrent
jurisdiction. Statutes Tenn. 1831, Revision, Heywood and
Cobbs, 244; Tenn. Code, 1858, § 3266; Wilcox v. Cannon, 1
Coldwell, 379. Vn-.ro.-'r: Laws of Vermont, down to 1824,
349, 350, §§ 79, 83; Rev. Laws Vermont, 1880, §§ 2252-2260;
Grice v. Randall, 23 Vt. 239. WisconsiN: Rev. Stat. Wis.
1849, 380-1-2 ; Rev. Stat. Wis. 1858, 605-6-7 ; Rev. Stat. Wis.
1878, § 3942-3955. MriNEsoTA: Stat. of Minn. 1851, 260, § 5;
Stat. of Minn. 1878, 597, § 6. SouTr CAroILA: 11 Stat. S. C.
44, § 26; 6 Stat. S. C. 248; Rev. Stat. S. C. (1872) 573,
§ 41; Faust v. Baiey, 5 Rich. (S. C. Law) 107; Davenport
v. Glaidwell, 10 S. 0. 317; Gates v. Irick, 2 Rich. (S. C. Law),
593.
It is recognized in all the cases, as of statutory origin. In
none are there any suggestions that it is an original or legitimate element or incident of administration.
Whenever the question of its relation to the latter jurisdiction has been noticed, it has been noticed as something foreign
thereto, and as an alien jurisdiction conferred upon the Probate Court in consequence of some local views of convenience.
(JuI',e v. Stewart, ubi &usoqa; Davenport v. Caldwell, ubi
supi)a; Srmith v. Craig, ubi supra; Wainwr-igkt v. Dorr,ubi
supy a; Griee v. Randall, ubi supra. The sole question in this
case is, were the proceedings in partition in the Probate
Court of San Francisco without jurisdiction? Of course, if
the court has jurisdiction of the proceedings and the persons,
whether it be a court of inferior or general jurisdiction, the
decision of the Probate Court is conclusive except on appeal.
The cases cited on behalf of the defendant in error all proceed
on the assumption that the Probate Court had jurisdiction in
the States in question, and the presumption was correct. In
this case and in California the contention is that the Probate
Court had no jurisdiction; that the proceedings were absolutely void and not merely voidable; and it is an elementary
principle that such proceedings are nullities and subject to
collateral as well as direct attack.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

In the absence of a constitutional distribution of jurisdictions, and in the absence of an express or necessarily implied
prohibition, it is beyond doubt, that the legislature can vest a
particular jurisdiction in any court it may appoint. For the
purpose, therefore, of determining the constitutionality of the
California statute, a distinction must be taken between the
decisions of those States where such constitutional distributions of jurisdictions and prohibitions exist and of those States
where they do not. The legislation, practice, and decisions of
the latter must be laid aside.
It is argued that the statute simply brings into this State
the practice and usage in the matter of partition by Probate
Courts which generally prevail in other States. It is urged
by inference that the constitution, in providing probate jurisdiction in the Probate Court, contemplated that jurisdiction,
not in its purity and simplicity as derived from Great Britain,
but as amplified in America. It is supposed that the jurisdiction in question has been remodelled in America by the practice of the States, and partition power incorporated into it,
and that the state constitution speaks with reference to that
American probate jurisdiction.
But to adopt such a principle is to violate all the rules of construction to enable the significance of constitutional provisions
to vary with variable custom, and to enable a judicial remodelling, according to the whim of the times, of our constitutions,
destructive of the rigidity and integrity of our constitutional
framework of government. It is not true that there is an
American probate jurisdiction different in essential quality
and nature from that of the courts of administration of England. It is true that a partition power has been expressly
conferred upon Probate Courts in certain States; but this has
not been done in all, and, in fact, has been done in less than
a majority.
Such a power has been so conferred in Maine, Alassachusetts, Connecticut, Vermont, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, Alabama, Rhode Island, Indiana, Ohio, and Tennessee.
In M1ississippi the court, by virtue of its constitutional juris-

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

diction over orphans' business, can partition an estate where
some of the tenants in common are minors.
In Texas and Louisiana, the same court has constitutional
jurisdiction over matters at law and in equity and of administration.
In Kentucky and North Carolina the same court is a court
of law and equity and a Court of Probate, but the partition
power is not given to it as a Probate Court.
In South Carolina, although up to 1814 the Probate Court
had a statutory partition power, yet it is held that such power
is not a part of the probate jurisdiction.
But no such power has been conferred upon the Probate
Court in New York, Virginia, West Virginia, Georgia, Florida,
Missouri, Iowa, Illinois, Arkansas, Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado,
and Maryland. In the latter State jurisdiction to partition
the estates of decedents was given to the county courts by the
statute of November, 1786, c. 45, § 8; while under the act
of February, 1'777, § 8, the orphans' court had exclusive probate jurisdiction. This distinction continues at the present
time. Revised Code, Maryland, 1878, 430-432 and 407-8.
On no assumption can it be maintained, as a matter of law,
that the power of partition was a part of the probate jurisdiction, which it was competent for the legislature to vest in
Probate Courts under the California Constitution of 1863.
That power was indisputably no part of the probate jurisdiction derived from England.
Wherever the question has been decided, the American
courts have pronounced it no part of the probate jurisdiction,
as specified by the constitutions.
On principle, it belongs to the jurisdictions at law and in
equity, and not to probate.
Wherever such a power has been exercised in America, by
Probate Courts, it has been by virtue of express statute, and
in all such cases the constitutional power to enact such statutes existed in the legislature, by reason of the absence of
express or implied constitutional prohibitions.
On no substantial principle can the Constitution of California be made to speak with reference to the variant practice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

a minority of the States, so as to make the probate jurisdiction conferred by that Constitution comprehend that statutory
power of partition deposited in Probate Courts in those States.
The counsel further contended: (1) that the administratrix
was not a competent party to prosecute a suit for the partition
of the real property, which had descended to the heirs at law,
and was in the possession of the heirs at the time when the
consent order of the two attorneys and of the court was
adopted; (2) that the order made, appointing the commissioner, had no validity; (3) that the minor heirs had not been
served with any process, directly, nor by service upon a general guardian or a guardian ad litem; (4) that the Probate
Court had no authority to appoint an attorney of the court to
represent these parties in this cause, nor to bind them by any
agreement he should make; (5) that the Court of Probate did
not acquire jurisdiction over the persons of these plaintiffs.
.2fr.Samuel -M. Wilson for defendant in error.
Mn JUsTicn-

HAnLA,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
.The principal assignment of error is, that, under the Constitution of California prior to 1880, the Probate Court could not
take jurisdiction of a proceeding to partition real estate. It is
contended that its control over the estate ceased when it approved the final settlement, and, by a decree of distribution,
defined the nature and extent of the interests of the heirs in
the remaining estate of the decedent. A partition severing
the unity of possession among the heirs, and investing each
with a. right, as against the others, to the exclusive possession
and ownership of distinct parts of the estate, could not, it is
insisted, have been constitutionally effected by proceedings in
a Probate Court. These questions have received the most
careful consideration, as well because of their intrinsic importance, as because their determination by this court, as we are
informed by counsel, may seriously affect the title to large
bodies of land in California.

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

Tracing the course of legislation in California in reference
to the jurisdiction and powers of the Probate Courts of that
State, we find that the first statute upon the subject is that of
April 22, 1850, entitled "An Act to regulate the Settlement of
the Estates of Deceased Persons." Stat. California, 1850-53,
c. 129, p. 377. Another statute was passed May 1, 1851, having a similar title, and covering the same subject. Compiled
Laws California 1850, c.120, pp. 377 to 423. The provisions
of these statutes relating to proceedings in the Probate Courts
for the final settlement, distribution, and partition of estates
were continued without material change, and the powers of
those courts enlarged, by the Code of Civil Procedure. The
sections of the code bearing upon the question of the jurisdiction and powers of those courts are too numerous to be incorporated in this opinion. It is sufficient to say that upon a
careful examination of them, we are of opinion that it was the
intention of the legislature to invest Probate Courts with authority, in connection with, and as ancillary or supplementary
to, the settlement and distribution of estates, to make partition
of real property - where the title of the deceased owner and
the heirship of .the parties are undisputed-so as to invest
each heir with a separate title to the particular part or parts
allotted to him by the decree of partition. No other interpretation is consistent with the words of the code. §§ 1581, 1634,
1665, 1666, 1668, 1675, 1676 to 1686, inclusive.
Does the state constitution prohibit the partition of real
estate by proceedings in a Probate Court ? The contention of
the plaintiffs is, that exclusive original jurisdiction of such
proceedings is given to District Courts, and that partition is
foreign to the probate system as recognized in that instrament.
By the constitution of California, in force at the time partition was made of the estate in question, the judicial power of
the State was "vested in a Supreme Court, in District Courts,
in County Courts, in Probate Courts, and in justices of the
peace, and in such Recorders' and other inferior courts as the
legislature may establish in any incorporated city or town;"
and the Supreme Court, the District, County, Probate, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

such other courts as the legislature should prescribe, were
declared to be courts of record. Const. of 1849, amended in
1862, Art. VI, §§ 1, 9. The Supreme Court is invested with
appellate jurisdiction in all cases in equity; in all cases at law
involving the title or possession of real estate, or the legality
of any tax, impost, assessment, toll or municipal fine, or in
which the demand, exclusive of interest, or the value of the
property in controversy, amounts to tlree hundred dollars; in
all cases arising in the Probate Courts; and in all criminal
cases amounting to felony, on questions of law. It also has
"power to issue writs of mandamus, certiorari, prohibition,
and habeas corpus, and also all writs necessary or proper to
the complete exercise of its appellate jurisdiction." Id. § 4.
The constitution of 1849 provided that the District Courts
"shall have original jurisdiction in law and equity in all civil
cases where the amount in dispute exceeds two hundred dollars, exclusive of interest. In all criminal cases not otherwise
provided for, and in all issues of fact joined in the Probate
Courts, their jurisdiction shall be unlimited." Const. 1849,
Art. VI, § 6. But in 1862 the constitution was amended, and
in lieu of that section the following was substituted: "The
District Courts shall have original jurisdiction in all cases in
equity; also, in all cases at law which involve the title or possession of real property, or the legality of any tax, impost,
assessment, toll, or municipal fine, and in all other cases in
which the demand, exclusive of interest or the value of the
property in controversy, amounts to three hundred dollars;
and also in all criminal cases not otherwise provided for. The
District Courts and their judges shall have power to issue
writs of kabeas corpus, on petition by or on behalf of any person held in actual custody, in their respective districts." Const.
1862, Art. VI, § 6.
The constitution of 1849, also, provided for the election of
a county judge in each organized county, who "shall hold the
County Court, and perform the duties of surrogate or probate
judge," and, with two justices of the peace, "shall hold Courts
of Sessions, with such criminal jurisdiction as the legislature
shall prescribe; and he shall perform such other duties as

ROBINSON v. FAIR.

79

Opinion of the Court.

shall be required by law." It was further provided that "the
County Courts shall have such jurisdiction in cases arising in
justices' courts, and in special cases, as the legislature may
prescribe, but shall have no original civil jurisdiction except
in such special cases." Const. 1849, Art. VI, §§ 8 and 9. But
by the amendments of 1862 the powers and jurisdiction of
County Courts were greatly enlarged, as will be seen from the
following section adopted in lieu of those just cited: "Section 8.
The County Courts'shall have original jurisdiction of actions
of forcible entry and detainer, of proceedings in insolvency,
of actions to prevent or abate a nuisance, and of all such special cases and proceedings as are not otherwise provided for;
and also such criminal jurisdiction as the legislature may prescribe; they shall also have appellate jurisdiction in all cases
arising in courts held by justices of the peace and recorders,
and in such inferior courts as may be established in pursuance
of section one of this article, in their respective counties. The
county judges shall also hold in their several counties Probate
Courts, and perform such duties as probate judges as may be
prescribed by law. The county courts and their judges shall
also have power to issue writs of habeas corpus, on petition by
or on behalf of any person in actual custody in their respective
counties."
The argument in behalf of the plaintiffs, briefly stated, is,
that the legislature could not confer upon County Courts
jurisdiction of suits or matters of which original jurisdiction
is given by the constitution to District Courts; that whether
a proceeding for partition be regarded as a case in equity, or
a case at law involving the title or possession of real property, it is within the original, and, therefore, exclusive jurisdiction of a District Court; and that the provision requiring
county judges to hold "Probate Courts," "and perform such
duties as probate judges as may be prescribed by law," did
not authorize the legislature to invest Probate Courts with
jurisdiction, concurrent with District Courts, in cases of which
the latter were, by express words, given original jurisdiction.
It must be confessed that some support for this position is
found in the general language employed in Zander v. Coe, 5

OCTOBER TER.M,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

California., 230, People v. .Fowler, 9 California, 85, and Caulfield v. Stevens, 28 California, 118. In Zander v. Coe, the
court proceeded upon the ground that the legislature could
not confer on one court the functions and powers which had
been conferred by the constitution upon another court. In
People v. F2owler, 9 California, 85 - where the question was
as to the constitutionality of a statute giving an appeal to
the Court of Sessions from a judgment in a criminal case tried
in a justice's court -the court, referring" to Zander v. Coe,
and previous cases, said: "The rule of construction established
by these decisions is this: That when certain powers are, in
form affirmatively, bestowed upon certain courts, they are
still exclusive, unless there be some exception specified in the
constitution itself, or the power to prescribe the cases to which
the jurisdiction should extend be expressly given to the legislature. For example: there is affirmatively conferred upon the
District Courts certain original jurisdiction in civil cases, and
there is no specified exception stated, and no power expressly
given to the legislature either to limit or increase this jurisdiction; therefore it is, as to the class of cases enumerated,
exclusive."
In Caulfeld v. Stevens, 28 California, 118, the court declared
to be unconstitutional an act empowering justices of the peace
to try actions for forcible entry, or forcible or unlawful detainer. Its validity was attempted to be maintained under
the general grant to the legislature of power to fix by law the
"powers, duties, and responsibilities" of justices of the peace.
Const. 1862, Art. VI, § 9. But the court held that the subject
of forcible entries and of forcible and unlawful detainers was
expressly committed by the constitution to County Courts,
and that the act there in question was unconstitutional.
Whether the court had in view the rule of constitutional construction announced in Zander v. Coe and People v. Fowler,
it is impossible to say; for no reference is made to either case.
As pointed out in Courtwrightv. Bear River &c. Xining Co.,
30 California, 573, the decision in Caueld v. Stevens went
beyond what was necessary to be decided; it might have been
rested entirely upon the ground that the constitution in terms

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

invested County Courts, declared to be courts of record, with
original jurisdiction of actions of forcible entry and detainer,
and the authority of the legislature to fix by law the powers,
duties, and responsibilities of justices of the peace was burdened with the condition that "such powers shall not, in any
case, trench upon the jurisdiction of the several courts of
record." Section 9.
Prior to Caufidd v. Stevens, there were two decisions in the
state court which seem to rest upon a different rule of constitutional construction, Estate of De Cast'o v. Bary, 18 California, 96, and Pery v. Aknes, 26 California, 372, 382. The
first one was a suit for partition. It was brought in a Probate Court under § 264 of the Probate Act of 1851, (Compiled
Laws of California, 1850-3, p. 415,) providing that "partition of the real estate may be made as provided in this chapter, although some of the original heirs or devisees may have
conveyed their shares to other persons, and such shares shall
be assigned to the person holding the same, in the same manner as they otherwise should have been to such heirs or devisees." That section - the words "or distribution" being
added after "partition," and "legatees" after "heirs" - is
in~orporated into the Code of Civil Procedure, § 1678. In
that case the point was made that the Probate Court had no
jurisdiction, because the petitioners were not heirs or devisees,
and, therefore, not entitled to sue in the form adopted. But
the jurisdiction of the Probate Court was sustained, on the
ground that the statute placed alienees upon the same footing
as the original heirs or devisees. While the authority of the
Probate Court was not assailed upon the ground now asserted
-namely,
that the court could not, under the Constitution,
entertain jurisdiction of a suit for partition-that question
was xecessarily involved in the case; and the decree, which
was affirmed, should have been reversed, if it be true that the
jurisdiction of the Probate Court, in cases of partition, could
not be made concurrent with that of the District Courts. In
Perry v. Arnes, the question was as to the jurisdiction of District Courts, under the State Constitution as amended in 18 2,
in cases of mandamus. It was contended that the Supreme
VOL. CXVHI-6

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

Court alone could issue a writ of mandamus, because upon
that court had been conferred, in terms, power "to issue writs

of mandamus, certiorari, prohibition, and habeas corpus, and
also all writs necessary or proper to the complete exercise of
its appellate jurisdiction," while no such power was expressly
conferred upon the District Courts. It was decided that although the Supreme Court had been invested, in terms, with
original jurisdiction in cases of mandamus, the District Courts
had the same power, in respect to that species of remedy, by
virtue of the general grant to them of jurisdiction in all civil
cases in equity and in certain specified cases at law.
But the fullest discussion as to the general question is to be
found in Cowu'twright v. Bear River, &e. .Xining Co., above
cited. The principal point there was, whether a District
Court could take jurisdiction of an action in equity to abate a
nuisance. The latter court held that it could not, for the reason that original jurisdiction of an action to prevent or abate
a nuisance is expressly granted to County Courts. Art. VI,
§ 8. But it was adjudged by the Supreme Court of the State
that the jurisdiction of County Courts of such actions was
only concurrent with that of District Courts -the latter having original jurisdiction of suits to abate nuisances under the
general grant tW them of jurisdiction in cases in equity. It
was held, that while the Constitution expressly provides that
the powers conferred upon justices of the peace "shall not in
any case trench upon the jurisdiction of the several courts of
record" -thereby indicating that the jurisdiction conferred
upon the several courts of record should be exclusive as
against justices of the peace-no analogous provision was
made as between the courts of record; and that, consequently,
the Constitution did not forbid the Legislature from investing
courts of record of the same order and grade with eqPal authority over any given cause or subject-matter of litigation.
The court, also, said that "the cases are numerous which stand
opposed to or are inconsistent with the idea of the complete
distribution by the Constitution of judicial power among the
several courts, and of their exclusive jurisdiction of all the
subject-matters committed to them." "There are many mat-

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

ters," it observed, by way of illustration, "that we need not
pause to specify, that would usually and properly pertain to
the court exercising probate powers, as involved in the settlement of the estates of deceased persons, that may form the
subject-matters of suits in equity and be properly litigated in
the District Court." It referred to Perry v. Ames as sustaining the theory of concurrent jurisdiction, and pronounced that
doctrine to be correct. It further said that the dictum in
Cawuedd v. Stevens must yield to the decision in Perry v.
Ames.
The doctrine of this case, upon the question of the concurrent jurisdiction of District and Probate Courts of actions in
equity to abate nuisances, was reaffirmed in Yolo County v.
City of Sacramento, 36 California, 193, 195.
The latest decision in the state court, to which our attention
is called, which bears directly on the question of jurisdiction,
is Rosenberg v. Frank, 58 California, 387, 402. In that case
will be found some material qualification of the general language used in previous cases. That was a suit in equity,
brought by executors in a District Court, for the purpose of
obtaining a construction of a will. It was suggested that the
Probate Court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the

cause, and that its jurisdiction was, for that reason, exclusive.
The court, adhering to the rule announced in the Courtwright
case, held the authority of the District Court to be ample and
plenary, under, the grant to it of original jurisdiction in cases
in equity. After stating that the jurisdiction of Probate
Courts is not defined in the Constitution, and referring to the
provision that county judges shall "perform such duties as
probate judges as may be prescribed by law," the court said:
"It seems from the above that the legislature may make the
jurisdiction of the probate judge or court what it pleases,
within the limits of that jurisdiction which is understood as
usually pertaining to Probate Courts." As late as Bw uoghs
v. DVe Couts, '70 California, 361, 371, the court said: "Both
Burroughs and Seamens are estopped by the decree of partition in probate from setting up title derived from Soto adverse
to that of their co-tenants under the same title"- citing Code

OCTOBER TERM. 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of Civil Procedure, § 1908; Freeman on Cotenancy and Partition, § 530-32; and Freeman on Judgments, § 249.

Whether it is to be fairly deduced from the broad language
in previous decisions, that the legislature may confer upon
Probate Courts concurrent jurisdiction as to every matter embraced within the grant of original jurisdiction to the District
Courts, is a question which need not be now decided. It is
only necessary to accept the decision in .Rosenberg v. Frank,
as furnishing the constitutional test for determining the extent
of the jurisdiction with which the Probate Courts of California may be endowed. The question, therefore, is, whether,
after the final settlement of the accounts of a personal representative, and after a decree of distribution, defining the undivided interests of heirs in real estate in the hands of such
representative - neither the title of the decedent nor the fact
of heirship being disputed -the partition of such estate among
the heirs, so as to invest them, separately, with the exclusive
possession and ownership, as against co-heirs, of distinct parcels of such realty, is a subject-matter which may be committed to Probate Courts aceording to the jurisdiction usually
pertaining to those tribunals.
We lay aside, as not open to dispute, the proposition that
there is a difference between distribution and partition. And
we are satisfied that that difference was in the mind of the
legislature when it passed the original Probate Act, as well
as when the Code of Civil Procedure was adopted. As correctly observed by counsel, distribution neither gives a new
title to property, nor transfers a distinct right in the estate of
the deceased owner, but is simply declaratory as to the persons upon whom the law casts the succession, and the extent
of their respective interests; while partition, in most, if not
in all, of its aspects, is an adversary proceeding, in which a
remedial right to the transfer of property is asserted, and
resultfng in a decree which, either ex _proprio vigore or as
executed, accomplishes such transfer. But this difference is
not sufficient in itself, "to solve the inquiry as to whether partition is so far alien to the probate system, as recognized by the
Constitution of California, that the power to make it could

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

not be conferred upon Probate Courts; for, according to the
doctrine of liosenberg v. Fi'ank, those tribunals may exercise
whatever powers the legislature may, in its discretion, confer
upon them, within the limits of such jurisdiction as usually
pertains to Probate Courts. If, at the time the Constitution
of California was adopted, the partition, by Probate Courts,
among the heirs of a decedent, of undivided real estate, was
unknown in the jurisprudence of this country, there would be
ground, under the doctrine of Rosenbe'g v. Fr.ank, to contend
that no such jurisdiction could be conferred upon Probate
Courts in that State. But such is not the case. In a large
number of the States, as the citations by counsel of statutes
and decisions show, Probate Courts were, and are, invested
with power to make partition, among heirs or devisees, of
estates coming within their cognizance for settlement and disBk. I, c. 13,
tribution. 1 Washburn's Real Property, MT1S,
§ 7: Freeman's Cotenancy and Partition, § 550, 2d ed. The
significance of this fact is not materially weakened by the circumstance that, generally, where the power of partition is or
has been exercised in this country by Probate Courts, it has
been by express authority of statutes which were not forbidden by constitutional provisions. The existence of such statutes, in many of the States, precludes the idea, so strongly
pressed by plaintiffs' counsel, that, when the Constitution of
California was adopted, partition was foreign to the probate
system, as administered in this country. Such legislation, we
suppose, has its origin in the belief that it is convenient, if not
desirable, for all concerned in the estate of a decedent, that
the same court, which supervises the final settlement of the
accounts of a personal representative, and ascertains and
declares the interests of heirs in such estate as may remain
after the demands of creditors are satisfied, should have the
power to make partition. We are not prepared to say that
this belief is not well grounded. The connection between the
administration, settlement, distribution, and partition of an
estate is such, that the power to make partition may be justly
regarded as ancillary to the power to distribute such estate,
and, therefore, not alien to the probate system as it has long

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

existed and now exists in many States. For the reasons
stated, and in view of the recent decisions of the highest court
of California, we do not feel at liberty to hold that the legislature could not constitutionally invest Probate Courts with
jurisdiction to make partition of an undivided estate among
the heirs at law of the deceased.
It is proper, in this connection, to say that there is nothing
in -Ferrisv. Ligley, 20 Wall. 375, 382, upon which the plaintiffs rely, to show that partition is foreign to the probate systein as administered in this country. The decision there was,
that, in view of the organic act of Utdih, which did not define
the jurisdiction of the Probate Courts, and in view of the distribution by that act of judicial power among the various
courts of that Territory, the jurisdiction of Probate Courts
must be determined with reference to the general nature and
character of the latter tribunals as recognized in our system of
jurisprudence. An act of the territorial legislature, giving
Probate Courts "original jurisdiction, both civil and criminal,
and as well in chancery as at common law, when not prohibited by legislative enactment," was, therefore, held to be
unconstitutional. So far from the doctrines of that case militating against the decision of the Supreme Court of California
in Rosenberg v. Frank, it was said in"Ferris v. Higley to be
the almost uniform rule among the people who make the
common law of England the basis of their jurisprudence, to
have a distinct tribunal for the establishment of wills and the
administration of the estates of men dying either with or

without wills- which tribunals are "variously called Prerogativ6 Courts, Probate Courts, Surrogate Courts, Orphans'
Courts, &c.;" and that to these functions "have occasionally
been added the guardianship of infants, and control of their
property, the allotment of dower, and perhaps other powers
related more or less to the same general subject."
It remains to consider whether the decree of partition is
void upon grounds other than those relating to the constitutionality of the statute under which the Probate Court proceeded. The Circuit Court of the United States had no jurisdiction to set aside that decree, merely upon the ground of

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

error, nor could it refuse to give it full effect, unless the Probate Court was without jurisdiction of the case. Cooper v.
Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, 315; Gunn,v. Plant, 94 U. S. 664,
669 ; Hall v. Law, 102 U. S. 461, 464; .MJarchandv. Arelleen,
105 U. S. 423, 428. And in determining the question of
jurisdiction, it must be remembered that Probate Courts of
California have had for many years the rank of courts of
general jurisdiction, and, as said in Burroughs v. De Coutq, 70
California, 361, 372, their proceedings, "within the jurisdiction conferred upon them by the law, are to be construed in
the same manner and with the like intendments as the proceedings of courts of general jurisdiction, and their judgments
have like force and effect as judgments of the District Courts."
Probate Courts being, then, courts of superior jurisdiction, in
respect to tlie settlement, distribution, and partition of estates
coming within their cognizance, the recitals in the decree of
partition unless contradicted by the record, will be presumed
to be correct, and every intendment will be indulged in its
support. Settlemier v. Svullivan, 97 U. S. 444, 449; Cheely v.
Clayton, 110 U. S. 701, 708. With these preliminary observations as to the effect to be given to the decree and its recitals,
where the decree is attacked in a collateral suit, we proceed to
examine such of the objections to its validity as we deem of
sufficient importance to notice.
1. It is contended that the administratrix, as such, had no
interest in the partition of 'the decedent's estate, and could not,
in that capacity, initiate proceedings therefor. Too much
stress is laid upon the circumstance that the petition in the
Probate Court was signed by M,rs. Hawes, as "admmistratrix."
The petition seeks something more than a final settlement of
her accounts, and a declaration of the interests of the heirs in
the undistributed estate. It embraces also her claim as widow
and heir, to a share in the estate remaining after the payment of
debts and charges, and contains a distinct prayer that partition be had between herself and the children.
It shows, as
do the orders preceding the decree of partition, that she
sought a settlement of her accounts as administratrix, and a
final adjudication of her rights as heir at law in the estate re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

mailing in her hands. If it would have been better practice
to have made partition the subject of a suit entirely separate
from the proceeding for settlement and distribution, the blending of final settlement, distribution, and partition in the same
petition, or in one suit, did not defeat the jurisdiction of the
court or render its decree of partition void. The record shows
that the question of partition was not considered or determined in the Probate Court until after it had made its decree
of final settlement and distribution.
2. It is contended that proper notice was not given to the
minor children of the proceedings in the Probate Court. This
point is not sustained by the record of those proceedings.
The decree of distribution recites that it appeared to the satisfaction of the court that due and sufficient notice of the time
and place of hearing the petition had been duly given, as required by law, prior to the day set for hearing, and that the
attorney appointed by the court to represent the minor children appeared at the hearing. It is also shown that this
attorney was present at every step of the proceedings for partition. The decree for partition recites that it appeared to the
satisfaction of the court that the commissioner appointed to
make partition "gave notice to all parties interested, in all
respects as prescribed by the statute in such cases." These
recitals are not contradicted by anything in the record, unless
it be that representation of the minor children in the proceedings for settlement, distribution, and partition, by an attorney
appointed by the court, rather than by a guardian ad liten,
was wholly inadequate to bring them into court. It is to be
remembered that the Civil Code expressly provides, that notice of proceedings for partition may be "either personally or
by public notice, as the Probate Court may direct," § 16,76;
and if the account presented by the personal representative be
one for final settlement, and the estate be ready for distribution, "on confirmation of the final account, distribution, and
partition of the estate to all entitled thereto, may be immediately had, without further notice or proceedings." § 1634.
It should also be observed that if the recitals, in the decrees of
distribution and partition, of due notice, be open to dispute in

ROBINSON v. FAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

this collateral proceeding, it does not appear that the publication was not made, in all respects, as required by the order of
court, and by the code.
In this connection it is insisted that the particular mode
adopted in publishing notice of the proceedings for settlement,
distribution, and partition, was not sufficient, in law, to give
the court jurisdiction as to the children. This position is not
tenable. The order to show cause why there should not be a
final settlement and distribution, followed by a partition, according to the rights of the parties, was very full and explicit;
and it was served in one of the modes by which, under the
* local law, jurisdiction could be acquired. The mode adopted
was by publication for "four successive weeks in such newspaper in the county as the court or judge shall direct." § 1539.
* Pearson v. Pearson,46 California, 609, 635. The failure to
repeat, in the order, the names of the minor children - whatever force that objection might have had upon a direct appeal
from the decree of partition-is not a matter affecting the
jurisdiction of the court over the subject-matter and the parties; for, the petition, and the order appointing an attorney
to represent the minors, contained the names in full of all interested in the proceedings for settlement, distribution, and
partition.
3. It is, h6wever, insisted that the defence for the minor
children -who are not shown to have had, at the time, any
general or special guardian in the county or State -could only
have been conducted by a guardian, and that the appearance
in their behalf by an attorney, appointed by the court to represent them, did not bring them into court. This position is
based upon §§ 372 and 373 of the. Code of Civil Procedure. But
those sections, in our opinion, have reference to civil actions
as distinguished from "special proceedings." Code of Civil
Procedure, §§ 20 to 23 ; 372-3. A suit for partition, in a Probate Court, is a special proceeding, . Va trrnan v. Lawrenev, 19
California, 210, 218; and the section which controls the determination of this question is § 1718, part of Title XI, relating
to "Proceedings in Probate Courts." That section, among
other things, provides that "at or before the hearing of peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

tions and contests for the probate of wills; for letters testamentary or of adminis--ration; for sales of real estate and confirmations thereof; settlements, partitions, and distributions of
estates; setting apart homesteads; and all other proceedings
where all the parties interested in the estate are required to
be notified thereof, the court must appoint some competent
attorney at law to represent, in all such proceedings, the
devisees, legatees, heirs, or creditors of the decedent, who are
minors and have no general guardian in the county, or who
are non-residents of tho State; and may, if he deem it necessary, appoint an attorney to represent those interested, who
though they are neither such minors or non-residents, are unrepresented. The order must specify the names of the parties
for whom the attorney is appointed, who is thereby authorized
to represent such parties in all such proceedings had subsequent to his appointment. The appearance of the attorney is
sufficient proof of the service of the notice on the parties he is
appointed to represent." We have not been able to find any
provision requiring thE appointment of guardians ad ierm in
probate proceedings. Without considering whether the failure
to appoint a guardian ad litem for minors, where the statute
requires it to be done, would vitiate the decree, and make it
open to attack collaterally, it is sufficient to say that the
appointment of an at':orney to represent the children in the'
Probate Court was authorized by the statute.
These views are in conformity with the recent decision in
Carenterv. Superior Court of San Joaguin County, decided
April 21, 1888, and nDt yet reported. One of the questions
there was as to the validity of certain proceedings .for the
probate of a will, in which minor heirs were represented by
an attorney, appointed by the court, and not by a guardian ad
litem. Reliance was placed upon the section of the Civil
Code, § 372, part of the title "Parties to Civil Actions," which
provides that "when an infant is a party he must appear by
his general guardian, if he has one; and if not, by a guardian
who may be appointed by the court, in which the action is
prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county judge." It was
held that probate proceedings were not civil actions within

KANE v. NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY.
Syllabus.

the meaning of that title. The court said, "The thing which
a guardian ad lite n is appointed to do is, to ' represent' the
infant in the action or proceeding, Code Civil Procedure
§ 372, by which we understand that he is to conduct and
control the proceedings on behalf of the infant. Now the
attorney for minors in probate proceedings is to 'represent'
the minor, Code Civil Procedure § 1718, and so far as he is
concerned, to conduct and control the proceedings; so that
if the general provisions apply it would be possible to have
two representatives of the minor in the same contest, neither
of whom would be subordinate to the other. We do not
think that such a result could have been intended."
There are no other questions in the case which we deem it
necessary to discuss. We find no error in the judgment below,
and it is
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JusT=E FULLER was not a member of the court
when this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

KANE v. NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE OnOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 8. Submitted October 12, 188.-Decided October 22, IMS.

In an action by an employ6 of a railroad company against the company to
recover damages for personal injuries received by reason of the negligence of the company, in order to determine whether the employ6, by
recklessly exposing himself to peril, has failed to exercise the care for
his personal safety that might reasonably be expected, and has thus by
his own negligence contributed to causing the accident, regard must
always be had to the circumstances of the case, and the exigencies of his
position; and the decision of this question ought not to be withheld from
the jury unless the evidence, after giving the plaintiff the benefit of every
inference to be fairly drawn from it, so conclusively establishes contributory negligence, that the Court would be compelled,.in the exercise of
a sound judicial discretion, to set aside any verdict returned in his favor.

