OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
I

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
-

No. 90. Argued November 20, 21, 188.- Decided December 10, 1888.

The assignee of a judgment founded on a contract suing in a Circuit or
District Court of the United States, on the ground of citizenship to
recover on the judgment, cannot maintain the action unless it appears
affirmatively in the record that both the plaintiff and his assignor were
not citizens of the same State with the defendant.
The fact that a suit is brought to recover the amount of a judgment of
a court of the United States, does not, of itself, make it a suit arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Where the original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States
is invoked upon the sole ground that the determination of the suit
depends upon some question of a Federal nature, it must appear at the
outset, in order to give the court jurisdiction, that the suit is one of
which the court, at the time its jurisdiction is invoked, can properly
take cognizance.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. Ztawles E. Monroe for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. George IF. Bird and .

. Daniel Ball for defendant in

error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the court below, in the year
1883, to recover the sum of $10,207.86, the amount of a judgment rendered May 8, 1866, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Wisconsin, in favor of Pitkin C.
'Wright, against the city of Watertown, a municipal corporation of that State. The plaintiff in the present action, E.
W. Metcalf, is a citizen of Ohio, and sues as assignee of
certain named persons who became, under assignments from
Wright in 1873, the owners, in different proportions, of that
judgment.
Although the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
Opinion of the Court.

Court over the present suit was suggested at the bar, the
case was argued entirely with reference to the construction
and effect of the statute of Wisconsin, prescribing, in respect
to causes of action accruing before November 1, 1878, ten
years as the period within which must be commenced "an
action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of
any State or Territory within the United States, or of any
court of the United States," while twenty years was fixed,
by the same statute, for the commencement of "an action
upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of this
[that] State." The court below held the suit to be barred
by the limitation of ten years. Rev. Stat. Wisconsin, 1858,
c. 138, §§ 1, 14, 15, 16; b. 1878, c. 177, §§ 4206, 4219, 4220,
4221. We are not, however, at liberty to express any opinion
upon the question of limitation, if the court, whose judgment
has been brought here for review, does not appear, from the
record, to have had jurisdiction of the case. And whether
that court had or had not jurisdiction, is a question which we
must examine and determine, even if the parties forbear to
make it, or consent that the case be considered upon its merits.
.Mansfteld &c. Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S.. 379, 382;
.ing .B'idge Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S.225 ; Blacklock v.
Small, 127 U. S.96, 105; Cnamero'n v. Hodges, 127 U. S.322,
326.
By the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States, it is provided that no Circuit or District Cdurt of the
United States shall "have cognizance of any suit founded on
contract in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been
prosecuted in such court to recover thereon if no assignment
had been made, except in cases of promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant and bills of exchange." This suit
certainly does not belong to the excepted class,. and, being
founded on the original judgment against the city, is one
"founded on contract" within the meaning of the act. By
the very terms, therefore, of the statute, Metcalf's right to
sue in the Circuit Court depends upon the right of his assignors
to have brought suit in that court, if no assignment had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

made. This view is fatal to the jurisdiction of that court, so
far as its jurisdiction depends upon the above provision of the
statute, because it nowhere appears in the record of what
State the plaintiff's assignors were citizens when this action
was commenced; indeed, it is consistent with the record that
they were, at that time, citizens of the same State with the
defendant. Walker' v. Powers, 104 U. S. 245, 248; ContiRental Ins. Co. v. Rhoads, 119 U. S. 237, 239; Peper v.
Fordyce, 119 U. S. 469, 471; Everhart v. Huntsville College,
120 U. S. 223; 3fenard v. Goggan, 121 U. S. 253; and the
cases before cited.
iNor can the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court be maintained
upon the theory that this suit is one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States. The fact that it was
brought to recover the amount of a judgment of a court of
the United States does not, of itself, make it a suit of that
character; for the plaintiff, without raising by his complaint
any distinct question of a Federal nature, and without indicating, by proper averment, how the determination of any
question of that character is involved in the case, seeks to enforce an ordinary right of property, by suing upon the judgment merely as a security of record, showing a debt due from
the city of Watertown. Provident Savings Society v. Ford,
114 U. S. 635, 641. The plaintiff, it is true, contends that the
limitation of ten years could not, consistently with the Constitution of the United States, be applied to an action upon a
judgment or decree of a court of the United States, when a
longer period was given within which to sue upon a judgment
or decree of a court of record established by the laws of Wisconsin. And if the plaintiff properly invoked the original
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States, in
respect to the cause of action set out in his complaint, the
question of limitation, under one construction of the local
statute, would be decisive of the case. But is the present suit,
therefore, one arising under the Constitution or the laws of
the United States, within the meaning of the act of 1875?
We think not.
It has been often decided by this court that a suit may be

METCALF v. WATERTOWN.
-Opinion of the Court.

said to arise under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, within the meaning of that act, even where the Federal
question upon which it depends is raised, for the first time in
the suit, by the answer or plea of the defendant. But these
were removal cases, in each of which the grounds of Federal
jurisdiction were disclosed either in the pleadings, or in the
petition or affidavit for removal; in other words, the case, at the
time the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States
attached, by removal, clearly presented a question or questions
of a Federal nature. Railroad Co. v. .ississ'ppi, 102 I. S.
135, 140 ; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 462; PaciRc Raiload Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1, 11; Southern Pacific Railioad Co. v. California,118 U. S. 109, 112. Besides, the right
of removal under the act of 1875 could not be made to depend
upon a preliminary inquiry as to whether the plaintiff had or
had not the right to sue in the state court of original jurisdiction from which it was sought to remove the suit. Where,
however, the original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the
United States is invoked upon the sole ground that the determination of the suit depends upon some question of a Federal
nature, it must appear, at the outset, from the declaration or
the bill of the party suing, that the suit is of that character;
in other words, it must appear, in that class of cases, that the
suit was one of which the Circuit Court, at the time its jurisdiction is invoked, could properly take cognizance. If it does
not so appear, then the court, upon demurrer, or motion, or
upon its own inspection of the pleading, must dismiss the suit;
just as it would remand to the state court a suit which the
record, at the time of removal, failed to show was within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. It cannot retain it in order
to see whether the defendant may not raise some question of
a Federal nature upon which the right of recovery will finally
depend; and if so retained, the want of jurisdiction, at the
commencement of the suit, is not cured by an answer or plea
which may suggest a question of that kind. If the city had
not answered in the present suit, and judgment by default had
been rendered against it, this court, upon writ of error, would
have been compelled to reverse the judgment, upon the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

that the record did not show jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court.
It results, that from any view of the case, as presented by
the record, it is one in respect to which the plaintiff could not,
under the act of 1875, invoke the original jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with direction for such further proceedings as may be consistent with law, the plaintiff in error
to pay the costs in this court. It will be for the court below
to determine whether the pleadings can be so amended as to
present a case within its jurisdiction. Zing Bridge Co. v.
Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225, 227; .1enard v. Goggan, 121
U. S. 253.
Reversed.
WARE v. ALLEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF MISSISSIPPI.
'o. 99. Argued November 28, December 3, 188S.-Decided December 17, 1883.

On the proofs the court holds that the contract upon which this suit is
brought never went into effect; that the condition upon which it was
to become operative never occurred; and that the case is one of that
class, well recognized in the law, by which an instrument, whether
delivered to a third person as an escrow, or to the obligee in it, is made
to depend, as to its going into operation, upon events to occur or to be
ascertained thereafter.
Parol evidence is admissible, in an action between the parties, to show
that a written instrument, executed and delivered by the party obligor
to the party obligee, absolute on its face, was conditional and was not
intended to take effect until another event should take place.
LN

EQUITY-

appealed.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Complainant

The case is stated in the opinion.

_Mr. Calderon Carlisle,with whom was JALXr. lJfarcellus Green,
for appellant, on the point that parol evidence was not admissible to explain the instrument which formed the subject of
controversy, contended as follows:

