DENNY v. BENNETT.
Syllabus.

up for the deficiency by taking two hundred and sixty-seven
feet on the other side; that the annual labor performed by
defendants in error on their alleged claim for the year 1880
"should not be measured by its actual value when done, but by
a speculative value in advance ;" that judgment should have
been given for plaintiffs in error, and not for defendants in
error.
We do not find that in the trial court or in the Supreme
Court of the State the fact that the claim of plaintiffs below
followed in its length the general course of the vein, or that
the side lines were substantially parallel with, and the end
lines at right angles to, the vein, was drawn in question, and
it is therefore too late to do so here as the basis of jurisdiction,
and in our view the other alleged errors involved questions
either of fact or of state and not of Federal law.
The rnotion to dismiss the writ of erroris therefore sustained.

DENNY v. BENNETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF AMnNESOTA.
No. 67. Argued and submitted November 8,185. -D ecided November 26, 1888.

The act of the legislature of Minnesota of March 7, 1881, c. 148, entitled
"An Act to prevent debtors from giving preference to creditors, and to
secure the equal distribution of the property of debtors among their creditors, and for the release of debts against debtors," which provides that,
whenever the property of a debtor is seized by an attachment or execution against him, he may make an assignment of all his property and
estate, not exempt by law, for the equal benefit of all his creditors who
shall file releases of their debts and claims, and that his property shall be
equitably distributed among such creditors is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, so far as it affects citizens of States other
than Minnesota.
Statutes limiting the right of the creditor to enforce his claims against the
property of the debtor are part of all contracts made after they take
effect, and do not impair the obligation of such contracts.
A clause in an assignment for the benefit of creditors under the Minnesota
Statute of March 7, 1881, directing the payment to the assignor of any

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.
surplus remaining after payment in full to creditors proving their debts,
does not invalidate the assignment.
A state statute providing for the distribution of the property of a debtor
among his creditors, and his discharge from his debts, does not release a
debt due to a citizen of another State, who does not prove his debt, nor
become subject to the jurisdiction of the court.
An application by the assignee of an insolvent debtor, under a state statute,
to be admitted as a party in a suit pending in a Circuit Court of the
United States against the insolvent, in which his property was attached
by the marshal on mesne process, and for a dissolution of the attachment, and an order of the Circuit Court allowing him to become a party,
but refusing to dissolve the attachment, do not make the assignee a
party to that suit without further action on his part, and do not estop
him from setting up a claim to the property in the hands of the marshal
under the attachment.

TROVER against the marshal of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota for the conversion
of property seized under a writ of attachment issuing out of
that court. Verdict for the plaintiff, and judgment on the
verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion.
J.fr. C. -A. O'Brien for plaintiff in error cifed: Butchinson
v. L ord, 1 Wisconsin, 286; S. C. 60 Am. Dec. 381; Bogert v.
Phejs, 14 Wisconsin, 88, 95; Thayer v. TFillet, 5 Bosworth
(N. Y.) 344, 354; .Fallon v. .McCunn, 7 Bosworth (N. Y.) 141;
.Damon v. Bryant, 2 Pick. 411; Pratt v. TF-eeler, 6 Gray, 520;
Owen. v. Dixon, 17 Conn. 492, 497, 498; Gilman v. Lockwood,
4 Wall. 409; Ogden. v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213; Sturges v.
Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223;
Union Bank of Tenn. v. Jolly's Administrators,18 How. 503;
.Hyde v. Stone, 20 How. 170; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425;
G'een v. Clarke, 2 Kernan (12 N. Y.) 343; Bigelow v. Windsor, 1 Gray, 299, 301 ; Eing v. Chase, 15 N. H. 1 ; S. C 41 Am.
Dec. 675; Robinson v. Leavitt, 7 N. H. 73; Vooght v. Tincht,
2 B. & Aid. 662; Outram v. -Aforewood 3 East, 316; Strutt v.
Bovington, 5 Esp. 56; Calhoun's Tessee v. .Dunning, 4 Dall.
120; Eastman v. Cooyer, 15 Pick. 276; S. C 26 Am. Dec. 600;
IeGuen v. Gouverneu', 1 Johns. Cas. 436; . C. 1 Am. Dec.
121; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Taylor v. Carryll,20 How.

DENNY v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

583; Freeman. v. Howe, 24: How. 450; Peck- v. Jenness, 7
How. 612, 624; Iagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400; Wallace v. -McConnell, 13 Pet. 136.
.Afr. Ambrose N..i.ferrick for defendant in error submitted
on his brief, citing: In Re -Mann, 32 Minnesota, 60; Simon
v. Xann, 33 Minnesota, 412; Bennett v. Denny, 33 Minnesota,
530; Jfather v. -Yesbit, 13 Fed. Rep. 872; Weston v. Loyhed,
30 Minnesota, 221, 222; Wendell v. -Lebon, 30 Minnesota, 234;
Sloane v. Ckdnipuy, 22 Fed. Rep. 213; Eingman v. Barton, 24
Minnesota, 295; Swart v. Thomnas, 26 Minnesota, 141, 143.
MR. JUsTICE MILLE.R delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Minnegota.
The principal point raised by the assignments of error is,
that an act of the legislature of that State, approved March 7,
1881, c. 148, Laws of 1881, p. 193, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States so far as it affects citizens of States
other than Minnesota. That statute provides that whenever
the property of a debtor is seized by an attachment or execution against him he may make an assignment of all his property and estate, not exempt by law, for the equal benefit of all
his creditors who shall file releases of their debts and claims,
and his property shall be equitably distributed among such
creditors.
This is the only assignment of error, with the exception of
one other, which will be considered farther on, that, by any
fair construction, can be said to come within the jurisdiction
of this court, though others are set out in the brief of counsel,
relative to fraud in the assignment made by the debtors in
this instance, which raise no Federal question.
The facts may be briefly stated as follows: On the 31st day
of December, 1883, J. H. Purdy & Co. brought a suit in the
Fourth Judicial District Court of Hennepin County, in the
State of Minnesota, against Axel B. Van Norman and Gustave
Van Norman, partners, under the firm name of Van Norman
& Brother, and on the same day procured a writ of attachment

OCTOBER TERM:, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to issue in that suit, which was levied upon a part of the goods
of the defendants. On the same day that firm made a deed
of assignment to Charles C. Bennett, the present defendant
in error, reciting the issue and levy of this attachment, and
assigning to him "all the lands, tenements, hereditaments and
appurtenances, goods, chattels, choses in action, claims, demands, property and effects of every description," belonging
to them wherever situated. The instrument also provided
that the assignee was "to take possession of the property, and
to sell and dispose of the same with all reasonable diligence,
and to convert the same into money; and, also, to collect all
such debts and demands hereby assigned as may be collectible,
and with and out of the proceeds of such sales and collections
to pay and discharge all the just and reasonable expenses,
costs and charges of executing the assignment," including a
reasonable compensation to the assignee for his services.
The assignment then directs the assignee to proceed as follows:
"To pay and discharge in full, if the residue of said proceeds be sufficient for that purpose, all the debts and liabilities
now due, or to become due, from said party of the first part
to all their creditors who shall file releases of their debts and
claims against the said party of the first part, as by law provided, together with all interest due, and to become due thereon; and if the residue of said proceeds shall not be sufficient
to pay said debts and liabilities and interest in full, then to
apply the same, so far as they will extend, to the payment of
the said debts and liabilities and interest proportionably to
their respective amounts, and in accordance with the statute
in such case made and provided; and if, after payment of all
the costs, charges and expenses attending the execution of said
trust, and the payment and discharge in full of all the said
lawful debts owing by the said party of the first part, there
shall be any surplus of the said proceeds remaining in the
hands of the party of the second part, then to repay such surplus to the party of the first part, their executors, administrators, or assigns."
It appears that the goods and chattels mentioned in this

DENNY v.

BENNETT.

Opinion of the Court.

deed of trust were, under its authority, delivered to Bennett,
the assignee, or partly so, the sheriff having closed the doors
of the store in which they were situated, at the time that
Denny, the plaintiff in error, seized them by virtue of a writ
of attachment issued out of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Minnesota, of which he was marshal,
in a suit brought by Lapp & Flershem against the firm of
VSan Norman & Brother. The latter action was also commenced on the 31st day of December, 1883. On January
21, 1884, after a refusal by the marshal to deliver the goods,
Bennett, the assignee, made application to the United States
Circuit Court to be made a party to the suit of Lapp &
Flershem against Van Norman & Brother, and prayed for
the dissolution of the attachment issued in favor of the
plaintiffs therein. The court, on February 18, 1884, made the
following order: "First. That Charles C. Bennett, assignee,
do have, and he is hereby given, leave to intervene and
become a party defendant herein. Second. That the motion
to dissolve the attachment be, and the same is, hereby
denied." Although the assignee was thus permitted to come
in and be made a party, it is not shown thathe ever did so,
or ever appeared in the case after that time.
There is no further record in this case of any proceedings
in the Circuit Court of the United States, nor in the action
of Pu'dy & Co. v. VFan -orrnan. & Brother, but the transcript then proceeds with the suit brought by the assignee
against the marshal, Henry IR.Denny, in the nature of trover
and conversion, for damages on account of his unlawful
seizure of these same goods while they were in the hands of
said assignee, and for a conversion of the same by his refusal
to return them to plaintiff.. This suit was decided in favor
of Bennett, the assignee, in the lower court, by a verdict of a
jury, and upon the judgment being carried by a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota it was there
affirmed. In both of these courts the questions we have mentioned were raised by exceptions to the charge of the judge
that the assignment was a valid one, and to the ruling that
the decision of the Circuit Court of the United States on

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the motion to dissolve the attachment was not a bar to the
present action by the assignee.
The question of the invalidity of this Minnesota statute,
as it relates to the rights of creditors, is an interesting one.
The argument in favor of that proposition is twofold. First,
that it impairs the obligation of contracts; and, second, that
such a statute can have no extraterritorial operation, and cannot, therefore, be binding on creditors living in a different
State from that of the debtor and of the situs of .his property.
With regard to the first of these it may be conceded that,
so far as an attempt might be made to apply this statute to
contracts in existence before it was enacted, it would be liable
to the objection raised, and therefore in such a case of no
effect. But the doctrine has been long settled that statutes
limiting the right of the creditor to enforce his claims against
the property of the debtor, which are in existence at the time
the contracts are made, axe not void, but are within the
legislative power of the States where the property and the
debtor are to be found. The courts of the country ab~und
in decisions of this class, exempting property from execution
and attachment, no limit having been fixed to the amount providing for a valuation at which alone, or generally twothirds of which, the property can be brought to a forced sale
to discharge the debt-granting stays of execution after
judgment, and in numerous ways holding that, as to contracts
made after the passage of such laws, the legislative enactments regulating the rights of the creditors in the enforcement of their claims are valid. These statutes, exempting
the homestead of the debtor, perhaps with many acres of
land adjoining it, the books and- library of the professional
man, the horse and buggy, and surgical implements of the
physician, or the household furniture, horses, cows, and other
articles belonging to the debtor, have all been held to be valid,
without reference to the residence of the creditor, as applied
to contracts made after their passage.
The principle is well stated in the case of Edward v. -Yearzey, 96 U. S. 595, 603, in the following language:

DENNY v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

"The inhibition of the Constitution is wholly prospective.
The States may legislate as to contracts thereafter made, as
they may see fit. It is only those in existence when the
hostile law is passed that are protected from its effect."
See also Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177 ; University v.
.People, 99 U. S. 309; Enox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379.
The doctrine was very early announced in the case of Wales
v. Stetson, 2 Mass. 143; and in the separate opinion of Mr.
Justice Story in Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Foodward,
4 Wheat. 518, 666, decided in 1819, it was suggested that in a
grant of a charter to a corporation a reservation of the right
to repeal it would be valid. This has been acted upon, and
such action has been held in many cases to be valid.
The later case of Greenwood v. BR'eight Co., 105 U. S. 13,
contains a review of this whole subject, so far as contracts
are concerned.
No reason has been suggested why the legislature could not
exempt all interests in landed estate from execution and sale
under judgments against the owner, and perhaps all his personal property. However this may be, it is very certain that
the established construction of the Constitution of the United
States against impairing the obligation of contracts requires
that statutes of this class shall be construed to be parts of all
contracts made when they are in existence, and therefore
cannot be held to impair their obligation.
The act in question in the present case does not exceed
many of the class to which we have alluded in its effect in
enabling the debtor to dispose of his property without regard
to the ordinary judicial proceedings to subject it to forced sale.
The power is conceded, when not forbidden by the statutes of
a State, to a failing debtor to make a general assignment of
his property for the benefit of his creditors, as this one does.
It is further admitted that in such an assignment, if there be
nothing fraudulent otherwise, he can prefer some creditors
over others, and that he can secure to some payment in full,
while he leaves others who will certainly get nothing out of
his estate. When this is done, the creditors who are not provided for in the assignment, are left in a worse condition than

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

they are where it is done under the present law, because in
the first instance they would certainly get nothing out of the
debtor's property, though they would retain a right to proceed
against him by a judgment and execution; while in the present case they have the option of pursuing that course, or of
coming in with the other creditors, executing releases, and
obtaining their share of the property assigned. Here, instead
of naming the preferred creditors, the assignor gives his property to all who will execute a release of their claims against
him. Nobody is required by the statute to do so unless he
thinks it is to his interest. The creditor who executes such a
release gets his share of the property assigned, while the one
who does not receives nothing, unless there may be a surplus
left after the payment of the releasors; but he is not hindered
or delayed in obtaining a judgment against the debtor, or in
levying upon any other property, if such can be found, not
conveyed by the instrument, or upon any afterwards acquired
by the debtor. The latter remains liable, notwithstanding
this statute and this assignment, as he always was, for the
debt of the non-assenting creditor.
It is not easy, then, to see how this statute can be more
complained of as impairing the obligation of contracts than
the statutes of exemption which we have already mentioned,
and the principles which lie at the foundation of all voluntary
assignments for the benefit of creditors with preferences that
exhaust the fund assigned.
But it is said in answer to this view of the subject that there
is a clause in the instrument now before us directing that if
there shall be a surplus after the payment in full of all the
creditors who shall release the assignors, it shall be paid over
to the latter. There are two answers to this. If that clause
or provision is unlawful and violates the laws of the State of
Minnesota, or the Constitution of the United States, it can be
rejected, and the remainder of the assignment permitted to
stand. The statute under which the assignment was made
does ndt require that such surplus shall be paid over to the
debtors. The Supreme Court of that State has held that such
a fund may be arrested, when proper proceedings are had,

DENNY v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

before it gets to the debtor's hands; and, certainly, wherever
that surplus may be found, and however it may be got at by
any of the processes of law, it is liable to be taken by the
non-releasing creditor. He can pursue all the remedies which
the law gives him as against any fund, property, chose in
action, or estate liable to the payment of his demand.
But it is said that this statute of Minnesota is void under
the principles laid down by this court in the cases of Sturges v.
Ctrownin.skield, 4 Wheat. 122; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat.
213; Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223, and Gilman v. -ockwood,
4 Wall. 409. The proposition lying at the foundation of all
these decisions is, that a statute of a State, being without force
in any other State, cannot discharge a debtor from a debt held
by a citizen of such other State. One of the best statements
of the doctrine is found in the following language used in the
latest case on the subject, that of Gilman v. 1ockwood, supra.
"State legislatures may pass insolvent laws, provided there
be no act of Congress establishing a uniform system of bankruptcy conflicting with their provisions, and provided that the
law itself be so framed that it does not impair the obligation
of contracts. Certificates of discharge, however, granted
under such a law, cannot be pleaded in bar of an action
brought by a citizen of another State in the courts of the
United States, or of any other State than that where the discharge was obtained, unless it appear that the plaintiff proved
his debt against the defendant's estate in insolvency, or in some
manner became a party to the proceedings. Insolvent laws of
one State cannot discharge the contracts of citizens of other
States; because such laws have no extraterritorial operation,
and consequently the tribunal sitting under them, unless in
cases where a citizen of such other State voluntarily becomes
a party to the proceeding, has no jurisdiction of the cause."
This is conceived to be a clear and accurate presentation of
the doctrine of the preceding cases, and it will be seen that
the substance of the restrictive principle goes no farther than
to prohibit, or to make invalid, the discharge of a debt held
by a citizen of another State than that where the court is sitting, who does not appear and take part, or is not otherwise
VOL. CXxm-32

498

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

-brought within the jurisdiction of the court granting the discharge. In other words, whatever the court before whom
such proceedings are had may do with regard to the disposition of the property of the debtor, it has no power to release
him from the obligation of a contract which he owes to a resident of another State, who is not personally subjected to the
'jurisdiction of the court. Any one who will take the trouble
to examine all these cases will perceive that the objection to
the extraterritorial operation of a state insolvent law is, that
it cannot, like the bankrupt law passed by Congress under its
constitutional grant of power, release all debtors from the
obligation of the debt. The authority to deal with the property of the debtor within the State, so far as it does not impair
the obligation of contracts, is conceded, but the power to
release him, which is one of the usual elements of all bankrupt
laws, does not belong to the legislature where the creditor is
not within the control of the court.
The -Minnesota statute makes no provision for any such
rel-ase. The creditor who became such after the statute was
passed cannot complain that the obligation of his contract is
impaired, because the lav was a part of the contract at the
time he made it, nor can he say that his contract is destroyed
and the debtor discharged from it, which is of the essence of a
bankrupt law, because no such decree can be made by the
court, neither does the law have any such effect, though the
obligation of the debtor to pay may be cancelled or discharged
'by the voluntary act of the creditor who makes such release
lfor a consideration which to him seems to be sufficient.
The other assignment of error, pressed by counsel for plaintiff in error, that the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the
United States, in relation to the dissolution of the attachment
and Bennett's becoming a party to the suit there pending, are
an estoppel of the claim now set up by him, is not in our
opinion entitled to much consideration. The order of the
court in relation to that. matter, above quoted, merely gave
leave to the assignee to become a party to that suit, at the
same time overruling the other branch of the motion asking
,for a dissolution of the attachment. It does not appear by

DENNY v. BENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

the record that Bennett ever did make himself a party to that
suit, and of course could be bound by no judgment rendered
in regard to it. Even if he can be supposed to be a party, so
far as the motion to dissolve the attachment is concerned, we
concur with the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota,
Bennett v. Denny, 33 Minnesota, 530, in holding that "it was
merely a decision of a motion or summary application, which
is not to be regarded in the light of r'es adjudicata,or as so
far conclusive upon the parties as to prevent their drawing the
same matters in question again in the more regular form of
an action." For this they cite the decisions of their own court.
In aid of this view of the subject we may also refer to the
opinion of Judge Nelson in deciding the motion to dissolve.
After reciting the circumstances under which that motion was
made, he said:
"It is by virtue of this seizure that the marshal holds the
property. On this statement of the facts I shall not decide
on this motion who has the better title and right to the possession of the property taken.

.

.

The writ of attach-

ment properly issued in this suit against the debtor, and if the
marshal has seized the property which belonged to Bennett,
he is certainly liable in an action of trespass for the damages
thereby sustained." Lap v. Tan, IYorman, 19 Fed. Rep.
406. See Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334.
It is therefore clear that the order of the judge refusing to
dissolve the attachment was not predicated upon any decision
as to the right of the possession of the property, but that he
intended to leave the marshal liable to the present action, if
the facts justified the claim of the assignee. Apart from this,
we are not at all satisfied that the effect of this action of the
Circuit Court on the suit afterwards brought by the assignee
in the state court is a question of Federal cognizance. Its
decision, as shown by the opinion of Judge Nelson, was not
based upon any law or principle of Federal jurisprudence, and
must have rested upon the general rules which govern the conclusiveness of former judicial proceedings when called in question in another case.
fI7ejudgment of the Supreme Court of Ninnesota is affirraed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.
AI.

JUSTICE HARLAN

dissenting.

I cannot assent to a judgment of affirmance in this case.
1. The statute of :Mnnesota of 1881, upon which the defendant in error rests his suit for damages, provides, among
other things: "Whenever the property of any debtor is attached or levied upon by any officer, by virtue of any writ or
process issued out of a court of record of this State in favor
of any creditor or garnishment made against any debtor, such
debtor may, within ten days after the levying of such attachment, process or garnishment shall have been made, make
an assignment of all his property and estate, not exempt by
law, for the equal benefit of all his creditors, in proportion to
their respective valid claims, who shall file releases of their
debts and claims against such creditors as hereinafter provided,
.

.

.and,

upon the making of such assignment, all attach-

ments, levy or garnishment so made shall be dissolved upon
the appointment and qualification of an assignee or receiver,
and thereupon the officers shall deliver the property attached
or levied upon to such assignee or receiver, unless the assignee
shall, within five days after such assignment, file in the office
of the clerk of the court where such attachment was issued or
judgment was rendered a notice of his intention to retain such
attachment, levy or garnishment, in which case any such attachment, levy or garnishment shall inure to the benefit of all
the said creditors, and may be enforced by the assignee by his
substitution in the action as such in the same manner as the
plaintiff might have enforced the same had such assignment
not been made: .Provided, however, That this section shall
not apply to cases where an execution has been issued upon a
judgment in an action where the complaint has been filed in
the office of the clerk of the court twenty days prior to the
entry of the judgment."
This statute did not operate to dissolve the attachment
which issued from the Circuit Court of the United States in
favor of Lapp & Flershem; for it applies only to writs or process issued out of "a court of record of this State," that is, a
court of record established under the constitution and laws of

DENNY

v. BENNETT.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

Minnesota.

If intended to embrace writs of attachment from

a court of the United States, so as to vacate levies under such
writs, without an order to that effect by the court under whose
authority they were made, it would be inoperative. No State
enactment can, proffrio vigore, work the dissolution of an attachment issuing from a Federal court.
A different construction is inadmissible upon other grounds.
By the 10th section of the statute it is provided that "No
creditor of any insolvent debtor shall receive any benefit
under the provisions of this act, or any payment of any share
of the proceeds of the debtor's estate unless he shall have first
filed with the clerk of the District Court, in consideration of the
benefits of the provisions of this act, a release to the debtor of
all claims other than such as may be paid under the provisions
of this act, for the benefit of such debtor, and thereupon the
court or judge may direct that judgment be entered discharging
such debtor from all claims or debts held by creditors, who shall
have filed such releases." If this act is to control the rights
of the parties in the present case, the result is, that the prior
right acquired by Lapp & Flershem under their suit and attachment in the Federal court is taken from them, and they
are denied all interest in the proceeds as well of the property
attached for their benefit as of the property assigned to- Bennett, unless they give a release in full to their debtors. Such
a result is not, in my judgment, consistent with the rights
secured by the Constitution of the United States to the plaintiffs in error.
2. There is some misapprehension as to the time when the
assignment to Bennett was actually made. But it is clear
from the evidence that the marshal levied before he acquired
any right in the property attached by that officer. In the
brief filed in behalf of Bennett in the Circuit Court, in support
of his application to be made a party in the suit of Lapp &
Flershem against Van Norman & Bro., in order that he might
assert his claim, as assignee, to the goods seized by the marshal, and in support also of his motion to dissolve the attachment sued out by Lapp & Flershem - which brief is part of
the record before us -it is said: "The court will bear in mind

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

that the assignment was not made and filed until some three
hours after the levy of the attachment by the plaintiffs [Lapp

& Flershem]."

And in the opinion of the Supreme Court of

Mv[innesota in this case, it is said : "It seems that prior to the
making of the assignment in question the defendant, as United
States marshal, by virtue of process of the Circuit Court, had
attached the assigned property." As the Federal court had
jurisdiction of the suit in which was issued the attachment
that came to the hands of the marshal, the goods seized by
the latter were, from the moment of such seizure, in the custody of that court, so far, at least, as to prevent the possession
of the marshal from being disturbed by an action of replevin
in behalf of Bennett. Freeman v. rowe, 2, How. 450; Buck
v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276;
f
v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Ypifendorf
Covell v. Hleyman, 111 U. S. 1,76; Gumble v. Pitkin, 124
U. S.131, 145. It was said in 1ammon v. Feusier,111 U. S.19,
that even where a marshal takes the property of a person not
named in the writ, "the property is in his official custody, and
under the control of the court whose officer he is, and whose
writ he is executing;" and that "according to the decisions of
this court the rightful owner cannot maintain an action of
replevin against him, nor recover the property specifically in
any way, except in the court from which the writ is issued."
3. If Bennett's right to the possession of the property covered by the assignment to him had accrued before the marshal
made his levy, the latter might have been liable in trespass or
in trover and conversion in any court of competent jurisdiction
as to parties. Here, however, the attachment, which came to
the hands of the marshal, was lawfully issued and was rightfully levied. That is conceded on all sides. Was it for that
officer to pass upon the validity of a claim which accrued, if at
all, subsequently to his taking the goods into his possession?
His writ commanded him to take the goods of Van Norman
& Bro.; and he did so. He was also commanded to safely
keep them to satisfy the demand of Lapp & Flershem. Could
he be discharged from his obligation to so keep them except
by an order of the court under whose direction he had proceeded? Indeed, if he had surrendered possession, without

DANVILLE v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

leave first obtained from the'Federal court, he could have been
proceeded against for contempt in having parted with 'the
possession of goods in the custody of that court. Bennett
asked leave to intervene in the suit in the Federal court, and
such leave was granted; but he declined to exercise the privilege accorded to him. He moved, at the same time, to
dissolve the attachment, and that motion was denied; the
Federal court thereby plainly indicating to the marshal a purpose to hold the property until it had adjudicated Bennett's
claim. If Bennett had intervened in the suit in the Federal
court, and if that court had dismissed his intervention, or
adjudged his claim to be subordinate to that of Lapp &
Flershem under their attachment, he could have prosecuted an
appeal to this court. Gumrbl v. Pitkin,113 U. S. 545.
A marshal who levies an attachment from a Circuit Court
of the United States in a suit of which it has complete jurisdiction, upon goods subject at the time to such attachment,
is not, I think, liable in trover and conversion for their value
upon his refusal, in the absence of any direction of the court
under whose writ they were seized, to surrender possession;
especially to one whose right, if any, accrued subsequently to
his levy. To hold him, under such circumstances, liable to a
suit in a state court for damages, is to invite those conflicts
between courts of different jurisdictions and their respective
officers, which the former decisions of this court have sought
to prevent.

DANVILLE v. BROWN.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A. CASE PENDING IN THIS COURT ON APPEAL
FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 1100.

Submitted November 26, 1888. - Decided December 3, 188.

In computing the "sixty days after the rendition of judgment," allowed by
Rev. Stat. ยง 1007 to a "partyappealing from a judgment of a Circuit Court

to give the security required by law, Sundays are excluded.

