ASHER v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ASBER v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 781.

Argued October 11, 12, 1888. -Decided

October 29, 18SS.

A State law exacting a license tax to enable a person within the State, to
solicit orders and make sales there for a person residing within another
State, is repugnant to that clause of the Constitution of the United States
which gives Congress the power to regulate commerce among the several
States, and is void.
Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 320 U. S. 489, was carefully considered
and is affirmed.
Leloup v.Port of M]obile, 127 U. S. 640, to the same point received the unanimous concurrence of the court, and is affirmed.
A decision of this court, not in harmony with some of its previous decisions, has the effect to overrule those with which it is in conflict, whether
mentioned and commented on or not.

ON the application of the plaintiff in error a writ of habeas
eOrys, issued from a state court of Texas, to inquire into the
validity of his imprisonment under the provisions of a statute
of the State alleged to be in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States. In the Court of Appeals of Texas final
judgment was given against the petitioner. This writ of error
was sued out to bring that judgment under review.
Jf. Abel Crook for plaintiff in error.
Elhone was with him on the brief.

ir.

Jokn J. ifr-

31r. J. S. Hogg, Attorney General of Texas, for defendant
in error. -M1r. if. 1. Davidson was with him on the brief.
MR.JUSTCE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the State
of Texas in a case of habeas corpus. By an act of the legislature of Texas, passed May 4th, 1882, it was provided that
there shall be levied on and collected "from every commercial
traveller, drummer, salesman, or solicitor of trade, by sample
or otherwise, an annual occupation tax of tbirty-five dollars,
VOL. cxxvi-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to be paid to the Comptroller
payable in advance;
of Public Accounts, whose receipts under seal shall be evidence of the payment of such tax;" and it was provided that
every such commercial traveller, drummer, &c., "shall, on demand of the tax collector of any county of the State, or any
peace officer of said county, exhibit to such officer the Comptroller's receipt;" and on refusal "shall be deemed guilty of
misdemeanor and fined in a sum not less than twenty-five nor
more than one hundred dollars." And by article 110, chapter
5, title 4, of the Penal Code of the State of Texas, it is provided that, "any person who shall pursue or follow any occupation, calling, or profession, or do any act taxed by law,
without first obtaining a license therefor, shall be fined in any
sum not less than the amount of the taxes so due, and not
more than double that sum."
By a statement of facts agreed upon by the parties in the
court below, it appears that William G. Asher, the plaintiff in
error, "is a resident and citizen of the city of New Orleans,
State of Louisiana, and "on the 27th day of May, A.D. 1887',
and for about the period of one month prior thereto, was
engaged in the business of soliciting trade by the use of
samples for the house for which he worked as drummer, in
the city of Houston, Harris County, State of Texas, said house
being Charles G. Schulze, of New Orleans, Louisiana, who was
a manufacturer of rubber stamps and stencils, for the sale of
which said Asher was then and there soliciting orders or trade.
While engaged in the act of drumming for said Charles G.
Schulze, and for the claimed offence of not having taken out
the required license for so doing said business, the defendant,
William G. Asher, was arrested by one George Ellis, sheriff of
said county of Harris, State of Texas, and carried before the
Hon. James A. Breeding, a justice of the peace of Precinct
No. 1 of said county of Harris, State of Texas, and fined for
the offence of pursuing the occupation of drummer without a
license. It is admitted that Charles G. Schulze is engaged in
manufacturing in New Orleans, State of Louisiana., and in
selling rubber stamps and stencils, and that it was a line of
such articles for the sale of which the said defendant, William

ASHER v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

G. Asher, was drumming at the time of his arrest; that the
relator, Asher, was soliciting said orders and was making said
sales for his said non-resident employers in the county of Harris and in the State of Texas."
Being imprisoned for failure to pay the fine imposed upon
him, Asher applied to the Court of Appeals for a writ of
habeas coafus to be discharged, on the ground that the law
under which he was restrained of his liberty is unconstitutional
and void, and contravenes the Constitution of the United
States, being repugnant to that clause thereof which gives
to Congress the power to regulate commerce among the several States, and the laws of Congress passed thereunder. The
writ of habeas corpus was issued, and, the matter being argued
before the Court of Appeals, judgment was given against the
petitioner, and he was remanded to the custody of the sheriff.
To review that judgment this writ of error is brought.
We cannot perceive any distinction between this case and
that of .Robinsv. The fS7lel~y Taxing District, decided in
October Term, 1886, and reported in 120 U. S. 489. The
Tennessee law in that case declared that "All drummers, and
all persons not having a regular licensed house of business in
the taxing district, offering for sale or selling goods or merchandise therein, by sample, shall be required to pay to the
county trustee the sum of $10 per week, or $25 per month, for
such privilege;" and it was made a misdemeanor, punishable
by fine, to exercise such occupation without having first paid
the tax, or obtained the license required therefor. The plaintiff in error in that case was a citizen of Ohio, and was convicted for selling goods by sample for an Ohio firm without
having paid the tax or obtained the required license. The
law was, in all substantial respects, the same, and the circumstances were substantially the same as in the case now presented. Indeed, this is conceded by the Court of Appeals of
Texas in its opinion. But it is strenuously contended by that
court that the decision of this court in Robbins v. The 7elby
Taxing Di.trict is contrary to sound principles of constitutional construction, and in conflict with well adjudicated cases
formerly decided by this court and not overruled. Even if it

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

were true that the decision referred to was not in harmony
with some of the previous decisions, we had supposed that a
later decision in conflict with prior ones had the effect to overrule them, whether mentioned and commented on or not.
And as to the constitutional principles involved, our views
were quite fully and carefully, if not clearly and satisfactorily,
expressed in the Robbins case. We do not propose to enter
upon a renewed discussion of the subject at this time. If any
further illustration is desired of the unconstitutionality of
local burdens imposed upon interstate commerce by way of
taxing an occupation directly concerned therein, reference
may be made to the still more recent case of Ieloup v. Port
of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, which related to a general license
tax on telegraph companies, and was decided by the unanimous concurrence of the court.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Texas is reversed,
and the cause rerannded,with instructions to discharge the

plaintiff in errorfrom the imprisonment conlained of.

CHAP1PELL v. BRADSHAW.
EROR TO THE COUeT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 1037. Submitted October 22, 1888. -Decided

October 29, 1888.

To give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state court
under ยง 709 Rev. Stat. because of the denial by the state court of any title,
right, privilege or immunity, claimed under the Constitution or any
treaty or statute of the United States, it must appear on the record that
such title, right, privilege or immunity was" specially set up or claimed"
at the proper time, in the proper way.
An action of trespass on the case for damages by fire to the plaintiff's vessel in a port of the United States, alleged to have resulted from the negligence of the defendant's servants in cutting a burning scow or lighter
loose from a wharf, and allowing it to drift against the vessel, is "a
common law remedy" which the common law "is competent to give,"
and which is saved to suitors by the provisions of ยง 563, Rev. Stat. conferring admiralty and maritime jurisdiction upon District Courts of the
United States.

