OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

those to whom he sold his bonds; and the plaintiff, having
taken these coupons when overdue, had no greater rights than
he had in this respect. If the courts were to sanction such
claims, the commercial securities of the world would be nullified.
The decree of the Circuit Court is aijrmed.

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (Limited) v.
WICKHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 1032. Submitted November 12, 1888.-

Decided November 26,1888.

Each question certified in a certificate of division of opinion (1) Must be a distinct point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so
that it can be definitely answered, without regard to other issues
of law in the case;
(2) Must be a question of law only, and not a question of fact, or of
mixed law and fact, and hence must "not involve or imply a conclusion or judgment on the weight or effect of testimony or facts
adduced in the cause; and,
(3) Must not embrace the whole case, even when its decision turns upon
matter of law only, and even though it be split up into the form
of questions.
In a certificate of division of opinion the question whether parol evidence
may or may not be introduced to explain such documents as those which
were given in evidence by the defendant at the trial of this cause, and
which are set forth in the statement of facts below, is a question of pure
law, presenting but a single point for consideration, and the fact that
many writings, all of the same general character, were offered to prove
the same fact, does not make the case to differ.

The court stated the case as follows:
This case comes here by writ of error and a certificate of
division of opinion of the judges of the Circuit Court. The
action was brought upon a policy of insurance against fire to
recover damages occasioned by the burning of the propeller
St. Paul, of which the plaintiffs below, the defendants in error,
MOTION TO DISMISS.

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM. 427
Statement of the Case.

were the owners. The vessel was insured against fire in ten
companies, including the plaintiff in error, which issued two
policies amounting together to $5000. The St. Paul first took
fire at Detour, where the River St. ]AIary enters Lake Huron,
and had to 1te scuttled and sunk. She was then raised, and
taken to Detroit for repairs. There she took fire a second
time, and had to be again sunk. The mere injury to the
vessel was settled and paid for by the insurers before it was
due by the terms of the policies. The plaintiff contends that
the expense of raising and saving the vessel was not included
in this settlement, but was left for future adjustment, and this
suit was brought to recover that part of the loss. Similar
suits were brought against the other companies, all of which
were, by agreement, to abide the event of this. The defendants in error had a verdict and recovered judgment for
$2297.65, which would not have been sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction but for the difference of opinion between the
judges. That difference arose on the trial as will appear by
the following statement of the case:
It appeared in evidence that the first fire, at Detour, occurred on the 10th of November, 1883, and the second, at
Detroit, on the 24th of the same month whilst the cargo was
being unladen in order to make the necessary repairs. In
both cases the vessel was sunk for the purpose of saving her
and her cargo, and raised again at considerable expense. On
the 15th of December, 1883, a written agreement was entered
into between the plaintiffs and the adjusting agents of the
several insurance companies for the purpose of adjusting the
amount of loss caused by the fires to the hull, tackle, awnings,
apparel, furniture, engine and boiler connections and appurtenances thereto belonging; by which agreement certain arbitrators were appointed to make such adjustment without
reference to any other question or matter of difference within
the terms and condition of the insurance, and of binding effect
only as far as regards the actual cash value of, or damage to,
such property covered by the policies. The adjustment under
this agreement was completed December 26, 1883, showing a
loss of $15,3641.78, the proportion due by the plaintiffs in error

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

being $1920.60. The adjusting agent sent proofs of the loss
to the companies with the following letter to each, viz.:
'KBUFFALo, January 12th, 1884-.
"G NTLEmEN: I enclose herewith proofs, Jno.W. Wickham,
Jr., managing owner, for loss and damage prop. St. Paul,
which I trust will be found satisfactory:

The claim as made covers only the loss and damage by fire and water, as per agreement, on the
tackle, awnings, apparel, furniture, &c., of .
And the appraisers' award on hull, engines, mach'y,
&c., of .....
..............
.
"Aggregating in all ..

........

.

$1,735 08
13,629 70
$15,364: 78

"The assured will make further claims for expenses of raising the propeller, and is now preparing the statement of such
expenses to submit with his subsequent claim.
"Yours truly,
W. D. ALLEN, A uwster."
At the trial it was admitted that the cost of raising and
saving the vessel was upwards of $15,000. The plaintiffs admitted that they had been paid the cost of repairing the vessel as set forth in the proofs of loss prepared and forwarded
to the companies as aforesaid, but claimed that they had not
been paid any part of the cost of raising and saving the vessel;
that before the commencement of this suit they demanded payment thereof, which was refused, the insurers denying liability
therefor, and the same remains unpaid.
The defendants claimed that the payment of the cost of
said repairs was made by way of accord and satisfaction of
the plaintiffs' entire claim, and offered in evidence the following receipts:
"$1344.42.
JANuAY 19, 1884.
"Received from the Fire Insurance Association of London,
England, thirteen hundred and forty-four - dollars, it being
in full of all claims and demands for loss or damage by fire
which occurred on the 10th and 24th days of November, 1883,

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAM. 429
Statement of the Case.

to property insured by policy No. 180,617, Buffalo, NTew York,
agency, and in consideration of said payment said policy is
hereby cancelled and surrendered to said company, and all
further claims by virtue of said policy forever waived.
"(Signed)
Jonx W. WICiKaM, Jn..,
.Managing Owner.
W. B. COMSTOCK,
_per WICKHAM."
There was also a receipt indorsed upon the policy No.
180,617, as follows:
"J UA Y 19TH, 1884.
"In consideration of four y dollars, return premium, the
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, this policy is cancelled and surrendered to the Fire Insurance Association
(Limited) of England.
JOHN W. WICKHAM, JR.,
"(Signed)
.Afanaging Owner.
W. B. COMSTOCK,
.per WICKHAM,JR."
A similar receipt for $576.18 was given by the plaintiffs to
the defendant for the amount due on the other policy issued
by the latter. And like receipts, all of the same date except
two, which were a few days later, were given to the other
companies concerned, all of which were given in evidence by
the defendants.
The defendant also gave in evidence the following paper
signed by the plaintiffs, marked Exhibit QQ, viz.:
"New YoRx, January19th, 1884.
"This is to certify that the loss and damage by fire which
occurred on the 23d day of November, 1883, to the steamer
St. Paul, is this day adjusted for the sum of fifteen thousand
three hundred and sixty-four and - dollars ($15,364.78) payable without discount upon presentation of the policies,,to the
several companies interested by the assured, and apportioned
among the several companies as follows, viz.:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
Insures.

"Continental, of New York..... $7,500
6,000
London & Liverpool & Globe...
Fire Insurance Association .... 3,500
Queen's, of England .......... 7,000
1,500
Fire Ins. Ass'n, 2d policy ......
2,500
Security of New Haven .......
2,500
Exchange, of New York ......
Mechanics', of New York ..... 2,500
German, of Pa ................ 2,500
2,500
Prescott Insurance Co ........
Greenwich, of New York...... 2,000

00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00

,40,000 00

"(Signed)

Jom

Pays.

2,880
2,304
1,344
2,688
576
960
960
960
960
960
768

90
70-Paid.
42
Paid.
84- Paid.
18-Paid.
30-Will remit.
30-Paid 1, 19, '84.
30- Paid 1, 19, '84.
30 - Will remit.
30- Remitted.
24-Paid 1, 19, '84.

$15,361 78

W. WICKHnAM, JR.,

_ fanaging Owner.
W.

"JoN K. OAKLEY,

D. COMSTOoK,

per JoN W. WIKHAM, JR.

J. H. WELLMLNA,

Committee."

The court held that if these documents were sufficient evidence of an intent to compromise and settle the expense of
raising and saving the propeller, although the amount paid
was only that of the injury to the property, yet the anticipation of such payment nearly sixty days before, according to
the terms of the policies, it was due, was a sufficient consideration for such compromise.
The defendant having rested, the plaintiffs, in rebuttal,
offered evidence tending to show that in January, 1884, the
said Wickham went to New York; and that on the 19th of
that month, the day on which the receipts given by him to
the insurance companies, and the paper marked QQ were
dated and signed, and before they were signed, he, the said
Wickham, had an interview with Oakley and Welhan, the
committee of the insurance companies who signed the lastnamed paper, and also evidence of certain communications between said committee and Wickham in that interview, which
showed, or tended to show, that the said receipts and said
paper QQ were not intended to refer to or embrace the claim

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKUIA Al. 431
Argument for the Motion.

of the plaintiffs for raising and saving said vessel, but only the
claim for the damages specially included in the adjustment
made by the arbitrators before mentioned.
The defendants objected to the introduction of this parol
testimony tending to contradict the receipts and drafts given
in evidence and the certificate of January 19th, Exhibit QQ,
upon the ground that such evidence was not admissible in the
absence of fraud, misrepresentation and mistake. These objections were overruled by the presiding judge, and the evidence was received and submitted to the jury. This is one of
the points on which the judges differed in opinion. They state
the question as follows : "On the facts stated in the foregoing
record, was the parol testimony offered in evidence by the
plaintiffs admissible to vary and contradict the certificate of
January 19th, 1884, Exhibit QQ, and the receipts and drafts
hereinbefore set forth ?"
The evidence offered by the plaintiffs having been given to
the jury, the defendants offered evidence tending to contradict
the same, and to show that the whole matter arising out of
the loss was intended to be compromised and settled, by what
took place between the parties on the 19th of January, 1884.
There was no evidence that said agTeement of January 19th,
Exhibit QQ, and the several receipts and discharges executed
by the plaintiffs, were obtained by any fraud or misrepresentation of the defendants or their agents.
After the evidence was closed the defendant requested the
court to charge the jury that the defendant was entitled to a
verdict. On this point the judges who tried the cause were
also divided in opinion, the presiding judge being of opinion
that the request should not be granted; and this is the second
question certified to this court for its decision.
The defendant in error now moves to dismiss the writ of
error, mainly on the ground that the questions certified are
not distinct points of law which can be properly certified to
this court upon a difference of opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court.
X.Ar. F. HI. Canfeld and -Mr.H. H. Swa for the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for the Motion.

The first question certified does not present a point of law
which gives this court jurisdiction. The question is expressly
qualified by and wholly dependent for answer "on the facts
stated in the foregoing record." There are no facts found
upon which the question can be answered. The statement referred to is a mere narration of conflicting evidence. See
Jewell v. .Knigkt, 123 U. S. 426, 434; Ogilvie v. Zfnox Insurance Co., 18 How. 577; WVaterville v. Fan Slyke, 116 U. S.
699, 704; Enfield v. Jordan,119 U. S. 680; .Dennistoun v.
Stewart, 18 How. 565; Wilson, v. Barnum, 8 How. 257;
Prebsterv. Cooper, 10 How. 54.

It is submitted that the first question certified is obnoxious
to each one of these rulings: because (a) it explicitly and in
terms asks, not a question of law upon ascertained,facts, but
one which can only be answered by reference to conflicting
evidence, and which is dependent on the issues of fact in the
case; (b) it is not a question which this court is able to decide
without assuming or finding matters of fact which are for the
jury; (c) it admits of different answers, as the evidence of
the plaintiff or defendant is taken as the basis of the question;
(d) it is wholly dependent upon the character and intended
function of the papers referred to in the question, which was
a matter for the jury under the charge of the court.
In reply to this, it may be urged that the purpose of the
question is to elicit the opinion of this court on the legal effect
and operation of the papers mentioned; i.e., whether they
are contracts within the meaning of the rule excluding parol
testimony to vary or contradict them. To this there are
several obvious rejoinders: (1) The certificate does not ask
that question. (2) If it did, it would present the whole case
to this court. (3) To assume that the papers, Exhibit QQ,
and the drafts and receipts constitute the contract of accord
and satisfaction pleaded, is to beg the very question of fact in
issue between the parties.
The mere fact of payment of the fire loss before due is in
law no consideration for the discharge of the salvage claim,
for "nothing is consideration that is not regarded as such by
both parties." To regard it as such "would be to make a

FIRE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION v. WICKHAA.

433

Argument for the Motion.

contract for the parties to which their minds never assented."
An unknown or accidental consideration is not sufficient.
Philpot v. Gruninger, 14 Wall. 570; Ellis v. Clark, 110
Mass. 389, 392. And so the district judge charged the jury,
in substance.
The primary question is purely one of fact. The dependent
and secondary question as to the medium of proof is inseparable from the inquiry into the fact, and is not a pure question
of law. "The rule which excludes parol testimony to contradict or vary a written instrument has reference to the language
used by the parties. That cannot be qualified or varied from
its natural import, but must speak for itself. The rule does
not forbid an inquiry into the object of the parties in executing
and receiving theinstrument." Brick v. Brick, 98 U. S. 514.
It only applies when the parties to an agreement reduce it to
writing, and agree or intend that that writing shall be their
agreement. Harrisv. ickett, 4 I. & N. 46. See also iMobile
& .Afantgomery Riailroad v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584; lfake v.
Harrop, 6 H. & N. 768; Pym v. Campbell, 6 El. & Bl. 370;
-Davisv. Jones, 17 C. B. 625 ; Guardhousev. Blackburn, L. R.
1 P. & D. 109, 115.
While these rulings expressly decide the question of evidence which would seem to belong rather to the argument
upon the merits, the equally patent corollary from them is
that in the conflict of evidence as to the existence of and consideration for the alleged agreement, the question first certified
neither did nor could "occur on the trial" as a pure point of
law within the meaning of the law, even if it were not qualified and limited to the admissibility of the evidence, "on the
facts stated in the foregoing record."
Again, if as has been urged, the papers mentioned in the
question are inoperative against the claim for raising and saving the vessel, because of want of sufficient consideration, the
inquiry is pertinent whether there is any actual conflict between the papers thus limited and the parol testimony.
There is nothing on the face of Exhibit QQ, and the
drafts and receipts, excepting the general words of release of
claims under the policies to indicate that the words "the loss
vOL. cxxvn-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

and damage by fire" were used in any larger sense in them
than in Exhibit A. The amount of the expressed consideration is persuasive to the same construction. If that phrase
has the same meaning in all the papers, or if there is doubt
as to its interpretation, the oral testimony was competent to
apply the writing to their subject-matter, and there was no
conflict. Bradley v. WVashingtonr &c. Paeket Co., 13 Pet. 89 ;
United States v. Peck, 102 U. S. 64; Barreda v. Silsbee, 21
How. 146; United States v. 0ity Bank, 19 How. 385; and
the question became one for the jury under the charge of the
court - a mixed question of law and fact.
..Ab. C. I Walker and -Mr. F. A. Baker opposing.
AIR. JusTIcF

BrADLEY, after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
This subject has been so often and so recently discussed by
this court, that it is hardly necessary to do more than to state
the conclusion that must be drawn from the case as presented.
The law is so clearly stated, and the cases are so fully cited by
Mr. Sustice Gray in the recent case of Jewell v. Enight, 123
U. S. 426, 432, that nothing further need be said. It is there
laid down, first that the question certified "must be a distinct
point or proposition of law, clearly stated, so that it can be
definitely answered, -without regard to other issues of law or
fact in the case ;" secondly, it must be a "question of law
only, and not a question of fact, or of mixed law and fact;"
hence it must not involve or imply a conclusion or judgment
upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts adduced in the
cause -as, for example, a question of fraud, which is neces'sarily compounded of fact and of law ; thirdly, it must not embrace" the whole case, even when its decision turns upon matter of law only ;" and even though it be split up into the form
of questions. These propositions are illustrated by examples,
which need not be repeated here. Applying them to the case
in hand, we can have but little difficulty in disposing of the
present motion. The second question certified is clearly ob-

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
Statement of the Case.

noxious to the second and third rules; it asks us to decide
whether, upon all the evidence in the case, the defendant was
entitled to a verdict. This would require us to decide upon
the weight of the evidence and the conclusions to be drawn
from the facts. It would also require us to decide the whole
ca~e.
The first question is not open to these objections. It
presents a single point of law, namely, whether parol evidence
may or may not be introduced to explain such documents as
those which were given in evidence by the defendant. We
are not now asked to decide whether such evidence should
have been allowed in this case. That will be the question for
consideration when the case is argued on its merits. On the
present motion we are only required to decide whether the
question is one of pure law, and one that presents but a single
point for consideration. We think it is of that character. If
only a single writing had been offered in evidence by the defendant, the question whether parol evidence could have been
given to alter or explain it would clearly have been a single
question of law. The fact that many writings were offered,
all of the same general character, and offered to prove the
same fact, does not make the case to differ.
'he rotion to dismiss the writ must be denied.

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1162. Submitted November 5, 188.-Decided November 19, 188.

The longevity acts of 1882, 1883, 22 Stat. 284, 287, c. 391; 473,
authorize a restatement of the pay accounts of an officer
'who served in the regular or volunteer army or navy, so as
credit in the grade held by him, prior to their passage for
served in the army or navy reaching that grade.

c. 97, do not
of the navy
to give him
the time he

Tins was an appeal from a judgment against the United
States in favor of the plaintiff, Foster, for the sum of $1393.40,

