OCTOBER TERM5,

1888.

Syllabus.

iug that, under such circumstances, the fraudulent intent of
both parties to the transaction should be made out.
And inasmuch as there is no evidence from which such intent
on the part of Mrs. Hume or the insurance companies could be
inferred, in our judgment none of these premiums can be recovered.
The decree is ajflrmed, except sofar as it directs the payment
to the administratorsof the premiums in question and interest, and, as to that, is reversed, and the cause remanded
to the court below, with directions to proceed in conformity
with this opinion.

RIDINGS v. JOHNSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 44.

Submitted October 29, 1888. -Decided

November 12,1888.

When a bill in equity is dismissed by the court below on a general demurrer, without an opinion, it is an imposition on this court to throw
upon it the labor of finding out for itself the questions involved, and
the arguments in support of the decree of dismissal.
It is settled law that courts of the United States lose none of their equitable jurisdiction in States where no such courts exist; but, on the contrary, are bound to administer equitable remedies in cases to which they
are applicable, and which are not adapted to a common law action.
The complainant, being the owner of a tract in Louisiana, sold it to the intestate of one of the defendants, receiving a part of the purchase money
in cash and notes for the remainder secured by a mortgage of the tract,
which was not recorded. The purchaser afterwards mortgaged the
tract to the other defendant, and then died insolvent. The second mortgagee then caused the tract to be sold under judicial proceedings to pay
his mortgage debt, no notice being given to the complainant, although
he was aware of the nature of his claim upon the property. The complainant, having caused his mortgage to be recorded, filed this bill to
enforce his rights by a rescission of the sale to the decedent, offering to
refund the cash received by him and to give up the unpaid mortgage
notes. Held, that it was a proceeding in equity.
Since the passage of the act of 1855, p. 335, codified in the Revised Stat-

RIDINGS v. JOHINSON.
Opinion of the Court.
utes of Louisiana of 1870, p. 617, an unrecorded mortgage has no effect
as to third persons, not parties to the act of mortgage or judgment, even
though they had full knowledge of it.
In the state of the record it is impossible to determine whether the complainant is entitled to all, or to a part, or to any of the relief which he
seeks, and, the court below having erred in dismissing his bill for want
of jurisdiction, the case is remanded for further proceedings.

IN EQUrry. Defendant demurred. The demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed. The complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.X. James ... Grahanmfor appellants submitted on his brief.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JusTicE BA nEY delivered the opinion of the cburt.

This case comes before us in a most unsatisfactory manner.
It is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity on demurrer; and the record is grossly imperfect in omitting to set
forth the documents referred to in the bill, and necessary to a
fair understanding of the case; there is no opinion of the court
below showing the reasons of the decree, and no brief or
appearance of counsel for the appellees to explain on what
grounds the bill of complaint was faulty or insufficient. It is
an imposition on the court thus to throw upon it the labor of
finding out for itself the questions involved, and the arguments in support of the decree of dismissal. This is specially
true where, as in the present case, the system of laws out of
which the controversy grows, is an exceptional one and unfamiliar to the great body of lawyers and judges of the
country.
The leading facts of the case, as stated in the bill, are as
follows: In December, 1865, the original complainant, Cornelius F. Voorhies, sold to Samuel K. Johnson, the ancestor of
one of the defendants, the Experiment plantation situated in
the parish of Avoyelles, and for part of the purchase money
received from Johnson his two promissory notes for $4000
each, payable at a bank in New Orleans on the 1st of February,

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

1867, and 1868, which notes were secured by special mortgage
and vendor's privilege, reserved in the act of sale. This act
was not recorded in the office of the recorder of the parish
until April, 1872. At the maturity of the notes the time for
their payment was extended to the year 1871, when payments
were made amounting in the aggregate to $2727. No other
payments have ever been made.
On the 6th of February, 1868, Johnson granted to Payne,
Huntington & Co. a special mortgage on the same plantation
to secure future advances to the amount of $30,000, to aid in
cultivating it, and gave them his four notes for $7500 each.
When Payne, Huntington & Co. took this mortgage they were
fully aware of Voorhies's right of mortgage and privilege on
the plantation, and in their act of mortgage dispensed with
the production of a mortgage certificate. On the 15th of
March, 1870, Voorhies gave Payne, Huntington & Co. another
mortgage on the same plantation for $26,000, to cover $20,000,
then acknowledged to be due, and $6000 more to be thereafter advanced.
After this, Johnson dying insolvent, Payne, the other defendant, who was the head of the firm of Payne, Huntington
& Co., and assignee of the mortgages and notes given to his
firm, in December, 1873, sued out an executory process from
the District court of the parish of Avoyelles for the full
amount of the two mortgages given to the firm, namely,
$50,000, and had the plantation sold, and became himself the
purchaser for the sum of $20,210.33, and retained the whole
amount of adjudication on account of his debt. Of these proceedings Payne gave no notice to Voorhies, (who resided in
M issouri and was ignorant of what was being done,) and, to
facilitate the proceedings, procured from Johnson's executor
a written waiver of notice of demand, and notice of seizure,
and time, and a consent that the sheriff proceed with the seizure and sale as if the formalities had been strictly complied
with.
The sale upon the executory process was made in February,
1874, and a little over a year thereafter, in March, 1875, Voorhies filed the original bill in this case, to which the defendant

RIDINGS v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Payne demurred. The bill was then amended by filing what
is denominated in the record a supplemental bill, but which is
more in the nature of an amended bill - setting forth the facts
above stated with more particularity, and praying, 1st, for a cancellation of the sale made by Voorhies to Johnson, and a retrocession of the plantation; 2d, if this should be refused, then, for
a decree of nullity of the executory proceedings and sale to
Payne, and for a recovery of the amount due on the complainant's two notes, with an allowance of vendor's privilege and
mortgage with priority over the mortgages given to Payne,
Huntington & Co. ; 3d, if the decree of nullity should be refused,
then, that the complainant might be decreed to be paid out of
the proceeds of the adjudication to Payne, and that the latter
might be condemned to pay accordingly; and 4th, for general
relief.
The defendants again demurred, and the demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed. As the demurrer was a general
one, we cannot know with certainty for what reason it was
sustained by the court. There was a motion for rehearing,
and the grounds of that motion are spread upon the record,
as well as the complainant's brief, presented to the court on
that occasion. These documents lead us to infer that the
principal grounds of objection to the bill were, first, that the
executory process had the effect of a judgment, and, being
decided by a state court, c6uld not be brought in question in
a federal tribunal; secondly, that a proceeding to annul a sale
and compel the vendee to retrocede the property should be an
action at law, and not a suit in equity. The court gave the
complainant leave to amend his bill by inserting a charge of
fraud and a prayer for discovery, so as to give equitable jurisdiction; but this the complainant declined to do, and stood on
the equity of his bill. Whereupon the following consent order
was made, to wit: "On motion of the complainant and of defendants, suggesting that the former declines converting his
action into one for discovery, as allowed by the decree for
a new trial, it is agreed that this case be again submitted to
the court on the defendants' demurrer to the jurisdiction of
the court that this is not a case in equity, but one at law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon the court made a final decree dismissing the original and supplemental bills, and from that decree the present
appeal was taken.
The ground on which the bill thus seems to have been
finally dismissed, namely, that it exhibits a case for an action
at law only, and not for a suit in equity, is untenable. The
prayer for a cancellation of the original sale by Voorhies to
Johnson is based on the rule of law which prevails in Louisiana with regard to commutative contracts, that is, "contracts
in which what is done, given, or promised by one party, is
considered as equivalent to, or a consideration for, what is
done, given, or promised by the other." Civ. Code, art.
1768. The code declares that "a resolutory condition is implied in all commutative contracts, to take effect in case either
of the parties does not comply with his engagements; in this
case the contract is not dissolved of right; the party complaining of a breach of the contract may either sue for its
dissolution with damages, or, if the circumstances of the case
permit, demand a specific performance." Civ. Code, art.
2046. "The dissolving condition, . . . when accomplished,
operates the revocation of the obligation, placing matters in
the same state as though the obligation had not existed."
The creditor seeking to avail himself of it is obliged to restore
what he has received. Civ. Code, art. 2045. "If the buyer
does not pay the price, the seller may sue for the dissolution of
the sale." Civ. Code, art. 2561. In certain cases "the judge
may grant to the buyer a longer or shorter time, according
to circumstances, provided such term exceed not six months."
Civ. Code, art. 2562. In order to enforce the resolutory
condition there must be a judicial demand and a regular adjudication. Hennen's Digest, art. Obligations, VIII. (b), and
cases there cited. This resolutory condition may be waived,
or such changes may have taken place that the parties cannot
be put back into the same position in which they were, or the
delinquent party may have had a proper excuse for want of
promptness in performance; all which things are proper to
be submitted to the judgment of a court. In the present
case, the complainant offered by his bill to refund all the

RIDINGS v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

money he had received on the sale, and to give up and cancel
the two unpaid notes which he still held. Now, it seems to
us perfectly clear that a suit for enforcing such a condition
is eminently an equitable proceeding. The inquiry necessary
to be made into all the circumstances of the case with a view
to the possible exercise of discretion in giving to the defendant farther time, the decree of rescission itself, and the mutual
accounts to be rendered by the parties for interest received on
one side and fruits and profits on the other -one and all either belong, or are suitable, to equitable modes of relief, and
would be entirely unsuited to a common law action. The fact
that an action of nullity lies in such a case in Louisiana does
not vary the matter. Such an action lies there because there
are no courts of equity in that State; all suits are actions at
law; but, in the nature of things, if full justice is to be done,
some of these actions must admit of lines of inquiry, and
methods of relief which, under the English system, would be
proper for a suit in equity. And it is settled law that the
courts of the United States do not lose any of their equitable
jurisdiction in those States where no such courts exist ; but, on
the contrary, are bound to administer equitable remedies in
cases to which they are applicable, and which are not adapted
to a common law action. Thus, an equitable title or an equitable defence, though allowed to be set up in a state court,
cannot be set up in an action at law in the same State in the
federal courts, but must be made the subject of a suit in equity.
Fenn v. Holre, 21 How. 481; ZHurt v. H~ollingswor.th, 100
U. S. 100. We have distinctly held that the equity jurisdiction and remedies conferred by the laws of the United
States upon its courts cannot be limited or restrained by
state legislation, and are uniform throughout the different
States of the union. Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425. We
think, therefore, that the court erred in dismissing the bill
for want of jurisdiction.
There is still another ground for this conclusion. The second prayer of the bill is for nullity of the proceedings under
the executory process, and for a recovery of the amount due
to the complainant as holding a mortgage superior in rank to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgages given to Payne, Huntington & Co. In other
words this is virtually a prayer to annul the sale to Payne, to
decree priority in favor of complainant, and to have the property foreclosed and sold under his mortgage for the satisfaction of his debt. If not in words, this is the effect that would
be given to the prayer in view of the prayer for general relief.
Surely it cannot be disputed that this is a prayer for equitable
relief.
Therefore, if there was nothing more in the case than the
question of jurisdiction, we should be obliged to reverse the
decree at once, and send the case back for further proceedings.
But, on an appeal in an equity suit, the whole case is before
us, and we are bound to decide it so far as it is in a condition
to be decided. The bill was dismissed on demurrer for want
of jurisdiction. Though the court below may have erred in
dismissing it on this ground, yet. if we can see that there is
any other ground on which it ought to be dismissed, for example, want of equity on the merits, we must affirm the
decree. This makes it necessary that we should go into a
further examination of the case made by the bili and supplemental bill.
As before stated, we are laboring under a great deal of
embarrassment on account of the imperfect condition of the
record, and the absence of any indication on the part of the
defendant as to the grounds on which the bill is objected to.
But we think sufficient appears to enable us to form a tolerably satisfactory conclusion.
Fir.t, let us examine the main ground of complainant's
claim to relief, namely, that his vendor's privilege and mortgage is superior in right to that created by the mortgages
given to Payne, Huntington & Co., and hence that he is not
bound by the foreclosure of their mortgages by means of the
executory process. If this ground is untenable, if he has no
such superior right, the main support of his case is taken
away. And, of course, we must take the case as it is made
by his own showing.
Since, as we have seen, the complainant failed to have his
act of sale, by which he reserved the vendor's privilege and

RIDINGS v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage, recorded until April, 1872, more than six years
after its date, and the mortgages were given to Payne, Huntington & Co. in the meantime, namely, in February, 1868,
and March, 1870, they having full knowledge of his right, the
question is raised, which was once much mooted in Louisiana,
whether an unrecorded mortgage or conveyance has priority
over a subsequent one taken by a person who has full knowledge of the first. The conflict of opinion probably arose from
variations in the phraseology of different laws standing concurrently on the statute book. In 1808 the first code was
adopted, and in the section relating to the Registering of
Mortgages, it was declared that to protect the good faith of
third persons ignorant of the existence of mortgages, and to
prevent fraud, conventional and judicial mortgages should be
recorded, or entered in a public book kept for that purpose,
within six days from their date, when made in New Orleans,
and one day more for every two leagues distance therefrom;
and that if such recording was made within that time, it
should have effect against third persons from the date of the
mortgage; but if not, the mortgage should "have effect
against third persons, being bonac Xide, only from the day of
such recording." Code of 1808, p. 461, art. 52. This law
undoubtedly dispensed with inscription as against third persons
having notice of the mortgage; for they could not be said to
take in good faith a subsequent incumbrance antagonistic to
the mortgage. But not long after the adoption of the code
(March 241th, 1810) an act was passed declaring that no mortgage, and no notarial act concerning immovable property,
should have any effect against third persons until recorded
in the office of the judge of the parish. 3 Martin's Dig.,
138; 2 Moreau-Lislet, 285. This was certainly peremptory
language, and, taken literally, gave no room for indulgence
in favor of an unrecorded mortgage against third persons,
whether they had knowledge of it or not.
Then came the code of 1825, which repeated, in substance,
the provision of the code of 1808, declaring, in articles 3314
and 3315, that mortgages are only allowed to prejudice third
persona when they have been publicly inscribed on records

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.
kept for that purpose; but that by the words "third persons"
are to be understood all who are not parties to the act or
judgment on which the mortgage is founded, and who have
dealt with the debtor either in ignorance of the right or before
its existence. This again opened the door for indulgence. But
two years later (March 20, 1827) an act was passed relating to
conveyances in New Orleans, declaring that, whether executed
before a notary or by private act, they should have no effect
against third persons but from the day of their being registered. 2 Morean-Lislet, 303. And in 1855 an act was
passed declaring that no notarial act concerning immovable
property should have any effect against third persons until the
same should have been recorded in the office of the parish
recorder or register of conveyances of the parish where the
property was situated; and that all sales, contracts and judgments not so recorded should be utterly null and void except
between the parties thereto; and that the recording might be
made at any time, but should only effect third persons from
the time of the recording. Acts of 1855, p. 335; Rev. Stat.
1870, p. 617. In the same direction, on the revision of the
code in 1870, the last clause of article 3315, (now 3343,) which
made the ignorance of third persons a factor in the requirement of registry, was omitted, and the provisions of the act
of 1855 were inserted as new articles in the code under the
numbers 2264, 2265, 2266.
Under these changing and inconstant conditions of the textual law, the Supreme Court of Louisiana for a long time,
though with occasional opposition and dissent, maintained the
doctrine that actual knowledge of a prior unrecorded title or
mortgage is equivalent to the registry of it, or to notice resulting from such registry, so far as the person having such
knowledge is concerned. The cases holding this view are
collected in Hennen's Digest, (ed. 1861,) tit. Registry III. (a),
(1), D. The last cases firmly adhering to this doctrine were
Swala v. 2foore, 14 La. Ann. 833, decided in 1859 ; and Smith
v. _ambeth's Executors, 15 La. Ann. 566, decided in 1860.
Chief Justice Merrick dissented in the former case, holding to
the literal interpretation of the statute of 1855 as "The last

IDINGS v. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the Court.

expression of the legislative will upon the subject." This
court followed the Louisiana decisions in Pattersc v. De la
.R'onde, 8 Wall. 292, decided as late as December Term, 1868.
But in 1869 the tide turned, and the Supreme Court of
Louisiana came around to Chief Justice Merrick's view, and
in the cases of B,'itton &f Koontz v. J-aney, 21 La. Ann. 204,
and Hlarang v. Pottsrnier,21 La. Ann. 426, held to the strict
construction of the law, namely, that an unrecorded mortgage
was void as against third persons even though they knew of
such mortgage. The same ruling was made in _Rochereau v.
Dupasseur, 22 La. Ann. 402 In all of these cases the prior
mortgages were actually recited in the subsequent ones, and
yet lost their rank as against subsequent mortgages by reason
of not being reinscribed in proper time. These decisions have
been followed by a long series of others to the same purport.
See -Levy v. .Mentz, 23 La. Ann. 261; Succession,of Simon, 23
La. Ann. 533, 534; Gaiennij v. Gaiennij, 24 La. Ann. 79;
JRoclteeau v. Delacrox, 26 La. Ann. 584; Fllavaso
i
v. TWalker,
28 La. Ann. '75; Adams & Co. v. Daunis, 29 La. Ann. 315;
TFatson v. Bondurant,30 La. Ann. 1, 11.
We may, therefore, regard it as the settled jurisprudence of
Louisiana, that, at least from and since the passage of the law
of 1855, an unrecorded mortgage has no effect as to third persons not parties to the act of mortgage or judgment even
though they had full knowledge of it. The registry seems to
be intended not merely as constructive notice, but as essential
to the validity of the mortgage as to third persons.
It is interesting to know that this result coincides with the
doctrine of the .French jurists, deduced from the Code Napoleon, article 2134 of which declares, that "between creditors,
mortgage, whether legal, judicial, or conventional, has no
rank except from its inscription by the creditor on the records
of the custodian, in the form and manner prescribed by law,"
saving certain enumerated exceptions, not relating to the matter in hand. See Paul Pont, Privileges et Hypoth~ques, arts.
727, 728.
Privileges, especially the vendor's privilege, and other privileges affecting immovable property, have undergone much the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

same course of legislative restriction as that imposed upon
mortgages. Originally nearly all privileges, being created by
the law itself, were valid and effective without any public registry. But such secret liens often produced unjust effects,'and
legislation has been resorted to for the purpose of avoiding
this evil. The Civil Code of 1825 declared that "the vendor
of an immovable or slave only preserves his privilege on the
object when he has caused to be duly recorded, at the office for
recording mortgages, his act of sale, in the manner directed."
The lien, or privilege of laborers, mechanics and contractors,
was subjected to a like restriction; and as to both kinds, it
was declared that they must be recorded within six days from
date, an additional day being allowed for every two leagues
distance from the place where the act was passed to that
where the register's office was kept; and if not recorded
within the time limited, they should have no effect as a privilege, that is, should confer no preference over creditors who
had acquired a mortgage in the meantime and recorded it;
but would be good against third persons from the time of
being recorded. Civ. Code, arts. 3238-41. This was the law
in force when Voorhies sold the plantation to Johnson, and
when Johnson gave his first mortgage to Payne, Huntington
& Co. In August, 1868, a new constitution was adopted in
Louisiana, by the 123d article of which it was declared that
the legislature should provide for the protection of the rights
of married women to their dotal and paraphernal property
and for the registration of the same; but that no mortgage or
privilege should thereafter affect third parties unless recorded
in the parish where the property to be affected was situated;
and that tacit mortgages and privileges then existing in the
State should cease to have effect against third persons after
the 1st of January, 1870, unless duly recorded; and that the
legislature should provide by law for the registration of all
mortgages and privileges. The legislature was not slow to
obey this constitutional injunction. In September, 1868, it
passed a law amending the sections of the code recited above,
and changing article 3240 so as to make the privileges referred
to, namely, those of a vendor of an immovable, and of laborers

RIDINGS v. JOHNSON.
Opi.nion of the Court.

and mechanics, valid against third persons only from the time
of recording; thus taking away the retroactive effect of a
registry which it previously had when made within the prescribed time. In March, 1869, a further law was passed providing for the registry of the privileges of married women for
their dotal and paraphernal rights, and declaring that all persons entitled to a mortgage or privilege on the property of
another shall cause it to be recorded in the mortgage book
of the parish; which recording, it was declared, shall have the
effect of operating a mortgage or privilege on the property,
but no other effect. These provisions were subsequently incorporated in the Revised Code, adopted in March, 1870, and article 324:1 (now 3274) was further amended by declaring that no
privilege shall confer a preference over creditors who have acquired a mortgage unless recorded on the day the contract was
entered into.
All these amendments of the law have been interpreted and
administered by the courts of Louisiana in such a manner as
to give them their full literal effect. See Lombas v. Co/let, 20
La. Ann. 79; 3Iarmillon v. Arc]inard,24 La. Ann. 610; Gay
v. Bovard, 27 La. Ann. 290; Bank of America v. Fortier,
3d opposition of Gay, 27 La. Ann. 243; .I[orrison v. Citizen'
Bank, 27 La,. Ann. 401; Succession of Mlarc, 29 La. Ann. 412;
_Logaw v. Herbert, 30 La. Ann. 727; Slocomb v. ]?ogilio, 30
La. Ann. 833; Gay v. ]iDaigre, 30 La. Ann. 1007; Gallaugher
v. Hebrew Congregation, 35 La. Ann. 829; Givanovitch v.
Hebrew Congregation, 36 La. Ann. 272.
An examination of these cases shows that the .requirement
that a vendor's privilege must be recorded within the time
allowed by law (that is, within six days from date, prior to
1870; and on the day of the date, since 1870) in order to
give it priority over a mortgage recorded before it, relates to
mortgages given by the vendee as well as mortgages given by
the vendor. According to the decisions, the act of sale passes.
the property to the purchaser whether recorded or not, so that
he can make valid mortgages on it, as well as subject it to
judgments against him; but unless recorded in the office of
the register of mortgages, it does not preserve the vendor's

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

privilege. It was at one time held otherwise, namely, that if
the vendor's privilege was recorded simultaneously with the
act of sale, (which it always is when it is contained in the act
of sale,) the privilege was seasonably recorded to preserve it
in full force. Poohereauv. Colornb, 27 La. Ann. 337 ; Jumonyille v. iarhp, 27 La. Ann. 461. But these decisions were
overruled in subsequent cases. Gallaugher v. -ebrew Congregation, 35 La. Ann. 829; Givancvitch,v. Hebrew Congregation, 36 La. Ann. 272.
The doctrine of the French jurists, deduced from the Code
Napoleon, corresponded substantially with the decisions in
Rochereau v. Colornb, and Jumonville v. Stta2p. The text of
the code was nearly the same as that of the Louisiana statutes.
Art. 2106 declares, that "between creditors, privileges have
no effect on immovables, except when they are made public by
inscription on the records of the custodian of mortgages, in
the manner prescribed by law, and to be computed from the
date of such inscription," subject to the exceptions enumerated which do not affect the present question. See Paul Pont,
Privileges et Hypoth~ques, arts. 252, 253, etc. But, of course,
in the law of real estate (immovables) we are to follow
the final decisions of the state courts. Thatcher v. Powell,
6 Wheat. 119; Beauregard v. -ew Orleans, 18 How. 497;
Suydam v. ITilliamson, 24: How. 427; Fai,,ft v. Gallatin
County, 100 U. S. 47; Bondurant v. Watson, 103 U. S.281;
Enjeld v. Jardan,119 U. S. 680.
From this review of the Louisiana law of registry as applied
to mortgages and privileges, it is clear that Voorhies, by
neglecting to record his act of sale until 1872, lost the priority,
of his vendor's privilege and mortgage as against Payne,
Huntington & Co., provided they recorded their mortgages
taken in 1868 and 1870 ; and, in that case, they had a perfect
right to proceed to the foreclosure of their mortgages, without
making Voorhies a party if their mortgages contained theyact
de non alienando. But here again the defects of the record
prevent us from knowing the truth; defects which the appellee,

Payne, could have had remedied had he given any attention
to this appeal, and required the acts of sale, and the pro-

ESTIS v. TRABUE.
Syllabus.

ceeding referred to in the bill of complaint, to be returned to
this court. As it is, we do not know that Payne, Huntington
& Co. did record their mortgages, nor whether they contained
the pact de non, alienando. As the case stands before us
it does not appear that they were ever recorded, or that they
contained the pact. If neither of these things took place, then
the complainant is entitled to at least a portion of the relief
which he seeks. He is entitled to have the property foreclosed
and subjected to the payment of his mortgage. For, in that
case, being a prior mortgagee from the time of recording the
act of sale, he is not bound by the proceedings on the executory
process to which he was not a party. Dupasseurv. Rochereau,
21 Wall. 130; Jackson v. ludeling, 21 Wall. 616. He is
hardly in a position to ask for a rescission of his sale to Johnson, whether his privilege and mortgage have been prescribed
or not, for it has been held by the Supreme Court of Louisiana
that the parties to the sale and the rescission must be the same.
Augusta Ins. Co. v. Packwood, 9 La. Ann. 7'4. The suit is now
properly against Payne, as well as the executor of Johnson,
and Payne is not one of the parties to the act of sale. However, on this point we give no opinion.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be 'reversed, and the
cause r'emandedwith instructions to overrule the dernurrer,
and to give the defendants leave to answer the bill, with
such further proceedings as law and equity may require.

ESTIS v. TRABIUE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 50. Argued and submitted October 31, 1888.

Decided November 19, 1888.

A writ of error, in which both the plaintiffs in error and the defendants in
error are designated merely by the name of a firm, containing the expression "& Co." is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, but, as
the record discloses the names of the persons composing the firms, the
VOL. CxxvfII-15

