OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ILEMESSY v. WOOLWORTH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINESOTA.
No. 74. Argued November 13, 14, 1888. -Decided

November 26,1888.

Specific performance is not of absolute right, but rests entirely in judicial
discretion, to be exercised according to settled principles of equity,
but always with reference to the facts of the particular case.
A decree for specific performance should never be granted unless the terms
of the agreement sought to be enforced are clearly proved, nor when it
is left in doubt whether the party against whom relief is asked in fact
made such an agreement as is alleged.
The assent of the husband of a married woman to the terms of an agreement made by an agent for the sale and conveyance of lands of the wife
situated in Minnesota is not sufficient to bind the wife.
In this case, it not being clearly established that the wife assented to the
agreement for the sale of her real estate of which a specific performance
is sought to be enforced, though the assent of the husband is shown, the
decree is refused.

THE court stated the case as follows:
The appellees, S. B. Woolworth, and Clara Woolworth, his
wife, the plaintiffs below, claiming to have been for more than
ten years prior to the 13th of June, 1883, in the constant,
actual and lawful possession of lots 4 and 9, block 20, Robert
and Randall's addition to St. Paul, Minnesota, and averring
that the appellant, the defendant below, wrongfully asserted
an interest therein adverse to them, brought this suit in one of
the courts of the State, for the purpose of obtaining a decree
adjudging that the defendant has no right, title, estate, lien,
or interest in those lots, and for such other relief as was
proper. The suit was based upon a statute of Minnesota providing that "an action may be brought by any person in possession, by himself or his tenant, of real property, against any
person who claims an estate or interest therein, or lien upon
the same, adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such
adverse claim, estate, lien, or interest; and-any person having
or claiming title to vacant or unoccupied real estate may bring

HENNESSY v. WOOLWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

an action against any person claiming an estate or interest
therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such
adverse claim, and the rights of the parties respectively."
General Statutes of Minnesota 1878, c. 75, ยง 2, p. 814. The
suit was subsequently removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States.
The original complaint having been ordered to stand as a
complaint in equity in the Circuit Court, the defendant filed an
answer controverting all of its material allegations, and, also,
by leave filed a cross-bill, seeking a decree for the specific execution of a written agreement, which was put upon record,
and is alleged to have been made between him and the plaintiffs on the 23d of December, 1881, for the sale and conveyance
by them to him of the lots in question. That agreement is as
follows:
"Received at St. Paul, Minn., this 23d day of December,
1881, of David J. Hennessey, of Dubuque, Iowa, the sum of
fifty dollars as earnest and in part payment of the price of
lots four (4) and nine (9), in block twenty (20), of Robert and
Randall's addition to St. Paul, Minn., which, as the authorized
agent of Clara Woolworth and S. B. Woolworth, her husband,
of the last-named city and State, I have bargained and sold to
the said Hlennessey for ten thousand dollars to be paid, and
which the said Hlennessey stipulates to pay, as follows, to wit;
twenty-five hundred dollars, less aforesaid earnest money, on
delivery to the said Hennessey of good warranty deed with
full covenants, which shall convey to the said Hennessey from
the said Woolworths good, clear, and perfect title, except as to
the notes and mortgages hereinafter mentioned, to said property and to all improvements and appurtenances thereunto
belonging, and after-the said Hennessey shall have been furnished by the said Woolworths with a complete, official, and
certified abstract of title to the said property, which shall
show title in them thereto as aforesaid, and nineteen hundred
dollars on or before one year, and nineteen hundred dollars on
or before two years, and nineteen hundred dollars on or before
three years from the deliver7, as aforesaid and the giving to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

said Hennessey of possession of said premises and the emoluments, with interest at the rate of seven per centum per
annum, payable annually, except in case of a note taken up
before due, and the three last-mentioned sums are to be secured by mortgage back on the said premises, and the said
Hennessey is to assume, from and after the last-mentioned
date and from and after that date only, a certain note and
mortgage for eighteen hundred dollars, which plaintiffs made
August 10th, 1880, and running from Seth B. Woolworth and
Clara Woolworth to Edwin W. Rice, which said mortgage is
recorded in the office of the register of deeds of said Ramsay
County, in Book 59 of Mortgages, on page 218, and which the
said Htennessey agrees, under and in accordance with the said
stipulations herein contained, and each of them, to pay when
due.
"It is, moreover, agreed that if there are any clouds or
defects in the title to the said property they and each of them
shall be removed and cured with becoming diligence by the
said Woolworths, and if not removable or curable the aforesaid fifty dollars is to be refunded and this contract to be null
and void, at the option of the said Hennessey, and to be void,
also, at the option of the said Hennessey, in the event of
the neglect or failure on the part of the said Woolworths to
remove or cure the clouds or defects which may be on said
title.
"P. T. KAvANA-umH,
"Agent of Clara Woowvorth and .B. 1oolworth.
"Witnesses:
"DAvID J. =ENNESSEY.
"H. A. Estes.
"H. M'Carthy."
Replications to the answer and cross-bill were filed by the
plaintiffs, and a decree rendered dismissing the cross-bill and
giving them the relief asked by the original bill or complaint.
By that decree it was, among other things, adjudged that the
instrument of Dec. 23, 1881, was not authorized by the plaintiffs, or either of them, and was void; that the defendant has
no right or interest in said.lots in virtue of that writing. The

HENNESSY o. WOOLWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant and all persons claiming under him were enjoined
from asserting any interest in the lots as against the title or
possession of the plaintiffs or either of them.
It was in proof that the plaintiffs, under date of December
8, 1881, executed and delivered to Kavanaugh a writing as
follows:
"ST. PiuIL, Dec. 8, 1881.

"P. T. Kavanaugh: We hereby authorize you to sell for us
lots 4 and 9, block 20, Robert & Randall's Addition to St.
Paul, for ten thousand dollars liet to us.
" CLARA "WOOLWORTH.

"S. 33.

WOOLVORTH."

There was some evidence tending to show that when Hennessey purchased there was exhibited to him a writing purporting to be signed by the plaintiff, and which authorized
Kavanaugh to make sale of these lots upon substantially the
terms embodied in the written agreement of December 23,
1881.
The lots, it should be stated, were the property of :mrs.
Woolworth, having been purchased with her means.
.Mr,. .Xartin F. .Xorisfor appellant.
.AIf. 1.

. D. Heard for appellees.

Mn. JUSTIcE

HAR

A

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts as above reported, he continued: It
is not claimed, as it could not well be, that the writing executed by plaintiffs on Dec. 8, 1881, invested Kavanaugh with
authority to assent, on behalf of the appellees, to the terms
contained in the agreement of December 23, 1881. Authority
to sell the lots for "$10,000 net" to the plaintiffs was not
authority to impose upon them the burdensome conditions
embodied in the last writing. Besides, it is clear from the
evidence that Hlennessey declined to enter upon negotiations
for the lots unless Kavanaugh obtained from appellees some

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

writing conferring upon him as their agent larger powers than
were given by the writing of December 8, 1881. The controlling question, therefore, as the court below properly said, was
whether the appellees invested Kavanaugh with authority to
make sale of the property upon the terms set forth in the
writing of December 23, 1881.
It may be conceded, for the purposes of the present case,
that in executing that writing Kavanaugh did not exceed the
authority given him by Woolworth, and that the latter gave
Hennessey to understand that he assented to a sale on the
terms contained in it. But the husband did not own the property, and his assent alone was insufficient to pass the title of
the wife. General Stats. Minn. 1878, c. 69, ยง 2, 4, p. 769.
Under any, even the most liberal interpretation of the local
statutes relating to the contracts of married women for the
sale of their real property, the appellant could not have a
specific performance of the agreement of December 23, 1881,
unless it was satisfactorily shown that Mrs. Woolworth, in
some legal form, authorized its execution by Kavanaugh on
her behalf. We are of opinion that a case is not made which
would justify a decree in plaintiff's favor on the cross-bill.
Specific performance is not of absolute right. It rests elitirely
in judicial discretion, exercised, it is true, according to the settled principles of equity, and not arbitrarily or capriciously,
yet always with reference to the facts of the particular case.
Willard v. TRyloe, 8 Wall. 557, 567; _farb/e Co. v. Ripley, 10
Wall. 339, 357; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. ยง 742; Seymour v. Delancey, 6 Johns. Ch. 222, 224. The question in cases of specific
performance, Lord Eldon said, is not what the court must do,
but what, under the circumstances, it may do, in the exercise
of its discretion to grant or withhold relief of that character.
TF7ite v. Damon, 7 Yes. 30, 35; Radclife v. Warrington, 12
Yes. 326, 331. It should never be granted unless the terms
of the agreement sought to be enforced are clearly proved, or,
where it is left in doubt whether the party against whom relief
is asked in fact made such an agreement. Colson v. Thompson, 2 Wheat. 336, 341 ; Carr v. Duval, 14 Pet. 77, 83; THuddleston v. Br'iscoe, 11 Yes. 583, 591; L-anz v. 2JcLaug/din, 14

JONES v. EAST TENNESSEE &c. RAILROAD CO. 443
Counsel for Parties.

Minnesota, 72; Waters v. ioward, 1 Maryland, Ch. 112, 116.
That Mrs. Woolworth united with her husband in the writing
of December 8, 188, is clearly established. But that she ever
signed any other writing relating to the sale of the lots in
question, or authorized or directed her husband, or Kavanaugh, or any one else, to sell the lots upon the terms embodied in the writing of December 23, or that she approved or
ratified a sale to Hennessey upon such terms, is to say the
least, very doubtful under the conflicting evidence in this
cause. The Circuit Court did not, therefore, err in refusing
specific performance and dismissing the cross-bill. And as the
agreement of December 23, 1881, was not shown to be the
contract of Mrs. Woolworth, the appellees were entitled to
such a decree as was rendered on the original bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

JONES v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND GEORGIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEtNESSEE.
No. 58. Argued November 2,18.

-Decided

November 12, 1888.

When, in an action by an employ6 of a railroad company against the company to recover damages for a personal injury inflicted upon him, by
reason of an engine in motion striking him, it is conceded that the defendant company was in fault on account of the manner of running its
trains, and the defence is set up that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence, and there is conflicting evidence on that point, the plaintiff is entitled to have that question submitted to the jury.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.31r. Henry H. Ingersoll for plaintiff in error.

.Xr.William -ff.Baxter for defendant in error.

