CRAGIN v. POWELL.
Syllabus.

establishing these facts, by showing by witnesses, engaged for
many years in the business of manufacturing and selling cigars,
that they never knew or heard of any being sold under the
name of "La Normanda." But the evidence to that effect is
entirely negative in its character, and is not sufficient to overcome the direct, positive testimony of witnesses, some of whom,
as early as 1853, actually manufactured and sold "La Normanda" cigars of the kind above described, while others
remember that domestic cigars, under that designation, were
in the market before Bijur commenced the manufacture of the
"La Normandi" cigars. In this view of the evidence the
plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief asked. The adoption
by Bijur of the words "La lormandi," as part of his trademark, could not take away the right previously acquired by
the public in the use of the words "La Normanda" as indicating a particular kind of cigars.
This conclusion is sufficient to dispose of the case, and renders it unnecessary to consider other grounds upon which, it is
insisted, the decree below should be sustained.
The decree is affi'med.

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
.APFEA.

FROM THE

COUIT COURT OF THE U ITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 41.

Argued and submitted October 26, 1858. -

Decided December 17, 1888.

When lands are granted according to an official plat of their survey, the
plat, with its notes, lines, descriptions and landmarks, becomes as much
a part of the grant or deed by which they are conveyed, and, so far as
limits are concerned, controls as much as if such descriptive features
were written out on the face of the deed or grant.
It is not within the province of a Circuit Court of the United States or of
this court to consider and determine whether an official survey duly
made, with a plat thereof filed in the District Land Office, is erroneous;
but, with an exception referred to in the opinion, the correction of
errors in such surveys have devolved from the earliest days upon the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the supervision of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
official superior, and his decisions are unassailable by the courts, except
in a direct proceeding instituted for that purpose.
When the General Land Office has once made and approved a governmental
survey of public lands, the plats, maps, field notes and certificates having been filed in the proper office, and has sold or disposed of such lands,
the courts have power to protect the private rights of a party who has
purchased in good faith from the government, against the interferences
or appropriations of subsequent corrective resurveys made by the Land
Office.
One who acquires land knowing that it covers a portion of a tract claimed
by another will be held either not to mean to acquire the tract of the
other, or will be considered to be watching for the accidental mistake
of others, and preparing to take advantage of them, and as such not
entitled to receive aid from a court of equity.

THis was a proceeding under a local statute of Louisiana
for the purpose of ascertaining the boundary line between
coterminous proprietors. The case is stated in the opinion of
the court.
lMir. J. D. Rouse, with whom was Mrb'.
the brief, for appellant.
_Xr. J. S.

17illiam Grant on

F-hitaker, for appellees, submitted on his brief.

MR. JUSTIcE L-NiA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees, Christian L. Powell, Joseph 0. Ayo, and
Ludger Gaidry, on the 1st of November, 1880, brought an
action of boundary in the state court against the appellant,
George D. Cragin, praying for a judgment of the court to fix
the boundaries between certain lands, the property of appellees, and the contiguous lands belonging to appellant, and that
he be ordered to deliver to appellees possession of the lands
claimed and set forth in their petition.
On the 12th of July 1880, the cause was removed into the
Circuit Court of the -United States, on the ground of diverse
citizenship.
The answer of appellant sets up that he and his grantors,
who had acquired the lands from original patentees, had been
in public, peaceable and continuous possession of the lands

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
Opinion of the Court..

included in his deed by well-defined boundaries for more than
thirty years, and without notice of the claims of any person
whatsoever; and that it is unnecessary to fix or establish any
boundaries as prayed in the petition.
On the 2d of May, 1881, on motion of counsel for appellees,
the court appointed a surveyor, for the purpose of ascertaining and fixing the boundary lines between the properties of
the respective parties litigant, and ordered him to report his
proceedings within reasonable time. By mutual consent of
parties, Benjamin McLeran was selected by the court as such
surveyor.
On June 6, 1881, McLeran filed his report of the survey
made by him, and its results. From this report it appears
that the township and sections in which the lands of the
parties are located were officially surveyed in 1837 by one G.
W. Connelly, as part of the public domain, and that the plat
of such survey was filed in the United States Land Office of the
district ; that he considered this survey of Connelly so incorrect, and the traces of its lines and corners so difficult to
identify, that he was unable to locate any proper line between
the lands in question, 6xcept upon the basis of a resurvey of the
entire township, in accordance with certain corrective resurveys of adjoining townships, which had been made in 1850,
and succeeding years, by one Joseph Gorlinski, a deputy
United States surveyor. In this view, and guided by the
theory of these corrective surveys, McLeran proceeded to run
a line which he considered the proper boundary between the
lands in question, and recommended its adoption to the court
"as substantially such a line as would have been run had the
whole township been resurveyed at the time when Deputy
Surveyor Gorlinski was resurveying the adjoining townships."
With this report he fied two maps, No. 1, a map of his own
survey, and No. 2, a map designed to exhibit the discrepancies
between the Connelly survey, and the survey of Joseph Gorlinski and that of AlcLeran himself. These discrepancies are:
(1) By the Gorlinski and the McLeran surveys the township
lacked half a mile of being six miles square, the eastern tier
of sections thereof losing fully one-half of the area given by

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

them in the official plat, which official survey establishes a full
township as prescribed by law; (2) By Connelly's plat "a
bayou, known as Bayou Four Points," is located on appellant's
lands, whilst by iMcLeran's map that bayou is located on the
lands of appellees. In his supplemental report MeLeran says
"it appears that Bayou Four Points was erroneously reported
by the original survey." The report also says: "The ridges
on either side of the bayous are composed of a rich, black,
loamy soil,

.

.

. and when put under cultivation become

the best sugar-producing lands in the South. The far greater
portion of the township consists of a marsh,

.

.

.

worth-

less for cultivation."
The line recommended by McLeran places the lands of the
appellees where those of the appellant are located by the official survey, and thus gives to the former the rich ridges along
the bayous now in the possession of the latter.
The appellant was required to show cause by the 19th of
November, 1881, why the report of McLeran should not be
approved and homologated as being a true and correct survey
in the premises. Thereupon the court, upon motion of the
appellant, and against the opposition of the appellees, ordered
that the cause be placed on the equity docket and proceed as
in equity. Opposition to the report was afterwards duly filed,
alleging that, if approved, the appellant would be deprived of
lands to which he held title through mesne conveyances from
United States patents, and of which he and his grantors had
held possession for thirty years and upwards.
An amended answer by appellant and replication by appellees having been filed, the cause was put at issue. The
court, upon the pleadings and evidence, confirmed the report
of the surveyor, and rendered a decree fixing the boundary
line between the two estates according to the prayer of the
original petition.
The primary object of the action of boundary, under the
Civil Code of Louisiana, is to determine and fix the boundary
between contiguous estates of the respective proprietors. The
provision of the code in article 845, and other provisions under
title 5 of the code, that the limits must be fixed according to

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the titles of the parties, are held by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana to apply to cases in which neither party disputes the
title of his antagonist. Sprigg v. looper, 9 Rob. La. 248,
253; Zeringue v. .Harang,17 Louisiana, 349; Blanc v. Cousin,
8 La. Ann. 71. The title to the property is not allowed to be
litigated in this action, whose purpose is to fix a line or boundary between adjoining claims. When, therefore, in the course
of the proceedings in this case, the surveyor appointed to survey
and fix a boundary between the respective properties of the parties made a report, alleging mistakes in the official survey, and
recommending a line, the effect of which, if adopted, would
eject the appellee from the lands held by him under a claim of
valid title, the court below ordered the case to be placed upon
the equity side of the docket, thus bringing, it was supposed,
within its equitable cognizance the essential rights of the parties, unaffected by the special limitations governing the action
of boundary.
To determine the grounds upon which this court is asked to
reverse the decree of the court below, it is necessary to advert
in some detail to the facts as shown by the record.
In 1844 the United States issued to one Bach patents to certain portions of sections 10, 15 and 22 of township 2.0 south,
range 17 east, in the southeast district west of the river, according to the official plat of the survey of said lands returned to the
General Land Office of the United States by the surveyor
general.
The appellant is the owner of the lands thus patented to
Bach; and for many years he, and those under whom he
claims, have been in possession of the lands, which, according
to the official survey, were embraced in said patents..
In April, 1878, one Samuel Wolf purchased from the State
of Louisiana portions of the same sections 10, 15 and 22, and
also portions of sections 14 and 23 of the same township, all
adjoining the lands of the appellant. These lands last described were given to the State as swamp lands, under the act
of the 20th of March, 1849, and were noted as such on the
official plat referred to above. In 1879 Wolf sold this property to Powell, one of the appellees, who in May, 1880, sold

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

an undivided half to the other two appellees; and in the same
year they brought this action of boundary.
In support of the decree of the court below, it is urged by
counsel for appellees that "there is nothing in the patents or
title on record to show, by word or otherwise, any distinct
calls, designating their location; nothing given descriptive of
the property, except the township, the section and the range;
nothing to describe the lands patented or conveyed, either as
high lands, swamp or overflowed lands, or as having upon
them any water course or bayou." He admits, however, that
the plat in evidence contains upon its face the names of certain
bayous, as "Bayou Cailliou," "Grassy," "Sal," and others;
but says "that the original patents and conveyances, apart
from the plat, are silent upon the subject, except that the
defendant's title calls for land on Bayou Grand Cailliou."
In this view, which seems to be the one on which the court
below must have acted, the learned counsel is mistaken. It is
a well settled principle that when lands are granted according
to an official plat of the survey of such lands, the plat itself,
with all its notes, lines, descriptions and landmarks, becomes
as much a part of the grant or deed by which they are conveyed, and controls so far as limits are concerned, as if such
descriptive features were written out upon the face of the deed
or the grant itself.
The patent of the State of Louisiana to Wolf was of the
east half of southeast quarter of section 10, east half of east
half of section 15, etc., "containing 635.51 acres tidal overflow according to the official plat of the survey of said lands
in the state land office." By that plat the portions of the
sections patented to Wolf were noted as tidal overflow; and
as such they had been certified to the State by the General
Land Office and the Interior Department. By the same plat
Bayou Four Points was noted as running through those portions of sections 10, 15 and 22, which had been patented to
Bach, who doubtless entered them, and obtained patents for
them, because of the high lands so noted on this bayou.
Equally unsound is the contention on behalf of the appellees
that "the land was sold and patented not as pointing to any

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

bayou, nor with reference to the character of the land, whether
as swamp or high land." The statutes of the United States
make it the duty of the surveyor general to note "all water
courses over which the line he runs may pass; and also the
quality of the lands." Rev. Stat. § 2395, subdiv. 7. And
they provide that a copy of the plat of survey shall be kept
for public information in the office of the surveyor general, in
the offices where the lands are to be sold, and also in the office
of the Commissioner of Public Lands. They further provide
that "the boundary lines actually run and marked in the surveys returned by the surveyor general shall be established as
the proper boundaryolines of the sections or subdivisions for
which they were intended, and the length of such lines, as returned, shall be held and considered as the true length thereof." Rev. Stat. § 2396, subdiv. 2.
The surveyor, MeLeran, insists not only in his original
report of his survey, but also in his second explanatory report,
and in his oral evidence, that this governmental survey is incorrect; some of it more incorrect than the rest, but especially
erroneous in the length of its lines and in the location of
Bayou Four Points on the portions of the sections patented
to the appellees. The plat, he reports, is totally inconsistent
with that of the governmental survey, and should have been
rejected by the court below.
Whether the official survey made by Connelly is erroneous,
or should give way to the extent of its discrepancies to the
survey reported by McLeran, is a question which was not
within the province of the court below, nor is it the province
of this court to consider and determine. The mistakes and
abuses which have crept into the official surveys of the public
domain form a fruitful theme of complaint in the political
branches of the government. The correction of these mistakes and abuses has not been delegated to the judiciary,
except as provided by the act of June 14, 1860, 12 Stat.
33, c. 128, in relation to Mexican Land claims, which was
repealed in 1864, 13 Stat. 332, c. 194, § 8. From the earliest
days matters appertaining to the survey of public or private
lands have devolved upon the Commissioner of the General

698

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Land Office, under the supervision of the Secretary of the
Interior. Rev. Stat. § 453. The Commissioner, in the exercise of his superintendence over surveyors general, and of all
subordinate officers of his bureau, is clothed with 1arge powers
of control to prevent the consequences of inadvertence, mistakes, irregularity and fraud in their operations. Rev. Stat.
§ 2478; Bell v. Hfearne, 19 How. 252 and 262. Under the
authority of specific appropriations by Congress, for that purpose, the resurveys of public lands have become an extensive
branch of the business of the General Land Office.
In 1848 the surveyor general of Louisiana urgently recommended a resurvey of certain townships in the district of
Louisiana, and of all lands fronting on Bayou Cailliou, in
Terre Bonne, which had been surveyed by F. G. Connelly and
other named surveyors. It was in accordance with this recommendation that Gorlinski made the resurveys above referred
to. But the Commissioner of the General Land Office very
soon put an end to this system of resurveys, and in a letter
to the surveyor general, which throws no little light upon the
subject, he says:
"The making of resurveys or corrective surveys of townships once proclaimed for sale is always at the hazard of interfering with private rights, and thereby introducing new complications. A resurvey, properly considered, is but a retracing,
with a view to determine and establish lines and boundaries'
of an original survey, . . . but the principle of retracing
has been frequently departed from, where a resurvey (so called)
has been made and new lines and boundaries have often been
introduced, mischievously conflicting with the old, and thereby
affecting the areas of tracts which the United States had previously sold and otherwise disposed of."
It will be perceived that McLeran's survey not only disregards the old original survey making new lines and boundaries, but does so in contravention of the order from the
Land Office that those resurveys should not be extended into
this township.
That the power to make and correct surveys of the public
lands belongs to the political department of the government

CRAGIN v. POWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

and that, whilst the lands are subject to the supervision of the
General Land Office, the decisions of that bureau in all such.
cases, like that of other special tribunals upon matters within
their exclusive jurisdiction, are unassailable by the courts,
except by a direct proceeding; and that the latter have no
concurrent or original power to make similar corrections, if
not an elementary principle of our land law, is settled by such
a mass of decisions of this court that its mere statement is
sufficient. Steel v. Stelting Co., 106 U. S. 447, 454-5, and
cases cited in that opinion; United States v. San fJacinto T?
Co., 10 Sawyer, 639, affirmed in 125 U. S. 273; United States
v. Flint, 4 Sawyer, 42, affirmed in United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Henshaw v. Bissell, 18 Wall. 255; Stanford v. Taylor, 18 How. 409; Haydel v. .ufresne, 17 Hlow.
23; West v. Cochran, 18 How. 403; Jackson v. Clark, 1 Pet.
628; Nfiswanger v. Saunders, 1 Wall. 424; Snyder v. Sickles,
98 U. S. 203; Frasher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102; Gazzam v.
Phillips, 20 How. 372; Pollardv. Dwight, 4 Oranch, 421;
Taylor v. Brown, 5 Crauch, 234; -Mcver,v. Walker, 9 Cranch,
173, 177; Craig v. Radford, 3 Wheat. 594; and Ellicott v.
Pearl,10 Pet. 412.
The reason of this rule, as stated by Justice Catron in the
case of Haydel v. D'u{ resne, is that "great confusion and litigation would ensue if the judicial tribunals, state and federal,
were permitted to interfere and overthrow the public surveys
on no other ground than an opinion that they could have the
work in the field better done and divisions more equitably
made than the department of public lands could do." 7
How. 30.
It is conceded that this power of supervision and correction
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office is subject to
necessary and decided limitations. Nor is it denied that,
when the Land Department has once made and approved a
governmental survey of public lands, (the plats, maps, field
notes and certificates all having been filed in the proper office,)
and has sold or disposed of such lands, the courts have power
to protect the private rights of a party who has purchased, in
good faith, from the government against the interferences or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

appropriations of corrective resurveys made by that department subsequently to such disposition or sale. But there is
nothing in the circumstances of this case which brings it
within any such limitations.
The appellee, Powell, is a surveyor, who, in the year 187'(,
while employed by appellant to make a survey of his plantation, thought he discovered an error in the public lands,
whereby it would appear that his lands were not in fact situated on Bayou Four Points. From his own evidence it is
shown that he induced Wolf to obtain the patent from the
State of Louisiana for the land which he, the said appellee,
purchased from him. When he purchased this land from
Wolf he knew that the tracts to which he was laying claim
had been possessed and cultivated by the appellant for a long
period of years.
An advantage thus obtained, a court of equity will not
readily enforce. As was said in Taylor v. Brown, 5 Cranch,
234, 256:
"The terms of the subsequent location prove that the locator considered himself as comprehending Taylor's previous
entry within his location.

.

.

.

He either did not mean to

acquire the land within Taylor's entry, or he is to be considered as a man watching for the accidental mistakes of others,
and preparing to take advantage of them. What is gained at
law by a person of this description, equity will not take from
him; but it does not follow that equity will aid his views."
-Forthe reasons above stated, the decree of the Circuit Court
is reversed, with directions to di!miss the petition of the
pvaintiffs below at their costs.

