OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

that the record did not show jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court.
It results, that from any view of the case, as presented by
the record, it is one in respect to which the plaintiff could not,
under the act of 1875, invoke the original jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. The judgment must, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with direction for such further proceedings as may be consistent with law, the plaintiff in error
to pay the costs in this court. It will be for the court below
to determine whether the pleadings can be so amended as to
present a case within its jurisdiction. Zing Bridge Co. v.
Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225, 227; .1enard v. Goggan, 121
U. S. 253.
Reversed.
WARE v. ALLEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF MISSISSIPPI.
'o. 99. Argued November 28, December 3, 188S.-Decided December 17, 1883.

On the proofs the court holds that the contract upon which this suit is
brought never went into effect; that the condition upon which it was
to become operative never occurred; and that the case is one of that
class, well recognized in the law, by which an instrument, whether
delivered to a third person as an escrow, or to the obligee in it, is made
to depend, as to its going into operation, upon events to occur or to be
ascertained thereafter.
Parol evidence is admissible, in an action between the parties, to show
that a written instrument, executed and delivered by the party obligor
to the party obligee, absolute on its face, was conditional and was not
intended to take effect until another event should take place.
LN

EQUITY-

appealed.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Complainant

The case is stated in the opinion.

_Mr. Calderon Carlisle,with whom was JALXr. lJfarcellus Green,
for appellant, on the point that parol evidence was not admissible to explain the instrument which formed the subject of
controversy, contended as follows:

WARE v. ALLEN.
Argument for Appellant.

This defence is wholly inadmissible as a matter of law.
The condition stipulated in the written agreement is plain
and unequivocal: " P r ovided we are not defeated in the suit
aainst T. P. Ware." This note was not written by the
complainant, but by defendants' clerk, Reynolds, and was the
result of a discussion between complainant and defendant, T.
H. Allen, in which a different paper had been offered, and
after AV. P. Ware "made objections to same to J. H. Allen,"
and :Reynolds further testifies that it was according to an
arrangement between Ware and T. H. Allen, and that he
"wrote it according to directions of J. H. Allen."
It is therefore conclusively shown, for Reynolds is in no
way contradicted or impeached, that this instrument was
deliberately prepared by the defendant, J. H. Allen, after
nearly a day's conference with Ware, and that the form in
which it now appears is the form which said defendant took
to express his views of the agreement at which the parties
had arrived. Defendant Allen confirms this account of the
preparation of the paper, except that he says it was "hurriedly
written." But it appears from Goldthwaite's evidence that
sufficient deliberation was used in its preparation to keep a
copy of the agreement which was shown him by defendant
Allen. The purpose of this defence by parol proof is to
vary, contradict, qualify and add to the terms of the written
instrument. The condition of the note expressed is defeat
in a suit; the condition alleged and intended to be proved
is the opinion of an attorney as to the safety of a given
transaction; a given mode of procedure. The rule against
the admission of such testimony is too well settled and too
well understood to admit of argument, and, as has been said
in a late decision, "cannot now be considered an open one
in this court." .Mair'tin v. Cole, 104: U. S. 30, 39; Bank of
th1e United States v. Dunn, 6 Pet. 51; Brown v. Wiley, 20
How. 442; Bank of the .Metropolis v. Jones, 8 Pet. 12;
Forsythte v. Eimball, 91 U. S. 291; Bast v. Bank, 101 U. S.
93, 96, 97; Insurance Co. v. Mowry, 96 U. S. 544, 547.
The fact that this was a suit in equity does not vary the
rule; for, as has been said by this court, "in the absence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

fraud, accident or mistake, the rule is the same in equity as
at law." Forsytke v. lZirnall, 91 U. S. 264; Afartin v. Cole,
104: U. S. 34.
X21
r. J. . Allen for appellees.
M . JUsTicE MLLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mlississippi.
The suit was originally commenced in the Chancery Court
of Copiah County, in that State, and its equity jurisdiction
was based upon a statute of Mississippi authorizing attachments to be issued out of the Courts of Chancery. The case
was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by
reason of the diverse citizenship of the parties, and no question was made in that court with regard to the right to proceed in it as a case in equity.
W. P. Ware was the plaintiff below, and from a decree dismissing his bill he has taken this appeal. The action was
brought upon a written instrument, of which the following is
a copy:
"NEw ORLEA. S, 2ov. 7th, 1881.
"Ninety days after date we promise to pay W. P. Ware or
order ten thousand dollars for two notes of T. P. Ware for
five thousand dollars each, dated August 21, '81, one on demand and one at 30 days, provided we are not defeated in the
suit against T. P. Ware; if so, this note is void.
"Yours truly,

"(Signed)

ALLxa,

WEST

& BusH."

The pleadings and the evidence present, without much contradiction, the following leading facts: It appears that T. P.
Ware, a brother of the appellant, W. P. Ware, was conducting a mercantile business at Hazlehurst, in the State of Mississippi, and in the course thereof had extensive dealings with
the firm of Allen, West & Bush, a mercantile house in the city
of New Orleans, by which he became indebted to them at the

WARE v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

date of the above paper in the ,sum of about eighteen thousand
dollars. The business of T. P. Ware was conducted almost
entirely by his brother, the plaintiff in this action, and was'so
embarrassed that the debts could not be paid. It would also
appear from the testimony that W. P. Ware had, a year or
two before, conducted an unsuccessful business at the same
place, in his own name, and, being likely to fail, or having become insolvent, had sold out his store and goods to T. P. Ware,
his brother, but as agent, for the latter ostensibly, continued
to manage or control the business which was thereafter carried
on at the same stand in the name of T. P. Ware.
In this condition of affairs, W. P. Ware made a visit to
Allen, West & Bush, at New Orleans, and had several interviews with them there, during which time the instrument now
sued upon was executed. He stated to that firm, in the course
of those interviews, that his brother was unable to pay his
debts, and that his creditors were becoming impatient; that he
himself held two notes made by his brother, for $5000 each,
amounting to $10,000, and that he desired defendants to
initiate proceedings to attach the goods of T. P. Ware, or to
obtain from him an assignment or mortgage which would
secure their debt as well as his own. For that purpose he
proposed to assign over to them the two notes which he held
against his brother, T. P. Ware, taking their obligation to pay
him the amount. The defendants were disinclined to enter
upon this course of proceeding, stating that they did not
know of any cause for which an attachment could be issued
or which would justify them in seizing the property of their
debtor. The plaintiff replied that he would furnish them
with cause for such attachment if they would enter into the
arrangement which he proposed, that is to say, that he would
show them sufficient reason for the seizing of the property by
an attachment. The defendants again expressed their doubt
about the success of such a course, but said they would like to
consult Judge Harris, who lived in Mississippi, and also their
counsel, J. Mff. Allen. Mr. Ware seemed impatient of this
delay, as there was danger that somebody else might attach
the property and thus defeat both of their claims; and finally,
VOL. c=x=v-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

under his pressure, the notes of T. P. Ware were transferred
to the defendant firm, and they gave the instrument upon
w]iich this suit is brought.
The testimony is ample to show that before the paper was
signed or agreed upon, it was distinctly understood that it was
to be of no effect unless, upon consultation with Judge Harris
or J. 11. Allen, or both of them, the defendants were assured
that the proceeding was lawful and the attachment for the
full amount of both claims could be enforced. It is very true
that the plaintiff does not agree to this, in. the full extent in
which it is thus stated by at least two or three witnesses, but
all the circumstances go to confirm the truth of this statement
of what actually occurred.
As soon as the defendants could do so they asked the opinion of Judge Harris upon the safety of the proposed transaction, and he declined, for reasons growing out of his relationship to Mr. Ware, to give any opinion upon the subject, or to
take any part in the matter. The other counsel for the defendants, Mr. Allen, upon whose approval the transaction was
to be binding, emphatically disapproved of it, and advised the
defendant firm to have nothing to do with it, or with the
notes of W. P. Ware against his brother, in any proceedings
which they might take to collect their own claim.
Accordingly the defendants, after some delay, instituted a
suit in attachment against T. P. Ware and seized the goods at
flazlehurst. The amount then sued for was their own debt
and no more, to wit, a little over eighteen thousand dollars.
This proceeding went on in the usual manner and resulted in
a recovery, by Allen, West & Bush, of their debt, or the most
of it. It also appears that W. P. Ware was promptly notified
of the fact that the firm declined to proceed in the manner he
had suggested.
These transactions took place in the autumn of 1881, shortly
after the execution of the paper sued on here, which matured,
according to its terms, on the 7th day of February, 1882. The
preseDt suit was commenced in February, 1883.
The transaction by which W. P. Ware, who was the acting
manager of th3 affairs of his brother, undertook to secure a

WARE v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

large sum out of the remnants of the second failure of that
concern, whether it was really owned by W. P. or T. P. Ware,
by having that brother give him two notes, one falling due on
demand and the other thirty days after date, amounting to
$10,000, and by inducing Allen, West & Bush, who had a
large bon-fde claim against the failing concern, to take these
two notes and put them in with their own, and by his aid
secure an attachment that would cover all the goods and
secure the payment of the debts due to them both, does not
commend itself to the conscience of a chancellor. It is bitterly assailed by the defendants as an unmitigated fraud on
the part of the plaintiff, with the additional allegation that
the failure of W. . Ware and the sale made to his brother
was a fraud also, of which the present transaction was intended
to be a repetition.
We do not think it necessary to inquire further into the evidence brought to sustain this defence, for we are quite clear
that the testimony does establish the agreement alleged by
the defendants to have been made at the various interviews
between the persons composing the firm of Allen, West &
Bush, or some of them, and the plaintiff, at and before the
time when they delivered to him the instrument sued on and
received from him the two notes made by his brother, T. P.
Ware; that the firm were to have an opportunity to consult
counsel, upon whom they relied, as to the validity of the
transaction; and that if such advice was adverse, then the
instrument gven by them was to be of no effect.
It also sufficiently appears that they were advised, without
hesitation, by the counsel to whom they had reference in those
conversations about the agreement, that the transaction was
not one that would stand the test of a legal investigation.
This is to be considered in connection with the fact that the
firm only brought suit for their own claim, and have since
returned, or offered to return, the notes of W. P. Ware, which
were given him by his brother and delivered to them when
the paper was executed.
We are of opinion that this evidence shows that the contract upon which this suit is brought never went into effect;

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

that the condition upon which it was to become operative
never occurred, and that it is not a question of contradicting
or varying a written instrument by parol testimony, but that
it is one of that class of cases, well recognized in the law, by
which an instrument, whether delivered to a third person as
an escrow or to the obligee in it, is made to depend, as to its
going into operation, upon events to occur or be ascertained
thereafter.
The present case is almost identical in its circumstances
with that of Pym v. Campbell, in the Court of Queen's Bench,
6 Ell. & Bi. 370, 373. The defendants in that case had signed
an agreement for the purchase of an interest in an invention,
which the evidence showed was executed with the understanding that it should not be a bargain until a certain
engineer, who was to be consulted, should approve of the
invention. There was a verdict for the defendants, which
-was sustained, and the following language was used by Earle,
J., on discharging the rule to show cause: "I think that this
rule ought to be discharged. The point made is that this is
a written agreement, absolute on the face of it, and that
elvidence was admitted to show that it was conditional; and
if that had been so, it would have been wrong. But I am
.of opinion that the evidence showed that in fact there was
never any agreement at all.

.

.

If it be proved that

in fact the paper was signed with the express intention that
it should not be an agreement, the other party cannot fix it
as an agreement upon those signing. The distinction in point
of law is that evidence to vary the terms of an agreement
in writing is not admissible, but evidence to show that there
is not an agreement at all is admissible."
In this view the other judges, including Lord Campbell,
Chief Justice, concurred, holding that it having been explained
to the plaintiff that the defendants did not intend the paper
to be an agreement until the engineer had been consulted,
and his approval obtained, and was signed only because it was
not convenient for them to remain, it was therefore no agreement, the plaintiff having assented to this and received the
writing on these terms.

WARR v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

The same principle was announced in the Court of Common
Pleas in Davis v. Jones, 17 C. B. 625, in which the distinction
is clearly stated by Chief Justice Jervis, between evidence
which, although parol, shows the written agreement was
not to take effect until certain other things were done, as
that rent should not commence running till certain repairs
were completed, (although the instrument was signed and
delivered,) and evidence which contradicts or varies the meaning of the instrument itself. This is concurred in by Cresswell and Crowder, JJ.
Later, in 1861, in -Fallisv. Littell, 11 C. B. (N. S.) 369, the
same court laid down the same doctrine in regard to an
assignment of a lease of a farm which had been made by a
tenant to a third party, and the instrument delivered, but
with an agreement that it should not take effect until the
consent of the landlord was procured. The later refused his
consent, and the court held the assignment of the lease,
although executed and deliVered, had never become operative.
This'principle was acted upon, and these authorities cited
and affirmed, in the case of Wilson v. Powers, 131 Mass. 539,
as late as 1881.
The doctrine was asserted in this court as early as 1808, in
the case of Pawling v. United States, 4 Cranci, 219, where
it was held, in a suit upon a collectors bond, that the sureties
'who signed it could prove by parol evidence that they did so
on an express agreement that they were not to be bound until
other persons who were named became bound also by signing
the bond.
Without farther examination of authorities, we are of
opinion that the case before us comes within the principle
asserted by those we have referred to, and the judgment of
the Cicuit Court is, therefore,
Afflrm'ecl.

