OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

ant in error, that, under the decisions of this court in Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and Ratterman v. TUestern
Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411, the Commonwealth was
not entitled to recover for the taxes in question, excepting in
respect to the messages transmitted wholly within the State.
TAe judgment wvilZ therefore be reversed and the cause 'e-

manded for such further proceedings as justice may require.

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK, COM[-

MIISSIONER OF PENSIONS.
UNITED STATES ex 'el. ROSE v. SANJEE.
UNITED STATES ex Pel. MILLER v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COIRT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos.'991, 992, 993.

Argued October 12, 1888. -Decided

October 22, 1888.

The courts will not interfere by mandamus with the executive officers of the
government in the exercise of their ordinary official duties, even where
those duties require an interpretation of the law; no appellate power being given them for that purpose.
When an executive officer of the government refuses to act at all in a case
in which the law requires him to act, or when, by special statute, or
otherwise, a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon him, that is, a service which he is bound to perform without further question, if he refuses mandamus lies to compel him to his duty.
The Commissioner of Pensions by receiving the application of a pensioner
for an increase of his pension under the act of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat.
281, c. 236, and by considering it and the evidence in support of it, and
by deciding adversely to the petitioner, performs the executive act which
the law requires him to perform in such case; and the courts have no
appellate power over him in this respect, and no right to review his
decision.
A decision of the Commissioner of Pensions adverse to the application of a
pensioner for an increase of pension, under a statute granting an increase
in certain cases, being overruled by the Secretary of the Interior on the
ground that the applicant comes under the meaning of the law granting
the increase, and the Commissioner refusing to carry out the decision of

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK..
Opinion of the Court.
his superior, the pensioner is entitled to a rule upon the Commissioner to
show cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue to compel him to
obey the decision of the Secretary of the Interior.
THESE cases came here on writs of error to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to review several judgments of that court refusing orders upon the Commissioner of
Pensions to show cause why in each case a writ of mandamus
should not issue, requiring him to increase the pension of the
petitioner. The cases were argued together, and in each the
facts which makes the case here are stated in the opinion of
the court.

.Mr. T G. Bigelow and iXr. - S. 8. Henhle for plaintiffs in
error.
2[r. A sistant .Attorney General-Mauryas Amicus Curie.
Mnu. JusTicE BrALEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases were argued together, but it will be convenient
to consider them separately, in the order in which they stand
on the docket.

No. 991. Dunlap v. Black.
This was an application by Oscar Dunlap, the relator, to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, for a writ of mandamus to be directed to the respondent, Black, as Commissioner of Pensions, commanding him to re-issue to the relator
his pension certificate for $25 per month from June 6, 1866 ;
$31.25 per month from June 4, 1872; $50 per month from
June 4, 1874; and $72 per month from June 17, 1878, first deducting all sums paid relator under previous pensions.
By the act of larch 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 569, c. 234, § 4, Rev.
Stat. 4698, it was provided that a pension of $31.25 per month
should be allowed to all persons who, while in the military or
naval service, had lost their sight, or both hands or both feet,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or had been permanently and totally disabled, so as to require
the regular aid and attendance of another person; and a pension of $24 per month to those who had lost one hand and one
foot; and $18 per month to those who had lost either one
hand or one foot; and other less pensions for lesser injuries;
any increase of pension to commence from the date of the examining surgeon's certificate. By the aot of June 18, 1874, 18 Stat.
78, c. 298, Sup. Rev. Stat. p. 39, it was provided that, in cases
of blindness or loss of both hands or both feet, or total helplessness, requiring the regular and personal aid of another person,
the pension should be increased from $31.25 to $50 per month.
By the act of February 28, 1877, 19 Stat. 264, c. 73, Sup. Rev.
Stat. 282, it was provided that those who had lost one hand and
one foot should be entitled to a pension for each of such disabilities at the rate of existing laws, - which made the total pension
$36 per month. The relator, in April, 1877, applied for the
benefit of this law, and it was granted to him. By the act of
June 16, 1880, 21 Stat. 281, c. 236, Sup. Rev. Stat. 560, it
was enacted that all those then (at the date of the act) receiving a pension of $50 per month under the act of June 18,
1874, should receive $72 per month from June 17, 1878.
After the last act was passed, the relator applied for the increase allowed by it. The Commissioner of Pensions, being
of opinion that he did not come within its terms, rejected the
application, but granted him a certificate for a pension of $50
per month under the act of 1874, to be received from May 25,
1881, the date of his medical examination. The petition for
mandamus sets out the decision of the Commissioner in full, in
which it is conceded that the relator has become permanently
disabled. The following is an extract from the decision, to
wit:
"Wsa-NGToN, D. C., October 15, 1887.
"In this case the application of the claimant for rerating
and for increase will be allowed at $50 per month from May
25, 1881, the date of the first medical examination under the
claimant's application of June 26, 1880. This rating is allowed
under the act of June 18, 1874, it sufficiently appearing by the

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence in this case that the claimant has lost both a hand
and a foot, and at the same time has been so additionally injured in the head as, from a period prior to the rerating or
increase in this case, to render him totally and permanently
helpless, requiring from thence until now the regular personal
aid and attendance of another person. The reason why the
claimant's rating is not advanced to $72 per month is that he
was not, on the 16th of June, 1880, [the date of the act,] receiving pension at the rate of $50 per month, nor was he entitled to receive a pension of $50 per month at that date, for
the reason that, while the degree of helplessness which has
been shown was that contemplated by the law, the claimant
himself (neither on his own motion nor under the guidance of
those who are legally responsible for his actions in this claim)
had not made application to be rated in pursuance of the act
of June 18, 1874, but on the contrary thereof, had asked to be
rated and had been rated at $36 per month, under the act of
February 28, 1877."
The decision proceeds to discuss further the reasons for the
conclusion to which the Commissioner had come.
The relator, by his counsel, strenuously contends that the
concession made by the Commissioner with regard to the disability of the relator shows that it was his clear duty to have
granted a certificate for the larger pension of $72 per month.
The following passage in the petition for mandamus shows
the position taken by the relator:
"And your relator further says, that the respondent has thus
expressly found the facts in your relator's case to be: (1) that
while your relator was in the military service

.

.

he sus-

tained such wounds and injuries as resulted in the loss of his
right hand and right foot, and at the same time sustaining injury to the head; (2) that your relator was thereby rendered
'totally and permanently helpless, requiring from thence till
now the regular aid and attendance of another person'; and
(3) that your relator applied to the Commissioner of Pensions
on June 26, 1880, for pension on account thereof. And your
relator says that upon this finding of the facts whether he is
entitled to a rerating and an increase of pension from date of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

discharge, so as to give unto him a pension commensurate with
his disabilities so found to exist by the respondent, is a question
of law, and that it does not lie in the discretionary power of
the respondent, as Commissioner of Pensions, to deny or in
anywise abridge his rights with respect thereto."
This extract shows the theory of the petitioner and the doctrine which he invokes in support of his application. We
have been more full in stating the facts of the case in order
that the legal grounds on which that application is based may
clearly appear. The case does not require an extended discussion. The questions of law on which it depends have been
closed by repeated decisions of this court.
The amenability of an executive officer to the writ of mandamus to compel him to perform a duty required of him by
law was discussed by Chief Justice Marshall in his great opinion in the case of .Marbw1
v. £adison, 1 Cranch, 137; and
the radical distinction was there pointed out between acts performed by such officers in the exercise of their executive functions, which the Chief Justice calls political acts, and those of
a mere ministerial character; and the rule was distinctly laid
down that the writ will not be issued in the former class of
cases, but will be issued in the latter. In that case, President
Adams had nominated, and the Senate had confirmed, Marbury as a justice of the peace of the District of Columbia;
and a commission in due form was signed by the President appointing him such justice, and the seal of the United States
was duly affixed thereto by the Secretary of State; but the
commission had not been handed to Marbury when the offices
of the government were transferred to the administration of
President Jefferson. Mr. Madison, the new Secretary of
State, refused to deliver the commission, and a mandamus was
applied for to this court to compel him to do so. The court
held that the appointment had been made and completed, and
that Marbury was entitled to his commission, and that the delivery of it to him was a mere ministerial act, which involved
no further official discretion on the part of the Secretary, and
could be enforced by mandamus. But the court did not issue
the writ, because it would have been an exercise of original

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction which it did not possess. Whilst this opinion will
always be read by the student with interest and profit, it has
not been considered as invested with absolute judicial authority
except on the question of the original jurisdiction of this court.
The decision on this point has made it necessary for parties desiring to compel an officer of the government to perform an act
in which they are interested to resort to the highest court of
the District of Columbia for redress. It has been held in
numerous cases, and was held after special discussion in the
cases of Kendall v. The United States, 12 Pet. 524; and United
States v. Sekiurz, 102 U. S. 378, that the former Circuit Court
of the District, and the present Supreme Court of the District,
respectively, were invested with plenary jurisdiction on the
subject. On this point there is no further question.
The two leading cases which authoritatively show when the
Supreme Court of the District may, and when it may not,
grant a mandamus against an executive officer, are the above
cited cases of Kendall v. United States on the Relation of Stokes,
12 Pet. 524, and Decatur v. Paulding,14 Pet. 497. The subsequent cases have followed the principles laid down in these,
and do little more than illustrate and apply them. In the
former case the mandamus was granted, and the decision was
affirmed by this court. The case was shortly this: Stockton
& Stokes, as contractors for carrying the mails, had certain
claims against the government for extra services, which they
insisted should be credited in their accounts, and a controversy
arose between them and the Post Office Department on the
subject. Congress passed an act for their relief, by which the
Solicitor of the Treasury was authorized and directed to settle
and adjust their claims, and make them such allowances as
upon a full examination of all the evidence might seem to be
equitable and right; and the 'Postmaster General was directed
to credit them with whatever sums the Solicitor should decide
to be due them. The Solicitor, after due investigation, made
his report, and stated the sums due to Stockton & Stokes on
the claims made by them; but the Postmaster General, Mr.
Kendall, refused to give them credit as directed by the law.
This the court held he could be compelled to do by manda-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ins, because it was simply a ministerial duty to be performed,
and not an official act requiring any exercise of judgment or
discretion. This court, through Mr. Justice Thompson, said:
"The act required by the "lawto be done by the Postmaster
General is simply to credit the relators with the full amount
of the award of the Solicitor. This is a precise, definite act,
purely ministerial; and about which the Postmaster General
had no discretion whatever. The law upon its face shows the
existence of accounts between the relators and the Post Office
Department. No money was required to be paid; and none
could be drawn from the Treasury without further legislative
provision, if this credit should overbalance the debit standing
against the relators. But this was a matter with which the
Postmaster General had no concern. He was not called upon
to furnish the means of paying such balance, if any should be
found. He was simply required to give the credit. This was
not an official act in any other sense than being a transaction
in the department where the books and accounts were kept;
and was an official act in the same sense that an entry in the
minutes of a court, pursuant to an order of the court, is an
official act. There is no room for the exercise of any discretion, official or otherwise; all that is shut out by the direct
and positive command of the law, and the act required to be
done is, in every just sense, a mere ministerial act."
In the other case, -Decaturv. Paulding,the mandamus was
refused by the Circuit Court, and that decision was also
affirmed by this court. The case was this: On the 3d of
March, 1837, Congress passed an act giving to the widow of
any officer who had died in the naval service a pension equal
to half of his monthly pay from the time of his death until
her death or marriage. On the same day Congress passed a
resolution granting a pension to Mrs. Decatur, widow of
Stephen Decatur, for five years, commencing June 30, 1834,
and the arrearages of the half pay of a post captain from
Commodore Decatur's death to the 30th of June, 1834. Mrs.
Decatur applied for and received her pension under the general
law, with a reservation of her rights under the resolution,
claiming the pension granted by that also. The Secretary of

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK.

.47

Opinion of the Court.

the Navy, acting under the opinion of the Attorney General,
decided that she could not have both. Thereupon she applied
for a mandamus to compel the Secretary to comply with the
resolution in her favor. Chief Justice Taney delivered the
opinion of the court, and laid down the law in terms that have
never been departed from. We can only quote a single pa sage from this opinion. The Chief Justice says: "The duty
required by the resolution was to be performed by him [the
Secretary of the Navy] as the head of oiie of the executive
departments of the government, in the ordinary discharge of
his official duties. In general, such duties, whether imposed
by act of Congress or by resolution, are not mere ministerial
duties. The head of an executive department of the government, in the administration of the various and important concerns of his office, is continually required to exercise judgment
and discretion. He must exercise his judgment in expounding
the laws and resolutions of Congress, under which he is from
time to time required to act. If he doubts, he has a right to
call on the Attorney General to assist him with his counsel;
and it would be difficult to imagine why a legal adviser was
provided by law for the heads of the departments, as well as
for the President, unless their duties were regarded as executive, in which judgment and discretion were to be exercised.
"If a suit should come before this court, which involved the
construction of any of these laws, the court certainly would
not be bound to adopt the construction given by the head of
a department. And if they supposed his decision to be wrong,
they would, of course, so pronounce their judgment. But
their judgment upon the construction of a law must be given
in a case in which they have jurisdiction, and in which it is
their duty to interpret the act of Congress, in order to ascertain the rights of the parties in the cause before them. The
court could not entertain an appeal from the decision of one
of the secretaries, nor revise his judgment in any case where
the law authorized him to exercise discretion or judgment.
Nor can it by mandamus act directly upon the officer, and
guide and control his judgment or discretion in the matters
committed to his care, in the ordinary discharge of his official

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

duties. The case before us illustrates these principles and
shows the difference between executive and ministerial acts."
The Chief Justice then goes on to show that the decision of
the Secretary of the Navy in that case was entirely executive
and official in its character, and that, in this respect, the case
differed entirely from that of lfenda~l v. Stokes.
The principle of law deducible from these two cases is not
difficult to enounce. The court will not interfere by mandamus with the executive officers of the government in the exercise of their ordinary official duties, even where those duties
require an interpretation of the law, the court having no appellate power for that purpose; but when they refuse to act
in a case at all, or when, by special statute, or otherwise, a
mere ministerial duty is impsed upon them, that is, a service
which they are bound to perform without further question,
then, if they refuse, a mandamus may be issued to compel
them.
Judged by this rule the present case presents no difficulty.
The Commissioner of Pensions did not refuse to act or decide.
He did act and decide. He adopted an interpretation of the
law adverse to the relator, and his decision was confirmed by
the Secretary of the-Interior, as evidenced by his signature of
the certificate. Whether if the law were properly before us
for consideration, we should be of the same opinion, or of a
different opinion, is of no consequence in the decision of this
case. We have no appellate power over the Commissioner,
and no right to review his decision. That decision and his
action taken thereon were made and done in the exercise of
his official functions. They were by no means merely ministerial acts.
The decisions of this court, which have been rendered since
the cases referred to, corroborate and confirm all that has been
said. The following are the most important, to -wit: Brashear v. .Mason,6 How. 92; United States ex rel. Goodrich v.
Grthrie, 17 How. 284; Cornmissioner of Patentsv. Titeley,
4 Wall. 522; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall:50; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; United States ex rel. .cBride v. Schurz, 102
U. S. 378; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50.

UNITED STATES ex rel. DUNLAP v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

In the two last cases cited, the mandamus was granted; and
they were cases in which it was held that a mere ministerial
duty was to be performed by the officer. In United States ex
rel. XfeB2i4le v. Schurz, the question related to a patent for land
claimed by a preemptor. All the proceedings had been gone
through, the right of the applicant had been affirmed, the
patent had been made out in the Land Office, signed by the
President, sealed with the Land Office seal, countersigned by
the recorder of the Land Office, recorded in the proper book,
and transmitted to the local land officers for delivery; but
delivery was refused because instructions had been received
from the Commissioner to return the patent. The plea was,
that it had been discovered that the lands belonged to a town
site. The court held that this was an insufficient plea; that
the title had passed to the applicant, and he was entitled to
his patent, subject to any equity which other parties might
have to the land, or to a proceeding for setting the patent
aside; and that the duty of the Commissioner, or Secretary of
the Interior, had become a mere ministerial duty to deliver.
the instrument -as was held in Xfarb ry v. ffadison, in relation to the commission of Marbury as justice of the peace..
Of course, this case is entirely different from the case nowunder consideration.

The case of _Butterworth v. Hoe was very similar in principle to that of United States v. Surz. The Commissioner of
Patents had decided in favor of the right of one Gill, an appli-

cant for a patent in a case of interference, and adjudged that
a patent should issue to his assigns accordingly.

An appeal

was taken to the Secretary of the Interior, who reversed the
decision of the Commissioner. The latter thereupon, and forthat reason, refused to issue a patent. It was a question
whether an appeal lay to the Secretary of the Interior, and,
this court held that it did not, and that he had no jurisdictionin the matter. The court, therefore, held that the. patent
ought to be issued in accordance with the decision of the Commissioner, and that the mere issue of the patent was a ministerial matter for which a mandamus would lie. This case,
like that of United States v. Sclhurz, is unlike the present.
VOL. CXXVI--4

OCTOBER TERM. 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

All deliberation bad ceased; the right of Gill, the applicant,
was adjudged; there was nothing to be done but to deliver to
the party the documentary evidence of his title. That was a
mere ministerial matter.
We think that the mandamus was properly refused, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the District is
A flmned.

NbTo. 992, Rose v. Black.
This case is similar in all essential respects to the preceding,
and the decision must be the same.
Judgment afirmed.

:No. 993, 3filler v. Black.
This case differs materially from numbers 991 and 992.
Charles R. IMiller, the relator, having made an unsuccessful
application to the Commissioner of Pensions for an increase of
his pension, finally appealed to the Secretary of the Interior,
and in his petition for mandamus says as follows, to wit:
"That the Secretary, upon a personal, careful inspection of
the record and all the evidence filed therein in his case, and on
due consideration thereof, made and rendered the following
official decision:
'DEPTMaz&NT

OF THE IEERIOr,

'Washington, D. C., February 12, 1885.
'The Commissioner of Pensions:
'Sm: Herewith are returned the papers in the pension
claim, Certificate No. 55,356, of Charles R. Miller.
'It appears from the papers that Mr. Miller's claim was before this department on the 6th instant, and it was held that the
pensioner is greatly disabled, and it is evident from the papers
in his case that he is utterly unable to do any manual labor,

UNITED STATES ex rel. MILLER v. BLACK.
Opinion of the Court.

and he is therefore entitled to $30 per month under the act of
M:arch 3, 1883, which has been allowed him by your office.
' Since the departmental decision above referred to, the papers
in the claim have been carefully reconsidered by the Department, and a personal examination of the pensioner made, and
it satisfactorily appears that he is unable to put on his shoe
and stocking on the foot of his injured leg, for the reason that
the nearest point that can be reached by hand from foot is 23
inches, and for the further reason that from "necrosis of the
lower vertebrae of spine, producing anchylosis of the spinal
column and destruction of some of the spinal nerves" he is
unable to bend his back.
'After a careful review of all the facts in this case, the Department is constrained to think that the pensioner comes
under the meaning of the laws granting pensions to those persons who require aid and attendance. Thp decision of the 6th
instant is therefore overruled.
'Very respectfully,
'H. Al. TELLER, Secretary.'

"And your orator avers that the said official decision of the
Secretary of the Interior, so made as aforesaid, was a final
adjudication of his claim in his favor, and conclusively establishes his right under th6 laws to be rerated at $25 per month
from June 6, 1866; $31.25 per month from June 4, 1872;
$50 per month from June 4, 1874; and $72 per month from
June 17, 1878, and to be paid the difference monthly between
these sums and what has been allowed him; and all that remained for the Commissioner of Pensions to do in the premises
was the simple ministerial duty of accordingly carrying the said
final official decision of the Secretary into execution."
The petition goes on to state that the former Commissioner
of Pensions refused to carry out the Secretary's decision to its
full extent, and that the present Commissioner, the respondent,
still refuses. If, as the petition suggests, the Commissioner of
Pensions refuses to carry out the decision- of his superior officer, there would seem to be ,',indt facie ground for at least
calling upon him to show cause why a mandamus should not

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

issue. This was all that the petitioner asked, and this the
court refused. As a general rule, when a superior tribunal has
rendered a decision binding on an inferior, it becomes the
ministerial duty of the latter to obey it and carry it out. So
far as respects the matter decided, there is no discretion or exercise of judgment left. This is the constant course in courts
of justice. The appellate court will not hesitate to issue a
mandamus to compel obedience to its decisions.
The appellate tribunal in the present case is the Secretary
of the Interior, who has no power to enforce his decisions by
mandamus, or any process of like nature; and therefore a resort to a judicial tribunal would seem to be necessary, in order
to afford a remedy to the party injured by the refusal of the
Commissioner to carry out his decision. But it is suggested
that removal of the contumacious subordinate from office, or a
civil suit brought against him for damages, would be effectual
remedies. We do not concur in this view. A suit for damages, if it could be maintained, would be an uncertain, tedious,
and ineffective remedy, attended with many contingencies, and
burdened with onerous expenses. Removal from office would
be still more unsatisfactory. It would depend on the arbitrary discretion of the President, or other appointing power,
and is not such a remedy as a citizen of the United States is
entitled to demand. We think that the case suggested by the
petition is one in which it would be proper for the court to
interfere by mandamus. Whether it will turn out to be such
when all the circumstances are known, can be ascertained by a
rule to show cause; and such a rule, we think, ought to have
been granted. The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the caue ?ermandedwit instructirnsto grant
a rule to show cause as a2pliedfor by the petitioner.
Judgnwnts will be entered separately in the several cases

