CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

KIDD v. PEARSON.
ERROR TO THE
No. 779.

SUPRE31E

COURT OF THE

Argued and submitted April 4, 188.-

STATE OF IOWA.

Decided October 22, 1888.

Following .1ugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Held, that a State has the right
to prohibit or restrict the manufacture of intoxicating liquors within its.
limits; to prohibit all sale and traffic in them in the State; to inflict penalties for such manufacture and sale; and to provide regulations for the
abatement, as a common nuisance, of the property used for such forbidden purposes; and that such legislation does not abridge the liberties orimmunities of citizens of tho United States, nor deprive any person of'
property without due process of law, nor contravene the provisions of'
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
A statute of a State which provides (1) that foreign intoxicating liquors,
may be imported into the State, and there kept for sale by the importer,
in the original packages, or for transportation in such packages and sale.
beyond the limits of the State; and (2) that intoxicating liquors may be,
mannfactured and sold within the State for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, and sacramental purposes, but for no other, not even for the purpose of transportation beyond the limits of the State -does not conflict
with Section 8, Article 1, of the Constitution of the United States byundertaking to regulate commerce among the States.
The right of a State to enact a statute prohibiting the manufacture of in-toxicating liquors within its limits, is not affected by the fact that themanufacturer of such spirits intends to export them when manufactured.
The police power of a State is as broad and plenary as the taxing power(as defined in Coc v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517), and property within the Stateis subject to the operation of the former, so long as it is within the- regulating restrictions of the latter.
VOL. cxii-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

TRE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa, allowed by the Chief Justice thereof, upon the ground
that the judgment in the case affirmed the validity of a statute
of that State, which the plaintiff in error claimed to be in conflict with the Federal Constitution. The case arose upon a
petition in equity, filed December 24, 1885, in the Circuit
Court of Polk County, Iowa., by defendants in error, I. E.
Pearson and S. J. Loughran against the plaintiff in error,
J. S. Kidd, praying that a certain distillery erected and used
by said Kidd for the unlawful manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors be abated as a nuisance; and that the said Kidd
be perpetually enjoined from the manufacture therein of all
intoxicating liquors. The provisions of the law under which
these proceedings were instituted are found in Chapter 6, Title
11, of the Code of Iowa, amended by Chapter 143 of the acts
of the General Assembly in 1884. The sections necessary to
be quoted for the purposes of this decision are as follows:
Section 1523 provides: " No person shall manufacture or
sell by himself, his clerk, steward, or agent, directly or indirectly, any intoxicating liquors, except as hereinafter provided.
And the keeping of intoxicating liquors, with the intent on the
part of the owner thereof, or any person acting under his authority or by his permission, to sell the same within this State
contrary to the provisioris of this chapter, is hereby prohibited,
and the intoxicating liquor so kept, together with the vessels
in which it is contained, is declared a nuisance, and shall be
forfeited and dealt with as hereinafter provided."
Section 1524 provides: " Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to forbid the sale by the importer thereof of foreign
intoxicating liquor imported under the authority of the laws
of the United States regarding the importation of such liquors
and in accordance with such laws: Provided, That the said
liquor at the time of said sale by said importer remains in the
original casks or packages in which it was by him imported,
*and in quantities not less than the quantities in which the laws
of the United States require such liquors to be imported, and is

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Statement of the Case.

sold by him in said original casks or packages and in said quantities only; and nothing contained in this law shall prevent any
persons from manufacturing in this State liquors for the purpose of being sold, according to the provisions of this chapter,
to be used for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, or sacramental
purposes."
Section 1525 prescribes a penalty for a violation of the law
by manufacturers, as follows: "Every person who shall manufacture any intoxicating liquors as in this chapter prdhibited,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon his first
conviction for said offence shall pay a fine of two hundred
dollars and costs of prosecution, or be imprisoned in the county
jail not to exceed six months; and on his second and every subsequent conviction for said offence he shall pay a fine of not
less than five hundred dollars, nor more than one thousand
dollars, and costs of prosecution, and be imprisoned in the
county jail one year."
Section 1526 defines who may be permitted to manufacture
under the law, and- for what purpose the manufacture may be
carried on, as follows: "Any citizen of the State, except hotel
keepers, keepers of saloons, eating houses, grocery keepers, and
confectioners, is hereby permitted, within the county of his
residence, to manufacture or buy and sell intoxicating liquors
for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, and sacramental purposes
only, provided he shall first obtain permission from the board
of supervisors of the county in which such business is conducted, as follows."
Sections 1527 and 1529 provide for the manner of obtaining
the permit and § 1530 sets out the conditions under which it
may be granted. It is as follows: "At such final hearing, any
resident of the county may appear and show cause why such
permit should not be granted; and the same shall be refused,
unless the board shall be fully satisfied that the requirements
of the law have, in all respects, been fully complied with, that
the applicant is a person of good moral character, and that,
taking into consideration the wants of the locality, and the
number of permits already granted, such permit would be necessary and proper for the accommodation of the neighborhood."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The manufacturer, like the seller, is required to make
monthly reports to the county auditor, the evident purpose of
the requirement being to show whether or not the holder of a
permit was manufacturing or selling in compliance with the
law.
Section 1543 provides for proceedings in equity to abate and
enjoin unlawful manufacture.
The averments of the petition are, in substance, that the distillery described therein was erected by said J. S. Kidd for the
manufacture of intoxicating liquors, contrary to the statute of
Iowa; that said Kidd had been, ever since the 4th of July,
1884, ftnd is still, engaged in the manufacture of intoxicating
liquors, upon the premises aforesaid, for other than mechanical, medicinal, culinary, and sacramental purposes; with the
concluding averment "that the defendant manufactures, keeps
for sale, and sells within this State, and at the place aforesaid,
intoxicating liquors, to be taken out of that State and there
used as a beverage, and for other purposes than for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, and sacramental- purposes, contrary
to the statute of Iowa."
Kidd in his answer specifically pleaded that he is now, and
has been ever since the 4th of July, 1884, authorized by the
board of supervisors to manufacture and sell intoxicating
liquors, except as prohibited by law, and that in the manufacture and sale of liquors, this defendant has at all times complied with the requirements of the law in that behalf. Upon
the trial it was proved by undisputed evidence that Kidd held
each year, from July 4th, 1884, a permit regularly issued from
the board of supervisors of Polk County, covering the period
of the alleged violations of law, authorizing him to manufacture and sell intoxicating liquors for mechanical, medicinal,
culinary, and sacramental purposes; that his monthly reports,
made on oath, in compliance 'with the requirements of the
law, show that there were no sales for mechanical, medicinal,
culinary, and sacramental, or any other purpose, in the State
of Iowa; and that all the manufactured liquors were for
exportation and were sold outside of the State of Iowa. A
decree was rendered against Kidd, ordering that the said dis-

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tillery be abated as a nuisance, according to the prayer of the
petitioner, and enjoining said Kidd from the manufacture
therein of any and all intoxicating liquors. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of Iowa this decree was affirmed by that court.
Hence this writ of error.
3-r. F. IF. Lehmann for plaintiff in error. 21r. Benjamnb
Raeris Brewster was with him on the brief.
Alcohol is universally admitted to be a useful and indispensable commodity. For some purpose and to some exteift, as a
prime or subordinate element, it is used in nearly every art
and manufacture. Next to water it is the most general solvent. In the manufacture of chemicals and drugs it is absolutely indispensable. The whole art of pharmacy, it may be
said, is based upon the use of alcohol as a solvent.
It enters largely into the composition of paints, varnishes,
perfumes, fine soaps, stearine candles, and many other articles
of daily use. It is used in all dyeing and lacquering establishments, as a preservative in all museums, and as a fuel and
cleansing material by jewellers, dentists, photographers and
many other workers in mechanical arts. Its many beneficial
uses in the sick room are well known and need not be recited.
The amount of alcohol annually required in this country for
these and other like legitimate uses is variously estimated by
good authorities at from nine to twenty millions of gallons.
The laws of every State in the Union and of every civilized
country recognize the beneficial properties of alcohol, and all
legislation touching the subject, whether prohibitory or restrictive merely, deals only with intoxicating liquors designed for
use as a beverage.
The statute of Iowa which is in question makes no distinction between alcohol and intoxicating drinks.
The question presented by this case is, can a State prohibit
traffic with other States and foreign countries in an article
which it recognizes to be a useful commodity and the subject
of lawful traffic among its own people'?
It is not in the power of a State to prohibit exportation of
any commodity whatever. Section 8, of Art. 1, of the Fed-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

eral Constitution, provides: "The Congress shall have power
to regulat commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States."
As to certain subjects which are local in their nature, and
affect commerce but incidentally, the State may make proper
regulations, until Congress acts with reference to them.
Where, however, the subject is national in its character, or of
such nature as to admit of uniformity of regulation, the power
of Congress is exclusive of all state authority. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.275 ; County of .Mobilev. irnball,102 U. S.691.
That portion of commerce with foreign countries and between the States which consists in the transportation and exchange of commodities is of national importance, and admits
and requires uniformity of regulation. Welton v. Xssouri,
supra; County of Mobile v. Ximball, supra; Brown v. .Houston, 114: U. S. 622.
The non-exercise of its power by Congress is tantamount to
a declaration that such commerce shall be free. Wabash, &c.
Railway Co. v. illinois, 118 U. S. 557. We have only to
consider, then, whether commerce in alcohol is included within the term "commerce" as used in the Constitution.
In the Passenger Cases, 7 How. at page 416, it is said:
"Commerce consists in selling the superfluity; in purchasing
articles of necessity, as well productions as manufactures; in
buying from one nation and selling to another, or in transporting the merchandise from the seller to the buyer to gain
the freight."
In Welton v. lissouri,supra, it is said that "the main object of that (inter-state) commerce is the sale and exchange of
commodities."
No exceptions are admitted to this general character of commerce, as to the articles which may enter into it. Every
species of property, everything which has beneficial uses and
exchangeable value, is included. That alcohol is property,
that it has value in use and exchange, is everywhere admitted.
In the License Cases, 5 How. 501, all the judges concurred
in treating alcohol as property and commerce in it, as much
as commerce in any other commodity, when carried on among

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the States or with foreign countries, as within the scope of
the constitutional provision. Chief Justice Taney and those
concurring with him did indeed hold that the laws involved
regulated commerce as between the States, and that regulations of that character might be made by the States so long as
Congress failed to act. This, in view of later decisions, was
not tenable ground. The other judges sustained the laws as
to liquors brought from other States upon the same ground
as that upon which they sustained the laws as to imported
liquors, viz.: That they were domestic regulations purely, and
affected only domestic commerce.
That -intoxicating liquors are property and traffic in them as
much as in any other species of property within the meaning
of the term "commerce" in the Federal Constitution is plainly
implied in Beer Co. v. Mlassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25. The Supreme Court of Iowa itself, in deciding a case arising under
the very law in question, laid down the same doctrine. .ony
v. A.ensom, 25 Iowa, 383.
Commerce in alcohol being within the constitutional provision, it remains to determine how far that provision is operative as a limitation upon the power of the States.
The License Cases settled that a State could not, in virtue
of its police power, prohibit importation of liquors from foreign
lands, and the several States have since that time framed their
enactments in this view. Imported liquors are not, as a consequence, exempted from all police supervision, but the power
of Congress and the power of the States are each given effect
within their respective spheres. So long as the liquors retain
their character as imports they are under the authority of Congress; when they lose that character and become mingled with
the general property of the State they become subject to its
police restrictions.
Imports and exports stand upon the same footing. No warrant for any distinction between them can be found in either
the letter or the reason of the constitutional provision.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, Ch. J. Marshall said:
"It has, we believe, been universally admitted that these
words (commerce with foreign nations, etc.) comprehend every

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

species of commercial intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations. No sort of trade can be carried on between this country and any other, to which this power does.
not extend. It has been truly said that commerce, as the
word is used in the Constitution, is a unit, every part of which
is indicated by the term," pp. 193-4.
Yet the Iowa statute absolutely prohibits the exportation
of the product of one of its lawful manufactures, or at least
attempts to restrict its sale abroad by a limitation of the uses
for which it may be there sold.
Whatever doubt may have once existed on the subject, it is
now a settled doctrine that as to the paramount authority of
Congress commerce among the several States stands upon the
same footing as commerce with foreign nations.
The States may not in the exercise of their many undoubted
powers to tax, to pass quarantine and inspection laws, and
other needful measures of internal police, trench upon this
authority. There is involved in this no impairment of the
power of the States over purely domestic concerns, but there
is involved and required by it a limitation of state interference
to purely domestic concerns
A consideration of some of the leading cases in which there
was either a real or supposed conflict of state and national
authority will serve to point out the rightful limits of each.
[Counsel then referred (with comments and quotations) to Gibhons v. Ogden, supra ; -dlmy v. California,24 How. 169 ; State
Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284, as affected by Philadelphia,&c.Steamshio
Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326; Robbins v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; -Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S.
485; WesterA Union Tel. Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347;
Tiernan v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; Tralling v. Michigan, 116
U. S. 446; Railroad Co. v. flusen, 95 U. S. 465; City of 2ew
York v. .Miln, 11 Pet. 102; Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S.
275; People v. Comapagnie Gjn~rale,107 U. S.59.]
None of these cases were overruled by .Jfuglehr v. Kansas
123 U. S. 623. The commercial power of Congress was not
involved in them. The point ruled was simply that the Four-

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

teenth Article of Amendment did not operate to impair the
police power of the States. The doctrine of the HVusen
Case, that the States under cover of exerting their police
powers, may not substantially prohibit or burden inter-state
or foreign commerce, was not denied.
Under the laws of Iowa, intoxicating liquors are not per se
a nuisance. The mere possession of them is not a crime.
To make the possession criminal, it is essential that it be with
intent to sell them within the State.
Alcohol not being Per se a nuisance, but recognized as property and as the subject of lawful commerce by the laws of the
United States and of every State in the Union, to prohibit its
transportation from one State, by one who has the legal right
there to own and keep it, to another State, with intent there
to sell it to a person and for a purpose authorized by the laws
of that State, is to prohibit, to that extent, commerce among
the States. It is prohibiting "the transmission of subjects of
trade from the State to the buyer, or from the place of production to the market," which this court said, in the case of the
State Freight Tax, it was absurd to suppose, was not contemplated by the Constitution, "for without that there could be
no consummated trade either with foreign nations or among
the States."
The peculiar quality of the commodity does not affect the
constitutional principles involved. All commodities are subject to a proper exercise of the police power of the States, and
all commodities in their relation to inter-state and foreign commerce are subject to the paramount and exclusive authority
of Congress. The shipment of liquors from without the State
to within it, was, in Walling v. -Michigan,held to be a matter
of commerce among the States, and we take it for granted
that a shipment from within to without the State is no less so.
The rule of law applicable does not depend upon the direction
of the shipment, and change as that changes. It will be said,
however, that the question in this case is not whether the
alcohol after it was manufactured could be shipped from the
State, but whether it could be manufactured for the purpose
of so shipping it. The difference suggested is one of form,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and not of substance. The manufacture of alcohol was not
.perse illegal. It was expressly authorized by the law. Now,
unless the shipment was itself illegal, how could it make the
manufacture so? - Two acts, each lawful in itself, are not
made unlawful when brought into conjunction, simply because
of that conjunction. The act of transporting the alcohol from
the State in the course of lawful commerce with other States
not being a crime, the intent to perform that act was not a
criminal intent, no matter when formed, whether before or
after the alcohol was manufactured. If in the operation of
this distillery there was a crime committed, it was committed
by doing a lawful act, by lawful means, for lawful purposes.
Such a conclusion discredits the premises from which it is derived. We confidently submit that Mr. Kidd could not, by
force of the Iowa statute, be enjoined from the further pursuit of his business unless he had, either in the manufacture or
in the sale of his product, done something which the State
had prohibited and had authority to prohibit. It had not
prohibited the manufacture, and it had no authority to prohibit the foreign sales.
We concede what the court claims for the power of the State
to suppress conspiracies, no matter against whom directed. We
concede the power to suppress the publication of obscene literature, no matter where it is to be circulated. We concede
the power to prohibit the manufacture of unwholesome foods,
no matter upon whom they are to be imposed. These things
are inherently and absolutely wrong. The common sense of
mankind condemns them. Nothing can justify a toleration
of them to any extent or for any purpose. But the power of
a State to punish acts clearly criminal in themselves, when
committed within its jurisdiction, does not include the power
to prescribe the mode in which a useful commodity, the subject of lawful commerce, shall be dealt with in another State
in relation to the domestic concerns of that State. The fault
of the court's argument, its fundamental weakness, is that it
does not distinguish between crime and commerce.
We admit the authority of the- State of Iowa to punish
crimes committed within its own borders, and we deny only

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

what only is here involved, its authority to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States. The
principles contended for by us have been recognized and
upheld in a number of cases in Iowa arising under this very law.
3Tiles v. Fries, 35 Iowa, 41; Becker v. Betten, 39 Iowa, 668.
It is claimed, however, that the State may absolutely prohibit the traffic in intoxicating liquors, and that it may, therefore, do anything which is less than such absolute prohibition.
That is to say, the State may prohibit all commerce in alcohol,
domestic and external; it may, therefore, prohibit any part of
such commerce, either the domestic or the external.
We have no occasion to consider the claim of power to
impose an absolute prohibition, because the consequence contended for by no means follow. There is no such thing as
arbitrary power in our system of government. Every function
possessed by the State was conferred by the people, to be
exercised in their interest and for their welfare, and it is limited
in its scope -bythe necessity for its exercise.
An absolute prohibition of the manufacture and sale of alcohol involves a finding by the legislature that alcohol is wholly
bad, and incapable of any good uses whatsoever. Such a prohibition being imposed, and in such a view, it may be that no
exception could be claimed against it. That question is not
in the case, and so we need not discuss it.
A prohibition upon the manufacture and sale of alcohol only
for certain uses, involves a legislative finding that so far as not
prohibited alcohol is beneficial, and hurtful alone when applied
to the prohibited uses. This legislative finding is conclusive
until reversed, and is binding upon the legislature itself; and it
cannot by sheer force of authority do aught that is inconsistent therewith. This finding indicates the limits of the legislative power over alcohol, because it indicates the extent to
which alcohol is hurtful to the State. To prohibit its manufacture, sale, or use beyond the requirements of the public welfare, is arbitrary and absurd, quite as much so as would be a
like prohibition against the growing of corn or other staple
production of the State. What we are contending for was the
very point of the decision in Preston v. Drew, 33 Maine, 558;
S. C. 51 Am. Dec. 639.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

We again invite comparison with the limitations upon the
taxing power of the States. These were carefully considered
in 3feOCulloch v. .Maryland,4 Wheat. 316. Chief Justice Marshall there said:
"It is admitted that the power of taxing the people and
their property is essential to the very existence of government,
and may be legitimately exercised on the objects to which it is
applicable, to the utmost extent to which government may
choose to carry it.
"The people of a State, therefore, give to their government
a right of taxing themselves and their property, and as the exigencies of government cannot be limited, they prescribe no
limits to the exercise of this right.
"It may be objected to this definition, that the power of taxation is not confined to the people and property of a State. It
may be exercised upon every object brought within its jurisdiction. This is true. But to what source do we trace this right?
It is obvious that it is an incident of sovereignty, and is co-extensive with that to which it is an incident." See also Crawdali v. NT evadax, 6 Wall. 35.
No more comprehensive scope than this has ever been
assigned to the police power. The power to tax implies the
power to destroy, as does the power to regulate the power to
prohibit; but the State cannot be permitted to exercise these
powers, or either of them, to the destruction of, or interference
with interests confided exclusively to the care of the national
authority. See also loan .Assoeiation v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655; Eanoas v. Saunders, 19 Kansas, 127.
It is claimed that even if alcohol may, after it is manufactured, be freely exported, nevertheless the manufacture for
such exportation may be prohibited, because that is a purely
domestic process, begun and completed within the State, and
therefore subject to its authority.
That manufactures mayper se be the subject of regulation,
nobody denies. But the reason for such regulation wherever
it has been attempted is obvious. There may be, incident to
the process, noxious smells, and the generation of poisonous
gases, as in the case of rendering and fertilizing establishments.

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

There may be danger of fire or explosion, as in the manufacture of burning fluids or explosive powders. In all these cases
the provisions of the law are adapted to reducing the peculiar
perils of the trade to a minimum.
The state court say that the evils flowing from intoxicating
liquor arise wholly from its use as a beverage. As the law
attempts not directly to inhibit that use, but indirectly by inhibiting the sale for such use, we may say that it is the sale
alone which the law has in view. From that all the apprehended evils flow, and the sole reason for imposing any restrictions upon the manufacture is, that all manufacture is for purpose of sale, and carries with it the right of sale, and therefore
a limitation is imposed upon it correspondent with that upon
the sale. The commerce and the manufacture stand upon the
same footing. Wherever commerce is lawful, manufacture to
supply that commerce is also lawful.
From all the legislation of all the States, and from all the
adjudication upon such legislation by the courts, we challenge
the citation of another instance wherein the limitations upon
the production of an article which might be hurtful in use,
were broader than the limitations on the sale.
Under whatever class of regulations the manufacture may
fall, conforming to them, it may be carried on to whatever
extent the requirements of lawful commerce may justify, and
any regulation in denial or limitation of that right, is a regulation, not of manufacture, but of commerce,, and must be considered in that view.
Granting therefore that the State did intend a limitation
upon the manufacture of alcohol, considered merely as an
industrial process, it would have no authority to effect that
limitation by a restriction to manufacture for domestic uses.
The object of all labor is to supply the wants of the laborer.
In civilized society, however, labor alone cannot accomplish
this object. There must be exchange of the products of labor.
Commerce is industry. It is in every just sense a part of the
purpose and process of production. The commodity must not
only be made, but it must be brought to the consumer, and the
cost of this is added to the price paid by the consumer for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

commodity.

So, too, industry, save that limited amount of

labor which in the very performance gratifies an ultimate want,
is commerce. It is the prospect of exchange that incites to
labor and determines its direction and extent. Commerce and
industry are thus essential parts of one great plan. The ligament that binds them together is vital to each. What affects
the one, affects the other. Nevertheless, regulations that go
to the mere modes or processes of industry have but an incidental effect upon commerce, and the power to make them, in
so many cases vitally essential to the welfare of their people,
was not withdrawn from the States. But regulations that in
terms limit the purposes for which and the markets in which
the products of labor may be offered in exchange are commercial regulations, and it is a mere quibble to speak of them
as anything else. Railroad 6o. v. Iiusen., suyra; Pennsyl'vania Steamskip oCo. v. Pennsylvania, supra; Almy v. Californi, supra; 1oocdfuf v. Parham,8 Wall. 123; Brow2n v.
.Maryland,12 Wheat. 419; Melton v. 3fissouri, supra; Robbins v. &STelly County Taxing -District,supra.
These cases establish that a regulation of industry in its relation to commerce is a commercial regulation and is to be so
considered, no matter by what indirection it is imposed. That
the State is not restrained from making such regulations by the
Fourteenth Article of Amendment may be true, but that is nothing to our present purpose, which is to determine the effect of
the commercial clause.
The proposition must be maintained broadly that the State
may by limitations imposed upon the commercial purposes for
which production is carried on, effect the entire destruction of
its external commerce, or the law here in question must be limited to its domestic traffic. We are concerned to know if a
power exists and not whether it has been reasonably exercised.
Authority is removed above the necessity of giving reasons and
needs not even to resort to Falstaff's shift of declining to give
them on compulsion.
Counsel also argued as a second point that the statute contravenes the Fourteenth Article of Amendment to the Constitution; but, as the opinion of the court treats this question as

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

settled, this portion of the argument is omitted. Indeed it has
been necessary to curtail and condense the argument on the
first point.
eL.C C. Cole and fit. John S.Runnells, for defendants in
error, submitted on their brief.
Mr. JUSTICE LAMuaE, having stated the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, in its opinion, a copy of which,
duly authenticated, is found in the record, having been transmitted according to our 8th Rule of Practice, held the sections
in question to mean: (1) That foreign intoxicating liquors
might be imported into the State, and there kept for sale by
the importer, in the original packages (or for transportation
in such packages and sale beyond the limits of the State); (2)
That intoxicating liquors might be manufactured and sold
within the State for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, and sacramental purposes, but for no other -not even for the purpose of transportation beyond the limits of the State; (3) That
the statute thus construed raised no conflict with the Constitution of the United States, and was therefore valid.
As the record presents none of the exceptional conditions
which sometimes impel this court to disregard inadmissible
constructions given by State courts to even their own State
statutes and State constitutions, we shall adopt the construction of the statute of Iowa under consideration, which has
been given it by the Supreme Court of that State.
The questions then, for this court to determine are: (1) Does
the statute as thus construed conflict with Section 8, Article 1,
of the Constitution of the United States by undertaking to
regulate commerce between the States; and (2) Does it conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to that Constitution by
depriving the owners of the distillery of their property therein
without "due process of law." All of the assignments of
error offered are but variant statements of one or the other of
these two propositions.
The second of the propositions has been disposed of by this

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

court in the case of .- fugler v. _Yansas, 123 U. S. 623, wherein
this very question was raised upon a statute similar, in all
essential respects, to the provisions of the Iowa code whose
validity is contested. The court decided that a State has the
right to prohibit or restrict the manufacture of intoxicating
liquors within her limits; to prohibit all sale and traffic in
them in said State; to inflict penalties for such manufacture
and sale, and to provide regulations for the abatem~nt as a
common nuisance of the property used for such forbidden
purposes; and that such legislation by a State is a clear exercise of her undisputed police power, which does not abridge the
liberties or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor
deprive any person of property without due process of law,
nor in any way contravenes any provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Upon
the authority of that case and of the numerous cases cited in
the opinion of the court, we concur in the decision of the Iowa
courts that the provisions here in question are not in conflict
with the said amendment. The only question before us, therefore, is as to the relation of the Iowa statutes to the regulation of commerce among the States.
The line which separates the province of federal authority,
over the regulation of commerce, from the powers reserved to
the States, has engaged the attention of this court in a great
number and variety of cases. The decisions in these cases,
though they do not in a single instance assume to trace that
line throughout its entire extent, or to state any rule further
than to locate the line in each particular case as it arises, have
almost uniformly adhered to the fundamental principles which
Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, laid down as to the nature and extent of the grant
of power to Congress on this subject, and also of the limitations, express and implied, which it imposes upon state legislation with regard to taxation, to the control of domestic commerce, and to all persons and things within its limits, of
purely internal concern.
According to the theory of that great opinion, the supreme
authority in this country is divided between the government

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States, whose action extends over the whole
Union, but which possesses only certain powers enumerated in
its written Constitution, and the separate governments of the
several States, whiclh retain all powers not delegated to the
Union. The power expressly conferred upon Congress to
regulate commerce is absolute and complete in itself, with no
limitations other than are prescribed in the Constitution; is to
a certain extent exclusively vested in Congress, so far free
from state action; is co-extensive with the subject on which
it acts, and cannot stop at the external boundary of a State,
but must enter into the interior of every State whenever required by the interests of commerce with foreign nations, or
among the several States. This power, however, does not
comprehend the purely internal domestic commerce of a State
which is carried on between man and man within a State or
between different parts of the same State.
The distinction is stated in the following comprehensive language:
"The genius and character of the whole government seem
to be that its action is to be applied to all the external
concerns of the nation, and to those internal concerns ;hich
affect the States generally; but not to those which are completely within a particular State, which do not affect otherStates, and with which it is not necessary to interfere for the.
purpose of executing some of the general powers of the gov-ernment. The completely internal commerce of a State, then,,
may be considered as reserved for the State itself." p. 195.
Referring to certain laws of state legislatures which had a
remote and considerable influence on commerce, the court
said that the acknowledged power of the State to regulate its.
police, its domestic trade, and to govern its own people may
enable it to legislate over this subject to a great extent; but
these and other state laws of the same kind are not considered,
as an exercise of the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States, or enacted with a view"
to it; but, on the contrary, are considered as flowing from the
acknowledged power of a State to provide for the safety andwelfare of its people, and form a part of that legislation which"
VOL.

cxxvI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

embraces everything within the territory of a State not surrendered to the general government. Sacred, however, as
these reserved powers are regarded, the court is particular to
de.clare with emphasis the supreme and paramount authority
of the Constitution and laws of the United States, relating to
the regulation of commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several States; and that whenever these reserved powers,
or any of them, are so exercised as to come in conflict with the
free course of the powers vested in Congress, the law of the
State must yield to the supremacy of the Federal authority,
though such law may have been enacted in the exercise of a
power undelegated and indisputably reserved to the States.
In the light of these principles, and those which this court
in its numerous decisions has added in illustration and more
explicit development, it will not be difficult to determine
whether the law of Iowa under consideration invades, either
in purpose or effect, the domain of Federal authority.
To support the affirmative, the plaintiff in error maintains
that alcohol is, in itself, a useful commodity, not necessarily
noxious, and is a subject of property; that the very statute
under consideration, by various provisions, and especially by
those which permit, in express terms, the manufacture of intoxicating liquors for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, or sacramental purposes, recognizes those qualities, and expressly
authorizes the manufacture; that the manufacture being thus
legalized, alcohol not being per se a nuisance, but recognized
as property and the subject of lawful commerce, the State had
no power to prohibit the manufacture of it for foreign sales.
The main vice in this argument consists in the unqualified
assumption that the statute legalizes the manufacture. The
proposition that, supposing the goods were once lawfully called
into existence, it would then be beyond the power of the State
either to forbid or impede their exportation, may be conceded.
Here, however, the very question underlying the case is whether
the goods ever came lawfully into existence. It is a grave
*error to say that the statute "expressly authorized" the manufacture, for it did not; to say that it had not prohibited the
manufacture, for it had done so; to say that the goods were

KIDD -v. PEARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

of Iowa's lawful manufactures, for that is substantially the
very point at issue. The exact statute is this: "1No person
shall manufacture or sell, . . . directly or indirectly, any intoxicating liquors, except as hereinafter provided." In a subsequent section it is provided further, that "nothing contained
in this law shall prevent any persons from manufacturing in
this State liquors for the purpose of being sold according to
the provisions of this chapter, to be used for mechanical, medicinal, culinary, or sacramental purposes." Here then is, first,
a sweeping prohibition against, not the manufacture and sale;
not a dealing which is composed of both steps, and consequently must include manufacture as well as sale, or, e conver'so, sale as well as manufacture, in order to incur the
denunciation of the statute, but against either the sale or the
manufacture. The conjunction is disjunctive. The sale is forbidden, the manufacture is forbidden; and each is forbidden
independently of the other. Such being the case, on the subject of the lawfulness or unlawfulness of the manufacture
(which is the point before the court), it is useless to argue as
to the conditions under. which it is permissible to hold intoxicating liquors in possession, or to sell them.
Looking again to the statute, we find that the unqualified
prohibition of any and all manufacture made by § 1523 is by
the joint operation of a proviso in § 1524 and of §§ 1526 and
1530, modified by four exceptions, viz.: Sale for mechanical
purposes, to an extent limited by the wants of the particular
locality of the seller; sale for medicinal purposes, to the same
extent; sale for culinary purposes, to the same extent; and
sale for sacramental purposes, to the same extent. The
Supreme Court of the State held (and we agree with it) that
these exceptions do not include sales outside of the State.
The effect of the statute, then, is simply and clearly to prohibit all manufacture of intoxicating liquors except for one or
more of the four purposes specified. "For the purpose," says
the statute. The excepted purpose is all that saves it from
being ab inltio and, through each and every step of its
progress, unlawful.
It is a mistake to say, as to this case, that the act of trans-

20

OCTOBER TERMT, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

porting the alcohol from the State in the course of lawful
commerce with other States not being a crime, to perform
that act was not a criminal intent, no matter when formed,
whether before or after the alcohol was manufactured. It is
not the criminality of the intent to export that is here the
question, but it is the innocence or criminality, under the statute of the manufacture, in the absence of all four of the
specific exceptions to the prohibition, the actual and controlling and bona fide presence of at least one of which was indispensable to the legality of the manufacture.
We think the construction contended for by plaintiff in
error would extend the words of the grant to Congress, in the
Constitution, beyond their obvious import, and is inconsistent
with its objects and scope. The language of the grant is,
"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States," etc. These words
are used without any veiled or obscure signification. "As men
whose intentions require no concealment generally employ the
words which most directly and aptly express the ideas they
intend to convey, the enlightened patriots who framed our
Constitution, and the people who adopted it, must be understood to have employed words in their natural sense and to
have intended what they have said." Gibbons v. Ogden,
supra, at page 188.
No distinction is more popular to the common mind, or
more clearly expressed in economic and political literature,
than. that between manufactures and commerce. Alanufacture
is transformation - the fashioning of raw materials into a
change of form for use. The functions of commerce are different. The buying and selling and the transportation incidental thereto constitute commerce; and the regulation of
commerce in the constitutional sense embraces the regulation
at least of such transportation. The legal definition of the
term, as given by this court in County of Mobile v. -imball,
102 'U. S. 691, 702, is as follows: "Commerce with foreign
countries, and among the States, strictly considered, consists in
intercourse and traffic, including in these terms navigation,
and the transportation and transit of persons and property,

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

as well as the purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities.'
If it be held that the term includes the regulation of all such
manufactures as are intended to be the subject of commercial
transactions in the future, it is impossible to deny that it
would also include all productive industries that contemplate
the same thing. The result would be that Congress would be
invested, to the exclusion of the States, with the power to
regulate, not only manufactures, but also agriculture, horticulture, stock raising, domestic fisheries, mining -in short, every
branch of human industry. For is there one of them that
does not contemplate, more or less clearly, an interstate or
foreign market? Does not the wheat grower of the Northwest, and the cotton planter of the South, plant, cultivate,
and harvest his crop with an eye on the prices at Liverpool,
New York, and Chicago? The power being vested in Congress
and denied to the States, it would follow as an inevitable
result that the duty would devolve on Congress to regulate
all of these delicate, multiform, and vital interests -interests
which in their nature are and must be, local in all the details
of their successful management.
It is not necessary to enlarge on, but only to suggest the impracticability of such a scheme, when we regard the multitudinous affairs involved, and the almost infinite variety of their
minute details.
It was said by Chief Justice Marshall, that it is a matter
of public history that the object of vesting in Congress the
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States was to insure uniformity of regulation
against conflicting and discriminating state legislation. See
also County of 3fobile v. Zimball, supIa, at page 697.

This being true, how can it further that object so to interpret the constitutional provision as to place upon Congress the
obligation to exercise the supervisory powers just indicated?
The demands of such a supervision would require, not uniform

legislation generally applicable throughout the United States,
but a swarm of statutes only locally applicable and utterly
inconsistent. Any movement toward the establishment of
rules of production in this vast country, with its many dif-

OCTOBER TERM,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

ferent climates and opportunities, could only be at the sacrifice
of the peculiar advantages of a large part of the localities in
it, if not of every one of them. On the other hand, any
movement toward the local, detailed, and incongTuous legislation required by such interpretation would be about the
widest possible departure from the declared object of the
clause in question. Nor this alone. Even in the exercise of
the power contended for, Congress would be confined to the
regulation, not of certain branches of industry, however numerous, but to those instances in each and every branch where
the producer contemplated an interstate market. These instances would be almost infinite, as we have seen; but still
there would always remain the possibility, and often it would
be the case, that the producer contemplated a domestic market.
In that case the supervisory power must be executed by the
State; and the interminable trouble would be presented, that
whether the one power or the other should exercise the authority in question would be determined, not by any general
or intelligible rule, but by the secret and changeable intention
of the producer in each and every act of production. A situation more paralyzing to the state governments, and more provocative of conflicts between the general government and the
States, and less likely to have been what the framers of the
constitution intended, it would be difficult to imagine.
We find no provisions in any of the sections of the statute
under consideration, the object and purpose of which are to
exert the jurisdiction of the State over persons or property or
transactions within the limits of other States; or to act upon
intoxicating liquors ag exports, or while they are in process of
exportation or importation. Its avowed object is to prevent,
not the carrying of intoxicating liquors out of the State, but
to prevent their manufacture, except for specified purposes,
within the State. It is true that, notwithstanding its purposes
and ends are restricted to the jurisdictional limits of the State
of Iowa, and apply to transactions wholly internal and between its own citizens, its effects may reach beyond the State
by lessening the amount of intoxicating liquors exported. But
it does not follow that, because the products of a domestic

KIDD v. PEARSON.
Opinion of the Court.

manufacture may ultimately become the subjects of interstate
commerce, at the pleasure of the manufacturer, the legislation
of the State respecting such manufacture is an attempted exercise of the power to regulate commerce exclusively conferred
upon Congress. Can it be said that a refusal of a Stato to
allow articles to be manufactured within her borders (for export) any more directly or materially affects her external commerce than does her action in forbidding the retail within her
borders of the same articles after they have left the hands of
the importers? That the latter could be done was decided
years ago; and we think there is no practical difference in
principle between the two cases.
"As has been often said, ' legislation [by a State] may in a
great variety of ways affect commerce and persons engaged in
it, without constituting a regulation of it within the meaning
of the Constitution,'" unless, under the guise of police regulations, it "imposes a direct burden upon interstate commerce,"
*or "interferes directly with its freedom." Hall v. -De Cuir, 95
U. S. 485, 487, 488, Chief Justice Waite delivering the opinion
of the court in that case, citing Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99,
103 ; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Aunn
v. Illinois,94 U.S.113; Cticago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155; Willson v. Blackbird Creek
Hars Co., 2 Pet. 245 ; Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459 ; Gilman, v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713; Gibbons v. Ogden, supra;
and Cooley v. Board of WVardens, etc., 12 How. 299.
We have seen that whether a State, in the exercise of its
undisputed power of local administration, can enact a statute
prohibiting within its limits the manufacture of intoxicating
liquors, except for certain purposes, is not any longer an open
question before this court. Is that right to be overthrown by
the fact that the manufacturer intends to export the liquors
when made? Does the statute, in omitting to except from its
operation the manufacture of intoxicating liquors within the
limits of the State for export, constitute an unauthorized interference with the power given to Congress to regulate commerce?
These questions are well answered in the language of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

court in the -License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 470: "Over this
commerce and trade [the internal commerce and domestic
trade of the States] Congress has no power of regulation, nor
any direct control. This power belongs exclusively to the
States. No interference by Congress with the business of
citizens transacted within a State is warranted by the Constitution, except such as is strictly incidental to the exercise of
powers clearly granted to the legislature. The power to authorize a business within a State is plainly repugnant to the
exclusive power of the State over the same subject." The
manufacture of intoxicating liquors in a State is none the less
a business within that State, because the manufacturer intends, at his convenience, to export such liquors to foreign
countries or to other States.
This court has already decided that the fact that an article
was manufactured for export to another State does not of
itse f make it an article of interstate commerce within the
meaning of § 8, Art. 1, of the Constitution, and that theo
intent of the manufacturer does not determine the time when
the article or product passes from the control of the State and
belongs to commerce.
We refer to the case of Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517. In
that case certain logs cut at a place in New Hampshire had
been hauled to the town of Errol on the Androscoggin IRiver,
in that State, for the purpose of transportation beyond the
limits of that State to Lewiston, Maine; and were held at
Errol for a convenient opportunity for such transportation.
The selectmen of the town assessed on the logs State, county,
town, and school taxes; and the question before the court was
whether these logs were liable to be taxed like other property
in the State of New Hampshire. The court held them to be
so liableand said, Mr. Justice Bradley delivering the opinion:
"Does the owner's state of mind in relation to the goods, that
is, his intent to export them, and his partial preparation to do
so, exempt them from taxation? This is the precise question
for solution. . . . There must be a point of time when they
cease to be governed exclusively by the domestic law and
begin to be governed and protected by the national law of

KIDD

v.

PEARSON.

Opinion of the Court.

commercial regulation, and that moment seems to us to be a
legitimate one for this purpose, in which they commence their
final -movement for transportation from the State of their origin to that of their destination. When the products of the
farm or the forest are collected and brought in from the surrounding country to a town or station serving as an entrep6t
for that particular region, whether on a river or a line of railroad, sach products are not yet exports, nor are they in process of exportation, nor is exportation begun until they are committed to the common carrier foi transportation out of the
State to the State of their destination, or have started on their
ultimate passage to that State. Until then it is reasonable to
regard them as not only within the State of their origin, but
as a part of the general mass of property of that State, subject
to its jurisdiction, and liable to taxation there, if not taxed by
reason of their being intended for exportation, but taxed without any discrimination, in the usual way and manner in which
such property is taxed in the State. . . . The point of time
when State jurisdiction over the commodities of commerce begins and ends in not an easy matter to designate or define,
and yet it is highly important, both to the shipper and to the
State, that it should be clearly defined so as to avoid all
ambiguity or question. . . . But no definite rule has been
adopted with regard to the point of time at which the taxing
power of the State ceases as to goods exported to a foreign
country or to another State. What we have already said, however, in relation to the products of a State intended for exportation to another State, will indicate the view which seems to
us the sound one on that subject, namely, that such goods do not
cease to be part of the general mass of property in the State,
subject, as such, to its jurisdiction, and to taxation in the usual
way, until they have been shipped, or entered with a common
carrier for transportation to another State, or have been
started upon such transportation in a continuous route or journey. . . . It is true, it was said in the case of The Danie
Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 565: 'Whenever a commodity has begun
to move as an article of trade from one State to another, commerce in that commodity between the States has commenced.'

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

But this movement does not begin until the articles have been
shipped or started for transportation from the one State to
the other."
The application of the principles above announced to the
case under consideration leads to a conclusion against the contention of the plaintiff in error. The police power of a State
is as broad and plenary as its taxing power; and property
within the State is 'subject to the operations of the former so
long as it is within the regulating restrictions of the latter.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is
.Affrmed.

M . CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER was not a member of the court
when this case was argued and submitted, and took no part in
its decision.

LEATHER

MANUFACTURERS'
BANK
CHANTS' BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

v.

STATES

MER-

FOR TE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 10. Argued December 2, 5, 1887.- Decided October 22, 1888.

If a bank, upon which a check is drawn payable to a particular person or
order, pays the amount of the check to one presenting it with a forged
indorsement of the payee's name, both parties supposing the indorsement
.to be genuine, a right of action to recover back the money accrues at the
date of the payment, and the statute of limitations begins to run from
that date.

THE original action was brought December 7,1877, by the
Merchants' National Bank of the city of New York against
the Leather Manufacturers' National Bank to recover back the
sum of $17,500 paid on March 10, 1870, to the defendant, the
holder of a check drawn upon the plaintiff for that amount,
with interest from June 20, 1871. The defendant, among
other defences, pleaded the statute of limitations, and also that
the plaintiff never demanded repayment or tendered the check
to the defendant until long since the commencement of this

