BUNDY v. COOKE.
Opinion of the Court.

BUNDY v. COOKE.
A-PPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 42. Argued and submitted October 29,1888. -Decided

November 12, ISS8.

A bill in equity, filed in Kentucky, by the receiver of a national bank located
in Arkansas, against a married woman and her husband, 'alleged to be
citizens of Kentucky, to enforce against the separate property of the
wife the collection of an assessment by the comptroller of the currency
of 50 per cent of the par value of the stock, as an individual liability of
the shareholders, averred that when the bank suspended, the wife was
the owner of 100 shares of the stock, and that it still stood in her name
on the books of the bank, and that she possessed property in her own
right sufficient to pay such assessment: Held, on demurrer to the bill
that, so far as appeared, the remedy was in equity, and the bill was
sufficient on its face.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
21'. John 3fason Brown for appellant. Mr.Alexander P.
Humphrey and .APe. George I. Davis were with him on the
brief.
Mr. B. F. Buckner for defendant in error submitted on his
brief.
M

.JUs

ICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 4th of February, 1885, Martin L. Bundy, receiver of
the Hot Springs National Bank, of Hot Springs, in the State
of Arkansas, filed his bill of complaint in the Circuit Court cf
the United States for the district of Kentucky, against William
M. Cooke and Amanda M. Cooke, his wife, and James Flanagan and Sue Flanagan, his wife, all of the defendants being
alleged in the bill to be citizens of Kentucky.
The bill alleges that, on the 1st of March, 1884, the bank
was a corporation created and .organized under the national
banking statutes, with a capital stock of $50,000, divided into

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

500 shares of $100 each at their par value; that it had its
office of discount and deposit in the city of Hot Springs, in the
State of Arkansas; that it suspended the business of banking
on the 27th of May, 1884; that the plaintiff was duly appointed receiver of the bank on the 2d of June, 1884; and
that, on the 25th of July, 1884, the comptroller of the currency determined that it was necessary to enforce the individual liability of the shareholders in the bank, to the amount of
50 per centum of the par value of its capital stock, "and did
make an order and requisition on the stockholders and each
and every one of them, equally and ratably, as the shares were
held and owned by them respectively at the time said bank
suspended and ceased to do business," and directed the plaintiff "as such receiver" to take the necessary legal proceedings
to enforce such assessment against the shareholders in said
bank, and each and every one of them.
The bill then contains the following allegation: "And your
orator would further state, that on the 27th day of May,
A.D. 1884, when said bank suspended and ceased to do business,
Amanda M. Cocke, wife of William M. Cocke, (both of whom
are made defendants hereto,) was the owner of 100 shares of
the capital stock thereof, of the par value of $10,000, and the
same still stands in her name on the books of the said association, on which the equal and ratable assessment and requisition made by the comptroller as aforesaid is $5000, with interest thereon from the said 25th day of July, 1884; that said
defendant Amanda is possessed of property in her own right
amply sufficient to pay said assessment, but utterly refuses to
do so."
Then follows a like allegation as to Mrs. Flanagan, as the
owner of twelve shares of the stock.
The prayer of the bill is, that an account be taken of the
shares of stock held by each of the married women defendants
respectively, at the date of such suspension and the assessment
and requisition made by the comptroller of currency thereon,
and that a decree be made for the payment thereof out of the
separate property held by the married women defendants in
their own right, as each may be found indebted, with interest.,

BUNDY v. COCKE.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. and Mrs. Oocke filed a demurrer to the bill for want
of equity and also for multifariousness. The plaintiff then
amended the bill by striking out the names of Flanagan and
his wife as defendants; and, in July, 1885, he fied a bill of
revivor, based on the fact of the death of Mrs. Cocke in
March, 1885.
The bill of revivor alleges, that when Mrs. Cooke died, she
was a citizen of Kentucky, and was domiciled and resident
therein; that she left a will whereby her husband was appointed her sole executor and her sole residuary legatee and
devisee; that the will had been duly proved and recorded in
the proper court in Kentucky; and that Mr. Cooke had accepted the terms of the will and taken upon himself the
office of such executor." The bill prays for the revival of the
suit against Mr. Cocke as devisee and legatee of his wife and
as sole executor of her will, and for relief against him out of
all assets received or held by him as devisee or legatee of his
wife or as executor of her will.
M r. Cooke appeared and filed a demurrer to the bill of revivor, for want of equity. The cause was heard on the demurrer to the bill and the demurrer to the bill of revivor.
The court sustained both of the demurrers, giving to the plaintiff time to amend his bill, and, he declining to do so., a decree
was entered dismissing it. From that decree the plaintiff has
appealed.
From the opinion of the court, accompanying the record,
,the ground of the dismissal appears to have been, that the
bill was defective in not alleging that, at the time Mrs. Cooke
became a stockholder, she had the capacity to become a stockholder. But we think the bill is not open to this objection. It
alleges that, at the time the bank suspended, Mrs. Cooke "was
the owner" of the 100 shares. This is an allegation that she
was then the lawful owner of those shares, and had lawfully
become such owner, with the capacity to become such owner
at the time she became such owner. It is consistent with this
allegation, that she may have owned the shares before she
married Mr. Cooke, or that, when she became such owner, if
she was then the wife of Mr. Cooke, she had the right to be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

come such owner, by virtue of the laws of the State of Arkansas, where the bank was located, in connection with the
provisions of the statiutes of the United States in regard to
national banks.
Section 4194: of the Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas,
published in 1874, c. 93, p. 756, provides as follows: "Section
4194. A married woman may bargain, sell, assign and
transfer her separate personal property, and carry on any
trade or business, and perform any labor or services on her
sole and separate account; and the earnings of any married
woman, from her trade, business, labor or services shall be her
sole and separate property, and may be Used or invested by
her in her own name; and she may alone sue or be sued in the
courts of this State on account of the 'said property, business
or services." Under this provision, if it was in force at the
time of the transaction, it would seem that Mrs. Cooke, when
a married woman, might lawfully have either subscribed for
or taken an assignment of the shares, they being shares of a
national bank in Arkansas, and the transaction being, therefore, governed by the statutes of Arkansas, unless, under special circumstances, a different rule ought to govern. .Ailliken
v. .Pratt,125 -Mass. 374.
As the bill alleges that Mrs. Cooke is possessed of property
in her own right amply sufficient to pay the assessment, and
as the prayer of the bill is for a decree for the payment of the
amount of the assessment out of the separate property held
by her in her own right, and as the bill of revivor prays for
relief against Mr. Cooke out of the assets received by him
as the legatee or devisee of his wife, or as executor of her
will, the case is clearly one of equitable cognizance, because it
does not appear that she could be sued at law, to reach her
separate property. 3 Pomeroy's Eq. Juris., ยง 1099.
The original bill and bill of revivor are sufficient on their
faces to call upon Mr. Cooke to answer them, and, when all
the facts bearing upon the case are fully developed, the rights
of the parties can be properly adjudicated. For that reason,
we refrain from considering any of the other questions discussed at the bar.

JALHNE v. NEW YORK.
Citations for Appellant.

Te decree of the Circuit Court isreversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction to overrule the demurrer to the original bill and the demurrer to the bill qf
r'evivor, and to take such further proceedings as may be
proper and not inconsistent with this opinion.

J.AEHNKE v. NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1409.

Argued October 29, 1881.-Decided November 12, 1888.

A general law for the punishment of offences which endeavors by retroactive operation to reach acts before committed, and also provides a like
punishment for the same acts in future, is void so far as it is retrospective, and valid as to future cases within the legislative control.

Tins was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, and for a
writ of certiorari. The alleged grounds for the issue of the
writ are stated in the opinion of the court. The writ was
denied and the petitioner took this appeal.
Mr. Roger Xl.Sherman, for appellant, cited Calder v. Bull,
3 Dall. 386; Exarte Garland,74:
Wall. 333; Windsor v. -VTeVFoigh, 93 U. S. 274; Tweed v. .iscomb, 60 N. Y. 559; Butts
v. Mfuscatine, 8 Wall. 575; T-illiams v. Bruffy, 96 U. S. 176;
Allen, v. Louisiana,103 U. S. 80; Wright v. IVagle, 101 U. S.
791; Ohio Life & Trust Co. v. Bebolt, 16 How. 416; -Douglass
v. Pike County, 101 U. S. 677; Louisville & Nashville Rail
road v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244; Grenada County v. Brogden,
112 U. S. 261; Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358; Delmas v.
Insurance Co., 14 Wall. 661; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20; Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 595; Tilliams v. Oliver, 12 How.
125; Klinger v. Ilfissouri, 13 Wall. 257; Ogden v. Saunders,
12 Wheat. 213, 270; hew fleong v. United States, 112 U. S.
536; People v. Quigg, 59 N. Y. 83; In re Delaware& Hudson

