EX PARTE TERRY.
Syllabus.

The suit in thisitase is not sustainable under the provision
of the bankrupt act against a preference of creditors in fraud
of the law, because the bankruptcy proceedings were not
brought within the time prescribed by that act as necessary to
avoid such preference. But a right is shown to relief on the
ground that the instrument was made to hinder and delay
creditors.
The decree of the circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, and
the case remanded to that court, with instructions to
r'efer the ease to a master, before whom the defendants, the
trustees, must accountfor the property conveyed to them by
the instrument.
In this accounting all the creditors, secured and unsecured,
ist
be brought into a concourse and held to an equal
right in distributionof thefunds arisingfrom the sale qf
the goods and the choses in action assigned to the trustees.
But in accounting with the trustees they must be credited
with what they have paid to any of the creditors, so far as
those creditors would be entitled on an equal andpro rata
distribution among all the creditors of all the assets conveyed to them by the deed of trust.

EX PARTE TERRY.
ORIGINAL.
No.6.

Original. Submitted, October 18. 188. -Decided

November 12, 1888.

This court is not required to exercise the power conferred upon it by Rev.
Stat. §§ 751-753, to inquire upon writ of habeas corpus into the cause of
the restraint of the liberty of any person who is in jail under or by color
of the authority of the United States, or who is in custody in violation
of the Constitution of the United States, if it appears, upon the petitioner's own showing, that, if brought into court, and the cause of his
commitment inquired into, he would be remanded to prison.
The power of Circuit Courts of the United States to punish contempts of
their authority is incidental to their general power to exercise judicial
functions, and the cases in which it may be employed are defined by acts
of Congress.
VOL. CxxvIm-19

OCTOBER TERMN,

1888.

Statement of the Case.
An order committing for contempt is a nullity if tle court making it was
without jurisdiction of the person of the offender, and he can be discharged upon writ of habeas corpus, though such writ cannot be used to
correct mere errors and irregularities however flagrant.
Upon original application to this court for a writ of habeascorpus on behalf
of a person committed by order of a Circuit Court of the United States
for contempt committed in its presence, the facts recited in such order
as constituting the contempt must be taken as true, and would be so
taken upon a return to the writ if one were awarded.
A Circuit Court of the United States, upon the commission of a contempt
in its presence, may, upon its own knowledge of the facts, without
further proof, without issue or trial, (and without hearing an explanation of the motives of the offender,) immediately proceed to determine
whether the facts justify punishment, and to inflict such punishment
therefor as the law allows.
The jurisdiction of a Circuit Court to immediately inflict punishment for a
contempt committed in its presence is not defeated by the voluntary retirement of the offender from the court-room to a neighboring room
in the same building after committing the offence; but it is within the
discretion of the court either to at once make an order of commitment.
founded on its own knowledge of the facts, or to postpone action until
the offender can be arrested on process, brought back into its presence,
and given an opportunity to make formal defence against the charge of
contempt; and any abuse of that discretion is at most an irregularity or
error, not affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
The facts in this case, as detailed in the papers before the court, and as
they must be regarded in this collateral proceeding, show nothing in conflict with the fundamental principles of Magna Charta; nor do they show
that the alleged offence was committed at a time preceding and separated
from the commencement of the prosecution, bu , on the contrary, the
commission of the contempt, the retirement of the offender from the
court-room to the marshal's office in the same building, and the making
of the order of commitment all took place substantially on the same occasion, and constituted, in legal effect, one continuous, cbmplete transaction, occurring on the same day, and at the same session of the court.

THIS was an application for leave to file a petition for a writ
of habeas cor2us. The petitioner alleged that he was unlawfully undergoing a term of imprisonment in California, under a
judgment rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of that State, adjudging that he had
been guilty of contempt in the presence of the court, and ordering him to be punished therefor by imprisonment in the
county jail of the county of Almeda in that State until the
further order of the court, but not to exceed the term of six

EX PARTE TERRY.
Argument for Petitioner.

months. This order, which recited the facts constituting the
contempt, is set forth at length in the application for leave
to file the petition, and will be found, together with the
petition, in the opinion of the court, post, 297. :Reference is
made to both the petition and the order there, for a further
understanding of the case.
31r. Samuel Sellabarger and -Mr. TrX..Trilson in support
of the petition filed a brief, making the following points:
I. It appears by the copy of the proceedings and order of
the court that it does not anywhere disclose that the said
Terry was in court at the time when the order for his imprisonment was made, or that he had any notice whatever that
such proceedings for contempt would be instituted, or had
been instituted, nor that he had any opportunity, whatever,
to be heard regarding his said conviction. It will also be seen
that the said Terry, in his application, makes oath that: "Said
order was made by said court in the absence of your petitioner,
and without his having any notice of the intention of the said
court to take any proceedings whatever in relation to the
matters referred to in the said order, and without giving your
petitioner any o~portunity whatever of 3eing heard in defence
of the charge therein against him."
The fact disclosed by the record being, therefore, such that
there is no indication in the record that the accused was present in court either when the proceedings against him were
commenced, or when they were proceeded with, or when he
was adjudged guilty, therefore the presumption, in a criminal
case like this, is that there was no such notice or opportunity
for defence, because the jurisdiction of that court, for the purpose of rendering the judgment, must, in every case, be affirmatively disclosed by the record, otherwise the reviewing court
will presume want of jurisdiction. Grace v. Irsurance Co.,
Yorth America, 4
109 U. S. 278, 283; Turner v. Ban7k of N
Dall. 8; Exe parte Smith, 94 -U. S.455; Robertson v. Cease, 97
U. S.646; B&rs v. Preston, 111. U. S.252, 255.
Il.It is no answer to this to say that the record shows that

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Argument for Petitioner.

the offence was committed in the presence of the court. The
criminal proceeding for contempt is, under our law, strictly
and technically an independent action or proceeding. True,
this proceeding is summary in its nature, yet it is none the less
on that account an independent or distinct proceeding, regulated
by its own rules and principles, and is highly penal, and, consequently, strictly and jealously guarded by the courts. -Yew
Orleans v. Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387, 392, citing Exparte
Hearney, 7 Wheat. 38 ; Hayes v. Fischer,102 U. S. 121. In re
Cailds, 22 Wall. 157; Stimpson v. Putnam,41 Vermont, 248;
IFordenv. Searls, 121 U. S. 14.
It is impossible to question the proposition that the judgmenl in the present case was one wholly independent of the
case on trial when the alleged contempt was committed, and
strictly criminal in its nature, and, therefore, one where no
presumptions will be made that the court had jurisdiction
to inflict the punishment, because the'court may have had
jurisdictionin the case on trial when the alleged contempt was
committed. Hence, the jurisdiction of the court, in this
wholly independent criminal prosecution for contempt, must
be disclosed by the record, and will not be presumed from the
fact that the court may have had jurisdiction of the case on
trial when the contempt occurred.
The averment of the relator is that when the proceedings in
contempt were begun, continued and ended, he was absent
from the court- had no intimation of the existence of such
proceedings or that they would be instituted, and had no
opportunity to be heaxd. Here, then, is a "suggestion" an averment of a fact -not of a fact going to the merits
of the accusation of contempt -not one of those things which
can be examined only on writ of error or appeal -but of a
fact going directly to the power of the court to either consider the merits or render the judgment of imprisonment.
That such fact of the service required to give jurisdiction is
one always open to proof in attacking a judgment, see Biddle v.
lilkins, 1 Pet. 686. This is incontestably so, provided notice
and opportunity to be heard- before judgment is requisite to
give the cpurt jurisdiction in such cases. Now nothing is bet-

EX PARTE TERRY.
Argument for Petitioner.

ter settled than that a suggestion, in the application for the writ
of habeas cous in cases of this character, setting up facts
going to the defeat of the jurisdiction, will be examined into
by this court on h abeas corpus. Exeparte Fisk, 113 U. S. '713.
III. Before conviction in a criminal prosecution for contempt, there must be an opportunity to be heard -something
that amounts to notice that the party is accused, and opportunity to make defence. We do not deny that it was within
the power of the court instantly, upon the commission, in its
presence, of the alleged contempt, and the offender continuing
to be present, to adjudge the offending party guilty of contempt, and to order imprisonment.
But here the record discloses, not only that the petitioner
was not instantlyproceeded against,but that he was allowed
to depart from the court, and was not again brought before it
in such a way as to compel him to take notice of all orders
and steps in the totally separate and distinct proceedings in
the contempt case.
We are therefore brought to the naked question whether, in
the federal courts, of limited jurisdiction, a record resulting
in imprisoning a man for criminal contempt must not show in
some way independently of the averment that the contempt was
committed in theface of the court, that he had notice of the
prosecution which resulted in his imprisonment? In answer
to this question, we cannot do better than to refer to the language quoted by Coolie, in his Constitutional Limitations, page
403, 3d ed. [472] n. 2, where the rule on this subject is stated
in these words: "Notice of some kind is the vital breath that
animates judicial jurisdiction over the person. It is the primary element of the application of the judicatory power. It
is of the essence of a cause. Without it there cannot be parties, and without parties there may be the form of a sentence,
but no judgment obligating the person." See also Bagg's
Case, 11 Rep. 99; Cooper v. Board of Work8s, 14 C. B.
(N. S.) 180, 194; .Meade v. .Deputy 2farshal of Virginia, 1
Brock. 324; Goetcheus v. .fatthewson, 61 N. Y. 420. See also
Windsor v. .Af Veigh, 93 U. S. 274; Mac Veigh v. United
States, 11 Wall. 259; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S.350; Pana

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Petitioner.

v. Bowler, 107 'U. S. 529, 545; Regina v. Dyer, 1 Salk. 181;
S. C. 6 Mod. 41; Rex v. Benn and Church, 6 T. R. 198; 1

Halkins Pleas of the Crown, 420; Rex v. "enables, 2 Ld.
:Raym. 1405.
IV. These cases establish the general proposition that even
in cases where summary convictions are allowed, no condemnation is tolerated, by our law, without the accused being
first furnished with notice that he is to be prosecuted, and
with opportunity to know whereof he is accused, and to make
reply.
Upon most familiar principle, this must be the law, even
where the alleged contempt is committed in the face of the
court, and where, therefore, no opening proof is required to
establish, _primafacie, the fact of contempt.
V. We now turn to some authorities more directly in point
on the particular facts of this case.
1n re Pollard, L. R. 2 P. C., 106. This case was heard
before Sir William Erie, Lord Justice Wood, Lord Justice
Selwyn, Sir James William Colvile and Sir Edward Vaughan
Williams. The decision is accurately stated in the syllabus thus:
"A contempt of court, being a criminal offence, no person
can be punished for such unless the -specifc ofence charged
againsthim be distinctly stated and an o2pportunity given him
of answering.
"A barrister engaged in his professional duties before the
Supreme Court at Hong Kong, was, without notice of the
alleged contempt, or rule to show cause, and without being
heard in defence, by an order of that court, fined and adjudged to have been guilty of several contempts of court in
disrespectfully addressing the Chief Justice while conducting
a cause. Such order, upon a reference by the Crown to the
Judicial Committee under the statute 3 & 4 Will. 4 c. 41, § 4,
set aside, and the fine ordered to be remitted, first, on the
ground that the order was bad inasmuch as the offences
charged were not, of themselves such contempts of court as
legally constitute an offence; and secondly, that even if that
had been so, no distinct charge of the several alleged ofences
was stated, and -no oportunity given to the Tarty accused of
being heard,before passing sentence."

EX PARTE TERRY.
Argument for Petitioner.

The case of Cavpel v. Child, 2 Or. & Jer. 558, is in point.
Although the statute 57 Geo. III. c. 99, § 50, under which
the bishop, in that case, had nominated a curate, and thereby
removed an incumbent, gave the bishop authority to act in
that matter "whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of
any bishop, either of his awn knowledge or by proof by affida'vit, that the ecclesiastical duties of a benefice are inadequately
performed, he may require the incumbent to nominate a fit
person to assist;" yet it was held in that case that the removal
of the incumbent was illegal and void for want of opportunity
to be heard; and this, although the bishop's requisition contained the words "whereas it appears to us of our own knowledge." The ground of this decision is sufficiently indicated
by the following sentence from the opinion of Bailey, Baron:
"There is a case of The Zing v. Benn and Church, 6 T. R.
198, in which, where a warrant of distress, wbich is in the
nature of an execution, had issued, not grounded on a previous
summons, Lord Kenyon laid it down most distinctly as an
invariablemadoimn of our law, that no man shall be punished
before he has had an opportunity of being heard," p. 579-580.
We submit that this case is precisely in point. It is a case
where the statute permitted the bishop to act upon his own
knowledge exclusively. It is a case where the bishop certified
that the facts upon which he acted were within his own
knowledge, but in which he gave the incumbent an opportunity to be heard. In this it is in exact analogy with the case
at bar, in that the court assumed to render judgment, because
the facts, upon which the judgment was founded were, in part
at least, within the knowledge of the bishop; but judgment
was nevertheless rendered without affording the accused an
opportunity to be heard.
The case of King v. Cambridge University, 8 Mod. 148,
was one where, by mandamus, a member of the University
was restored to his doctor's degree, from which he had been
degraded by the University Court for speaking contemptuous
words of the Vice-Chancellor and of the court. In this case
the court, speaking of summary proceedings for contempt,
say: "Now as to that matter, it is a constant rule in all cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Petitioner.

where a mandamus is granted that the party should have
notice of his charge; but it does not appear by this return
that the -Doctorwas summoned to answer for a contempt; so
that he was sentenced without being heard, which is illegal
and against natural justice, as may appear by the cases in the
margin." The cases cited in the margin are: "9 Edw. 4, 14a;
39 H en. 6, 32; 11 Co. 99a; Sid. 14. pl. 7; 2 Sid. 97; Style,
446, 452; Fortesc. Rep. 206, 325; Salk. 181. pl. 1; 2 Salk.
434, 435; Ld. Raym. 225; 2 Ld. Raym. 1343, 1405, 1407;
4 Mod. 33, 37; 6 Mod. 41; Ante, 3, 101; Post, 377; 12 Mod.
27; Stra. 567, 630, 678; Sess. Cas. 172; pl. 155, 219; pl. 179,
267; pl. 210, 295; pl. 252, 353; pl. 281. Fol. 416; Cas. of
Set. and Rem. 373; 2 Barnard, K. B. 241, 264, 282."
In the case of Foote, 18 Pac. Rep. 678, the respondent had
been adjudged guilty of contempt done in the presence of the
court and fined $300, but this some fifty days after the allegerl
contempt, and without notice to the con ternnor. The Supreme
Court of California discharged the accused upon habeas
copus for the reason that the court, because of the delay,
had lost jurisdiction to proceed as it might have done "at the
time" of the alleged contempt. "Judgment cannot be given
against any man in his absence for corporal punishment; he
must be present when it is done." Lord Holt in lRex v. -Duke,
H'olt, 399.
This rule has never been departed from in a single case either
in England or in the United States. ]iex v. ffarris,Comb.
447; The People v. Winchell, 7 Cowen, 525; The Peo.ple v.
Clark, 1 Parker Cr. Cas. 360; State v. THughes, 2 Alabama, 102;
S. 0. 36 Am. Dec. 411; ffooker v. Commnonwealth, 13 Grattan,
763; The .People v. _ohler, 5 California, 72; Ha-ris v. JDuke,
Lofft, 400; S. C. Ld. Raym. 267; Due's Case, 1 Salk. 400.
The record must show affirmatively that the defendant was
then present. ilamilton v. The Commonwealth, 16 Penn. St.
129; S. C. 55 Am. Dec. 485; .Dunn v. The Commonwealth, 6
Penn. St. 384; State v. Matthews, 20 Missouri, 55 ;' Scaggs v.
Iississippi, 8 Sm. & Marsh. 722; Safford v. The People, 1
Parker Cr. Cas. 474; K-elly v. The State, 3 Sm. & Marsh. 518;
Eliza v. The State, 39 Alabama, 693; Graham v. The State,
40 Alabama, 659.

EX PARTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

Contempt can only be visited summarily while the parties
are yet in view of the court. Stockham v. F ench, 1 Bing.
365; Exparte Whitchurch, I Atk. 55; lollingsworth v. .Duane,
Wall. C. C. 77.
Whatever may be the view of the court regarding the other
points now submitted, the relator must be discharged on the
ground that this court can never give its august and supreme
sanction to a rule of law or practice which, without affording
to the citizen accused any manner of notice, or even hint,
regarding the accusation against him, and with no sort of
opportunity to be heard, proceeds, in his absence, to accuse, to
try, to pronounce judgment and to order him to be imprisoned;
this for an alleged offence committed at a time preceding, and
,eparated
from, the comraencement of his prosecuation.
It seems to us that to do this would be not only to disregard
the fundamental principles contained in -Magna Cearta,in the
Bills of Rights of all our States, and in the Federal Constitution, but would be, moreover, to inflict upon the very best,
and the fundamental principles of our civilization an injury
such as has never before been inflicted by the judgment of
any court.
MR. JUSTICE H

AnL delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an original application to this court for a writ of
habeas coipus. The petitioner, David S. Terry, alleges that
he is unlawfully imprisoned, under an order of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, in the jail of Alameda County in that State.
That order is made a part of his application, and is as follows:
"In the Circuit Court of the United States of America for the
2-orthern, Districtof California.
"In the Matter of Contempt of David S. Terry. In open
court.
"Whereas on this 3d day of September, 1888, in open
court, and in the presence of the judges thereof, to wit, Hon.
Stephen J. Field, Circuit Justice, presiding; Hon. Lorenzo

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Sawyer, Circuit Judge, and Hon. George M. Sabin, District
Judge, during the session of said court, and while said court
was engaged in its regular business, hearing and determining
causes pending before it, ono Sarah Althea Terry was guilty
of misbehavior in the presence and hearing of said court;
"And whereas, said court thereupon duly and lawfully
ordered the United States marshal, J. C. Franks, who was
then present, to remove the said Sarah Althea Terry from the
court-room;
"And whereas the said United States marshal then and
there attempted to enforce said order, and then and there was
resisted by one David S. Terry, an attorney of this court, who,
while the said marshal was attempting to execute said order
in the presence of the court, assaulted the said United States
marshal, and then and there beat him, the said marshal, and
then and there wrongfully and unlawfully assaulted said marshal, with a deadly weapon, with intent to obstruct the administration of justice, and to resist such United States marshal
and the execution of the said order;
"And whereas the said David S. Terry was guilty of a contempt of this court by misbehavior in its presence and by a
forcible resistance in the presence of the court to a lawful
order thereof, in the manner aforesaid:
1Now, therefore, be it ordered and adjudged by this court,
That the said David S. Terry, by reason of said acts, was, and
is, guilty of contempt of the authority of this court, committed
in its presence on this 3d day of September, 18S8;
"And it is further ordered, That the said David S. Terry
be punished for said contempt by imprisonment for the term
of six months;
"And it is further ordered, That this judgment be executed
by imprisonment of the said David S. Terry in the county jail
of the county of Alameda, in the State of California, until the;
further order of this court, but not to exceed said term of six
months;
"And it is further ordered, That a certified copy of this
order, under the seal of the court, be process and warrant for
executing this order."

EX PARTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition alleges that "said order was made by said
court in the absence of your petitioner, and without his having
any notice of the intention of said court to take any proceeding whatever in relation to the matters referred to in said
order, and without giving your petitioner any opportunity
whatever of being heard in defence of the charges therein
made against him."
The petition proceeds:
"And your petitioner further showeth that on the 12th day
of September, 1888, he addressed to the said Circuit Court a
petition, duly verified by his oath, in the words and figures
following, to wit:
'1I the Circuit Court of the Mbited States, NYinth Circuit,
lVorthern, District of California.
'In the Matter of Contempt of David S. Terry.
'To the Hlonorable Circuit Court aforesaid:
'The petition of David S. Terry respectfully represents:
'That in all the matters and transactions occurring in the
said court on the 3d day of September, inst., upon which
the order in this matter was based, your petitioner did not
intend to say or do anything disrespectful to said court or the
judges thereof, or to any one of them; that when petitioner's
wife, the said Sarah Althea Terry, first arose from her seat,
and before she uttered a word, your petitioner used every
effort in his power to cause her to resume her seat and remain
quiet; and lie did nothing to encourage her in her acts of
indiscretion; when this court made the order that petitioner's
wife be removed from the court-room, your petitioner arose
from his seat with the purpose and intention of himself removing her from the court-room, quietly and peaceably, and had
no intention or design of obstructing or preventing the execution of the said order of the court; that he never struck or
offered to strike the United States marshal until the said marshal had assaulted himself, and had in his presence violently,
and, as he believed, unnecessarily, assaulted petitioner's wife.
' Your petitioner most solemnly avers that he neither drew

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or attempted to draw any deadly weapon of any kind whatever in said court-room, and that he did not assault or attempt
to assault the United States marshal with any deadly .weapon
in said cburt-room or elsewhere.
' And in this connection he respectfully represents that after
he had lft said court-room he heard loud talking in one of
the rooms of the United States marshal, and among the voices
proceeding therefrom he recognized that of his wife, and he
thereupon attempted to force his way into said room through
the main office of the United States marshal; the door of
this room was blocked with such a crowd of men that the
door could not be closed; that your petitioner then for the
first time drew from inside his vest a small sheath knife, at
the same time saying to those standing in his way in said
door, that he did not want to hurt any one; that all he wanted
was to get in the room where his wife was; the crowd then
parted, and your petitioner entered the doorway, and there
saw a United States deputy-marshal with a revolver in his
hand pointed to the ceiling of the room; some one then said,
"Let him in, if he will give up his knife," and your petitioner
immediately released hold of the knife to some one standing by.
'In none of these transactions did your petitioner have the
slightest idea of showing any disrespect to this honorable
court or any of the judges thereof.
'That he lost his temper, he respectfully submits, was a
natural consequence of himself being assaulted when he was
making an honest effort to peacefully and quietly enforce the
order of the court so as to avoid a scandalous scene, and of
seeing his wife so unnecessarily assaulted in his presence.
'Wherefore your petitioner respectfully requests that this
honorable court may, in the light of the facts herein stated,
revoke the order made herein committing him to prison for
six months.
'And your petitioner will ever pray, etc.
'Dated Sept. 12, 1888.'
The petitioner states that on the 17th of September, 1888,
the Circuit Court "declined and refused to grant to your petitioner the relief prayed for or any other relief."

EX PARTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

He also insists, in his petition, that the "Circuit Court had
no jurisdiction of his person at the time it made the order
hereinbefore set forth, and possessed no lawful power to make
said order, and that he was entitled to be relieved from his
said imprisonment upon the filing of the petition aforesaid,
and that said order of said court is otherwise illegal and
unwarranted by the law of the land."
That he may be relieved of said detention and imprisonment, he prays that he may be forthwith brought before this
court, upon writ of htabeas coepus, to do, submit to and receive
what the law may require.
The above presents the entire case made by the application
before us.
There can be no dispute either as to the power or duty of this
court in cases of this character. Its power to issue a writ of
hlweas copus for the purpose of inquiring into the cause of
the restraint of the liberty of the person in whose behalf the
writ is asked, is expressly conferred by statute, and extends to
the cases, among others, of prisoners in jail under or by color
of the authority of the United States, and of persons who are
in custody in violation of the Constitution or laws of the
United States. Rev. Stat. § 751, 752, 753. Its general duty
in such cases is also prescribed by statute. Upon complaint
in writing, signed by, and verified by the oath of the person
for whose relief it is intended, setting forth the facts concerning the detention of the party restrained, in whose custody he
is detained, and by virtue of what claim or authority, if
known, it is the duty of the court to "forthwith award a writ
of tabeas co'pus, unless it appears from the petition itself that
the party is not entitled thereto." Rev. Stat. §§ 754, 755.
The writ need not, therefore, be awarded if it appear upon
the showing made by the petitioner, that if brought into
court, and the cause of his commitment inquired into, he
Kearney, 7 Wheat.
would be remanded to prison. E oa'te
38, 45 ; Expoarte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 201 ; Ex pa'te 3illigan,
4 Wall. 2, 11.
It is proper in this connection to say that since the passage
of the act of March 3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat. 437, amending

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 164 of the Revised Statutes so as to give this court jurisdiction, upon appeal, to review the final decisions of the Circuit
Courts of the United States in cases of habeas corpus, when
the petitioner alleges that he is restrained of his liberty in
violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States, the
right to the writ, upon original application to this court, is
not, in every case, an absolute one. In Tales v. Whitney, 114
U. S. 564, it appears that a direct application to this court for
the writ, after a decision adverse to the petitioner in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, was abandoned on
the suggestion that he could bring that decision to this court
for review under the act of 1885 ; and it was brought here
under that statute. In E _parte ]oyall, 11'7 U. S.241, 250,
upon appeal from a decision of a Circuit Court of the United
States refusing to award the writ to one alleging that he was
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the
United States by an order of a State court, in which he stood
indicted for an alleged offence against the laws of such State,
it was held that while the Circuit Court had power to grant
the writ and discharge the accused in advance of his trial
under the indictment, it was not bound to exercise that power
immediately upon application being made for the writ, but
could await the result of the trial, and, in its discretion, as the
special circumstances of the case might require, put the petitioner to his writ of error from the highest court of the State.
In Sawyer's Case, 124 U. S.200, this court entertained an original application for a writ of habeas corous without requiring
the petitioner to apply, in the first instance, to the proper Circuit Court; but, in that case, as in this, the application proceeded upon the ground that the Circuit Court itself had made
the order by which he was alleged to have been deprived of
his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
Nor can there be any dispute as to the power of a Circuit
Court of the United States to punish contempts of its authority. In United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32, it was
held that the courts of the United States, from the very
nature of their institution, possess the power to fine for con-

EX FARTE TERRY.

303

Opinion of the Court.
tempt, imprison for contumacy, enforce the observance of
order, etc. In Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 227, it was
said that "courts of justice are universally acknowledged to
be vested, by their very creation, with power to impose silence,
respect and decorum in their presence, and submission to their
lawful mandates." So, in E x parte JRobinson, 19 Wall. 505,
510: "The power to punish for contempts is inherent in all
courts; its existence is essential to the preservation of order in
judicial proceedings, and to the enlorcement of the judgments,
orders and writs of the courts, and consequently to the due
administration of justice. The moment the courts of the
United States were called into existence and invested with
jurisdiction over any subject, they became possessed of this
power." Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, 94; Story, Constitution, § 1774; Bac. Ab. Courts, E. And, such is the recognized doctrine in reference to the powers of the courts of the
several States. "The summary power to commit and punish
for contempts tending to obstruct or degrade the administration of justice," the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
well said, in Cartwright's Case, 114 Mass. 230, 238, "is inherent in Courts of Chancery and other Supbrior Courts, as
essential to the execution of their powers and to the maintenance of their authority, and is part of the law of the land,
within the meaning of Magna Charta and of the twelfth article of our Declaration of Rights." The Declaration of Rights
here referred to was that which formed part of the constitution of Massachusetts, and contained the prohibition, inserted in most of the American constitutions, against depriving any person of life, liberty, or estate, except by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land. So in Cooper's Case,
32 Vermont, 253,257: " The power to punish for contempt is inherent in the nature and constitution of a court. It is a power
not derived from any statute, but arising from necessity; implied, because it is necessary to the exercise of all other powers." Without such power, it was observed in Easton v. State,
39 Alabama, 551, the administration of the law would be in
continual danger of being thwarted by the lawless. To the
same effect are Tiatson, v. T]illiams, 36 Mississippi, 331, 344;

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Johnston v. Commonwealth, 1 Bibb, 598; Clark v. People,
Breese (1 Illinois), 266; Commonwealth v. Dandridge, 2 Va.
Cases, 408; Eo parteHamilton & &nith, 51 Alabama, 66, 68;
Redman v. State, 28 Indiana, 205, 212; People v. Turner, 1
California, 152, 153; State v. jiorrill,16 Arkansas, 384, 388;
and numerous cases cited in note to Clark v. People,ubi supra,
in 12 Am. Dec. 178. See also Queen v. Lefroy, L. R. 8 Q. B.
134. But this power, so far as the Circuit Courts of the United
States are concerned, is not simply incidental to their general
power to exercise judicial functions; it is expressly recognized,
and the cases in which it may be exercised are defined, by acts
of Congress. They have power, by statute, "to punish, by
fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of the court, contempts
of their authority: Provided, That such power to punish contempts shall not be construed to extend to any cases except
the misbehavior of any person in their presence, or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of said courts in their official
transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any such
officer, or by any party, juror, witness, or other erson, to any
lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree or command of the
said courts." Rev. Stat. § 725; 1 Stat. 83; 4 Stat. 487.
With these observations as to the power and duty of the
courts of the United States, when applied to for writ8 of habeas
copus, we proceed to the consideration of the general question
as to whether the petition in this case shows that the prisoner
is or is not entitled to the writ. The contention of his counsel
is, that the Circuit Court failed to take such steps -as were
necessary to give jurisdiction of the person of the prisoner at
the time the order was made committing him to jail for contempt; and, therefore, that the order was illegal, and the writ
should be awarded. If this position is sound, the conclusion
stated would necessarily follow; for while the writ may not
be used to correct mere errors or irregularities, however
flagrant, committed within the sphere of the authority of the
court, it is an appropriate writ to obtain the discharge of one
imprisoned under the order of a court of the United States
which does not possess jurisdiction of the person or of the sub-

EX PARTE TERRY
Opinion of the Court.

ject-matter. Exparte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Parks,
93 U. S. 18; Exparte Siehold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex parte Rowlan~d, 104 U. S. 604; Exparte Curtis, 106 U. S. 371; In re
Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 485 ; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 221;
Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328, 345; Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S.
713, 718. In this last case it was said that when "a court of
the United States undertakes, by its process of contempt, to
punish a man for refusing to comply with an order which that
court had no authority to make, the order itself, being without
jurisdiction, is void, and the order punishing for the contempt
is equally void. It is well settled now, in the jurisprudence of
this court, that when the proceeding for contempt in such a
case results in imprisonment, this court will, by its writ of
habeas coi2Tus, discharge the prisoner." A judgment which
lies without the jurisdiction of a court, even one of superior
jurisdiction and general authority, is, upon reason and author-

ity, a nullity.
This question, it must be here observed, does not involve an
inquiry into the truth of the specific facts recited in the order
of commitmenit, as constituting the contempt. As the writ of
habeas corpus does not perform the office of a writ of error or.
an appeal, these facts cannot be re-examined or reviewed in
this collateral proceeding. They present a case which, so far
as the subject-matter is concerned, was manifestly within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Notwithstanding the statements made in the petition addressed to the Circuit Court on
thel12th of September, as to what the petitioner did, and as to
what he did not do, on the occasion referred to in the order of
commitment, it must be taken as true, upon the present application, and would be taken as true, upon a return to the writ,
if one were awarded, that, on the 3d of September, 1888, Mrs.
Terry was guilty of misbehavior in the presence of the judges
of the Circuit Court, while they were engaged in the hearing
and determination of causes pending before it; that the court
thereupon ordered the marshal to remove her from the courtroom; that the petitioner, an attorney, and, therefore, an officer of the court, resisted the enforcement of the order by
beating the marshal, and by assaulting him with a deadly
VOL. cxxvni-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

weapon, with intent to obstruct the administration of justice
and the execution of said order. It must also be taken as
true, upon the present application, that what the petitioner
characterizes as self-defence against an assault of the marshal,
but which the Circuit Court in its order of commitment expressly finds, upon its personal view of the facts, was violence
and misconduct upon his part, occurred in its immediate presence; for, if it were competent in this proceeding for the petitioner to contradict that fact, this has not been done. While
in his petition to this court he disputes the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Cohrt of his person at the time he was imprisoned, his
petition addressed to that court on the 12th of September, and
made part of the present application, makes no question as to
the alleged contempt having been committed in the presence
of the Circuit Court, and only puts in issue the principal facts
recited in the order of commitment as constituting the contempt for which he was punished. Those facts necessarily entered into the inquiry by the Circuit Court as to whether the prisoner was or was not guilty of contempt, and this court cannot,
in this proceeding, in virtue of any power conferred upon it by
existing legislation, go behind the determination of them by
that court. It can deal only with such defects in the proceedings as render them, not simply erroneous or irregular, but absolutely void. ,Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 511; .e
parte .fearney, 7 Wheat. 38, 43.
What, then, are the grounds upon which the petitioner
claims that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to make
the order committing him to jail? They are: 1. That the
order was made in his absence; 2. That it was made without
his having had any previous notice of the intention of the court
to take any steps whatever in relation to the matters referred
to in the order; 3. That it was made without giving him any
opportunity of being first heard in defence of the charges
therein made against him.
The second and third of these grounds may be dismissed
as immaterial in any inquiry this court is at liberty, upon this
original application, to make. For, upon the facts recited in
the order of September 3, showing a clear case of contempt

EX PARTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

committed in the face of the Circuit Court, which tended to
destroy its authority, and, by violent methods, to embarrass
and obstruct its business, the petitioner was not entitled, of
absolute right, either to a regular trial of the question of contempt, or to notice by rule of the court's intention to proceed
against him, or to opportunity to make formal answer to the
charges contained in the order of commitment. It is undoubtedly a general rule in all actions, whether prosecuted by
private parties, or by the government, that is, in civil and
criminal cases, that "a sentence of a court pronounced against
a party without hearing him, or giving him an opportunity to
be heard, is not a judicial determination of his rights, and is
not entitled to respect in any other tribunal." TFindsor v.
lfe lTeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 277. But there is another rule, of
almost immemorial antiquity, and universally acknowledged,
which is equally vital to personal liberty and to the preservation of organized society, because upon its recognition and
enforcement depend the existence and authority of the tribunals established to protect the rights of the citizen, whether
of life, liberty, or property, and whether assailed by the illegal
acts of the government or by the lawlessness or violence of
individuals. It has relation to the class of contempts which,
being committed in the face of a court, imply a purpose to
destroy or impair its authority, to obstruct the transaction of
its business, or to insult or intimidate those charged with the
duty of administering the law. Blackstone thus states the
rule: "If the contempt be committed in the face of the court,
the offender may be instantly apprehended and imprisoned, at
the discretion of the judges, without any further proof or
examination. But in matters that arise at a distance, and
of which the court cannot have so perfect a knowledge, unless
by the confession of the party or the testimony of others, if
the judges upon affidavit see sufficient ground to suspect that
a contempt has been committed, they either make a rule on
the suspected party to show cause why an attachment should
not issue against him; or, in very flagrant instances of contempt, the attachment issues in the first instance, as it also does
if no sufficient cause be shown to discharge, and thereupon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

court confirms and makes absolute the original rule."

4 Bi.

Com. 286. In Bacon's Abridgment, title Courts, E, it is laid
down that "every court of record, as incident to it, may enjoin
the people to keep silence, under a pain, and impose reasonable fines, not only on such as shall be convicted before them
of any crime on a formal prosecution, but also on all such
as shall be guilty of any contempt in the face of the court, as
by giving opprobrious language to the judge, or obstinately
refusing to do their duty as officers of the court, and immediately 'order them into custody." It is utterly impossible,
said Abbott, 0. J., in Rex v. Davidson, 4 B. & Ald. 329, 333,
"that the law of the land can be properly administered if
those who are charged with the duty of administering it have
not power to prevent instances of indeccrum from occurring
in their own presence. That power has been vested in the
judges, not for their personal protection, but for that of the
public. And a judge will depart from his bounden duty if
he forbears to use it when occasions arise which call for its
exercise."
To the same effect are the adjudications by the courts of
this country. In State v. WoodAt, 5 Iredell's Law, 199, where
a person was fined for a contempt committed in the presence
of the court, it was said: "The power to commit or fine for
contempt is essential to the existence of every court. Business
cannot be conducted unless the court can suppress disturbances
and the only means of doing that is by immediate punishment.
A breach of the peace in facie orice is a direct disturbance
and a palpable contempt of the authority of the court. It is
a case that does not admit of delay, and the court would be
without dignity that did not punish it promptly and without
trial. Necessarily there can be no inquiry de novo in another
court, as to the truth of the fact. There is no mode provided
for conducting such an inquiry. There is no prosecution, no
plea, nor issue upon which there can be a trial." So in Mtte
v. State, 36 Indiana, 311: "When the contempt is committed
in the presence of the court, and the court acts upon view and
without trial and inflicts the punishment, there will be no
charge, no plea, no issue and no trial; and the record that

EX PARTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

shows the punishment will also show the offence, and the fact
that the court had found the party guilty of the contempt;
on appeal to this court any fact found by the court below
would be taken as true, and every intendment would be made
in favor of the action of the court." Again, in Ex parte
WM-ght, 65 Indiana, 504, 508, the court after observing that a
direct contempt is an open insult in the face of the court to
the persons of the judges while presiding, or a resistance to
its powers in their presence, said: "For a direct contempt
the offender may be punished instantly by arrest and fine or
imprisonment, upon no further proof or examination than
what is known to the judges by their senses of seeing, hearing,
etc." 4 Stephens Com. Bk. 6, c. 15; Tidd's Practice, 9th ed.
London, 1828, 419-80; Exam pate Hamilton & Smith, 51 Alabama, 66, 68; People v. Twrner, 1 California, 152, 155.
It is true, as counsel suggest, that the power which the
court has of instantly punishing, without further proof or examination, contempts committed in its presence, is one that
may be abused and may sometimes be exercised hastily or
arbitrarily. But that is not an argument to disprove either
its existence, or the necessity of its being lodged in the courts.
That power cannot be denied them without inviting or causing such obstruction to the orderly and impartial administration of justice as would endanger the rights and safety of the
entire community. What was said in Ex ya~te .earney, 7
Wheat. 38, 45, may be here repeated: "Wherever power is
lodged it may be abused. But this forms no solid objection
against its exercise. Confidence must be reposed somewhere;
and if there should be an abuse, it will be a public grievance,
for which a remedy may be applied by the legislature, and is
not to be devised by courts of justice."
It results from what has been said that it was competent
for the Circuit Court, immediately upon the commission, in its
presence, of the contempt recited in the order of September 3,
to proceed upon its own knowledge of the facts, and punish
the offender, without further proof, and without issue or trial
in any form. It was not bound to hear any explanation of his
motives, if it was satisfied, and we must conclusively presume,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

from the/record before us, that it was satisfied, from what
occurred under its own eye and within its hearing, that the
ends of justice demanded immediate action, and that no explanation could mitigate his offence or disprove the fact that
he had committed such contempt of its authority and dignity
as deserved instant punishment. Whether the facts justified
such punishment was for that court to determine under its
solemn responsibility to do justice, and to maintain its own
dignity and authority. In e Cks, 22 Wall. 157, 168. Its
conclusion upon such facts, we repeat, is not, under the statutes regulating the jurisdiction of this court, open to inquiry
or review in this collateral proceeding. If we were to indulge
in any presumption as to what actually occurred when the
marshal proceeded in the execution of the order to remove
Mrs. Terry from the court-room, we must presume that the
Circuit Court fully considered the statements contained in the
petition of September 12, and knowing them to be inaccurate
or untrue, refused to set aside or modify its previous order of
commitment. Its action in that regard cannot be revised or
annulled by this court upon an original application for habeas
Co):9us.
But it is contended that the order of September 3 was void,
because, as alleged in the present application for the writ of
habeas colm~s, it was made in the "absence" of the petitioner.
In considering this suggestion, it must not be forgotten that
the order of imprisonment shows, and the fact is not asserted
to be otherwise, that it was made and entered on the same
day on which, and, presumably, at the same session of the
court at which, the contempt was committed; and there is no
claim that any more time intervened between the commission
of the contempt, and the making of the order, than was reasonably required to prepare and enter in due form such an
order as the court, upon consideration, deemed proper or
necessary. Indeed, the petition of September 12, made part
of the present application, shows that the petitioner, after his
personal conflict with the marshal in the presence of the
judges, voluntarily left the court-room, and with drawn knife
forced his way into another room in the same building, occu-

EX PAlaTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

pied by the marshal, and to which, we presume, the latter, in
executing the order above referred to, had removed Ars.
Terry. There is no pretence that the petitioner left the building in which the court was held before the order of commitment was passed.
The precise question, therefore, to be now determined, is
whether the retirement of the petitioner from the court-room,
into another room of the same building, after he had been
guilty of misbehavior in the presence of the court, and had
violently obstructed the execution of its lawful order, defeated
the jurisdiction which it possessed, at the moment the contempt was committed, to order his imiaediate imprisonment
without other proof than that supplied by its actual knowledge and view of the facts, and without examination or trial
in any form? In our judgment this question must be answered
in the negative. Jurisdiction of the person of the petitioner
attached instantly upon the contempt being committed in the
presence of the court. That jurisdiction was neither surrendered nor lost by delay on the part of the Circuit Court in
exercising its power to proceed, without notice and proof, and
upon its own view of what occurred, to immediate punishment.
The departure of the petitioner from the court-room to another room, near by, in the same building, was his voluntary
act. And his departure, without making some apology for,
or explanation of, his conduct, might justly be held to aggravate his offence, and to make it plain that, consistently with
the public interests, there should be no delay, upon the part
of the court, in exerting its power to punish.
If, in order to avoid pufiishment, he had absconded or fled
from the building, immediately after his conflict with the
marshal, the court, in its discretion, and as the circumstances
rendered proper, could have ordered process for his arrest and
given him an opportunity, before sending him to jail, to answer the charge of having committed a contempt. But in such
a case the failure to order his arrest, and to give him such
opportunity of defence, would not affect its power to inflict
instant punishment. Jurisdiction to inflict such punishment
having attached while he was in the presence of the court, it

OCTOBER TERM1, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

would not have been defeated or lost by his flight and voluntary absence. Upon this point the decision in .Ifiddlebrookv.
State, 43 Connecticut, 251, 268, is instructive. That was a
case of contempt committed by a gross assault upon another
in open court. The offender immediately left the court-house
and the State. The court made reasonable efforts to procure
his personal attendance, and, those failing, a judgment was
entered in his absence, sentencing him to pay a fine and to be
imprisoned for contempt of court. One of the questions presented for determination was whether there was jurisdiction
of the person of the absent offender. The court said: "The offence was intentionalry committed in the presence of the court.
When the first blow was struck, that instant the contempt
was complete, and jurisdiction attached. It did not depend
upon the arrest of the offender, nor upon his being in actual
custody, nor even upon his remaining in the presence of the
court. When the offence was committed he was in the presence and, constructively, at least, in the power of the court.
He may by flight escape merited punishment; but that cannot otherwise affect the right or the power of the court.
Before the court could exert its power, the offender, taking advantage of the confusion, absented himself and went beyond
the reach of the court; but, nevertheless, the jurisdiction remained, and it was competent for the court to take such
action as might be deemed advisable, leaving the action to be
enforced and the sentence carried into execution whenever
there might be an opportunity to do so. If it was necessary
that the judgment should be preceded by a trial, and the facts
found upon a judicial hearing as with ordinary criminal cases,
it would be otherwise. But in this proceeding nothing of the
kind was required. The judicial eye witnessed the act and
the judicial mind comprehended all the circumstances of aggravation, provocation, or mitigation; and the fact being thus
judicially established, it only remained for the judicial arm
to inflict proper punishment." It is true that the present
case differs from the one just cited in that the offender did not
attempt by flight to escape punishment for his offence. But
that circumstance could not affect the power of the Circuit

EX PARTE TERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

Court, without trial or.further proof, to inflict instant punishment upon the petitioner for the contempt committed in its
presence. It was within the discretion of that court, whose
dignity he had insulted, and whose authority he had openly
defied, to determine whether it should, upon its own view of
what occurred, proceed at once to punish him, or postpone
action until he was arrested upon process, brought back into
its presence, and permitted to make defence. Any abuse of
that discretion would be at most an irregularity or error, not
affecting the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
We have not overlooked the earnest contetition of petitioner's counsel that the Circuit Court, in disregard of the
fundamental principles of Magna Charta, in the absence of the
accused, and without giving him any notice of the accusation
against him, or any opportunity to be heard, proceeded "to
accuse, to try and to pronounce judgment, and to order him
to be imprisoned; this, for an alleged offence committed at a
time preceding, and separated from, the commencement of his
prosecution." We have seen that it is a settled doctrine in
the jurisprudence both of England and of this country, never
supposed to be in conflict with the liberty of the citizen, that
for direct contempts committed in the face of the court, at
least one of superior jurisdiction, the offender may, in its
discretion, be instantly apprehended and immediately imprisoned, without trial or issue, and without other proof than its
actual knowledge of what occurred; and that, according to
an unbroken chain of authorities, reaamg back to the earliest
times, such power, although arbitrary m its nature and liable
to abuse, is absolutely essential to zne protection of the courts
in the discharge of their functions. Without it, judicial tribunals would be at the mercy of the disorderly and violent,
who respect neither the laws enacted for the vindication of
public and private rights, nor the officers charged with the
duty of administering them. To say, in case of a contempt
such as is recited in the order below, that the offender was accused, tried, adjudged to be guilty and imprisoned, without
previous notice of the accusation against him and without an
opportunity to be heard, is nothing more than an argument or

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

protest against investing any court, ho.wever exalted, or however extensive its general jurisdiction, with the power of proceeding summarily, without further proof or trial, for direct
contempts committed in its presence.
NTor, in our judgment, is it an accurate characterization of
the present case to say that the petitioner's offence was committed "at a time preceding, and separated from, the commencement of his prosecution." His misbehavior in the presence of the court, his voluntary departure from the courtroom without apology for the indignity he put upon the court,
his going a few steps, and under the circumstances detailed by
him, into the marshal's room in the same building where the
court was held, and the making of the order of the commitment, took place, substantially, on the same occasion, and constituted, in legal effect, one continuous complete transaction,
occurring on the same day, and at the same session of the
court. The jurisdiction, therefore, of the Circuit Court to
enter an order for the offender's arrest and imprisonment was
as full and complete as when he was in the court-room in the
immediate presence of the judges.
Whether the Circuit Court would have had the power at a
subsequent term, or at a subsequent day of the same term, to
order his arrest and imprisonment for the contempt, without
first causing him to be brought into its presence, or without
making reasonable efforts by rule or attachment to bring him
into court, and giving him an opportunity to be heard before
being fined and imprisoned, is a question not necessary to be
considered on the present hearing.
The acpplicationfor the worit of habeas corpus is denied.
MR. JUsTIcE

FIELD took no part in the decision of this case.

