WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

195

Statement of the Case.

CENTRAL BANK OF WASHINGTON v. HUME.
HUME v. CENTRAL BANK OF WASHINGTON.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLU3MIA.
NoS. 29, 0.

Argued October 17, 18,1888. -Decided

November 12, 1888.

It is a general rule that a life-insurance policy, and the money to become
due under it, belong the moment it is issued to the person named in it as
beneficiary, and that there is no power in the person procuring the insurance, by any act of his, by deed or will, to transfer to any other person
the interest of the person named.
A married man may rightfully devote a moderate portion of his earnings to
insure his life, and thus make reasonable provision for his family after his
decease, without being thereby held to intend to hinder, delay, or defraud
his creditors, provided no such fraudulent intent is shown to exist, ot
must be necessarily inferred from the surrounding circumstances.
The payment of premiums to a life insurance company by a married man
residing in the District of Columbia, who is insolvent at the times of the
payments, in order to effect and keep alive a policy of insurance upon his
own life, made by his wife for the benefit of herself and their children;
is not necessarily a fraudulent transfer of his property with intent to
hinder, delay and defraud creditors within the meaning of 13 Eliz. c. 5;
and in the absence of specific circumstances showing a fraudulent intents
his creditors, after his decease, will have no interest in the policy.
In order to maintain an action on behalf of creditors of a deceased person
against a life insurance company, to recover back premiums alleged to
have been fraudulently paid by the decedent while insolvent to the company in order to make provision for his wife and children, it must be
alleged and proved that the company participated in the fraud.

ON the 23d of April, 1872, in consideration of an annual premium of $230.89, the Life Insurance Company of Virginia
issued at Fetersburgh, in that Commonwealth, a policy of insurance on the life of Thomas L. Hume of Washington, D. C.,
for the term of his natural life, in the sum of $10,000, for the
sole use and benefit of his wife, Annie Graham Hume and his
children, payment to be made to them, their heirs, executors,
or assigns, at Petersburgh, Virginia.
The charter of the company provided as follows: "Any
policy of insurance issued by the Life Insurance Company of
Virginia on the life of any person, expressed to be for the
'benefit of any married woman, whether the same be effected

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

originally by herself ' her husband, or by any other person,
or whether the premiums thereafter be paid by her herself or
her husband or any other person as aforesaid, shall enure for her
sole and separate use and benefit and that of her or her husband's
children, if any, as may be expressed in said policy, and shall
be held by her free from the control or claim of her husband
or his creditors, or of the person effecting the same and his
creditors." (Section. 7.)
The application for this policy was made on behalf of the
wife and children by Thomas L. Hume, who signed the same
for them.
The premium of $230.89 was reduced by annual dividends
of $34.71 to $196.18, which sum was regularly paid on the 23d
of April, 1872, and each year thereafter, up to and including
the 23d of April, 1881.
On the 28th of March, 1880, the Hartford Life and Annuity
Company of Hartford, Connecticut, issued five certificates of
insurance upon the life of Thomas L. Hume, of $1000 each,
payable at Hartford to his wife Annie G. Hume, if living, but
otherwise to his legal representatives. Upon each of these
certificates a premium of ten dollars was paid upon their issuance, amounting in all to $50, and thereafter certain other
sums, amounting at the time of the death of Hume to $41.25.
On the 17th of February, 1881, the Maryland Life Insurance Company of Baltimore issued, at Baltimore, a policy of
insurance upon the life of Thomas L. Hume, in the sum of
$10,000, for the term of his natural life, payable in the city of
Baltimore to "the said insured, Annie G. Hume, for her sole
use, her executors, administrators, or assigns;" the said policy
being issued, as it recites on its face, in consideration of the
sum of $337.20 to them duly paid by said Annie G. Hume,
and of an annual premium of the same amount to be paid each
year during the continuance of the policy. The application
for this policy was signed "Annie G. Hume, by Thomas L.
Hume," as is a recognized usage in such applications and in
accordance with instructions to that effect printed upon the
policy.
The charter of the Maryland Life Insurance Company pro-

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HlUME.

197

Statement of the Case.

vides as follows: "Section 17. That it shall be lawful for any
married woman, by herself or in her name or in the name of
any third person, with his consent, as her trustee, to be caused
to be insured in said company, for her sole use, the ]ife of her
husband, for any definite period or for the term of his natural
life, and in case of her surviving her husband the sum or net
amount of the insurance becoming due and payable by the
terms of the insurance shall be payable to her to and for her
own use, free from the claims of the representatives of her husband or of any of his creditors. In case of the death of the
wife before the decease of the husband, the amount cf the insurance may be made payable, after the death of the husband,
to her children, or, if under age, to their guardian, for their
use; in the event of there being no children, she may have
power to devise, and if dying intestate, then to go [to] the
next of kin."
The directions printed on the margin of the policy called
especial attention to the provisions of the charter upon this
subject, an extract from which was printed on the fourth page
of the application. The amount of premium paid on this
policy was $242.26, a loan having been deducted from the full
premium of $337.20.
On the 13th of June, 1881, the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company of Hartford, in consideration of an annual
premium of $350.30, to be paid before the day of its date,
issued a policy of insurance upon the life of Thomas L. Hlume,
in the sum of $10,000, for the term of his natural life, payable
at Hartford, to Annie G. Hlume and her children by him, or
their legal representatives. The application for this policy
was signed "Annie G. flume, by Thomas L. fHume." It was
expressly provided, as part of the contract, that the policy was
issued and delivered at Hartford, in the State of Connecticut,
and was "to be in all respects construed and determined in
accordance with the laws of that State."
The "statute of Connecticut respecting policies of insurance
issued for the benefit of married women" was printed upon
the policy under that heading, and is as follows: "Any policy
of life insurance expressed to be for the benefit of a married

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

woman, or assigned to her or in trust for her, shall inure to
her separate use, or, in case of her decease before payment, to
the use of her children or of her husband's children, as may
be provided in such policy: P'ovided, That, if the annual premium on such policy shall exceed three hundred dollars, the
amount of such excess, with interest, shall inure to the benefit
of the creditors of the person paying the premiums; but if she
shall die before the person insured, leaving no children of herself or husband, the policy shall become the property of the
person who has paid the premiums, unless otherwise provided
in such policy;" and this extract from the statute was printed
upon the policy and attention directed thereto. From the
$350.30 premium the sum of $105 was deducted, to be
charged against the policy in accordance with its terms, with
interest, and $245.30 was therefore the sum paid.
The American Life Insurance and Trust Company of Philadelphia, had also issued a policy in the sum of $5000 on the
life of Hume, payable to himself or his personal representatives, and this was collected by his administrators.
Thomas L. Hume died at Washington on the 23d of October, 1881, insolvent, his widow, Annie G. Hume, and six minor
children surviving him.
November 2d, 1881, the Central National Bank of Washington, as the holder of certain promissory notes of Thomas
L. Hume, amounting to several thousand dollars, filed a bill in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against Mrs.
fHume and the Maryland Life Insurance Company, the case
being numbered 7906, alleging that the policy issued by the
latter was procured while Hume was insolvent; that Hume
paid the premium of $242.26 without complainant's knowledge
or consent, and for the purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding the complainant and his other creditors; and praying
'for a restraining order on the insurance company from paying
to, and Mrs. Hume from receiving, either for herself or children, the amount due pending the suit, and "that the amount
of the said insurance policy may be decreed to be assets of
said Thomas L. Hume applicable to the payment of debts
.owing by him at his death," etc. The temporary injunction
was granted.

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

199

Statement of the Case.

On the 12th of November, the insurance company filed its
answer to the effect that Mrs. Hume obtained the insurance in
her own name, and was entitled under the policy to the
amount thereof, and setting up and relying upon the 17th
section of its charter, quoted above. Mrs. Hlume answered,
November 16, declaring that she applied for and procured the
policy in question, and that it was not procured with fraudulent intent; that the estate of her father, A. I. Pickrell, who
died in 1879, was the largest creditor of Hume's estate; that
she is her father's residuary legatee; that uhe amount of the
policy was intended not only to provide for her, but also to
secure her against loss; that her mother had furnished Hlume
with about a thousand dollars annually to be used for her best
interests and that of his wife and children; and that the premium paid on the policy in question and those paid on other
policies was and were paid out of money belonging to her
father's estate, or out of the money of her mother applied as
directed and requested by the latter.
Benjamin U. Keyser; receiver, holding unpaid notes of
Hume, was allowed, by order of court, November 16, 1881, to
intervene as cocomplainant in the cause.
R. Ross Perry and Reginald Fendall were appointed, November 26, 1881, Hume's administrators.
On January 23, 1882, the administrators filed three bills
(and obtained injunctions) against Mrs. Hume and each of the
other insurance companies, being cases numbered 8011, 8012
and 8013, attacking each of the policies (except the American)
as a fraudulent transfer by an insolvent of assets belonging to
his creditors.
The answers of Mrs. flume were substantially the same
rnutatis mvtandis as above given, and so were the answers of
the Connecticut Mutual and the Virginia Life, the former
pleading the statute of Connecticut as part of its policy and
the latter the 7th section of its charter.
The Hartford Life and Annuity Company did not answer,
and the bill to which it was a party defendant was taken pro
confe8so.a
The administrators were, by order of court, January 2, 1883,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

admitted parties defendant to said first case numbered 7906,
and cases numbered 8011, 8012 and 8013 were consolidated
with that case.
January 4, 1883, the court entered a decretal order, dissolving the restraining order in original cause numbered 8012,
and directing the Virginia Insurance Company to pay the
amount due upon its policy into court, and the clerk of the
court to pay the same over to Mrs. Hume, for her own benefit
and as guardian of her children, (which was done accordingly,)
and continuing the injunctions in original causes 8011, 8013
and 7906, but ordering the other insurance companies to pay
the amounts due into the registry of the court.
By order of court, January 30, 1883, the Farmers' and
Mechanics' National Bank of Georgetown, which had proved
up a large claim against Hume's estate, was allowed to intervene in original cause No. 7906 as a cocomplainant; and
March 19, 1883, George W. Cochran, a creditor, was by like
order allowed to intervene as cocomplainant in the consolidated cases.
Replications were filed and testimony taken'on both sides.
The evidence tends to show that Hume's financial condition
as early as 1874 was such that if called upon to respond on
the instant, he could not have met his liabilities, and that this
condition grew gradually worse until it culminated in irretrievable ruin in the fall of 1881 ; but it also indicates that
for several years, and up to October 21st, 1881, two days before his death, he was a partner in a going concern, apparently
of capital and credit; that he had a considerable amount of
real estate, though most of it was heavily encumbered; that
he was an active business man, not personally extravagant;
and that he was, for two years prior to October, in receipt
of moneys from his wife's mother, who had an income from
her separate property.
He seems to have received from Mrs. Pickrell, or the estate
of Pickrell, his wife's father, of which Mrs. Hume was the
residuary legatee, over six thousand dollars in 1879, over
three thousand dollars in 1880, and over seventeen hundred
dollars in 1881.

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

201

Statement of the Csse.
Mrs. Pickrell's fixed income was one thousand dollars a year
from rents of her own property, which, after the death of her
husband in May, 1879, was regularly paid over to Mr. fHume.
She testifies that she told :ume that "he could use all that I
[she] had for his own and his family's benefit, and that he
could use it for anything he thought best;" that she had out
of it herself from $200 to $250 a year from the death of
Pickrell, in May, 1879, to that of fHume in October, 1881, and
that before his death Mr. fHume informed his wife and herself
that he had insured his life for Mrs. flume's benefit, but did
not state where the premium money came from.
Blackford, agent for the Maryland company, testified, under
objection, that flume told him in February, 1881, that certain
means had been placed in his hands,, to be invested for his
wife and children, and he had concluded to take $10,000
in Blackford's agency, and should, some months later, take
$10,000 in the Connecticut Mutual. He accordingly took the
$10,000 in the Maryland, and subsequently, during the summer, informed Blackford that he had obtained the insurance
in the Connecticut Mutual.
Evidence was also adduced that l[r. fHume was largely indebted to Pickrell's estate, by reason of indorsements of his
paper by Pickrell, and the use by him in raising money of
securities belonging to the latter, and that said estate is involved in litigation and its ultimate value problematical.
The causes were ordered to be heard in the first instance
at a general term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, which court, after argument, on the fifth day of
ITanuary, 1885, decreed that the administrators should recover
all sums paid by Thomas L. fHume as premiums on all said
policies, including those on the Virginia policy from 1874, and
that after deducting said premiums the residue of the money
paid into court (being that received from the Maryland and
the Connecticut Mutual) be paid to Mrs. flume individually
or as guardian for herself and children, and that the Hartford
Life and Annuity Company pay over to her the amount due
on the certificates issued by it.
From this decree the said Central lNational Bank, Benjamin

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Mrs. Hume.

U. Keyser, the Farmers' and Mechanics' National Bank of
Georgetown, George W. Cochran, and the administrators, as
well as Mrs. Hume, appealed to this court, and the cause came
on to be heard here upcn these cross-appeals.
.Mr.R. Ross Perry,with whom was Mr. Reginald Fendall
on the brief for the administrators, to the point that an insolvent debtor cannot by insuring his life with money of his
creditors secure the payment of the proceeds of the insurance
to his wife and children, cited: Sims v. Thomas, 12 Ad. & El.
536; _Horcutt v. Dodd, 1 Cr. & Ph. 100; Bayard v. Hoffman,
4 Johns. Ch. 450; Schondler v. IFace, 1 Campb. 487; Graves
v. Do phin, 1 Sim. 66; Brandon v. Robinson, 18 Yes. 428;
Green v. Spicer, 1 Russ. & Myl. 395; Pieroy v. Roberts, 1 iMyl.
& K. 4; S£ca'f v. Soulby, 1 Mfacn. & Gord. 364-; Penhall v.
Elwin, 1 Sm. & Gif. 258, 267; French v. French,6 De G., M.
& G. 95; Jenkym v. Vaughan, 3 Drewry, 419; .Nrealev. Day,
28 L. J. (N. S.) Ch. 45; Stokoe v. Cowan, 29 Beavan, 637;
Freeman v. Pope, L. R. 5 Ch. 538; Taylor v. Coenen, 1 Ch. D.
636; Rison v. Wilkerson, 3 Sneed, 565; Catchings v. .Manlove,
39 Mississippi, 655; Appeal of Elliott's Eecutors, 50 Penn.
St. 75; S. 0. 88 Am. Dec. 525; Anderson's E tate, Rlay's and
Kerr'sAppeals, 85 Penn. St. 202; Stokes v. Coffey, 8 Bush, 533;
Thompson v. Cundif, 11 Bush, 567; iathaway v. Sherman,
61 -Maine, 466, 475; Anthracite Ins. Co. v. Sears, 109 Mass.
383; Pence v. -Makepeace, 65 Indiana, 345, 360; Stigler's Executor v. Stigler, 77 Virginia, 163; Rearing'sSuccession, 26 La.
Ann. 326.
-Mr.Walter D. Davidge also filed a separate brief on behalf
of the administrators and creditors.
X. Enoch Totten, with whom was X!. J. _toldsworth
Gordon on the brief for Mrs. Hume, to the point that the purchase of a policy of insurance issued on the life of a husband,
who is insolvent, payable to the wife or to the wife and children, is not fraudulent as to creditors, cited: Bank v. HTume, 3
Mackey, 360, 384; Succession of Constance hfearing, 26 La.
Ann. 326; Goodrich v. Teat, 3 Colorado, 408; Elliott's Ap-

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

203

Opinion of the Court.

peal, 50 Penn. St. 75; S. C. 88 Am. Dec. 525; Pence v. Hake.peace, 65 Indiana, 345 ; .EJtna Bank v. United States Life Ins.
Co., 24 Fed. Rep. .770; Stigler v. Stigler, 77 Virginia, 163;
Woodworth v. Sweet, 51 N. Y. 8; Syracuse Chilled Plough
Co. v. WVing, 85 N. Y. 421; Hyde v. Powell, 47 Aich. 156;
Smith v. Beiberling, 35 Fed. Rep. 677; Anderson's Appeal,
85 Penn. St. 202; 3fcCutkeon's Appeal, 99 Penn. St. 133;
T]iyenpson v. Cundif, 11 Bush, 567.
Mr. CH=F JUSTCE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
No appeal was prosecuted from the decree of January 4,
1883, directing the amount due upon the policy issued by the
Life Insurance Company of Virginia to be paid over to :Mrs.
Hume for her own benefit and as guardian of her children,
nor is any error now assigned to the actioh of the court in
that regard. Indeed, it is conceded by counsel for the complainants, that this contract was perfectly valid as against the
world, but it is insisted that, assuming the proof to establish
the insolvency of Hlume in 1874 and thenceforward, the premiums paid in that and the subsequent years on this policy
belonged in equity to the creditors, and that they were entitled to a decree therefor as well as for the amount of the
Maryland and Connecticut policies and the premiums paid
thereon.
It is not denied that the contract of the Maryland Insurance
Company was directly between that company and Mrs. Hume,
and this is, in our judgment, true of that of the Connecticut
Mutual, while the Hartford company's certificates were payable to her, if living.
Mr. Hume having been insolvent at the time the insurance was affected, and having paid the premiums himself, it is
argued that these policies were within the provisions of 13
Elizabeth, c. 5, and inure to the benefit of his creditors as
equivalent to transfers of property with intent to hinder, delay
and defraud. The object of the statute of Elizabeth was to
prevent debtors from dealing with their property in any way
to the prejudice of their creditors; but dealing with that

OCTOBER TERM,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

which creditors, irrespective of such dealing, could not have
touched, is within neither the letter nor the spirit of the statute. In the view of the law, credit is ex tended in reliance
upon the evidence of the ability of, the debtor to pay, and in
confidence that his possessions will not be diminished to the
prejudice of those who trust him. This reliance is disappointed, and this confidence abused, if he divests himself of his
property by giving it away after he has obtained credit. And
where a person has taken out policies of insurance upon his
life for the benefit of his estate, it has been frequently held
that, as against creditors, his assignment, when insolvent, of
such policies, to or for the benefit of wife and children, or
either, constitutes a fraudulent transfer of assets within the
statute, and this, even though the debtor may have had no
deliberate intention of depriving his creditors of a fund to
which they were bntitled, because his act has in point of fact
withdrawn such a fund from them, and dealt with it by way
of bounty. .F]reeman v. Poe,L. R. 9 Eq. 206; S. C. L. R.
5 Oh. 538. The rule stands upon precisely the same ground
as any other disposition of his property by the debtor. The
defect of the disposition is that it removes the property of the
debtor out of the reach of his creditors. Cornish v. Clark, L.
R. 14 Eq. 184, 189.
But the rule applies only to that which the debtor could
have made available for payment of his debts. For instance,
the exercise of a general power of appointment might be
fraudulent and void under the statute, but not the exercise of
a limited or exclusive power, because, in the latter case, the
debtor never had any interest in the property himself which
could have been available to a creditor, or by which he could
have obtained credit. May on Fraudulent Conveyances, 33.
It is true that creditors can obtain relief in respect to ' fraudulent conveyance where the grantor cannot, but that relief only
restores the subjection of the debtor's property to the payment
of his indebtedness as it existed prior to the conveyance.
A person has an insurable interest in his own life for the
benefit of his estate. The contract affords no compensation
to him, but to his representatives. So the creditor has an in-

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUM E.

205

Opinion of the Court.

surable interest in the debtor's life, and can protect himself
accordingly, if he so chooses. Marine and fire insurance is
considered as strictly an indemnity; but while this is not so as
to life insurance, which is simply a contract, so far as the
company is concerned, to pay a certain sum of money upon
the occurrence of an event which is sure at some time to happen, in consideration of the payment of the premiums as stipulated, nevertheless the contract is also a contract of indemnity.
If the creditor insures the life of his debtor he is thereby
indemnified against the loss of his debt by the death of the
debtor before payment; yet, if the creditor keeps up the premiums, and his debt is paid before the debtor's death, he may
still recover upon the contract, which was valid when made,
and which the insurance company is bound to pay according
to its terms; but if the debtor obtains the insurance on the
insurable interest of the creditor, and pays the premiums himself, and the debt is extinguished before the insurance falls in,
then the proceeds would go to the estate of the debtor. Knox
v. Turner, L. R. 9 Eq. 155.
The wife and children have an insurable interest in the life
of the husband and father, and if insurance thereon be taken
out by him and he pays the premiums and survives them, it
might be reasonably claimed in the absence of a statutory provision to the contrary, that the policy would inure to his estate.
In Continental 1ife rno. Co. v. Palmer, 42 Conn. 60, 64,
the wife insured the life of the husband, the amount insured to
be payable to her if she survived him, if not, to her children.
The wife and one son died prior to the husband, the son leaving a son surviving. The court held that under the provisions
of the statute of that State, the policy being made payable to
the wife and children, the children immediately took such a
vested interest in the policy, that the grandson was entitled to
his father's share, the wife having died before the husband,
but that in the absence of the statute "it would have been a
fund in the hands of his representatives for the benefit of
creditors, provided the premiums had been paid by him." So
in the case of Anderson's -Estate, Blay's and lerr'8s Appeal,
85 Penn. St. 202, A. insured his life in favor of his wife, who

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

died intestate in his lifetime, leaving an only child. A. died
intestate and insolvent, the child surviving, and the court held
that the proceeds of the policy belonged to the wife's estate,
and, under the intestate laws, was to be distributed share and
share alike between her child and her husband's estate, notwithstanding under a prior statute, life insurance taken out for
the wife vested in her free from the claims of the husband's
creditors. But if the wife had survived she would have taken
the entire proceeds.
We think it cannot be doubted that in the instance of contracts of insurance with a wife or children, or both, upon their
insurable interest in the life of the husband or father, the
latter, while they are living, can exercise no power of disposition over the same without their consent, nor has he any
interest therein of which he can avail himself, nor upon his
death have his personal representatives or his creditors any
interest in the proceeds of such contracts which belong to the
beneficiaries to whom they are payable.
It is indeed the general rule that a policy, and the money to
become due under it, belong, the moment it is issued, to the
person or persons named in it as the beneficiary or beneficiaries, and that there is no power in the person procuring the
insurance by any act of his, by deed or by will, to transfer to
any other person the interest of the person named. Bliss on
Life Insurance, 2d ed. p. 517; Glanz v. Gloeekler, 10 Appellate Court Illinois, 484, per McAllister, J.; S. (2 104 Illinois,
573; TFilburn v. Wilburm, 83 Indiana, 55; Ricker v. Charter
Oak _ns. Co., 27 Minnesota, 193; Charter Oak Life Ins. Co.
v. Brant, 47 Missouri, 419; Gould v. Emerson, 99 Mass. 154;
1.nickerbocker Life Ins. Co. v. Weitz, 99 Mass. 157.
This must ordinarily be so where the contract is directly
with the beneficiary; in respect. to policies running to the
person insured, but payable to another having a direct pecuniary interest in the life insured; and where the proceeds are
made to inure by positive statutory provisions.
Mrs. Hume was confessedly a contracting party to the
IMaryland policy; and as to the Connecticut contracts, the
statute of the State where they were made and to be per-

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

207

Opinion of the Court.

formed, explicitly provided that a policy for the benefit of a
married woman shall inure to her separate use or that of her
children, but if the annual premium exceed three hundred
dollars, the amount of such excess shall inure to the benefit
of the creditors of the person paying the premiums.
The rights and benefits given by the laws of Connecticut
in this regard are as much part of these contracts as if incorporated therein, not only because they are to be taken as if
entered into there, but because there was the place of performance, and the stipulation of the parties was made with
reference to the laws of that place.
And if this be so as between Hume and the Connecticut
companies, then he could not havb at any time disposed of
these policies without the consent of the beneficiary. Nor is
there anything to the contrary in the statutes or general public policy of the District of Columbia.
It may very well be that a transfer by an insolvent of a
Connecticut policy, payable to himself or his personal representatives, would be held invalid in that District, even though
valid under the laws of Connecticut, if the laws of the District were opposed to the latter, because the positive laws of
the domicil and the forum must prevail; but there is no such
conflict of laws in this case in respect to the power of disposition by a person procuring insurance payable to another.
The obvious distinction between the transfer of a policy
taken out by a person upon his insurable interest in his own
life, and payable to himself or his legal representatives, and
the obtaining of a policy by a person upon the insurable interest of his wife and children, and payable to them, has been
repeatedly recognized by the courts.
Thus in Elliott's.Apeal, 50 Penn. St. 75, 83, where the
policies were issued in the name of the husband, and payable
to himself or his personal representatives, and while he was
insolvent were by him transferred to trustees for his wife's
benefit, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, while holding
such transfers void as against creditors, say:
"We are to be understood in thus deciding this case that
we do not mean to extend it to policies effected without fraud

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

directly and on their face for the benefit of the wife, and payable to her; such policies are not fraudulent as to creditors,
and are not touched by this decision."
In the use of the words "without fraud," the court evidently means actual fraud participated in by all parties, and
not fraud inferred from the mere fact of insolvency; and, at
all events, in .'feCuteleon's Appecl, 99 Penn. St. 133, 137, the
court say, referring to Elliott's appeal:
"The policies in that case were effected in the name of the
husband, and by him transferred to a trustee for his wife at
a time when he was totally insolvent. They were held to be
valuable choses in action, the property of the assured, liable
to the payment of his debts, and hence their voluntary assignment operated in fraud of creditors, and was void as against
them under the statute of 13th Elizabeth. Here, however,
the policy was effected in the name of the wife, and in point
of fact was given under an agreement for the surrender of a
previous policy for the same amount also issued in the wife's
name.

.

.

.

The question of good faith or fraud only

arises in the latter case; that is, when the title of the beneficiary arises by assignment. When it exists by force of an
original issue in the name, or for the benefit of the beneficiary, the title is good, notwithstanding the claims of creditors.

.

.

.

There is no anomaly in this, nor any conflict

with the letter or spirit of the statute of Elizabeth, because in
such cases the policy would be at no time the property of the
assured, and hence no question of fraud in its transfer could
arise as to his creditors. It is only in case of the assignment
of a policy that once belonged to the assured that the question
of fraud can arise under this act."
And see _Rtna _Vational Bank v. United States -LifeIns.
Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 770; Pence v. 3lakepeace, 65 Indiana,, 374;
Succession of Bearing, 26 La. Ann. 326; Stigler's Ex'r v.
Stigler, 77 Virginia, 163; Ttompson v. Cundif, 11 Bush,
567.
Conceding, then, in the case in hand, that Hume paid the
premiums out of his own money, when insolvent, yet, as Mrs.
Hume and the children survived him, and the contracts covered

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

209

Opinion of the Court.

their insurable interest, it is difficult to see upon what ground
the creditors, or the administrators as representing them, can
take away from these dependent ones that which was expressly secured to them in the event of the death of their
natural supporter. The interest insured was neither the debtor's nor his creditors'. The contracts were not payable to the
debtor, or his representatives, or his creditors. No fraud on
the part of the wife, or the children, or the insurance company
is pretended. In no sense was there any gift or transfer of
the debtor's property, unless the amounts paid as premiums
are to be held to constitute such gift or transfer. This seems
to have been the view of the court below; for the decree
awarded to the complainants the premiums paid to the Virginia company. from 1874 to 1881, inclusive, and to the other
companies from the date of the respective policies, amounting,
with interest to January 4, 1883, to the sum of $2696.10,
which sum was directed to be paid to Hume's administrators
out of the money which had been paid into court by the
Maryland and Connecticut Mutual companies.
But, even though Hume paid this money out of his own funds
when insolvent, and if such payment were within the statute
of Elizabeth, this would not give the creditors any interest in
the proceeds of the policies, which belonged to the beneficiaries for the reasons already stated.
Were the creditors, then, entitled to recover the premiums?
These premiums were paid by H ume to the insurance companies, and to recover from them would require proof that the
latter participated in the alleged fraudulent intent, which is
not claimed. Cases might be imagined of the payment of
large premiums, out of all reasonable proportion to the known
or reputed financial condition of the person paying, and under
circumstances of grave suspicion,which might justify the inference of fraud on. creditors in the withdrawal of such an
amount from the debtor's resources; but no element of that
sort exists here.
The premiums form no part of the proceeds of the policies,
and cannot be deducted therefrom on that ground.
Mrs. Hume is not shown to have known of or suspected her
VOL. CXVI=-14

OCTOBER TERMN,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

husband's insolvency, and if the payments were made at her
instance, or with her knowledge and assent, or if, without her
knowledge, she afterwards ratified the act, and claimed the
benefit, as she might rightfully do, Thompsoa v. Amer. Ins. (Io.,
46 N. Y. 674, and as she does (and the same remarks apply to
the children), then has she thereby received money which ex
wquo et bono she ought to return to her husband's creditors,
and can the decree against her be sustained on that ground?
If in some cases payments of premiums might be treated as
gifts inhibited by the statute of Elizabeth, can they be so
treated here ?
It is assumed by complainants that the money paid was derived from Hume himself, and it is therefore argued that to
that extent his means for payment of debts were impaired.
-That the payments contributed in any appreciabl4 way. to
Hume's insolvency, is not contended. So far as premiums
were paid in 1880 and 1881, (the payments prior to those
years having been the annual sum of $196.18 on the Virginia
policy,) we are satisfied from the evidence that Hume received
from Mrs. Pickrell, his wife's mother, for the benefit of Mrs.
Hume and her family, an amount of money largely in excess
of these payments, after deducting what was returned to Mrs.
Pickerell, and that in paying the premiums upon procuring
the policies in the Maryland and the Connecticut Mutual,
Hume was appropriating to that purpose a part of the money
which he considered he thus held in trust, and we think that,
as between Hume's creditors and Mrs. Hume, the money
placed in flume's hands for his wife's benefit, is under the
evidence, equitably as much to be accounted for to her by
Hume, and so by them, as is the money paid on her account
to be accounted for by her to him or them.
We do not, however, dwell particularly upon this, nor pause
to discuss the bearing of the laws of the States of the insurance
companies upon this matter of the payment of premiums by
the debtor himself, so far as they may differ from the rule
which may prevail in the District of Columbia, in the absence
of specific statutory enactment upon that subject, because we
prefer to place our decision upon broader grounds.

WASHINGTON CENTRAL BANK v. HUME.

211

Opinion of the Court.

In all purely voluntary conveyances it is the fraudulent
intent of the donor which vitiates. If actually insolvent, he
is held to knowledge of his condition; and if the necessary
consequence of his act is to hinder, delay, or defraud his creditors, within the statute, the presumption of the fraudulent
intent is irrebuttable and conclusive, and inquiry into his
motives is inadmissible.
But the circumstances of each particular case should be considered, as in Partridge v. Gopp, 1 Eden, 163, 168; S. C.
Ambler, 596, 599, where the Lord Keeper, while holding that
debts must be paid before gifts are made, and debtors must be
just before they are generous, admitted that "the fraudulent
intent is to be collected from the magnitude and value of the
gift."
Where fraud is to be imputed, or the imputation of fraud
repelled, by an examination into the circumstances under
which a gift is made to those towards whom the donor is
under natural obligation, the test is said, in RMiff v. Hlanna, 2
Bland, 33, to be the pecuniary ability of the donor at that
time to withdraw the amount of the donation from his estate.
without the least hazard to his creditors, or in any material
degree lessening their then prospects of payment; and in considering the sufficiency of the debtor's property for the payment of debts, the probable, immediate, unavoidable, and reasonable demands for the support of the family of the donor
should be taken into the account and deducted, having in
mind also the nature of his business and his necessary ex69 Illinois, 511.
penses. Emerson v. Beis,
This argument in the interest of creditors concedes that the
debtor may rightfully preserve his family from suffering and
want. It seems to us that the same public policy which justifies this, and recognizes the support of wife and children as a
positive obligation in law as well as morals, should be extended
to protect them from destitution after the debtor's death, by
permitting him, not to accumulate a fund as a permanent provision, but to devote a moderate portion of his earnings to
keep on foot a security for support already, or which could
thereby be lawfully obtained, at least to the extent of requir-

OCTOBER TERM5,

1888.

Syllabus.

iug that, under such circumstances, the fraudulent intent of
both parties to the transaction should be made out.
And inasmuch as there is no evidence from which such intent
on the part of Mrs. Hume or the insurance companies could be
inferred, in our judgment none of these premiums can be recovered.
The decree is ajflrmed, except sofar as it directs the payment
to the administratorsof the premiums in question and interest, and, as to that, is reversed, and the cause remanded
to the court below, with directions to proceed in conformity
with this opinion.

RIDINGS v. JOHNSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 44.

Submitted October 29, 1888. -Decided

November 12,1888.

When a bill in equity is dismissed by the court below on a general demurrer, without an opinion, it is an imposition on this court to throw
upon it the labor of finding out for itself the questions involved, and
the arguments in support of the decree of dismissal.
It is settled law that courts of the United States lose none of their equitable jurisdiction in States where no such courts exist; but, on the contrary, are bound to administer equitable remedies in cases to which they
are applicable, and which are not adapted to a common law action.
The complainant, being the owner of a tract in Louisiana, sold it to the intestate of one of the defendants, receiving a part of the purchase money
in cash and notes for the remainder secured by a mortgage of the tract,
which was not recorded. The purchaser afterwards mortgaged the
tract to the other defendant, and then died insolvent. The second mortgagee then caused the tract to be sold under judicial proceedings to pay
his mortgage debt, no notice being given to the complainant, although
he was aware of the nature of his claim upon the property. The complainant, having caused his mortgage to be recorded, filed this bill to
enforce his rights by a rescission of the sale to the decedent, offering to
refund the cash received by him and to give up the unpaid mortgage
notes. Held, that it was a proceeding in equity.
Since the passage of the act of 1855, p. 335, codified in the Revised Stat-

