BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Syllabus.

cution," in § 13 of the Revised Statutes. The court, speaking
by Mr. Justice. Miller, said: "But, without attempting to go
into a precise technical definition of each of these words, it is
my opinion that they were used by Congress to include all
forms of punishment for crime; and, as strong evidence of
this view, I found, during the progress of the argument, and
called the attention of the counsel to a section, which prescribed fine and imprisonment for two years, wherein Congress used the words: I Shall be liable to a penalty of not less
than one thousand dollars, . .
and to imprisonment not
more than two years.' Moreover, any man using common
language might say, and very properly, that Congress had
subjected a party to a liability, and, if asked what liability,
might reply, a liability to be imprisoned. This is a very general use of language, and surely it would not be understood as
denoting a civil proceeding. I think, therefore, that this word
'liability' is intended to cover every form of punishment to
which a man subjects himself, by violating the common laws
of the country. Besides, as my brother Treat reminds me,
the word 'prosecution' is used in this section, and that usually
denotes a criminal proceeding."
For the rea.ons we have given, the question, presented by the
eertijfcate is answered in the alfirmative.

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST AND SAFE DEPOSIT COMPAJNY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 20.

Submitted April 25, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

It is not indispensable that all the parties to a suit in equity should have an
interest in all the 'natters contained in the suit; it will be sufficient, in
order to avoid the objection of multifariousness, if each party has an
interest in some material matters in the suit, and they are connected with
the others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
To support the objection of multifariousness to a bill in equity, because the
bill contains different causes of suit against the same person, two things
must concur: first, the grounds of suit must be different; second, each
ground must be sufficient, as stated. to sustain a bill.
Testing the bill in this case by these principles, it is Held not to be multifarious.
Time is not of the essence of a contract for the sale of property, unless
made so by express stipulation, or unless it maybe implied to be so from
the nature of the property, or from the character of the interest bargained, or from the avowed object of the seller or of the purchaser.
Applying these principles to the contract which forms the subject-matter
of this suit; Held, that time was not of its essence.

IN EowiTY. This litigation arose from a creditor's bill, filed
in one of the courts of Illinois, by Edward R. Knowlton against
the City of Joliet Water Works Company, Jesse W. Starr and
Harriet Brown, for the enforcement of a judgment against
the first-named two defendants; for the appointment of a receiver of the property used by that company in its business;
and for an accounting with the remaining defendant, Harriet
Brown, who, it was alleged, asserted a vendor's lien upon some
of the property of the Water Works Company, sold by her
to Starr, and by him to that company.
The Guarantee Trust and Safe Deposit Company, a corporation of Pennsylvania, being made a defendant, the cause, upon
its motion, was removed to th- United States Circuit Court
for the Northern District of Il]inois, upon the ground of the
diverse citizenship of the parties. Subsequently that company
filed its cross-bill for a foreclosure of a mortgage held by it
upon the property of the Water Works Company, and for
specific performance by Harriet, Brown of her contract of sale
to Starr.
The cross-bill alleged, in substance, that by certain instruments in writing, bearing date, respectively, the 15th and 17th
of June, and the 9th of October, 1880, Starr undertook with
the city of Joliet to construct and maintain a system of water
works for that city and its citizens, in consideration of which
it agreed to grant to him and his successors' certain franchises,
rights and rentals connected therewith; that on the 4th of
October, 1880, he entered into a written agreement with

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Statement of the Case.

Harriet Brown, by which, in consideration of $1000 to be
paid to her, she agreed to convey to him a certain parcel of
land in Joliet; that subsequently he entered into a verbal
agreement with her for the purchase of other parcels of land,
making, in all, 9.60 acres, for which he was to pay a total price
of $4800; that on the 10th of December thereafter, Mrs.
Brown, by warranty deed, conveyed all of said parcels to
Starr, placing the deed in the hands of one Hobbs, for delivery
to Starr, upon the payment of the balance of the purchase
money; and that on the 3d of November Starr paid to her,
on that purchase, the sum of $500, and on the 17th of February, 1881, the further sum of $1000.
It was also alleged, in the cross-bill, that immediately after
said agreements, and with full knowledge and consent of Mrs.
Brown, Starr took actual and open possession of all the premises so purchased, and immediately began to make permanent
and expensive improvements thereon for water works purposes; that he and his assignee, hereinafter mentioned, continued to make such improvements at a cost" of about $50,000,
and remained in uninterrupted possession of the premises until
they were delivered to the receiver appointed in this litigation; all this within the daily sight of Mrs. Brown, and without objection or molestation on her part; that to supplement
his individual resources, which were insufficient to carry out
his agreement with the city, Starr resorted to the plan of creating a corporation under the local laws of the'State, and by
means of its negotiable bonds and stocks raising money sufficient to complete said water works; and that to accomplish
this purpose The City of Joliet Water Works Company was
organized, with a capital stock of $200,000, of which amount
Starr subscribed for $195,000 in his individual name.
It is further alleged in the cross-bill, that immediately upon
the organization of that corporation, and on the 9th of December, 1880, Starr conveyed to it and its assigns his contracts with the city of Joliet, as well as the rights, franchises
and property, real and personal, connected therewith, including the property purchased from Mrs. Brown, and agreed with
the company to complete the system of water works contem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

plated by his contract with the city, and deliver them to the
company within a reasonable time; that by the agreement
last mentioned the company, Starr being a director and the
principal manager, as well as the subscriber for all of its capital stock except $5000, agreed to credit him forthwith with
$195,000 on his subscription to its capital stock, and to deliver
to him its bonds to the amount of $140,000, par value, and
also to secure their payment by executing to the complainant
in the cross-bill a mortgage upon all the property, rights and
franchises then owned, or thereafter to be acquired by it; that
said bonds were accordingly delivered to Starr, and the mortgage was duly executed to the complainant in the cross-bill;
that after getting the bonds in his hands he forthwith placed
them upon the market, and they are now held by a large
number of persons and corporations; that the Water Works
Company has made default in the payment of the interest
coupons due on said bonds, and for more than four calendar
months has continued to make default; and that, in obedience
to the request made to it, according to the terms of the mortgage, by a majority in interest of the holders of bonds, the
complainant in the cross-bill, as trustee, files its cross-bill for
foreclosure. The bill still further avers that, in consequence
of the assignment of Starr to the Water Works Company and
the execution of said mortgage, the trustee was invested with
the right, upon the payment of the purchase money due to
Mrs. Brown, 'ith interest thereon, to demand of her a specific
performance of her agreement with Starr; that, as such mortgagee, the Guarantee Trust and Safe Deposit Company has
always been willing to perform the agreement of Starr and to
pay his vendor the residue of the purchase money due to her,
with interest, on having a proper deed of conveyance, and is
still ready and offers to pay the said residue; and that the
Water Works Company is hopelessly insolvent, having no property, except that covered by the mortgage. The bill prays
for a foreclosure and sale; that the proceeds thereof, after
paying certain fees and current expenses, may be distributed in
payment of said bonds and coupons; that an account may be
taken of the amount due on account of the purchase money

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Statement of the Case.

due to Mrs. Brown from Starr; and that she be decreed to
specifically perform her agreements to convey, so that said
mortgage shall be a valid and first lien on the property.
Mrs. Brown filed a demurrer to the amended cross-bill,
alleging specifically that the same was multifarious. This
demurrer having been overruled, she thereupon answered,
averring her ignorance of the contracts between Starr and the
city; admitting the entering into the written contract with
Starr, but alleging that it was thereafter wholly and completely abandoned by him, and that neither he nor any person or corporation had ever offered or claimed the right to
carry out that contract; admitting that he afterwards verbally negotiated for the purchase of a larger tract of land, but
alleging that said negotiation, as a contract, was void, under
the statute of frauds; that by its terms the payment of the
entire purchase price was a condition precedent to the vesting
in him of any title whatever; that the possession and the
improvements were made without her consent, express or
implied, and with his eyes open, and that she is entitled to
the whole, augmented in value as it is by the improvements;
that she had made a great many efforts to secure the balance
of the purchase money due from Starr, but had been unsuccessful; that the negotiation and transaction, so far as he and
those claiming under him or acting with him were concerned,
had been a fraud upon her; that by reason of such failure on
his part, and that of his successors and assigns, to comply with
the terms of her contract with him, it had become broken, and
was void; and that the amended cross-bill was multifarious;
and praying the same benefit of her answer as if she had specifically demurred to the bill. To this answer a replication
was filed.
Pursuant to a decree of the court on the 31st of March,
1883, upon the petition of John D. Paige, receiver, all the
property and effects of the Water Works Company which it
obtained from Starr, and all the rights accruing to it by virtue
of the contract with Mrs. Brown, were sold, and bought by
Joseph I. Foster, of Portsmouth, N. H. On June 9th, 1883,
a decree of foreclosure was entered upon the cross-bill against
the fund realized by the sale.

408

OCTOBER T.SRAI, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

After some other proceedings., not necessary to be stated, a
further decree was entered, August 12th, 1883, adjudging that
there was justly due to Harrie, Brown, on account of said
purchase money of the premises sold to Starr, including interest,
the sum of $3964, and that her said agreement with Starr be
performed and carried into execution.
From this decree Mrs. Brown prayed and perfected the
appeal which brought her case here.
-Mr. Cliarles A. Dupee and Ar. .Mon roe L. Willard for

appellants.
I. The cross-bill was multifarious.
The right to specific performence against Mrs. Brown was
a question entirely distinct from any which could or did arise
in the foreclosure of the mortgage. She was in no way interested in any of the questions between the mortgagee and
mortgagor, or those claiming under it. That this is so, and
that Mrs. Brown was not a necessary party, the proceedings
in the case demonstrate. The property was sold by the master April 28, 1883, but, by expcess order of the court, only
such rights and interests in the real estate as belonged to the
Water Works Company and those claiming under it were so
sold. On June 9, 1883, a decree of foreclosure was rendered,
purporting to be upon the cross-bill and the several answers
thereto, but in no way adjudicating the questions relating to
Mrs. Brown. And these questions remained unadjudicated
until August following. If Mrs. Brown was a necessary party,
her rights should have been passed upon before any sale was
made of the land. But they were not until some time after
the final decree of foreclosure. We see no reason in principle, or in the proceedings in fact had, why Mrs. Brown's case
should have been mixed up with the foreclosure; why the
mortgagee should not, if it had E right to enforce Starr's contracts, have filed an original bill for that purpose. Such a
bill could have been speeded as rapidly as the same questions
in the foreclosure case. If it had no such right, then the decree in question should be reversed. 1 Daniell's Ch. P1. and

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Argument for Appellants.

Pr. 339, c. 6, § 4; Story's Eq. Pl. § 272; Dial v. Reynolds, 96
U. S. 340.
I. The right and title claimed by appellant were adverse
and paramount, or at least prior to the interests of both mortgagor and mortgagee, and therefore appellant was not a
proper party to the cross-bill.
The controversy in a foreclosure suit is not concerning
claims of title paramount to the mortgagor, or adverse to him.
It is a question regarding the validity of the mortgage and its
amount. The object of the proceeding is to bar the equity of
redemption of the person giving the mortgage, and those
who have acquired rights under him inferibr to the mortgage,
and to convey to the purchaser under the decree the title
mortgaged. It is not to give a perfect title, or to give him
any better title than the mortgagor had, or even to determine
-whether he had any title at all. If it is proper to try title in
a foreclosure suit, conversely it would be proper to try a foreclosure suit in an action to recover land. It would be immaterial whether it was the holder of the adverse title or the
mortgagee who went forward. But "one suit cannot thus be
injected into another." Peteis v. Bowman, 98 U. S. 56, 60;
Jones on Mortgages, §§ 1439, 1440, 1445. On the same principle, in a suit to foreclose a mortgage, made of land for the
conveyance of which to him the mortgagor holds a bond,
the vendor is not a proper party. He cannot be affected by
the decree. Pridgen v. Andrews, 7 Texas, 461 ; Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340; Oaqpman v. West, 17 N. Y. 125; Tasker v.
Small, 3 Myl. & Cr. 63.
III. The evidence did not sustain the right to a decree for
specific performance.
It is unnecessary to cite authorities for the well-known principles of law applicable to the rights of a suitor for specific
performance. He must himself have been at all times ready
to carry out his part of the contract, and must have done or
offered to do everything imposed upon him by the same.
We believe the only real ground upon which the court can
base a decision in favor of the bondholders is the fact that
expensive improvements were made upon the premises. Did

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the law permit them on that account to arbitrarily ignore
Mrs. Brown's rights as they could not otherwise have done?
Or should it have made them more than ever ready, willing
and eager to observe those rights and do everything necessary
to be done on their part to entitle them to a conveyance.
Finally, the decree is against the evidence for the reason
that no tender was ever made to Mrs. Brown - and, until the
filing of the amended cross-bill, not even an offer -and no
excuse is shown for the neglect. .Doyle v. Teas, 4 Scammon,
202.
.,.

J Z. Jigh for appellees.

MIR. JUSTICE LAxAR, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the cou-t.
It is contended by the appellant that the decree, below
should be reversed on the ground that the cross-bill is multifarious. In Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253, 259, this objection
was urged against a bill, and in considering the objection the
court say: "There is, perhaps, no rule established for the conducting of equity pleadings, with reference to which (whilst
as a rule it is universally admitted) there has existed less of
certainty and uniformity in application, than has attended this
relating to multifariousness. This effect, flowing, perhaps inevitably, from the variety of modes and degrees of right and
interest entering into the transactions of life, seems to have
led to a conclusion rendering the rule almost as much an exception as a rule, and that conclusion is, that each case must
be determined by its peculiar features."
So in Gaines v. Chew, 2 How. 619, 642, the court say: "In
general terms, a bill is said to be multifarious, which seeks to
enforce against different individuals demands which are wholly
disconnected. In illustration of this, it is said, if an estate be
sold in lots to different persons, the purchasers could not join
in exhibiting one bill against the vendor for a specific performance. Nor could the vendor file a bill for a specific
performance against all the purchasers. The contracts of purchase being distinct, in no way connected with each other, a

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.

411

Opinion of the Court.

bill for a specific execution, whether filed by the vendor or
vendees, must be limited to one contract. . . . It is well
remarked by Lord Cottenham, in CarApbell v. .fackay, 'I Sim.
564, and in 1 Myl. & Cr. 603, 'to lay down any rule, applicable universally, or to say what constitutes multifariousness, as
an abstract proposition, is, upon the authorities, utterly impossible.' Every case must be governed by its own circumstances; and, as these are as diversified as the names of the
parties, the court must exercise a sound discretion on the subject. Whilst parties should not be subjected to expense and
inconvenience, in litigating matters in which they have no
interest, multiplicity of suits should be avoided, by uniting in
one bill all who have an interest in the principal matter in
controversy, though the interests may have arisen under distinct contracts."
In that case the bill was filed against the two executors of
the will of Daniel Clark, the heirs-at-law of his legatee, and
the several purchasers of various pieces of property which had
been sold off from the estate. The relief asked was an accounting in respect to the rents and profits of the several parcels, and for general relief, as the heir and devisee of Clark
under a different testament. Under this state of facts, the
court said, p. 643: "The right of the complainant, Myra, must
be sustained under the will of 1813, or as heir-at-law of
Daniel Clark. The defendants claim mediately or immediately
under the will of 1811, although their purchases were made at
different times and for distinct parcels of the property. They
have a common source of title, but no common interest in their
purchases. And the question arises, on this state of facts,
whether there is misjoinder or multifariousness in the bill,
which makes the defendants parties. . . . And the main
ground of the defence, the validity of the will of 1811, and
the proceedings under it, is common to all the defendants.
Their interests may be of greater or less extent; but that constitutes a difference in degree only, and not in principle.
There can be no doubt that a bill might have been filed against
each of the defendants, but the question is whether they may
not all be included in the same bill. The facts of the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

chase, including notice, may be peculiar to each defendant;
but these may be ascertained without inconvenience or expense to codefendants. .In every fact which goes to impair
or establish the authority of the executors, all the defendants
are alike interested. In its present form the bill avoids multiplicity of suits, without subjecting the defendants to inconvenience or unreasonable expense."
The case against one defendant may be so entire as to be
incapable of being prosecuted in several suits; and yet some
other defendant may be a necessary party to some portion
only of the case stated. In the latter case the objection of
multifariousness cannot be allowed to prevail. Attorney General v. Poole, 4 Myl. & Or. 1', 31; Turner v. .Robinson, 1
Sim. & St. 313; Attorney General v. Cr'adock, 3 Myl. and
Or. 85.
It is not indispensable that all the parties should have an
interest in all the matters contained in the suit; it will be
sufficient if each party has an interest in some material matters in the suit, and they are cornected with the others. Addison,v. Walker, 4 Yo. & Col. Oh. 442; Parr v. Attorney
General, 8 C1. & Fin. 409, 435; Worthy v. Johnson, 8 Georgia,
236.
To support the objection of multifariousness, because the
bill contains different causes of mit against the same person,
two things must concur: first, the grounds of suit must be
different; second, each ground must be sufficient as stated to
sustain a bill. Bedsole v. fonroe, 5 Iredell Eq. 313; Lzrkins
v. Biddle, 21 Alabama, 252; -Nail v. .Yobley, 9 Georgia, 278;
Robinson v. Cross, 22 Connecticut, 171.
Testing, now, the case at bar in the light of these authorities
and their statements of the principle involved, it will be useful to get a clear view of the exact relations of the parties.
Assuming the statements of thc cross-bill to be true, and the
demands preferred by it to be meritorious, the objection of multifariousness, however presented, raises no question, save the
technical one of an undue uniting of demands. The attitude
of the parties is this: Mrs. Brown, by her contract with Starr,
and by his agreement with the Joliet Water Works Company,

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

had become the trustee of the legal title for the benefit of the
company. Starr and the company, on the other hand, owed
the purchase money to Nrs. Brown. By his assignment to
the company, only an equitable title was conveyed, for he had
not a legal title; so the Water Works Company's mortgage to
the Guarantee Trust and Safe Deposit Company was but the
mortgage of an equity. Having no legal title itself, the
mortgagor company cou!M convey none to the mortgagee or
the trustee. So, also, as to the other defendants to the crossbill, the intervenors under the original bill, whatever may be
in fact the exact measure and nature of their various rights,
all are in common interested in the legal title held, as above
stated, by Mrs. Brown. Indeed, as to all the parties to the
cross-bill, and their respective demands, she holds the key to
the whole situation, especially in view of the fact that the
reservoir and engines are on the land in question.
Every defendant to the cross-bill, as well as the complainant
therein, is directly interested in the calling in of the legal title.
It will necessarily enhance the value of the property to be
sold, not merely by the increase in value by the amount paid
by the complainant under its tender, but also and to a greater
extent by the settlement of the title. To paraphrase the language of the court in Gaines v. Chew, supra, "In every fact
which goes to establish the identity and value of the property
sought to be sold" all the defendants are directly interested;
not interested to the same extent nor in the same way, but
still, in a substantial sense, interested in any decree which may
be rendered
The case of Dial v. Reynolds, 96 IU.S.340, relied on by
counsel for the appellant in this connection, and its cognate
cases, are not opposed to this view. This is not an instance
of an attempt, in a foreclosure proceeding, to call in and litigate an outstanding legal title. It is the only legal title in
the field; it is that under and through which mortgagor and
mortgagee equally claim. To say that the alleged trustee of
that title, because he chooses to deny the trust relation, can
defeat the proceeding without an adjudication on its merits,
and drive the mortgagee to a distinct and preliminary suit, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of tshe Court.

to assume a position not suppo ted by authority, and in the
opinion of this court, not maintainable.
The appellant further claims that, as to Mrs. Brown, the
case made out below was not such a one as calls for specific
performance, and in support of this view relies on alleged unreasonable delay in the payment of the purchase money. The
legal propositions applicable to this question are well settled
in this court.
In Secombe v. Steele, 20 How. 94, 104, it is said: "Time
may be made of the essence of the contract by express stipulation, or it may become essential by considerations arising
from the nature of the property or the character of the interest bargained. And the principle of the court of equity does
not depend upon considerations collateral to the contract
merely, nor on the conduct of the parties subsequently, showing that time was not of the essence of the contract in the
particular case. But it mv-st awrmatively apoear that thearties regarded time or place as an essential element in their
agreement, or a court of equity vill not so regard it."
In iolgate v. Eaton, 116 U. S. 33, 40, the court say: "In
the case of Taylor v. Longwortk, 14 Pet. 172, 174, Mr. Justice
Story uses language which has ..ince become a legal maxim in
this class of cases. 'In the first place,' he says, 'there is no
doubt that time may be of the essence of a contract for the
sale of property. It may be made so by the express stipulation of the parties, or it may arise by implication from the
very nature of the property, or the avowed objects of the seller
or the purchaser. And even when time is not, thus, either
expressly or impliedly, of the essence of the contract, if the
party seeking a specific performance has been guilty of gross
laches, or has been inexcusably negligent in performing the
contract on his part; or if there has, in the intermediate
period, been a material change of circumstances, affecting the
rights, interests, or obligation oi the parties; in all such cases
courts of equity will refuse to de,-ree any specific performance,
upon the plain ground that it would be inequitable and unjust.'"
Apply these principles to the contract between Starr and
Mrs. Brown and what will be the result?

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It was not even claimed that there was any express stipulation between the parties that time should be of the essence of
the contract: nor, on the other hand, that such obligation
arose from the nature of the property or the avowed object of
the seller.
It is asserted that there was an understanding that Starr
should have no right or title to the land, or the right to"any
conveyance of the land, until the full purchase price should be
paid. But that is a very different proposition. It has relation to the security reserved, and not to the time of payment.
It is true, that in his deposition of April 18, 1883, Hobbs, the
agent of Mrs. Brown, states that Starr agreed to pay cash, and
that such was "the basis of the contract." But no such claim
was presented by the pleadings; and, moreover, Hobbs's testimony shows that there was an agreement for the postponement of the payment while Starr should go to Philadelphia;
and, finally, in the same deposition, and in a subsequent one,
he states that Starr had agTeed to pay eight per cent interest on
the purchase money, - a proposition manifestly inconsistent
with the theory of appellant's insistence on a cash transaction.
Without stopping to array them, it will suffice to say, that
numerous matters in the record show, to the satisfaction of
the court, that Mrs. Brown consented to Starr's delay of payment, reluctantly perhaps, but nevertheless consented. Even
were it granted that time was of the essence of the contract,
the conduct of Mrs. Brown would have been a waiver of that
fact. Her acceptance of a partial payment of $1000, on the
17th of February, 1881, was certainly not a disaffirmance of
the contract, but the contrary. So, again, her demand for
performance on the 27th of November, 1881, shows very
plainly that up to that day it had not been abandoned. Hobbs
in his first deposition states that there was a subsequent demand made by him on Starr for the money; and his second
deposition shows that h sought an interview with the attorney
of the committee of the bondholders on the 26th of January,
1883, for the purpose of getting the money due to Mrs. Brown
on the contract with Starr.
The answer of Mrs. Brown declares that the contract was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

abandoned and cancelled in iNovember, 1881, in Philadelphia.
Even if she had the power so to do under the circumstances,
still it was not done. The averments of the answer are not
only not proved, but are even disproved by Hobbs himself.
Hobbs was an officer of the Water Works Company. In his
first deposition he gives this version of the transaction relied
on in the answer. He says: "[ got on the train and went to
Philadelphia and told Mr. Starr we insisted upon the payment
of that amount and others, and if it was not paid or absolutely
provided for while I was there in the city for a day or so, that
I should return to Joliet, and the understanding was that Mr.
Knowlton and myself would withdraw from the company;
Mr. Starr failed, after various plans he had made, to produce
the money; he failed in furnishing it, and I returned, he following me back within a few days, and we then -withdrew
from the company."
The witness is here speaking, as elsewhere appears, of not
only this debt, but also of the general liabilities of the concern. Subsequently to this, he still demanded the money from
Starr. Pomeroy on Specific Performance, 395, 396; Reynolds
v. lVelson, 6 Madd. 18, 19.
As between the appellant and the bondholders, represented
by the trustee, it would be inequitable to refuse the consummation of her bargain.
The decree of the Circuit Court is afflrmed.

WOOD

v. GUARANTEE TRUST AND
POSIT COM\[PANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

SAFE DE-

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 21.

Submitted April 25,1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

A debt contracted for "construction" is not entitled to the priority of payment, in proceedings for the foreclosure of a mortgage of the property
of a railroad corporation, which is recognized in Fosdick v. Schall, 96

