UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.

673

Syllabus.

In An llei' v. TEd2ple, 20 Wall. 546, cited by the plaintiff,
the suit was based upon articles of partnership between
Ambler and Whipple, by which it was agreed that all patents
obtained by either partner should be owned by both in equal
shares. The bill alleged that the two jointly had obtained a
patent for a joint invention, and that another patent, afterwards obtained by Whipple upon the application of a third
person, embodied the same invention with only a colorable
variation. -Neither of the patents was in the record, and the
questions now presented were not suggested by counsel or
considered by the court, but the decree for the plaintiff proceeded upon independent grounds.
The result is, that the present bill cannot be maintained,
and that the plaintiff must be left to any remedy that he may
have to recover damages in an action at law.
-Decreeaffimed.
The CHIF JUSTIE and Mm. JUSTICE BRA LmY dissented.

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER MINING COMPANTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 82. Argued and submitted November 15, 1SSS.- Decided December 17, 185.
M
Iisrepresentations, knowingly made by an applicant for a mineral patent,
as to discovery of mineral, or as to the form in which the mineral appears, whether in placers, or in veins, lodes or ledges, will justify the
government in moving to set aside the patent.
In such cases the burden of proof is upon the government, and the presumption that the patent was correctly issued can be overcome only by
clear and convincing proof of the fraud alleged. The doctrine of the
Maxwe77 Lamd Crant Case, 121 U. S. 325, and of Colorado Coal and Iron
Company v. United States, 123 U. S. 307, on this point affirmed.
Exceptions made by the statute cannot be enlarged by the language of a
patent. The statute only excepts from placer patents, veins o3 lodes
known to exist at the date of application for patent.
VOL. cxxvM-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
To establish the statutory exception from a placer patent the lodes or veins
must be clearly ascertained, and be of such extent as to render the land
more valuable on that account and justify their exploitation.
The certificate of the surveyor general is made by statute evidence of the
sufficiency of work performed and improvements made on a mining claim.
In the absence of fraudulent representations respecting them to him by
the patentee, his determination as to their sufficiency, unless corrected
by the Land Department, before patent, must be taken as conclusive.
His estimate is open to examination by the Department before patent,
and any alleged error in it cannot afterwards be made ground for impeaching the validity of the patent.

The bill charged that two patents for placer
mining claims had been obtained upon false and fraudulent
representations and prayed for their cancellation. The answer
denied all the allegations of fraud. The bill was dismissed,
from which decree the United States took this appeal.
Iw EQUITY.

X.A Solicitor General for appellants.
-r. L. S. Dixon, for appellees, submitted on his brief.
Mm. JuSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought by the United States against
the Iron Silver Mining Company, a corporation created under
the laws of New York, and James A. Sawyer, a citizen of
Colorado, to cancel two patents for alleged placer mining
claims, lmown respectively as the Fanchon placer claim and
the Stinson placer claim, situated in the county of Lake, Colorado. Both patents were issued to the defendant Sawyer,
and the larger part of the claims was subsequently conveyed
by him to the defendant corporation.
The Fanchon claim embraces 113 acres and a fraction of an
acre. The patent for it bears date November 17, 1881, and
was issued upon an entry made April 22, 1880.
The Stinson claim embraces 124: acres and a fraction of an
acre. The patent for it bears date June 15, 1881, and was
issued upon an entry made April 27, 1880.
The bill for the cancellation of these patents alleges that
they were obtained upon false and fraudulent representations

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER

IINING CO. 675

Opinion of the Court.

that the land embraced by them was placer mining ground,
and cbntained no veins or lodes of quartz or other rock bearing gold or silver or other metal, and that the patentee had
performed the work upon each tract required by law to entitle
him to enter it as a placer claim; whereas, in fact, the land
was not placer mining ground, but land containing sundry
veins or lodes of quartz or other rock bearing gold, silver and
lead of great value, which was well known to the patentee on
his application for the patents; and that the work required to
enter the tracts as placer claims had never been performed.
The bill also alleges that the defendant Sawyer had previously made several locations of lode claims on this ground,
and that certificates of these locations had been recorded in
the office of the recorder of Lake County; that he afterwards
entered into a conspiracy with one William H. Stevens and
Levi Z. Leiter, of Colorado, to defraud the United States of
the lode claims and the timber on the land, of which there
was a valuable growth, by obtaining patents of the land as
placer ground, for the benefit of those parties and of the defendant, the Iron Silver Mlining Company, in which they were
interested; that by its terms the defendant Sawyer was to
abandon the lode claims and take up the ground as placer
claims, and Stevens and Leiter were to advance the necessary
funds for that purpose; that when the patents were obtained
Sawyer was to receive in consideration of his services in the
matter a portion of the claims; and that the patents in question were obtained in execution of this conspiracy.
These allegations are specifically denied by the defendants
in their answer, and the proofs in the case were directed to
establish them on the one hand, and to refute them on the
other. If established, the government could justly demand a
cancellation of the patents. The statutes providing for the
disposition of the mineral lands of the United States are
framed in a most liberal spirit, and those lands are open to
the acquisition of every citizen upon conditions which can be
readily complied with. It is the policy of the government to
favor the development of mines of gold and silver and other
metals, and every facility is afforded for that purpose; but it

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

exacts a faithful compliance with the conditions required.
There must be a discovery of the mineral, and a sufficient
exploration of the ground to show this fact beyond question.
The form also in which the mineral appears, whether in placers
or in veins, lodes or ledges, must be disclosed so far as ascertained. Misrepresentation knowingly made as to these matters by the applicant for a patent will afterwards justify the
government in proceeding to set it aside. The government
has the same right to demand a cancellation of the conveyances of the United States when obtained by false and fraudulent representations as a private individual when a conveyance of his lands is obtained in like manner. In this respect
the United States, as a landed proprietor, stand upon the same
footing with the private citizen. The burden of proof in such
cases is upon the government. The presumption attending
the patent, even when directly assailed, that it was issued upon
sufficient evidence that the law had been complied with by the
-officers of the government charged with the alienation of public lands, can only be overcome by clear and convincing proof.
In several cases recently before this court the character and
degree of proof required to set aside a patent for land of the
United States issued in due form by their officers, where they

have had jurisdiction over the subject and have observed the
various proceedings preliminary to its issue required by law,
have been discussed and determined, and rules laid down
which must control in future cases of the kind.
In X.faowell land G-'taint Case, which was before us at October term, 1886, this question received careful consideration.
121 U. S. 325, 379, 381. The court there said, by Mr. Justice
-Miller: "The deliberate action of the tribunals, to which the
law commits the determination of all preliminary questions
and the control of the processes by which this evidence of title
is issued to the grantee, demands that, to annul such an instrument and destroy the title claimed under it, the facts on
which this action is asked for must be clearly established by
evidence entirely satisfactory to the court, and that the case
itself must be within the class of causes for which such an
instrument may be avoided." And again: "We take the

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER

INING CO.

077

Opinion of the Court.

general doctrine to be, that when in a court of equity it is proposed to set aside, to annul or to correct a written instrument
for fraud or mistake in the execution of the instrument itself,
the testimony on which this is done must be clear, unequivocal.
and convincing, and that it cannot be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves the issue in doubt. If
the proposition, as thus laid down in the cases cited, is sound
in regard to the ordinary contracts of private individuals, how
much more should it be observed where the attempt is to
annul the grants, the patents, and other solemn evidences of
title emanating from the government of the United States
under its official seal. In this class of cases, the respect due
to a patent, the presumptions that all the preceding steps
required by the law had been observed before its issue, the
immense importance and necessity of the stability of titles
dependent upon these official instruments, demand that the
effort to set them aside, to annul them, or to correct mistakes
in them, should only be successful when the allegations on
which this is attempted axe clearly stated and fully sustained
by proof."
In Color'ado Coal Company v. United States, 123 U. S. 307,
before us at October term, 1887, the same subject was considered, and a sim~ilar conclusion reached, as to the character
and degree of proof necessary to invalidate a patent of the
United States. There patents for coal lands were alleged to
have been obtained on false and fraudulent papers made by the
register and receiver of the local land office combining with
others in a conspiracy for that purpose; but the court, after
referring to the doctrine declared in Xaxwell Land Grant
Case, said, by Mr. Justice Matthews: "It thus appears that
the title of the defendants rests upon the strongest presumptions of fact which, although they may be rebutted, nevertheless can be overthrown only by full proofs to the contrary,
clear, convincing and unambiguous. The burden of producing
these proofs and establishing the conclusion to which they are
Neither is it relieved of
directed rests upon the government.
this obligation by the negative nature of -the proposition it is
bound to establish." Authorities are then cited to show that

-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

in some instances the burden of proving a negative rests upon
the complaining party; and especially so where the negative
allegation involves a charge of fraud against the party whose
conduct is complained of, for which it is sought to defeat an
estate.
In this connection a word should be said of a paragraph in
the opinion in .Aoffat v. United States, 112 U. S. 24, 30. That
was a suit to set aside a patent issued to fictitious parties; and
the court, referring to the presumption which is indulged
as a protection against collateral attacks upon a patent
by third parties, said: "It may be admitted, as stated by
counsel, that if, upon any state of facts, the patent might have
been lawfully issued, the court will presume, as against such
collateral attacks that the facts existed; but that presumption
has no place in a suit by the United States directly assailing
the patent and seeking its cancellation for fraud in the conduct of their officers." It was not intended by this language
to hold that presumptions in favor of the regularity and lawfulness of patents issued did not apply in suits by the United
States to vacate them for fraud; but that the presumption
mentioned- that is, that when a patent is assailed collaterally,
if it could be sustained upon any state of facts, the court will
presume that such facts existed -could not apply in suits by
the United States assailing the patent for fraud in the conduct
of their officers. This is evident from what immediately follows in the opinion, for the court adds: "In such a suit the
burden of proof is undoubtedly, in the first instance, on the
government to show a fatal irregularity or corrupt conduct on
their part; but when a case is established, which, if unexplained, would warrant a conclusion against them, the burden
of proof is shifted, and they must show such integrity of conduct, and such a compliance with the law, as will sustain the
patent." If the presumption mentioned could be admitted, no
suit of the kind could be sustained, for facts could be stated
which would overthrow the allegations of fraud.
The patents in controversy were issued under §§ 2329 and
2333 of the Revised Statutes, which are as follows:
"SEc. 2329. Claims, usually called 'placers,' including all.

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.

679

Opinion of the Court.

forms of deposit, excepting veins of quartz, or other rock in
place, shall be subject to entry and patent, under like circumstances and conditions, and upon similar proceedings, as are
provided for vein or lode claims; but where the lands have
been previously surveyed by the United States, the entry in
its exterior limits shall conform to the legal subdivisions of the
public lands."
"SEc. 2333. Where the same person, association, or corporation is in possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode
included within the boundaries thereof, application shall be
made for a patent for the placer claim, with the statement that
it includes such vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue
for the placer claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter,
including such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars
per acre for such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five feet of
surface on each side thereof. The remainder of the placer
claim, or any placer claim not embracing any vein or lode
claim, shall be paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty
cents per acre, together with all costs of proceedings; and
where a vein or lode, such as is described in section twentythree hundred and twenty is known to exist within the boundaries of a placer claim, an application for a patent for such
placer claim which does not include an application for the vein
or lode claim shall be construed as a conclusive declaration
that the claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession
of the vein or lode claim; but where the existence of a vein
or lode in a placer claim is not known, a patent for the placer
claim shall convey all valuable mineral and other deposits
within the boundaries thereof."
By the term "placer claim," as here used, is meant ground
within defined boundaries which contains mineral in its earth,
sand or gravel ; ground that includes valuable deposits not in
place, that is, not fixed in rock, but which are in a loose state,
and may in most cases be collected by washing or am algamation without milling.
By "' veins or lodes," as here used, are meant lines or aggregations of metal embedded in quartz or other rock in place.
The terms are found together in the statutes, and both are

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

intended to indicate the presence of metal in rock. Yet a
lode may and often does contain more than one vein. In
Ihorn Silver Mining Co. v. Cheesman, 116 U. S. 529, 533, a
definition of a lode is given, so far as it is practicable to define
it with accuracy, and it is not necessary to repeat it. What
is important here is, that the amount of land which may be
taken up as a placer claim and the amount as a lode claim,
and the price per acre to be paid to the government in the
two cases, when patents are obtained, are different. And the
rights conferred by the respective patents, and the conditions
upon which they are held, are also different. Rev. Stat. §§
2320, 2322, 2325, 2333; Smelting Co. v. Kerp, 104 U. S.636,
651; Iron Silver Xining Co. v. Reynolds, 124 U. S.374.
The patent for the Stinson claim contained the following
conditions:
.First. That the grant is restricted in its exterior limits
to the boundaries of the tract described, and to any veins or
lodes of quartz or other rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper, or other valuable deposits, which may
hereafter be discovered within said limits, and which are not
claimed or known to exist at the date thereof.
Second. That should any vein or lode of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper,
or other valuable deposits, be claimed or known to exist within
the described premises, at the date thereof, the same is expressly excepted and excluded therefrom.
The patent for the Fanchon placer claim contains similar
conditions.
The exception from grant in each patent of any vein or
lode of quartz or other rock in place bearing gold, copper,
silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, or other valuable deposit, "claimed
or known to exist" at the date of the patent within the
described premises, is in terms broader than the language of
the statute under which the patents were issued. The exception of the statute cannot be thus enlarged. The statute does not except veins or lodes "claimed or known to exist," but
only such as are known to exist at the time the application is
made for the patent, and not at the date of the patent. When

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER MINING CO. 681
Opinion of the Court.

such a vein or lode is known to exist within the boundaries of
the placer claim, the application for a patent, which does not
include also an application for the vein or lode, is to be construed as a conclusive declaration that the claimant has no
right of possession to it; but where the existence of a vein or
lode in a placer claim is not known at the time of the application for a patent, that instrument will convey all valuable
mineral and other deposits subsequently found within the
boundaries of the claim.
In the present case the evidence produced establishes substantially these facts: That in 1879 the defendant Sawyer
prospected the ground which constitutes the claims, in search
of mines of gold and silver; that in this work he was assisted
by three or four men whom he employed; that he made
several excavations of ten feet in depth to find lodes which,
he was told, existed within the premises; and that he made
several lode locations, and filed and recorded certificates
thereof. Subsequently, in October of that year, he found
himself embarrassed by debts owing to his men, and for supplies; and he applied to Mr. Stevens, mentioned above, to purchase an interest in a claim which he held. It does not appear
that any purchase was made of that interest, but Stevens
agreed to look at the lode claims on the ground subsequently
entered as placer claims. Accordingly, the two, Stevens and
Sawyer, went over the ground together, and examined the
excavations made, and also the timber on the land. After
such examination, Stevens stated to Sawyer that it was a
waste of money to excavate for lode claims on that ground;
that its formation was not such as contained lodes; that the
rock was not granite, but gneiss; and advised him to take it
up as placer ground, provided a way could be traced to bring
water for its working from a neighboring stream called Lake
Creek, adding that the course he thus recommended would
accomplish two purposes-it would save the timber, and
enable him to successfully work the placer. Afterwards, and
in pursuance of this advice, Sawyer concluded to abandon the
lode locations he had made and to file an application for
patents for placer claims, Stevens and Mr. Leiter, who appears

OCTOBER TERAM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to have been a friend both of Stevens and Sawyer, agreeing
to advance the money required to make the necessary explorations and improvements and the application for the patents,
and Sawyer agreeing to do the necessary work, and when the
patents were obtained to convey the claims to them, reserving
a share foi himself. Stevens was examined as a witness in the
case, and in his testimony stated that he had known the ground
since June 1, 1879; that it had a rolling and uneven surface,
with gulches, ravines, and small streams running through it,
and was covered with a young and thrifty growth of timber;
that he had crossed and recrossed it several times, and carefully examined all the shafts, pit-holes and excavations, with
reference to their mineral value, and had come to the conclusion that it contained no lodes, veins, or ledges of rock in
place bearing gold, silver, lead, or other minerals of value;
that the only mineral found was float-gold in deposits of sand
and gyavel, and in his opinion it was placer mining ground;
and that he had made an examination with pocket instruments
and found that the waters of Lake Creek could be easily
brought in ditches and flumes to work the placers. He then
testified as follows: "After deciding it was placer ground,
and practicable to bring water on it, Mr. Leiter and myself
accepted a proposition from -Mr. Sawyer to furnish the money
in order to make the necessary explorations, improvements,
and entry of application for government patent; he, Sawyer,
to do all the work and obtain title, for a share in the property.
Our object and purpose in assisting Sawyer was to obtain an
interest in said placer land, being convinced of its character
as such."
The deputy United States surveyor, who made two surveys
of the ground included within the placer claims, one for the
parties interested in locating the claims, and the other the
official survey, on which the application for the patents was
based, by direction of the surveyor general, was also examined
as a witness, and he, testified that in September or October,
1879, he made an examination of the ground for the purpose
of determining whether any veins, lodes, or ledges of mineral
in rock in place, or gold bearing rock, had been discovered

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.

683

Opinion of the Court.

upon it, and for that purpose had explored every pit, cut and
shaft on the property, and found that there had not been discovered in them any mineral-bearing rock in place; and that,
at the time he made both surveys, and at the time the applications for the patents"were made, there was not known to exist
within the placer claims any lode or ledge of rock bearing
gold, silver, or other valuable deposit. He further testified
that he had resided for several years in Colorado, and was
familiar with placer, lode, and vein formations.
In pursuance of the arrangement with Stevens and Leiter,
Sawyer performed the labor and made the improvements
necessary to obtain the placer patents, and applied for the
land as placer ground, (other parties who had joined with him
in making the locations having transferred their interests to
him,) stating that there were no known lodes or veins upon
the tracts; and such proceedings were then taken as are required by the Revised Statutes in such cases, and the only
adverse claim made to the applications having been withdrawn,
the patents were issued.
It appears very clearly from the evidence that no lodes or
veins were discovered by the excavations of Sawyer in his
prospecting work, and that his lode locations were made upon
an erroneous opinion, and not upon knowledge, that lodes
bearing metal were disclosed by them. It is not enough that
there may have been some indications by outcroppings on the
surface, of the existence of lodes or veins of rock in place
bearing gold or silver or other metal, to justify their designation as "known" veins or lodes. To meet that designation
the lodes or veins must be clearly ascertained, and be of such
extent as to render the land more valuable on that account,
and justify their exploitation. Although pits and shafts had
been sunk in various places, and what are termed in mining
cross-cuts had been run, only loose gold and small nuggets had
been found, mingled with earth, sand and gravel. Lodes and
veins in quartz or other rock in place bearing gold or silver or
other metal were not disclosed when the application for the
patents was made. The subsequent discovery of lodes upon
the ground, and their successful working, does not affect the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

good faith of the application. That must be determined by
what was known to exist at the time. It is not, therefore, a
fault to be charged upon Sawyer that he abandoned his original lode locations after he had discovered that they were
worthless, in order to make-locations of placer claims. There
was evidence that loose gold existed in the sand and gravel on
the ground in many places, and had been washed from the
earth; and it was the judgment of experienced miners that if
water could be brought from a neighboring creek the ground
could be successfully worked as placer ground.
It may be, as contended, that Stevens was moved in his
advice to Sawyer as much by the existence of the valuable
growth of timber on the land as by the existence of gold in
the ground, and that the timber could be advantageously used
by the Iron Silver Mlining Company. If such were the fact,
it would not affect the applicant's claim to a patent. Probably in a majority of cases where a placer claim is located,
other matters than the existence of valuable deposits of mineral enter into the estimate of its worth. Its accessibility to
places where supplies and medical attendance can be obtained
for the men engaged in working upon it, and timber secured
to support the drifting or tunnelling which may be necessary;
the facility with which water can be brought to wash the mineral from the earth, sand, or gravel with which it may be
mingled; and the uses to which the land may be subjected
when the claim is exhausted, may be proper subjects of consideration. A prudent miner acting wisely in taking up a
claim, whether for a placer mine or for a lode or vein, would
not overlook such circumstances, and they may in fact control
his action in making the location. If the land contains gold
or other valuable deposits in loose earth, sand or gravel which
can be secured with profit, that fact will satisfy the demand
of the government as to the character of the land as placer
ground, whatever the incidental advantages it may offer to the
applicant for a patent. Nor do we consider it a suspicious
circumstance, or even surprising, that when Sawyer came to
convey to Stevens and Leiter, pursuant to his arrangement
with them, a part of the claims, he should have retained those

UNITED STATES v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.

685

Opinion of the Court.

portions which he had originally taken up as lode claims; for
though shown not to be such claims in fact, they constituted
ground which he had examined, and believed to be valuable
for gold, having in some instances exhibited traces of it. The
question respecting the whole proceedings taken upon that
arrangement is one of good faith towards the government in
securing thereby its patents, and that we deem to be fully
established.
We have gone over with great care all the testimony
adduced by the government in the case; and our conclusion is
that it wholly fails to substantiate the charges of false and
fraudulent representations to obtain the patents, or of a conspiracy by the patentee and others to defraud the government.
We perceive nothing in what was said or done by him, or by
those who advised and assisted him, which justifies the imputations of the government upon his or their conduct.
The sufficiency of the work performed and improvements
made upon each of the claims patented was shown by the
certificate of the surveyor general of the United States for
the State in which the claims are situated. The statute makes
his certificate evidence of that fact. Rev. Stat. § 2325. It
declares, where publication is made of the application for a
patent, that "the claimant at the time of filing this application, or at any time thereafter, within the sixty days of publication, shall file with the register a certificate of the United
States surveyor general that five hundred dollars' worth of
labor has been expended or improvements made upon the
claim by himself or grantors." He was fully informed of the
character and value of the labor performed and improvements
made through his deputy, who had personally examined
them and estimated their cost, and also secured affidavits of
others on that subject. Their sufficiency, both as to amount
and character, were matters to be determined by him from
his own observation, or from the testimony of parties having
knowledge of the subject; and in such cases, where there are
no fraudulent representations to him respecting them by the
patentee, his determination, unless corrected by the Land Department before patent, must be taken as conclusive. His

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

estimate here in both particulars was subject to be examined
by the Department before the patents were issued; and any
alleged error in it cannot afterwards be made ground for impeaching their validity.
Deeree afirrned.

STACHELBERG v. PONCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAINE.
No. 51. Argued October 31, 1888.-Decided December 17, 1888.

On the proofs; Held, that the complainant's right to the exclusive use
of his alleged trade-mark is not established; and that he is not entitled
to the equitable relief which he asks for in this suit.

THIS was a trade-mark case. The principal relief asked by
the appellants, who were the plaintiffs below, was a decree
enjoining the appellee, who was the defendant below, his
agents and servants, from using as a trade-name in their
business of manufacturing and selling cigars, the words
"Normandie," or "E. P. Normanda," or "La Normanda," or
"lormanda;" such use of those words being, it was alleged,
a violation of the right of the plaintiffs to the exclusive use
of the words "La Normandi" and "Normandi" in their
business of manufacturing and selling cigars of a certain
kind.
It was alleged, among other things, that one Asher Bijur,
of New York, was engaged from 1858 to 1865 in manufacturing and packing cigars of various grades and shapes,
some of which, of superior quality, were called "La Normahdi," and were put up in boxes containing two hundred
and fifty each, labelled and branded with those words; that,
being of ie stock, skilfully made, and of a shape that
pleased the eye, his cigars, of that kind, became widely
known, gaining great favor with the public, particularly in
the New England States; that the first use by any one,

