OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Without further discussion of the evidence, and without intimating what ought to be the verdict upon the issue of contributory negligence, we are of opinion that the court erred
in not submitting to the jury to determine whether the
plaintiff in forgetting, or not recalling, at the precise moment,
the fact that the car from which he attempted to let himself
down was the one from which a step was missing, was in
the exercise of the degree of care and caution which was
incumbent upon a man of ordinary prudence in the same
calling, and under the circumstances in which he was placed.
If he was, then he was not guilty of contributory negligence
that would defeat his right of recovery.
Judgment is reversel and the case remanded, with direotions
to grant a new trial.

NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SURIEME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAA.
No 990. Argued October 11, 1888.-Decided October 22, 1888.

A State statute which requires locomotive engineers and other persons,
employed by a railroad company in a capacity which calls for the ability
to distinguish and discriminate between color signals, to be examined in
this respect from time to time by a tribunal established for the purpose,
and which exacts a fee from the company for the service of examination,
does not deprive the company of its property without due process of law,
and, so far as it affects iiterstate commerce, is within the competency of
the State to enact, until Congress legislates on the subject.
The provision in Article 1.. of the Constitution of the United States which
provides that the trial of all crimes" shall be held in the State where the
said crimes shall have been committed," relates only to trials in Federal
Courts, and has no application to trials in State Courts.

THE case is stated in the opin ion of the court.

Ab'r. Oscalr R. Hundey for plaintiff in error.

NASHVILLE &c.

RAILWAY v. ALABAMA.

Opinion of. the Court.

-M'. T.2. McOlellan, Attorney General of the State of Alabama, for defendant in error.
Mn. JusTicE

FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

A statute of Alabama which took effect on the first of June,
1887, "for the protection of the travelling public against acci-'
dents caused by color blindness and defective vision," declares
that all persons afflicted with color blindness and loss of visual
power to the extent therein defined are "disqualified from
serving on railroad lines within the State in the capacity of
locomotive engineer, fireman, train conductor, brakeman, station agent, switchman, flagman, gate tender, or signal man, or
in any other position which requires the use or discrimination
of form or color signals," and makes it a misdemeanor punishable by fine of not less than ten nor more than fifty dollars
for each offence, for a person to serve in any of the capacities
mentioned without having obtained a certificate of fitness for
his position in accordance with the provisions of the act. It
provides for the appointment by the governor of a suitable
number of qualified medical men throughout the State to carry
the law into effect; and for the examination by them of persons
to be employed in any of the capacities mentioned; prescribes
rules to govern the action of the examiners, and allows them
a fee of three dollars for the examination of each person. It
declares that re-examinations shall be made once in every five
years, and whenever sickness, or fever, or accidents, calculated
to affect the visual organs have occurred to the parties, or a
majority of the board may direct; that the examinations and
re-examinations shall be made at the expense of the railroad
companies; and that it shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by
a fine of not less than fifty nor more than five hundred dollars
for each offence, for any such company to employ a person in
any of the capacities mentioned, who does not possess a certificate of fitness therefor from the examiners in so far as color
blindness and the visual organs are concerned.
The defendant, The Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis
Railway Company, is a corporation created under the laws of
VOL. cLxvni-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of th6 Court.

Tennessee, and runs its trains from Nashville in that State to
various points in other States, twenty-four miles of its line
being in Alabama, two miles in Georgia, seven in Kentucky,
and four hundred and sixty-four in Tennessee.
On the 2d of August, 1887, one James Moore was employed by the company as a train conductor on its road, and
acted in that capacity, in the county of Jackson, in Alabama,
without having obtaired a certificate of his fitness so far as
color blindness and visual powers were concerned, in accordance with the law of that State. For this employment the
company was indicted in the Circuit Court of the State for
Jackson County, under the statute mentioned, and on its plea
of not guilty was convicted, and fined fifty dollars. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the.State the judgment was
affirmed, and to review it the case is brought on error to this
court.
It was contended in the court below, among other things,
that the statute of Alabama was repugnant to the power
vested in Congress to regulate commerce among the States,
and that it violated the clause of the Fifth Amendment which
declares that no person shall be deprived of his property without due process of lavT. The same positions are urged in this
court, with the further position that the statute is in conflict
with the clause in the third article of .the Constitution, which
provides that the trials of all crimes shall be held in the State
where they were committed.
The first question thus presented is covered by the decision
of this court rendered at the last' term in Smith v. Alabama,
124 U. S. 465. In that case the law adjudged to be valid
required as a condition for a person to act as an engineer of
a railroad train in that State, that he should be examined as
to his qualifications by a board appointed for that purpose,
and licensed if satisfied as to his qualifications, and made it a
misdemeanor for any one to act as engineer who violated its
provisions. The act now umder consideration only requires
an examination and I cense of parties, to be employed on railroads in certain specified capacities, with reference to one
particular qualificatioa, that relating to his visual organs;

NASHVILLE &c. ]RAILWAY v. ALABAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

but this limitation does not affect the application of the decision. If the State could lawfully require an examination
as to the general fitness of a person to be employed on a railway, it could of course lawfully require an examination as to
his fitness in some one particular. Color blindness is a defect
of a vital character in railway employ~s in the various capacities mentioned. Ready and accurate perception by them of
colors, and discrimination between them, are essential to safety
of the trains, and, of course, of the. passengers and property
they carry. It is generally by signals of different colors, to
each of which a separate and distinct meaning is attached,
that the movement of trains is directed. Their starting, their
stopping, their speed, the condition of switches, the approach
of other trains, and the tracks in such case which each should
take, are governed by them. Defects of vision in such cases
on the part of any one employed may lead to fatal results.
Color blindness, by which is meant either an imperfect perception of colors, or an inability to recognize them at all, or
to distingnish between colors, or between some of them, is a
defect much more common than is generally supposed. Medical treatises of recognized merit on the subject represent as the
result of extended examinations that a fraction over four per
cent of males are color blind. With some the defect is congenital, with others brought on by occupations in which they have
been engaged, or by vicious habits in the use of liquors or food
in which they have indulged. It presents itself in a great
variety of forms, from an imperfect perception of colors to
absolute inability to recognize them at all.
Such being the proportion of males thus affected, it is a
matter of the greatest importance to safe railroad transportation of persons and property that strict examination be made
as to the existence of this defect in persons seeking employment on railroads in any of the capacities mentioned.
It is conceded that the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is plenary; that, as incident to it, Congress
may legislate as to the qualifications, duties, and liabilities of
employ~s and others on railway trains engaged in that commerce; and that such legislation will supersede any state

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

action on the subject.

]But until such legislation is had, it is

clearly within the corapetency of the States to provide against

accidents on trains wvhilst within their limits. Indeed, it is a
principle fully recognized by decisions of State and Federal
courts, that wherever there is any business in which, either
from the products created or the instrumentalities used, there
is danger to life or pioperty, it is not only within the power
of the States, but it is among their plain duties, to make provision against accidents likely to follow in such business, so
that the dangers attEnding it may be guarded against so far
as is practicable.
In Srmitk v. Alabama, this court, recognizing previous decisions where it had been held that it was competent for the
State to provide redress for wrongs done and injuries committed on its citizens by parties engaged in the business of
interstate commerce, notwithstanding the power of Congress
over those subjects, very pertinently inquired: "What is there
to forbid the State, in the further exercise of the same jurisdiction, to prescribe the precautions and safeguards foreseen
to be necessary and proper to prevent by anticipation those
wrongs and injuries which, after they have been inflicted, it is
admitted the State hrps power to redress and punish? If the
State has power to secure to passengers conveyed by common
carriers in their vehicles of transportation a right of action for
the recovery of damages occasioned by the negligence of the
carrier in not providing safe and suitable vehicles, or employ~s
of sufficient skill and knowledge, or in not properly conducting and managing t ae act of transportation, why may not
the State also impose, on behalf of the public, as additional

means of prevention, penalties for the non-observance of these
precautions? Why may it not define and declare what particular things shall be done and observed by such a carrier
in order to insure the safety of the persons and things he carries, or of the persons and property of others liable to be
affected by them?" Of course but one answer can be made
to these inquiries, for clearly what the State may punish or
afford redress for, when done, it may seek by proper precautions in advance ta prevent. And the court in that case

NASHVILLE &c. RAILWAY v. ALABAMIA.
Opinion of the Cort.

held that the provisions in the statute of Alabama were not
strictly regulations of interstate commerce, but parts of that
body of the local law which governs the relation between carriers of passengers and merchandise and the public who employ them, which are not displaced until they come in conflict
with an express enactment of Congress in the exercise of its
power over commerce, and that until so displaced they remain
as the law governing carriers in the discharge of their obligations, whether engaged in purely internal commerce of the
State, or in commerce among the States. The same observations may be made with respect to the provisions of the state
law for the examination of parties to be employed on railways
with respect to their powers of vision. Such legislation is
not directed against commerce, and only affects it incidently,
and therefore cannot be called, within the meaning of the
Constitution, a regulation of commerce. As said in ,Sherlock
v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 104, legislation by a State of that
character, "relating to the rights, duties, and liabilities of
citizens, and only indirectly and remotely affecting the operations of commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens within
its territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or water, or engaged in commerce, foreign or interstate, or in any other
pursuit." In our judgment the statute of Alabama under consideration falls within this class.
The second position of the plaintiff in error, that the state
statute is repugnant to the provision of article third of the
Constitution, which declares that the trial of all crimes shall
be held in the State where they have been committed, is
readily disposed of. The provision has reference only to trials
in the Federal courts; it has no application to trials in the
state courts.
As to the third position of the plaintiff in error, assuming
that counsel intended to rely upon the Fourteenth instead of
the Fifth Amendment, (as the latter only applies a limit to
Federal authority, not restricting the powers of the State,) we
do not think it tenable. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243;
Livingston v. -Noore,7 Pet. 469. Requiring railroad compafiies
to pay the fees allowed for the examination of parties who

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

are to serve on their railroads in one of the capa~cities mentioned, is not depriving them of property without due process
of law. It is merely imposing upon them the expenses necessary to ascertain whether their employ~s possess the physical
qualifications required by law.
Judgment afirmed.

LIVINGSTON COUNTY, MlISSOURI v. FIRST NATIONAL BAN-K OF PORTSMOUTH, NEW HAAM?-

SHIRE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUri'

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No, 195.

Submittel October 9, 1888. -Decided

October 29, 1888.

In this case bonds issued by Livingston County in Missouri, on behalf of
Chillicothe township, in payment of a subscription to the stock of the
Saint Louis, Council Bluffs & Omaha Railroad Company were held valid.
The vote of the township, given in May, 1870, was in favor of the issue of
the bonds to the Chillicothe & Omaha Railroad Company, a Missouri corporation. Afterwards, under a statute existing at the time of the vote,
that company was consolidated with an Iowa corporation, under the
name of the corporatiou to which the bonds were subsequently issued.
Held, that the consolidation was authorized and that the privilege of receiving the subscription passed to the consolidated company.
The vote having contempla,;ed the construction of the railroad which the
consolidated company built, there was no diversion from the purpose
contemplated by the vote, in the fact that the stock was subscribed, and
the bonds issued, to the .,onsolidated company.
The doctrine of Harshmar.v. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569, and County of
Bates v. W]inters, 97 U. S. 83, that a County Court in Missouri could not,
on a vote by a township to issue bonds to a corporation named, issue
the bonds to a corporatian formed by the consolidation of that corporation with another corjporation, would not be, if applied here, a sound
doctrine.
On the recitals in the bonds, and the other facts in this case, the county
was estopped from urging, as against a bona fide holder of the bonds,
the existence of any mere irregularity in the making of the subscription
or the issuing of the bonds.

