OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. REISINGER.
OF DIVISION OF OPINION 'FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENN-

CERTIFICATE

SYLVANIA.
No. 59. Submitted November 1, 1.888. -Decided November 19, 1888.
Section 13 of the Revised Statutes, which enacts that "the repeal of any
statute shall not have the effect to release or extinguish any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under such statute, unless the repealing
act shall so expressly provide, and such statute shall be treated as still
remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or
prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture, or liability,"
clearly excepts from the operation of c. 181, § I of the act of July 4, 1884,
23 Stat. 98, 99, repealing the act of June 20, 1878, "relating to claim
agents and attorneys in pension cases," 20 Stat. 243, c. 367, all offences
committed before the passage of that repealing act.
The words "penalty," "liability" and "forfeiture," as used in Rev. Stat.,
§ 13, are synonymous with the word "punishment," in connection with
crimes of the highest grade, and appfy to offences against the act of June
20, 1878, 20 Stat. 243, c. 367, relating to claim agents and attorneys in
pension cases.

THsS case came before the court on the following certificate
of division in opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court:
"In the Circuit Court of the United States, Western District
of Pennylvania.
"The United States
v."
.
No. 1. May Term, 1885.
Roe iReisinger.
"At a Circuit Court of the United States, held at the city
of Pittsburg, for the Western District of Pennsylvania, on the
5th day of August, 1885, before the Elon. William MclKennan
and Hon. M. W. Acheson, judges, this cause came on to be
heard, and was argued by counsel; and on the hearing, a question occurring, upon which the judges were divided in opinion,
upon the request and motion of the United State§, by its district attorney and counsel, Win. A. Stone, Esq., the point upon
which the judges disagreed is now (during the same term) by

UNITED STATES v. REISINGER.

. 399

Statement of the Case.

them hereinafter stated, to the end that the same may be
certified to the Supreme Court at their next session for final
decision.
"Section 13 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: ' The
repeal of any statute shall not have the effect to release or
extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such statute, unless the repealing act shall so expressly provide, and such statute shall be treated as still remaining in
force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or
prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.'
"By the act of Congress entitled ' An act relating to claim
agents and attorneys in pension cases' approved June 20th,
1878, 20 Stat. 243, c. 367, it is enacted:
"'It shall be unlawful for any attorney, agent, or other person, to demand or receive for his services in a pension case a
greater sum than ten dollars.'
"And by the act of Congress approved Mkfarch 3d, 1881, 21
Stat. 408, Richaxdson Suppl't Rev. Stat. 386, it is enacted as
follows:
"' And the provisions of Section 5485 of the Revised Statutes
shall be applicable to any person who shall violate the provisions of an act entitled "An act relating to claim agents and
attorneys in pension cases," approved June 20th, 1878.'
"Said § 5485 is as follows:
"' Any agent or attorney, or any other person instrumental
in prosecuting any claim for pension or bounty land, who
shall directly or indirectly contract for, demand, or receive or
retain any greater compensation for his services, or instrumentality in prosecuting a claim for pension or bounty land, than
is provided in the Title pertaining to pensions or who shall
wrongfully withhold from a pensioner or claimant the whole
or any part of a pension or claim allowed and due such pensioner or claimant, or the land warrant issued to any such
claimant, shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall for every such offence be fined
not exceeding five hundred dollars or imprisonment at hard
labor not exceeding two years, or both, at the discretion of the
court.'

400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"By the act of Congress approved July 4th, 1884, 23 Stat. 98,
c. 181, § 1, it is (inter alia) enacted, 'That the act entitled "An
act relating to claim agents and attorneys in pension cases,"
approved June 20th, 1878, is hereby repealed: Ppovided,however, that the rights of the parties shall not be abridged or
affected as to contracts in pending cases, as provided for in
said act; but such contracts shall be deemed to be and remain
in full force and virtue, and shall be recognized as contemplated by said act.'
"In this state of the law, on the 14th day of April, 1885, an
indictment was found in this case against -the defendant, IRoe
Reisinger, charging him with having violated the said act
of Congress entitled ' An act relating to claim agents and
attorneys in pension cases,' approved June 20th, 1878, in
that, on the 8th day of January, 1883, at the county of Crawford, in the district aforesaid, being the agent, attorney, and
person instrumental in prosecuting a claim for pension for one
Samuel Dixon, he did receive for his services in that behalf a
greater sum than is provided in and by said act, to wit, the
sum of $100; and also in that on the first day of January,
1883, at the county and district aforesaid, being the agent,
attorney, and person instrumental in prosecuting a claim for
pension for one Elijah O'Daniels, he did receive for his services
in that behalf a greater sum than is provided in and by said
act, to wit, the sum of $50.
."To which indictment the defendant did demur, on the
ground that the statute creating the offence set forth in the
indictment and fixing a punishment therefor had been repealed without saving the right to the United States to prosecute for offences committed in violation of said act prior to
the repeal of the same. And the gpvernment joining in said
demurrer, it occurred as a question whether the defendant
could be legally convicted and punished under the said indictment and the acts of Congress aforesaid, the said recited act
of June 20th, 1878, entitled ' An act relating to claim agents
and attorneys in pension cases,' having been expressly repealed by the act of July 4th, 1384, without any saving clause
or reservation of the right to prosecute or punish for offences

UNITED STATES v. REISINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

in violation of said act of June 20th, 1878, committed prior to
the repeal thereof.
"Upon which question the undersigned judges are divided in
opinion; and upon the request of the United States, by its
district attorney and counsel, they make the foregoing statement and execute this certificate; and it is ordered that
the same, together with a copy of the record and proceedings in the cause, be certified under the seal of the court
to the Supreme Court at their next 'session, according to
law."
.Xl'.Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M . JUSTIOE LrA1 , after stating the facts as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded that, under the general principles of the
common law, the repeal of a penal statute operates as a remission of all penalties for violations of it committed before its
repeal, and a release from prosecution therefor after said repeal, unless there be either a clause in the repealing statute,
or a provision of some other statute, expressly authorizing such
prosecution. In this case the court is of the opinion that
§ 13, Rev. Stat., contains such provision. It reads as follows:
"The repeal of any statute shall not have the effect to release
or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such statute, unless the repealing act shall so expressly provide;
and such statute shall be treated as still remaining in force for
the purpose of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture, or liability."
This section, we think, clearly excepts offences committed
before the passage of the repealing act of 1884. To show
this, it is only necessary to read the act of 1884 in connection
with § 13, IRev. Stat., as one act. It would then read substantially as follows: "Be it enacted, etc., That the act entitled ' An act relating to claim agents and attorneys in pension
cases,' approved June 20, 1878, is hereby repealed: Provided,
that said repeal shall not -have the effect to release or extinVOL. exxvm-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

guish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred thereunder,
and that the same shall be treated as still remaining in force
for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or prosecution
for the enforcement of such penalty or liability."
The only ground upon which the correctness of this interpretation may be doubted is, that the words "penalty," "liability," and "forfeiture" do not apply to crimes, and the
punishments therefor, such as we are now considering. We
cannot assent to this. These words have been used by the
great masters of crown law and the elementary writers as
synonymous with the word "punishment," in connection with
crimes of the- highest grade. Thus, Blackstone speaks of
criminal law as that "branch of jurisprudence which teaches
of the nature, extent, and degrees of every crime, and adjusts
to it its adequate and necessary penalty." Alluding to the
importance of this department of legal science, he says: "The
enacting of penalties to which e,,whole nation shall be subject
should be calmly and maturely considered." Referring to the
unwise policy of inflicting capital punishment for certain comparatively slight offences, he speaks of them as "these outrageous penalties," and repeatedly refers to laws that inflict the
"penalty of death." He refers to other acts prescribing certain punishments for treason as "acts of pains and penalties."
That the legislature intended that this 13th section should
apply to all offences is shown by § 5598, Rev. Stat., under the
title of ":Repealed Provisions," which is as follows: "All
offences committed and all penalties or forfeitures incurred
under any statute embraced in said revision prior to said
repeal, may be prosecuted and punished in the same manner
and with the same effect as if said repeal had not been made."
It was the obvious intention of § 13, Rev. Stat., to extend
this provision to the repeal of any statute not embraced in
such revision.
The views we have expressed find support in the case of lUnited
States v. UMrici, 3 Dillon, 532, 534, which was an indictment
for conspiring to defraud the government of internal revenue
taxes. It became necessary there to determine the meaning
of the words "penalty," "forfeiture," " liability," and "prose-

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST CO.
Syllabus.

cution," in § 13 of the Revised Statutes. The court, speaking
by Mr. Justice. Miller, said: "But, without attempting to go
into a precise technical definition of each of these words, it is
my opinion that they were used by Congress to include all
forms of punishment for crime; and, as strong evidence of
this view, I found, during the progress of the argument, and
called the attention of the counsel to a section, which prescribed fine and imprisonment for two years, wherein Congress used the words: I Shall be liable to a penalty of not less
than one thousand dollars, . .
and to imprisonment not
more than two years.' Moreover, any man using common
language might say, and very properly, that Congress had
subjected a party to a liability, and, if asked what liability,
might reply, a liability to be imprisoned. This is a very general use of language, and surely it would not be understood as
denoting a civil proceeding. I think, therefore, that this word
'liability' is intended to cover every form of punishment to
which a man subjects himself, by violating the common laws
of the country. Besides, as my brother Treat reminds me,
the word 'prosecution' is used in this section, and that usually
denotes a criminal proceeding."
For the rea.ons we have given, the question, presented by the
eertijfcate is answered in the alfirmative.

BROWN v. GUARANTEE TRUST AND SAFE DEPOSIT COMPAJNY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 20.

Submitted April 25, 1888.-Decided November 19, 1888.

It is not indispensable that all the parties to a suit in equity should have an
interest in all the 'natters contained in the suit; it will be sufficient, in
order to avoid the objection of multifariousness, if each party has an
interest in some material matters in the suit, and they are connected with
the others.

