ESTIS v. TRABUE.
Syllabus.

ceeding referred to in the bill of complaint, to be returned to
this court. As it is, we do not know that Payne, Huntington
& Co. did record their mortgages, nor whether they contained
the pact de non, alienando. As the case stands before us
it does not appear that they were ever recorded, or that they
contained the pact. If neither of these things took place, then
the complainant is entitled to at least a portion of the relief
which he seeks. He is entitled to have the property foreclosed
and subjected to the payment of his mortgage. For, in that
case, being a prior mortgagee from the time of recording the
act of sale, he is not bound by the proceedings on the executory
process to which he was not a party. Dupasseurv. Rochereau,
21 Wall. 130; Jackson v. ludeling, 21 Wall. 616. He is
hardly in a position to ask for a rescission of his sale to Johnson, whether his privilege and mortgage have been prescribed
or not, for it has been held by the Supreme Court of Louisiana
that the parties to the sale and the rescission must be the same.
Augusta Ins. Co. v. Packwood, 9 La. Ann. 7'4. The suit is now
properly against Payne, as well as the executor of Johnson,
and Payne is not one of the parties to the act of sale. However, on this point we give no opinion.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be 'reversed, and the
cause r'emandedwith instructions to overrule the dernurrer,
and to give the defendants leave to answer the bill, with
such further proceedings as law and equity may require.

ESTIS v. TRABIUE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 50. Argued and submitted October 31, 1888.

Decided November 19, 1888.

A writ of error, in which both the plaintiffs in error and the defendants in
error are designated merely by the name of a firm, containing the expression "& Co." is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, but, as
the record discloses the names of the persons composing the firms, the
VOL. CxxvfII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
writ is, under § 1005 of the Revised Statutes, amendable by this court,
and will not be dismissed.
Where the judgment below is a money judgment against ',the claimants"
and their two sureties in a bond, naming them, jointly, and the sureties
do not join in the writ of error, and there is no proper summons and
severance, the defect is a substantial one, which this court cannot
amend, and by reason of which it has no jurisdiction to try the case, and
it will, of its own motion, dismiss the case, without awaiting the action
of a party.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
r.1. 0. _Reynolds for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
.A&. John .Vason Brown for defendants in error. -Y.
Sullivan filed a brief for same.
Alp. JUsTICE BLATcHFOHD

w:

V7.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Mississippi, brought to review a judgment recovered on the 22d of April, 1885, in the
name of Trabue, Davis & Co., as plaintiffs, against Estis,
Doan & Co., as claimants. The citation in the case is addressed to Trabue, Davis & Co., and states that Estis, Doan &
Co. are plaintiffs in error, and Trabue, Davis & Co. are defendants in error, and refers to the judgment as one rendered
against Estis, Doan & Co. The supersedeas bond refers to
the judgment as one rendered in favor of Trabue, Davis &
Co., plaintiffs, against Estis, Doan & Co., claimants; and to the
writ of error as one obtained by Estis, Doan & Co., claimants;
and it purports to be executed by J. t. Estis and J. H. Doan,
members composing the firm of Estis, Doan & Co., as principals, and by two sureties; and Trabue, Davis & Co. are named
as the obligees.
The original suit was an attachment suit br6ught in the
name of Trabue, Davis & Co., against one B. F. McRae, in
the Circuit Court of Tishomingo County, Mississippi, on the
allegation that McRae had disposed of his property with intent to defraud his creditors. An attachment was issued,

"ESTIS v. TRABUE.
Opinion of the Court.

and was served by the sheriff upon, among other things, certain personal property described by him in his return. After
such return, a claim, by affidavit, was made to the personal
property so attached, as the property of Estis, Doan & Co.,
and a forthcoming bond was given, executed in the -name of
Estis, Doan & Co., as principals, and C. F. Robinson and
John W. Dillard, as sureties, to Trabue, Davis & Co., as obligees, conditioned for the payment by Estis, Doan & Co., to
Trabuel Davis & Co., of all such damages as might be awarded
against Estis, Doan & Co., in case their claims should not be
sustained, and for the delivery of the property to the sheriff
if their claim to it should be determined against them. On
the back of the bond was indorsed an affidavit made by J. H.
Doan, setting forth that he and J. N. Estis were the members
who composed the firm of Estis, Doan & Co. This bond was
approved by the sheriff, and the property was returned to
Estis, Doan & Co.
McRae filed a plea in abatement, denying the allegation of
the fraudulent assignment of his property, and then the members of the firm of Trabue, Davis & Co., giving their names
as James Trabue, William A. Davis, and Richard Trabue, and
stating themselves to be citizens of Kentucky and to have
been such at the time the suit was brought, and McRae to
have been and to be still a citizen of Mississippi, caused the
suit to be removed into the said District Court of the United
States. In that court a declaration was filed, in the name of
the said three members of the firm of Trabue, Davis & Co.,
against MciRae, claiming a recovery on sundry promissory
notes made by McRae. On the 13th of April, 1885, upon a
trial by a jury, a judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiffs against McRae, with interest at six per cent per annum
from that date, and costs. On the 22d of April, 1885, after
a trial before a jury of the issue between Trabue, Davis &
Co., as plaintiffs in the attachment, and Estis, Doan & Co., as
claimants of the attached property, a judgment was entered,
which is entitled "Trabue, Davis & Co. v. B. F. McRae,
def't, Estis, Doan & Co., cl'm'ts."
The judgment sets forth that the jury returned as their ver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

diet that they found "for the plaintiffs," and made ",the following estimate of the property," specifying it by items, substantially as in the return of the sheriff to the attachment
and in the affidavit of claim made on belalf of the claimants,
but with different estimates of valuation. The judgment then
proceeds: "It is, therefore, considered and adjudged by the
court, that the plaintiffs recover of the claimants and 0. F.
Robinson and John W. Dillard, their sureties in their forthcoming bond, the sum of six thousand and three hundred dollars,
together with the costs, both in the suit of the plaintiffs
against the defendant B. F. McRae, and the costs incident to
the trial of this issue to satisfy the judgment for said sum of
six thousand and three hundred dollars rendered in favor of the
plaintiffs against the defendant D. F. McRae, in this court, on
the 13th day, of April, 1885; but this judgment to be satisfied upon the delivery to the marshal of the property described in the claimants' affidavit, or as much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment and the costs aforesaid, and
for which let execution issue against the said - and the sureties
aforesaid, unless the said property is delivered to the marshal
for the sale thereof by him for the satisfaction of the judgment and costs aforesaid, which property is hereby condemned
for the payment of said judgment and costs, to be sold under
writ of venditioni exp)onas aforesaid."

A bill of exceptions is found in the record, raising certain
questions as to the admission of evidence, and as to the charge
of the court to the jury; but, in the view -we take of the case,
these cannot be considered.
Since the filing of the transcript of the record in this court,
the death of J. H. Doan has been suggested, and an order
of this court made that the case proceed in the name of J. N.
Estis, as surviving partner of the firm of Estis, Doan & Co.
As before stated, the writ of error is taken out in the name
of Estis, Doan & Co., as plaintiffs in error, against Trabue,
Davis & Co., as defendants in error, without naming in the
writ of error the individuals who compose either of the firms.
It is well settled that this court cannot take jurisdiction of
a writ of error which describes the parties by the name of

ESTIS v. TRABUE.
Opinion of the Court.

a firm, or which designates some of the parties by the expression "& Co." or the expression "and others," or in any other
Deneale v. Ar'cler, 8
way than by their individual names.
Pet. 526; Hehts of Wilson v. Life & Fire Ins. Co., 12 Pet.
140; Davenpiort v. Plete]ter, 16 How. 142; .iussina v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355, 361, 362; Ailler v. Xo.enzie, 10 Wall.
582; Tue .Pr.otector,11 Wall. 82.
As, however, the record discloses the names of the individuals who compose both of the firms, the writ of error could be
amended in this court, under § 1005 of the Revised Statutes, being § 3 of the act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, 17 Stat.
196, which provides that this court may, at any time, in its
discretion and upon such terms as it may deem just, allow an
amendment of a writ of error "when the statement of the
title of the action or parties thereto in the writ is defective, if
the defect can be remedied by reference to the accompanying
record," "provided the defect has not prejudiced, and the
amendment will not injure, the defendant in error."
In XAlocre v. Sienonds, 100 U. S.145, an appeal was taken in
the name of a firm, but it was taken when § 1005 was in
force, and the bond showed the names of the individual members who composed the firm. This court said: "We are clear,
therefore, that the defect is one that may be amended under
the law as it now stands, and for that reason we will not
dismiss the appeal."
But there is another difficulty in the present case, which
cannot be reached by an amendment in or by this court under
§ 1005. The judgment is distinctly one against "the claimants, and C. F. Robinson and John W. Dillard, their sureties in their forthcoming bond," jointly, for a definite sum
of money. There is nothing distributive in the judgment, so
that it can be regarded as containing a separate judgment
against the claimants and another separate judgment against
the sureties, or as containing a judgment against the sureties
payable and enforceable only on a failure to recover the
amount from the claimants; and execution is awarded against
all of the parties jointly. In such a case the sureties have the
right to a writ of error. Exoparte Sawyer, 21 Wall. 235, 240.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

It is well settled that all the parties against whom a judgment of this kind is entered must join in a writ of error, if
any one of them takes out such writ; or else there must be a
proper summons and severance, in order to allow of the prosecution of the writ by any less than the whole number of the
Williams
defendants against whom the judgment is entered.
v. MnOwings
414;
11
Wheat.
v. Bank of the United States,
Co.,
Ins.
Fire
and
Life
v.
of
Wilson,
-Heirs
cannon, T Pet. 399;
Strader,
v.
Smyth
521;
Pet.
16
v.
Daniel,
12 Pet. 140; Todd
12 How. 327; Davenport v. Fletcher,16 How. 142; -Aussinav.
Cavazos, 20 How. 280, 289; Sheldon v. Cliflon, 23 How. 481,
484; . fasterson v. HZerndon, 10 Wall. 416; Hfampton v.
Rouse, 13 Wall. 187; Simpson v. Greeley, 20 Wall. 152;
Feielman v. Packard,108 U. S. 14.
Where there is a substantial defect in a writ of error, which
this court cannot amend, it has no jurisdiction to try the case.
Heirs of Wilson v. Life and Fire _ns. Co., 12 Pet. 140. It
will then, of its own motion, dismiss the case, without awaiting the action of a party. Hfilton v. -Dickinson,108 U. S.
165, 168.
For these reasons the writ of error is dismissed."

UNITED STATES v. KNOX.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF
No. 1209.

O

S.

Submitted November 5,188.-Decided November 19, 1888.

The Court of Claims has jurisdiction to hear and determine a claim of
a commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United States for keeping
a docket and making entries therein in regard to parties charged with
violations of the laws of the United States, which has been duly presented to the Circuit or District Court of the United States through the
district attorney, and which the court has refused to act upon, although
it may not have been presented at the Treasury Department and disallowed there; and the claimant is not obliged to resort to mandamus
upon the Circuit Court for his remedy.

