MYERS v. UNITED STATES.
90

Syllabus.

the Turkish Navy, was the accredited and recognized
representative of that government, possessed of adequate
authority to protest against the seizure and object to the
court's jurisdiction.
We agree with the view advanced by the appellee. The
Anne, 3 Wheat. 435, reaffirmed by The Sao Viceite, 260
U. S. 151, is enough to show that the immunity could not
have been successfully set up by a duly recognized consul,
representative of his sovereign in commercial matters, in
the ordinary course of his official duties, and there seems
no adequate reason to presume that the master of the Gal
Djemal had any greater authority in respect thereto.
Although an officer of the Turkish Navy, he was performing no naval or military duty, and was serving upon a
vessel not functioning in naval or military capacity but
engaged in commerce under charter to a private individual
who undertook to carry passengers and goods for hire.
He was not shown to have any authority to represent his
sovereign other than can be inferred from his position as
master and the circumstances specified in the stipulation
of facts.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

concurs in the result.

MYERS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 15S.

Submitted January 11, 1924.-Decided February 1S, 1924.

1. The power to punish contempt to enforce obedience inheres in all
courts, as essential to the performance of their functions. P. 1013.
2. Contempt proceedings are sui geiris,--neither civil actions nor
criminal prosecutions, as ordinarily understood, nor criminal Joro-e+cutions within the Sixth Amendment. Id.
3. The contempts defined by § 21 of the Clayton Act (October V5,
1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730.)-disohedience of a lawfifl writ, etc., by

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

264 U. S.

an act such as to constitute also a criminal offense,--are not, by
the Act, declared criminal. P. 104.
4. Proceedings to punish such a contempt, committed by disobedience of an injunction, are within the jurisdiction of the District,
Court in the division where the main cause is pending, although
the contempt was committed in another division of the district.
Jud. Code, §§ 51, 52 and 53, do not control the venue. Id.
Affirmed.

ERROR to an order of the District Court sentencing the
plaintiffs in error to fine and imprisonment for contumacious disobedience of an injunction.
Mr. Allyn Smith for plaintiffs in error.
The injunction was granted under the Clayton Act.
The prosecution was under the same act, and is purely a
statutory contempt, in no manner governed by the practice of the High Court of Chancery of England.
There is a vast difference between this statutory contempt and contempts under the "inherent power" doctrine. Under the English practice courts of law punished
contempts committed facie curio at once; and, in the
chancery court, contempts facie curie and those consisting
of failures to obey mandatory orders were punished without the intervention of a jury. All other contempts were
usually punished by indictment, and the right of trial by
jury was allowed. G(mpers v. United States, 233 U.
S. 604.
The privilege of a trial by jury is a matter of election on
the part of the defendant, under the Clayton Act. The
venue is controlled by Jud. Code, §§ 51, 52, 53.
A prosecution for contempt for violation of an injunction is a criminal offense. Gompers v. United States,
supra.
Section 22 of the act providing: "If . . . in the
judgment of the court, the alleged contempt be not
sufficiently purged, a trial shall be directed at a time and
place fixed by the court." does not give the judge the

MYERS v. UNITED STATES.
95

Argument for the United States.

power to direct the trial to be held at any place within
the district. Binkley v. United States, 282 Fed. 244.
distinguished.
The Sixth Amendment guarantees in all criminal prosecutions a speedy trial by an impartial jury of the State and
district where the crime shall have been committed. The
Judicial Code enforces this.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. George Ross Hull,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United
States.
I. This proceeding to punish for contempt, though it
follow the procedure prescribed by the Clayton Act, is
none the less an exercise of the inherent power of the court
lo enforce its decrees. United States v. Hudson, 7 Cr. 32;
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204; Kilbourn v. .ohnson,
103 U. S. 168; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; In re
Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Watson v. Williams, 36 Miss. 331;
Cartwright's Case, 114 Mass. 230; Thomas v. Cincbinati,
etc., Ry. Co., 62 Fed. 803; Little v. State, 90 Ind. 338.
It is urged, however, that when Congress laid its hand
upon this inherent power and legislated upon the subject
of contempt, restricting somewhat the scope of the power,
defining more clearly its character, prescribing the procedure to be followed or limiting the punishment to be inflicted, it destroyed the unique character of a contempt
and transformed it into a "statutory offense" comparable
in all respects with other crimes; and, in the instant case.
subject to the same provisions as to venue. We find.
however, that legislation upon the subject of contempt
has not, heretofore, been so construed. Judiciary Act,
1789, 1 Stat. 73, 83; Act March 2, 1831, 4 Stat. 487, 510:
Rev. Stats., § 725; Jud. Code, § 268; Ex parte Robinson.
19 Wall. 505; In re Chiles, 22 Wall. 157; Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402; Middlebrook v.
State, 43 Conn. 257.
97851*-2--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

264 U. S.

From 1831 until the passage of the Clayton Act in 1914
no right of trial by jury in cases of contempt was recognized. Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31;
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447;
In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564. Nor is it recognized today, excepting in the narrow field of cases in which the Clayton
Act specifically provides for it. Canoe Creek Coal Co. v.
Christinson, 281 Fed. 559. We have found no indication
in any of the opinions of this Court that it considered the
Acts of 1789 and 1831 as having any other effect than that
of defining and limiting an inherent and existing power
of the courts. Nor do we find anything in the purpose or
language of the Clayton Act which warrants the conclusion that it created a "statutory" contempt.
It made no change in the substantive law; but merely
prescribed a special procedure in the particular class of
cases indicated. The act is in derogation of the inherent
powers of the court, and cannot be extended by construction. Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443.
II. Section 53 of the Judicial Code, which fixes the
venue of prosecutions for crimes and offenses, does not
apply to prosecutions for contempt.
Contempt is analogous to crime. Ex parte Kearney, 7
Wheat. 38; Hayes v. Fischer, 102 U. S. 121; Gompers v.
United States, 233 U. S. 604.
But it differs from crime in numerous and important
particulars.
Contempts are generally classified as civil and criminal.
Bessett v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324; Gompers v. Bucks
$tove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418; In re Nevitt, 117 Fed.
448. But even those which are clearly criminal in character, differ from ordinary crimes.
1. Criminal contempts are tried summarily. Merchants Stock Co. v. Chicago Board of Trade, 201 Fed. 20.
2. There is no right of trial by jury, save as specifically provided by statute. Contempts are not "crimes"

MYERS v. UNITED STATES.
95

Argument for the United States.

within Art. 3, § 2, cl. 3 of the Constitution, which pro,vides that: "The trial of all crimes, except in cases of
impeachment, shall be by jury . . ." Eilenbecker v.
Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31; Interstate Commerce
Comm, v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; In. re Dcbs, 158 U.
S. 564; McCourtney v. United States, 291 Fed. 497. Nor
are they "criminal prosecutions" within the meaning of
the Sixth Amendment. United States v. Zucker, 161 U.
S. 475.
3. Courts having no criminal furisdiction may nevertheless punish for criminal contempt. In re Debs, 158 TT.
S. 564; Middlebrook v. State, 43 Conn. 257; Cartuwright's
Case, 114 Mass. 230; Rapalje, Contempt, 1884, 3.
4. The defendant may, without a waiver or consent, be
sentenced in his absence. Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289;
Middlebrook v. State, 43 Conn. 257.
5. An act which is a contempt of court and also a
crime may be punished summarily and by indictment;
and conviction or acquittal in one will not bar the other.
Chicago Directory Co. v. United States Directory Co.,
123 Fed. 194; Merchants Stock Co. v. Chicago Board of
Trade, 201 Fed. 20; O'Neil v. People, 113 Ill. App. 195.
See also § 25 of the Clayton Act.
6. A defendant is not entitled to be confronted with the
witnesses against him in open court. Merchants Stock
Co. v. Chicago Board of Trade, 201 Fed. 20.
7. It is doubtful whether the immunity from self-in"crimination afforded by the Fifth Amendment to defendants in "any criminal case" will relieve a defendant
in contempt from examination as a witness, so long as
he is not required to incriminate himself in any matter
other than the contempt inquired into. Id.
8. Finally, what is of particular importance in the case
at bar-the court against which a contempt is committed
has exclusive jurisdiction to punish it, and no change of
venue can be allowed. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564: Ex

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

parte Bradley, 7 Wall. 364; Binkley v. United States,
282 Fed. 244; McGibbony v. Lancaster, 286 Fed. 129;
Dunham v. United States, 289 Fed. 376; Commonwealth
v. Shecter, 250 Pa. St. 282; Penn v. Messinger, 1 Yeates,
2; Passmore Williamson's Case, 26 Pa. St. 9; People v.
County Judge, 27 Cal. 151; Phillips v. Welch, 12 Nev.
158; Rapalje, Contempt, 1884, § 13; New Orleans v.
Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387.
Because of these points of difference this Court, while
recognizing their criminal aspects, has held that contempt proceedings are neither civil nor criminal, but are
sui generis. O'Neal v. United States, 190 U. S. 36;
Bessette v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324.
To construe the statutes which fix the venue of criminal
offenses so as to embrace contempts would seriously curtail the power of the courts to enforce their orders.
The question here raised has been recently considered
and decided in favor of the contention now made by the
Government. Binkley v. United States, 282 Fed. 244;
McGibbony v. Lancaster, 286 Fed. 129; McCourtney v.
United States, 291 Fed. 497; Dunham v. United States,
289 Fed. 376.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Plaintiffs in error challenged the jurisdiction of the court
below-United States District Court, Western Division of
the Western District of Missouri-to try and punish them
for disobeying its order, upon the ground that the contumacious acts occurred in another division of the district.
Only the question of jurisdiction is here.
An information charged that plaintiffs in error wilfully
disobeyed the injunction lawfully issued in equity cause,
St. Louis, San FranciscoRailway Company, Complainant,
v. InternationalAssociation of Machinists, et al., Defendants, pending in the Western Division of the Western Dis-

MYERS v. UNITED STATES.
95

Opinion of the Court.

trict of Missouri, by attempting, within the Southwestern
Division of the same district, to prevent certain railroad
employees from continuing at work. The order ran
against men on strike, and the cause is treated as one within the purview of the Clayton Act (October 15, 1914, c.
323; 38 Stat. 730). Sections 21, 22, 24 and 25 of that act
are set out below.'
Counsel for plaintiffs in error maintain that ordinary
contempts punishable by courts of equity without trial by
jury differ radically from the "statutory contempt " here
disclosed, which, under the Clayton Act, must be dealt
with as a criminal offense. And they insist that § 51, 52
1 See. 21. That any person who shall willfully disobey any lawful
writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of any district court
of the United States or any court of the District of Columbia by doing
any act or thing therein, or thereby forbidden to be done by him,
if the act or thing so done by him be of such character as to constitute also a criminal offense under any statute of the United States,
or under the laws of any State in which the act was committed, shall
be proceeded against for his said contempt as hereinafter provided.
See. 22. That whenever it shall be made to appear to any district
court or judge thereof, or to any judge therein sitting, by the return
of a proper officer on lawful process, or upon the alidavit of some
credible person, or by information filed by any district attorney, that
there is reasonable ground to believe that any person has been guilty
of such contempt, the court or judge thereof, or any judge therein
sitting, may issue a rule requiring the said person so charged to show
cause upon a day certain why he should not be punished therefor,
which rule, together with a copy of the affidavit or information, shall
be served upon the person charged, with sufficient promptness to enable him to prepare for and make return to the order at the timo
fixed therein. If upon or by such return, in the judgment of the
court, the alleged contempt be not sufficiently purged, a trial shall be
directed at a time and place fixed by the court: Provided. however,
That if the accused, being a natural person, fail or refuse to make return to the rule to show cause, an attachment may issue against his
person to compel an answer, and in case of his continued failure or
refusal, or if for any reason it be impracticable to dispose of the
matter on the return day, he may be required to give reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

and 53, Judicial Code, control the venue when such "statutory contempt " is alleged.
Section 51 provides that, with certain exceptions, "no
person shall be arrested in one district for trial in another,
in any civil action before a district court." . . . Section
52. "When a State contains more than one district, every

suit not of a local nature, in the district court thereof,
against a single defendant, inhabitant of such State, must
be brought in the district where he resides; but if there are
two or more defendants, residing in different districts of
the State, it may be brought in either district, and a
duplicate writ may be issued against the defendants, directed to the marshal of any other district in which any
defendant resides." . . . Section 53. "When a district
bail for his attendance at the trial and his submission to the final
judgment of the court. Where the accused is a body corporate, an
attachment for the sequestration of its property may be issued upon
like refusal or failure to answer.
In all cases within the purview of this Act such trial may be by
the court, or, upon demand of the accused, by a jury; in which latter
event the court may impanel a jury from the jurors then in attendance, or the court or the judge thereof in chambers may cause a sufficient number of jurors to be selected and summoned, as provided
by law, to attend at the time and place of trial, at which time a jury
shall be selected and impaneled as upon a trial for misdemeanor; and
such trial shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice in criminal cases prosecuted by indictment or upon information.
If the accused be found guilty, judgment shall be entered accordingly, prescribing the punishment, either by fine or imprisonment, or
both, in the discretion of the court. Such fine shall be paid to the
United States or to the complainant or other party injured by the
act constituting the contempt, or may, where more than one is so
damaged, be divided or apportioned among them as the court may
direct, but in no case shall the fine to be paid to the United States
exceed, in case the accused is a natural person, the sum of $1,000, nor
shall such imprisonment exceed the term of six months: Provided,
That in any case the court or a judge thereof may, for good cause
shown, by affidavit or proof taken in open court or before such judge
and filed with the papers in the case, dispense with the rule to show

MYERS v. UNITED STATES.
95

Opinion of the Court

contains more than one division, every suit not of a local
nature against a single defendant must be brought in the
division where he resides; but if there are two or more
defendants residing in different divisions of the district
it may be brought in either division. . . . All prosecutions
for crimes or offenses shall be had within the division of
such districts where the same were committed, unless the
court, or the judge thereof, upon the application of the
defendant, shall order the cause to be transferred for prosecution to another division of the district."
None of the cited Code sections makes specific reference
to contempt proceedings. These are sui generis-neither
civil actions nor prosecutions for offenses, within the ordinary meaning of those terms-and exertions of the power
inherent in all courts to enforce obedience, something they
must possess in order properly to perform their functions.
Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S.324, 326.
cause, and may issue an attachment for the arrest of the person
charged with contempt; in which event such person, when arrested,
shall be brought before such court or a judge thereof without unnecessary delay and shall be admitted to bail in a reasonable penalty
for his appearance to answer to the charge or for trial for the contempt; and thereafter the proceedings shall be the same as provided
herein in case the rule had issued in the first instance.
See. 24. That nothing herein contained shall be construed to relate
to contempts committed in the presence of the court, or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, nor to contempts
committed in disobedience of any lawful writ, process, order, rule,
decree, or command entered in any suit or action brought or prosecuted in the name of, or on behalf of, the United States, but the
same, and all'other cases of contempt not specifically embraced
within section twenty-one of this Act, may be punished in conformity
to the usages at law and in equity now prevailing.
See. 25. That no proceeding for contempt shall be instituted against
any person unless begun within one year from the date of the act
complained of; nor shall any such proceeding be a bar to any criminal
prosecution for the same act or acts; but nothing herein contained
shall affect any proceedings in contempt pending at the time of the
passage of this Act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

To disobey a judicial order is not declared criminal by
the Clayton Act. It recognizes that such disobedience
may be contempt and, having prescribed limitations,
leaves the court to deal with the offender. While it gives
the right to trial by jury and restricts the punishment, it
also clearly recognizes the distinction between "proceeding for contempt" and "criminal prosecution." "No
proceeding for contempt shall be instituted against any
person unless begun within one year from the date of the
act complained of; nor shall any such proceeding be a bar
to any criminal prosecution for the same act or acts."

§ 25.
The Clayton Act says nothing about venue in contempt
proceedings; leaves it as theretofore. The power of the
court below to issue the enjoining order is not questioned.
By disobeying the order, plaintiffs in error defied an authority which that tribunal was required to vindicate. It
followed established practice, as modified by the statute;
and we think the objections to its jurisdiction are unsubstantial.
The following cases are in point: Eilenbecker v. District Court of Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31, 35, et seq.;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
447, 489; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 594, 596, 599; Bessette
v. W. B. Conkey Co., supra, pp. 326, 327; Gompers v.
Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 441, 450; Binkley v. United States, 282 Fed. 244; McGibbony v. Lancaster, 286 Fed. 129; Dunham v. United States, 289 Fed.
376; McCourtney v. United States 291 Fed. 497.
Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604, does not support the claim that the challenged contempt proceedings
amounted to prosecution for a criminal offense within the
intendment of § 53, Judicial Code. While contempt may
be an offense against the law and subject to appropriate
punishment, certain it is that since the foundation of our
government proceedings to punish such offenses have been

EX PARTE TRANSPORTES MARITIMOS.
95

105

Argument for Petitioner.

regarded as sui generis and not "criminal prosecutions"
within the Sixth Amendment or common understanding.
The judgment below must be affirmed.
EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF TRANSPORTES
MARITIMOS DO ESTADO, ETC., PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR MANDAMUS.

No. 26, Original.

Argued January 7, 8, 1924.-Decided February 18,
1924.

1. Upon the libel of a ship, for services and supplies, the District
Court acquires jurisdiction of the res, with power to pass upon the
form and substance of a claim of immunity presented by a foreign
minister alleging that the ship is owned and operated by a
department of his government. P. 108.
2. The overruling of such a claim, by the District Court and Circuit
Court of Appeals, is not reviewable here by prohibition and mandamus, where there was full opportunity to review in the customary
way. Id.
Rule discharged and petition dismissed.

PETITIONS for prohibition and mandamus, presented to
this Court by the Minister of the Republic of Portugal.

Mr. F. Dudley Kohler for petitioner.
The power to issue writs of prohibition is given to this
Court, and this remedy is assured to the petitioner by
Jud. Code, § 234. It is well settled that this remedy is
not in the nature of an appeal or to take the place of an
appeal. Its purpose as issuing to a District Court, sitting
as a court of admiralty, as in this case, is to prevent an
unlawful assumption or exercise of jurisdiction and lies
when the court is acting in excess of its jurisdiction or is
taking cognizance of matters not arising within its jurisdiction. Its office is to prevent an unlawful assumption
of jurisdiction; Ex parte Phenix Ins. Co., 118 U. S. 610:

