OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

Court of Appeals; it is that of the Land & Improvement
Company; it is, in essential foundation, that of the Government. These circumstances cannot, of course, obstruct
the declaration of superior authority, as this Court is,
although the grounds of the exertion of the authority may
surprise.
THE CHICAGO JITNCTION CASE.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 489.

Argued January 24, 1924.--Decided March 3, 1924.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission permitting one
carrier to acquire control of another, made under par. 2 of § 5 of
the amended Act to Regulate Commerce, which allows this whenever the Commission is of opinion, after hearing, that the acquisition will be in the public interest, is subject to judicial review.
P. 263.
2. Such an order is void if the finding that the acquisition will be in
the public interest is made ithout supporting evidence. P. 265.
3. Facts conceivably known to the Commission but not put in
evidence will not support an order. P. 263.
4. In a bill to set aside such an order, an allegation that such finding
was wholly unsupported by evidence charges a fact which must
be taken as admitted on appeal from a decree dismissing the bill on
motion equivalent to a demurrer. P. 262.
5. Carriers which suffer serious disadvantage, prejudice and loss of
traffic from the transfer of neutral terminal railroads to the control
of a competitor, and which intervened unsuccessfully before the
Commission in opposition to such transfer, have a standing to
attack the order permitting it, upon the ground that there was no
evidence to support the finding of public interest on which the order
was based. P. 266.
6. Section 212, Jud. Code, which declares that any party to a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission may, as of
' The docket title of this case is: Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company et al. v. United States, Interstate Commerce Commission, New
York Central Railroad Company, et al.

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
258

Opinion of the Court.

right, become a party to any suit wherein is involved the validity
of its order, impliedly authorizes one who was permitted to oppose
an order before the Commission by intervention, to institute a suit
to challenge it. P. 267.
7. Under the Act of October 22, 1913, a suit may be brought to set
aside an order of the Commission and also to restore the stat.x
quo ante, by joining with the United States private parties who
appeared before the Commission and have acquired rights under the
order. P. 269.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying an
interlocutory injunction and dismissing the bill, on motion.
in a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. Luther 31. Walter, with whom Mr. .John,S. Burchmore was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Blackburn Esterlive, Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty and
Mr. Solicitor General Beck were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. P. T. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Ralph 31. Shaw, with whom Mr. Silas H. Strauli,
Mr. Guy Currier and Mr. Frederick C. Hack were on the
brief, for Chicago Junction Railway Company et al..
appellees.
31r. Robert J. Cary filed a brief on behalf of New York
Central Railroad Company and Chicago River & Indiana
Railroad Company, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Chicago Junction Railway and the Chicago River
and Indiana Railroad are terminal railroads located

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

within the Chicago switching district. Prior to May 16,
1922, they were operated as independent belt-lines, uncontrolled by any trunk line carrier; and they were used
by the twenty-three railroads entering Chicago, impartially and without discrimination. Among these were the
New York Central Lines and their chief competitors, the
six carriers who are plaintiffs in this suit.1 The New York
Central sought to obtain control of these terminal railroads. To this end, it made an application to the Interstate Commerce Commission, on December 28, 1920,
under paragraph 18 of § 1 and paragraph 2 of § 5 of the
Act to Regulate Commerce as amended by Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 477, 481.2 The authorization requested was to make an agreement with stockholders then owning these properties by which, among
other things, the New York Central would purchase all
the capital stock of the Chicago River and Indiana Railroad for $750,000; and the latter company would lease
for 99 years (and thereafter) the Chicago Junction Railway at an annual rental of $2,000,000. Upon this application hearings were had. The Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad. and its co-plaintiffs herein, intervened, and
opposed granting the application. On May 16, 1922, an
order was entered which authorized the New York Central
to acquire the Chicago River and Indiana Railroad stock;
'The Baltimore & Ohio, the Pennsylvania, the Chicago & Erie, the
Grand Trunk Western, the Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville, and
the Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis. The Wabash, originally joined as plaintiff, was dismissed on its own motion.
'Neither of the operating companies affected joined in the application of the New York Central; and no separate application to the
Commission was filed by either of them. But they were represented
before the Commission; and the petition of the New York Central
prayed that the several corporations involved be authorized to sell
and to buy such stock, and to execute such lease; and that the
Commission "issue in respect thereof its certificate of public convenience and necessity."

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
258

Opinion of the Court.

and authorized the latter company to lease the Chicago
Junction Railway." Chicago Junction Case, 71 I. C. C'.
631. The order did not fLx the date when it should become effective.' Immediately after its entry, the purchase of the stock was completed and the lease was
executed.
On April 10, 1923, this suit was brought in the federal
court for the Northern District of Illinois against the
United States, the Commision, the New York Central.
the terminal railroads and the stockholders thereof.' The
relief sought is to have the order declared void; to have
^The report entitled "By the Commission," state; that the authority is granted subject only to the observance of seventeen conditions which it enumerates. Applications under paragraph IS of § I
and paragraph 2 of § 5 are customarily heard by Division 4 consistin
of four commissioners. See Interstate Commerce Act, § 17; Annual
Report of the Commission for 1920, pp. 3-6. But this case was heard
by the full Commission. The Commission consists of eleven menibers. Only four concurred entirely in what is called the Report of
the Commission. Four others dissented 'a holly. One " concurred in
part" declaring that the facts warrant grant of authority without
elaboration of conditions" which (with two exceptions) seemed to
him "vain, perhaps harmful." The two other memberA concurred
"in the result reached in the report," but declared that the opinion
"should recognize explicitly that the application ,hould have been
entertained under section 1, paragraph 18, of the act; and that in
accordance therewith a certificate of public convenience and necessity
should be incorporated in the order entered."
'On May 29, 1922, the intervening carriers filed a petition praying
that the order be set aside or modified. The petition was denied
June 12, 1922.
The agreement of the New York Central was with the Chicago
Junction Railways and Union Stock Yards Company, a holding company, which owned all the stock in the Chicago River and Indiana
Railroad and half of the stock in the Chicago Junction Railway; the
other half being owned by Richard Fitzgerald, who wished to join
in making the sale transferring control. The property to be leased
included the railroad of the Union Stock Yards and Transit Company
of Chicago, which had theretofore been leased to the Chicago Junction
Railway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

set aside the sale of the stock and the lease; to restore the
status quo ante the order; and for an injunction. The
case was heard before three judges on plaintiffs' motion
for an interlocutory injunction and on defendants' motions to dismiss the bill.' The District Court, without
opinion, denied the injunction and dismissed the bill.
The case is here on direct appeal under the Act of October
22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
The order did not provide for the issue of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity. It did not disclose
whether it was issued under paragraph 18 of § 1 or under
paragraph 2 of § 5. An application, by the carriers who
are plaintiffs herein, that this be specified was denied by
the Commission without opinion. In this Court counsel
for all the defendants stated that the order was entered
solely under paragraph 2 of § 5. We have, therefore, no
occasion to consider the incidents of applications under
paragraph 18 of § 1, or rights thereunder. Several reasons are urged why the order should be held void. The defendants, besides asserting its validity, insist that the
plaintiffs have no interest which entitles them to assail the
order; and that there are, also, other obstacles to the main-tenance of this suit.
First. Plaintiffs contend that the order is void because
there was no evidence to support the finding that the
acquisition of control of the terminal railroads by the New
York Central "will be in the public interest." The bill
charges, in clear and definite terms, that this finding was
wholly unsupported by evidence. We must take that fact
as admitted for the purposes of this appeal. The allega'When the cause was heard on the original bill the hearing was
upon motions to dismiss filed by the United States, the New York
Central, the Chicago River and Indiana Railroad, the Chicago Junction Railways and Union Stock Yards Company, the Chicago Junction Railway and Richard Fitzgerald; and upon the answer of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The bill was then amended.
Thereupon, the case was heard solely on the motions to dismiss.

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
258

Opinion of the Court.

tion is made as one of fact. There is no suggestion in the
motions to dismiss (which are both general and special)
that this fact is not well pleaded; or that a copy of the
evidence introduced at the hearing should have been annexed to the bill. Compare Louisiana & Pine Bbff Ry.
Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 114. Facts conceivably
known to the Commission but not put in evidence will not
support an order. Interstate Comnmerce Cornwission v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 93. The
defendants concede that the New York Central could not
legally acquire control of these terminal railroads unless
authorized so to do by the Commission pursuant to paragraph 2 of § 5; and that the Commission cannot legally
grant such authority unless it finds, after hearing, that the
acquisition "will be in the public interest." They contend that this order is not one of those subject to judicial
review; and that, if subject to review, it cannot be held
void merely because unsupported by evidence. These objections are based on the nature of the order, not on the
class of persons by whom the judicial review is invoked.
Whether this order can be described properly as legislqtive, may be doubted. It is clear that legislative character alone would not preclude judicial review. Rate orders
are clearly legislative. Prentisv. Atlan tic Coast Line Co.,
211 U. S. 210, 226. Nor would the further fact that the
order is permissive preclude review, if by that term is
meant an order which, in contradistinction to one compelling performance, authorizes a carrier to do some act otherwise prohibited. Orders entered under the Act of June
18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547, amending § 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act, are of this character. That section prohibits carriers from charging more "for a shorter
than for a longer distance over the same line or route in
the same direction " without obtaining authority from the
Commission. A suit will lie to set aside an order granting
such authority, and to enjoin action by the carrier there-

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

under. Skinner & Eddy Corporation v. United States,
249 U. S. 557, 562. Compare United States v. Merchants
& ManufacturersTraffic Association, 242 U. S. 178. The
order here challenged is wholly unlike those which have
been held not subject to judicial review. In UnitedStates
v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 82, 89, the action
of the Commission, with which the Court refused to interfere, was the assignment of a complaint for hearing. As
this Court said: "The notice . . . had no characteristic of
an order, affirmative or negative." In Procter& Gamble
Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282; Hooker v. Knapp, 225
U. S. 302; and Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. United States,
243 U. S. 412, judicial review was refused, not because the
order was permissive, or because it was negative in character, but because it was a denial of the affirmative relief
sought.7 This Court declined to interfere, because to do
so would have involved exercise by it of the administrative
function of granting the relief which the Commission, in
the exercise of its jurisdiction, had denied. Here the order
complained of is an affirmative one. That is, it grants the
relief sought. Compare ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United
States, 246 U. S. 457, 483.
It is further contended that paragraph 2 of § 5 confers a
power purely discretionary, and that, for this reason, the
order entered cannot be set aside by a court merely on
the ground that the action taken was based on facts
erroneously assumed, or of which there was no evidence.8
The power here challenged is not of that character. Con'Compare Interstate Commerce Commission v. Waste Merchants
Assn., 260 U. S. 32. The mandamus was granted in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Humboldt S. S. Co., 224 U. S. 474, and Louis-

ville Cement Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 246 U. S. 638,
because the Commission erroneously refused to assume jurisdiction.
See also Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comimission, 252 U. S. 178.
'Compare Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 29-33; Philadelphia &
Trenton R. R. Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448, 458.

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
258

265

Opinion of the Court.

gress by using the phrase "whenever the Commission is
of opinion, after hearing," prescribed quasi-judicial action.,
Upon application of a carrier, the Commission must form
a judgment whether the acquisition proposed will be in
the public interest. It may form this judgment only after
hearing."0 The provision for a hearing implies both the
privilege of introducing evidence and the duty of deciding
in accordance with it. To refuse to consider evidence
introduced or to make an essential finding without supporting evidence is arbitrary action. As it was admitted
by the motion that the order was unsupported by evidence, and since such an order is void, there is no occasion
The same phrase is used in the Interstate Commerce Act in respect to many other classes of orders. These orders, so far as considered by this Court, have uniformly been held to be subject to
judicial review; and where an essential finding was unsupported by
evidence, the order was declared to be void. (1) Unreasonable rates,
§ 15, par. 1; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91; Florida East Coast Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 167, 185. (2) Discriminatory rates, § 15,
par. 1; compare New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 600.
(3) Switching connections, § 1, par. 9; United States v. Baltimore &
Ohio Southwestern R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 14. (4) Division of joint
rates, § 15, par. 6; compare New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S.
184, 203. (5) Pooling, § 5, par. 1. (6) Railroad control of water
carriers, § 5, par. 10. (7) Valuation, § 19a, par. Fifth i.
" Transportation Act, 1920, like the original Act to Regulate Commerce and earlier amendments, distinguished, by the language used
and, also, in other respects, between those orders which can be made
only after hearing and those as to which no hearing is required. Thus,
orders on applications for extension of line, for new construction, or
for abandonment under § 1, pars. 18-20, can be made only after
hearing. But in the case of applications concerning the issue of
securities under § 20a, par. 6, the Commission may hold hearings " if
it sees fit." See Miller v. United States, 277 Fed. 95. And under the
emergency provisions, § 1, pars. 15 and 16, and § 15, par. 4, the order
may be issued without a hearing, but "terms" are fixed after "subsequent hearings." Peoria & Pekin Union Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 528.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

to consider the other grounds of invalidity asserted by
plaintiffs.
Second. The defendants contend that the plaintiffs
have not the legal interest necessary to entitle them to
challenge the order. That they have in fact a vital interest is admitted. They are the competitors of the New
York Central. Practically all the tonnage originated at or
destined to points on these terminal railroads is competitive, in that the same can be hauled either over the
lines of the New York Central or over those of the plaintiffs. Prior to the date of the order, and while the terminal
railroads were uncontrolled by any trunk line carrier, they
were all served impartially and without discrimination;
and they competed for the traffic on equal terms. The
order substitutes for neutral control of the terminal railroads, monopoly of control in the New York Central; and,
in so doing, necessarily gives to it substantial advantage
over all its competitors and subjects the latter to serious
disadvantage and prejudice. The main purpose of the
acquisition by the New York Central was to secure a larger
share of the Chicago business. By means of the preferential position incident to the control of these terminal
railroads, it planned to obtain traffic theretofore enjoyed
by its competitors. Because such was the purpose of the
New York Central control, and would necessarily be its
effect, these plaintiffs intervened before the Commission.
That their apprehensions were well founded is shown by
the results. The plaintiffs are no longer permitted to compete with the New York Central on equal terms. A large
volume of traffic has been diverted from their lines to
those of the New York Central. The diversion of traffic
has already subjected the plaintiffs to irreparable injury.
The loss sustained exceeds $10,000,000. Continued control by the New York Central will subject them to an
annual loss in net earnings of approximately that amount.
If, as suggested in Interstate Commerce Commission v.

CHICAGO J1TNCTION CASE.
258

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88, 109.
a legal interest exists where carriers' revenues may be
affected, there is clearly such an interest here.
This loss is not the incident of more effective competition. Compare Edward Hines Trustees v. United States.,
263 U. S. 143, 148. It is injury inflicted by denying to
the plaintiffs equality of treatment. To such treatment
carriers are, under the Interstate Commerce Act, as fully
entitled as any shipper. Pennsylvania Co. v. United
States, 236 U. S. 351. It is true that, before Transportation Act, 1920, the Interstate Commerce Act would not
have prohibited the owners of the terminal railroads from
selling them to the New York Central. Nor would it have
prohibited the latter company from making the purchase.
And, by reason of a provision then contained in § 3 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, the purchase might have enabled the New York Central to exclude all other carriers
from use of the terminals. Compare Louisville & Nashvylle R. R. Co. v. United States, 242 U. S. 60; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 482. But
Transportation Act, 1920 repealed that provision in § 3;
it made provision for securing joint use of terminals; and
it prohibited any acquisition of a railroad by a carrier,
unless authorized by the Commission. By reason of this
legislation, the plaintiffs, being competitors of the New
York Central and users of the terminal railroads theretofore neutral, have a special interest in the proposal to
transfer the control to that company.
The plaintiffs may challenge the order because they are
parties to it. The Judicial Code, § 212 (originally the
Commerce Court Act, June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 542,)
declares that any party to a proceeding before the Commission may, as of right, become a party to "any suit
wherein is involved the validity of such order." The section does not in terms provide that such party may insti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tute a suit to challenge the order. But this is implied.
For, otherwise, there would in some cases be no redress for
the injury inflicted by an illegal order. Moreover, the fact
of intervention, allowed as it was, implies a finding by the
Commission that the plaintiffs have an interest. In the
proceeding before the Commission, they opposed by
evidence and argument the granting of the application.
This they did as of right. For under the rules of practice,
adopted by the Commission pursuant to paragraph 1 of
§ 17 of the Interstate Commerce Act, the intervener becomes a party to the proceeding, entitled, like any other
party, to appear at the taking of testimony, to produce
and cross-examine witnesses, and to be heard in person or
by counsel.11 The intervention must be preceded by an
order of the Commission granting leave; and leave can be
granted only to one showing interest. No case has been
found in which either this Court, or any lower court, has
denied to one who was a party to the proceedings before
the Commission the right to challenge the order entered
therein. On the other hand, persons who were entitled to
become parties before the Commission but did not do so,
have been allowed to maintain such suits where the requisite interest was shown. Interstate Commerce Com" Rules of Practice (1923) pp. 2, 27, 28.

The Commission, like

courts, distinguishes between those who are permitted to intervene,
and thus become parties, and persons who are merely permitted to be
heard. See Hurlburt v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 2
I. C. C. 122, 125. Compare Ex parte Leaf Tobacco Board of Trade,

222 U. S. 578.
Leave to intervene can be granted only to one entitled under the
act to complain to the Commission. The right to complain was
broadly bestowed by Congress. Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104,
§ 13, 24 Stat. 379, 383, as amended June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 11,
36 Stat. 539, 550, 557. From its inception, the Commission has construed liberally this right to complain. See Boston & Albany R. R.
Co. v. Boston & Lowell R. R. Co., 1 I. C. C. 158, 173, 174; In re
Chicago, St. Paul & Kansas City Ry. Co., 2 1. C. C. 231, 235.

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
258

Opinion of the Court.

mission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 49; Skinner & Eddy
Corporationv. United States, 249 U. S. 557, 562.2
Third. It is contended that this bill was properly dismissed for want of jurisdiction, at least as to the terminal
companies and their stockholders other than the New
York Central, because the plaintiffs have joined with the
suit to set aside the order, a suit to restore the status quo.

The objection is not that the bill is multifarious, or that
it is otherwise in conflict with established equity practice.
The argument is that the United States is a necessary
party; that, against it, suit can be brought only when Congress gives consent; that the suit was brought necessarily
and solely under the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38
Stat. 219, 220; and that the consent so given does not extend to a suit in which it is sought to set aside both the
order and rights acquired by private persons thereunder.
There is nothing in the legislation to indicate that Congress intended such a limitation of the scope of the relief
'The order involved in the latter case-relief from the operation
of the Fourth Section-resembles in character that here in question.
See also Nashville Grain Exchange v. United States, 191 Fed. 37;
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 194
Fed. 449; Merchants' & Manufacturers' Traffic Association v. Unted
States, 231 Fed. 292; McLean Lumber Co. v. United States, 237 Fed.
460; City of New York v. United States, 272 Fed. 768, 769; Village of
Hubbard v. United States, 278 Fed. 754, 759; Tennessee v. United
States, 284 Fed. 371, s. a., Nashville, etc. Ry. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S.
318; Detroit & M. Ry. Co. v. Boyne City, G. & A. R. Co., 286
Fed. 540, 548.
In Edward Hines Trustees v. United States, 263 U. S. 143, 147, 148,
the bill was dismissed because it failed to disclose any interest in the
plaintiff. Cases like Railroad Co. v. Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166, which
are not brought under the Interstate Commerce Act, have no bearing
on the question here presented. The contention that under the principle applied in Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346, Congress
was without power to confer upon persons situated like the plaintiffs
the right to challenge in the courts the validity of the order is
unsound.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

to be afforded. The sale of the stock and the lease, which
it is sought to set aside, were made immediately after
entry of the order; that is, before expiration of the thirty
days provided by paragraph 2 of § 15; and before the
plaintiffs' petition to set aside or modify the order had
been disposed of. To permit the joinder objected to could
not prejudice the United States. To prohibit the joinder
would, in large measure, defeat the very purpose of the
bill and would clearly prevent that expedition in affording
relief which it was the purpose of Congress to ensure. Act
of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823. Moreover, the
terminal companies, and the stockholders affected, were
entitled to intervene as parties in the proceedings before
the Commission; and they appeared by counsel. If they
became parties to the proceeding before the Commission,
they were entitled, under § 212 of the Judicial Code, to
become parties, also, to any suit brought to set aside the
order. It was the policy of Congress to allow persons so
situated to be joined in suits to enforce provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act. See Act of February 19, 1903,
c. 708, § 2, 32 Stat. 847, 848. If this suit had been brought
by the United States, the court could have given the complete relief prayed for. United States v. Union Pacific
Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 1, 50; United States v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 96. The same rule should apply
where the suit to set aside the order is brought by a private
3
party.
The contention that the suit is barred by laches is
clearly unfounded. The situation of none of the defendants appears to have been affected by the brief lapse of
time. Compare United States v. Southern Pacific Co.,
259 U. S. 214, 240; Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250
U. S. 483, 488.
Reversed.
"There is nothing to the contrary in Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493; Oregon v. Hitchcock. 202 U. S. 60; or Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373.

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
258

SUTHERLAND,

McRE rOLDS and SANFORD, JJ., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, dissenting.
I think the injuries alleged to have been sustained by
complainants are not such as to afford the basis for a legal
remedy. Complainants are interested only in the sense
that the acquisition of the rights here in question by their
competitor will enable the latter to absorb a larger share
of the business. That is not enough to constitute a
remediable interest.
Before Transportation Act, 1920, the New York Central
would have been free to acquire these terminals without
the consent of the Commission. If it had done so, its
gain of business with the resulting loss to complainants
would have been the same; but it would be inadmissible
to assert that complainants might have maintained a suit
to annul or enjoin the acquisition on the ground of that
injury. "The effort of a carrier to obtain more business . . . proceeds from the motive of self-interest which
is recognized as legitimate." United States v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 515, 523. See Johnson v.
Hitchcock, 15 Johns. (N. Y.) 185.
It is claimed, however, that Transportation Act, 1920,
so alters the rule as to give a right of action to complainants where none existed before. I am unable to perceive
any sound basis for the conclusion. That act. so far as
this question is concerned, requires the carrier, as a prerequisite to an acquisition of the character here under
consideration, to secure the authorization of the Commission, which that body may grant if "it will be in the
public interest." The mere effect of such acquisition
upon the business of competing lines is no more to be
considered since the Act of 1920 than it was prior to the
passage thereof. It is the public, not private, interest
which is to be considered.
The complainants have no standing to vindicate the
rights of the public, but only to protect and enforce their

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

SUTHERLAND, McRYNOLDS

and

SANFORD,

JJ., dissenting.

264 U. S.

own rights. Redress for public grievances must be sought
by public agents, not by private intervention. Home
Telephone Co. v. Railroad Commission, 174 Mich. 219.
The right of the complainants to sue, therefore, cannot
rest upon the alleged violation of a public interest, but
must rest upon some distinct grievance of their own.
Loss of business, or of opportunities to get business, attributable to the activity or increase of facilities on the
part of a competitor is not enough. Transportation Act,
1920, lays down no new or additional rule by which the
question, What constitutes a legal or equitable right,
interference with which may give rise to an action? may
be tested; and the determination of that question must
still rest upon general principles of jurisprudence. See
Peavey & Co. v. :Unior Pacific R. Co., 176 Fed. 409, 417.
In Railroad Co. v. Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166, 174, this Court
held that a private complainant may not be heard by a
court except for an "invasion of some legal or equitable
right. If he asserts that the competition of the railroad
company damages him, the answer is, that it does not
abridge or impair any such right. If he alleges that the
railroad company is acting beyond the warrant of the law,
the answer is, that a violation of its charter does not of
itself injuriously affect any of his rights. The company
is not shown to owe him any duty which it has not performed."
If it were conceded that the acquisition of the terminals
by the New York Central was in the public interest, I
suppose it would not be contended that complainants had
any standing to interfere on the ground that their opportunities for obtaining business had been impaired. And,
since they are without legal right to intervene to redress
a public grievance, the contrary fact that the acquisition
will not be in the public interest cannot avail them.
Their complaint must stand or fall upon the nature of
their own grievance. A private injury for which the law

CHICAGO JUNCTION CASE.
253

SUTHERLAND, M REYNOLDS

and

SANFORD,

273

JJ., dissenting.

affords no remedy, cannot be converted into a remediable
injury merely because it results from an act of which the
public might complain. In other words, the law will
afford redress to a litigant only for injuries which invade
his own legal rights; and since the injuries here complained of are not of that character and do not result from
the violation of any obligation owing to the complainants,
it follows that they are without legal standing to sue.
The decision of the Court here proceeds upon the
theory that the injury complained of is a denial of equality
of treatment in the use of the terminals; but I do not understand this to be the gravamen of the bill. The complaint is of inequality of opportunity to get business-not
of opportunity to use the terminals. Complainants' access to the use and enjoyment of the terminal facilities
acquired by the New York Central, remains the same in
respect of any business they may obtain. Interstate Commerce Act, § 3-(3), (4), as amended by Transportation
Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 479. The Commission granted
the authorization only upon condition that the neutrality
of the terminals in their handling of traffic should be preserved. 1 If their use be lessened, therefore, it will not be
because access to the terminals has been, or is in danger
of being, restricted, but because, with less business, there
will be less occasion to use them. An illustration may be
helpful: Suppose, instead of these terminal facilities, the
acquisition had been of a line of railroad running west
from Chicago, which, prior thereto, had been neutral and
1 Among

other conditions is the following:
"2. The present neutrality of handling traffic inbound and outbound
by the Junction and River Road organization shall be continued so as
to permit equal opportunity for service to and from all trunk lines
reaching Junction rails, without discrimination as to routing or movement of traffic which is competitive with the traffic of the Central,

and without discrimination against such competitive traffic in the
arrangement of schedules."
tV7S51

'-24-1S

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

whose business had been distributed without favor among
the several eastern lines terminating at that city. It is
manifest that the effect of such an acquisition would be,
as it is here, to enable the New York Central to absorb
more of the traffic of the railroad so acquired than theretofore and, consequently, to lessen that received by other
parallel lines running east from Chicago. In that situation, could any of such lines maintain a suit to annul the
authorization of the Commission? It seems to me not;
and I can see no difference in principle between the case
supposed and that with which we are dealing.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS
and MR. JUSTICE SANFORD concur in this dissent.

SMITH v. APPLE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 124. Argued January 2, 1924.--Decided March 3, 1924.
1. Where a District Court dismisses a suit upon the specific ground
of want of jurisdiction, this Court, upon a sufficient certificate,
acquires jurisdiction of a direct appeal, and whatever the reason
assigned by the District Court for the supposed want of jurisdiction, must determine whether that court had and should have exercised the jurisdiction thus denied. P. 277.
2. But where a decree of the District Court does not purport to be
based upon a question of its jurisdiction, a subsequent certificate
characterizing the ground of decision as one involving a question of
jurisdiction, does not authorize this Court to entertain the appeal
unless the question certified presents an issue as to "the jurisdiction of the court" within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 238. Id.
3. The question whether, in a suit in equity, the plaintiff is prevented
by Jud. Code, § 265, from obtaining an injunction staying proceedings in a state court, does not present an issue as to the jurisdiction
of the District Court, within the meaning of § 238, but one of the
equity or merits of the case. Id.

