OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF COLUMBUS, OHIO, v.
LOUISIANA HIGHWAY COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 50.

Motion to affirm submitted November 26, 1923.-Decided
March 17, 1924.

An allegation of a bill in the District Court that the amount involved
exceeds $3,000.00, exclusive of interest and costs, is not enough to
show jurisdiction in that regard, when the other allegations do not
tend to support, but contradict, the claim. P. 310.
Affirmed.

ON motion to affirm a decree of the District Court,
dismissing a bill for want of jurisdiction.

Mr. W. M. Barrow, for appellees, in support of the
motion to affirm. Mr. George Seth Guion, Assistant
Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, was also on
the brief.
No brief filed for appellant.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Jurisdiction was invoked solely on the ground of diversity of citizenship. The District Court held that the
required amount, $3,000, was not involved, and for that
reason dismissed the case. Appeal was taken under ยง 238
of the Judicial Code. The appellees move to affirm under
ยง 5 of Rule 6.
The complaint alleges that the appellant is the holder
of real estate and a taxpayer in the Parish of Jefferson,
Louisiana; that in 1919 state highway bonds were sold to
provide funds for the construction of certain highways,
one of which was to extend from Hammond to New
Orleans approximately paralleling the Illinois Central
Railroad through the Parishes of Tangipahoa, St. John

FIRST NATL. BANK v. LOUISIANA COMM.
308

309

Opinion of the Court.

the Baptist, St. Charles, and Jefferson to the line of
Orleans Parish; that, in violation of law, contracts were
let for partial construction of a portion of this highway
on a route different from that fixed by law, and that
some of the proceeds of the bond issue have been set
aside for that purpose; that it is the intention of the
Highway Conmnission forever to abandon construction
of a part of the prescribed highway, and it is averred that
such abandonment and the diversion and exhaustion of
the highway fund will cause irreparable injury to the
appellant, impair the contractual obligation with the
bondholders, violate appellant's rights as a property
holder and taxpayer, and that the amount involved
exceeds the sum of $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs.
The prayer is that appellees be enjoined from paying the
contractor and from paying out the money on any
contract not let according to law.
Appellant applied for a temporary injunction. In support of its application, it fied an affidavit of its attorney,
stating that the location of the Hammond-New Orleans
highway according to law would enhance the property of
appellant more than $5,000, and that the exhaustion of
the fund would damage appellant in a sum exceeding
$5,000. It also filed an affidavit of a resident of the
Parish of Jefferson, stating that appellant is the owner
of 1400 acres of land situated in the Fourth Drainage
District of that parish, and that the drainage tax for
the district is $3.50 an acre per year in addition to other
taxes.
It is not alleged that the appellant or its property has
been or will be subjected to any tax to pay the bonds or
to pay any part of the cost of the highway, or that it is
the holder of any of the bonds, or that the construction
of the highway on the route designated in the contracts
will damage its property. The attorney's affidavit does
not strengthen the naked conclusion alleged in the corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

plaint. The statements in the other affidavit have no
relevancy to the question of jurisdiction.
It must appear on the face of the complaint or otherwise from the proofs that the matter in controversy
exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of $3,000. Pinel v. Pinel, 240 U. S. 594, 597. The value
of the object to be gained is the test of the amount
involved. Western & Atlantic Railroad v. Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 264, 267; Glenwood Light Co. v.
Mutual Light Co., 239 U. S. 121, 125; Berryman v. Whitman College, 222 U. S. 334, 345; Bitterman v. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205, 225; Hunt v. New
York Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 336. The mere
assertion that more than the required amount is involved
is not enough where, as in this case, the facts alleged do
not even tend to support the claim. There is nothing to
indicate that the matter sought to be enjoined would be
of any pecuniary detriment to the appellant or would in
any way detract from the value of its property. Indeed,
it affirmatively appears that the requisite amount or value
is not involved. See Lion Bonding Co. v. Karatz, 262
U. S. 77, 86. No argument is required to show that the
facts set forth in the complaint and affidavits fail to
support jurisdiction. Appellees' motion to affirm must
be granted.
Judgment affirmed.
CITIZENS SAVINGS BANK & TRUST COMPANY v.
SEXTON, EXECUTOR OF CHAPMAN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 261.

Argued February 25, 1924.-Decided March 17, 1924.

1. Where the parties to a note and mortgage are citizens of the same
State, jurisdiction to collect the note by foreclosure of the mortgage

