ADDY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
219

Counsel for Parties.

The Steamboat Orleans v. Phoebus, 11 Pet. 175; and a
doctrine declared by Mr. Justice Story with the concurrence of Chief Justice Marshall, and approved by Chancellor Kent, was abandoned when found to be erroneous,
although it had been acted on for twenty-six years.
MATTHEW ADDY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
FORD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 84 and 85. Argued October 17, 18, 1923.-Decided Februry
25, 1924.

1. In a prosecution for violation of an order of the President fixing
prices of coal, under the Lever Act (August 10, 1917, c. 53, ยง 25,
40 Stat. 276), the order must be construed, as criminal statutes
are, strictly, and without retroactive effect unless clearly indicated.
P. 244.
2. A construction which raises a grave constitutional question should
be avoided. P. 245.
3. Qztaere: Whether Congress, when enacting the Lever Act, couldl
constitutionally have fixed prices at which persons then owning
coal might sell it, without providing compensation for lo-.ce? Id
4. The President's Order of August 23, 1917, limiting jobbers to a
gross margin of 150 per ton in reselling bituminous coal, did not
apply to sales f. o. b. the mines, contracted and made by jobbers
after the date of the order, of coal purchased by them f. o. b. the
mines before the dates of the order and the Lever Act. P. 245.
281 Fed. 298, reversed.
CERTIOAI to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming fines imposed on the petitioners, in criminal prosecutions based on the Lever Act.

Mr. Julius R. Samuels, with whom Mr. Nelson B.
Cramerwas on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Geo. Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The Executive Order of August 23, 1917, applied to
sales for which the defendants were indicted.
Evidence offered to prove that the gross margin fixed
by the Executive Order would not allow the defendants
any profit was properly excluded.
The indictments were sufficient. The President had
power to fix prices without the aid or co~peration of the
Federal Trade Commission. The allegations of the indictments are definite and certain.
The Executive Order was not a taking of property
without due process of law in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. It was valid, regardless of whether the
defendants could conduct their business profitably thereunder. Congress, in the exercise of the war power, may
control and regulate or may prohibit and destroy the
business of trading in coal.
If it be necessary that the jobber's margin be a profitable one, nevertheless the ascertainment of that fact by
judicial process is not essential to due process of law.
The Lever Act and the Executive Order did not take
the defendants' property.
The Lever Act did not delegate legislative or judicial
power in violation of the Constitution.
The Lever Act was not an abuse of the congressional
power to provide for the national security and defense,
nor was it an invasion of the reserved powers of the State.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioners were found guilty of violating the Presi(lent's order of August 23, 1917, by receiving margins
above those prescribed for coal jobbers. Both causes present the same fundamental questions and one opinion will
suffice.
The Lever Act, "An Act To provide further for the national security and defense by encouraging the production,

ADDY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

239

conserving the supply, and controlling the distribution of
food products and fuel," approved August 10, 1917, c. 53,
40 Stat. 276, 284, 286, provides"See. 25. That the President of the United States shall
be, and he is hereby, authorized and empowered. whenever
and wherever in his judgment necessary for the efficient
prosecution of the war, to fix the price of coal and coke,
wherever and whenever sold, either by producer or dealer,
to establish rules for the regulation of and to regulate the
method of production, sale, shipment, distribution, apportionment, or storage thereof among dealers and consumers, domestic or foreign; said authority and power
may be exercised by him in each case through the agency
of the Federal Trade Commission during the war or for
such part of said time as in his judgment may be necessary.
"Whoever shall, with knowledge that the prices of any
such commodity have been fixed as herein provided, ask,
demand, or receive a higher price, or whoever shall, with
knowledge that the regulations have been prescribed as
herein provided, violate or refuse to conform to any of the
same, shall, upon conviction, be punished by fine of not
more than $5,000, or by imprisonment for not more than
two years, or both. Each independent transaction shall
constitute a separate offense."
"See. 26. That any person carrying on or employed in
commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, or with or in the Territories or other possessions of
the United States in any article suitable for human food,
fuel, or other necessaries of life, who, either in his individual
capacity or as an officer, agent, or employee of a corporation or member of a partnership carrying on or employed
in such trade, shall store, acquire, or hold, or who shall
destroy or make away with any such article for the purpose of limiting the supply thereof to the public or affecting the market price thereof in such commerce, whether
151 -21 ------ 16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

temporarily or otherwise, shall be deemed guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $5,000 or by imprisonment for not
more than two years, or both."
On August 21, 1917, after prescribing a schedule of
prices for bituminous coal at the mine, the President said:
" It is provisional only. It is subject to reconsideration
when the whole method of administering the fuel supplies
of the country shall have been satisfactorily organized and
put into operation. Subsequent measures will have as
their object a fair and equitable control of the distribution
of the supply and of the prices not only at the mines but
also in the hands of the middlemen and the retailers."
August 23, 1917, pending further investigation and determination, it was ordered by the President-" a coal
jobber is defined as a person (or other agency) who purchases and resells coal to coal dealers or to consumers
without physically handling it on, over, or through his own
vehicle, dock, trestle, or yard. For the buying and selling
of bituminous coal a jobber shall not add to his purchase
price a gross margin in excess of 15 cents per ton of 2000
pounds, nor shall the combined gross margins of any number of jobbers who buy and sell a given shipment or shipinents of bituminous coal exceed 15 cents per ton of 2000
pounds."
September 6, 1917, the Fuel Administrator directed,
that "contracts relating to bituminous coal made before
the proclamation of the President on August 21, and contracts relating to anthracite coal made before the Presi(lent's proclamation of August 23. are not affected by
these proclamations, provided the contracts are bona fide
in character and are enforcible at law." [On August 23
the President issued an order fixing prices for anthracite
coal at the mines, effective September 1st.]
A statement and order by the Fuel Administrator, dated
September 7, 1917, contained the following paragraphs.

ADDY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
239

243

Opinion of the Court.

"A very large proportion of the coal supply available
for the coming winter is under contract. These contracts,
which are allowed to stand for the present, were made
prior to the President's proclamation and very largely
limit the amount which may be placed on sale at retail
prices based on the President's order.
"It is absolutely essential, however, that a sufficient
amount of coal be put on the market at once at these
prices to meet the needs of domestic consumers. The Fuel
Administration believes that this supply of coal can be
made available and will be made available by voluntary
arrangement between the operators and those with whom
they have contracts, and thus make it unnecessary for the
Fuel Administration to exercise or recommend the exercise
of the powers provided in the Lever Act."
On October 6, 1917, the Fuel Administrator further
directed"Coal may be bought and sold at prices lower than
those prescribed by the orders of the President.
"The effect of the President's orders on coal rolling
when the order affecting such coal was issued is to be decided by first ascertaining whether or not the title had
passed from the operator to the consignee at the time the
President's order became effective. If the title had passed
to the consignee, the price fixed by the President does not
apply. .
"A jobber who had already contracted to buy coal at
the time of the President's order fixing the price of such
coal, and who was at that time already under contract to
sell the same, may fill his contracts to sell at the price
named therein.
"A jobber who, at the time of the President's order
fixing the price of the coal in question at the mine, had
contracted to buy coal at or below the President's price,
and at that time had no contract to sell such coal, shall not
sell the same at a price higher than the purchase price plus

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

the proper jobber's commission as determined by the
President's regulation of August 23, 1917.
"A jobber who, at the time of the President's order
fixing the price of the coal in question, was under contract
to deliver such coal at a price higher than a price represented by the price fixed by the President or the Fuel
Administrator for such coal plus a proper jobber's commission as determined by the President's regulation of August
23, 1917, shall not fill such contract at a price in excess
of the President's price plus the proper jobber's commission, with coal purchased after the President's order
became effective and not contracted for prior tlhereto.
"A jobber who, at the date of the President's order fixing
the price of the coal in question, held a contract for the
purchase of coal without having already sold such coal,
shall not sell such coal at more than the price fixed by the
President or the Fuel Administrator for the sale of such
coal after the date of such order, plus the jobber's commission as fixed by the President's regulation of August
23, 1917."
The Fuel Administrator issued many other orders, not
presently important.
The petitioning corporation, Matthew Addy Company,
acting by petitioner Ford, the Vice President, did business
as coal jobber at Cincinnati, Ohio. By contract dated
July 31, 1917, it purchased many carloads of coal from
Bluefield Coal and Coke Company, at $3.25 per ton f. o. b.
the mines in West Virginia. With knowledge of jobbers'
margins fixed by the President's order of August 23, 1917,
it sold sundry lots of this coal during August and September, 1917, at $3.50 per ton f. o. b. the mines, without
having contracted so to do before that order issued. Do
these circumstances suffice to establish the offense
charged? We think not; and, accordingly, the judgments
below must be reversed.
The order must be construed as criminal statutes arestrictly and without retroactive effect unless clearly indi-

ADDY CO. v. UNITED STATES.
239

Opinion of the Court.

cated. Chew Heong v. UMited States, 112 U. S. 536, 559;
Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U. S. 529, 534. If it be construed as
applying to the sales of coal purchased by petitioners
prior to August 23rd, we must decide a grave constitutional question, not necessary to consider if another view
be accepted. Under the existing circumstances, (lid Congress have power to fix prices at which persons then owning coal must sell thereafter, if they sold at all, without
providing compensation for losses? If this difficulty can
be eliminated by some reasonable construction of the
order, it should be accepted. United States v. Delaware
& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407, 408.
The above quoted statements and orders show plainly
enough that in August, 1917, a very large part of the
available coal supply was under contract. This greatly
limited the amount which "may be placed on sale at
retail prices based on the President's order," as pointed
out on September 7th. Nevertheless, the contracts were
"allowed to stand for the present." Evidently the purpose was to begin the administration of the fuel supplies
by regulating subsequent transactions without striking
down all existing bona fide contracts which might affect
such supplies. If, prior to August 23rd, petitioners had
agreed to sell coal purchased in July, such contracts would
not have been within the order. October 6th more
sweeping rules were promulgated; one of them has direct
relation to circumstances like those here presented.
The order treated buying and selling as integral parts
of the regulated transaction and made no reference to
expenses incident thereto. If it applied only to transactions thereafter begun, all had opportunity to govern
themselves accordingly; but, if given retroactive effect,
jobbers who had negotiated purchases at costs exceeding
fifteen cents per ton would necessarily lose if they sold,
although they had acted in entire good faith. Certainly,
there was no purpose to encourage hoarding, contrary to

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

the Lever Act, ยง 26, or to retard movement of fuel to the
ultimate consumers by making sales unprofitable. No
imperative reason appears for treating jobbers who had
bought but had not contracted to sell with less consideration than was accorded those with agreements for sales,
irrespective of the stipulated price.
Considering the ordinary rules of interpretation and
the circumstances disclosed, we conclude that the order
of August 23rd did not apply to the sales in question. It
was not retroactive, and the sales were but part of a
transaction begun before its date. We are not unmindful
of the forceful argument to the contrary; and we consciously refrain from indicating any opinion respecting
the validity of the order as interpreted.
The judgments of the court below are reversed and the
causes will be remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
ERICKSON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES AND
UNITED STATES SPRUCE PRODUCTION CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 125.

Argued February 20, 1924.--Decided March 3, 1924.

1. A suit brought by the United States in the assertion of a substantial claim is within the jurisdiction of the District Court under
ยง 24 of the Judicial Code, whatever the decision on the merits.

P. 249.
2. Where the United States joined with the United States Spruce
Production Corporation (a federal war instrumentality, cf.
ClaUam County v. United States, 263 U. S. 341,) in an action on
contracts made by the latter with the defendants, held that the
case had the jurisdictional status of an action by the United
States, irrespective of the merits of its claim, and that objection
to the jurisdiction on the ground that the Corporation and one of

