Y. M. C. A. v. DAVIS.
Opinion of the Court.

YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF
COLUMBUS, OHIO, ET AL. v. DAVIS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 249. Argued January 11, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.
1. The Estate Tax imposed by the Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40
Stat. 1096, is not a succession tax upon the benefits received by

devisees and legatees, but an excise or death duty upon the transfer
of the decedent's estate. P. 49.
2. In providing that bequests to religious and charitable corporations
shall be deducted in determining the value of the net estate upon
which the tax is imposed, § 403, (3), the act does not undertake
to exempt the recipients of such charitable gifts from the burden
of the tax if placed upon them by the will. P. 50.
3. Hence, where the charitable gifts are residuary, and are diuly
taken into account in ascertaining the net taxable estate and the
amount of the tax, the act offers no obstacle to charging the tax,
with other costs and expenses, against the gross estate and :atisfying specific devises and bequests in full, before the charitable gifts
are satisfied. Id.
106 Oh. St. 366, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Ohio which affirmed a judgment directing an executor to
deduct a federal estate tax from the residuary estate,
given by the will to the present petitioners, and not from
the specific devises and bequests to the respondents.
Mr. James I. Boulger, with whom Mr. Frank Davis, Jr.,
Mr. Henry A. WTilliams and Mr. Guy W. Mallon were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Arthur I. Vorys, with whom Mr. James 3. Buitler
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Mary J. Sessions, a citizen and resident of Columbus,
Ohio, died on April 1, 1919, leaving a will executed Sep-

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tember 17, 1914, and disposing of a considerable estate.
The executor paid a tax of $31,000 to the United States as
the so-called "Estate Tax" under the Revenue Act of
1918, enacted February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1096.
The question in the case is what effect this payment
shall have in the distribution of the estate among the legatees and beneficiaries under the will. After providing that
her just debts and funeral expenses be paid and making a
number of specific legacies and devises, the testatrix gave
the rest, residue and remainder of all her property of every
description, including lapsed legacies, to the Young Men's
Christian Association of Columbus, the Young Women's
Christian Association of Columbus, Ohio, Berea College
and the American Missionary Association, to be divided
equally among them.
Section 401 of the estate tax law ubi supra,imposes "a
tax equal to the sum of the following percentages of the
value of the net estate (determined as provided in section 403)" "upon the transfer of the net estate of every
decedent dying after the passage of this Act." Then follow the percentages graduated according to value.
Section 403 provides that for the purpose of the tax
the value of the net estate shall be determined in the case
of a resident of the United States by deducting (1) funeral
and administration expenses, claims against the estate,
losses from casualties not insured against and amounts
which by law of the domicile are required for support of
dependents of testator, but not including income taxes or
estate, succession, legacy or inheritance taxes, but (2)
including property received by decedent by will or descent
within five years on which an estate tax was paid, and
(3) deducting:
"The amount of all bequests, legacies, devises, or gifts,
to or for the use of the United States, any State, Territory,
any political subdivision thereof, or the District of
Columbia, for exclusively public purposes, or to or for

Y. M. C. A. v. DAVIS.
47

Opinion of the Court.

the use of any corporation organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or
educational purposes
and (4) "an exemption of $50,000."
It is admitted that the corporations mentioned in the
iesiduary clause of the will come within the description of
subdivision (3).
The executor deducted from the gross estate the debts,
losses and charges and the specific devises and bequests,
to find the value of the residuary estate, which, together
with the debts, losses and charges, and $50,000, he then
deducted from the gross estate to get the value of the net
estate by a proper percentage of which the tax was measured and fixed. After paying the tax, he brought an
action in the Common Pleas Court of Franklin County,
Ohio, asking the direction of the court as to whether the
tax should be deducted from the amounts which were about
to be distributed to the specific legatees and devisees, or
from the residuary estate given to the charitable and
educational institutions named. All those taking under
the will were made defendants. The Common Pleas
Court and the Court of Appeals of Franklin County and
the State Supreme Court all held that the tax must be
paid out of the residuary estate, and a judgment was entered accordingly. We have brought the case here by
certiorari because of the federal question, seasonably
made in all the courts by the residuary legatees, that, in
the payment of the federal estate tax out of their residuum, they are deprived of a federal right of exemption
from the tax intended to be secured to them by subdivision (3) of § 403.
The argument of the petitioners is, that as the tax is
expressly made equal to a percentage of the value of the
net estate and is imposed upon the transfer of that net
estate, Congress can not have intended that the tax
978-51°

24-4t

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

should be paid out of the very gifts which by subdivision
(3) are excluded from the net estate. It is further urged
that the manifest purpose of Congress was to exempt the
beneficiaries under subdivision (3) from tax, and the
result of the construction by the Ohio courts is in this
case that they are the only ones to pay it. These arguments are persuasive, but they derive much of their
strength from the special circumstances of the present
case. They are pressed from a different standpoint from
that of Congress. What was being imposed here was an
excise upon the transfer of an estate upon death of the
owner. It was not a tax upon succession and receipt of
benefits under the law or the will. It was death duties as
distinguished from a legacy or succession tax. What this
law taxes is not the interest to which the legatees and
devisees succeeded on death, but the interest which
ceased by reason of the death. Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 48, 49.
Congress was thus looking at the subject from the standpoint of the testator and not from the immediate point of
view of the beneficiaries. It was intending to favor gifts
for altruistic objects, not by specific exemption of those
gifts but by encouraging testators to make such gifts.
Congress was in reality dealing with the testator before
his death. It said to him "if you will make such gifts,
we'll reduce your death duties and measure them not
by your whole estate but by that amount, less what you
give." In § 408 it is declared to be the intent and purpose
of Congress that as far as it is practicable and unless
otherwise directed by the testator, the tax is to be paid out
of the estate before distribution.
There is nothing in subdivision (3) of § 403 which exempts the recipients of altruistic gifts from taxation; it
only requires a deduction of them in calculating the
amount of the estate which is to measure the tax. It exempts the estate from a tax on what is thus deducted just

Y. M. C. A. v. DAVIS.
47

Opinion of the Court.

as subdivision (4) exempts in terms the estate from taxation on its first $50,000; but this does not operate to exempt any legatee who may be entitled to the first $50,000
in the distribution, from deduction to contribute to the
tax ultimately imposed, if by the law of the State, such
should be its incidence.
It was wholly within the power of the testatrix to
exempt her altruistic gifts from payment of the tax by
specific direction to her executor, if she chose. It must
be presumed when she failed to exercise the power, that
she intended the incidence of the tax to be where otherwise
by law it must be and therefore, that it was her purpose
that her residuary legatees were to receive all that was left
after paying all charges, including this tax, out of her
estate. The donees of the altruistic gifts profit much by
the deduction made under subdivision (3) even though
they do receive less by the amount of this tax. Had subdivision (3) not been in the statute, the tax would have
been much heavier, measured by a higher percentage of
the value of the whole estate including their gifts. It is
hardly true to say that under the judgment of Ohio courts
these residuary gifts are taxed. The gifts are and were intended by the testator to be indefinite in amount and to
be what was left after paying funeral expenses, attorneys
fees, executor's compensation, debts of the decedent and
taxes. These donees do not pay the taxes any more than
they pay the funeral expenses, the lawyers, the executors
and the testator's debts.
Judgment affirmed.

