348

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

the Interstate Commerce Commission asking for an order
to provide, maintain and use a union station; that a hearing followed and that, pending the decision in this Court,
the matter is held under consideration.
For the reasons given, we think the course taken by the
City of Los Angeles was the correct one. Until the Interstate Commerce Commission shall have acted under
paragraphs 18 to 21 of § 402 of the Transportation Act,
the respondent railways can not be required to provide a
new interstate union station and to extend their main
tracks thereto as ordered by the State Railroad Commission.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.
ATCHISON,

TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. NICHOLS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 268. Argued February 26, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
A statute of New Mexico (Anno. Stats., 1915, § 1820) provides
that, whenever any person shall die from an injury occasioned
by negligence of the servants, etc. of a railroad company whilst
running a train, the company "shall forfeit and pay for every
person or passenger so dying" the fixed sum of $5,000.00, to be
sued for and recovered by the husband in case of the death of
a wife.
(a) Held, that the purpose is not to punish an offense against
public justice, but to afford redress for a civil injury; and, therefore, enforcement of the right accruing from a death in New
Mexico by an action in another State is not objectionable to the
principle that one State will not enforce the penal laws of another. P. 350.
(b) The law of California (Code Civ. Proc., § 377) measures the
damages for death by wrongful act by the pecuniary loss resulting to the surviving relative, while the aboi'e cited act of

ATCHISON, ETC., RY. v. NICHOLS.
348

349

Opinion of the Court.

New Mexico fixes the amount, in the class of cases covered, at
$5,000.00. Held, that there is here no such difference of policy
as should deny the aid of the state and federal courts in California
to the enforcement of a cause of action arising under the New
Mexico statute in New Mexico. P. 352.
286 Fed. 1, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a judgment of the District Court for the
Railroad Company, and directing entry of judgment for
the plaintiff, Nichols, in his action to recover damages
for the death of his wife, alleged to have been caused by
the company's negligence. The action came into the
District Court by removal from the Superior Court of
California.
Mr. Robert Brennan, with whom Mr. Edgar W. Camp
and 'Ir. Gardiner Lathrop were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Milton K. Young, with whom Mr. Lyndol L.
Young and Mr. William K. Young were on the brief.
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Action for personal injuries received by Nichols' wife
while a passenger on a train of petitioner in New Mexico.
The injuries resulted in death. The action was brought
in one of the Superior Courts of the State of California
and removed on petition of petitioner to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of California,
Southern Division.
The amount sued for was $35,586.42, being composed
of the elements of $15,000.00 for the loss of services and
advice of the wife, $20,000.00 for the loss of her society,
love and affection, and $586.42 for various specified
services.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Judgment was rendered for petitioner, with costs. It
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals with directions to enter judgment for Nichols in the sum of $5,000.
The question of liability in some court petitioner does
not contest. It contests only that the law of New Mexico
upon which liability of petitioner was based is in conflict
with the policy of the State of California expressed in the
laws and decisions of the State. We therefore immediately encounter as an element for consideration the law
of New Mexico. It is as follows: "Whenever any person
shall die from any injury resulting from, or occasioned by
the negligence, unskillfulness or criminal intent of any
officer, agent, servant or employe whilst running, conducting or managing any locomotive, car, or train of
cars, . . . the corporation . . . in whose employ
any such officer, agent, servant, employe; engineer or
driver, shall be at the time such injury was committed, .
.
shall forfeit and pay for every person or
passenger so dying, the sum of five thousand dollars,
which may be sued [for] and recovered; First, by the
husband . . ." Anno. Stats. 1915, § 1820.
The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the law. Judge
Ross, addressing himself to the contention that the law
could not be enforced or administered in California or in
a federal court sitting in California, and considering the
ground of the contention to be that the law is penal, said,
"But a penal law is one thing, and a statute intended to
protect life and to impose a new and extraordinary civil
liability upon those causing death, by subjecting them to
private action for the pecuniary damages thereby resulting to the family of the deceased, is quite another. The
latter is a question of general law." For this were adduced Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657; Dennick v.
Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Cox, 145 U. S. 593.
The principle announced is contested and the application of the cases adduced to support it. The attack is

ATCHISON, ETC., RY. v. NICHOLS.
348

Opinion of the Court.

naturally directed against Huntington v. Attrill as it declares itself to be in submission and sequence to the other
cases as well as the expression of independent reasoning
and conclusion. The question there, as here, was upon
the character of a statute having "aspects" of penalty.
The statute was, however, excluded from the class of
criminal laws which had their venue of commission and
trial where committed, for it was decided to be, applying and quoting from Dennick v. Railroad Co., supra,
"though a statutory remedy, a civil action to recover
damages for a civil injury."' And this because the Court
decided that when a statute like the one passed on is
involved in consideration, the question whether it is one
"which in some aspects may be called penal, is a penal
law in the international sense, so that it cannot be enforced in the courts of another State, depends upon the
question whether its purpose is to punish an offence
against the public justice of the State, or to afford a
private remedy to a person injured by the wrongful act."
The reasoning of the Court is very complete with the
pertinence of cases, and it has the supplement of a number
of State rulings which the Circuit Court of Appeals has
adduced.
The law of New Mexico is within the principle and
description of those rulings, and of Huntington v. Attrill.
It is in reparation of a private injury, not in punishment
of "an offence against the public justice of the State."
Its reparation is in a fixed amount, it is true, but it is in
an amount that has been fixed by a consideration of the
determining factors, they necessarily having a certain
similarity in all cases. It was the legislative judgment,
therefore, that the interests of the State would best be
served by an exact definition of the measure of responsibility and relief when the circumstances were such as are
represented in the law. It is not less reparative because
so defined.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Against this conclusion an argument can be opposed
and is opposed,-one not without strength and the support of cases. We are unable to yield to it. We repeat,
we think the motive and effect of the law is not punishment in the sense of a penal law, but remuneration"damages for a civil injury." And a peculiar injuryone resulting from death and its deprivations-deprivations difficult to estimate (and which the common law
did not estimate in individual injury and redress), and,
therefore, we think properly within the power of the
State-its power to make provision for the controversies
and rights that may grow out of the relations of its people.
The contention of petitioner is, as we understand it,
not that damages in redress of death are opposed to the
policy of California, but only when damages are given
in a fixed amount as provided by the law of New Mexico,
the Code of Civil Procedure of the State giving such
damages only "as under all the circumstances of the
case may be just," I therefore, confining the damages
to compensation for pecuniary loss suffered by surviving
relatives of the deceased. This may be conceded-there
is nothing in the law of New Mexico that transcends
the purpose. It does not preclude the recovery of damages--it only defines them, recognizing, as the Supreme
Court of California has recognized, the incapability of
precise accuracy being attained either by court or jury
of the damages that may result from the death of a
person to surviving relatives. (Redfield v. Oakland C.S.
'" Sec. 377. When the death of a person not being a minor is
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or
personal representatives may maintain an action for damages against
the person causing the death, or if such person be employed by
another person who is responsible for his conduct, then also against
such other person. In every action under this and the preceding
section, such damages may be given as under all the circumstances
of the case may be just."

UNITED STATES v. GAY.
348

Counsel for Parties.

Ry. Co., 110 Cal. 277, 285. See also Ryan v. North
Alaska Salmon Co., 153 Cal. 438.)
We do not regard, therefore, the code of the State as
expressing the policy of the State to be that the aid of
its courts and of the federal courts sitting in the State
are to be denied the power to enforce the redress given
by the law of the State where the injury was inflicted,
the law not being penal.
Tudgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

concurs in the result.

UNITED STATES v. GAY.
APPEAL FROM

No. 205.

THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued March 11, 1924-Decided April 7, 1924.

Section 3 of the Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 122S, in providing
that when any naturalized citizen shall have resided for two years
in the foreign state from which he came it shall be presuned
that he has ceased to be an American citizen, does not apply to
a retired officer of the Navy who resided abroad with the permission of the Navy Department, reported to it each year as
required by the regulations, evidenced his willingness to respond to
'the call of duty and performed no act inconsistpnt with his allegiance or his official status. P. 356.
57 Ct. Chms. 424, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims sustaining the claim of a retired warrant machinist in the
Navy for pay unlawfully withheld.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. John G. Ewing were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
9977.1*°-24-23

