CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BOARD OF TRADE OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO
ET AL. v. JOHNSON, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF HENDERSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued November 26, 1923M-Decided February 18, 1924.

1. Decisions of state courts defining property rights do not bind the
federal courts in bankruptcy, when contrary to the policy and
proper construction of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 10.
2. A membership in the Chicago Board of Trade, which, under the
rules of the association, the owner may sell to any person eligible
to membership approved by the board of directors, subject to
the right of his co-members to prevent the sale or transfer until
he satisfies his debts to them, is incorporeal property, the possession
and control of which, for the purpose of disposition in accordance
with the rules, pass to the member's trustee in bankruptcy, under
§ 70a (5) of the Bankruptcy Act.' Pp. 8, 12.
3. The right of the trustee in bankruptcy to have the membership
sold, as against the Board and members claiming the right to prevent transfer until debts owed them by the bankrupt are paid
-may be determined by the District Court in a summary proceeding. P. 11.
4. Where the rules provided that a membership in an exchange
might be transferred with the approval of the directors, if there
were no unsettled claims upon the owner, and if the membership
was not in any way impaired or forfeited, and directed that, prior

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioners.

264 U. S.

to transfer, the application therefor should be posted 10 days,
when, in the absence of objection, "it shall be assumed the member
has no outstanding claims against him," held that failure of creditor members to object to a proposed transfer, during the 10 days,
or withdrawal of objections made, did not estop them from objecting soon after the owner of the membership went into bankruptcy, the directors not having approved the transfer meanwhile. P. 14.
5. Members of an exchange having claims under contract made with
a co-member acting as agent of a corporation, held entitled under
the rules of the exchange, to object to a transfer of the membership by the owner's trustee in bankruptcy until their claims against
the corporation were satisfied. P. 15.
6. The right of a member of an exchange under its rules to prevent
by objection a transfer of the seat of another member, until satisfaction of a debt owed the one by the other, held in the nature
of a lien upon the membership at its creation assertable after the
membership passed to the debtor's trustee in bankruptcy. P. 15.
283 Fed. 374, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
which affirmed, upon petition to review, a decree of the
District Court in bankruptcy, adjudging that a seat of
a member in the Chicago Board of Trade was property
passing to his trustee in bankruptcy free of all claims of
other members, and ordering that it be held for transfer
and sale for the benefit of the general creditors.

Mr. Henry S. Robbins for petitioners.
Jurisdiction in the District Court could not be sustained within the exception in § 23b of the Bankruptcy
Act, which permits suits by the trustee in the courts
where the bankrupt might have brought them. The
ground of diverse citizenship was not available.
The Board and its co-petitioners were adverse claimants. As to them, it was a "controversy in bankruptcy."
The membership was not in possession of the trustee.
There was no jurisdiction to adjudicate summarily.
Smith v. Mason, 14 Wall. 419; Marshall v. Knox, 16

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.
1

3

Argument for Respondent.

Wall. 551; First National Bank v. Title & Trust Co., 198
U. S. 280; Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524;
Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1; Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216
U. S. 102; Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188; Galbraith
v. Vallely, 256 U. S. 46; Louisville Trust Co. v. Conzingor,
184 U. S. 18; Martin v. Oliver, 260 Fed. 89; In re Bacon,
210 Fed. 129; In re Cotton, 209 Fed. 124; In re McCruin,
214 Fed. 207; In re Rathman, 183 Fed. 913; O'Dell v.
Boyden, 150 Fed. 731.
The court below erred, on the merits: (1) In holding
that the right of the Board of Trade under its rules to
suspend a member, and to refuse to transfer his membership, until his debts to other members were paid,
ceased upon the appointment of a trustee in bankruptcy.
even as respects debts which had accrued before the
bankruptcy proceedings; (2) in holding that this membership was an asset in bankruptcy. Sparhawk v. Yerkes,
142 U. S. 1; Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 52,5; Page v.
Edmunds, 187 U. S. 601; Barclay v. Smith, 107 Ill.
349; In re Gregory, 174 Fed. 629; People v. Board of
Trade, 80 Ill. 134.
Mr. Robert AT. Erskine, with whom Mr. F. William
Kraft was on the brief, for respondent.
The property was in the possession and control of the
bankruptcy court and its trustee.
The jurisdiction of a District Court to deal with it by
summary proceedings is plain, including the right to
settle all adverse claims. Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S.
539; In re Hoey, 290 Fed. 116; In re Gottlieb & Co., 245
Fed. 139; Orinoco Iron Co. v. Metzel, 230 Fed. 40; In re
Wegman Piano Co., 228 Fed. 60; O'Dell v. Boyden, 150
Fed. 731; I Collier, Bankruptcy, 12th ed., pp. 541-544.
The contention that under the Board of Trade rules
no person can be a member unless accepted by the Board,
and therefore neither title nor possession of the bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

264 U. S.

rupt membership can pass to the trustee, has been expressly overruled in Board of Trade v. Weston, 243 Fed.
332, under the authority of Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523,
and Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596.
A membership in a Board of Trade passes to the
custody and possession of the trustee. O'Dell v. Boyden,
150 Fed. 731; In re Hoey, 290 Fed. 116.
The petitioners were not such adverse claimants at
the time of the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings
as would entitle them to interpose objection to the jurisdiction of the District Court. Mueller v. Nugent, 184
U. S. 1; Schweer v. Brown, 195 U. S. 171; In re Bacon,
210 Fed. 129; In re Ransford, 194 Fed. 658; In re Davis,
119 Fed. 950.
Section 70e of the Bankruptcy Act expressly confers
jurisdiction on the bankruptcy court, and that section is
one of the exceptions named in § 23b. Weidhorn v. Levy,
253 U. S. 273.
The trustee takes the membership as property subject to the rules of the Board, but also with the advantage
of all the privileges and rights which the bankrupt had
pursuant to the rules. He took it free and clear of any
claims.
Title was transferred by operation of law and is an asset
in this bankruptcy estate, regardless of the conditions
which affect its value. Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596;
Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523; In re Hoey, 290 Fed. 116;
In re Stringer, 253 Fed. 352; O'Dell v. Boyden, 150 Fed.
731; In re Hurlbutt, Hatch & Co., 135 Fed. 504; In re
Gaylord, 111 Fed. 717; Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240
U. S. 184; Citizens Natl. Bank v. Durr, 257 U. S. 99.
The cases of Barclay v. Smith, 107 Ill. 349, and People
v. Board of Trade, 80 Ill. 134, do not hold that such a
membership is not property, but that it is not property
subject to judicial process under the statutes of Illinois.
Cf. Weaver v. Fisher, 110 IlI. 146.

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.

5

Argument for Respondent.

The question, in any event, is not one of statutory interpretation but a definition of property; and the federal
courts are not bound by the Illinois decisions. Page v.
Edmunds, 187 U. S. 601; In re Page, 107 Fed. 89; In re
Gaylord, 111 Fed. 717; Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U. S.
29; Board of Trade v. Weston, 243 Fed. 332; Frazin v.
Oppenheim, 174 Fed. 713. Cf. Gazlay v. Williams, 210
U. S. 41; In re Adams, 134 Fed. 142; Central Trust Co.
v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240 U. S. 581.
If the trustee complies with the conditions imposed by
the rules, there is no limitation, and no power on the part
of the Board, to prevent his making a sale and transfer.
Objections to the bankrupt's application to transfer
were all disposed of and withdrawn before the petition in
bankruptcy was filed.
The rights of the trustee date from the filing of the petition in bankruptcy. Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1;
Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S.
300; In re Weinger, Bergman & Co., 126 Fed. 875; Page
v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596; In re Hurlbutt, Hatch & Co.,
135 Fed. 504; Bailey v. Baker Ice Machine Co., 229 U. S.
268. Creditors can not now complain.
Under § 47 a-2 of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended in
1910, the trustee had the rights of a creditor holding a
lien. In re Seward Dredging Co., 242 Fed. 225.
These creditors of the corporation, even granting they
had the right to file protests, were under obligation to file
them in due course. They knew that if protests were not
filed within ten days the member could sell, but they did
not file for nearly nine months nor until after the petition
in bankruptcy was filed.
There must be express provisions in the rules to justify
an impairment of a membership depriving it of all value.
In re Gaylord, 111 Fed. 717.
There is no basis in the rules for making claims against
a corporation personal obligations of its officer holding a
membership.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

264 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We have brought this cause before us by certiorari to
review the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
Seventh Circuit in affirming, upon petition to review, a
decree of the District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, in a summary proceeding dealing with the membership' of a bankrupt in the Chicago Board of Trade.
The District Court, finding that the membership was
property and under the rules of the Board passed to the
trustee in bankruptcy free of all claims of the members,
ordered that it be held for transfer and sale for the benefit
of the general creditors.
The case presents two questions. First-Had the District Court jurisdiction to deal with the case by summary
proceedings?
Second-If the District Court had such jurisdiction,
was its decree right upon the merits?
The petition and amendment of the trustee asked that
the Board of Trade and certain members be required to
show cause why the trustee's right to the membership of
the bankrupt should not be recognized by the Board of
Trade, so as to permit its transfer and sale. Pleas to the
jurisdiction, with special appearances, were filed by the
respondents, alleging that the membership was not property, or capable of being treated as an asset of the bankrupt, that transfer of it had been duly objected to by
respondents as members, and that they had adverse claims
creating a controversy which the District Court, under
paragraphs a and b of § 23, of the bankrupt law, was
denied jurisdiction to hear. The pleas were overruled.
Reserving the question of jurisdiction, the Board of Trade
filed an answer, which the other respondents adopted.
The cause was heard upon the petition, its amendment,
and the answer, which disclosed the following:

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.

7

Opinion of the Court.

Wilson F. Henderson, the bankrupt, a citizen of Chicago, was admitted to membership in the Board of Trade
in 1899, and for many months prior to March 1, 1919,
was president and one of the principal stockholders in a
corporation known as Lipsey and Company, and actively
engaged in making contracts on its behalf for present and
future delivery of grain on the Board of Trade. In
March, 1919, Lipsey and Company became insolvent and
ceased to transact business, being then indebted to thirty
or more members of the Exchange on its contracts in an
aggregate amount of more than $60,000. A corporation
is not admitted to membership of the Board, but under
the rules it may do business on the Exchange if two of
its executive officers, substantial stockholders, are members in good standing and give its name as principal in
their contracts. The rules further provide that, if the
corporation is accepted as a party to a contract and fails
to comply with any of its obligations under the rules, its
officers, as members, are subject to the same discipline
as if they had failed to comply with an obligation of
their own.
Any male person of good character and credit and of
legal age, after his name has been duly posted for ten
days, may be admitted to membership in the Board of
Trade by ten votes of the Board of Directors, provided
that three votes are not cast against him and that he
pays an initiation fee of $25,000, or presents "an unimpaired or unforfeited membership, duly transferred," and
signs "an agreement to abide by the Rules, Regulations
and By-Laws of the Association." The rules further provide that a member, if he has paid all assessments and
has no outstanding claims held against him by members,
and the membership is not in any way impaired or forfeited, may, upon payment of a fee of $250, transfer his
membership to any person eligible to membership approved by the Board, after ten days posting, both of the
proposed transfer and of the name of substitute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

No rule exists giving to the Board of Trade or its
members the right to compel sale or other disposition of
memberships to pay debts. The only right of one member against another, in securing payment of an obligation,
is to prevent the transfer of the membership of the debtor
member by filing objection to such transfer with the
Directors.
The membership of Henderson was worth $10,500 on
January 24, 1920, when the petition in bankruptcy was
filed against him. All assessments then due had been
paid and the membership was not in any way impaired
and forfeited. On May 1, 1919, Henderson had posted
on the bulletin of the Exchange a notice and application
for a transfer of his membership. Within ten days, two
objections were filed, one of them on account of a debt
due from Lipsey and Company. The objections were
withdrawn, however, in December, 1919. On January 29,
1920, however, five days after the petition in bankruptcy
was filed, members, creditors of Lipsey and Company on
its defaulted contracts signed by Henderson, lodged with
the Directors objections to the transfer. These objectors
were respondents in the District Court and are petitioners
here.
Under par. a, § 70 of the bankrupt law of July 1, 1898,
c. 541, 30 Stat. 565, the trustee takes the title of the bankrupt (3) to "powers which he might have exercised for his
own benefit," and (5) to "property which prior to the
filing of the petition he could by any means have transferred or which might have been levied upon and sold
under judicial process against him." Petitioners insist
that the membership is not property within (5). The
Supreme Court of Illinois, from which State this Board of
Trade derives its charter, has held, in Barclay v. Smith,
107 Ill., 349, that the membership is not property or subject to judicial sale, basing its conclusion on the ground
that it can not be acquired except upon a vote of ten Di-

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.

9

Opinion of the Court.

rectors, and can not be transferred to another unless the
transfer is approved by the same vote, and that it can not
be subjected to the payment of debts of the holder by legal
proceedings. It is not possible to reconcile Barclay v.
Smith with the decisions of this Court. In Hyde v.
Woods, 94 U. S. 523, the bankrupt was a member of the
San Francisco Stock and Exchange Board, a voluntary
association with an elective membership, and with a right
in each member to sell his seat subject to an election, by
the Directors, of the vendee as a member. This Court
held the membership to be an incorporeal right and property which would pass to the trustee of the bankrupt, subject to the rules of the Board, which required first the payment of all debts due to the members. In Sparhawk v.
Yerkes, 142 U. S.1, the conclusion in Hyde v. Woods was
reaffirmed in respect of seats in the Stock Exchanges of
New York and Philadelphia, which were then voluntary
unincorporated associations, with the same provision as to
membership and preference for the debts of member creditors. In Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596, the question
was whether a seat of a bankrupt in the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange was property passing to the trustee under subdivision 5 of § 70 of the Bankrupt Act. In that association, no member could sell his seat if he had unsettled
claims on the Exchange. In case of insolvency, the seat
could be sold, and the proceeds distributed to the member
creditors. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania had held,
just as in this case the Supreme Court of Illinois has held,
that such membership was not property, and could not
be seized in execution for debts of its holder. Thompson
v. Adams, 93 Pa. St. 55; Pancoast v. Gowen, 93 Pa. St.
66. These were the cases relied on by the Supreme Court
of Illinois to sustain its view. Referring to the Pennsylvania decisions in Page v. Edmunds (p. 603), this Court
said:
"It is not certain whether the learned court intended to
say that the seat was not property at all, or not property

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

because it could not be seized in execution for debts. If
the former, we cannot concur. The facts of this case demonstrate the contrary. If the latter, it does not affect the
pending controversy. The power of the appellant to
transfer it was sufficient to vest it in his trustee."
The Court thus held that the question was to be determined by reference to the language of the Bankrupt Act
and that the seat was property "which prior to the filing
of the petition he [the bankrupt] could by any means
have transferred." It declined to limit the definition of
property under subdivision (5) to such as the state courts
might hold could be seized in execution by judicial process.
Subdivision (3), vesting in the trustee title to powers
which the bankrupt might exercise for his own benefit,
manifests a purpose to make the assets of the estate
broadly inclusive. By a construction not unduly strained,
subdivision (3) might be held to include a power to transfer a seat on the Exchange. subject to its rules, if it were
necessary.
In Citizens National Bank v. Durr, 257 U. S. 99, we
held, following the Hyde, Sparhawk and Page Cases,
supra, that membership in the New York Stock Exchange
was personal property, whose situs followed that of the
owner, and was taxable where he was domiciled.
Congress derives its power to enact a bankrupt law from
the Federal Constitution, and the construction of it is a
federal question. Of course, where the bankrupt law
deals with property rights which are regulated by the state
law, the federal courts in bankruptcy will follow the state
courts; but when the language of Congress indicates a
policy requiring a broader construction of the statute than
the state decisions would give it, federal courts can not be
concluded by them. Board of Trade v. Weston, 243
Fed. 332.
Counsel for petitioners urges that the Hyde, Sparhawk
and Page Cases differ from the one before us, in that the

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.

11

Opinion of the Court.

rules of the associations there under consideration provided specifically for a sale of the seat and a preferred
distribution of the proceeds to the creditor members.
whereas here there is no sale provided for at all, at the
instance of the Board or its members who are creditors.
Their only protection is in the power to prevent a transfer
as long as the member's obligations to them are unperformed. We do not think this makes a real difference in
the character of the property which the member has in
his seat. He can transfer it or sell it subject to a right
of his creditors to prevent his transfer or sale till he settles
with them, a right in some respects similar to the typical
lien of the common law, defined as "a right in one maii
to retain that which is in his possession belonging tc,
another, till certain demands of him the person in possession are satisfied." Haonoidsv. Barclay, 2 East, 235.
Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 620. The right of the
objecting creditor members differs, however, from the
comnon law lien, in that the latter, to exist and he
effective, must deprive the owner of possession and enjoyment, whereas the former is consistent with possession
and personal enjoyment by the owner, and only interferes
with, and prevents, alienation.
We are brought then to the contention that petitioners
are adverse claimants, and are entitled to be heard in a
plenary suit. This turns on the question who was in
possession of the seat. If the bankrupt was in possession
when the petition in bankruptcy was filed, then the authorities leave no doubt that the possession passes to the
trustee and that his possession justifies the District Court
in determining the validity of the liens claimed in a summary proceeding by a rule to show cause against the
claimants. Hebert v. Crawford, 228 U. S. 204; Babbitt
v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102; Murphy v. Hof man Co., 211
U. S. 562; Lazarus v. Pren~tice, 234 U. S. 263, 266; Clay
v. Waters, 178 Fed. 385, 392.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The petitioners argue that a seat in the Exchange, even
if it be property, is incapable of manual possession, that
it is really only a chose in action, and that the bankrupt
or his trustee is no more in actual possession of it for
the purposes of summary jurisdiction than the trustee
would be in manual possession of a debt, to enforce the
payment of which the trustee must certainly bring a
plenary action against the resisting debtor. Membership
on the Board of Trade is different from a mere chose in
action, like a simple claim or debt asserted against another
and only to be enjoyed after its satisfaction or enforcement. It is a continuously enjoyed "incorporeal right ".
Hyde v. Woods, supra. The Board of Trade is the member's trustee while it maintains and holds all its facilities
for his use and enjoyment. As long as he has these, he
may properly be said to be in possession of them. That
creditor members may assert a mere restraint of alienation to enforce their claims does not oust the member's
possession or personal enjoyment. By operation of the
bankrupt law, the membership passes, subject to rules
of the Exchange, to the trustee, for his disposition of it.
The trustee does not become a member, but he does come
into control of the bankrupt's right to dispose of the
membership; and, with the aid of the bankruptcy court,
can require the bankrupt to do everything on his part
necessary under the rules of the Board to exercise this
right. The membership is property, in a way attached
to the person of the bankrupt and disposable only by
his will. It follows him, therefore, into the bankruptcy
court, which is given full equitable jurisdiction over his
conduct in respect of his estate, and, therefore, it comes
into the custody of that court to be administered by it
as part of his estate.
The Board is not in an adverse attitude toward the
bankrupt. It holds the membership for the bankrupt in
conformity to the rules as to his enjoyment and disposi-

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.

13

Opinion of the Court.

tion of it. We think that the principle of Bryan,v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188; Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1;
and Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539, applies here, and
that, within those cases, the seat is held by the Board
for the bankrupt, and that in bankruptcy the right to
dispose of it under the rules passes into the control, and
therefore into the possession, of the trustee.
A similar question was before the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in O'Dell v. Boyden, 150
Fed. 731. The membership was in the New York Stock
Exchange, personal to the holder, and only to be transferred, under the rules of the Exchange, and by consent
of its committee on admissions, to a new member satisfactory to them. It was held that, in bankruptcy, the
membership passed into possession of the trustee as assets
of the estate and that, being thus in the custody of the
court, the claim of one to whom the owner of the seat
had previously made an assignment of it to secure a debt,
was to be settled in a summary proceeding in the bankruptcy court. Judge Lurton, afterwards a Justice of this
Court, in passing on the question of possession, said
(p. 737):
"The 'seat' or 'membership' continued to be the
'seat' of Henrotin, [the bankrupt] and was a pecuniary
asset which passed to his trustee. It was as much in his
custody and possession as such a species of property is
capable of. . . . Only through a court of equity can
the pecuniary value of such an asset be realized to
creditors or assignees. Only by decree in personam compelling the bankrupt member can such a transfer of membership be effectuated as will put the buyer in the place
of Henrotin as a member. Over him for that purpose
the bankrupt court has exclusive control and in this sense,
also, may it be said that the 'seat' or 'membership'
was in custodia legis when the trustee sought the aid
of the court to adjudicate the claims and liens asserted
by O'Dell."

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

See also In re Hoey, 290 Fed. 116; Orinoco Iron Co. v.
Metzel, 230 Fed. 40.
For the reasons given, we hold that the District Court
had jurisdiction to determine the issues arising in respect
to the membership by summary proceeding.
This brings us to the merits. The District Court
ordered the transfer and sale of the seat free from all
the claims and objections of the petitioners. The view
of the court was that, because Henderson had duly
posted his intention to transfer in May, 1919, and all the
objections of creditor members then filed against such
transfer had been settled or withdrawn before the petition in bankruptcy was filed against him, the right of
the member creditors to object to the transfer had been
lost. The rule which is applicable (Section 2 of Rule
X) reads in part as follows:
"Every member shall be entitled to transfer his membership when he has paid all assessments due, and has
against him no outstanding unadjusted or unsettled
claims or contracts held by members of this Association,
and said membership is not in any way impaired or forfeited, upon payment of two hundred and fifty dollars, to
any person eligible to membership who may be approved
for membership by the Board of Directors, after due
notice by posting, as provided in Section 1 of this
rule. . . . Prior to the transfer of any membership, application for such transfer shall be posted upon the bulletin
of the exchange for a least ten days when, if no objection is made, it shall be assumed the member has no outstanding claims against him."
We do not think these last words are intended to operate
as a statute of limitations against the making of objections before the Board of Directors to such a transfer
after the ten days. The effect of the rule is to warrant
the Directors in proceeding, after the ten days, to effectuate the transfer on the assumption that no one entitled

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. JOHNSON.

15

Opinion of the Court.

opposes it, and, if the transfer is completed before objection, those who have been silent are, of course,
estopped. But if, at any time before the Directors act,
otherwise valid objections are brought to their attention,
it is too drastic a construction to hold that delay for ten
days after notice has worked a forfeiture. To give the
rule such a meaning, the intent should be more clearly
expressed. The objections of most of the petitioners herein were filed within five days after the petition in bankruptcy and the Board never has acted on the application
for transfer. The objections are therefore valid.
The claims of the petitioners are also attacked on the
ground that they were debts of Lipsey and Company and
not of Henderson, the bankrupt. There is nothing in
this. The rules make the agent of a corporation who is
a member and does business and makes contracts in its
name on the Exchange, subject to discipline for a default in the obligations of the corporation. This impairs
the membership of the agent and prevents transfer under Section 2, Rule X.
Nor is there any weight to the argument that, as the
preference claims of petitioners were not asserted until
after bankruptcy proceedings were begun, the transfer
to the trustee was rendered free from their objection.
Such a claim was negatived in Hyde v. Woods, supra.
The preference of the member creditors is not created
after bankruptcy. The lien, if it can be called such, is
inherent in the property in its creation, and it can be
asserted at any time before actual transfer. Indeed, the
danger of bankruptcy of the member is perhaps the chief
reason, and a legitimate one, for creating the lien.
We think, therefore, that the District Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals erred on the merits of the case.
The claims of the petitioners amount to more than sixty
thousand dollars, and these must be satisfied before the
trustee can realize anything on the transfer of the seat
for the general estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and the
District Court are reversed, and the case is remanded to
the District Court to proceed in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
BARNETT ET AL. v. KUNKEL ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 134.

Argued January 4, 1924.-Decided February 1S, 1924.

1. The Court of its own motion Will dismiss an appeal not within its

jurisdiction. P. 19.
2. The federal jurisdiction of the District Court must appear in the
plaintiff's statement of his case. P. 20.
3. A bill to quiet title, averring diversity of citizenship, and showing that the land in question was allotted Indian lands conveyed
to plaintiff under the federal law and generally that the defendant
asserts a conflicting title, but not showing that the conflict will
involve the validity of conveyances made in virtue of the federal
law, invokes the jurisdiction of the District Court on the ground
of diverse citizenship only, so that review of the decree on the
merits, even though 1derai issues were brought in by answer and
cross bill, or at the trial, .id decided, is final in the Circuit Court
of Appeals (Jud. Code, § 12s,j umess thlb Court shall grant a certiorari (Id. § 240.) Pp. 19-21.
4. Section 3 of the Act of June 25, 1910, authorizing appeals to this
Court "in all suits affecting the allotted lands within the eastern
district of Oklahoma," etc., was repealed by the Judicial Code.
P. 21.
Appeal to review 283 Fed. 24, dismissed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a decree of the District Court for the plaintiff Kunkel, and the Prairie Oil and Gas Company, made
defendant by'a cross bill, and against the defendants and
cross plaintiffs, Barnett et al., in a suit brought by Kunkel
to quiet title to a piece of land in Oklahoma. Certiorari
was refused. 260 U. S. 738. A petition for rehearing was
denied.

