R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.

331

Syllabus.

320

necessary to pass upon the validity of the method of
making disclaimers here pursued, because we agree with

the Sixth Circuit Court in failing to find invention in the
State device either as a mechanical or as a method patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.

RAILROAD

COMMISSION

CALIFORNIA v.
PANTY ET AL.

OF THE

SOUTHERN

STATE

PACIFIC

OF

COM-

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA
FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
RAILROAD

COMMISSION

CALIFORNIA

OF THE STATE

OF

v. LOS ANGELES & SALT LAKE

RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 283-285.

Argued November 22, 1923.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. In view of the policy and provisions of the Transportation Act,
establishment of a new union station for several interstate carriers, involving the abandonment of their separate stations, extensive changes and relocations of their main tracks and very
great expense, cannot be brought about by voluntary action of thc
carriers or order of a state commission in the absence of a
certificate of the Interstate Commerce Commission, under pars.
18-21 of § 402 of the act. P. 342.
2. The provisions of the Transportation Act, § 402, pars. 18-21,
that no interstate carrier shall extend its line of railroad unless
and until the Interstate Commerce Commission shall certify that
public convenience requires it, and forbidding the Commission to
authorize such extension unless it finds it reasonably required
in the interest of public convenience or necessity or that the ex-

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

264 U. S.

pense will not impair the carrier's ability to perform its duty
to the public,-construed, as not confined to extensions with a
purpose to include new territory to be served by a carrier, but
as including proposed extensions of main tracks within a city
to a proposed new union station, involving changes in the intramural destinations of carriers and in the handling of interstate trafft, and necessitating great expense. P. 344.
190 Cal. 214, affirmed.

CERTIORAm to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
California, annulling, upon review, an order of the State
Railroad Commission which sought to require the abovenamed railroads to eliminate certain grade crossings and
establish a new union terminal depot, in the City of
Los Angeles.
Mr. William W. Clary and Mr. Hugh Gordon for
petitioner.
The amendments of 1920 to the Commerce Act vest
no power in the Interstate Commerce Commission relative to new union passenger depots.
Section 15a is referred to by the court below only as
showing generally the greatly enlarged powers of the
Commission and its affirmative duty to maintain an
adequate railway service for the people of the United
States. Section 5, pars. 4 and 5, relate to the general
plan for the consolidation of railway properties of the
United States into a limited number of systems. They
are quoted in the decision as being expressive of the enlarged scope and purposes of the act. Section 1, pars.
3 and 10, are referred to to show the definitions of the
terms "railroad" and "car service." None of these sections makes any reference to depots or terminal facilities.
Section 1, par. 1, gives the Commission power, when
an emergency exists, (a) to suspend established rules,
(b) to make directions relative to car service, (c) to
require joint use of terminals, including main line tracks
for a reasonable distance outside of such terminals. This

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

333

Argument for Petitioner.

language does not authorize the Commission to require
the erection of a new union depot for permanent use,
but refers to the joint use during emergencies of existing
terminals.
Section 1, par. 18, refers to the construction, extension
and abandonment of railroad lines and provides for the
issuance of certificates of public convenience and necessity
therefor.
The State Commission ordered neither the construction
nor the abandonment of a "line of railroad." True, the
erection of a new union depot and the elimination of
grade crossings will require a rearrangement of traffic.
Some new track may have to be laid and some old track
abandoned. The amount of new track necessary is very
small.
The Interstate Conunission has held that such relocations of trackage not affecting the service to the public, do
not constitute either the construction or abandonment of
"lines of railroad" within par. 18, § 1 of the Commerce
Act. Matter of Philadelphia,Newtown & N. Y. R. R. Co.,
67 I. C. C. 252; latter of Pearl Valley R. R. Co., 67 I.
C. C. 748. This is borne out by Texas v. Eastern Texas
R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 204.
Here, the carriers will not abandon or cease operating
their roads or any part of them. They will merely shift
their lines in such a way as to carry on the same operations they do now, but with more safety and convenience
to the public.
Paragraph 21 of § 1 authorizes the Commission to require any carrier to provide adequate facilities for performing" its car service as that term is defined in the Act "
and to extend its line or lines. The term "car service"
is defined in par. 10 of § 1 and has to do with the supply,
distribution and exchange of cars and locomotives. The
clause as to extension of lines is similar to that found in
par. 18 of § 1, except that par. 18 applies to cases where

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

264 U. S.

permission to extend is sought by the carrier and par. 21
to cases where the carrier is ordered to extend by the
Commission upon its own initiative or upon complaint.
In neither case is a mere rearrangement of existing trackage an extension of a "line of railroad" within the meaning of these provisions. Paragraph 22 exempts from the
authority of the Commission, conferred by pars. 18 to 21,
inclusive, all construction or abandonment of spurs, industrial tracks, etc., located wholly within one State.
Paragraph 3 of § 3 refers to the interchange of traffic
between different carriers, and has no bearing on the issue
before the Court. Paragraph 4 of § 3 refers to existing
terminal facilities. It is not inconsistent with § 36 of the
California Public Utilities Act. Paragraph 4 refers to a
"carrier owning or entitled to the enjoyment of terminal
facilities." It provides for the use of the "terminal facilities including main line track for a reasonable distance outside such terminal" of one carrier by another
carrier. It provides that "the carrier whose terminal facilities are required to be so used" may recover compensation. These expressions plainly mean existing terminal
facilities.
It may be claimed that the order cannot be obeyed without a joint use of certain existing facilities such as main
line tracks; and that the order is for that reason repugnant to the provisions of par. 4. The State Commission
did not order the railroad companies to carry out any of
the proposed plans. It simply ordered them to construct
a depot somewhere within a large area according to plans
which they themselves were to prepare. To say that no
possible plan for a union depot can be devised which does
not require a joint use of tracks is merely to speculate in
advance of any attempt to prepare final plans.
Paragraph 20 of § 1 prohibits the railroads from making
any constructions or abandonments of lines of railroad
without the consent of the Interstate Commerce Commis-

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

335

Argument for Petitioner.

sion. The prohibitions of the paragraph refer expressly
to pars. 18 and 19 of § 1. They do not refer to existing
terminal facilities, which are covered by § 3, par. 4. The
state court erroneously construed par. 20 to apply to "the
extension of railroad facilities and the abandonment of
other railroad facilities, including terminals."
As already shown, the order required no construction or
extension of new lines or abandonment of old lines within
the meaning of the act as construed by the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Nor did it require any joint use
of facilities. The prohibitions of § 20 therefore did not
terminate the power of the State Commission to make the
order.
The fact that many kinds of regulations are specifical]y
.provided for in the act, as, for instance, interchange of
traffic, switch connections, car service, securities, extensions into new territory, consolidation of lines, etc., while
the act is silent as to any regulation concerning new union
depots, indicates that the latter are not covered by the
act.
If, after plans are prepared for a union depot in compliance with the State Commission's order, it should be
deemed advisable to invoke the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission in connection with any part
of the work, such as a joint use of tracks, or for the issuance of securities, application may be made to the Interstate Commerce Commission at that time. The present
validity of the order is not affected by this possibility.
Under well settled law, an order of the Railroad Commission is not invalid merely because it cannot be carried
out until some other public authority takes additional or
concurrent action. Mlfotor Transit Co. v. Railroad Comm.,
189 Cal. 573; Oro Elec. Co. v. Railroad Comm., 169 Cal.
466; Turner Co. v. Chicago, etc., Ry. Co., 36 S. Dak. 310.
The legislative history of the act clearly indicates an
intention that jurisdiction over union passenger depots

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner,

264 U. S.

should not be taken away from the States. See Cong.
Rec., Nov. 15, 1919, pp. 9067-9071.
If the amendments of 1920 should be construed to cover
the subject of union depots, nevertheless the State's power
remains unimpaired and the State Commission's order is
valid unless the Interstate Commerce Commission makes
an inconsistent order."
The proviso of par. 17, § 1, in plain terms preserves the
police power of the State to require just and reasonable
freight and passenger service for intrastate business. The
fact that a carrier may also be engaged largely in interstate business does not deprive the State of this reserved
power unless the State makes a requirement that is
"inconsistent with any lawful order of the Commission
[interstate] made under the provisions of this act."
The proviso in par. 17 is in effect a congressional enactinent of the principle announced in Missouri Pac. Ry. Co.
v. Larabee Flour Mills Co., 211 U. S. 612, viz., that even
when Congress has entered a particular field of interstate
commerce and has authorized the Interstate Commerce
Commission to exercise jurisdiction therein, nevertheless,
unless the matter is one to be handled by general rule or
regulation, the States may continue to act as to particular
situations unless and until the Interstate Commerce Commission takes action as to such particular situations.
The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce,
although supreme and exclusive, remains dormant until
actually exercised. The mere enactment of laws by Congress does not arouse this dormant power unless those
laws are of such nature as to exclude any action by the
States.
New York Central R. R. Co. v. Public Service Comm.,
233 N. Y. 113, is not in point, because § 3, par. 3 of the
Commerce Act, as amended, specifically provides for the
interchange of traffic, and the New York court held that
the New York law did not authorize the state commission
to make such q requirement.

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

337

Argument for Petitioner.

The State Commission's finding that public convenience and necessity require the operation of a union depot
was consistent with, and supported by, the evidence.
The Commission's findings on questions of public convenience and necessity were final and conclusive under
the California law.
The Commission under the police power of the State
has authority to order the railroads to erect a union depot
as an essential measure for the elimination of dangerous
grade crossings. Erie R. R. Co. v. Board of Public
Utility Commrs., 254 U. S. 394.
The order, in requiring the construction and use of the
new union depot and the abandonment of the present
facilities, does not deprive railroads of property in violation of the guarantees of the Federal Constitution.
The Commission's requirement that the operation of
trains on Alameda Street be eliminated after the construction of the union depot does not impair the obligation of a contract contained in a franchise permitting the
railroads to operate trains on Alameda Street.
The Commission's order is not invalid because it may
require the railroads to expend large sums of money and
to exercise power of eminent domain in acquiring the
necessary land and constructing a union depot.
Mr. C. W. Durbrow, with whom Mr. Wn. F. Herrin,
Mr. Frank C. Cleary, Mr. J. P. Blair, Mr. F. H. Wood,
Mr. Win. R. Harr, Mr. E. W. Camp, Mr. M. TV. Reed,
Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, Mr. A. S. Haisted and Mr. Fred
E. Pettit, Jr., were on the briefs, for respondents.
Mr. John E. Benton and Mr. Paul A. Walker, by leave
of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae, on behalf of the
National Association of Railway and Utilities Commissioners and of the regulatory commissions of twenty-nine
States.
97851-24------22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is whether the State Railroad
Commission of California has power to require the Southern Pacific Company, the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Railway Company and the Salt Lake & Los Angeles Railroad Company to build an interstate union depot in the
city of Los Angeles.
The proceedings were begun in 1916 before the Railroad
Commission by complaints of Civic Associations and
others against the Railway Companies. Before the hearing and the decision were had, the Transportation Act of
Congress of 1920 was enacted. In December, 1921, after
two hearings, an amended order against the Railways was
made by which they were required to remove certain
grade crossings and to build a union terminal within a
certain defined area in the city.
The Railway Companies sought review of this order in
the Supreme Court of the State, and their three writs
were heard and disposed of as one case. The Supreme
Court of the State held that the order was beyond the
power of the State Railroad Commission, because the subject matter was committed to the Interstate Commerce
Commission by the Transportation Act of 1920. The
court further held that if the order had effected the elimination of grade crossings alone, it would have been valid,
but that, associated as it was with the establishment of the
17nion Station, it must be annulled. We have brought the
case of the Commission against each of the railways here
by certiorari.
Lines of the three'railways approach Los Angeles from
the north and come together in the city near the North
Broadway viaduct as it crosses the Los Angeles River.
Thence the Salt Lake and Santa Fe lines follow the bed of
the Los Angeles River, one on its east and the other on
its west bank. The Salt Lake passenger station is at 1st

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

339

Opinion of the Court.

Street. Its main line from Pasadena and Glendale comes
from the north, but its line from Salt Lake comes in from
the south. From north to south in Los Angeles, its line
hugs the east bank of the river for three miles. The Santa
Fe Station is opposite that of the Salt Lake Railway on
the west bank. The Santa Fe hugs the west bank for
three miles in the city. One of its lines leaves Los Angeles
by the north for Chicago. Another leaves the city by the
south through Riverside for Chicago. The Southern Pacific does not follow the river bed after passing under the
Broadway viaduct but extends in a southwesterly direction
until it reaches the north end of Alameda Street. From
that point it runs south through the city at grade on that
street. Its station is at 5th Street and lies southwesterly
from the Salt Lake and Santa Fe stations and a quarter
of a mile distant from them. The eastern main line of the
Southern Pacific crosses the river at Alhambra Avenue.
joins the San Francisco main line and reaches the
station from there by the same tracks on Alameda Street.
The Southern Pacific occupies Alameda Street on grade
and longitudinally in both directions from its station for
three miles. Its lines toward the South go to San Pedro
and Santa Anna.
The order of the Railroad Commission requires the
abandonment of the passenger stations of the three railways. The Southern Pacific Station is a comparatively
modern depot and would be adequate for many years.
Those of the other two companies are not adequate, but
they have ample ground upon which to construct suitable
stations. The order required the removal from Alameda
Street of the'main line of the Southern Pacific for three
miles, permitting the use of its tracks in that street for
switching during a,few hours at night. The order also required that by viaducts over the river and over the Salt
Lake & Santa Fe tracks on the river banks, grade crossings should be eliminated. The order further required

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

that the three railways should purchase jointly land
enough in an area reaching from Alameda Street to the
river and from Aliso Street to Alhambra Street to erect a
suitable Union Station, to be situated somewhere near a
square called the Plaza. The railways are directed to
make such additions to, extensions of, improvements and
changes in the existing railroad facilities of said companies as may be reasonably necessary and incidental to
the use of said Union Passenger Station. This would require the removal of the present station of the Southern
Pacific from 5th Street toward the Plaza, at least half a
mile, and the stations of the Santa Fe and the Salt Lake
from 1st Street on the river to the Plaza more than a
quarter of a mile. The changes to be effected under the
order will require, in the abandonment of the Southern
Pacific main track on Alameda Street for three miles, a
joint use by the Southern Pacific of main tracks on the
river bank with either the Salt Lake or the Santa Fe, or
the construction of its own main tracks on one side or the
other along the river bank. The main tracks of the Salt
Lake must be extended across the Los Angeles River on a
viaduct to the area selected for the Union Station. The
main track of the Santa Fe runs along the river side of the
selected area but an extension of its main tracks will have
to be made to bring it into the new station.
The order requires the joint use of land, tracks and
terminal facilities valued at $28,050,691; the abandonment of three existing passenger stations of the railways
as such, and the ultimate capital expenditure for all
recommendations of from $25,000,000 to $45,000,000.
The Railroad Commission in the Supreme Court of
the State pressed the argument that, in view of its finding that the Union Station was an indispensable element
in getting rid of the grade crossings, it had the incidental
right to order its building. The court rejected the argument. It said:

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

341

Opinion of the Court.

"That notwithstanding the views expressed by the
Railroad Commission in its findings and conclusions in the
proceeding herein presented for review, we can perceive
no indispensable relation between the elimination of
grade crossings and the establishment of union depot
facilities, nor can we see an unsurmountable difficulty
why jurisdiction over the matter of eliminating grade
crossings may not be exercised in a proper case consistently, and it may be concurrently, with the exercise
of the authority which is vested by the Act of Congress
of 1920 in the Interstate Commerce Commission over
the subject of union terminal depot facilities."
The State Supreme Court thus modifies the findings
of the Railroad Commission in so far as they sought
to tie the validity of its order establishing a union station to its unquestioned police power to regulate grade
crossings in the interest of the public safety. We avoid
any inquiry how far, if at all, the principle laid down
in Erie R. R. v. Board of Public Utility Cornmrs., 254
U. S. 394, is qualified by the provisions of the Transportation Act. Our only question here is whether the
power to direct a new union station with its essential
incidents is committed exclusively to the Interstate Commerce Commission under the Act of 1920.
In Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States, 263
U. S.456, 478, this Court said of the Transportation Act:
"The new act seeks affirmatively to build up a system
of railways prepared to handle promptly all the interstate traffic of the country. It aims to give the owners
of the railways an opportunity to earn enough to maintain their properties and equipment in such a state of
efficiency that they can carry well this burden. To
achieve this great purpose, it puts the railroad systems of
the country more completely than ever under the fostering guardianship and control of the [Interstate Commerce] Commission, which is to supervise their issue of

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

securities, their car supply and distribution, their joint
use of terminals, their construction of new lines, their
abandonment of old lines, and by a proper division of
joint rates, and by fixing adequate rates for interstate
commerce, and in case of discrimination, for intrastate
commerce, to secure a fair return upon the properties
of the carriers engaged." New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184; Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563.
On the one hand, it is urged that, with the purposes
thus declared, the act commits to the supervision and
control of the Interstate Commerce Commission such
an undertaking as is here in question involving a new
capital investment of from twenty-five to forty-five millions of dollars in the terminals of three great interstate
railway systems in the largest city of our Western Coast.
On the other hand, it is earnestly contended that, since
no specific provision is made for the supervision of interstate union stations, by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the whole subject remains in the control of the
state Railroad Commissions. We must examine the sections of the act in some detail to determine the force of
these counter contentions.
The term railroad is defined in the act, par. 3, § 400,
to include all switches, spurs, tracks, terminals and terminal facilities of every kind used or necessary in the
transportation of persons or property, including freight
depots, yards and grounds used therein. Section 402,
after defining the term "car service" under the act as
including use, control, distribution, and exchange of locomotives, cars and other vehicles used in interstate transportation, provides for just regulation of it by the Commission, and gives that body power, in case of shortage
of equipment or other emergency, to suspend the regulations, to give just directions, without regard to ownership,
to promote the service and to adjust proper compensation

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

343

Opinion of the Court.

for its use, and "to require such joint or common use of
terminals, including main-line track or tracks for a reasonable distance outside of such terminals," as in the opinion
of the Commission will meet the emergency and the public
interest, and upon hearing determine just compensation
for use of same. Paragraph 16 authorizes the Commission to provide transportation by other carriers if one
carrier is unable to handle its traffic upon terms fixed by
the Commission.
By § 405, amended § 3 of the Interstate Conunerce Act
provides in its third paragraph that all carriers shall afford
all reasonable facilities for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines and for forwarding and delivering passengers. Paragraph 4 provides that the Commission may in the public interest and without impairment of a carrier's power to handle its own business with
its terminal facilities, require the use of its terminal
facilities, including its main-line track or tracks for a
reasonable distance outside of its terminal-for another
carrier or carriers, upon such terms as may be agreed
upon by the parties, fixed by the Commission or determined by suit as in condemnation proceedings.
It is obvious from the foregoing that Congress intended
to place under the superintending and fostering direction
of the Interstate Commerce Conmission all increased
facilities in the matter of distribution of cars and equipment and in joint terminals, in the exchange of interstate
traffic and passengers between railways so as to make it
prompt and continuous. It not only provides for the
temporary expropriation of terminals and main track of
one railway to the common use of one or more other
railways in an emergency, but it also contemplates the
compulsory sharing of one company's terminals with one
or more companies as a permanent arrangement. This
is a drastic limitation of a carrier's control and use of its
own property in order to secure convenience and dispatch

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.
a

for the whole shipping and travelling public in interstate
commerce. It gives to the Interstate Commerce Commission the power and duty, where the public interest
requires, to make out of what is the passenger and freight
station of one interstate carrier, a union station or depot.
But it is insisted that the supervisory power thus conferred does not include the installation of an interstate
union station, where its terminals and main tracks are
newly built, and the interstate carriers are compelled to
expropriate, not the terminal property of another interstate carrier, but property of others than carriers not
theretofore used for terminals. This would be giving
power to the Interstate Commerce Commission to provide
for a small and contracted union station of interstate
carriers limited to the terminals of one carrier, and would
leave the larger and more important union stations of
interstate carriers to the control of state commissions.
We think, however, that means of control over installation
of such new union stations for interstate carriers is given
to the Interstate Commerce Commission in amended
paragraphs (18 to 21) of § 402. They provide that no
interstate carrier shall undertake the extension of its line
of railroad or the construction of a new line of railroad,
or shall acquire or operate any line of railroad, or extension thereof, or shall engage in transportation over such
additional or extended line of railroad, unless and until
the Commission shall certify that public convenience
present or future requires it, and that no carrier shall
abandon all or any portion of its line or the operation of
it without a similar certificate of approval. Such a certificate is, we think, necessary in the construction of a
new interstate union station which involves a substantial
and expensive extension of the main tracks or lines of
interstate carriers who theretofore have maintained separate terminals.
It is argued that paragraphs 18 to 21, of § 402.
refer only to extensions of a line of railroad having the

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

345

Opinion of the Court.

purpose to include new territory to be served by the interstate carrier and do not refer to an extension of new
main track for the mere purpose of rearranging terminals
within the same city. We do not think the language of
paragraphs 18 to 21 can be properly so limited. We are
confirmed in this by paragraph number twenty-two which
immediately follows:
"The authority of the Commission conferred by paragraphs (18) to (21), both inclusive, shall not extend to the
construction or abandonment of spur, industrial, team,
switching or side tracks, located or to be located wholly
within one State, or of street, suburban, or interurban electric railways, which are not operated as a part or parts of a
general steam railroad system of transportation."
This is a palpable distinction between the main tracks
of an interstate carrier, and its spur, industrial, switching
or side tracks, and shows the legislative intention to retain
any substantial change in the main tracks within the control of the Interstate Commerce Commission. It may
well be that a mere relocation of a main track of an interstate carrier which does not involve a real addition to, or
abandonment of, main tracks and terminals, or a substantial change in destination, does not come within the paragraphs 18 to 21. One might, too, readily conceive of railroad crossings or connections of interstate carriers in which
the exercise by a state commission of the power to direct
the construction of merely local union stations or terminals without extensions of main tracks and substantial
capital outlay should be regarded as an ordinary exercise
of the police power of the State for the public convenience and would not trench upon the power and supervision of the Interstate Commerce Commission in securing proper regulation of an interchange of interstate traffic
or passengers. Only a lawful order of the Interstate Commerce Commission would raise a question of the power of

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

a state commission in such cases, as the proviso of paragraph 17, § 402 of the Transportation Act shows:
"That nothing in this Act shall impair or affect the
right of a State, in the exercise of its police power, to require just and reasonable freight and passenger service for
intrastate business, except in so far as such requirement
is inconsistent with any lawful order of the Commission
made under the provisions of this Act."
But there is a great difference between such relocation
of tracks or local union stations and what is proposed here.
The differences are more than that of mere degree; they
and their consequences are so marked as to constitute a
change in kind. They come within paragraphs 18 to 21 of
§ 402 and require a certificate of the Interstate Commerce
Commission as a condition precedent to the validity of
any action by the carriers or of any order by the State
Commission.
The proviso of paragraph 21 of § 402 is significant of
the distinction we are pointing out. It forbids the Commission to authorize or order the extension of its lines
"unless the Commission finds, as to such extension, that
it is reasonably required in the interest of public convenience and necessity, or as to such extension . . . that
the expense involved therein will not impair the ability
of the carrier to perform its duty to the public."
The extensions of the lines and main tracks of these
railways under the plan which the State Commission has
ordered are not great in distance, but they involve a new
intramural destination for each railway with important
changes in the handling of interstate traffic and passengers. Great expense attends such changes of the main
tracks in a crowded city, and they here carry with them
as necessarily incident thereto, the abandonment of available sites and of valuable existing passenger and freight
stations and the construction of a new union station elsewhere, imposing on the three railways a cost in making

R. R. COMM. v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
331

347

Opinion of the Court.

the changes of from twenty-five millions to forty-five millions of dollars. We think it clear that in such an extension of main lines with their terminals the Interstate Commerce Commission is required by the act to make a finding
that the expense involved will not impair the ability of
the carriers concerned to perform their duty to the public.
The purpose of Congress to prevent interstate carriers
from incurring expense which will lessen their ability to
perform well their interstate functions is further shown in
§ 439 of the Transportation Act, whereby the Interstate
Commerce Act is amended by insertion of § 20a. This
new section subjects to the approval or rejection of the
Interstate Comnerce Commission the issue by an interstate carrier of all future shares of stock, bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness and forbids approval unless the
Commission shall find that their issue is for a lawful purpose, is compatible with the public interest, is appropriate
and necessary to the discharge of its public duty as a common carrier and will not impair its ability to perform that
service. This is of course in pari materia with the restriction of paragraph 21 of § 402 to prevent a possible impairment of the financial ability of interstate carriers to discharge their interstate commerce duties. Such a heavy
burden as that involved in this new union station and
the main track changes and extensions and other accessories would in all probability require the three railways
to issue new capital securities and this could not be done
without the approval of the Interstate Conmerce Commission. To be sure this provision only becomes operative when securities have to be issued and would not, of
itself, prevent action by a state commission until such
securities are seen to be necessary; but the provision indicates the general congressional plan.
We were advised by statements at the bar that, after
the California Supreme Court handed down its decision
in this case. the City of Los Angeles filed a petition with

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

the Interstate Commerce Commission asking for an order
to provide, maintain and use a union station; that a hearing followed and that, pending the decision in this Court,
the matter is held under consideration.
For the reasons given, we think the course taken by the
City of Los Angeles was the correct one. Until the Interstate Commerce Commission shall have acted under
paragraphs 18 to 21 of § 402 of the Transportation Act,
the respondent railways can not be required to provide a
new interstate union station and to extend their main
tracks thereto as ordered by the State Railroad Commission.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.
ATCHISON,

TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. NICHOLS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 268. Argued February 26, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
A statute of New Mexico (Anno. Stats., 1915, § 1820) provides
that, whenever any person shall die from an injury occasioned
by negligence of the servants, etc. of a railroad company whilst
running a train, the company "shall forfeit and pay for every
person or passenger so dying" the fixed sum of $5,000.00, to be
sued for and recovered by the husband in case of the death of
a wife.
(a) Held, that the purpose is not to punish an offense against
public justice, but to afford redress for a civil injury; and, therefore, enforcement of the right accruing from a death in New
Mexico by an action in another State is not objectionable to the
principle that one State will not enforce the penal laws of another. P. 350.
(b) The law of California (Code Civ. Proc., § 377) measures the
damages for death by wrongful act by the pecuniary loss resulting to the surviving relative, while the aboi'e cited act of

