EDWARDS v. SLOCUM.
Opinion of the Court.
EDWARDS, FORMERLY COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE SECOND DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK, v. SLOCUM ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 276. Argued January 10, 1924.-Decided February IS, 1924.

In assessing the "Estate Tax" under the "Revenue Act of 1918,"
40 Stat. c. 18, Title IV, charitable bequests which are deductible
from the gross estate in fixing the net taxable estate should be deducted without any diminution on account of the tax itself, even
though, being residuary, they will ultimately bear the tax burden.
P. 62. Cf. Yoing Men's ChristianAssn. v. Davis, ante, 47.
287 Fed. 651, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of

Appeals affirming a judgment of the District Court for
the plaintiffs in their action to recover from the Collector
the amount of a tax paid. under protest.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert Thorne for respondents.
Mr. Harlan F. Stone and Mr. Edward H. Green, by
leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the Executors of
the Estate of Joseph R. DeLamar, as amic curiae.
MR.

JusTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the respondents, executors
of the will of Mrs. Sage, to recover the amount of a tax
paid under protest. The tax was levied under the Act
of February 24, 1919, c. 18, ยง 400; 40 Stat. 1057, 1096,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U.S.

which imposes upon "the transfer of the net estate of
every decedent dying after the passage of this Act" taxes
equal to specified percentages of the net estate determined
as provided in ยง 403. Mrs. Sage left an estate of $49,129,256.99. She bequeathed specified sums amounting to
$1,285,000 for charitable purposes, $8,618,079.55 for purposes other than charitable, and the residue to charitable
and educational institutions named. It is admitted that
in estimating the tax now in question there is to be deducted from the gross estate the sum of $3,789,321.74 for
debts and expenses and the charitable gifts of $1,285,000.
These with the gifts to individuals above stated would
leave a residue of $35,436,855.70, which the executors
contend is exempt by the statute. Adding to the sums
admitted to be exempt the residue thus arrived at and
the statutory exemption of $50,000, the amount for which
exemption is claimed will be $40,561,177.44, leaving a
taxable remainder of $8,568,079.55. The Government required the payment of an additional sum reached by deducting from the exempted estate the amount of the tax
to be paid, or in other words, adding the amount of the
tax to the taxable estate. The suit is to recover this
additional sum. The executors prevailed in the District
Court and Circuit Court of Appeals after a discussion with
which the Government well might have remained satisfled. 287 Fed. 651.
The Government's argument turns largely upon the
consideration that a residue is only what is left after the
payment of paramount claims. But this is not a tax
upon a residue, it is a tax upon a transfer of his net estate
by a decedent, a distinction marked by the words that
we have quoted from the statute, and previously commented upon at length in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41, 49, 77. It comes into existence before and is independent of the receipt of the property by the legatee.
It taxes, as Hanson, Death Duties, puts it in a passage

EDWARDS v. SLOCUM.
61

Opinion of the Court.

cited in 178 U. S. 49, "not the interest to which some
person succeeds on a death, but the interest which ceased
by reason of the death." It levies a sum equal to a certain percentage of the value of the net estate, and provides the criteria by which the net estate shall be ascertained. It thus manifestly assumes that the net estate
will be ascertained before the tax is computed. The
Government offers an algebraic formula by which it would
solve the problems raised by two mutually dependent
indeterminates. It fairly might be answered, as said by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, that "algebraic formulae
are not lightly to be imputed to legislators," but it appears
to us that the structure of the statute is sufficient to
exclude the imputation. As further remarked below, the
theory departs from the long established practice of the
law not to regard the incidence of a tax in the levying
of a tax, and the position of the Government is contrary
to the expressed intent of the statute to encourage charitable bequests. It is inconsistent with itself also in maintaining that while the distribution of the burden of taxation among the several beneficiaries is a matter of state
regulation, the residue is not to be diminished by the
state inheritance tax but only by the estate tax of the
United States.
.hdgment affirned.
The CiamF JusricE took no part in the decision of this
case.

