FLEMING v. FLEMING.
Syllabus.

22

against particular persons and classes, especially such as
are of an unusual character, unknown to the practice of
our governments, might,be obnoxious to the constitutional
prohibition. It would, however, be impracticable and
unwise to attempt to lay down any general rule or definition on the subject, that would include all cases. They
must be decided as they arise. We think that we are safe
in saying, that the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equol
taxation."
Clearly there is nothing of an unusual character in the
method adopted in this case for the assessment and collection of taxes upon street railways. The general practice
of providing special methods of estimating the burden of
taxation which this peculiar kind of property should bear
is well known and proves that it justifies a separate classification.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Affirned.
FLEMING ET AL. v. FLEMING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMNIE COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 175.

Argued January 17, 1924.-Decided Febru: ry 1', PU2 .

1. An objection to a decision of a State Supreme Court that it impaired contract rights, in violation of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution, by overruling former decisions, was first made to that
court by a second petition for rehearing, and was denied upon the
ground that the prior decisions were not overruled. Held, a consideration of the point sufficient as a basis for assigning error here.
P. 31.
2. The impairment of contract obligation forbidden by Art. I, § 10, of
the Constitution, is impairment by legislation. The proposition
that judicial impairment is included has been so frequently denied
that it can not support a writ of error to a State Supreme Court.
Id. Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan,263 U. S. 444.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

3. A state statute in force when a contract was made cannot be made
a subsequent statute within the meaning of Art. I, § 10, of the
Constitution through new interpretation by the state courts. P. 31.
Writ of error to review 194 Iowa, 71, dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa,
which affirmed a judgment for the plaintiff, in her suit to
recover her statutory share, as widow, of property left by
her deceased husband, and claimed by the defendants as
his surviving partners.
Mr. B. I. Salinger, with whom Mr. A. B. Cummins was
on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. M. Parsons,with whom Mr.Earl C. Mills was on
the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. CHimF JUSTIcE TAF- delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Iowa.
The suit was begun in Polk County District Court by
Anna B. Fleming, widow of Charles Fleming, against three
brothers of her husband, one of whom had become his admninistrator, to secure her dower rights under the state
statute in the share of her husband in the property of a
partnership of the four brothers, in the business of soliciting and placing life insurance. The defendants' claim was
that Charles lost all interest in the partnership upon his
death, that by virtue of three contracts the property
passed to the survivors, and the partnership of the three
continued in possession and title free from any claim by
heirs, next of kin, or the widow of Charles. The Supreme
Court of Iowa held that these contracts constituted a contract by each partner to make a will to his survivors, were
testamentary in character, and were avoided by § 3376 of
the Code of Iowa, providing that as between husband and
wife the survivor's share can not be affected by any will
of the spouse without previous consent of the survivor.

FLEMING v. FLEMING.
29

Opinion of the Court.

It is assigned for error that in this ruling the Supreme
Court of the State reversed its former rulings, under which
such a contract of partnership had been held to be valil
and not avoided by § 3376 or any other section of the
Code; that on the faith of these rulings, the partnership
contracts herein had been entered into, and that the new
construction of the statute was an impairment of the contracts of partnership in violation of Article I, § 10, of the
Federal Constitution. This objection was made in the
Supreme Court of the State on the application for a second rehearing, and the court held in its opinion that the
point was not well taken because no prior decisions had in
fact been overruled. This is a sufficient consideration of
the point by the State Supreme Court before its judgment.
to justify an assignment of error raising the federal question, if in fact and in law it be one.
In Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan, 263 U. S. 444, we had
occasion to consider the same issue. After a somewhat
full examination, we held that, by a score of decisions of
this Court, a judicial impairment of a contract obligation
was not within § 10, Article I, of the Constitution, since
the inhibition was directed only against impairment by
legislation, and that such judicial action presented no
federal question of which this Court could take jurisdiction on a. writ of error from a state court.
It is urged upon us that the impairment here is legi lative, in that the case turned on the effect of § 3376 of the
Iowa Code; that the subsequent judicial construction of it
became part of the statute and gave it a new effect as a
law. In other words, the contention is that the same
statute was one law when first construed, before the making of the contract, and has become a new and different act
of the legislature by the later decision of the court. This
is ingenious but unsound. It is the same law. The effect
of the subsequent decisions is not to make a new law but
only to hold that the law always meant what the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

now says it means. The court has power to construe a
legislative act, but it has no power by change in construction to date its passage as a law from the time of the later
decision. A statute in force when a contract was made
can not be made a subsequent statute through new interpretation by the courts. Any different view would be at
variance with the many decisions of this Court cited in
the FlanaganCase.
For these reasons, we must hold that the claim of plaintiffs in error does not raise a substantial federal question,
and dismiss the writ of error for lack of jurisdiction.
Writ of Error Dismissed.

MAHLER ET AL. v. EBY, INSPECTOR IN CHARGE
IMMIGRATION SERVICE, U. S. DEPARTMENT
OF LABOR, AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 184. Argued January 24, 25, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.
1. The inhibition of ex post facto laws, (Const. Art. I, § 9) applies
only to criminal laws, and not to a law for deporting aliens who
by ccnviction of crime are shown to be undesirable as residents
of this country. P. 39.
2. The deportation thus provided is not punishment. Id.
3. Repeal of the law under which an alien was convicted does not
do away with the conviction as a basis of subsequent deportation.
Id.
4. The Alien Act of May 10, 1920, establishes classes of persons who
in the judgment of Congress are eligible for deportation and directs
the Secretary of Labor to deport those, of these classes, whom he
finds to be undesirable residents. Held not invalid as a delegation
of legislative power, since the discretion delegated is sufficiently
defined by the policy of Congress and the common understanding
as to what "undesirable residents" are. P. 40.
5. Greater precision is required of statutes defining and punishing
crimes (Cohen Grocery Co. Case, 255 U. S. 81) than of those

