LA. PUB. SERV. COMM. v. MORGAN'S CO. 393
375

Syllabus.

of due process of law. In the nature of things, the right
to choose cannot be accorded to both parties, and, if
accorded to either, should rest with the one seeking
redress rather than the one from whom redress is sought.
At the trial the defendant requested a directed verdict
in its favor on the ground that no actionable negligence
was shown, but the request was denied. Although approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the ruling is
complained of here. In view of the concurring action
of the two courts, we deem it enough to say that the
record discloses sufficient evidence of negligence to warrant its submission to the jury.
The defendant also complains that two requests which
it preferred on the subject of assumption of risk were
denied. The requests were so framed that, considering
the state of the evidence, they would not have conveyed
a right understanding of the subject and might well
have proved misleading. Their refusal was not error.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND did not hear the argument
or participate in the decision.

LOUISIANA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION,
ET AL. v. MORGAN'S LOUISIANA & TEXAS
RAILROAD & STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 421.

Argued March 5, 6, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. Under the Louisiana Constitution of 1921, Art. XIV, ยง 22, the
general control of its own streets is an ordinary governmental
function of the City of New Orleans. P. 399.
2. The Louisiana Constitution of 1921 did not invest the State
Public Service Commission with such control over streets within

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

New Orleans that it may compel a railroad company to repair
and keep up a street viaduct constructed over its tracks by the
city under a contract which granted that right to the city without
expropriation or compensation upon the express condition that the
city should pay the cost of the erection and subsequent maintenance
of the viaduct. P. 399.
287 Fed. 390, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining the
appellants from enforcing an order requiring the appellee
railroad company (plaintiff below) to repair a viaduct
over its tracks.
Mr. W. M. Barrow, with whom Mr. A. V. Coco, Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, was on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Henry H. Chafie, with whom Mr. George Denegre,
Mr. Victor Leovy, Mr. Harry McCall and Mr. Jas. Hy.
Bruns were on the brief, for appellee.
Mr. Ivy G. Kittredge, by leave of Court, filed a brief
on behalf of the City of New Orleans, as amicus curiae,
asserting its jurisdiction over the subject matter in
question.
Mr. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
March 29, 1923, the appellant Commission issued an
order which directed"That within fifteen days from the date of this order
the Morgan's Louisiana and Texas Railroad and Steamship Company shall commence to repair and put in a safe
and suitable condition for vehicular and other traffic, such
repairs to be completed within a reasonable time thereafter, the existing viaduct over, above and across the
properties of the said Morgan's Louisiana and Texas Railroad and Steamship Company in the Fifth Municipal

LA. PUB. SERV. COMM. v. MORGAN'S CO. 395
393

Opinion of the'Court.

District of the City of New Orleans, known as Algiers,
within the limits of the said property, which connects the
two ends of Newton Street, and thereafter to maintain
the same in a safe and suitable condition. This order
shall become effective at once."
By an original bill filed in the court below appellee
challenged the validity of the order because beyond the
power of the Commission; and, if within such power,
enforcement would deprive the Company of property
without due process of law and impair the obligation of
its contract with the City of New Orleans, contrary to the
Federal Constitution. The allegations are sufficient to
bring the controversy within the court's jurisdiction and
empowered it to determine questions of both state *and
federal law. Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 499, 508. A special court of three judges,
Jud. Code, ยง 266, heard the issues, held the Commission
-lacked power to make the order and directed an interlocutory injunction. See 287 Fed. 390. The cause is
here by direct appeal.
In 1878 the appellee Railroad Company acquired title
to certain land now in New Orleans, fronting 375 feet on
the Mississippi River and extending back 4,000 feet, and
for forty years has held it under fence. Twenty tracks
laid thereon are in constant use. During 1904 the City
offered to sell the right to operate a street railway over
this property, subject to part payment of the cost of constructing and the entire cost of maintaining the essential
viaduct, which the City agreed to provide. This franchise
was duly adjudicated, and in 1905 appellee, by definite
contract, granted to the City the right to construct the
present viaduct over its property at Newton Street, upon
the express condition that the grantee should pay for both
erection and subsequent maintenance. Under this contract, and not otherwise, without expropriation of the
right of way by the public or compensation to the land

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

owner, the structure was erected. It is 2,000 feet long
and extends several hundred feet on either side of appellee's land. For many years the street railway operated
over its entire length. Finally, the portion over appellee's tracks fell into disrepair and both City and street
railway company failed to restore it. Finding this situation, appellant issued the order copied above.
Art. VI, Louisiana Constitution of 1921 provides-"Section 4. The Commission shall have and exercise
all necessary power and authority to supervise, govern,
regulate and control all common carrier railroads, street
railroads . . . and other public utilities in the State of
Louisiana, and to fix reasonable and just single and joint
line rates, fares, tolls or charges for the commodities furnished, or services rendered by such common carriers or
public utilities, except as herein otherwise provided.
"The power, authority, and duties of the Commission
shall affect and include all matters and things connected
with, concerning and growing out of the service to be
given or rendered by the common carriers and public
utilities hereby, or which may hereafter be made subject
to supervision, regulation and control by the Commission. ....
"Section 9. Until otherwise provided by the Legislature, all laws enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Louisiana since the adoption of the Constitution
of 1898, and in effect at the time of the adoption of this
Constitution, affecting, concerning, or relating to the Railroad Commission of Louisiana, not inconsistent with any
of the provisions hereof, shall be construed as referring
and applying to the Louisiana Public Service Commission,
and nothing in this Constitution shall be construed as in
any manner impairing or affecting such laws."
The Commission claims that the power which it undertook to exercise is conferred by these sections and that
the Supreme Court of the State so held in Gulf, C. & . F.

LA. PUB. SERV. COMM. v. MORGAN'S CO. 397
393

Opinion of the Court.

Ry. Co. v. Louisiana Public Service Commission, 151 La.
635.
The court below entertained another view of the constitutional grant and of the opinion relied upon. We
think the conclusion which it reached is correct; and its
decree must be affirmed.
Article 284, Louisiana Constitutions of 1898 and 1913"The power and authority is hereby vested in the
Commission [Railroad, Express, Telephone, Telegraph.
Steamboat and other Water Craft, and Sleeping Car
Commission, created by Art. 283], and it is hereby made
its duty to adopt, change or make reasonable and just
rates, charges and regulations, to govern and regulate
railroad, steamboat and other water craft, and sleeping
car, freight and passenger tariffs and service, express
rates, and telephone and telegraph charges, to correct
abuses, and prevent unjust discrimination and extortion
in the rates for the same, on the different railroads,
steamboats and other water craft, sleeping car, express,
telephone and telegraph lines of this State, and to prevent such companies from charging any greater compensation in the aggregate for the like kind of property or
passengers, or messages, for a shorter than a longer distance over the same line, unless authorized by the Commission to do so in special cases; to require all railroads
to build and maintain suitable depots, switches and appurtenances, wherever the same are reasonably necessary
at stations, and to inspect railroads and to require them
to keep their tracks and bridges in a safe condition, and
to fix and adjust rates between branch or short lines and
the great trunk lines with which they connect, and
to enforce the same by having the penalties hereby
prescribed inflicted through the proper courts having
jurisdiction.

.

.

By Act 132 of 1918 the General Assembly of Louisiana
directed "that the powers and duties of the Uailroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Commission of Louisiana are hereby added to and enlarged; and the power and authority is hereby vested in
the said Commission, and it is hereby made its duty to
require the owner, possessor or operator of any railway,
railroad, tram road, log road, transportation, irrigation
or drainage canal or syphon, crossing any public road
already constructed or which may hereafter be constructed, to construct and maintain a suitable and convenient crossing over such public road, the said crossing
to extend to the limits of the right of way, or fifty feet
from the center of such railway, railroad, tram road,
log road, transportation, irrigation or drainage canal or
syphon, in accordance with the standard specifications
furnished by the State Highway Department of the
Board of State Engineers in respect to such crossings."
The act further empowered the Railroad Commission to
require such crossings upon proper certificates of the
police juries in the respective parishes.
The broad language of Art. 284, Constitutions of 1898
and 1913, was not regarded as sufficient to empower the
Railroad Commission to require carriers to construct public crossings over their lines. To meet this situation and
provide relief in the parishes the Act of 1918 was passed;
and it was an order issued under this act which the
Supreme Court sustained in Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Louisiana Public Service Commission.
Art. XIV, ยง 22. Louisiana Constitution of 1921"The electors of the City of New Orleans and of any
political corporation which may be .established within
the territory now, or which may hereafter be embraced
within the corporate limits of said city, shall have the
right to choose their public officers. This section shall
not prohibit . . . nor shall it be construed as restricting the police power of the State, or as prohibiting the Legislature from appointing, or authorizing the
appointment of, any board or commission with full au-

RODMAN v. POTHIER.
393

Syllabus.

thority in the City of New Orleans other than that of
controlling the ordinary governmental functions of municipal government."
Unless and until otherwise advised by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, we must conclude that the general
control of its own streets is an ordinary governmental
function of the City of New Orleans.
It would require more definite language than we find
in the Constitution of 1921 or in Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. Louisiana Public Service Commission to convince us
that the Commission has power to assume control over
all those streets within New Orleans which approach or
cross railroad tracks, and to disregard the solemn contracts of the municipality with respect thereto. That the
liability which the Commission has undertaken to impose
upon appellee conflicts with the contract under which the
latter granted permission to construct the viaduct over
its property, is not denied. Only very clear and definite
words would suffice to show that the State had undertaken
to authorize a thing so manifestly unjust and oppressive.
Affirmed.
RODMAN, UNITED STATES MARSHAL, v.
POTHIER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 546.

Argued March 14, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

Where a person was held for removal under an indictment charging
murder on a military reservation under exclusive jurisdiction of
the 'United States, and the existence of such exclusive jurisdiction
involved consideration of many facts and seriously controverted
questions of law, held, that determination of that issue was for the
court where the indictment was found and was not open for decision in another district in habeas corpus. P. 402.
291 Fed. 311, reversed.

