OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

testator expressly assumed payment of the mortgage to
the plaintiff, the suit is maintainable in the District Court
on this agreement, by reason of diversity of citizenship,
without reference to the question whether the payee could
have proceeded on the original note. The assignee of a
chose in action, although prevented by the Code from
maintaining an action thereon in the District Court, may
nevertheless, if the requisite diversity of citizenship appears, proceed therein upon a new agreement subsequently made. American Colortype Co. v. Continental
Colortype Co., 188 U. S. 104, 106; Kolze v. Hoadley,
supra, p. 83. This rule, however, has no application here,
since the main object of the suit is the foreclosure of the
mortgage, to which the plaintiff must trace title through
the assignment, and the relief sought by a deficiency
judgment against the executor is merely ancillary and
incidental to the primary purpose of the bill. Blacklock
v. Small, 127 U. S. 96, 103; Kolze v. Hoadley, supra,p. 85.
The decree of the District Court is accordingly
Affirmed.
KELLER ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS HARTFORD
WINDSHIELD COMPANY, v. ADAMS-CAMPBELL
COMPANY, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 315. Argued February 27, 28, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
1. An ordinary patent case, with the usual issues of invention, breadth
of claims and infringement, will not be brought here by certiorari

unless it be necessary to reconcile decisions of the circuit courts of
appeals on the same patent. P. 319.
2. Certiorari granted under the impression that the case involved an
important general question under Rev. Stats., ยง 4916, as to rights
intervening between the issue and reissue of a patent, will be

KELLER v. ADAMS-CAMPBELL CO.
314

Opinion of the Court.

dismissed when it is found that the case was really disposed of by
the lower courts upon the ground of non-infringement. Id.
Writ of certiorari to review 287 Fed. 838, dismissed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a decree of the District Court disnmissing
a. bill to enjoin infringement of a patent.
Mr. Win. A. Loftus, with whom Mr. Chas. E. Townsend
and Mr. Jas. E. Kelby were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Ford W. Ham's, for respondents, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a suit to enjoin the infringement of a patent
for an improvement in auxiliary windshields for automobiles. It was brought on a reissued patent. The reissue
was granted on the ground that the original patent was
inoperative to protect the real invention due to defective
and insufficient and too narrow claims, all of which arose
through inadvertence and mistake due to misunderstanding between the inventor and his solicitor. The defect in
his claims was alleged to have been called to his attention
April 1, 1919, his application for reissue was filed May 22.
1919, six months and ten days after the granting of the
original patent, and the patent for reissue was granted
July 20, 1920.
A. F. Kipper, who was the active person among the defendants in designing and promoting the manufacture of
the windshield charged to be an infringement, was familiar with the device, the specifications and claims of
Keller. He conceived of his device in December of 1918,
made some models of it in February of 1919, and in association with one Dick Smith, got up some experimental
(lies and tools for its manufacture and sale in April and
May of that year. Kipper was an employee of Adams-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Campbell Company and that firm in August of 1919 made
- contract with Kipper to go into the business of making
and selling his product.
The suit for infringement was begun July 1, 1921. All
the usual defenses were set up, including lack of invention,
the invalidity of the reissue and non-infringement. There
was only one expert witness produced by the plaintiff as to
the originality and utility of the invention and the infringement by the respondent's device. His evidence was
presented in an affidavit but he was tendered for cross-examination which the defendants below declined to pursue.
No expert evidence was offered by defendants though they
introduced a number of patents to show the state of the
art.
The patent is for glass wings or auxiliaries secured in an
adjustable manner to the main windshield of an automobile. Their principal object is thoroughly to prevent the
creation of a draft through the vehicle body, and they
are so mounted that they will not obstruct vision and will
have a universality of movement on a double hinge such
that they can be changed from their normal position of
preventing a draft in cold or windy weather to a deflected
position permitting varying degrees of draft desirable in
hot weather. To avoid the necessity of a frame around
the glass, and to hold it safely and firmly and avoid danger
to occupants of the car from breakage and flying pieces of
glass, a hollow rod extends lengthwise along the shield,
and connects with, and spaces apart, clamp brackets along
each end of the shield. The rod is attached at its middle
to a double hinge joint giving the shield the universal
movement already referred to, and having means firmly
to lock it in any position. The real difference between the
device as shown in the patent and the alleged infringement is in the method by which the glass is clamped. In
the patent, the clamps operate on both sides of the ends
of the glass, engaging its opposite surfaces. In the de-

KELLER v. ADAMS-CAMPBELL CO.
314

Opinion of the Court.

fendant's device, these clamps are brought nearer to the
center of the shield member because they are held by
perforations in the glass and do not need to reach over to
the ends.
The District Court dismissed the bill and the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed this decree. We granted certiorari upon the allegation of the petition, not denied by
opposing counsel, that the sole question was whether one
who makes and sells articles not covered by the claims of
an original patent, but embraced by the enlarged claims of
a subsequent valid reissue, applied for within seven
months after the original was granted, has intervening
rights such that he is not only immune from liability for
what he has made and sold, but enjoys an irrevocable an, I
permanent license to continue to make and sell without
restriction.
The extent of the operation of the estoppel creating intervening rights in such a case presents a question not free
from difficulty. That a reissued patent enlarging claims
of the original, although not specifically mentioned iii
ยง 4916, Rev. Stats., is authorized by that soction, when
the failure to claim the larger claims justified by the actual
invention was due to inadvertence, accident or mistake, is
settled by the decision of this Court in Topliff v. ToplifJ,
145 U. S. 156, and other cases. That case also recognize,
that one who, pending the application and granting of the
reissue, manufactures and sells articles which infringe the
reissued patent may be protected on principles of estoppel
from the literal application of ยง 4916. Rev. Stats., which
makes the operation of the reissue relate to the date of
the original patent. In Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin, 245 U. S. 198, a change, in the reissue, of the language
of an original claim made it cover not only a bent pipe as
shown, but a straight pipe as well, where the substance of
the invention included both, and it was held that the intervening rights of irmnunity of the infringer did not ex-

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tend beyond the date of the reissue. It is insisted, however, that the Fitch Case was not one of an enlarged claim.
or at any rate that a reissue was unnecessary because the
original claim would have sufficed. The views of the Circuit Courts of Appeals on the general subject of the scope
of intervening rights are not entirely easy to reconcile.
Crown Cork & Seal Co. v. Aluminum Stopper Co., 108
Fed. 845; General Electric Co. v. Richmond Ry. Co., 178
Fed. 84; A. D. Howe Mach. Co. v. Coffield Motor Washer
Co., 197 Fed. 541; Autopiano Co. v. American Player
Action Co., 222 Fed. 276; American Automotoneer Co. v.
Porter,232 Fed. 456. The question, if it were really before us, would be one sufficiently important therefore to
justify our consideration of it on certiorari.
Both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals in their final disposition of the case gave color of
support to the claim of the petitioners that the question
of intervening rights was in this case.
The District Judge in dismissing the bill said:
"Without further discussion, I think the defendants
occupy the position of one who has intervening rights and
tinder those circumstances I think the plaintiffs are not
entitled to a reissue of the patent as against the defendants."
So the Circuit Court of Appeals, after reciting the
evidence showing that the defendants had made the
shields in question and built the machinery for future
manufacture before the patentee applied for reissue and
after being advised by counsel that they would not infringe the original patent, said:
"We, therefore, think it clear that the appellees had
and have such intervening rights as were properly protected by the court below."
Yet an analysis of the record and the reasons given
in the body of the opinions of the two courts leads to a
different conclusion. The District Court said of the alleged infringing device:

KELLER v. ADAMS-CAMPBELL CO.
314

Opinion of the Court.

"The defendants' bracket is an invention. It is a surprise to me thal that which the defendants did could
be done. The bracket will fit any glass. It is shorter
and does not obstruct the view. . . . The defendants'
bracket is not an equivalent of the bracket in plaintiffs'
original patent, because it does not perform the same
functions in the same way, but it performs the function
of holding the glass in an entirely different way."
So the Circuit Court of Appeals said:
"That there is nothing of a pioneer nature in Keller's
device is abundantly shown by the numerous exhibits
appearing in the record of windshields and deflectors, of
one kind or another, attached to automobiles long before Keller entered the field. Both his drawings and
specifications show that his shield is attached to the
machine by brackets that run up and down the glass.
holding it at the top and bottom, whereas the appellee's
device holds the glass by means of a fixture attached to
the face of the glass and which does not extend to either
of its ends.
"That for one device to be the equivalent of another
it is essential that the former must perform the same
function of the latter in substantially the same way is
thoroughly settled law."
These passages read in connection with the original
and reissued patents and the alleged infringement show
that what the courts really held was that the defendants
were manufacturing a different invention from that of
the plaintiffs, and so could not and did not infringe.
Such an ordinary patent case with the usual issues of
invention, breadth of claims and non-infringement, this
Court will not bring here by certiorari unless it be necessary to reconcile decisions of Circuit Courts of Appeal
on the same patent. We therefore find ourselves nistaken in assuming that an important issue of general
patent law under , 4916. Rev. Stats., is here involved.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

264 U. S.

The result is that an order must be entered dismissing
the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted at the
costs of the petitioner. Layne & Bowler Corporation v.
Western Well Works, Inc., 261 U. S. 387; Furness, Withy
& Co. v. Yang-Tsze InsuranceAssociation, 242 IT. S. 430;
United States v. Rimer, 220 U. S. 547.
Writ dismissed.
JOHN E. THROPP'S SONS COMPANY v.
SEIBERLING.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 185. Argued January 21, 22, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.
1. Patent No. 941,962, granted to one State, November 30, 1909,
claims 4-7, inclusive, 12, 13, and 2-26, inclusive, for the making of
the outer shoes or casings of pneumatic automobile tires composed
of woven fabric treated with rubber, is void for lack of invention,
viewed either as a mechanical or as a method patent. P. 327.
2. The fact that wide and successful use of a device has been made
under license from the patentee may be evidence of patentable
novelty, but is by no means conclusive and must be weighed in
the light of all the circumstances. P. 329.
284 Fed. 746, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
holding the respondent's patent valid and infringed by
the petitioner and reversing a decree of the District Court
which dismissed the respondent's bill to enjoin infringement.
Mr. Livingston Gifford, with whom Mr. E. Clarkson
Seward and Mr. Thomas G. Haight were on the briefs,
for petitioner.
Mr. Melville Church, with whom Mr. Luther E. Morrison was on the brief, for respondent.

