CHUNG FOOK v. WHITE.
Statement of the Case.

440

eral law applicable as fully to suits in the state courts as
to those prosecuted in the courts of the United States.'
As the writ of error from this Court was improvidently
allowed, the case must be transferred to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Section 238(a) of the
Judicial Code, Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat.
837.
Case Transferred.

CHUNG FOOK v. WHITE, AS COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION FOR THE PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 299.

Argued February 26, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

The proviso of ยง 22 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
under which the wife of a "naturalized" citizen, married to him
after his naturalization and sent for by him, may be admitted
without detention for treatment in hospital though found to be
affected with a contagious disorder, cannot be extended by judicial
construction to include the wife of a native born citizen. P. 445.
287 Fed. 533, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
denying a petition for a writ of habeas corpus.

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. G. W. Hott
was on the brief, for petitioner.
1Cases like McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543, and Wefern Union Telegraph Co. v. Andrezws, 216 U. S. 165, in which questions
of the immunity of state officers from suit are considered by thi
Court on direct appeal under ยง 238, come here by that method because of the constitutional question involved. Compare Illnois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28, 37, 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harvey. B. Cox,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Chung Fook is a native-born citizen of the United
States. Lee Shee, his wife, is an alien Chinese woman,
ineligible for naturalization. In 1922 she sought admission to the United States, but was refused and detained
at the immigration station, on the ground that she was
an alien, afflicted with a dangerous contagious disease.
No question is raised as to her alienage or the effect and
character of her disease; but the contention is that, nevertheless, she is entitled to admission under the proviso
found in ยง 22 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
c. 29, 39 Stat. 891. The section is copied in the margin.'
A petition for a writ of habeas corpus was denied by the
Federal District Court for the Northern District of California, and upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the judgment was affirmed. 287 Fed. 533.
The pertinent words of the proviso are: "That if the
person sending for wife or minor children is naturalized,
I " Sec. 22. That whenever an alien shall have been naturalized, or
shall have taken up his permanent residence in this country, and
thereafter shall send for his wife or minor children to join him, and
said wife or any of said minor children shall be found to be affected
with any contagious disorder, such wife or minor children shall be
held, under such regulations as the Secretary of Labor shall prescribe, until it shall be determined whether the disorder will be
easily curable or whether they can be permitted to land without
danger to other persons; and they shall not be either admitted or
deported until such facts have been ascertained; and if it shall be
determined that the disorder is easily curable and the husband or
father or other responsible person is willing to bear the expense of
the treatment, they may be accorded treatment in hospital until

CHUNG FOOK v. WHITE.
443

Opinion of the Court.

a wife to whom married or a minor child born subsequent
to such husband or father's naturalization shall be admitted without detention for treatment in hospital,
. ."
The measure of the exemption is plainly stated
and, in terms, extends to the wife of a naturalized citizen
only.
But it is argued that it cannot be supposed that Congress intended to accord to a naturalized citizen a right
and preference beyond that enjoyed by a native-born
citizen. The court below thought that the exemption
from detention was meant to relate only to a wife who by
marriage had acquired her husband's citizenship, and not
to one who, notwithstanding she was married to a citizen,
remained an alien under ยง 1994, Rev. Stats.: "Any woman
who is now or may hereafter be married to a citizen of the
United States, and who might herself be lawfully naturalized, shall be deemed a citizen." To the same effect, see
Ex parte Leong Shee, 275 Fed. 364. We are inclined to
agree with this view; but, in any event, the statute plainly
relates only to the wife or children of a naturalized citizen
and we cannot interpolate the words "native-born citizen" without usurping the legislative function. Corona
Coal Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 537; United States
v. FirstNational Bank, 234 U. S. 245, 259-260; St. Louis,
Iron, Mountain,& Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.
*

cured and then be admitted, or if it shall be determined that they
can be permitted to land without danger to other persons, they may,
if otherwise admissible, thereupon be admitted: Provided, That
if the person sending for wife or minor children is naturalized, a wife
to whom married or a minor child born subsequent to such husband
or father's naturalization shall be admitted without detention for
treatment in hospital, and with respect to a wife to whom married
or a minor child born prior to such husband or father's naturalization the provisions of this section shall be observed, even though
such person is unable to pay the expense of treatment, in which case
the expense shall be paid from the appropriation for the enforcement
of this Act."

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

281, 295; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 320, 327. The
words of the statute being clear, if it unjustly discriminates
against the native-born citizen, or is cruel and inhuman
in its results, as forcefully contended, the remedy lies
with Congress and not with the courts. Their duty is
simply to enforce the law as it is written, unless clearly
unconstitutional.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 240. Argued February 25, 1924.--Decided April 7, 1924.
I. The United States, as guardian of tribal Indians, is bound to

discharge its trust with good faith and fairness, and treaties made
with them should be liberally construed. P. 448.
2. The treaty made in 1855 with the Quileute and other Indians,
by which they surrendered broader claims for a limited reservation, provided for money "to clear, fence, and break up a sufficient
quantity of land for cultivation," and authorized the President to
assign "lands" in severalty to the Indians for permanent homes.
Held, that timbered lands were not intended to be excluded from
assignment. Id.
3. The General Indian Allotment Act should be construed when
possible in harmony with previous Indian treaties. Id.
4. The General Allotment Act in limiting allotments to "eighty acres
of agricultural or one hundred and sixty acres of grazing land to
any one Indian," was not meant to preclude an allotment of
timbered lands, capable of being cleared and cultivated, but simply
to differentiate, in the matter of area, between lands adaptable to
agricultural uses and lands valuable only for grazing purposes.

P. 449.
284 Fed. 827, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court for the
plaintiff and appellee, Payne, in his suit to determine his
right to an allotment of land in an Indian Reservation.

