OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

LAND & IMPROVEMENT
MANUFACTURERS'
STATES SHIPPING
UNITED
COMPANY v.
BOARD EMERGENCY FLEET CORPORATION
AND PUBLIC SERVICE RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD

CIRCUIT.
No. 181.

Argued January 21, 1924.-Decided March 3, 1924.

The Act of March 1, 1918, c. 19, 40 Stat. 438, empowering the United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation to requisition
land for the construction thereon of houses for employees, and the
families of employees, of shipyards in which ships were being constructed for the United States, and to construct on such land for
their use houses "and all other necessary or convenient facilities ",
etc., authorized the taking of land for an electric railway terminal,
for the purpose of providing convenient transportation for employees of a nearby shipyard, and their families, for whom housing
was being provided under the act on other land in close proximity.
P. 253.
284 Fed. 231, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

which affirmed a judgment of the District Court for the
defendants in error in an action in ejectment brought
against them by the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Francis D. Weaver, with whom Mr. John W.
Wescott and Mr. Samuel B. Scott were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered

the opinion of

the Court.
This was an action in ejectment by the land company
against the fleet corporation and the public service com-

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. FLEET CORP.
250

251

Opinion of the Court.

pany for a small tract of land in Camden, New Jersey.
The action was begun in a state court and removed to the
District Court of the United States, where, after trial,
judgment was given for the defendants. The judgment
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 284 Fed. 231.
The facts out of which the case arose are easily stated.
On and prior to May 28, 1918, the land in question was
owned and possessed by the land company, and was without buildings or other improvements. It was in close
proximity to shipyards where ships were being constructed
for the United States for service in the World War, and
was also in close proximity to other lands in which the
fleet corporation had acquired an interest and on which
it had caused, or was causing, many houses to be constructed for the use of the shipyard employees and their
families. On that day the fleet corporation, acting under
the Act of March 1, 1918, c. 19, 40 Stat. 438, requisitioned
the fee simple title of the land and took possession.
Afterwards, in conformity to the act, the fleet corporation determined the compensation to be made for the
land, the amount being $19,743.20. The land company
did not accept that sum or any part of it, but questioned
the authority of the fleet corporation to make the requisition and take possession.
After the land was requisitioned, the fleet corporation
constructed thereon a loop of electric railway tracks with
platforms and sheds, connected the same with an adjacent
electric railway line operated by the public service company, and contracted with that company to run its cars
over the newly made loop to and from the platforms and
sheds so constructed, all for the purpose of providing
necessary and convenient transportation facilities for
the employees of the shipyards and their families. The
land was suitable for that purpose and, when the improvements were completed, was used therefor under the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tract between the fleet corporation and the public service
company. No houses were constructed on the land by the
fleet corporation; nor was it used otherwise than in providing the transportation facilities just described.
The action in ejectment was brought on the assumption
that the land was unlawfully taken by the fleet corporation in that the declared purpose of the taking was to use
the land in housing the employees and their families,
when in truth the purpose was to use it for an electric railway terminal, or to enable the public service company so
to use it, and that the fleet corporation was without
authority to take it for such terminal use. Whether that
assumption was well or ill grounded is the question presented on this writ of error.
The material part of the Act of March 1, 1918, under
which the fleet corporation acted, reads as follows:
"That the United States Shipping Board Emergency
Fleet Corporation is hereby authorized and empowered
within the limits of the amounts herein authorized"(a) To purchase, lease, requisition, including the requisition of the temporary use of, or acquire by condemnation
or otherwise any improved or unimproved land or any
interest therein suitable for the construction thereon of
houses for the use of employees and the families of employees of shipyards in which ships are being constructed
for the United States.
"(b) To construct on such land for the use of such
employees and their families houses and all other necessary or convenient facilities, upon such conditions and at
such price as may be determined by it, and to sell, lease, or
exchange such houses, land, and facilities upon such terms
and conditions as it may determine.
"(c) To purchase, lease, requisition, including the requisition of the temporary use of. or acquire by condemnation
or otherwise any houses or other buildings for the use of
such employees and their families, together with the land

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. FLEET CORP.
250

253

Opinion of the Court.

on which the same are erected, or any interest therein, all
necessary and proper fixtures and furnishings therefor, and
all necessary and convenient facilities incidental thereto;
to manage, repair, sell, lease, or exchange such lands,
houses, buildings, fixtures, furnishings and facilities upon
such terms and conditions as it may determine to carry
out the purposes of this Act.
"(d) To make loans to persons, firms, or corporations
in such manner upon such terms and security, and for
such time not exceeding ten years, as it may determine
to provide houses and facilities for the employees and the
families of employees of such shipyards.
"Whenever said United States Shipping Board Eniergency Fleet Corporation shall acquire by requisition or
condemnation such property or any interest thereiiu, il
shall determine aiid make just compens,-ation therefor,
and if the amount thereof so determined is unsatisfactory
to the person entitled to receive the same, such person
shall be paid seventy-five per centum of the amount so
determined, and shall be entitled to sue the United States
to recover such further sum as added to such seventy-five
per centum will make such an amount as will be just
compensation for the property or interest therein so
taken."
The requisition, as set forth in the record, shows that
the land was desired and was taken "for the uses and
purposes" expressed in the act, and not, as asserted by
the land company, for the sole and declared purpose of
using it for housing the employees and their families.
So, if the act authorized a taking to provide necessary or
convenient facilities whereby these people readily could
reach and use local car lines, that purpose was comprehended in the terms of the requisition.
The land company apparently takes the position that
subdivision (a) of the act is alone to be considered. If
this position were right, there would be good ground for

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

thinking that the only purpose for which a taking was
authorized was to provide housing facilities. But subdivision (b) must also be considered. It and subdivision
(a) are so plainly interrelated that they must be read
together. When this is done, it is obvious that the purposes for which a taking was authorized were not confined
to providing housing facilities but extended to providing
"all other necessary or convenient facilities" for the use
of the employees and their families. Other parts of the
act, notably subdivisions (c) and (d), strengthen this
conclusion. Of course the act must be examined as a
whole, and not as if each part were an independent enactment. Its purpose was to facilitate the accomplishment
of large undertakings wherein it was necessary to employ
artisans and laborers in unusually large numbers, and to
utilize their services in the best possible way. It recognized not only that they and their families should be
housed. but that many other necessary or convenient
facilities should be provided for their use; and to these
ends it authorized an expenditure of fifty million dollars.
Whether artisans or laborers could be obtained and
retained in requisite numbers would measurably be
affected by the conditions surrounding them in the employnent, such as the facilities for going from their places
of living to their places of work, and the converse, and
the facilities for reaching markets, schools and churches
from their places of living.
Here what was done was to provide facilities whereby
an extensive electric railway service in the city of Camden
was brought, with a suitable terminal, into close proximity to the shipyards and to the lands where houses were
provided for the use of the employees and their families.
In our opinion these transportation facilities were of a
class which the fleet corporation was authorized to provide and for which it was empowered to requisition or
take needed land. They were a legitimate complement

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. FLEET CORP.
250

255

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

to the housing facilities provided by the corporation in
that vicinity,-at great cost according to the record. It
was not essential under the act that the other facilities
be on the same tract with the houses any more than that
all the houses be on a single tract. The act was intended
to be susceptible of practical application in varying situations.
We conclude that the action of ejectment was brought
on a mistaken assumption and was rightly determined
against the land company by the courts below. Questions which would arise if the assumption or any material
part of it were well grounded need not be considered.
Judgment affirmed.

dissenting.
I concur in the judgment of the Court. I dissent from
the grounds upon which the Court bases it. It is my
opinion that the record establishes that the requisition of
the land was made under the first paragraph (a) of the
Housing Act of March 1, 1918, the fee simple in the land
acquired and, necessarily, it became subject to all of the
uses accessorial to the fee, every use whatever; for the
use of trolley tracks to connect with a street railway as in
this case, or for the erection of a church for the spiritual
guidance of employees and their families, or for a dance
hall and an accompanying refectory for the amusement of
their leisure. Indeed, for any use under the sun.
Twenty days after the requisition, the President seeing
the situation and that the land was so subject, availed of
it-availed of the power given him under the Act of April
22, 1918, c. 62, 40 Stat. 535, to take over transportation
systems for the transportation of shipyard and plant employees, issuing his executive order of June 18, 1918, by
which he directed that the Fleet Corporation should" have
and exercise all power and authority vested" in him by
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

OCTOBER TER.% 1923.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

264 U. S.

the act. By this direction and delegation, the Fleet Corporation proceeded to construct the trolley tracks with the
assistance of the Public Service Railway Company, a defendant in the case. The land became a terminal for the
latter Company.
The act of the President was in the public service, but it
was not an act of requisition of the land, it was after the
requisition of the land,-not its requisition. If this were
not so there is color for the accusation of the Land & Improvement Company that the Housing Act was used as
a pretense-used under the pretense of acquiring land for
the building of houses when the purpose was, in effect, a
different one.
During the taking of the testimony, counsel for the
Fleet Corporation several times declared that the requisition was under the Housing Act and that whatever use
the land was subsequently put to was immaterial.
I quote from the record as follows:
"Now then, the power under which we took this land
was a power delegated under 40 Statutes 438, directly delegated to the Fleet Corporation so that we could not in this
requisition say that the Fleet Corporation took this land
by virtue of the Act of March 1, 1918, and by virtue of
the Act of April 22, 1918, because the power was not given
to us under both of those Acts, it was only [given] under
one of them.
"The Court: You claim you were the deputy of the
President ?
"Mr. Pearse: Later.
"Mr. Jacobsen: After the taking of the land we claim
we were. At the time we took the land we had the right
to take it by virtue of statute, and after we had it we used
it by virtue of power delegated to us by the President.
IItalics mine.] Those are the actual facts; in other
words, we took this land under a direct power delegated
to us."

MANUFACTURERS' CO. v. FLEET CORP.

257

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

250

It will be observed that Mr. Pearse, of counsel for the
Fleet Corporation, in response to the Court's inquiry as to
when the Fleet Corporation became the deputy of the
President, answered, "Later." It will also be observed
that Mr. Jacobsen, of counsel for the Fleet Corporation,
continuing his comment said that, " after the taking of the
land we [the Fleet Corporation] claim we were."
"Later", and "after the taking of the land ", meaing
after the executive order. Until it there is nothing in the
record to show that there was prophecy or thought of
trolley tracks or transportation systems.
The opinion of the Court now delivered is, in my view,
in opposition to this. There is an attempt at consistency
with it by the declaration that the requisition was under
the act and for the uses and purposes expressed in the act
and that the uses and purposes were facilities for neighboring shipyards. In determining the correctness of this con clusion all paragraphs of the act must, of course, be considered, but not one of them has provision for any houshig
of employees except what houses may be erected on th,
land and for the employees who should occupy them.
As I have said, the President's order was moved by consideration of the public service. The difference between
the Court and me is how the service was accomplishedwas it by requisition of the land or the use of the land
after requisition?
I think the latter-the Court declares the former. In
other words, it was a part of the requisition. Of course,
the occupation of the land after the construction of the
trolley tracks was as useful, whether the right was acquired and exercised one way as the other-the trolley
would be a facility as much in one case as in the other;
and to ascribe it to one and not to the other is to give
that one a gloss and show that it is denied to the other-a
fictitious importance.
I repeat, the difference between the Court and me is one
of means-not of effect, and my view is that of the Circuit
9751 -- 24-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

Court of Appeals; it is that of the Land & Improvement
Company; it is, in essential foundation, that of the Government. These circumstances cannot, of course, obstruct
the declaration of superior authority, as this Court is,
although the grounds of the exertion of the authority may
surprise.
THE CHICAGO JITNCTION CASE.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 489.

Argued January 24, 1924.--Decided March 3, 1924.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission permitting one
carrier to acquire control of another, made under par. 2 of ยง 5 of
the amended Act to Regulate Commerce, which allows this whenever the Commission is of opinion, after hearing, that the acquisition will be in the public interest, is subject to judicial review.
P. 263.
2. Such an order is void if the finding that the acquisition will be in
the public interest is made ithout supporting evidence. P. 265.
3. Facts conceivably known to the Commission but not put in
evidence will not support an order. P. 263.
4. In a bill to set aside such an order, an allegation that such finding
was wholly unsupported by evidence charges a fact which must
be taken as admitted on appeal from a decree dismissing the bill on
motion equivalent to a demurrer. P. 262.
5. Carriers which suffer serious disadvantage, prejudice and loss of
traffic from the transfer of neutral terminal railroads to the control
of a competitor, and which intervened unsuccessfully before the
Commission in opposition to such transfer, have a standing to
attack the order permitting it, upon the ground that there was no
evidence to support the finding of public interest on which the order
was based. P. 266.
6. Section 212, Jud. Code, which declares that any party to a proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission may, as of
' The docket title of this case is: Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company et al. v. United States, Interstate Commerce Commission, New
York Central Railroad Company, et al.

