OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

90

264 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Our conclusion is that the appellants' reliance on the
two statutes is not well grounded. They are all that are
claimed to make the company's charter other than one of
the usual permissive type. It follows that the District
Court rightly held the company was entitled to withdraw
the road from intrastate commerce and to dismantle and
abandon it.
Decrees affirmed.
THE "GUL DJEMAL."

1

APPEAL FROM. THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 83.

Argued January 4, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.

The objection that a vessel, owned, possessed, manned, and operated
by a foreign State, but engaged in ordinary commerce under charter
to a private trader, is immune to libel in the District Court for
ervices and supplies, can not be raised by her master, who, although a naval officer, is not functioning as such, and is not shown
to have authority to represent his sovereign in making the objection.
P. 94.
296 Fed. 567, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court sustaining a
libel against a ship, for services and supplies.
Mr. William A. Purringtonand Mr. John M. Woolsey,
with whom Mr. Frank J. McConnell was on the brief, for
appellant.

Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Mr. Ezra G. Benedict Fox was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Seeking to recover for supplies and services furnished
at New York during November, 1920, in order to fit her
'The (locket title of this case is: Steamship "Gul Djemal," her
engines, etc.; Hussein Lutfi Bey, Master, v. Campbell & Stuart, Inc.

THE "GUL DJEMAL."
90

91

Opinion of the Court.

for an intended voyage across the Atlantic, appellee
libeled the steamship Gul Djemal and caused her arrest
under the ordinary admiralty practice. Her master, appearing for the sole purpose of objecting to the court's
jurisdiction, claimed immunity for the vessel because
owned and possessed by the Turkish Government, and
asked that she be released. No one except the master has
advanced this claim.
The parties stipulated: 1 The Turkish Government and
the United States are at peace with each other, but diplomatic relations have been severed. The Gd Djcmal is
the absolute property of the Turkish Government and
under the administration of the Transport Section of the
Ministry of Marine. That govermnent employed and
1" First: That at all the times mentioned in the libel herein, and
at the time of the arrest of the Gul Djeiiwl, the Gel Djewal wa.
owned by the Turkish or Ottoman Government, that it flies the
Turkish flag; that Turkey has but one flag, for both national and
commercial uses; that it is registered in the name of Seire-Seffain
Administration; that the Gul Djewal is the absolute property of tho
Otton:an Seire-Seffain Administration, the third division of the
Ministry of Iarine of the Turkish Government, which is attacui
to the Ministry of War; that the maritime title has been given to
the Administration Seire-Seffain by the Ministry of War. Said SeireSeffain Administration, at the times above mentioned, was (and is)
the Transport Section of the Mlinistry of Marine, and was (and is)
charged with the control of transport vessels of the Turkish Goveriment, and said vessels, (of which the Gal Djemal was one) which
are capable of commercial uses, are, when not used as transports,
used in commerce; whether such vessels are used is transports or in
commerce is subject to the direction of the Ministry of Marine, which,
through departments other than the Seire-Sefi'ain, has charge of battleships, artillery, torpedoes, wireless, and engineering work pertaining
to all the vessels of the Turkish Navy; that the Gid Djema wasl,
transferred for operation to the Administration Seire-Seffain from the
Ministry of War in 1914 and has since been under the contrail of
Administration of Seire-Seffain.
"Said Seire-Seffain Administration, at the times above mentionel,
had (and has), as its head, a military officer of the Turkish Govern-

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

paid the master, officers and crew-the master being a
reserve naval officer-and was in possession of the ship
when arrested. She "was engaged in commercial trade,
under charter for one round voyage to George Dedeoglou,
who engaged to carry passengers and goods for hire, and
in such trade the Gul Djemal was not functioning in a
naval or military capacity, nor was there anything of a
naval or military character connected with the voyage of
the Gul Djemal from Constantinople to New York and
return."
The court below denied the alleged immunity and
passed a decree for the libellant. Upon this direct appeal
only the question of jurisdiction is presented. The relevant certificate follows:
"The sole question raised by the answer of the claimant
herein, and the sole issue before this court, was the jurisment, in the active or reserve service of the Turkish Government, and
said head must be, at all times, a military officer in the employ of the
Turkish Government, the Seire-Seffain Administration being charged
with the transport of troops, and at all the times above mentioned,
said head of the Seire-Seffain Administration was a Colonel; although
said head of the Seire-Seffain Administration, at the times above
mentioned, was, in respect of the Gul Djemal, not functioning in a
military or naval capacity.
"Second: That at all the times mentioned in the libel herein, and
at the time of the arrest of the Gul Djenal, the Gul Djernal was in
the possession of the Turkish Government, being manned by a master,
officers and crew employed by or under the direction of said SeireSeffain Administration, and paid by the Treasury Department of the
Turkish Government through the Administration Seire-Seffain; said
master, at the times above mentioned, was (and is) a reserve officer
in the Turkish Navy employed by the branch of the Ministry of
Marine known as the Administration Seire-Seffain, and the navigating
officer was a Lieutenant in the active service of the Turkish Navy,
both detailed by the said Ministry of Marine to serve on the Gui
Djenzal during the times above mentioned, but in such service they
were not performing any naval or military functions, although they
were subject to any orders from the department of the Turkish
Government charged with naval or military affairs; the other officers

THE "GUL DJEMAL."
90

Opinion of the Court.

diction of the court over the steamship Gul Djema!, a,
vessel owned, manned, operated by and in the possession
of the sovereign government of Turkey, at peace with the
Government of the United States of America. The allegations of the libellant that it had furnished supplies to
the vessel, were admitted by the claimant, whose answer
set up that the vessel was immune, as a sovereign owned
vessel, from the process of this court, and that the vessel
was not within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
of this court. I have granted a decree for the amount
prayed for by the libellant, and have denied immunity to
the vessel because at the time the cause of action and
and entire crew of the Gul Djena, during the times above mentioned,
were civilians, paid by the Turkish Government.
"Third: That at all the times mentioned in the libel herein, and
at the time of the arrest of the Gul Djenwk, the Gui Djemnal was
engaged in commercial trade, under charter for one round voyage to
George Dedeoglou, who engaged to carry passengers and goods for
hire, and in such trade the Gui Djenza was not functioning in a naval
or military capacity, nor was there anything of a naval or military
character connected with the voyage of the Gul Djeinal from Constantinople to New York and return.
"Fourth: That the Turkish Government, prior to the time mentioned in the libel herein, had severed diplomatic relations with the
United States of America, advising its peoples by proclamation, however, that American institutions should not be molested but should be
treated as heretofore; that said diplomatic relations have not been
resumed; although the United States of America maintains unofficial
relations with the Turkish Government by American Consular representatives, and through the medium of a High Commissioner; that
during said period of the severed relations, the Spanish Ambassador
to the United States has represented, and still represents, Turkish
interests in the United States, and has been recognized as such representative by the Department of State of the United States of America.
"Fifth: That the Turkish or Ottoman Government, ,nd the Government of the United States of America, are sovereign government-,
and were at all the times mentioned herein, at peace with each other,
although the Turkish or Ottoman Government was and is an ally of
the enemy of the United States in the World War."

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

.264 U. S.

liability on which the libel is founded were created, and
at the time the vessel was seized under process of this
court, she was, although owned, manned by and in the
possession of the sovereign government of Turkey, engaged in commercial trade, under charter for hire to a
private trader; and furthermore, because diplomatic relations between the United States and Turkey were then
severed and no appropriate suggestion was filed from the
State Department of the United States."
Appellee maintains that whatever may be the proper
rule in our courts concerning the ultimate immunity of
vessels owned by foreign governments and employed in
ordinary trade and commerce, such immunity will not be
granted upon the mere claim of the master, especially
when the United States has no diplomatic relations with
the sovereign owner. Such claim can be made only by
one duly authorized to vindicate the owner's sovereignty.
Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S.522, 532, 533, is relied upon to
support this view. It is there said"As of right the British Government was entitled to appear in the suit, to propound its claim to the vessel and to
raise the jurisdictional question. . . . Or, with its sanction, its accredited and recognized representative might
have appeared and have taken the same steps in its interest. . . . And, if there was objection to appearing
as a suitor in a foreign court, it was open to that government to make the asserted public status and immunity of
the vessel the subject of diplomatic representations to the
end that, if that claim was recognized by the Executive
Department of this government, it might be set forth and
supported in an appropriate suggestion to the court by
the Attorney General, or some law officer acting under his
direction."
Treating Ex parte Muir as relevant, appellant insists
that within the meaning of the declaration there made the
master of the Gul Djemal, a duly commissioned officer of

MYERS v. UNITED STATES.
90

Syllabus.

the Turkish Navy, was the accredited and recognized
representative of that government, possessed of adequate
authority to protest against the seizure and object to the
court's jurisdiction.
We agree with the view advanced by the appellee. The
Anne, 3 Wheat. 435, reaffirmed by The Sao Viceite, 260
U. S. 151, is enough to show that the immunity could not
have been successfully set up by a duly recognized consul,
representative of his sovereign in commercial matters, in
the ordinary course of his official duties, and there seems
no adequate reason to presume that the master of the Gal
Djemal had any greater authority in respect thereto.
Although an officer of the Turkish Navy, he was performing no naval or military duty, and was serving upon a
vessel not functioning in naval or military capacity but
engaged in commerce under charter to a private individual
who undertook to carry passengers and goods for hire.
He was not shown to have any authority to represent his
sovereign other than can be inferred from his position as
master and the circumstances specified in the stipulation
of facts.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

concurs in the result.

MYERS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 15S.

Submitted January 11, 1924.-Decided February 1S, 1924.

1. The power to punish contempt to enforce obedience inheres in all
courts, as essential to the performance of their functions. P. 1013.
2. Contempt proceedings are sui geiris,--neither civil actions nor
criminal prosecutions, as ordinarily understood, nor criminal Joro-e+cutions within the Sixth Amendment. Id.
3. The contempts defined by ยง 21 of the Clayton Act (October V5,
1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730.)-disohedience of a lawfifl writ, etc., by

