PERKINS-CAMPBELL CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

THE PERKINS-CAMPBELL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM% THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 183.

Argued January 21, 1924-Decided February 1S, 1I24.

1. Where an award, made under the Dent Act for expenses incurred
under a war contract, was accepted, with payment, by the claimant, in full discharge of the obligations of the United State" under
the contract, reformation of the award is a prerequisite to recovery
of additional compensation in the Court of Claims. P. 218.
2. It is not a ground for reforming such an award that the claimant,
before accepting it, was advised by army officers believed t,, l1v
acting under directions of the board that examined the case, that
acceptance would not waive further claim under the contract. Id
3. Allegations of a petition held insufficient as a ba~is for reforming
an award on the ground of mutual mistake by the clainit anid
the United States. Id.
57 Ct. Clms. 623, .affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims lismissing a petition on demurrer.
APPEAL

Millr. Henry T. Hunt and Mr. Arlen G. ,?_igcr, for appellant, submitted.
Mr. Geo. Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the Attoriney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Bced was oil
the brief, for the United States.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

The Perkins-Campbell Co. filed its petition asking the
reformation of an award made it under the provisions of
the Dent Act of compensation for expenses incurred in
the partial performance of a war contract for the manufacture of ambulance harness; and the allowance of addi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

tional compensation. This petition was dismissed on
demurrer, without an opinion. 57 Ct. Clms. 623.
The material facts set forth in the petition and appearing from the exhibits are: On August 10, 1917, the Company entered into a contract with the War Department,
designated as No. 2788, for the manufacture of 35,000 sets
of ambulance harness. This contract was not executed
in the manner prescribed by law. After the Company
had delivered 3,000 sets of harness and incurred expenses
for the manufacture of the full number, negotiations were
had for a reduction of the contract to 20,000 sets. This
resulted in a written offer by the Company to "allow
15,000 sets of this harness without expense to the Government with the understanding that we are to be allotted
10,000 dump cart harness ", at a specified higher price.
On October 22, 1918, the Quartermaster General's Office
wrote the Company that 15,000 sets of ambulance harness
had been cancelled from its contract, and -that in lieu of
this cancellation an award had been made it for 10,000
sets of cart harness at the higher price, "on contract
L-357-J," which was being prepared and would shortly
be forwarded for signature. The next day the Quartermaster General's Office telegraphed: "Telegram referring
to 10,000 dump cart harness received. Cancellation and
award of 10,000 sets approved. Contract now before
Review Board but has not been approved by them. Use
your own judgment in cutting harness. Will notify you
when contract is approved." The Company, expecting
that the duly executed contract would follow shortly, but
without intending, the petition avers, to surrender otherwise its right to deliver the 35,000 sets of ambulance
harness, suspended the production of more than 20,000
sets of ambulance harness and proceeded to prepare for
the manufacture of the cart harness "in so far as it might
do so without risk of serious loss if the contract were not
executed." In so doing it incurred expenses of more than

PERKINS-CAMPBELL CO. v. U. S.
213

Opinion of the Court.

$70,000. Shortly after the Armistice, and before the new
contract had been executed, the Company. at the request
of the Quartermaster General's Office. suspended the further manufacture of both the ambulance and the cart
harness.
After the passage of the Dent Act, 40 Stat. 1272,
c. 94,-which authorized the Secretary of War to adjust
claims for expenses incurred in connection with the prosecution of the war under "an agreement, express or implied ", entered into in good faith but not executed as
prescribed by law-the Company presented to the War
Department Claims Board, the designated agent of the
Secretary, two claims for compensation: one for all expenses incurred in the performance of contract 2788 for
35,000 sets of ambulance harness; and the other for
expenses incurred under the "proposed contract L-357-J"
for cart harness. Each was in the form prescribed for
claims based on "agreements" reduced to contract form
or otherwise established by written evidence.'
The Claims Board, in accordance with its rules of procedure,' made a certificate setting forth that an agreement had been entered into as shown by contract 2788,
and, after this had been approved by the Company, forwarded the claim under this contract to a Zone Board for
detailed examination. A certificate as to the agreement
entered into under "Contract L-357-J", was made a
week later.
The Zone Board, deciding that the Company had surrendered its right to deliver 15,000 sets of the ambulance
'The petition does not set forth either of these claims, or show ihe
steps taken in the prosecution of the claim as to the cart harneprior to the final award.
'Supply Circular No. 17, 1 Dec. War Dept., Bd. of Cont. Adjust.,

xlviii.
'This appears from the recitals in the final awards made under ti
two claims.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

harness, rejected the claim on the basis of 35,000 sets, and
"instructed " the Company to submit it on the basis of
20.000 sets only. The Company, in obedience to these
"instructions ",revised its claim so as to exclude all expenses incurred as to more than 20,000 sets. And, the petition avers, a captain and a lieutenant attached to the
Zone Board, "believed" by the Company to be acting
under its direction, " instructed" the Company that it
might accept an award based on its expenses for 20,000
sets without waiving its claim for those incurred for the
additional 15,000 sets. The Zone Board, upon proof submitted as to 20,000 sets only, found the amount of compensation to which the Company was entitled and recommended payment. Pursuant to such recommendation,
the Claims Board, in December, 1919, made an award to
the Company under "Contract 2788." This award, after
reciting that an agreement had been entered into on
August 10, 1917, as set out in the certificate of the Board,
awarded the Company, in addition to the payments for
the ambulance harness that had been delivered, 4 and as
remuneration for the expenses incurred in preparing to
perform said agreement, the further sum of $80,385.15 "in
full adjustment, payment, and discharge of said agreement." This award was accepted by the Company by
written endorsement; and was duly paid. The petition
avers, however, that although this award purported to be
a settlement of all obligations of the Government under
contract 2788, it "was not the intention of the claimant
nor of the officers with whom the settlement covered by
the award was negotiated to settle thereunder any claim
of the claimhnt beyond 20,000 sets."
On the same day the Claims Board made the Company
an award under "Contract L-357-J." This award after
reciting that an agreement had been entered into on or
1$416,781.1,, the value of 14,142 sets that had been delivered.

PERKINS-CAMPBELL CO. v. U. S.
213

Opinion of the Court.

about October 22, 1918, the terms of which had been set
out in a certificate of the Board, awarded the Company as
remuneration for the expenses incurred in preparing to
perform "said agreement," the sum of S71,705.76, in full
adjustment and discharge of "said agreement." This
award was also accepted by the Company by written
endorsement; and was duly paid.
Meanwhile the Company had filed, in June, 1919, pursuant, as the petition avers, to" instructions" of the Zone
Board, a claim with the Board of Contract Adjustment for
the expenses incurred in the performance of the ambulance
harness contract not included in the 20,000 sets. li
Mlarch, 1920, the Board of Contract Adjustment decided
that the United States, having paid the awards as to
20,000 sets of ambulance harness and the 10,000 sets of
cart harness, was under no obligation to reimburse the
Company for expenses as to the 15,000 sets of ambulance
harness "which were eliminated" from the original contract. 4 Dec. War Dept., Bd. Cont. Adjust. 529, 531.
This decision was affirmed by the Secretary of War, who
found that the original order for 15,000 sets of ambulance
harness "was cancelled with the consent of claimant
without cost to the Government."
The petition prays that the court adjudge that tih,
award made and accepted under contract 27S8 did not ex,press the intention of the parties and reform it so as t,,
express their intention that it should constitute a settlement of that part only of the contract covering 20.000 sets
of ambulance harness; and that the Company be awarded
the further sun of 821,868.89 for expenses incurred in preparing to manufacture the 15,000 additional sets covered
by the contract.
The demurrer to the petition is based upon the ground,
among others, that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the United States or entitle the Company to the relief prayed for.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Aside from any other question, it is clear that, under the
averments of the petition, the Company is not entitled to
the reformation of the award accepted by it in full discharge of the obligations of the United States under the
original contract for the ambulance harness. The reforma.tion of this award is clearly a prerequisite to any recovery for expenses incurred in reference to the 15,000
sets. The petition, however, shows no facts sufficient to
require such a reformation.
The fact that the Company had been advised by a captain and a lieutenant "believed" to be acting under the
directions of the Zone Board, that it might accept an
award on the basis of 20,000 sets without waiving its claim
as to the 15,000 additional sets, is, obviously, not a sufficient ground for reformation of the award which it subsequently accepted, deliberately. in "full discharge" of the
contract. And the general allegation that neither the
Company nor the officers with whom the settlement was
negotiated intended to settle under the award any claim
beyond 20,000 sets, is a mere conclusion of the pleader, at
least in so far as the intention of the Government is concerned. The petition does not designate the officers referred to or show their authority to bind the United States
in any respect whatever. And it does not aver that the
award was in fact the result of any negotiation for settlement. On the contrary the award appears to have been an
adjudication made by the Claims Board upon the facts,
when it had before it the claim under the agreement as to
the cart harness as well as that under the original contract
for the ambulance harness. There is no averment that the
Claims Board in making the award intended it as only a
partial settlement of the claims under the contract for
the ambulance harness, or that it was paid by the authorized agents of the United States with any such understanding.
Manifestly the averments of fact contained in the petition show no " mutual mistake of the parties which upon

WASHINGTON v. DAWSON & CO.
213

Syllabus.

well-established principles of equity jurisprudence requires the reformation of the contract, and certainly no
such special circumstances . . . of fraud, duress, or oppression, as would necessarily require relief against a mistake of law." Cramp v. United States, 239 U. S. 221, 233.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is accordingly
Affirmed.
STATE OF WASHINGTON v. W. C. DAWSON &
COMPANY.
ERROR TO SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.

INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA ET AL. v. JAMES ROLPH
'COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 366 and 684.

Argued January 8, 9, 1924.-Decided February
25, 1924.

1. The Act of Congress of June 10, 1922, c. 216, 42 Stat. 634, which,
by amendment of Judicial Code, §§ 24, 256, undertakes to permit
application of the workmen's compensation laws of the several
States to injuries within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
excepting the masters and crews of vessels, is unconstitutional, for
the reasons explained in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 IT. S.
205. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, and other
cases reviewed. P. 222.
2. So held, (a) in a case in which it was sought to compel an employer
of stevedores to contribute to an accident fund, as provided by the
Workmen's Compensation Act of Washington; (b) in a case involving the power of a commission of California to award compensation for the death of a workman killed while engaged at
maritime work, under maritine contract, upon a vessel moored at
dock and discharging her cargo. Id.
3. The proviso in the above act of Congress "that the jurisdiction of
the district courts shall not extend to cause arising out of injuries

