OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171, 176; Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 555. If the decision of
that court shall deny to Georgia any rights secured to it
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, the
case may be brought here for reexamination and review.
That suits in equity will not be sustained in any case
where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had
at law is declared by statute (Judicial Code, § 267) and
established by decisions of this Court so numerous*that
citation is not necessary.
Bill dismissed without prejudice.

McCURDY, COUNTY TREASURER, OSAGE COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 135.

Argued January 4, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. Lands in Oklahoma allotted in severalty to the Osage Indians were
not taxable by the State while the title was held in trust by the
United States. P. 486.
2. Under the Osage Allotment Act of June 28, 1906, title to surplus
allotments did not pass from the United States until execution and
delivery of deeds of the Principal Chief approved by the Secretary
of the Interior (§ 8). Id.
3. The above act makes homestead allotments nontaxable, and surplus
allotments nontaxable within three years from the approval of the
act, "except where certificates of competency are issued or in case
of the death of the allottee ", the distinction between homestead
and surplus depending on designation by the allottee evidenced in
the allotment certificates and deeds. Held, that tracts allotted and
deeded as surplus were not made taxable within the three year
period, by the death of the allottees, where this occurred before
the allotments had been completed and approved. P. 487.
4. The title acquired by an Osage Indian through the execution and
delivery of the deed prescribed by this act cannot be related back
to the time of the completion of allotments for the purpose of

McCURDY v. UNITED STATES.
484

Opinion of the Court.

validating taxes sought to be imposed while the land was held in
trust by the United States. P. 4S7.
280 Fed. 103, affirmed.

ApPPAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing a
suit brought by the United States to enjoin collection of
taxes, cancel tax sale certificates and recover taxes paid,
on lands allotted to members of the Osage Tribe of
Indians.
Mr. Elmer E. Grinstead, for appellants, submitted.
Mr. Charles L. Rofi, Jr., and Mr. Eugene F. Scott were
also on the brief.
Mr. S. W. Williams, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE BuTi R delivered the opinion of the Court.
The United States, as guardian and trustee for the
Osage Indians, brought this suit against the county
treasurer and taxing officers of Osage County, Oklahoma,
and others, to restrain collection of unpaid taxes, to cancel
certain tax sale certificates, and to recover sums paid as
taxes on land in that county, which had been allotted to
members of the Osage Tribe. The District Court dismissed the cause. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the decree and remanded the cause with instructions to
grant the relief prayed.
The question is whether the allotted lands were subject
to taxation for 1909. Under the state laws, land was
taxable as of March 1 of that year. In 1883, these lands
were purchased from the Cherokee Nation by the United
States for the benefit of the Osage and Kansas Indians.
Chapter 3572, 34 Stat. 539, approved June 28, 1906,
known as the Osage Allotment Act, provided for the division of lands belonging to the Osage Tribe among its

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

members. (§ 2.) Each member was entitled to make
three selections and was permitted to designate one as a
homestead, which was required to be so designated in his
certificate and deed, and it was provided that the homestead would be inalienable and nontaxable until otherwise
provided by act of Congress. The other land allotted to
each member was known as surplus land. (Subd. 4, § 2.)
The Secretary of the Interior in his discretion and upon
the petition of any adult member of the tribe, was empowered to issue to such member a certificate of competency authorizing him to sell and convey any of the
lands "deeded him by reason of this Act." It was provided that "the surplus lands shall be nontaxable for the
period of three years from the approval of this Act, except
where certificates of competency are issued or in case of
the death of the allottee, unless otherwise provided by
Congress." (Subd. 7, § 2.) Further, that the lands of
any deceased member should descend to his or her legal
heirs according to the laws of Oklahoma,-except in
certain cases not here material (§ 6), and that "All
deeds . . . shall be executed by the principal chief
for the Osages, but no such deeds shall be valid until
approved by the Secretary of the Interior." (§ 8.)
The allotments were completed and approved by the
Secretary November 19, 1908. All allottees had died
prior to that date. All of the lands taxed were allotted
as surplus lands. Deeds were not signed by the principal
chief until May and June, 1909; and they were not approved by the Secretary until July 30 of that year. None
of the allottees received a certificate of competency.
Title was in the United States on the date as of which
the assessment was made, and did not pass until the execution and delivery of the deeds. (§ 8.) The lands were
not taxable while held in trust by the United States.
United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432. See also The
Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737; Oklahoma Enabling Act, 34

McCURDY v. UNITED STATES.
484

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 267, § 1, c. 3335, approved June 16, 1906; Oklahoma
Constitution, Art. 1, § 3; Art 10, § 6.
The death of the allottees before completion of the
allotment did not make the lands taxable as of March 1,
1909. The allotment was made about two and a half
years after the approval of the act and after the death of
all of the allottees. The three-year provision applies to
surplus and not to homestead lands. This classification
depends on selection and designation by the allottee, to
be evidenced in the certificates of allotment and the deeds.
It was impossible to ascertain as of March 1, 1909, what
lands were surplus.
Appellants suggest that the title which passed at the
time of the execution and delivery of the deed should be
held to relate back and take effect at the time of the completion of the allotments. The doctrine of relation gives
effect to an act done at one time as if it had been done at
another. It is a legal fiction adopted by courts solely for
purposes of justice,-to avoid denial or loss of right; but
not to impose burdens. Its application depends on some
antecedent right. Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 100;
Lykins v. McGrath, 184 U. S. 169; United States v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 142 Fed. 176, 187; Powers v.
Hurmert, 51 Mo. 136. There is nothing in the Osage
Enrollment Act, or in the situation, requiring application
of the doctrine of relation against the Indians. The provision empowering the Secretary of the Interior to issue
certificates authorizing members found to be competent
and capable to sell and convey the "lands deeded" makes
ownership and right to sell depend on the deeds. If, on
execution and delivery of deeds, title shall be deemed to
have passed prior to March 1, 1909, while in fact the land
was held in trust by the United States, the lands will be
burdened with taxes, which otherwise they would not be
subject to. We hold that the doctrine of relation should
not be applied.
Affirmed.

