WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v. CZIZEK.
274

Syllabus.

the merits of the controversy which should have been
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit instead of to this Court, it must, pursuant to the
statute, be transferred to that court.
It is so ordered.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
CZIZEK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 300. Argued February 26, 27, 1924.-Decided March 10, 1924.
1. A contract between a telegraph company and the sender of an
unrepeated interstate message, on a form filed with and approved
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, valued the message at
50.00 in default of any higher valuation specified by the sender
and paid for at a higher rate, and relieved the company of liability
beyond that sum for mistakes or delays in the transmision or
delivery, or for the non-delivery of the message, caused by the
negligence of its servants or otherwise. Held valid and applicable
although the message was never transmitted, due to the inadvertence of a receiving clerk in filing it in the wrong place, and to
subsequent mistaken assurances that it had been sent. P. 284.
2. Quaere: Whether this agreed limitation of liability would not have
applied even if the failure to transmit had been attributable to
gross negligence? P. 285.
3. The reasonableness of such a limitation is determined as of the
date of the contract and not by later, prospective rules of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Id.
4. Semble, that another printed stipulation on the telegram limiting
the company's liability for nondelivery, etc., of any iinrepeated
message to the amount received for sending it, was invalid in this
case. Id.
5. A stipulation on a telegram exempting the company from liability
if claim is not presented in writing within sixty days after filing
of the message for transmission, held inapplicable where the filing
of the message, by the plaintiff's agent, was unknown to the plaintiff
during the sixty days, and where the plaintiff thereafter iwas
diligent in presenting his claim. P. 286.
286 Fed. 478, reversed,

282,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the District Court for the
plaintiff Czizek in an action against the Telegraph Company for damages resulting from the failure to forward and
deliver a telegram.
Mr. Francis R. Stark and Mr. Beverly L. Hodghead,
with whom Mr. J. H. Richards, Mr. Oliver 0. Haga, Mr.
Joseph L. Egan and Mr. J. Julien Southerland were on
the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Johnson, with whom
Nixon was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

fr. Carey H.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a suit against the Telegraph Company for failure
to forward and deliver to the plaintiff a message from one
Jones, found by the Court below to have been acting as
agent for the plaintiff in the matter. The District Court
found for the defendant, but the judgment was reversed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 272 Fed. 223, and at a
second trial, in deference to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
a judgment was entered for the plaintiff, which was affirmed. 286 Fed. 478. Certiorari granted. 262 U. S.
739.
The plaintiff owned fifty shares of stock in the Idaho
National Bank at Boise, Idaho. Miller, vice president of
the bank, was buying the stock with a view to a merger.
He talked with the plaintiff and told him that he would
buy his stock and that they would have no difficulty in
agreeing on the price. The plaintiff told this to Jones, an
attorney at Boise, who owned fifteen shares, asked Jones
to act for him, saying that they would sell their stock together, and told Miller that Jones would represent him.
Later Miller called on Jones and at Miller's request Jones,
on November 30, 1917, wrote on a Western Union formdirecting the Company to send, "subject to the terms on

WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v. CZIZEK.

283

Opinion of the Court.

281

back hereof", the following telegram addressed to the
plaintiff at 5767 Shafter Avenue, Oakland, California,
where the plaintiff lived: "Miller advises Idaho National sold to Pacific offers me ninety dollars per share
otherwise wait year and chances of liquidation says if fails
to get two thirds stock liquidation will follow. Will you
take ninety dollars per share for yours. I am inclined to
accept offer for mine. Answer." The form had been
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Commission had approved the provisions and rates that
it set forth. Among the terms on the back of the form
were the following: "To guard against mistakes or deshould order it REPEATED, that is,
lays, the sender .
telegraphed back to the originating office for comparison."
an additional half rate being charged. "Unless otherwise indicated on its face, THIS IS AN UNREPEATED TELEGRAM AND PAID FOR AS SUCH, in consideration whereof it is
agreed

.

.

.

1. The Company shall not be liable for

mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for
nondelivery, of any UNREPEATED telegram, beyond the
amount received for sending the same

.

.

.

2. In any

event the Company shall not be liable for damages for
any mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or
for the nondelivery, of this telegram, whether caused by
the negligence of its servants or otherwise, beyond the sum
of FIFTY DOLLARS, at which amount this telegram is hereby
valued, unless a greater value is stated in writing hereon
at the time the telegram is offered to the Company for
transmission, and an additional sum paid or agreed to be
paid based on such value equal to one-tenth of one per
cent. thereof."
This telegram was an unrepeated message of the class
known as night letter, and was not specially valued or
paid for upon a value in excess of $50. It was the duty of
the receiving clerk, Margaret Brown, to indorse her in-

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

itials, the filing time and the amount of toll received, and
to place the message on the sending hook for transmission.
By inadvertence, although a competent clerk, she put it in
a file of earlier messages instead of upon the hook, and it
was not sent. The next day Jones's son inquired at the
telegraph office for an answer and being told that there
was none, asked if they had sent the telegram and was
answered yes. On December 3 he asked again and was
told that the plaintiff had received the message. Miller
was ready and willing to buy the stock until December 5,
1917, and the plaintiff testified that he would have sold
if he had received the telegram. Later the stock became
worthless. The District Court found that there was no
gross negligence but the Circuit Court of Appeals distinguished between a failure to take the first step toward
transmission and some later neglect, held that the failure
was not and, as a matter of public policy, could not be
within the protection of the terms that we have stated
and held the company liable for $4,500 with interest at
seven per cent. from June 18, 1918, on which day the
plaintiff made a demand.
The plaintiff, the respondent here, does not deny that he
is bound by the terms that we have recited. That was
assumed below and is established law. Western Unioh
Telegraph Co. v. Esteve Bros. & Co., 256 U. S. 566.
Those terms apply as definitely to a nondelivery in consequence of a neglect or oversight at the first office as at
any other. The moment that the message is received the
contract attaches along with the responsibility, and the
transit begins. We can perceive no legal distinction between that moment and the next when the message is
handed to a transmitting clerk, or that on which a copy is
given to a boy at the further end./ The hand that holds
the paper technically is that of the Company, but no more
at the beginning than at the end, and as in fact it is that
of servants, reasonable self-protection is allowed to the

WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v. CZIZEK.
281

Opinion of the Court.

master against their neglects. One such self-protection
sanctioned by fhe decisions is a valuation of the message,
with liberty to the sender to fix a higher value on paying
more for it. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S.
491. The plaintiff finds no difficulty in valuing the message now. It was at least equally possible to value it
when it was sent. See Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Esteve Bros. & Co., 256 U. S. 566, 574; Postal TelegraphCable Co. v. Warren-Godwin Lumber Co., 251 U. S. 27.
When the message is valued it may be doubted whether
the valuation can be affected by the intensity of the vituperative epithet applied to an admitted fault. Kirsch v.
Postal Telegraph Cable Co., 100 Kans. 250, 252. At all
events something more would have to be shown than is
proved here to take the case out of the general rule. The
act of the receiving clerk cannot reasonably be supposed
to have been more than a momentary inadvertence. It
was not a wilful wrong. The answers to the inquiries
were probably the natural consequence of the firsi error.
and the second answer probably was too late to have had
any effect upon the plaintiff's position. See Prinirose v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 154 U. S. 1, 15. With regard to the amount of the valuation, if it is too low now,
Unrepeated Message Case, 61 I. C. C. 541, it was reasonable in 1917. Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph,Co.,
154 U. S. 1, 15. Unrepeated Message Case, 44 I. C. C.
670. Whatever effect may be given to the judgment of
the Commission in the later case, it was not intended to
be retroactive. The rules prescribed by the Commission
were to take effect on July 13, 1921.
We have not adverted to the first clause of the exemptions, limiting liability to the amount received for sending
the message. Obviously this has a narrower scope than
the valuation clause and we should hesitate to hold that
it exonerated the defendant in this case. Unrepeated
Message Case, 61 I. C. C. 541.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U.S.

Another clause not mentioned as yet reads: "The
Company will not be liable for damages or statutory penalties in any case where the claim is not presented in
writing within sixty days after the telegram is filed with
the Company for transmission." This could not be held
to apply literally to a case where through the fault of
the Company the plaintiff did not know of the message
until the sixty days had passed. It might be held to give
the measure of a reasonable time for presenting the claim
after the fact was known, in the absence of anything more.
But here the plaintiff called on Hackett, the General Manager at Boise, about February 14, 1918, as soon as he knew
the facts. Directly after, he received a letter from Hackett regretting the occurrence and enclosing the amount
paid by the plaintiff as toll. Three days later the plaintiff
returned the check by letter saying " an acceptance of this
check on my part might be construed as a settlement of
the matter," so that the defendant then had written notice
that a claim was made. There was further communication and finally on June 18 the plaintiff made a formal
written demand. We should be unwilling to decide that
the action was barred by this clause. But we are of
opinion that his claim is limited to fifty dollars for the
reasons given above.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

DORCHY v. STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 163.

Argued January 15, 16, 1924.-Decided March 10, 1924.

1. The system of compulsory arbitration of industrial disputes set up
by the Court of Industrial Relations Act of Kansas, and held unconstitutional in Wolff Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations,
262 U. S. 522, as applied to packing plants, is, for the same reasons,

invalid as applied to coal mines of that State. P. 289.

