PIERCE OIL CORP. v. HOPKINS.
134

Statement of the Case.

territory occupied and administered by a country, but not
officially recognized as being a part of it, is to be deemed
a part for the purposes of this section, we have no occasion
to consider. For, since the entry of the judgment below,
the Treaty of Riga has so defined the eastern boundary
of Poland as to include Grodno; and the United States
has officially recognized this boundary line. Grodno is
now confessedly a part of Poland. The validity of a
detention questioned by a petition for habeas corputs is
to be determined by the condition existing at the time of
the final decision thereon. Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S.
339, 343. Deportation to Poland is now legal.
Affirmed.
PIERCE OIL CORPORATION v. HOPKINS, COUNTY
CLERK OF SEBASTIAN COUNTY, ARKANSAS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 151.

Argued January 11, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.

A state law requiring retailers of gasoline to collect from purchasers
a tax of 1 per gallon upon such gasoline sold by them as they have
reason to believe the purchasers will use in motors on the highways of the State, and requiring the retailers to register, and to
report and pay over each month the taxes accruing on sales made,
under penalty of a fine, held, not violative of the retailers' rights
under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 139.
282 Fed. 253, affirmed.

from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit to enjoin enforcement of an Arkansas law
taxing gasoline.
APPEAL

Mr. Sam T. Poe, with whom Mr. Tom Poe and Mr.
Louis Tarlowski were on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Mr. William T. Hammock, Assistant Attorney General,
with whom Mr. J. S. Utley, Attorney General, Mr. John
L. Carter,Miss Darden Moose and Mr. J. S. Abercrombie,
Assistant Attorneys General, of the State of Arkansas,
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Arkansas provides that one who sells gasoline to be used by the purchaser in motor vehicles on highways of the State "shall collect from such purchaser, in
addition to the usual charge therefor, the sum of one cent
(1) per gallon for each gallon so sold;" that the dealer
shall register with the county clerk in every county in
which he does business; shall file each month a report of
the sales made within the county during the preceding
month; shall personally pay over each month the amount
of the taxes accrued thereon; and that failure to file the
report or to pay such amount is a misdemeanor which subjects the dealer to a fine. Act No. 606, March 29, 1921,
Acts of Arkansas, 1921, p. 685. To enjoin the enforcement of the law the Pierce Oil Corporation brought, in the
federal court for Western Arkansas, this suit against taxing officials. The trial court dismissed the bill, without
opinion. Its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 282 Fed 253. The case is here under ยง 241
of the Judicial Code. Whether the statute is valid is the
sole question for decision. The claims are that the statute
violates the due process clause of the Federal Constitution; and that it is void for uncertainty.'
I In the District Court the plaintiff challenged the validity of the
law also under the state constitution. But after the appeal was
taken, the statute was upheld by the highest court of the State in
Standard Oil v. Brodie, 153 Ark. 114. So that question is not before
us. In this Court, it was argued that the statute violates the equal
protection clause. - As the contention was not made below, it is not
considered. That the remedy at law was not adequate is conceded.

PIERCE OIL CORP. v. HOPKINS.
137

Opinion of the Court.

The claim that the act violates the due process clause
rests upon the argument that the tax levied is a privilege
tax for the use of the highways by the purchasers; that
the seller is required to pay the tax laid on the purchasers;
that, unlike those cases where a bank is required to pay
taxes assessed against stockholders or depositors, Citizens
National Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 443; Clement National Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120, the seller is not
afforded the means of reimbursing himself; and that,
moreover, the mere process of collecting the tax from the
purchaser, and making monthly reports and payments,
subjects the seller to an appreciable expense. A short
answer to this argument is that the seller is directed to
collect the tax from the purchaser when he makes the
sale; and that a State which has, under its constitution,
power to regulate the business of selling gasoline (and
doubtless, also, the power to tax the privilege of carrying
on that business) is not prevented by the due process
clause from imposing the incidental burden.
The claim that the law is void for uncertainty is not
urged as a violation of the due process clause. Compare
InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216:
Fox v. Washington, 236 U. S. 273. The argument, that
there inheres in the statute such uncertainty as to render
it a nullity, is answered by the fact that, since the judgment was entered in the trial court, all uncertainty has
been removed by the decision of the highest court of the
State in StandardOil Co. v. Brodie, 153 Ark. 114. There
the act was construed as requiring sellers to collect and
pay the tax only on such gasoline as they have reason to
believe purchasers from them will use in motors on the
highways.
Affirmed.

