OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY ET
AL. v. COUNTY OF KING ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 138.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted January 2, 1924.Decided February 18, 1924.

1. The time allowed, by the Act of September 6, 1916, for a writ of
error from this Court to review a judgment of a state court, begins
to run from entry of the formal judgment of record in the state
court, and not from the previous filing of the court's opinion and
decision. Procedure in the State of Washington considered. P. 23.
2. A party who did not raise a federal question in the state courts
cannot come here by assigning error jointly with another party
who raised it. P. 25.
3. The property of a street railway company, in view of its peculiar
character, may be classified differently from property of commercial
steam railways, for state taxation, without violating the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 26.
4. A law of Washington providing for taxation of all the operating
property of street railways, as personalty, though consisting partly
of real estate, and thereby depriving the owner of certain advantages as to time of payment, rate of interest and redemption
allowed other owners of realty,---held not arbitrary. Id.
5. The Fourteenth Amendment does not impose on state taxation a
requirement of equality so rigid that the legislature may not adjust
its measures in view of the practical, as well as theoretical, incidence of taxation. P. 28.
117 Wash. 351, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington which affirmed a judgment of a lower court dismissing the complaint of the Puget Sound Power & Light Company and the cross complaint filed by City of Seattle
against its co-defendants, in a suit by the Power & Light
Company to enjoin collection of taxes on its street railway property.

PUGET SOUND CO. v. KING COUNTY.
22

23

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Howard A. Hanson and Mr. Malcolm Douglas, for
defendants in error, in support of the motion to dismiss
or affirm.
Mr. James B. Howe, Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, Mr.
Thomas J. L. Kennedy, Mr. Walter B. Beals and Mr.
Walter F. Meier, for plaintiffs in error, in opposition to
the motion. Mr. Hugh A. Tait, J1r. Edgar L. Crider,
Mr. Norwood W. Brockett and Mr. Edwin C. Ewing were
also on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Puget Sound Power and Light Company owned
a street railway, part of which was in Seattle. This part
it sold to the City in 1919. In the contract of purchase
it was agreed that if when the deed was delivered any lien
should have attached to the property for the taxes of
1919, it should not constitute a breach of warranty, and
the tax should be paid in amounts proportioned to the
parts of the year during which the parties were respectively in possession. The deed was delivered March 31,
1919, and possession then taken. On March 15, 1919,
an assessment had been made by the Tax Commissioner
of the State on the operating property of the street railway, including that part then contracted to be sold to
the city. The Power Company brought this suit in the
Superior Court of King County, Washington, against the
County and its taxing authorities, the State Tax Commissioner, and the City of Seattle to restrain the collection of taxes under the assessment as illegal. The
Superior Court dismissed the complaint. Its action was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State and this is
a writ of error to that court. The case comes before us
on a motion to dismiss or affirm.
The first ground for the motion is that the writ of error
was not taken within the time allowed by law. By the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U.S.

Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, § 6, 39 Stat. 727, it is
provided that no writ of error intended to bring any cause
for review to this Court shall be allowed or entertained
unless duly applied for within three months after entry
of the judgment or decree complained of. The Washington Supreme Court sits in two departments and en banc.
The Second Department filed its opinion October 15, 1921.
The case was reargued before the court en banc, which in
a per curiam opinion filed June 12, 1922, approved the
decision of the Second Department and affirmed the judgment. On July 10th there was entered on the minutes
of the court the following:
"Judgment.
"This cause having been heretofore submitted to the
Court, upon the transcript of the record of the Superior
and the Court having
Court of King County, . .
fully considered the same, and being fully advised in the
premises, it is now, on this 10th day of July, A. D. 1922,
. . . considered, adjudged and decreed, that the judgment of the said Superior Court be, and the same is,
hereby affirmed with costs."
The contention is that the per curiam opinion filed June
12th was under the constitution and laws of Washington
the judgment from which the time for allowance of the
writ of error from this Court began to run, and that the
period thus expired on September 12, 1922, whereas the
writ of error herein was not applied for until September
22nd. Under the. law of Washington (§§ 10 and 11 of
Remington's Compiled Statutes of Washington, 1922) a
decision of a department of the Supreme Court does not
become final until thirty days after it is filed, during
which a petition for rehearing may be filed. If no rehearing is asked for, or no order entered for a hearing en banc,
in the thirty days, the decision becomes final. If a hearing en banc is ordered and had, as here, the decision is

PUGET SOUND CO. v. KING COUNTY.
22

25

Opinion of the Court.

final when filed; but in all cases where the decision is
final, there is a specific provision that a judgment shall
issue thereon. It is apparent that however final the decision may be, it is not the judgment. It is said that the
latter is a mere formal ministerial entry of a clerical character, whereas the real judgment is the final decision.
Whatever the effect of the distinction in the procedure
of the State, which counsel seek to make, we are in no
doubt that that which the Washington statute calls the
judgment is the judgment referred to in the Act of
Congress of September 6, 1916, supra, fixing the time in
which writs of error must be applied for and allowed.
The motion to dismiss the writ granted the Power Company must be denied
A separate motion to dismiss is directed against the
City of Seattle which appears as a plaintiff in error with
the Street Railway Company. It was made a defendant
in the Superior Court by. the Company. It filed an
answer supporting the averments of the complaint and a
cross complaint against its codefendants, asking the same
relief as that asked in the complaint. It took a separate
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State. No evidence
appears in the record that it raised an objection based on
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution
or any other federal question in the Superior Court or
Supreme Court. It is too late for the City to raise it in
the assignment of errors in this Court, even though it
joins in the assignment with the Street Railway Cornpany which did raise such an objection in all the courts.
Sully v. American National Bank, 1.78 U. S. 289, 297.
It is difficult to see how, under Trenton v. New Jersey,
262 U. S. 182, and like cases, the City could have been
heard as against the State to complain of state taxes on
the ground that they violated the Fourteenth Amendment; but it is not necessary to decide this. The motion
to dismiss the writ of the City must be granted for the
reason first stated.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

We come now to the motion to affirm the judgment
against the Power Company. By objections seasonably
taken before both state courts and in the assignment of
errors, the Power Company questioned the validity of the
Act of February 21, 1911, of the Legislature of Washington (Laws of Washington, 1911, p. 62) amending an Act
of the same body of March 6, 1907 (§12, c. 78, Session
Laws of 1907), under which the taxes complained of were
assessed. Before 1911, the laws of Washington provided
for a separate assessment of the real estate and of the
personalty of a street railway. By the act of that year
this was changed and it was provided "that all of the
operating property of street railroads shall be assessed
and taxed as personal property." The effect of this act,
so far as the real estate of the street railway used in its
operation was concerned, was, first, to fix the day of
payment of the taxes as on March 15th in each year,
in accord with the law as to taxes on personalty, instead
of May 31st, the day fixed for the payment of real estate
taxes, with an option in the real estate taxpayer to postpone payment of one-half of his tax until November
30th; second, to impose 15 per centum as interest after
delinquency, instead of 12 per centum interest as on real
estate tax delinquency; and, third, to authorize a sale
of the property taxed on ten days' notice after delinquency, without any right of redemption, while the sale
of real estate for delinquency is longer delayed and a
period of redemption is reserved.
It is insisted that to make these differences between the
taxation of real estate of a street railway and that of
other railroads, other corporations and individuals, is to
deny owners of street railway property equal protection
of the laws.
The Act of 1911 treated the operating street railway
property as a business unit, as a machine consisting of
cars, tracks, street easements, wires, power houses and

PUGET SOUND CO. v. KING COUNTY.
22

27

Opinion of the Court.

all the parts of one system. More than half of this total
is probably personalty. Much of the realty is mere
easements in the streets. The assets of a street railway
differ widely from those of the steam commercial railways that own the land upon which their tracks are laid.
that have most extensive terminals and whose business
is of a radically different character. A separate treatment of these two classes of railroads for taxation has
been sustained by this Court because of these manifest
differences. Savannah, etc., Ry. Co. v. Savannah, 19.S
U. S. 392. Metropolitan Street Ry. Co. v. Board of Ta.r
Colnnissioners, 199 U. S. 1. A street railway is su;
generis. It is not necessarily to be regarded as real estate.
Its value is made of uncertain factors. When its franchise to do business expires, its easement in the streets
usually terminates, and its rails become but scrap steel.
We do not think, considering the very wide discretion
a legislature has in such a case, that it was arbitrary to
tax the whole street railway unit as personalty. That
such a change in this case entailed no real hardship or
arbitrary discrimination is shown by the fact that before
the new method of treating street railway property was
enforced, the tax agent of the street railway company for
several years requested that realty and personalty be
taxed in. solido.
We are considering this case only from the standpoint
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. The objections based on the state constitution
of Washington have been settled adversely and conclusively for us by the decision herein of the State Supreme
Court. Counsel cite us cases which have little relation
to the federal question before us. Johnson v. Wells Fargo
& Co., 239 U. S. 234; Ewert v. Taylor, 38 S. D. 124;
State ex rel. Owen v. Donald, 161 Wise. 188, and like
cases involved the application of somewhat stringent provisions of state constitutions as to equality of taxation on

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

all kinds of property which left but little room for classification. Such restrictions have much embarrassed state
legislatures because actual equality of taxation is unattainable. The theoretical operation of a tax is often very
different from its practical incidence, due to the weakness of human nature and anxiety to escape tax burdens.
This justifies the legislature, where the Constitution does
not forbid, in adopting variant provisions as to the rate,
the assessment and the collection for different kinds of
property. The reports of this Court are full of cases
which demonstrate that the Fourteenth Amendment was
not intended, and is not be be construed, as having any
such object as these stiff and unyielding requirements of
equality in state constitutions. No better statement of
th6 unvarying attitude of this Court on this subject can
be found than in the often quoted language of Mr. Justice
Bradley, in speaking for the Court in Bell's Gap R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237:
"The provision in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no
State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws, was not intended to prevent
a State from adjusting its system of taxation in all proper
and reasonable ways. It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes of property from any taxation at all, such as
churches, libraries and the property of charitable institutions. It may impose different specific taxes upon different trades and professions, and may vary the rates of
excise upon various products; it may tax real estate and
personal property in a different manner; it may tax visible
property only, and not tax securities for payment of
money; it may allow deductions for indebtedness, or not
allow them. All such regulations, and those of like character, so long as they proceed within reasonable limits
and general usage, are within the discretion of the State
legislature, or of the people of the State in framing their
Constitution. But clear and hostile discriminations

FLEMING v. FLEMING.
Syllabus.

22

against particular persons and classes, especially such as
are of an unusual character, unknown to the practice of
our governments, might,be obnoxious to the constitutional
prohibition. It would, however, be impracticable and
unwise to attempt to lay down any general rule or definition on the subject, that would include all cases. They
must be decided as they arise. We think that we are safe
in saying, that the Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equol
taxation."
Clearly there is nothing of an unusual character in the
method adopted in this case for the assessment and collection of taxes upon street railways. The general practice
of providing special methods of estimating the burden of
taxation which this peculiar kind of property should bear
is well known and proves that it justifies a separate classification.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Affirned.
FLEMING ET AL. v. FLEMING.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMNIE COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 175.

Argued January 17, 1924.-Decided Febru: ry 1', PU2 .

1. An objection to a decision of a State Supreme Court that it impaired contract rights, in violation of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution, by overruling former decisions, was first made to that
court by a second petition for rehearing, and was denied upon the
ground that the prior decisions were not overruled. Held, a consideration of the point sufficient as a basis for assigning error here.
P. 31.
2. The impairment of contract obligation forbidden by Art. I, § 10, of
the Constitution, is impairment by legislation. The proposition
that judicial impairment is included has been so frequently denied
that it can not support a writ of error to a State Supreme Court.
Id. Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan,263 U. S. 444.

