64

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264U. S.

UNITED STATES AT THE RELATION OF ST.
LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 398. Argued January 23, 24, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.
1. Congress may make one fact prima facie evidence of another if the
inference is not so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary mandate. P. 77.
2. Under § 19a of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, directing the Commission to investigate, ascertain and report the value
of the properties of common carriers, and to hear the protests of
any carrier against a valuation tentatively made; declaring a final
valuation prima facie evidence of the value of the carrier's property in all proceedings under the act and in various judicial proceedings, and providing that, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, its records and data shall be open to the inspection and
examination of the public. Held:
(a) That an order of the Commission denying inspection of records
by others than its employees, unless and until offered in evidence at
hearings upon protests or before a court, was valid against an interested carrier in so far as the claim to examine them might be
based upon the naked ground of their being public documents.
P. 78.
(b) Subject to the right of the Commission to prevent undue interference with the work in its offices, and undue protraction of hearings, manifest justice requires that the carrier be enabled to
examine and meet the data upon which preliminary valuation of its
property is founded, and, to this end, be given such information in
advance of the hearing as will enable it to point out errors. Id.
(c) This claim of the carrier should not be denied upon the ground
of public policy, nor upon the ground that the evidence was given
the Commission in confidence. Id.
(d) The carrier is not entitled to subpoenas from the Commission
not presently needed. P. 79.
290 Fed. 264, affirmed.

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, affirming a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District, which dismissed a petition for a
mandamus against the Interstate Commerce Commission
and some of its officials.
Mr. J. R. Turney, with whom Mr. C. D. Drayton was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The Valuation Act did not empower the Commission to
abrogate relator's right, as a party litigant, to examine
records and data in the possession of the Commission containing evidence material to the prosecution of relator's
protest.
The value reported in the tentative valuation is a
mathematical calculation based upon three subordinate
findings, (1) the so-called cost of reproducing the
physical property, (2) the amount of depreciation in the
physical property, and (3) the present value of relator's
lands. The reproduction cost is based entirely upon certain average unit prices obtained from statistical data
gathered and compiled by the employees of the bureau.
The amount of depreciation deducted was determined
primarily by the service life of the several physical units
also shown by the averages of data similarly gathered
and compiled by the Commission's employees. The
present value of the lands of relator was determined by
the assessment for tax purposes of certain other property
in the vicinity, by the sales of like property in the vicinity
and by the opinion of certain unnamed persons as to the
value of lands lying in the vicinity of relator's lands.
Assuming, but not conceding, that this is the correct
method of valuing railroad property, the burden cast
upon a protestant can be sustained only by showing that
these underlying data are incorrect in one or more of the
following particulars: (1) because the facts contained
in the data are untrue; (2) because the projects from
97851'-24-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

which the statistical data were compiled were unfairly
selected or were inapplicable to the case in which the
average is to be used; (3) because other and material
relevant data which would have affected the result materially were either not considered or were excluded in
making the compilation; and finally, (4) because the
actual analyses and compilations of the data were incorrect mathematically, in theory, application or arithmetic.
The Commission states that the statistical data above
described were gathered from nation-wide sources, embracing, not only all carriers, but innumerable manufacturers, etc. In order to make the foregoing tests of the
accuracy and applicability of the facts stated in these
data, it will be necessary to investigate the original records from these many sources. To ascertain whether the
statistical data are complete it will be necessary to compare and analyze the compilations used by the Commission with the results of similar studies of other data made
by the protestant. To test the experiential qualifications
of the men upon whose opinion various facts are based,
it will be necessary to investigate the education, mental
habit, the environment and objective point of the person
giving the facts, the motive prompting his opinion or his
selection, as well as the extent of his information. With
respect to the sales of land used as a basis for fixing the
land values, it will be necessary to investigate whether
or not the property sold was comparable with that of
the property of the railroad; whether the sale was voluntary or made under duress or coercion; whether the
consideration shown was in fact actually paid; whether
the area reported was the correct area, and finally, what
effect the inclusion of other sales omitted by the Commission would have had on the unit price. When these
facts have been investigated, it will then be necessary to
recompile and analyze the data to determine whether
or not the analysis used by the Bureau's employees was
correct mathematically.

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

There is a fundamental difference between the evidence
to which access is sought in this case and that which
ordinarily forms a predicate of judicial action. The
time required to make such examination and analysis
means that unless the relator has the opportunity to
examine the data in advance of the hearing, its right to
contest the tentative valuation will be denied for all
practical purposes.
The data sought consist of statistics and records gathered from a large number of different sources by means of
questionnaires, circulars and personal interviews purporting to show the cost and values of railroad property. They
were gathered, compiled and analyzed by officers of the
Government at public expense in performance of a statutory duty and are now preserved in the Commission's files
as a permanent memorial of how that duty was performed.
They are, therefore, public records, which a litigant has a
right to examine. People v. Peck, 13S N. Y. 386; Coleman v. Commonwealth, 25 Gratt. 865; Robinson v. Fishback, 135 Ind. 132.
Under paragraph (j) of the valuation section the final
value fixed by the Commission is made printa fade evidence of the value in all judicial proceedings, in which the
data would be material evidence on behalf of the relator
and to impeach this prima fade showing. It is not necessary in order for the right to examine a public record to
arise, that the litigation be pending. The right exists if
the data contain evidence material to the prosecution of
a claim or a defense in a case which may arise. Citronelle
v. Skinner, 60 Ala. 812; Ferry v. Williams, 41 N. J. L. 332;
Ex parte Uppercu, 239 U. S. 435.
The discretion which the statute (par. e) gives the Commission to seal its records is limited to the general public,
and does not refer to litigants or other persons who have
the right of access to the evidence independent of the
statute. See Palaciosv. Corbett, 172 S. W. 777; Wellford
v. Williams, 110 Tenn. 549; Colescot v. King, 154 Ind. 621.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 J. S.

The Commission's construction of the statute does not
foreclose judicial action. Work v. McAlester-Edwards
Co., 262 U. S. 200; Roberts v. United States, 176 U. S.
221; Lane v. Hoglund, 244 U. S. 174.
Denial of the right was in any event outside the discretion of the Commission, and arbitrary and void.
The statement that opening the records would be detrimental to the public interest, conveys no reason.
The statement that disclosure would make it impossible
to secure reliable and uninfluenced opinions, means that
justice will more likely be done in a proceeding in camera
than it will in one in which the parties can hear and be
heard. See Jackson v. Mobley, 157 Ala. 108; Re Egan,
205 N. Y. 147.
That it would prolong the work, increase the expense
and interfere with performance of duties of the Commission's employees, are reasons upon their face without legal
force. The statute declares that the records shall be open
to the public, except for good cause shown. The Commission has no more right to decline to perform a duty placed
upon it by Congress, because the performance of the duty
will require time and expense, than it has to decline to
perform it upon the ground that it is impossible of performance, or that it would be futile to do so. Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 252
U. S. 178.
The reasons which Congress had in mind that would
warrant the sealing of the records were those which would
apply to some particular case or some particular record,
but not these which would apply to the opening of all records in all cases.
Since the statute relied upon by the defendants requires
that the records shall be public, in the absence of an order
based upon lawful reasons, an order sealing the records
which does not meet this requirement is utterly null and
void.

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mandamus is the proper remedy. Ex parte Bradley,
7 Wall. 364; Mauldin v. Matthews, 81 S. Car. 414; Kclleher v. School Board, 134 M1o. 296; Yeargin v. Maschke,
90 Wash. 249; CaliforniaPine Box Co. v. Superior Court,
13 Cal. App. 65.
Relator was entitled to a subpoena duces tecum requiring the production of the documentary evidence underlying the tentative valuation and, for the purpose of
cross examination, the attendance of the employees of
the Bureau of Valuation who gathered, compiled and
analyzed such evidence. Omaha v. Omaha Water Co.,
218 U. S. 180, distinguished.
The valuation proceeding is a quasi judicial one, and
therefore, in accordance with the principles laid down in
Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, relator, as a party litigant, was
entitled to be apprised as to all evidence considered.
The Interstate Connerce Act expressly provides (§ 17)
that "proceedings before it [the Commission] . . . shall
conform as nearly as may be to those in use in courts of
the United States." Congress intended the Commission
to administer § 19a of the act in precisely the same
manner that it had administered others-by giving all
parties, including its own employees, an opportunity to
introduce evidence, and then deciding the issues upon the
evidence thus introduced.
Any judgment reached by a court with respect to the
value of a carrier's property in a case involving the Act
to Regulate Commerce must be entirely based upon the
very evidence which the Commission considered in making the finding. How could the court make such a finding
if there were no record of a substantial part of the
evidence considered by the Conimission, or, especially, if
the Commission made its tentative finding without evidence? This paragraph (j) of the act of necessity restricts the Commission to a proceeding which determines

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

value upon evidence which a court can consider, when
under the act it becomes necessary for a court to pass
upon that question.
That Congress intended that the valuation proceeding
should be of a judicial nature is shown by the effect which
it gives to the order of the Commission made as a result
of the proceeding, not only in making such order prima
fade evidence of the valuation of relator's property in all
proceedings (including judicial proceedings), but in authorizing the Commission to use the valuation and the
data supporting it for determining (1) reasonable charges
under paragraph 5, § 1; (2) amount of sale price and
security issues upon the purchase by one carrier of the
property of another under paragraph 6b, § 5; (3) reasonableness of aggregate level of rates of the country as a
whole, paragraphs 2 and 4, § 15a; (4) amount of excess
earnings to be recaptured from carriers under paragraph
6, § 15a; (5) amount and conditions of security issues by
carriers under § 20a of the act.
A proceeding where one's property rights may be taken
through administrative action without anything more
than a mock hearing in which he is neither apprised of the
evidence considered nor given opportunity to introduce
relevant evidence, would constitute a failure of due process under the Fifth Amendment. Bratton v. Chandler,
260 U. S. 110.
Paragraph (i) gives the carrier the right to a hearing,
including the right to introduce evidence. Of what value
is this right if the carrier be denied the right not only to
show that evidence upon which the tentative valuation is
based is false, but even to know what that evidence is?
No claim is made by the carrier to a right to a hearing
prior to the time the tentative valuation is announced.
Nor is such a hearing essential to the protection of its
rights.
The provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce which
relate to rate hearings are almost identical in terms with

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

those in § 19a. In both the governing words are "investigate" and "hearing." Some years ago the Commission
took the position that it could base its findings in rate
cases upon evidence not received at the hearing, and which
was undisclosed to the carrier. But this Court in Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisuille & Nashville R. R.
Co., 227 U. S. 88, overruled the contention.
This evidence constitutes an integral part of a "proceeding" under the Interstate Commerce Act. Deere
Plow Co. v. Jones, 68 Kans. 650; American Shipbuilding
Co. v. Whitney, 190 Fed. 109. And such proceedings
under the express terms of paragraph (1) of § 17 "shall
be public at the request of any party interested."
The excuse that these data are private and confidential
information either of third persons, the Government or of
the Commission or its employees, ought to have no standing whatever in a court of justice. Boston & Maine
R. R. v. State, 75 N. H. 513; Wertheim v. Continental Ry.
Co., 21 Blatchf. 246.
No officer of the Government, as such, has any privilege
as a witness. Gugy v. Maguire, 13 Sou. Can. 33; Hartranft's Appeal, 83 Pa. St. 433; Wigmore, Evidence, par.
2375; II Robertson's "Trials of Burr," pp. 517-519; 1
id., p. 182.
The Commission had no discretion to refuse to issue a
subpoena, under § 12 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
If the relator is entitled to have the records produced its
right to have a subpoena therefor should not be denied
upon the assumption that the Commission will require its
employees to be present at the hearing.
The data were sufficiently described.
Mandamus is the proper remedy to compel the issuance
of the subpoena. The duty is ministerial. Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S. 300; San Francisco Gas Co. v. Superior
Court, 155 Cal. 30.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia had
jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

This is not a suit to set aside or annul an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Ex parte Uppercu, 239
U. S. 435.
The order in question is an ex parte administrative one
which does not relate to anyone except the Commission.
Neither the relator nor any other person, outside of
the Commission's own employees, is required "to do or
abstain from doing any act." The order, therefore,
is not reviewable in a direct proceeding to annul or set
it aside. United States v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 244
U. S. 82; Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225
U. S. 282.
The jurisdiction which the Commerce Court obtained
was only " that now possessed by the Circuit Courts of the
United States." Jud. Code, § 207; Procter& Gamble Co.
v. United States, supra. Therefore, unless the words
"Circuit Courts" include the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, the jurisdiction of the latter court
which undoubtedly existed prior to the establishment of
the Commerce Court was not vested in the Commerce
Court, but has continued in the Supreme Court of the
District. If the words "Circuit Courts of the United
States" are to be construed as vesting the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court of the District in the Connerce Court,
then, in the similar provision of the Urgent Deficiency Appropriations Act, "District Courts" is sufficiently broad
to include the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
when that jurisdiction is reinvested.
In several mandamus cases, each embracing orders of
the Commission, jurisdiction arising subsequent to the
enactment of the Urgent Deficiency Appropriations Act
has been upheld by this Court. Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Humboldt S. S. Co., 224 U. S. 474; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm.,
252 U. S. 178; Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 246 U. S. 638.

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. P. J. Farrellfor defendants in error.
The District Courts of the United States have exclusive original jurisdiction of the subject matter, under the
Commerce Court Act and the Act of October 22, 1913,
38 Stat. 219. The real purpose is to annul the Commission's order of October 9, [the substance of which is
given in the Court's opinion, infra, 75,1 made under the
Interstate Commerce Act, particularly § 19a, par. (e).
The petition does not allege facts showing illegal acts
or breach of legal duty by the defendants in error, or
any of them.
The petition does not show that the Commission has
refused to issue subpoenas requiring the other defendants
to appear at a hearing before the Commission and testify
concerning the valuation of the property referred to in
the petition.
Congress intended to leave the Commission free to exercise its own discretion as to the issuance of subpcenas;
and it would not be proper for the Court, by mandamus,
to interfere. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Waste Merchants Assn., 260 U. S. 32.
No particular record or datum is mentioned, or designated.
Plaintiff's motion to the Commission was an attempt
to secure a search warrant to enter upon a fishing expedition in the Commission's Bureau of Valuation for the
purpose of ascertaining whether there is anything in the
working papers of the Commission's employees which,
in the opinion of plaintiff, can profitably be used by it
in any hearing before the Commission which may hereafter be held upon its protest. Representatives of the
plaintiff and employees of the Commission could not at
the same time use the records and data mentioned, and
this, we submit, clearly demonstrates the correctness of
reasons for denying the motion set forth in the Commission's order of October 9. See Jenkins v. Bennett, 40
S. Car. 393.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

264 IT. S.

The theory of the plaintiff appears to be that the Commission cannot perform properly the appraisal duties
under § 19a unless, upon demand, it exhibits to plaintiff
for criticism all information the Commission may obtain
concerning costs and values in the investigation. This
ignores the difference between the duties of the Commissioners as appraisers under said § 19a, and the duties
they perform in determining disputed questions of fact
in rate and similar eases. Omaha v. Omaha Water Co.,
218 U. S. 180.
If the Commission, in fixing final values, commits errors
of law, they can be corrected in suits instituted in District
Courts of the United States; but they cannot be corrected,
either before or after the final values are so fixed, in
mandamus proceedings.
If, after plaintiff has introduced evidence in support of
its protest, in a hearing before the Commission, evidence
of a contrary import is introduced at the hearing, plaintiff
will then have a right to test the accuracy, competency
and relevancy of the latter evidence, but, in advance of
the introduction by it of its own evidence, it may not
properly insist upon being given an opportunity to
examine all matters in the Commission's Bureau of Valuation for the purpose of ascertaining whether, in its
opinion, such evidence of contrary import is therein contained. And what is said here about the introduction of
evidence before the Commission will be equally applicable
to the introduction of evidence in court, if plaintiff challenges in court the validity of action the Commission may
finally take in determining the value of the property.
MR.

JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.

This proceeding arises under what is now § 19a of the
Interstate Commerce Act. Act of February 4, 1887, c.
104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by Act of March 1, 1913,
c. 92, 37 Stat. 701, and Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91,

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Opinion of the Court.

§ 433, 41 Stat. 456, 474, 493. Obeying this section the
Interstate Commerce Commission made a tentative valuation of the relator's property and served it upon the
relator, the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, in
July, 1921. In due time the relator filed its protest
against the valuation, as provided by the act, especially
against the findings of the final value of the property, the
cost of reproduction new, the cost of reproduction less
depreciation, present value of relator's lands, and the
present cost of condemnation and damages or of purchase
of lands in excess of present value. In July, 1922, the
Commission, as required, made an order setting the matter
down for hearing in Washington on September 26, 1922.
On July 20 the relator filed a motion with the Commission
praying for an order allowing it to examine the underlying
data upon which the valuation was based, and for a
subpoma duces tecum to named officers of the Comnission directing them to bring with them to the hearing all
the data in any way relating to the matter in issue. In
August the Conmmission canceled the hearing and in
October made an order to the following effect. It recited
that the opening of certain records to inspection before
they were offered in evidence before the Commission in
hearings upon protests or before a Court of competent
jurisdiction, would be detrimental to the public interest;
would make it impossible to secure as uninfluenced opinions upon land values and price and cost information as
the Commission could otherwise; would unnecessarily
prolong the work, and greatly increase the expense; and
would seriously interfere with due performance of the
regular duties of the Commission's employees. It therefore ordered that, until further order, office or field notations, &c., in the Bureau of Valuation; opinions and correspondence from or to any employee thereof; land field
notes; land computation sheets; cost information secured
from others than the carrier in question; cost studies and

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

cost analyses prepared by the Bureau of Valuation, should
not be open to inspection by other than the employees of
the Commission unless and until offered in evidence at
hearings or before a Court as above.
Thereupon the relator filed the present petition for
mandamus in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia. It sets forth the foregoing facts in detail and
annexes a copy of the valuation, with the Commission's
statement of the kinds of proof and methods used in
making its findings, and further statement that those
findings were based upon certain underlying facts compiled by the employees of the Bureau of Valuation, these
underlying facts being indicated at some length. They
embraced contracts for materials made over the whole
country for the ten years ending June 30, 1914; contracts
for constructing railroads or parts during the same time;
actual expenditures for various classes of construction
work in unidentified projects selected by the Bureau;
books, vouchers and invoices of materials, &c., used in
construction during the same time; undisclosed records
purporting to show the service life of various classes of
material, &c., together with an inspection report by the
Bureau's engineers showing the age of the materials,
&c., in relator's railroad. From such data, classified and
selected, compilations and analyses were made purporting
to show average cost of materials, &c., &c., and the average
ratios of engineering and general expenses during construction and interest during construction to cost of construction in selected projects, and the average service, life,
age, &c., of the various units of property in relator's railroad. These compilations were used as the basis for finding cost of reproduction new and cost of reproduction less
depreciation in the relator's case. Similarly the present
value of relator's lands is said to have been reached upon
uncommunicated data which it is not necessary to repeat,
and the present cost of condemnation or damage or of

ST. LOUIS RY. v. INT. COM. COMM.
64

Opinion of the Court.

purchase in excess of the present value of relator's land
is said to have been reached in the same general way.
The foregoing data are alleged to have been reduced to
writing and to be within the control of the Commission.
It is alleged that much of the information gathered was
not under oath and that many statements were made
orally and that many opinions were taken from persons
not qualified to express the same.
The relators prayed for an order directing the Commission to allow it to examine these underlying data, contracts, reports, compilations and records of the Bureau of
Valuation so far as in any way related to valuation of the
relator's property, and to make written and photographic
copies of the same. It also asked that the Commission be
directed to issue subpoenas to named officers as in the motion made to the Commission stated above. On a motion
to that effect the petition was dismissed by the Supreme
Court and the judgment was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals. We are of opinion that the judgment was right.
and will indicate not only the grounds of our decision but
what we think that the relator reasonably may demand.
The relator's claim of right has for its broadest basis the
fact that the valuation when made final by the Commission will be prima facie evidence in various judicial proceedings in which the value of the property is material to
the decision of the case. But the legislature may make
one fact prima facie evidence of another if the inference
is not "so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary mandate." Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.
61, 82. If Congress had given no hearing before the Commission but still had made its conclusion prima facie
evidence of value, it would be hard to say that any constitutional rights of the railroads had been infringed.
Reitler v. Harris,223 U. S. 437; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley
R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 430. The strongest basis for the
relator's claim is the statute itself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

The statue provides that "Unless otherwise ordered by
the commission, with the reasons therefor, the records and
data of the commission shall be open to the inspection
and examination of the public." The Commission has
ordered otherwise as we have stated and the order puts
an end to the claim to examine the data on the naked
ground that they are public documents.. But as the
statute provides for a hearing before the Commission it
does not follow necessarily that the parties to the proceeding are subject to the same rule when the data are
desired as evidence. The hearing to be sure is not of the
ordinary kind. The railroads have no adversary. The
Commission of course has no object except to arrive at
the truth. It is not to be cross examined for bias or otherwise as to its capacity to decide or modes of deciding what
is entrusted to it, but on the other hand, since it must
grant a hearing, manifest justice requires that the railroads should know the facts that the Commission supposes
to be established, and we presume that it would desire the
grounds of its tentative valuation to be subjected to
searching tests. But there are necessary limits. While
there can be no public policy or relation of confidence that
should prevail against the paramount claim of the roads,
the work of the Commission must go on, and cannot be
stopped as it would be if many of the railroads concerned
undertook an examination of all its papers to see what
they could find out. We need not now consider whether
the statute authorizes the order if it be construed to apply
to cases like the present, for we cannot doubt that this
Commission will do all in its power to help the relator to
whatever it justly may demand. As yet it has made no
just demand, for we accept the Commission's statement
that a general examination in the Commission's offices
would interfere too much with its work. Moreover, at the
hearing there will be limits, at the discretion of the Commission, to the right to delay the sittings by minute in-

RAILROAD COMM. v. EASTERN TEX. R. R.

79

Syllabus.

64

quiries that might protract them indefinitely. See Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 258 U. S. 165, 175. But subject to that discretion, we think that, in such way as may
be found practicable, the relator should be enabled to
examine and meet the preliminary data upon which the
conclusions are founded and to that end should be given
further information in advance of the hearing, sufficient
to enable it to point out errors, if any there be. No present
need is shown for the issue of subpoenas; and with this
intimation of our views of the Railroad's rights we repeat
our opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirned.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the decision of this
case.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF TEXAS ET AL.
v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL.
STATE OF TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEALS FROMI THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATE'
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 145 and 146.

Argued March 8, 1923.-Decided February
18, 1924.

1. The usual permissive charter of a railroad company does not
oblige the company to operate its railroad at a loss; nor is such obligation to be implied from acceptance of the charter and operation under it. P. 85.
2. In the presence of a reasonable cei-tainty that future operation
will be at a loss, a railroad company, in the absence of a contract,
may cease operation, dismantle its road and realize its salvage
value. Id.
3. Were the railroad to be compelled by the State in such circumstances to continue operation at ) loss, it would be deprived of its
property v"ithout due process of law. Id.

