446

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

264 U. S.

281, 295; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 320, 327. The
words of the statute being clear, if it unjustly discriminates
against the native-born citizen, or is cruel and inhuman
in its results, as forcefully contended, the remedy lies
with Congress and not with the courts. Their duty is
simply to enforce the law as it is written, unless clearly
unconstitutional.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 240. Argued February 25, 1924.--Decided April 7, 1924.
I. The United States, as guardian of tribal Indians, is bound to

discharge its trust with good faith and fairness, and treaties made
with them should be liberally construed. P. 448.
2. The treaty made in 1855 with the Quileute and other Indians,
by which they surrendered broader claims for a limited reservation, provided for money "to clear, fence, and break up a sufficient
quantity of land for cultivation," and authorized the President to
assign "lands" in severalty to the Indians for permanent homes.
Held, that timbered lands were not intended to be excluded from
assignment. Id.
3. The General Indian Allotment Act should be construed when
possible in harmony with previous Indian treaties. Id.
4. The General Allotment Act in limiting allotments to "eighty acres
of agricultural or one hundred and sixty acres of grazing land to
any one Indian," was not meant to preclude an allotment of
timbered lands, capable of being cleared and cultivated, but simply
to differentiate, in the matter of area, between lands adaptable to
agricultural uses and lands valuable only for grazing purposes.

P. 449.
284 Fed. 827, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court for the
plaintiff and appellee, Payne, in his suit to determine his
right to an allotment of land in an Indian Reservation.

UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
446

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. t. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Arthur E. Griffin, with whom Mr. Arthur R. Griffin
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellee, an Indian of the Quileute tribe, brought suit
in the Federal District Court for the Western District of
Washington to determine his right to an allotment of an
eighty-acre tract of land in the Quinaielt Indian Reservation in that State. Authority for bringing the suit is
found in 28 Stat. 305, c. 290, as amended by 31 Stat. 760,
c. 217. The treaty with the Quileute and other Indians,
made in 1855, among other things, provides for the removal and settlement of these Indians upon a reservation
to be selected for them by the President. and for the
payment by the United States of $2,500 "to clear, fence,
and break up a sufficient quantity of land for cultivation."
12 Stat. 971, Articles 2 and 5. The President is authorized
by Article 6 of the treaty, at his discretion, to cause the
reserved lands to be surveyed and assign the same to individual Indians or families for permanent homes on the
same terms and under the same conditions as are provided in Article 6 of the treaty with the Omahas, concluded in 1854. 10 Stat. 1043, 1044. By the General
Allotment Act, as amended, it is provided:
"In all cases where any tribe or band of Indians has
been or shall hereafter be located upon any reservation
created for their use by treaty stipulation, Act of Congress, or executive order, the President shall be authorized
to cause the same or any part thereof to be surveyed or
resurveyed whenever in his opinion such reservation or
any part thereof may be advantageously utilized for
agricultural or grazing purposes by such Indians, and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U.S.

cause allotment to each Indian located thereon to be
made in such areas as in his opinion may be for their best
interest not to exceed eighty acres of agricultural or one
hundred and sixty acres of grazing land to any one
Indian . . ." 24 Stat. 388, c. 119, as amended by
26 Stat. 794, c. 383, and 36 Stat. 859-860, c. 431.
The land in question was selected by Payne in 1911,
after survey, through and with the approval of an allotting
agent of the United States. It is of mixed character, forty
or fifty acres being timbered, and the remainder being
bottom land, lying along the Raft River.
The sole question we are called upon to decide is
whether the land, being timbered, is to be excluded from
the operation of the Allotment Act which speaks only
of agricultural and grazing lands. Both courts below determined the question in the negative, 284 Fed. 827, and
we agree with them. The treaty makes no restriction in
respect of the character of the land to be "assigned";
and while the Allotment Act, being later, must control in
case of conflict, it should be harmonized with the letter
and spirit of the treaty so far as that reasonably can be
done, since an intention to alter, and, pro tanto, abrogate,
the treaty, is not to be lightly attributed to Congress.
These Indians yielded whatever claims they may have
had to a valuable and extensive area in exchange for a
relatively small reservation, relying upon what they undoubtedly understood to be an assurance on the part of
the general government that they would be given individual and permanent homes therein. They are an
unlettered people, unskilled in the use of language, Jones
v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 10-11, with regard to whom the
United States occupies the position and assumes the responsibilities of virtual guardianship, bound by every
moral and equitable consideration to discharge its trust
with good faith and fairness. Choctaw Nation v. United
States, 119 U. S. 1, 28. Construing the treaty liberally in

UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
446

449

Opinion of the Court.

favor of the rights claimed under it, as we are bound to
do, Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, 487, we conclude that the character of the lands thereafter to be set
apart for them severally was not restricted. The authority of the President is, broadly, to assign "lands," and
that it was not meant to exclude timber lands is borne
out by the provision for a payment "to clear, fence, and
break up a sufficient quantity of land for cultivation,"
which may well mean to" clear" it of timber. It follows,
that if the Allotment Act is now construed to exclude such
lands from allotment, a materially restrictive change will
have been wrought in the terms of the treaty. Such a
construction is to be avoided, if possible. Chew Heong v.
United States, 112 U. S. 536, 541.
It is common knowledge that vast bodies of land, originally covered with timber, in some of the public land
States, including eastern Washington, have been acquired
by private entry, cleared and brought under cultivation.
The view that such lands were open to entry for agricultural purposes seems to have been generally recognized
and acted upon (see Johnson v. Bridal Veil Lumber Co.,
24 Oreg. 182, 184-186) ; and, so far as we are advised, has
never been questioned by the Land Department of the
United States. We are, therefore, constrained to reject
the rigidly literal interpretation of the Allotment Act for
which the Government here contends. It is not an unreasonable view of the requirement that an allotment
shall not "exceed eighty acres of agricultural or one
hundred and sixty acres of grazing land" to say that it
was meant not to preclude an allotment of timbered
lands, capable of being cleared and cultivated, but simply
to differentiate, in the matter of area, between lands
which may be adapted to agricultural uses and lands
valuable only for grazing purposes.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

