134

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272; Tang Tun v. Edsell, 223 U. S. 673.
But here no hasty, arbitrary or unfair action on the part
of any official, or any abuse of discretion is shown. There
is no claim that the lack of legal evidence of knowledge
was manifest; or that the finding was made in wilful disregard of the evidence to the contrary; or that settled rules
of evidence were ignored. The procedure prescribed by
the rules of the Department appears to have been followed
in every respect; and the legality of that prescribed is not
questioned. There is no suggestion that Tisi was not
allowed to prepare for the hearing, by prior examination
of the written evidence on which the warrant of arrest
issued; or that he was otherwise restricted in his preparation of the defense. The hearing was conducted orally.
Tisi was present and was represented by counsel. He
testified fully; and the many witnesses produced by the
Government were cross-examined by his counsel. He was
given ample time in which to present the evidence, the
argument, and a brief. Under these circumstances mere
error, even if it consists in finding an essential fact without adequate supporting evidence, is not a denial of due
process of law.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. MENSEVICH v. TOD,
COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION AT THE
PORT OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 148. Argued January 2, 1924.--Decided February 18, 1924.
1. An appeal brought here properly upon a constitutional proposition which is subsequently denied in another case, will not be
dismissed for that reason, but ofher questions raised will be considered. P. 135.
2. In the provision of the Immigration Act, § 20, for the deportation
of aliens to the country whence they came, "country" means the

MENSEVICH v. TOD.
134

Opinion of the Court.

State which, at the time of deportation, includes the place from
which an alien came. P. 136.
3. The validity of a detention questioned by a petition for habeas
corpus is to be determined by the condition e.isting at the time of
the final decision thereon. Id.

Affrmed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court dismissing

a petition for habeas corpus.
Mr. Walter Nelles, with whom Mr. Isaac Shorr was on
the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor General Beek and Mr. George Ross Hull,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, appeared for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1911 Mensevich emigrated from Russia to the
United States. In 1921 he was arrested in deportation
proceedings, as an alien in this country in violation of
law. Act of October 16, 1918, c. 186, §§ 1 and 2, 40 Stat.
1012, as amended June 5, 1920, c. 251, 41 Stat. 1008.
After a hearing, the warrant for deportation issued.
Then this petition for a writ of habeas corpus was brought
in the federal court. It was dismissed without opinion;
the relator was remanded to the custody of the Commissioner of Immigration for the Port of New York; and a
stay was granted, pending this appeal. The case is here
under § 238 of the Judicial Code, the claim being that
Mensevich was denied rights guaranteed by the Federal
Constitution.
The Government moved under Rule 6 of this Court to
dismiss, insisting that the appeal does not present a substantial question. Consideration of the motion was postponed until the hearing on the merits. The grounds on
which the detention was challenged in the petition are
the same as those which were held to be unsound in

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

United States ex rel. Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149.
That decision was not rendered until after this appeal
was taken. The motion to dismiss is, therefore, denied.
Sugarman v. United States, 249 U. S. 182, 183. In the
traverse to the return the legality of the detention is
challenged on a further ground. That ground would not
have entitled the relator to bring the case here by appeal.
For the only substantial question thus presented is one
of the construction of a statute. But since the case is
properly here this objection must be considered. Compare Zucht v. King, 260 U. S. 174, 176, 177.
The Immigration Act, February 5, 1917, c. 29, § 20,
39 Stat. 874, 890, provides that the deportation of aliens
"shall, at the option of the Secretary of Labor, be to the
country whence they came or to the foreign port at which
such aliens embarked for the United States." Mensevich
was ordered deported "to Poland, the country whence he
came." He insists that the warrant for deportation is
illegal, because prior to his emigration to the United
States he had been a resident of Tychny, in the Province
of Grodno, then a part of Russia; that, at the time the
warrant for deportation issued, Grodno had not been
recognized by the United States as a part of Poland; and
hence, that it should have been treated by the Secretary
of Labor as being still a part of Russia. The facts are
that, when the warrant for deportation issued and when
the judgment below was entered, Grodno was occupied
and administered by Poland; that there was then a dispute between Poland and the Soviet Republic concerning
the boundary line between them; and that the United
States, while officially recognizing Poland, had not recognized Grodno as being either within or without its
boundaries.
The term country is used in § 20 to designate, in
general terms, the state which, at the time of deportation,
includes the place from which the alien carne. Whether

PIERCE OIL CORP. v. HOPKINS.
134

Statement of the Case.

territory occupied and administered by a country, but not
officially recognized as being a part of it, is to be deemed
a part for the purposes of this section, we have no occasion
to consider. For, since the entry of the judgment below,
the Treaty of Riga has so defined the eastern boundary
of Poland as to include Grodno; and the United States
has officially recognized this boundary line. Grodno is
now confessedly a part of Poland. The validity of a
detention questioned by a petition for habeas corputs is
to be determined by the condition existing at the time of
the final decision thereon. Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S.
339, 343. Deportation to Poland is now legal.
Affirmed.
PIERCE OIL CORPORATION v. HOPKINS, COUNTY
CLERK OF SEBASTIAN COUNTY, ARKANSAS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 151.

Argued January 11, 1924.-Decided February 18, 1924.

A state law requiring retailers of gasoline to collect from purchasers
a tax of 1 per gallon upon such gasoline sold by them as they have
reason to believe the purchasers will use in motors on the highways of the State, and requiring the retailers to register, and to
report and pay over each month the taxes accruing on sales made,
under penalty of a fine, held, not violative of the retailers' rights
under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 139.
282 Fed. 253, affirmed.

from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit to enjoin enforcement of an Arkansas law
taxing gasoline.
APPEAL

Mr. Sam T. Poe, with whom Mr. Tom Poe and Mr.
Louis Tarlowski were on the brief, for appellant.

