UNITED STATES v. VALANTE.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. VALANTE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 218. Argued April 8, 1924.-Decided April 21, 1924.

Defendant, having been tried for a misdemeanor before one federal
judge and having consented to the substitution of another who
received the verdict and imposed sentence of imprisonment, sought
habeas corpus upon the ground that the substitution was contrary to the constitutional provision for trial of all crimes by jury.
Held, that the error, if any, did not go to the jurisdiction of the

court, or render the judgment void, and that review should have
been sought by writ of error. P. 564.
Reversed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court discharging
the appellee from custody, in a habeas corpus proceeding.
Mr. George Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the At-

torney General, for the United States.
Mr. Abner Siegal, for appellee, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from an order sustaining a writ of
habeas corpus and discharging Valante from custody.
He was tried in the District Court upon a criminal information charging him with misdemeanors under the
National Prohibition Act. The judge of another federal
district presided. The testimony was heard; and the jury
was charged and retired to deliberate. Not having agreed
upon a verdict by the time that the judge was to return
to his home, it was stipulated by the district attorney and
Valante's counsel that any other federal judge might receive the verdict and impose sentence, if necessary. The

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

jury later returned a verdict of "guilty ". A judge of the
district then presiding received the verdict, and, although
his authority so to do was at that time challenged, sentenced Valante to thirty days' imprisonment in the city
prison. There was no motion for a new trial or application for a writ of error. Valante was surrendered to the
marshal and delivered into the custody of the warden of
the prison for the purpose of serving the sentence. He
thereupon presented a petition for a writ of habeas corpus,
alleging that he had been illegally sentenced in violation
of his "constitutional rights and privileges" in that the
verdict was received and sentence imposed by a judge
having no jurisdiction. The writ was issued; and upon a
hearing on the petition and the return made by the
warden, the writ was sustained and Valante was discharged from custody. The United States has appealed
directly to this Court. Judicial Code, ยง 238; McCarthy
v. Arndstein, 262 U. S. 355.
Valante's contention is that the constitutional provision
that the trial of all crimes shall be by jury (Art. III, ยง 2,
cl. 3), requires the continuous presence of the same judge
throughout the trial until the final judgment, and that,
although this was a misdemeanor case, the substitution of
another judge before the verdict was received and the
sentence imposed, was not a mere irregularity which could
be waived by his consent, but a violation of the constitutional provision for a jury trial. Without intimating that
there is anything of substance in this contention, it is
clear that the error, if any was committed, did not go to
the jurisdiction of the court or render the judgment void,
but was, at the most, one which could have been corrected
on a review by writ of error. It is "the well-established
general rule that a writ of habeas corpus cannot be
utilized for the purpose of proceedings in error." Craig
v. Hecht, 263 T. S. 255, 277, and cases there cited. And
see Riddle v. Dyche, 262 U. S. 333, 335. There are no

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
Order.

563

circumstances in the present case sufficiently extraordinary to bring it within any class of "exceptional cases"
or make "the general rules of procedure" inapplicable.
Craig v. Hecht, supra, p. 277.
The writ of habeas corpus could not be used in this case
as a substitute for a writ of error. The order sustaining
the writ and discharging Valante from custody is accordingly reversed; and the cause will be remanded to the
District Court with instructions to vacate the order, discharge the writ, and remand Valante to the custody of the
warden.
Reversed and remanded.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.

No. 15, Original.

Order entered April 25, 1924.

Order that reports by commissioners, with accompanying maps,
respecting the running, etc., of the boundary line along the Big
Bend Area, and of part of the medial line in the river bed, be
received and filed, and limiting the time for objections or exceptions.

(Order announced by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT.)

The commissioners heretofore designated to run, locate
and mark upon the ground portions of the boundary line
between the States of Texas and Oklahoma, where it follows the course of the Red River, having this day presented a report, with accompanying maps, showing that
they have run, located and marked upon the ground the
portion of the boundary along the Big Bend Area, and
also a report, with accompanying map, showing that they
have surveyed, run upon the ground and platted the
medial line between such state boundary and the north-

