PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.

375

Syllabus.

PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 369. Argued December 7, 1923.--Decided April 7, 1924.
1. As a general rule, where existing legislation on a particular subject
has been systematically revised and restated in a comprehensive
general statute, such as the Judicial Code, subsequent enactments
touching that subject are to be construed and applied in harmony
with the general statute, save as they clearly manifest a different
purpose. P. 383.
2. Section 20 of the Act of March 4, 1915, as amended June 5, 1920,
which allows a seaman suffering personal injury in his employment
to sue his employer for damages, declares that "jurisdiction in such
actions shall be under the court of the district in which the defendant employer resides or in which his principal office is located."
Held, that the quoted provision (construed with Jud. Code, §§ 24
and 51,) relates only to venue, conferring a personal privilege
which a defendant may waive, if he enters a general appearance
before or without claiming it. Id.
3. Section 2 of Art. III of the Constitution, in extending the judicial
power of the United States to "all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction," by implication made the admiralty and maritime
law the law of the United States, subject to power in Congress to
alter, qualify or supplement it as experience or changing conditions
might require. P. 385.
4. This power of Congress extends to the entire subject, substantive
and procedural, and permits of the exercise of a wide discretion,
though subject to well recognized limitations, one of which is that
there are boundaries to the maritime law and admiralty jurisdiction which cannot be altered by legislation, and another, that the
enactments, when not relating to matters whose existence or influence is confined to a more limited field, shall be coextensive with
and operate uniformly in the whole of the United States. P. 386.
5. The Act of March 4, 1915, § 20, as amended, provides that any
seaman suffering personal injury in the course of his employment
may, at his election, maintain an action at law, with the right of
trial by jury, "and in such action all statutes of the United States
modifying or extending the common-law right or remedy in cases
of personal injury to railway employees shall apply."

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"

264 U. S.

Held: (a) The statute is not' objectionable as an attempted withdrawal of subject matter from the reach of the maritime law, but
is a permissible addition to that law of new rules concerning the
rights and obligations of seamen and their employers. P. 388.
(b) Congress has power to make maritime rules in relative conformity to the common law or its modifications, and to permit
enforcement of rights thereunder through proceedings in personam.
according to the course of the common law on the common law
side of the courts. Id.
(c) The statute is not to be construed as restricting enforcement of
the new rights to actions at law, (which might mean an unconstitutional encroachment on the maritime jurisdiction,) but as
allowing the injured seaman to assert his right of action under it
either on the common law side, with right of trial by jury, or on
the admiralty side, with trial to the court. P. 389.
(d) A statute may adopt the provisions of other statutes by reference. P.391.
(e)The reference in the above statute is to the Federal Employers'
Liability Act and its amendments. Id.
(f) The statute, with the legislation it incorporates by reference, has
the uniformity required of maritime enactments. P. 392.
(g) The statute does not conflict with the Fifth Amendment in
permitting injured seamen to elect between varying measures of
redress and different forms of action without according a corresponding right to their employers. Id.
289 Fed. 964, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment entered in the District Court for
the Eastern District of New York on a verdict recovered
by the plaintiff, Johnson, as damages resulting from
personal injuries sustained at sea in the course of his
employment by the defendant railroad company as a
seaman. The action was based on § 20 of the Act of
March 4, 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1185, as amended by § 33
of the Act of June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 1007.
Mr. Richard Reid Rogers for plaintiff in error.
1. The act is unconstitutional, inasmuch as it is destructive of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

courts of the United States guaranteed by § 2, Art. III,
of the Constitution.
The rights of seamen against the shipowner with respect to injuries sustained while in the service are well
settled by the maritime law. They have remained virtually unchanged since the laws of Oleron, which provide
(Art. VI) "that if a seaman in service of the ship happens to become wounded or otherwise hurt; in that case
he shall be cured and provided for at the cost and charge
of the said ship "; and (Art. VII) "that if sick he is to
be set ashore and receive wages if the ship departs." As
more specifically defined in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158,
they consist of a right to wages for the voyage and maintenance and cure, irrespective of fault on the part of the
seaman; but to indemnity only in case of unseaworthiness or negligent medical treatment. The shipowner is
not responsible for injuries to a seaman occasioned by
the negligence of members of the crew, or ship's officers.
Under the railroad law there is of course no continuing obligation to pay wages or maintain and cure the employee, irrespective of the employer's fault; but upon
the other hand the employer is responsible for the negligence of co-employees. There are other differences, as
for example, the doctrine of comparative negligence, the
non-assumption of the risk of appliances which fail to
comply with statutory requirements, and the inability of
the employer to limit his risk.
As the legal rights of the seaman under the act were
construed below, the seaman alone is given the privilege
of proceeding in admiralty for maintenance and cure
if his case be one which would not justify a recovery
under the railroad law, or upon the other hand, if his
case be one which would not justify a recovery outside
of maintenance and cure under the maritime law, of suing
for full indemnity under the common law as modified by

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

the railroad law; as, to illustrate, where his injuries are
due to the negligence of a co-employee. In other words,
one party to a maritime contract or arrangement is given
the right under the act in question of taking his case
wholly from the jurisdiction and principles of the maritime law, and of transferring it to the jurisdiction of a
common law court there to be decided under the principles of common law as modified or extended in the
irrelevant field of railroad legislation.
But conceding that Congress may amend the maritime
law by modifying the principle of The Osceola to the extent of holding the shipowner responsible for.injuries
received by one seaman through the negligence of another, nevertheless, in such a case it would be the maritime law itself, that was modified or amended. Under
this act, however, the maritime law is not directly
amended, but a cause of action essentially maritime in
its nature is bodily removed, or, at the election of one of
the parties, may be removed, to a common law court,
there to be decided, not according to maritime principles,
but according to the very different common law principles, as modified or extended, in the case of personal
injuries to railway employees.
If Congress can take a cause of action essentially maritime and provide that it shall no longer be dealt with
according to the principles of maritime law, but according
to the principles of the common law, it could in the end
destroy the entire constitutional jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States over maritime causes of action.
If Congress can authorize one party to remove his cause
from the jurisdiction and principles of the maritime law,
and have it treated according to the conflicting principles
and rights of the common law, it could undoubtedly
do the same thing directly without extending an election
to the litigant. In other words, Congress could provide
that in all cases of injuries sustained by seamen, such

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

379

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cause of action should thereafter be tried in common law
courts, according to common law principles, and there
is no reason why it could not further provide that such
causes could be tried according to common law principles
in the courts of the several States. New .Jersey Steam
ANav. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 377.
Heretofore under the saving clause of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, now Jud. Code, § 256, maritime rights could be
prosecuted in common law courts where the common law
gave an adequate remedy, but once there the litigant's
rights would still be adjudicated according to the principles of the maritime law, Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co.,
247 U. S. 372; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253
U. S. 149; but under this act a common law procedure
is not only authorized, but maritime rights are disregarded, and the very opposite common law rights or statutory modifications thereof, substituted in their place.
The Constitution is sufficiently broad to prevent the destruction in whole or in part of the maritime law and the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States with respect
thereto. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 522; Butler v. Boston & Savannah S. S.
Co., 130 U. S. 527; The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361.
The constitutional jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States in marithfne matters is exclusive. The
Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411; Martin v. Hunter's Lessee,
1 Wheat. 304; Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130; Stevenson v. Fain, 195 U. S. 165; Farrellv. Waterman S. S.
Co., 291 Fed. 604; Butler v. Boston & Savannah S. S.
Co., 130 U. S. 527; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S.
372; Hanrahanv. Pacific Transport Co., 262 Fed. 951.
The difference between the creation of a right and the
exercise of a common law remedy under the saving clause
is well set forth in Sudden & Christensor v. Industrial
Accident Comm., 182 Cal. 437.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

264 U. S.

The argument against the statute is based not upon the
lack of power of Congress to amend, the maritime law,
nor upon its lack of power to authorize a maritime right
to be prosecuted in the common law courts, state or federal, but upon the right of Congress under the Constitution to destroy the substantive maritime law by substituting therefor the entirely distinct code of common law.
If the act be valid, it may be truly said that the judicial power of the United States no longer extends to all
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, inasmuch
as Congress has put it into the power of a seaman in a
cause of action purely maritime in its nature, to take the
case from out the jurisdiction of that law-the substantive law regulating his rights-and have it tried according to the principles of an entirely different system of
law, in no sense maritime, and where the rights are quite
diverse. State courts have assumed jurisdiction of seamen's actions brought under the act, Lynott v. Great
Lakes Trans. Co., 202 App. Div. 613; 234 N. Y. 626.
II. The act is in conflict with the Fifth Amendment.
The arbitrary and irrational discrimination carried by
this law is apparent upon its face. If a privilege is to be
given the plaintiff to try his cause of action under either
one of two diverse systems of law, where not only the
remedies but the rights are different, no sound reasoning
can be advanced why a similar privilege should not be
extended to the defendant. The law is confined to seamen alone, and does not protect any other class of employees engaged in the service of the ship, as, for example,
stevedores.
III. The act is so vague and uncertain as not to constitute due process of law. Notwithstanding that the
maritime law of the Constitution is universally recognized
as an independent code with rights and remedies peculiar
to itself, that law must now fluctuate accordingly as Congress may hereafter legislate with respect to employers

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and employees in the entirely alien field of railroad employment. From now on, whenever Congress legislates
upon that subject, it will unconsciously modify the marithne code as well. There is nothing in the act which
limits the railroad legislation which affects the rights of
seamen to the railroad legislation in force when the act
was enacted.
This is the first case, so far as we have been able to
ascertain, which has ever arisen, where Congress has
endeavored to legislate concerning a fundamental constitutional power, or indeed upon any other subject, by the
vague and confusing method of adopting in solido the
general law relating to an entirely separate branch of
jurisprudence. Binghamton Bridge Case, 3 Wall. 51, distinguished.
The act says that "all" statutes of the United States
modifying or extending the common law right or remedy
in cases of personal injury to railway employees shall
apply. But the Safety Appliance Act, the Boiler Inspection Act, and the Hours of Service Act are statutes affecting the rights of railroad employers and their employees,
and the language of this act is certainly broad enough to
make all of these apply in the case where a seaman has
sustained injury. Many of the provisions of these acts
could have no conceivable application to the case of seamen, but what does or does not apply must remain at the
present time a matter of doubt, and neither the seaman
nor the shipowner has any longer before him a definite
standard of legal duty or liability. Perhaps an even
greater confusion will grow out of the application of the
law of limited liability.
It is a general rule of constitutional law that an act
which is so indefinite as to prescribe an obligation and
set up no standard by which such obligation can be
measured by court or jury, is invalid. United States v.
Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81; StandardCorp. v. Wauqh

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

Corp., 231 N. Y. 51; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Tennessee, 19 Fed. 679; Cook v. State, 26 Ind. 278; Succession of Pizzali, 141 La. 647.
IV. The District Court which tried the case-was without jurisdiction.
V. The evidence did not establish legal negligence upon
the part of the defendant, and the jury should have been
instructed to find a verdict for the defendant.
VI. The court erred in charging the jury upon the
assumption of risk.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, with whom Mr. Silas Blake Axtell
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mr. John M. Woolsey and Mr. Vernon S. Jones, bY
leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JusrIcE VAN DEvANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was an action by a seaman against his employer,
the owner of the ship on which he was serving, to recover
damages for personal injuries suffered at sea while he
was ascending a ladder from the deck to the bridge in
the course of his employment,-the complaint charging
that the injuries resulted from negligence of the employer in providing an inadequate ladder and negligence
of the ship's officers in permitting a canvas dodger to
be stretched and insecurely fastened across the top of the
ladder and in ordering the seaman to go up the ladder.
The employer was a New York corporation. The ship
was a domestic merchant vessel which at the time of the
injuries was returning from an Ecuadorian port. The
action was brought on the common-law side of a District
Court of the United States, and the right of recovery
was based expressly on § 20 of the Act of March 4, 1915,
c. 153, 38 Stat. 1185, as amended by § 33 of the Act of
June 5, 1920, c. 250, 41 Stat. 1007, which reads as follows:

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

Opinion of the Court.

"See. 20. That any seaman who shall suffer personal
injury in the course of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, with the
right of trial by jury, and in such action all statutes of
the United States modifying or extending the commonlaw right or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway employees shall apply; and in case of the death of
any seaman as a result of any such personal injury the
personal representative of such seaman may maintain an
action for damages at law with the right of trial by jury,
and in such action all statutes of the United States conferring or regulating the right of action for death in the
case of railway employees shall be applicable. Jurisdiction in such actions shall be under the court of the district
in which the defendant employer resides or in which
his principal office is located."
The defendant unsuccessfully demurred to the complaint and then answered. The issues were tried to the
court and a jury; a verdict for the plaintiff was returned,
and a judgment was entered thereon, which the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 289 Fed. 964. The defendant
prosecutes this writ of error.
1. Apparently the action was not brought in the district
of the defendant's residence or principal office as provided
in the act; and on this ground the defendant objected
that the District Court could not entertain it. The objection was not made at the outset on a special appearance,
but after the defendant had appeared generally and demurred to the complaint. The court thought the objection went to the venue only and was waived by the general appearance; so the objection was overruled. 277
Fed. 859. Error is assigned on the ruling; but we think
it was right.
The case arose under a law of the United States and
involved the requisite amount, if any was requisite;I so
'See the first and third subdivisions of § 24 of the Judicial Code.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

there can be no doubt that the case was within the general jurisdiction conferred on the District Courts by
§ 24 of the Judicial Code, unless, as the defendant contends, it was excluded by the concluding provision of the
act, which says: "Jurisdiction of such actions shall be
under the court of the district in which the defendant
employer resides or in which his principal office is located."
Although not happily worded, the provision, taken alone,
gives color to the contention. But as a general rule, where
existing legislation on a particular subject has been systematically revised and restated in a comprehensive general statute, such as the Judicial Code, subsequent enactments touching that subject are to be construed and
applied in harmony with the general statute, save as
they clearly manifest a different purpose. An intention
to depart from a course or policy thus deliberately settled
is not lightly to be assumed. See United States v. Barnes,
222 U. S. 513, 520; United States v. Sweet, 245 U. S.
563, 572. The rule is specially pertinent here. Beginning
with the Judiciary Act of 1789, Congress has pursued
the policy of investing the federal courts-at first the
Circuit Courts, and later the District Courts--with a
general jurisdiction expressed in terms applicable alike
to all of them and of regulating the venue by separate
provisions designating the particular district in which a
defendant shall be sued, such as the district of which he
is an inhabitant or in which he has a place of business,the purpose of the venue provisions being to prevent
defendants from being compelled to answer and defend
in remote districts against their will. This policy was
carried into the Judicial Code, and is shown in §§ 24 and
51, one embodying general jurisdictional provisions applicable to rights under subsequent laws as well as laws then
existing, and the other containing particular venue provisions. A reading of the provision now before us with
those sections, and in the light of the policy carried into

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

Opinion of the Court.

them, makes it reasonably certain that the provision is
not intended to affect the general jurisdiction of the District Courts as defined in § 24, but only to prescribe the
venue for actions brought under the new act of which
it is a part. No reason why it should have a different
purpose has been suggested, nor do we perceive any. Its
use of the word " jurisdiction" seems inapt, and therefore
not of special significance. The words "shall be" are
stressed by the defendant, but as they are found also in
the earlier provisions which uniformly have been held
to relate to venue only, they afford no ground for a distinction.
By a long line of decisions, recently reaffirmed, it is settled that such a provision merely confers on the defendant
a personal privilege which he may assert, or may waive,
at his election, and does waive if, when sued in some other
district, he enters a general appearance before or without
claiming his privilege. InteriorConstruction & Improvement Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; United States v.
Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1, 11; General Investment Co. v. Lake
Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 272,
275; Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 653,
655.
2. The defendant objects that the statute whereon the
2
plaintiff based his right of action is in conflict with
of Article III of the Constitution, which extends the judicial power of the United States to "all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction." Before coming to the particular grounds of the objection, it will be helpful to refer
briefly to the purpose and scope of the constitutional provision as reflected in prior decisions.
As there could be no cases of "admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction " in the absence of some maritime law under
which they could arise, the provision presupposes the
existence in the United States of a law of that character.
Such a law or system of law existed in Colonial times and
978,51 *-24---25

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

during the Confederation and commonly was applied in
the adjudication of admiralty and maritime cases. It
embodied the principles of the general maritime law,
sometimes called the law of the sea, with modifications
and supplements adjusting it to conditions and needs on
this side of the Atlantic. The framers of the Constitution were familiar with that system and proceeded with
it in mind. Their purpose was not to strike down or abrogate the system, but to place the entire subject-its
substantive as well as its procedural features-under national control because of its intimate relation to navigation and to interstate and foreign commerce. In pursuance of that purpose the constitutional provision was
framed and adopted. Although containing no express
grant of legislative power over the substantive law, the
provision was regarded from the beginning as implicitly
investing such power in the United States. Commentators took that view; Congress acted on it, and the courts,
including this Court, gave effect to it. Practically therefore the situation is as if that view were written into the
provision. After the Constitution went into effect, the
substantive law theretofore in force was not regarded as
superseded or as being only the law of the several States,
but as having become the law of the United States,subject to power in Congress to alter, qualify or supplement it as experience or changing conditions might require. When all is considered, therefore, there is no room
to doubt that the power of Congress extends to the entire
subject and permits of the exercise of a wide discretion.
But there are limitations which have come to be well
recognized. One is that there are boundaries to the maritime law and admiralty jurisdiction which inhere in those
subjects and cannot be altered by legislation, as by excluding a thing falling clearly within them or including
a thing falling clearly without. Another is that the spirit
and purpose of the constitutional provision require that

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

Opinion of the Court.

the enactments,-when not relating to matters whose existence or influence is confined to a. more restricted field.
as in Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319,shall be coextensive with and operate uniformly in the
whole of the United States. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How.
441, 457; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 574, 577; Butler
v. Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, 556, 557;
In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 12; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 215; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 164; Washington v. Dawson &
Co., ante, 219; 2 Story Const., 5th ed., §§ 1663, 1664, 1672.
In this connection it is well to recall that the Constitution, by § 1 of Article III, declares that the judicial power
of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme
Court "and in such inferior courts as the Congress may
from time to time ordain and establish," and, by § 8 of
Article I, empowers the Congress to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the several powers vested in the government of the United
States. Mention should also be made of the enactment
by the first Congress, now embodied in §§ 24 and 256
of the Judicial Code, whereby the District Courts are
given exclusive original jurisdiction "of all civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, saving to suitors
in all cases the right of a. common-law remedy where the
connon law is competent to give it."
The particular grounds on which a conflict with 2 of
Article III is asserted are that the statute enables a seaman asserting a cause of action essentially maritime to
withdraw it from the reach of the maritime law and the
admiralty jurisdiction, and to have it determined according to the principles of a different system applicable to a
distinct and irrelevant field, and also disregards the
restriction in respect of uniformity. For reasons which
will be stated we think neither ground can be sustained.
The statute is concerned with the relative rights and
obligations of seamen and their employers arising out of

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

personal injuries sustained by the former in the course of
their employment. Without question this is a matter
which falls within the recognized sphere of the maritime
law, and in respect of which the maritime rules have differed materially from those of the common law applicable
to injuries sustained by employees in nonmaritime service. But, as Congress is empowered by the constitutional
provision to alter, qualify or supplement the maritime
rules, there is no reason why it may not bring them into
relative conformity to the common-law rules or some
modification of the latter, if the change be country-wide
and uniform in operation. Not only so, but the constitutional provision interposes no obstacle to permitting
rights founded on the maritime law or an admissible
modification of it to be enforced as such through appropriate actions on the common-law side of the courts,that is to say, through proceedings in personam according to the course of the common law. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 384; Knickerbocker Ice
Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 159. This was permissible
before the Constitution, and it is still permissible. Judicial Code, §§ 24 and 256; Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441,
460; New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344, 390; Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 185,
188, 191; Schoonmaker v. Gilmore, 102 U. S. 118; Knapp,
Stout & Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 638, 646; Carlisle
Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255, 259; Red Cros3
Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., ante, 109.
Rightly understood the statute neither withdraws injuries to seamen from the reach and operation of the maritime law, nor enables the seaman to do so. On the
contrary, it brings into that law new rules drawn from
another system and extends to injured seamen a right to
invoke, at their election, either the relief accorded by the
old rules or that provided by the new rules. The election
is between alternatives accorded by the maritime law as

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
375

Opinion of the Court.

modified, and not between that law and some nonmaritime system.
The source from which the new rules are drawn contributes nothing to their force in the field to which they
are translated. In that field their strength and operation come altogether from their inclusion in the maritime
law. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union
Telegraph, Co., 237 U. S. 300, 303. True, they are not
in so many words made part of that law; but an express
declaration is not essential to make them such. As originally enacted, § 20 was part of an act the declared purpose of which was "to promote the welfare of American
seamen." It then provided that in suits to recover damages for personal injuries "seamen having command shall
not be held to be fellow-servants with those under their
authority," and in Chelen tis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co.,
supra, p. 384, this Court treated it as part of the maritime
law, but held it did not disclose a purpose "to impose
upon shipowners the same measure of liability for injuries suffered by the crew while at sea as the common law
prescribes for employers in respect of their employees on
shore." After that decision the section was reinacted in
the amended form hereinbefore set forth as part of an
act the expressed object of which was "to provide for the
promotion and maintenance of the American merchant
marine." In that form it makes applicable to personal
injuries suffered by seamen in the course of their employment "all statutes of the United States modifying or
extending the common-law right or remedy in cases of
personal injury to railway employees." Thus its origin,
environment and subject-matter show that it is intended
to, and does, bring the rules to which it refers into the
maritime law.
But it is insisted that, even if the statute brings those
rules into that law, it is still invalid in that it restricts the
enforcement of rights founded on them to actions at law,

OCTOBER TERM, 193.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

and thereby encroaches on the admiralty jurisdiction
intended by the Constitution. It must be conceded that
the construction thus sought to be put on the statute finds
support in some of its words, and also that if it be so construed a grave question will arise respecting its constitutional validity. But, as this Court often has held, "a
statute must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to
avoid not only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional
but also grave doubts upon that score." United States v.
.JinFuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401; United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407-408; Baender v.
Barnett, 255 U. S. 224. The question arises, therefore,
whether the statute is fairly open to such a construction.
There may be room for diverging opinions about the answer, but we think the better view is that it should be
in the affirmative.
The course of legislation, as exemplified in § 9 of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, §§ 563 (par. 8) and 711 (par. 3)
of the Revised Statutes, and §§ 24 (par. 3) and 256 (par.
3) of the Judicial Code, always has been to recognize the
admiralty jurisdiction as open to the adjudication of all
maritime cases as a matter of course, and to permit a
resort to common-law remedies through appropriate proceedings in personam as a matter of admissible grace. It
therefore is reasonable to believe that, had Congress intended by this statute to withdraw rights of action
founded on the new rules from the admiralty jurisdiction
and to make them cognizable only on the common-law
side of the courts, it would have expressed that intention in terms befitting such a pronounced departure,that is to say, in terms unmistakably manifesting a purpose to make the resort to common-law remedies compulsory, and not merely permissible. But this was not
done. On the contrary, the terms of- the statute in this
regard are not imperative but permissive. It says "may
maintain " an action at law "with the right of trial by

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
:375

Opinion of the Court.

jury," the import of which is that the injured seaman is
permitted, but not required, to proceed on the conmmon
law side of the court with a trial by jury as an incident.
The words "in such action" in the succeeding clause are
all that are troublesome. But we do not regard them
as meaning that the seaman may have the benefit of the
new rules if he sues on the law side of the court, but not
if he sues on the admiralty side. Such a distinction
would be so unreasonable that we are unwilling to attribute to Congress a purpose to make it. A more reasonable
view, consistent with the spirit and purpose of the
statute as a whole, is that the words are used in the sense
of "an action to recover damages for such injuries,"
the emphasis being on the object of the suit rather than
the jurisdiction in which it is brought. So we think the
reference is to all actions brought to recover compensatory damages under the new rules as distinguished
from the alowances covered by the old rules, usually
consisting of wages and the expense of maintenance and
cure. See The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158; The Iroquois, 194
U. S. 240; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372.
In this view the statute leaves the injured seaman free
under the general law-§§ 24 (par. 3) and 256 (par. 3)
of the Judicial Code-to assert his right of action under
the new rules on the admiralty side of the court. On that
side the issues will be tried by the court, but if he sues
on the common-law side there will be a right of trial by
jury. So construed, the statute does not encroach on the
admiralty jurisdiction intended by the Constitution, but
permits that jurisdiction to be invoked and exercised as it
has been from the beginning.
Criticism is made of the statute because it does not set
forth the new rules but merely adopts them by a generic
reference. But the criticism is without merit. The reference, as is readily understood, is to the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65. and its

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

amendments. This is a recognized mode of incorporating
one statute or system of statutes into another, and serves
to bring into the latter all that is fairly covered by the
reference. Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524, 625;
In re Heath, 144 U. S. 92; Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S.
466, 477; Interstate Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S.
79, 84.
The asserted departure from the restriction respecting
uniformity in operation is without any basis. The statute
extends territorially as far as Congress can make it go,
and there is nothing in it to cause its operation to be
otherwise than uniform. The national legislation respecting injuries to railway employees engaged in interstate
and foreign commerce which it adopts has a uniform
operation, and neither is nor can be deflected therefrom
by local statutes or local views of common law rules.
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51, 55;
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368,
378. Of course that legislation will have a like operation
as part of this statute.
A further objection urged against the statute is that it
conflicts with the due process of law clause of the Fifth
Amendment in that it permits injured seamen to elect between varying measures of redress and between different
forms of action without according a corresponding right
to their employers, and therefore is unreasonably discriminatory and purely arbitrary. The complaint is not
directed against either measure of redress or either form
of action but only against the right of election as given.
Of course the objection must fail. There are many instances in the law where a person entitled to sue may
choose between alternative measures of redress and modes
of enforcement; and this has been true since before the
Constitution. But it never has been held, nor thought
so far as we are advised, that to permit such a choice between alternatives otherwise admissible is a violation

LA. PUB. SERV. COMM. v. MORGAN'S CO. 393
375

Syllabus.

of due process of law. In the nature of things, the right
to choose cannot be accorded to both parties, and, if
accorded to either, should rest with the one seeking
redress rather than the one from whom redress is sought.
At the trial the defendant requested a directed verdict
in its favor on the ground that no actionable negligence
was shown, but the request was denied. Although approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the ruling is
complained of here. In view of the concurring action
of the two courts, we deem it enough to say that the
record discloses sufficient evidence of negligence to warrant its submission to the jury.
The defendant also complains that two requests which
it preferred on the subject of assumption of risk were
denied. The requests were so framed that, considering
the state of the evidence, they would not have conveyed
a right understanding of the subject and might well
have proved misleading. Their refusal was not error.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND did not hear the argument
or participate in the decision.

LOUISIANA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION,
ET AL. v. MORGAN'S LOUISIANA & TEXAS
RAILROAD & STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 421.

Argued March 5, 6, 1924.-Decided April 7, 1924.

1. Under the Louisiana Constitution of 1921, Art. XIV, § 22, the
general control of its own streets is an ordinary governmental
function of the City of New Orleans. P. 399.
2. The Louisiana Constitution of 1921 did not invest the State
Public Service Commission with such control over streets within

