292

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

264 U. S.

RADICE v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO THE CITY COURT OF BUFFALO, STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 176.

Argued January 17, 1S, 1924.-Decided March 10, 1924.

1. A New York statute prohibiting employment of women in restaurants in large cities (cities of the first and second class) between the
hours of 10 p. m. and 6 a. m., held not an arbitrary and undue
interference with the liberty of contract of the women and their
employers, but justifiable as a health measure. P. 294. Adkins v.
Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, distinguished.
2. Whether this kind of work is so substantially and especially detrimental to the health and welfare of women engaging in it as to
justify its suppression in their case, is a question of fact as to
which the Court is unable to say that the finding of the legislature
was clearly unfounded. Id.
;. The regulation does not deny the equal protection of the laws
either (a) because it applies only to first and second class cities,
or (b) because it does not apply to women employed in restaurants as singers and performers, to attendants in ladies' cloak
rooms and parlors and those employed in hotel dining rooms and
kitchens, or in lunch rooms or restaurants conducted by employers
solely for the benefit of their employees. P. 296.
4. To be violative of the Equal Protection Clause, the inequality
produced by a statute must be actually and palpably unreasonable
and arbitrary. Id.
234 N. Y. 518, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment entered in the City Court of
Buffalo upon remittitur from the Court of Appeals affirming a conviction of plaintiff in error for violating a statute
forbidding night employment of women.
Mr. Henry 1W. Hill, with whom Mr. Dean R. Hill was on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter F. Hofheins and Mr. Irving I. Goldsmith,
Deputy Attorney General of the State of New York, with

RADICE v. NEW YORK.
292

Opinion of the Court.

whom Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General, and Mr. Johii
A. Van Arsdale were on the briefs, for defendant in error.

MIR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error was convicted in the City Court of
Buffalo upon the charge of having violated the provisions
of a statute of the State of New York, prohibiting the
employment of women in restaurants in cities of the first
and second class, between the hours of 10 o'clock at night
and 6 o'clock in the morning. Laws of New York, 1917.
c. 535, p. 1564.'
An appeal was prosecuted through intermediate appellate courts to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment
was affirmed without an opinion. The record having
been remitted to the City Court, the writ of error was
allowed to that court. Aldrich v. XEtMa Co., 8 Wall. 491.
495; Hodges v. Snyder, 261 U. S. 600, 601.
The validity of the statute is challenged upon the
ground that it contravenes the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it violates (1) the clue proce
clause, by depriving the employer and employee of their
liberty of contract, and (2) the equal protection clause.
by an unreasonable and arbitrary classification.
1. The basis of the first contention is that the statute
unduly and arbitrarily interferes with the liberty of two
3. In cities of the first and second class no female over the oge
of sixteen years shall be employed, permitted or suffered to work in
or in connection with any restaurant more than six days or fifty-four
hours in any one week, or more than nine hours in any one day, or
before six o'clock in the morning or after ten o'clock in the evening
of any day. This subdivision shall, however, not apply to females
employed in restaurants as singers and performers of any kind, or
as attendants in ladies' cloak rooms and parlors, nor shall it apply
to females employed in or in connection with the dining rooms and
kitchens of hotels, or in or in connection with lunch rooms or restaurants conducted by employers solely for the benefit of their own
employees."

OCTOBER TERM. 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

adult persons to make a contract of employment for themselves. The answer of the State is that night work of
the kind prohibited, so injuriously affects the physical
condition of women, and so threatens to impair their
peculiar and natural functions, and so exposes them to
the dangers and menaces incident to night life in large
cities, that a statute prohibiting such work falls within
the police power of the State to preserve and promote the
public health and welfare.
The legislature had before it a mass of information
from which it concluded that night work is substantially
and especially detrimental to the health of women. We
cannot say that the conclusion is without warrant. The
loss of restful night's sleep can not be fully made up by
sleep in the day time, especially in busy cities, subject to
the disturbances incident to modern life. The injurious
consequences were thought by the legislature to bear more
heavily against women than men, and, considering their
more delicate organism, there would seem to be good
reason for so thinking. The fact, assuming it to be such,
properly may be made the basis of legislation applicable
only to women. Testimony was given upon the trial to
the effect that the night work in question was not harmful; but we do not find it convincing. Where the constitutional validity of a statute depends upon the existence
of facts, courts must be cautious about reaching a conclusion respecting them contrary to that reached by the
legislature; and if the question of what the facts establish
be a fairly debatable one, it is not permissible for the
judge to set up his opinion in respect of it against the
opinion of the lawmaker. The state legislature here determined that night employment of the character specified, was sufficiently detrimental to the health and welfare
of women engaging in it to justify its suppression; and,
since we are unable to say that the finding is clearly
unfounded, we are precluded from reviewing the legisla-

RADICE v. NEW YORK.
292

Opinion of the Court.

tive determination. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 395.
The language used by this Court in Muller v. Oregon,
208 U. S. 412, 422, in respect of the physical limitations
of women, is applicable and controlling:
"The limitations which this statute places upon her
contractual powers, upon her right to agree with her
employer as to the time she shall labor, are not imposed
solely for her benefit, but also largely for the benefit of
all. Many words cannot make this plainer. The two
sexes differ in structure of body, in the functions to be
performed by each, in the amount of physical strength,
in the capacity for long-continued labor, particularly
when done standing, the influence of vigorous health upon
the future well-being of the race, the self-reliance which
enables one to assert full rights, and in the capacity to
maintain the struggle for subsistence. This difference
justifies a difference in legislation and upholds that which
is designed to compensate for some of the burdens which
rest upon her."
Adkins v. Children'sHospital,261 U. S. 525, is cited and
relied upon; but that case presented a question entirely
different from that now being considered. The statute in
the Adkins Case was a wage-fixing law, pure and simple.
It had nothing to do with the hours or conditions of labor.
We held that it exacted from the employer "an arbitrary
payment for a purpose and upon a basis having no causal
connection with his business, or the contract or the work"
of the employee; but, referring to the Muller Case, we
said (p. 553) that "the physical differences [between men
and women] must be recognized in appropriate cases, and
legislation fixing hours or conditions of work may properly
take them into account." See also Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671; Miller v. WTilson, 236 U. S. 373;
Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385; and compare Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 41, and Coppage v. Kansas, 236
U. S. 1, 18-19.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

264 U. S.

2. Nor is the statute vulnerable to the objection that
it constitutes a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The points urged under this head are (a) that the act discriminates between cities of the first and second class and
other cities and communities; and (b) excludes from its
operation women employed in restaurants as singers and
performers, attendants in ladies' cloak rooms and parlors,
as well as those employed in dining rooms and kitchens of
hotels and in lunch rooms or restaurants conducted by
employers solely for the benefit of their employees.
The limitation of the legislative prohibition to cities of
the first and second class does not bring about an unreasonable and arbitrary classification. Packard v. Banton,
ante, 140; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68. Norris there
substance in the contention that the exclusion of restaurant employees of a special kind, and of hotels and employees' lunch rooms, renders the statute obnoxious to the
Constitution. The statute does not present a case where
some persons of a class are selected for special restraint
from which others of the same class are left free (Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 564); but a case
where all in the same class of work, are included in the
restraint. Of course, the mere fact of classification is not
enough to put a statute beyond the reach of the equality
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment. Such classification must not be "purely arbitrary, oppressive or capricious." American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,
179 U. S. 89, 92. But the mere production of inequality
is not enough. Every selection of persons for regulation
so results, in some degree. The inequality produced, in
order to encounter the challenge of the Constitution, must
be "actually and palpably unreasonable and arbitrary."
Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 261
U. S. 379, 384, and cases cited. Thus classifications have
been sustained which are based upon differences between
fire insurance and other kinds of insurance, Orient Insur-

RADICE v. NEW YORK.
292

297

Opinion of the Court.

ance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.557, 562; between railroads
and other corporations, Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co., 175 U. S. 348, 351; between barber shop employment and other kinds of labor, Petit v. Minnesota,
177 U. S.164, 168; between "immigrant agents" engaged
in hiring laborers to be employed beyond the limits of
a State and persons engaged in the business of hiring for
labor within the State, Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.270,
275; between sugar refiners who produce the sugar and
those who purchase it, American Sugar Refining Co. v.
Louisiana, supra. More directly applicable are recent
decisions of this Court sustaining hours of labor for
women in hotels but omitting women employees of
boarding houses, lodging houses, etc., Miller v. Wilson,
supra, at p. 382; and limiting the hours of labor of
women pharmacists and student nurses in hospitals but
excepting graduate nurses. Bosley v. McLaughlin, supra,
at pp. 394-396. The opinion in the first of these cases
was delivered by Mr. Justice Hughes, who, after pointing
out that in hotels women employees are for the most part
chambermaids and'waitresses; that it cannot be said that
the conditions of work are the same as those which obtain
in the other establishments; and that it is not beyond
the power of the legislature to recognize the differences,
said (pp. 383-384):
"The contention as to the various omissions which are
noted in the objections here urged ignores the well-established principle that the legislature is not bound, in order
to support the constitutional validity of its regulation, to
extend it to all cases which it might possibly reach. Dealing with practical exigencies, the legislature may be guided
by experience. Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138,
144. It is free to recognize degrees of harm, and it may
confine its restrictions to those classes of cases where the
need is deemed to be clearest. As has been said, it may
'proceed cautiously, step by step,' and 'if an evil is

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

264 U. S.

specially experienced in a particular branch of business'
it is not necessary that the prohibition ' should be couched
in all-embracing terms.' Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance
Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411. If the law presumably hits the
evil where it is most felt, it is not to be overthrown because there are other instances to which it might have
been applied. Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224,
227. Upon this principle which has had abundant illustration in the decisions cited below, it cannot be concluded that the failure to extend the act to other and distinct lines of business, having their own circumstances and
conditions, or to domestic service, created an arbitrary
discrimination as against the proprietors of hotels."
The judgment below is
Affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. AMERICAN
TOBACCO COMPANY.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. P. LORILLARD
COMPANY, INC.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 206 and 207.

Argued March 7, 1924.-Decided March 17, 1924.

1. The clause of the Federal Trade Commission Act, ยง 6(d), empowering the commission to investigate and report facts as to alleged
violation of the Anti-Trust Acts when directed by either house of
Congress, will not support its demand for disclosure of the records
of a corporation in an investigation directed by the Senate not
based on such an alleged violation. P. 305.
2. The mere facts of carrying on commerce not confined within state
lines and of being organized as a corporation do not make men's
affairs public. Id.
3. A governmental fishing expedition into the papers of a private
corporation, on the possibility that they may disclose evidence of
crime, is so contrary to first principles of justice, if not defiant of

