96

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 381.

Argued March 27, 28, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.

1. Under the Government construction contract here involved, the
Government was not entitled to recover liquidated damages for delay in completion, where, though subsequently to the specified completion date, the Government terminated the contractor's right to
proceed. P. 100.
2. A Government construction contract may validly provide for liquidated damages in limited situations only. Act of June 6, 1902, § 21.
P. 101.
136 F. 2d 437, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 729, to review a judgment which
reversed in part a judgment for the United States in a suit
upon a construction contract, 44 F. Supp. 871.

Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. W.
Marvin Smith and Hubert H. Margolies were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. Homer Cummings, with whom Messrs. Carl McFarland and Sterling M. Wood were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On June 24, 1931, one John V. Grogan entered into a
contract 1 with the United States to construct certain public buildings at the United States Inspection Station at
I The form of contract used was U. S. Standard Form No. 23 construction contract, approved by the President on November 19, 1926,
and used between 1926 and 1935.

U. S. v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
96

Opinion of the Court.

Babb-Piegan, Montana. Respondent became the surety
on Grogan's performance bond to the United States. The
completion date of the contract was March 4, 1932, but
this was extended to June 20, 1933. Grogan failed to
complete the work by the extended date. The Government, however, allowed him to continue with the construction. On July 20, 1934, thirteen months later, the
work was still uncompleted. Pursuant to its authority
under Article 9 of the construction contract, the Government thereupon terminated Grogan's right to proceed with
the work because of his continuing default. The Government finished the work through another contractor, expending $2,044.04 more than it would have been required
to expend had Grogan completed the work.
The United States brought this suit in the District
Court to recover the excess cost and also to recover liquidated damages of $9,875 for the delay occasioned by
Grogan's default. The liquidated damages were computed on the basis of an agreed $25 per day for the 395
days between June 20, 1933, the extended date for completion, and July 20, 1934, when the contract right to proceed was terminated. Grogan was not served and never
appeared. The District Court denied respondent's motion to strike from the complaint the paragraph alleging
a right to liquidated damages. United States v. Grogan,
39 F. Supp. 819. The court subsequently rendered judgment, after trial without a jury, for the United States for
$2,044.04 as excess cost of completion and $9,875 as liquidated damages for delay. See United States v. Grogan,
44 F. Supp. 871. On appeal, the court below affirmed the
judgment as to the excess cost but reversed as to the liquidated damages. American Surety Co. v. United States,
136 F. 2d 437. The public importance of the issue of the
Government's right to liquidated damages under these
circumstances led us to grant certiorari. 320 U. S. 729.

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

Section 21 of the Act of June 6, 1902,1 provides that all
contracts for the construction of any public building under
the control of the Treasury Department shall contain a
stipulation calling for liquidated damages for delay in
completion of the work and that such stipulation shall be
conclusive and binding upon all parties. Proof of actual
damages is rendered unnecessary. This statute, however,
does not purport to require liquidated damages to be paid
in amounts or under circumstances beyond those stipulated by the parties. Robinson v. United States, 261 U. S.
486, 488. It was pursuant to this statutory command
that Article 9 of the construction contract in issue was inserted. Thus this article is determinative of the Government's right to liquidated damages under the circumstances of this case.
Article 9, set out in the margin,' provides in effect that:
(1) if the contractor refuses or fails to prosecute the work
2 C. 1036, 32 Stat. 310, 326; 40 U. S. C. § 269.
This provides: "In
all contracts entered into with the United States for the construction
or repair of any public building or public work under the control of
the Treasury Department, a stipulation shall be inserted for liquidated
damages for delay; and the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized
and empowered to remit the whole or any part of such damages as in
his discretion may be just and equitable; and in all suits hereafter
commenced on any such contracts or on any bond given in connection
therewith it shall not be necessary for the United States, whether
plaintiff or defendant, to prove actual or specific damages sustained
by the Government by reason of delays, but such stipulation for liquidated damages shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties." See
H. Rep. No. 1794, p. 8 (57th Cong., 1st Sess.); 35 Cong. Rec. 4935.
8 "Delays-Damages.-Ifthe contractor refuses or fails to prosecute
the work, or any separable part thereof, with such diligence as will insure its completion within the time specified in Article 1, or any extension thereof, or fails to complete said work within such time, the
Government may, by written notice to the contractor, terminate his
right to proceed with the work or such part of the work as to which
there has been delay. In such event, the Government may take over

V. S. v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
96

Opinion of the Court.

with proper diligence or to complete his work within the
specified time, the Government may at any time terminate
his right to proceed and prosecute the same to completion
by contract or otherwise, in which case the Government
may recover from the contractor or his surety any excess
cost occasioned thereby; (2) "if the Government does not
terminate the right of the contractor to proceed, the contractor shall continue the work, in which event the actual
damages for the delay will be impossible to determine and
in lieu thereof the contractor shall pay to the Government
as fixed, agreed, and liquidated damages for each calendar
day of delay until the work is completed or accepted the
amount as set forth in the specifications." In this instance, paragraph 5 of the accompanying specifications provides that "the contractor shall pay to the government the
amount of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) as fixed, agreed,
and liquidated damages for each calendar day's delay in
the completion of the contract." This paragraph merely
provides the agreed rate of the per diem liquidated damages to be paid in the situations contemplated by Article 9.
It is obviously not intended to spell out the situations
where liquidated damages are to be paid and cannot, conthe work and prosecute the same to completion by contract or otherwise, and the contractor and his sureties shall be liable to the Government for any excess cost occasioned the Government thereby. If the
contractor's right to proceed is so terminated, the Government may
take possession of and utilize in completing the work such materials,
appliances, and plant as may be on the site of the work and necessary
therefor. If the Government does not terminate the right of the
contractor to proceed, the contractor shall continue the work, in which
event the actual damages for the delay will be impossible to determine
and in lieu thereof the contractor shall pay to the Government as
fixed, agreed, and liquidated damages for each calendar day of delay,
until the work is completed or accepted the amount as set forth in the
specifications or accompanying papers and the contractor and his
sureties shall be liable for the amount thereof. ..."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

trary to the Government's contention, control the language
of Article 9.4
The impact of Article 9 on the facts of this case is clear.
The contractor having failed to complete his work within
the specified time, the Government exercised its option under the first part of Article 9 to terminate his right to proceed. This power to terminate could be exercised before
or on the stipulated completion date or, as in this case, at
any date thereafter. The Government then made other
arrangements to complete the construction work and was
entitled to, and did recover, the excess cost occasioned
thereby. It thus waived its right to liquidated damages
under the second part of Article 9. That right is conditioned upon the Government not terminating the contractor's right to proceed. Where there is such a termination,
even though it be subsequent to the stipulated completion
date, the right to liquidated damages disappears. Such
has been the uniform and correct result heretofore reached
in the application of this type of contract provision. See
United States v. Cunningham, 125 F, 2d 28; UnitedStates
v. MarylandCasualty Co., 25 F. Supp. 778; MarylandCasualty Co. v. United States, 93 Ct. Cls. 247. See also Fidelity & Casualty Co. v. United States, 81 Ct. Cls. 495; Commercial Casualty InsuranceCo. v. United States, 83 Ct. Cls.
367; American Employer's Insurance Co. v. United States,
91 Ct. Cls. 231.
The Government has urged us to read the second part of
Article 9 as though the right to liquidated damages were
The directions for the preparation of construction contracts upon
the form here involved state that "The specifications should include
a paragraph stating the amount of liquidated damages that will be paid
by the contractor for each calendar day of delay, as indicated in Article
9 of the contract." It was pursuant to this direction that paragraph
5 of the specifications in the instant case was inserted. This instruction indicates that the specifications are to include no more than "the
amount" or rate of per diem damages that are to be applied "as indicated in Article 9 of the contract."
4

U. S. v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
96

Opinion of the Court.

based, not upon a condition precedent that the Government not terminate, but upon a continuing condition, under which liquidated damages would accrue "so long as the
Government does not terminate" the contractor's right to
proceed. This is said to be the only way to give full effect
to the prime purpose of § 21 of the 1902 Act to eliminate
the uncertainties and difficulties of establishing actual
damages to the Government by delay in obtaining the
use of a public building. Otherwise proof is required
of actual damages for the delay where termination occurs
before completion in the teeth of a statute which dispenses with such proof in suits on a construction contract containing a stipulation "for liquidated damages for
delay." The Government also claims that failure to allow it liquidated damages under these circumstances leaves
it entirely to the contractor whether liquidated damages
will ever be paid since he can relieve himself of such liability at any time short of completion simply by abandoning the work or provoking the Government to terminate
his right to proceed. The Government contracting officers
in turn would be induced to allow the contractor to proceed
to completion despite inexcusable delays so as not to forfeit mounting liquidated damages, thus precluding prompt
completion and occupancy of needed structures.
But we are confronted here with an unambiguous contract that clearly limits the right to liquidated damages
to situations where the Government does not at any
time terminate the contractor's right to proceed. That
it may be wiser to expand the right to such damages to
every case of delay, regardless of whether there is a termination, is of course not relevant in interpreting and
applying clear words of limitation in the contract. We
find nothing, moreover, in § 21 of the 1902 Act that fills
in interstices deliberately left open by the parties. No
statutory language or policy forbids the Government and
a contractor from stipulating for liquidated damages in

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

322 U. S.

limited situations only. Indeed the statute makes any
such stipulation "conclusive and binding upon all parties,"
thereby foreclosing the Government's right to object to
its own failure to insist upon liquidated damages in other

situations. Since we are not justified in rewriting the
clear provisions of the contract to include what might
well have been but was not inserted, the judgment below
mustbe
Affirmed.
CLIFFORD F. MAcEVOY CO. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES FOR THE USE AND BENEFIT OF CALVIN
TOMKINS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 483.

Argued March 7, 1944.-Decided April 24, 1944.

1. Where A sold materials to B who merely sold them to a contractor
for use on a Government project, A is not entitled to recover upon
a payment bond furnished by the contractor pursuant to the Miller

Act. P. 104.
2. The term "subcontractor" in the proviso of § 2 (a) of the Miller
Act-"any person having direct contractual relationship with a sub-

contractor but no contractual relationship express or implied with
the contractor furnishing said payment bond shall have a right
of action upon said payment bond--does not include a materialman
who merely sells materials to the contractor. P. 108.
3. The salutary policy of the Miller Act to protect those whose labor
and materials go into public projects does not warrant disregard
of the plain words of limitation in the proviso of § 2 (a) of the Act.
P. 107.
137 F. 2d 565, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 733, to review the reversal of a

judgment, 49 F. Supp. 81, dismissing the complaint in a
suit against a Government contractor and surety upon a
payment bond.

