292

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Conclusion and Judgment.

322 U. S.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. MINNESOTA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 33. Argued October 19, 20, 1944.-Decided May 15, 1944.
A corporation which was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota,
and which had its principal place of business in that State, owned
and operated in interstate commerce a fleet of airplanes; for all
of the planes, a city within the State was the home port registered
with the Civil Aeronautics Authority and the overhaul base; and
none of the planes was continuously without the State during the
whole tax year. Held that a general Minnesota personal property
tax applied to all personal property within the State and without
discrimination applied on the corporation's entire fleet of airplanes
did not violate the commerce clause, nor the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal Constitution.
Pp. 293, 300.
213 Minn. 395, 7 N. W. 2d 691, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 734, to review the affirmance of
a judgment for the State in a suit against the company to
recover delinquent personal property taxes.
Mr. Michael J. Doherty, with whom Mr. W. E. Rumble
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Andrew R. Bratter and Mr. George B. Sjoselius,
Assistant Attorney General of Minnesota, with whom
Messrs. J. A. A. Burnquist, Attorney General, and James
F. Lynch were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER announced the conclusion

and judgment of the Court.
The question before us is whether the Commerce Clause
or the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
bars the State of Minnesota from enforcing the personal
property tax it has laid on the entire fleet of airplanes
owned by the petitioner and operated by it in interstate
transportation. The answer involves the application of

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 293
292

Conclusion and Judgment.

settled legal principles to the precise circumstances of
this case. To these, about which there is no dispute, we
turn.
Northwest Airlines is a Minnesota corporation and its
principal place of business is St. Paul. It is a commercial
airline carrying persons, property and mail on regular
fixed routes, with due allowance for weather, predominantly within the territory comprising Illinois, Minnesota,
North Dakota, Montana, Oregon, Wisconsin and Washington. For all the planes St. Paul is the home port registered with the Civil Aeronautics Authority, under
whose certificate of convenience and necessity Northwest
operates. At six of its scheduled cities, Northwest operates maintenance bases, but the work of rebuilding and
overhauling the planes is done in St. Paul. Details as to
stopovers, other runs, the location of flying crew bases
and of the usual facilities for aircraft, have no bearing on
our problem.
The tax in controversy is for the year 1939. All of
Northwest's planes were in Minnesota from time to time
during that year. All were, however, continuously engaged in flying from State to State, except when laid up
for repairs and overhauling for unidentified periods. On
May 1, 1939, the time fixed by Minnesota for assessing
personal property subject to its tax (Minn. Stat. 1941,
§ 273.01), Northwest's scheduled route mileage in Minnesota was 14% of its total scheduled route mileage, and
the scheduled plane mileage was 16% of that scheduled.
It based its personal property tax return for 1939 on the
number of planes in Minnesota on May 1, 1939. Thereupon the appropriate taxing authority of Minnesota assessed a tax against Northwest on the basis of the entire
fleet coming into Minnesota. For that additional assessment this suit was brought. The Supreme Court of Minnesota, with three judges dissenting, affirmed the judgment of a lower court in favor of the State. 213 Minn.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Conclusion and Judgment.

322 U. S.

395, 7 N. W. 2d 691. A new phase of an old problem led
us to bring the case here. 319 U. S. 734.
The tax here assessed by Minnesota is a tax assessed
upon "all personal property of persons residing therein,
including the property of corporations . . ." Minn.
Stat. 1941, § 272.01. It is not a charge laid for engaging
in interstate commerce or upon airlines specifically; it is
not aimed by indirection against interstate commerce or
measured by such commerce. Nor is the tax assessed
against planes which were "continuously without the
State during the whole tax year," N. Y. Central & H.
R. R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584, 594, and had thereby
acquired "a permanent location elsewhere," Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, 68; and see Cream of
Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325, 328-330.
Minnesota is here taxing a corporation for all its property within the State during the tax year no part of which
receives permanent protection from any other State.
The benefits given to Northwest by Minnesota and for
which Minnesota taxes--its corporate facilities and the
governmental resources which Northwest enjoys in the
conduct of its business in Minnesota-are concretely symbolized by the fact that Northwest's principal place of
business is in St. Paul and that St. Paul is the "home port"
of all its planes. The relation between Northwest and
Minnesota-a relation existing between no other State
and Northwest-and the benefits which this relation affords are the constitutional foundation for the taxing
power which Minnesota has asserted. See State Tax
Comm'n v. Aldrich, 316 U. S. 174, 180. No other State
can claim to tax as the State of the legal domicile as well as
the home State of the fleet, as a business fact. No other
State is the State which gave Northwest the power to be
as well as the power to function as Northwest functions in
Minnesota; no other State could impose a tax that derives
from the significant legal relation of creator and creature

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 295
292

Conclusion and Judgment.

and the practical consequences of that relation in this
case. On the basis of rights which Minnesota alone originated and Minnesota continues to safeguard, she alone
can tax the personalty which is permanently attributable
to Minnesota and to no other State. It is too late to suggest that this taxing power of a State is less because the
tax may be reflected in the cost of transportation. See
DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 232.
Such being the case, it is clearly ruled by N. Y. Central
& H. R. R. Co. v. Miller, supra. Here, as in that case, a
corporation is taxed for all its property within the State
during the tax year none of which was "continuously without the State during the whole tax year." Therefore the
doctrine of Union TransitCo. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194,
does not come into play. The fact that Northwest paid
personal property taxes for the year 1939 upon "some proportion of its full value" of its airplane fleet in some other
States does not abridge the power of taxation of Minnesota
as the home State of the fleet in the circumstances of the
present case. The taxability of any part of this fleet by
any other State than Minnesota, in view of the taxability
of the entire fleet by that State, is not now before us. It
was not shown in the Miller case and it is not shown here
that a defined part of the domiciliary corpus has acquired a
permanent location, i. e., a taxing situs, elsewhere." That
1 In the Miller case, the New York Central Railroad introduced
evidence that during the taxable years in question, a proportion of
its cars, ranging from about 12% to 64%, was used outside of New
York. This figure was arrived at by using the ratio between Central's
mileage outside of New York and its total mileage. The comptroller
nevertheless ruled that all of Central's cars were taxable in New York,
the State of domicile. On review of this ruling as applied in the first
tax year involved, the New York Court of Appeals remitted the proceedings to the comptroller to determine whether any of the rolling
stock was used exclusively out of the State. 173 N. Y. 255, 65 N. E.
1102. No such evidence was introduced for any tax year, although
there was evidence to show "that a certain proportion of cars, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Conclusion and Judgment.

322 U. S.

was the decisive feature of the Miller case, and it was
deemed decisive as late as 1933 in Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 290 U. S. 158, which was strongly pressed upon us
by Northwest. In that case it was not the home State,
Illinois, but a foreign State, Oklahoma, which was seeking
to tax a whole fleet of tank cars used by the oil company.
That case fell outside of the decision of the Millercase and
ours falls precisely within it. "Appellant had its domicile
in Illinois," as Mr. Chief Justice Hughes pointed out, "and
that State had jurisdiction to tax appellant's personal
property which had not acquired an actual situs elsewhere." 290 U. S. at 161.2 This constitutional basis for
what Minnesota did reflects practicalities in the relations
between the States and air transportation. "It has been
customary to tax operating airplanes at their overhaul
not the same cars, was continuously without the State during the whole
tax year." 202 U. S. 584, 594. The comptroller made no reduction
in the tax, and this action was affirmed by the Appellate Division (89
App. Div. 127, 84 N. Y. S. 1088), the Court of Appeals (177 N. Y.
584, 69 N. E. 1129) and on review here.
2 In the Johnson Oil Co. case, supra, this Court reaffirmed not less
than three times that the State of domicile has jurisdiction to tax the
personal property of its corporation unless such property has acquired
an "actual situs" in another State. And by "actual situs" it meant,
as its references to Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, and the
Miller case indicate, what those cases required for "actual situs" before the constitutional power of the domiciliary State to tax could be
curtailed, namely continuous presence in another State which thereby
supplants the home State and acquires the taxing power over personalty that has become a permanent part of the foreign State. Surely
the situs which personal property may acquire for tax purposes in a
State other than that of the owner's domicile cannot be made to depend on some undefined concept of "permanence" short of a tax year,
leaving the adequate size of the fraction of the tax year for judicial
determination in each year. Such a doctrine would play havoc with
the tax laws of the forty-eight States. It would multiply manifold
the recognized difficulties of ascertaining the domicile of individuals.
See Texas v. Florida,306 U. S. 398; District of Columbia v. Murphy,
314 U. S. 441.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 297
292

Conclusion and Judgment.

base." Thompson, State and Local Taxation Affecting
Air Transportation(1933) 4 J. Air L. 479, 483.
The doctrine of tax apportionment for instrumentalities engaged in interstate commerce introduced by Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.18, is here inapplicable. The principle of that case is that a nondomiciliary State may tax an interstate carrier "engaged
in running railroad cars into, through and out of the State,
and having at all times a large number of cars within the
State . . . by taking as the basis of assessment such proportion of its capital stock as the number of miles of railroad over which its cars are run within the State bears to
the whole number of miles in all the States over which its
cars are run." Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, at
206. This principle was successively extended to the old
means of transportation and communication, such as express companies and telegraph systems. But the doctrine
of apportionment has neither in theory nor in practice
-been applied to tax units of interstate commerce visiting
for fractional periods of the taxing year. (Thus, for instance, "The coaches of the company . . . are daily passing from one end of the State to the other," in Pullman's
Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra, at 20, citing the opinion
of the court below in 107 Pa. 156, 160.) The continuous
protection by a State other than the domiciliary Statethat is, protection throughout the tax year-has furnished
the constitutional basis for tax apportionment in these
interstate commerce situations, and it is on that basis
that the tax laws have been framed and administered.
The taxing power of the domiciliary State has a very
different basis. It has power to tax because it is the State
of domicile and no other State is. For reasons within
its own sphere of choice Congress at one time chartered interstate carriers and at other times has left the
chartering and all that goes with it to the States. That
is a practical fact of legislative choice and a practical fact
587770---45-23

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Conclusion and Judgment.

322 U. S.

from which legal significance has always followed. That
far-reaching fact was recognized, as a matter of course,
by Mr. Justice Bradley in his dissent in the Pullman's Car Co. case, supra,at 32. Congress of course could
exert its controlling authority over commerce by appropriate regulation and exclude a domiciliary State from
authority which it otherwise would have because it is the
domiciliary State. But no judicial restriction has been
applied against the domiciliary State except when property (or a portion of fungible units) is permanently situated in a State other than the domiciliary State.3 And
permanently means continuously throughout the year, not
a fraction thereof, whether days or weeks.
Such was the unanimous decision in the Miller case or
the Miller case decided nothing. The present case is precisely the case which Mr. Justice Holmes assumed the
Miller case to be. By substituting Minnesota for New
York we have inescapably the facts of the present case:
"Suppose, then, that the State of Minnesota had taxed
the property directly, there was nothing to hinder its taxing the whole of it. It is true that it has been decided that
property, even of a domestic corporation, cannot be taxed
3 In the most recent apportionment case to come before this Court,
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362, we merely sustained the application by the Tennessee Railroad Commission and
the Tennessee Supreme Court of a "familiar and frequently sanctioned
formula" for apportionment on a mileage basis against the claim of
the inapplicability of this formula in the circumstances of that case
because of the disparity in the revenue-producing capacity between
the lines in and out of Tennessee. Mathematical exactitude in making the apportionment has never been a constitutional requirement.
That is the essence of the Browning holding. No suggestion can be
found at any stage of that litigation in any wise touching the present
problem, namely, whether the domiciliary State is constitutionally
limited in taxing all the movables that come within it except by the
Union Transit doctrine, that a proportion which had during the entire
tax year been within another State cannot be taxed in the domiciliary
State.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 299
292

Conclusion and Judgment.

if it is permanently out of the State. ... But it has not
been decided, and it could not be decided, that a State
may not tax its own corporations for all their property
within the State during the tax year, even if every item
of that property should be taken successively into another State for a day, a week, or six months, and then
brought back. Using the language of domicil, which now
so frequently is applied to inanimate things, the State of
origin remains the permanent situs of the property, notwithstanding its occasional excursions to foreign parts."
N. Y. Central& H. R. R. Co. v. Miller, supra, at 596-597.'
Surely, the power of the State of origin to "tax its own
corporations for all their property within the State during the tax year" cannot constitutionally be affected
whether the property takes fixed trips or indeterminate
trips so long as the property is not "continuously without
the State during the whole tax year," N. Y. Central& H. R.
R. Co. v. Miller, supra, at 594, even when, as in the Miller
case, from 12% to 64% of the property was shown to have
been used outside of New York during the tax year, but in
no one visited State permanently, that is, for the whole
year. And that is the decisive constitutional fact about
the Miller case-that although from 12% to 64% of the
rolling stock of the railroad was outside of New York
throughout the tax year, New York was nevertheless allowed to tax it all because no part was in any other State
throughout the year.
To introduce a new doctrine of tax apportionment as a
limitation upon the hitherto established taxing power of
the home State is not merely to indulge in constitutional
4 In speaking of "occasional excursions to foreign parts" and "random excursions" (202 U. S. at 597), Mr. Justice Holmes merely put
colloquially the legally significant fact that neither any specific cars
nor any average of cars was so continuously in any other State as to
have been withdrawn from the home State and to have established
for tax purposes an adopted home State.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Conclusion and Judgment.

322 U. S.

innovation. It is to introduce practical dislocation into
the established taxing systems of the States. The doctrine
of tax apportionment has been painfully evolved in working out the financial relations between the States and
interstate transportation and communication conducted
on land and thereby forming a part of the organic life of
these States. Although a part of the taxing systems of
this country, the rule of apportionment is beset with friction, waste and difficulties, but at all events it grew out
of, and has established itself in regard to, land commerce."
To what extent it should be carried over to the totally new
problems presented by the very different modes of transportation and communication that the airplane and the
radio have already introduced, let alone the still more
subtle and complicated technological facilities that are on
the horizon, raises questions that we ought not to anticipate; certainly we ought not to embarrass the future by
judicial answers which at best can deal only in a truncated
way with problems sufficiently difficult even for legislative statesmanship.
The doctrine in the Miller case, which we here apply,
does not subject property permanently located outside
of the domiciliary State to double taxation. But not to
subject property that has no locality other than the State
of its owner's domicile to taxation there would free such
floating property from taxation everywhere. And what
the Miller case decided is that neither the Commerce
Clause nor the Fourteenth Amendment affords such constitutional immunity.
Each new means of interstate transportation and communication has engendered controversy regarding the
5And that the constitutional power of the domiciliary State to
tax vessels is precisely the same as its power to tax rolling stock is
conclusively shown by the Court's reliance in the Miller case on a
case decided a week before, namely, Ayer & Lord Co. v. Kentucky,
202 U. S. 409.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 301
292

BLACK, J., concurring.

taxing powers of the States inter se and as between the
States and the Federal Government. Such controversies and some conflict and confusion are inevitable under
a federal system. They have long been the source of difficulty and dissatisfaction for us, 9ee J. B. Moore, Taxation of Movables and the FourteenthAmendment (1907)
7 Col. L. Rev. 309; Groves, IntergovernmentalFiscalRelations, Proceedings Thirty-fifth Annual Conference, National Tax Association, p. 105, and have equally plagued
the British federal systems, see Report of the [Australian]
Royal Commission on the Constitution, (1929) c. XII (p.
127), c. XIX (p. 187), c. XXIII (at p. 259); Report of
the [Canadian] Royal Commission on Dominion-Provincial Relations, (1940) Bk. I, c. VIII, Bk. II, § B, c.
III. In response to arguments addressed also to,us about
the dangers of harassing state taxation affecting national
transportation, the concurring judge below adverts to the
power of Congress to incorporate airlines and to control
their taxation. But insofar as these are matters that go
beyond the constitutional issues which dispose of this
case, they are not our concern.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BLAACK, concurring:
I concur in the judgment of the Court and in substantially all that is said in the opinion, but I would not in
this case foreclose consideration of the taxing rights of
States other than Minnesota.
I believe there is small support in reason or in the Constitution for the doctrine that the Commerce Clause in and
of itself prohibits a state from applying its general tax
laws to transactions and properties in interstate commerce
unless it is able to make two correct prophecies as to what
this Court ultimately may hold, namely, (1) The permissible total of taxes which might be imposed by an aggregate of states on the taxed properties or transactions; and
(2) The proportion of this total which the state itself

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

322 U. S.

fairly may claim. See dissenting opinions in Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 316; Gwin, White
& Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 442. Extension of
this dubious doctrine to the new problems of air transport gives promise of little but tax confusion.
The differing views of members of the Court in this and
related cases illustrate the difficulties inherent in the judicial formulation of general rules to meet the national
problems arising from state taxation which bears in incidence upon interstate commerce. These problems, it
seems to me, call for Congressional investigation, consideration, and action. The Constitution gives that branch
of government the power to regulate commerce among
the states, and until it acts I think we should enter the
field with extreme caution. See dissenting opinion, McCarrollv. Dixie Greyhound Lines, 309 U. S. 176, 183.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring:

This case considers for the first time constitutional limitations upon state power to tax airplanes. Several principles of limitation have been judicially evolved in reference to ships and to railroad rolling stock. The question is which, if any, of these should be transferred to air
transport.
We are at a stage in development of air commerce
roughly comparable to that of steamship navigation in
1824 when Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, came before this
Court. Any authorization of local burdens on our national air commerce will lead to their multiplication in this
country. Moreover, such an example is not likely to be
neglected by other revenue-needy nations as international
air transport expands.
Aviation has added a new dimension to travel and to
our ideas. The ancient idea that landlordism and sovereignty extend from the center of the world to the periph-

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 303
292

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

ery of the universe has been modified. Today the
landowner no more possesses a vertical control of all the air
above him than a shore owner possesses horizontal control
of all the sea before him. The air is too precious as an
open highway to permit it to be "owned" to the exclusion
or embarrassment of air navigation by surface landlords
who could put it to little real use.
Students of our legal evolution know how this Court
interpreted the commerce clause of the Constitution to
lift navigable waters of the United States out of local controls and into the domain of federal control. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, to United States v. AppalachianPower
Co., 311 U. S. 377. Air as an element in which to navigate is even more inevitably federalized by the commerce
clause than is navigable water. Local exactions and barriers to free transit in the air would neutralize its indifference to space and its conquest of time.
Congress has recognized the national responsibility for
regulating air commerce. Federal control is intensive and
exclusive. Planes do not wander about in the sky like
vagrant clouds. They move only by federal permission,
subject to federal inspection, in the hands of federally
certified personnel and under an intricate system of federal commands. The moment a ship taxis onto a runway it is caught up in an elaborate and detailed system
of controls. It takes off only by instruction from the control tower, it travels on prescribed beams, it may be diverted from its intended landing, and it obeys signals and
orders. Its privileges, rights and protection, so far as
transit is concerned, it owes to the Federal Government
alone and not to any state government.
Congress has not extended its protection and control
to the field of taxation, although I take it no one denies
that constitutionally it may do so. It may exact a single
uniform federal tax on the property or the business to

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

322 U. S.

the exclusion of taxation by the states. It may subject
the vehicles or other incidents to any type of state and
local taxation, or it may declare them tax-free altogether.
Our function is to determine what rule governs in the
absence of such legislative enactment.
Certainly today flight over a state either casually or on
regular routes and schedules confers no jurisdiction to
tax. Earlier ideas of a state's sovereignty over the air
above it might argue for such a right to tax, but it is one
of those cases where legal philosophy has to take account
of the fact that the world does move.
Does the act of landing within a state, even regularly
and on schedule, confer jurisdiction to tax? Undoubtedly
a plane, like any other article of personal property, could
land or remain within a state in such a way as to become
a part of the property within the state. But when a plane
lands to receive and discharge passengers, to undergo
servicing or repairs, or to await a convenient departing
schedule, it does not n my opinion lose its character as
a plane in transit. Long ago this Court held that the
landing of a ship within the ports of a state for similar
purposes did not confer jurisdiction to tax. Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17 How. 596; St. Louis v. Ferry Co.., 11
Wall. 423; Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471; cf. Ayer &
Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409. I cannot consider that to alight out of the skies onto a landing field
and take off again into the air confers any greater taxing
jurisdiction on a state than for a ship for the same purposes to come alongside a wharf on the water and get
under way again.
What, then, remains as a basis for Minnesota's claim to
tax this entire fleet of planes at their full value as property
of the State of Minnesota? They have been within the
state only transiently and in the same manner in which
they have been in many states: to serve the public and
to be serviced. The planes have received no "protection"

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 305
292

JACKSON, J., concurring.

or "benefit" from Minnesota that they have not received
from many others. It might be difficult, in view of the
complete control of this type of activity by the Federal
Government, to find what benefits or protection any state
extends. But no distinction whatever can be pointed out
between those extended by Minnesota and. those extended
by any state where there is a terminal or a stopping
place.
But it is said that Minnesota incorporated the company. Of course it is her right to tax the company she
has created and the franchise she has granted. I suppose
there are many ways that she might constitutionally
measure the value of this privilege. If she chartered a
corporation on condition that all property it might acquire, tangible or intangible, should be taxable under
her laws, I do not think a company which accepted such
a charter could appeal to the Constitution to give back
what it voluntarily contracted away. But no such stipulation has been made in the charter in this case. The tax
imposed here is a general ad valorem property tax on the
full value of every plane of the fleet operated by this
company. Domicile of an owner is a usual test of power
to tax intangibles, but has not generally been a conclusive
test of taxability of tangible property situated elsewhere.
If we should suppose that this corporation had a Delaware
charter instead of a Minnesota one, and had nothing in
Delaware except its agent, but operated otherwise in Minnesota exactly as it has done, would we say that the entire
right to tax the fleet moved to Delaware because it was
the corporation's state of domicile? I do not think that
domicile, in the facts of this case, is decisive of Minnesota's claim to tax the tangible property of the company
wherever situate.
It is strongly and plausibly advocated that the theory
of apportionment of the total value among the several
states of operation, heretofore applied to state taxation

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
JACKSON,

J., concurring.

322 U. S.

of railroad rolling stock, be transferred to air transportation. This would mean that each state of operation (no
one ventures to say whether flight alone or both flight and
landing would be required) could tax a proportion of the
total value.
The apportionment theory is a mongrel one, a cross between desire not to interfere with state taxation and desire at the same time not utterly to crush out interstate
commerce. It is a practical, but rather illogical, device
to prevent duplication of tax burdens on vehicles in
transit. It is established in our decisions and has been
found more or less workable with more or less arbitrary
formulae of apportionment. Nothing either in theory or
in practice commends it for transfer to air commerce. A
state has a different relation to rolling stock of railroads
than it has to airplanes. Rolling stock is useless without
surface rights and continuous structures on every inch of
land over which it operates. Surface rights the railroad
has acquired from the state or under its law. There is a
physical basis within the state for the taxation of rolling
stock which is lacking in the case of airplanes.
It seems more than likely that no solution of the competition among states to tax this transportation agency
can be devised by the judicial process without legislative
help. The best analogy that I find in existing decisions
is the "home port" theory applied to ships. See Hays v.
Pacific Mail S. S. Co., St. Louis v. Ferry Co., Morgan v.
Parham, supra. There is difficulty in the application of
this doctrine to air commerce, I grant. There is no statutory machinery for fixing the home port. If federal registration established statehood as it establishes nationality,
the home port doctrine would be easy to apply. However, on the record before us it seems unquestioned that
Minnesota is in an operational as well as in a domiciliary
sense the home port of this fleet. On that doctrine Minnesota can tax the fleet, but its right to do so is exclusive,

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 307
292

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

for no other state can acquire jurisdiction to tax merely
because it provides a port of call. I therefore concur in
the conclusion reached by the opinion of MR. JUsTICE
FRANKFURTER. I do not accept the opinion because it
falls short of commitment that Minnesota's right is exclusive of any similar right elsewhere. It is, I know,
difficult to judge and dangerous to foreclose claims of
other states that are not before us. That is the weakness
of the judicial process in these tax questions where the
total problem that faces an industry reaches us only in
installments. If the reasoning should hereafter be extended to support full taxation everywhere, it would offend the commerce clause, as I see it, even more seriously
than apportioned taxation everywhere.
The evils of local taxation of goods or vehicles in transit
are not measured by the exaction of one locality alone,
but by the aggregation of them. I certainly do not favor
exemption of interstate commerce from its "just share of
taxation." But history shows that fair judgment as to
what exactions are just to the passer-by cannot be left to
local opinion. When local authority is taxing its own,
the taxed ones may be assumed to be able to protect themselves at the polls. No such sanction enforces fair dealing to the transient. In all ages and climes those who
are settled in strategic localities have made the moving world pay dearly. This the commerce clause was
designed to end in the United States.
The rule I suggest seems most consonant with the purposes of the commerce clause among those found in our
precedents. But the whole problem we deal with is unprecedented. I do not think we can derive from decisional
law a satisfactory adjustment of the conflicting needs of
the nation for free air commerce and the natural desire of
localities to have revenue from the business that goes on
about them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. 3., dissenting.

322 U. S.

I concur in the affirmance of the judgment below, but

only because the record seems to me to establish Minnesota
as a "home port" within the meaning of the old and somewhat neglected but to me wise authorities cited.
dissenting:
In my opinion the Minnesota levy imposed an unconstitutional tax on petitioner's vehicles of interstate transportation in violation of the commerce clause, and for that
reason the judgment below should be reversed.
Petitioner, a Minnesota corporation, is owner of a large
number of airplanes which it uses exclusively in interstate transportation moving on regular schedules and over
fixed routes extending through eight states between Chicago, Illinois, and the Pacific coast, with the usual landing
fields and maintenance bases at intermediate points, including Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota. It is stipulated that on May 1, 1939, 14% of the total mileage of the
prescribed interstate routes was in Minnesota and that
16% of the daily plane mileage of all petitioner's interstate
planes was in that state.
Although the Minnesota statute taxing personal property directs that it shall be listed for taxation on May 1st
of each year and assessed for taxation at its value on that
date, Minn. Stat. 1941 § 273.01, the state taxing authorities have levied on petitioner, and the Minnesota Supreme
Court and this Court have sustained, an annual tax on the
full value of all its planes used in interstate commerce
which have come into the state at any time during the
year. It is evident that if, with the Minnesota tax now
sustained, other states are left free to impose a further
or comparable tax on the same property for the same tax
period, a serious question is raised whether the tax is not
a prohibited burden on interstate commerce.
It is no longer doubted that interstate business "must
pay its way" by sustaining its fair share of the property
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 309
292

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

tax burden which the states in which the interstate business is done may lawfully impose generally on property
located within them. See Western Live Stock v. Bureau,
303 U. S. 250, 254-5 and cases cited. Obviously interstate
business bears no undue part of that burden if the personal
property tax imposed on it by a given state is-like a tax
on realestate located there--exclusive of all other property
taxes imposed by other states, as is the case with the taxation of vessels, Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198
U. S. 299; Southern Pacific Ry. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63
and cases cited; cf. N. Y. Central & H. R. R. Co. v. Miller,
202 U. S. 584, or if the tax on its personal property regularly used over fixed routes in interstate commerce, both
within and without the taxing state, is fairly apportioned
to its use within the state, as has until now been the rule as
to railroad cars. Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 127
U. S. 117, 123-4; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141
U. S. 18; American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, 174
U. S. 70; Union TransitCo. v. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149; Union
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; GermaniaRefining Co. v. Fuller,245 U. S. 632; Union Tank Line .Co. v.
Wright, 249 U. S. 275; Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 290
U.S. 158.
If the tax levied here were held to be exclusive of all
property taxes imposed on petitioner's airplanes by other
states there could be no serious question of an undue burden on interstate commerce. That question arises now
only because the rationale found necessary to support the
present tax leaves other states free to impose comparable
taxes on the same property used in interstate commerce
which Minnesota has already taxed for the entire taxable
year and at its full value.
Such, I think, is the necessary consequence of the Court's
decision and judgment now given. They do not sustain the
tax on the ground that Minnesota, as the state of petitioner's domicile, has exclusive power to tax respondent's

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

planes which pass in and out of Minnesota in performance
of their interstate functions. They do not deny that the
planes are constitutionally subject, to some extent, to
personal property taxes by the states through which they
pass. Our decisions, as will presently appear, establish
that they are, and that vehicles of interstate transportation moving from the state of the owner's domicile over
regular routes within the jurisdiction of other states also
acquire a tax situs there, so that, to an extent presently
to be considered, they may be taxed by each of the states
through which they pass. In fact the record discloses that
petitioner's interstate planes, already taxed by Minnesota
for their full value, are in addition subjected to personal
property taxes in six of the seven other states through
which they fly.
But if petitioner's airplanes, which are taxable for some
portion of their value in each of the states in which they
carry on interstate transportation over fixed routes and
regular schedules, are also taxed for their full value by
Minnesota, the state of the domicile, it is evident that
merely because they are engaged in interstate commerce
they may be subjected to multiple state taxation far in
excess of their value, and far beyond any tax which any
one of the states concerned could under its established
system of taxation impose on vehicles whose movements
are confined within its territorial limits. It is a scheme of
property taxation on which, so far as the decision now
rendered gives us any hint, the commerce clause sets no
restriction, but which is so burdensome in its operation as
compared with the taxes imposed on intrastate vehicles
that few interstate carriers could support it and survive
economically.
The case thus sharply presents in a new form the old
question whether the commerce clause affords any protection against multiple state taxation of the physical

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 311
292

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

facilities used in interstate transportation which, because
they move from state to state, are exposed to full taxation
in each, save only as the due process and commerce clauses
may prevent. Although the question is new in form it is
old in substance and this Court has considered it so often
in other but similar relationships that the answer here
seems plain.
Of controlling significance in this case are certain elementary propositions, so long accepted and applied by
this Court that they cannot be said to be debatable here,
although they seem not to have been taken into account
in deciding this case either here or in the Minnesota Supreme Court. The first is that the constitutionil basis for
the state taxation of the airplanes, which are chattels, is
their physical presence within the taxing state, and not
the domicile of the owner. Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra;Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, supra, 161-2
and cases cited. In this respect, as this Court has often
pointed out, the taxation of chattels rests on a different
basis than does the taxation of intangibles, which have no
physical situs and may be reached by the tax gatherer
only through exertion of the power of the state over the
person of those who have some legal interest in the intangibles. Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, 205-6;
Schwab v. Richardson, 263 U. S. 88, 92; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, 494; Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S.
1, 16-18; Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193, 20910; Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357, 363-6; Graves v.
Elliott, 307 U. S. 383; Graves v. Schmidlapp, 315 U. S.
657; State Tax Comm'n v. Aldrich, 316 U. S. 174.
A state may, within the Fourteenth Amendment, tax a
chattel located within its limits, although its owner is
domiciled elsewhere. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622;
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra;Old DominionS. S. Co. v. Virginia,supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

But due process precludes the state of the domicile from
taxing it unless it is brought within that state's bound-

aries. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198
U. S. 341; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra;Frick v.
Pennsylvania,supra, 489 et seq. It is plain then that for
present purposes, and so far as the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned, respondent's airplanes, which are
chattels regularly moving over fixed interstate routes, are
subject in some measure to the taxing power of every state
in which they regularly stop on their interstate mission.In some instances it may be that vehicles of transportation moving interstate are so sporadically and irregularly
present in 'other states that they acquire no tax situs there,

Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17 How. 596; St. Louis v.
Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423; Morgan v. Parham,16 Wall. 471;
Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409, and hence
remain taxable to their full value by the state of the domicile because they are not taxable elsewhere, N. Y. Central

& H. R. R. Co. v. Miller, supra; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Kentucky, supra. But that is not the case as to any of
the planes here involved. And our decisions establish
that, except in the case of tangibles which have nowhere
acquired a tax situs based on physical presence, and for
that reason remain taxable at the domicile even if never
present there, the state's power to tax chattels depends
We need not consider here whether the jurisdiction of a state over
air above it-as distinguished from the control of a private land.owner over air above his land-affords a basis for taxation of planes
which regularly fly over the state but do not regularly land within
its borders. For in six of the seven states, other than Minnesota,
over which petitioner's airplanes regularly fly, they also make regular scheduled landings. Plainly those states have jurisdiction to tax
a proportionate part of their value and to that extent the judgment
of the Minnesota Supreme Court, permitting taxation in full by the
domicile, is erroneous, and the cause should be remanded for further
proceedings.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 313
292

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

on their physical presence and is neither added to nor
subtracted from because the taxing state may or may not
happen to be the state of the owner's domicile.
We need not consider to what extent the due process
clause limits the taxing power of each state through which
airplanes or other vehicles of interstate transportation
pass, to the taxation of part only of their value, fairly
related to their use within the state, or precluded the
Minnesota Supreme Court from extending to tangible
property moving in more than one state the rule of Cwrry
v. McCanless, supra, and subsequent cases, permitting
full taxation of intangibles by each state having a substantial relationship to the interest taxed. For we are
dealing here with tangible instrumentalities of interstate
commerce, entitled as such to the protection afforded by
the commerce clause from unduly burdensome state taxation, even though the tax might otherwise be within the
constitutional power of the state. And it is plain, as this
Court has often held, that if one state may impose a personal property tax at full value on an interstate carrier's
vehicles of transportation, and other states through which
they pass may also tax them for the same tax period, the
resulting tax would be destructive of the commerce by
imposing on it a multiple tax burden to which intrastate
carriers are not subjected.
This Court has never denied the power of the several
states to impose a property tax on vehicles used in interstate transportation in the taxing state. It has recognized, as we have seen, that such instruments of interstate
transportation, at least if moving over fixed routes on regular schedules, may thus acquire a tax situs in every state
through which they pass. And it has met the problem
of burdensome multiple taxation by the several states
through which such vehicles pass by recognizing that the
due process clause or the commerce clause or both pre587770°--45---24

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

elude each state from imposing on the interstate commerce involved an undue or inequitable share of the tax
burden. In Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Browning, 310
U. S. 362, 365, we recently considered "the guiding principles for adjustment of the state's right to secure its
revenues and the nation's duty to protect interstate transportation." We declared that "The problem to be solved
is what portion of an interstate organism may appropriately be attributed to each of the various states in which
it functions." And, in sustaining the tax, apportioned
according to mileage, upon the entire property, including
rolling stock, of an interstate railroad, imposed by Tennessee, the state of the owner's domicile, in which its principal business office and over 70% of its trackage was
located, we said that the state could not "use a fiscal formula . . . to project the taxing power of the state plainly
beyond its borders."
This Court has accordingly held invalid state taxation
of vehicles of interstate transportation unless the tax is
equitably apportioned to the use of the vehicles within
the state compared to their use without, whether the tax
is laid by the state of the domicile or another.2 Such an
2

The rule, generally applied, that vessels are taxable only by the
domicile, Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17 How. 596, 597; St. Louis
v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, 430, 431-2; Morgan v. Parham, 16 Wall.
471, 475; TransportationCo. v. Wheeling, 99 U. S. 273, 279-80; Ayer
& Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409, 421; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, 68, 69, 77, is no exception to these

rules. For vessels ordinarily move on the high seas, outside the
jurisdiction of any state, and merely touch briefly at ports within
a state. Hence they acquire no tax situs in any of the states at which
they touch port, and are taxable by the domicile or not at all. See
Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 23; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Kentucky, supra, 75. The suggestion in the earlier cases, see
Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., supra, 600; St. Louis v. Ferry Co.,
supra; Morgan v. Parham, supra, that vessels were to be taxed exclusively at the home port, whether or not it was the domicile, was
rejected in Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, supra, and Southern

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 315
292

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

apportionment has been sustained when made according
to the mileage traveled within and without the state, Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra, 26, or the average
number of vehicles within the taxing state during the tax
period. Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., supra; American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, supra, 82; Union
Transit Co. v. Lynch, supra.'
But if the tax is laid without apportionment or if the
apportionment, when made, is plainly inequitable so as
to bear unfairly on the commerce by compelling the carrier
to pay to the taxing state more than its fair share of the
tax measured by the full value of the property, this Court
has set aside the tax as an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce, whether it be in form on the rolling
Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, supra, and has never been revived. But
where the vessels operate wholly on waters within one state,
they have been held to be taxable there, Old Dominion S. S. Co. v.
Virginia, 198 U. S. 299, and not at the domicile, Southern Pacific Co.
v. Kentucky, supra, 67, 72, a result which, like the rule of apportionment in taxing railroad cars, avoids the burden of multiple taxation.
Similarly taxes by the state of domicile or other states on the
carrier's entire property including rolling stock have been sustained
if apportioned according to mileage, Pittsburgh, C., C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.
194, 166 U. S. 185; American Express Co. v. Indiana, 165 U. S. 255;
Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171; Wells, Fargo & Co.
v. Nevada, 248 U. S. 165; St. Louis & E. St. L. Ry. Co. v. Hagerman,
256 U. S. 314; Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519; Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362, or a combination of
relevant factors, Rowley v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 293 U. S. 102;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Weeks, 297 U. S. 135. Likewise gross
receipts taxes, if properly apportioned or otherwise limited to receipts
from business done within the state, have been upheld, Erie Ry. Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall. 492; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142
U. S. 217, as explained in Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co..v. Texas,
210 U. S. 217, 226; United States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 13. S.
335; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; Pullman Co.
v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330; cf. New York, L. E. & W. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

stock, Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra; Union Tank
Line Co. v. Wright, supra; Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma,
supra, or on the carrier's entire property, Fargo v. Hart,
193 U. S. 490; or on a franchise or right to do business,
Allen v. Pullman's Car Co., 191 U. S. 171; Wallace v.
Hines, 253 U. S. 66; Southern Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, 274
U. S. 76; cf. Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
136 U. S. 114.
Upon like principles this Court has consistently held
that a tax laid by a state on gross receipts from interstate
commerce, which is comparable to a property tax at full
value on vehicles of interstate transportation, violates the
commerce clause unless equitably apportioned. Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Oklahoma
v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298; see Cudahy Packing
Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450, 453-5; Pullman Co. v.
Richardson,261 U. S. 330, 338-9. To the same effect as
to capital stock taxes, see Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280, 285 and cases cited.
In many the tax was held invalid although imposed by
the state of the domicile of the taxpayer. Philadelphia
& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326, 342,
overruling State Tax on Railway GrossReceipts, 15 Wall.
284; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292;
New Jersey Telephone Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338;
Fisher'sBlend Station v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650;
Puget Sound Co. v. Tax Commission, 302 U. S. 90; Adams
Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307; Gwin, White & Prince
v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434; see Western Live Stock v.
Bureau, supra. The same rule is applied to the taxation
by the domicile of goods carried interstate, Case of the
State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Eureka Pipe Line Co. v.
Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265; and the taxation of goods in
transit generally, Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota, 272
U. S. 469.

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 317
292

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

In Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, supra, 228,
in which a tax on gross receipts of a railway engaged in
interstate commerce was condemned because not apportioned, the Court declared, "Of course, it does not matter
that the plaintiffs in error are domestic corporations."
The like rule, applied to the taxation by the state of the
owner's domicile of railroad property, including rolling
stock, was approved in Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v.
Browning, supra. And in Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504,
511-12, the Court was at pains to point out that the power
of a state to tax goods in transit is not affected by the fact
that it is or is not the domicile of the owner. These cases
clearly establish that, whatever relevance domicile may at
times have to the power of a state under the due process
clause to tax tangibles, it has none to the question whether
the exercise of that power so burdens interstate commerce
as to violate the commerce clause.
It cannot be said either in point of practicality or of legal
theory that anything is added to Minnesota's power to tax
by reason of the fact that all of petitioner's aircraft are
registered with the Civil Aeronautics Authority with St.
Paul, Minnesota, designated as their "home port." Section 501 of the Civil Aeronautics Act, 52 Stat. 1005, 49
U. S. C. § 521, requiring the registration with the Authority of aircraft, merely provides that a certificate of
registration "shall be conclusive evidence of nationality
for international purposes." Neither the statute nor the
regulations adopted under it attach any other consequences to the registration of airplanes at a particular
"home port." The much more detailed provisions of R. S.
§§ 4141, 4178 as amended, requiring registration of vessels
at a particular home port and the painting of the name of
that port on the stern of the vessel, have been held irrelevant to state power to tax, even though the port of enrollment is also one at which the vessel regularly calls, St.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

Louis v. Ferry Co., supra; Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, supra;see Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, supra,
68, 73.
Nor is it of any significance for tax purposes whether
Minnesota is "as a business fact the home state of the
fleet." While'the existence of a business domicile has been
thought to afford a basis for the state taxation of intangibles, on the theory that they have become localized
there, Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, supra, 211 et seq., the
constitutional bases for the taxation of tangibles and of
intangibles are, as we have seen, quite different, and under our decisions, to which we have referred, the only
basis for the taxation of tangibles is their physical presence in the taxing jurisdiction. And even the taxation of
intangibles of interstate carriers is subject to the rule of
apportionment wherever the tax without it would subject
the commerce to the burden of multiple state taxation.
The "unit rule" for the taxation of interstate carriers applies to tangibles and intangibles alike and requires an
equitable apportionment of the tax on both. Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 222, 226; 166 U. S. 185,
223-4, 225; Fargov. Hart, supra,499; Oklahoma v. Wells
Fargo & Co., supra, 300; Wallace v. Hines, supra, 69-70;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, supra,81.
Moreover, the difficulties of applying to aircraft a rule
of taxation at a "home port" are essentially those which
have led, long since, to the abandonment of the idea by
this Court as applied to vessels. Compare St. Louis v.
Ferry Co., supra;Ayer & Lord Tie Co. v. Kentucky, supra.
While it appears from the present record that petitioner
maintains at St. Paul, Minnesota, its airplane and engine
overhauling base, at which the principal repairs to planes
and engines are made, it also operates maintenance bases
at Chicago, Illinois, Minneapolis, Minnesota, Fargo, North
Dakota, Billings, Montana, and Spokane and Seattle,

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 319
292

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

Washington, at which points it maintains crews of mechanics and maintenance equipment. It owns and leases
hangars and office space at all of its stopping points, each of
which are manned by its employees. On the tax day, May
1, 1939, petitioner's planes made no scheduled stop in St.
Paul. Thus a number of states have a physical relationship to petitioner's business-by reason of the movement
of planes, over the fixed routes, the landing of planes, the
maintenance and operation of repair and service equipment, landing fields, hangars, and office buildings, with
their attendant employees-which, for practical purposes, is as substantial in nature as that claimed for
Minnesota.
Even if we could say on this record that Minnesota and
it alone can be regarded as the "home state," we have no
assurance that in taxing planes operated by other and
more complex business organizations, one state will
have any greater claim to that designation than several others, and the Court's opinion furnishes no test to
guide in the choice among them, if choice has any relevance. Nor does it say that the power to tax vehicles of
interstate transportation at the domicile or the "home
port" is exclusive. Obviously, unless it is deemed to be
thus exclusive it does not foreclose any state within which
the planes move on fixed routes from imposing a like tax
burden. And if it is deemed to be exclusive the other
states must be denied their just claims to collect an equitable tax on property regularly used within them in carrying on an interstate business. North Dakota, for instance, in taxing the planes regularly landing within its
borders, is not taxing rights originating in and safeguarded
by Minnesota, or exercising any rights attributable to
Minnesota. No reason appears why North Dakota should
be denied the right to tax the planes to the extent that they
are within its borders, or why, to that extent, Minnesota

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

has any relationship to them sufficient either to enable it
to tax them or to preclude North Dakota from taxing
them.
The taxation of vehicles of interstate transportation in
a business organized and conducted as is petitioner's is as
capable of apportionment, and the insupportable multiple
tax burden on interstate commerce is as readily avoided
by apportionment of the tax, as in the case of the taxation
of tangible and intangible property of railroads, railroad
car supply companies, express companies, and the like
which we have repeatedly held to be subject to the rule of
apportionment. To refuse now to apply the rule of apportionment to petitioner's airplanes, after a half century
of its application by this Court as the means of avoiding
prohibited multiple state tax burdens on vehicles of interstate transportation; to extend to airplanes moving interstate over fixed routes on regular schedules, the rule that
intangibles may be taxed at the business domicile whether
or not taxed elsewhere; and to revive the abandoned doctrine that vessels may be taxed in full at their home port,
while rejecting the correlative rule that they are exempt
from taxation elsewhere, is to disregard the teachings of
experience and of precedent. It subjects a new and important industry to state tax burdens, essentially discriminatory in their effect on interstate commerce, to which
other interstate carriers are not subject and which it was
the very purpose of the commerce clause to avoid.
Respondent places its reliance on N. Y. Central& H. R.
R. Co. v. Miller, supra. There the Court sustained a
franchise tax by the state of domicile including in its
measure the full value of freight cars moving in and out
of the state, often out of the taxpayer's possession for an
indefinite time, and moving in the service of other roads
on their independent business. The decision proceeded on
the assumption, not tenable here but which the facts of
that case were thought to support, that the cars were not

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 321
292

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

shown to have moved so regularly or continuously in any
state or group of states outside the domicile as to gain a tax
situs there. The Court in distinguishing the case from
Pullman'sCar Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra,which sustained
a state tax on a foreign railroad corporation, measured by
the intrastate mileage of cars passing in and out of the
taxing state, said (pp. 597-8):
"But in that case it was found that the 'cars used in this
State have, during all the time for which tax is charged,
been running into, through and out of the State.' The
same cars were continuously receiving the protection of
the State, and, therefore, it was just that the State should
tax a proportion of them. Whether if the same amount of
protection had been received in respect of constantly
changing cars the same principle would have applied was
not decided, and it is not necessary to decide now. In the
present case, however, it does not appear that any specific
cars or any average of cars was so continuously in any
other State as to be taxable there. The absences relied
on were not n the course of travel upon fixed routes but
random excursions of casually chosen cars, determined by
the varying orders of particular shippers and the arbitrary convenience of other roads. Therefore we need not
consider either whether there is any necessary parallelism
between liability elsewhere and immunity at home."
The present case raises the question which the Miller
case found it unnecessary to decide but which this Court
has consistently answered by requiring the apportionment
of a tax on vehicles of interstate transportation according
to their regular use within and without the taxing state.
In the Miller case it appeared that the cars moved not
only over the carrier's own tracks, but also were interchanged with other railroads, and thus, as the Court
pointed out, moved about almost at random throughout
the United States. No evidence was offered tending to
show in what states the cars moved, or with what degree

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

of regularity they were present in any particular state or
group of states other than New York. The Court was
thus not called upon to consider whether New York could
tax the cars if they moved between New York and other
named states with such regularity that an "average of
cars" could be said to be continuously so moving in those
other states. Here, on the other hand, it is stipulated and
found that all of petitioner's planes are "continuously
engaged in flying from state to state in the course of [petitioner's] operations" and that those operations are on
regular schedules along fixed routes through eight states.
The total mileage of regular routes and the total daily
mileage on those routes both in Minnesota and outside
are definitely stipulated and found. Hence there is no
warrant for saying that their presence in each of the
states through which they pass is not as regular and continuous in nature as it is in Minnesota. These findings
establish that, while no particular plane is permanently
within any state, its planes are continuously flying in,
and an average number or a percentage of the total is regularly, i. e., "permanently" within, each of the states through
which they pass. Here, as was the case in Pullman's Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra, the same planes are "running
into, through, and out of" each of the states along petitioner's routes and an "average" of planes is continuously
within each of those states.4
4 It is true that here there is no evidence of the average number of
planes present within Minnesota or any other state during the tax
year. But where the movement through the state is regular and continuous, as it is here and was not in the Miller case, apportionment
may be made by showing the plane mileage or route mileage within
and without the state. Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.
18; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362, and cases
cited. The Minnesota court here did not rest its decision on the
ground that petitioner had sought to apportion by mileage instead
of by average number of cars, and had introduced no evidence to support the latter type of apportionment. If it had it might well have

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA.
292

STONE,

323

C. J., dissenting.

We are not now concerned with the proper apportionment of taxable values among the states outside the state
of Minnesota. Since the movement of the planes, wherever they go, is over fixed routes and on regular schedules,
they acquire a tax situs outside Minnesota to the extent
that they do not move within it. Hence the extent to
which they move in and are taxable by one state outside
Minnesota rather than another is irrelevant. It is enough
that the Minnesota tax is for full value and that Minnesota's fiscal formula imposes a prohibited burden on
interstate commerce because it is used "to project the
tax power of the state plainly beyond its borders," to
reach instruments of interstate commerce which are taxable elsewhere, and that the extent of that projection
may be measured by comparing either the plane or the
remanded the cause to permit any deficiencies of proof to be remedied. It held rather that regardless of the nature of proof of apportionment Minnesota, as the state of the domicile, could tax the cars for
their entire value.
In this respect also the case is unlike the Miller case. There, as the
record reveals, the carrier's evidence showed only the car mileage
within and without the state, and its owned track mileage within and
without the state. But since the cars moved over irregular routes
without fixed schedules, car mileage afforded no basis of apportionment, without proof also that the cars were present in particular states
with sufficient regularity to acquire a tax situs there. Owned track
mileage likewise failed to afford a basis of apportionment, in the absence of some proof that the tracks were regularly used by the cars in
question. Nor did the carrier lack opportunity to make fuller proof.
The cause as it came here involved five successive tax years, as to
each of which the carrier was afforded a hearing with opportunity to
introduce evidence. The carrier having failed despite this repeated
opportunity to introduce evidence which would, on any theory of apportionment, support a conclusion that any particular proportion of
cars had acquired a tax situs elsewhere, this Court, as it pointed out,
was not called upon to apply the rule of Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, or to consider whether, consistently with the commerce clause, property used as an instrumentality of commerce may
be subjected to the risk of double taxation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

route mileage over fixed routes in Minnesota with like mileage over fixed routes in the states outside Minnesota.
Both before and since the Miller case this Court has
ruled that vehicles of interstate transportation regularly
moving to and from the state of domicile from and to
other states acquire a tax situs in the latter, and that the
state of domicile cannot constitutionally levy on them an
unapportioned property tax. Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra; Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, supra; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Browning, supra. In Johnson Oil
Co. v. Oklahoma, supra, 161-2, where the cars moved
from and to Oklahoma to and from various states including Illinois, the state of domicile, we declared that the
cars had acquired a tax situs outside Illinois and were to
that extent not taxable by Illinois. The court rested its
decision on the rule, stated without qualification, that
"When a fleet of cars is habitually employed in several
States-the individual cars constantly running in and out
of each State-it cannot be said that any one of the States
is entitled to tax the entire number of cars regardless of
their use in other States." ' Those cases should control
5

In Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.194, it appeared that
the cars of the Transit Company, the taxpayer, moved in and out
of Kentucky, the state of domicile. The Transit Company disclaimed
on the record any effort to prove that it had any cars which never

came within the state, and sought to establish the number "permanently located" outside it only by proof of gross earnings within
and without the state. In holding that the state of domicile could
not tax tangible personal property "permanently located in other
states" (p. 201), it is clear that the Court was limiting the taxing
power of the state of domicile to the extent that the cars moving
between Kentucky and other states had, under the rule of apportionment, gained a tax situs outside the state because they were "located
and employed" there (p. 211). This is evident from its citation (p.
206) of Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennslyvania, 141 U. S.18, and American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70, as cases involving
property "permanently located" in the taxing states. Both cases in-

NORTHWEST AIRLINES v. MINNESOTA. 325
292

SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

now. For here we are confronted with a scheme of taxation imposed on vehicles of interstate transportation located within the taxing state for only a limited and specified part of their active life. For the rest, they are in
other states, moving over fixed routes of travel where,
under our decisions, they plainly have a tax situs, and
where they are in fact taxed in six of the seven states other
than Minnesota through which they pass.
The tax now sustained is so obviously disproportionate
to the protection afforded to the taxed property by the taxing state as to place a constitutionally intolerable burden
on interstate commerce. But it is a burden which is capable of equitable adjustment which would satisfy constitutional requirements by the application of the principles
of apportionment which this Court has repeatedly sanctioned, and which it is the constitutional duty of the State
of Minnesota to apply. The application of these principles does not call for mathematical exactness nor for the
rigid application of a particular formula; only if the resulting valuation is palpably excessive will it be set aside.
But a reasonable attempt must be made to tax only so
much of the value as is fairly related to use within the taxing state. Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, supra, 282;
Great Northern Ry. v. Weeks, supra, 144; Nashville, C. &
St. L. Ry. v. Browning, supra, 365.
volved rolling stock continuously moving into and out of the taxing
state and sustained taxes upon a proportion of the carrier's total
rolling stock based respectively upon the track mileage or upon the
average number of cars used within the taxing state. Had the Court
intended to exempt, from the domicile's power to tax, only property
which never came into the domicile it would have been necessary for
it to discuss also the contention that the Union Transit Company had
been denied the equal protection of the laws because railroads were
taxed only upon the value of their rolling stock used within the state
determined by the proportionate mileage within the state (pp. 202,

211).

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

It is no answer to suggest that the states other than
Minnesota have not asserted their constitutional power to
tax or that we do not know how or to what extent they
have exercised it. The extent to which one state may constitutionally tax the instruments of interstate transportation does not depend on what other states may happen to
do, but on what the taxing state has constitutional power
to do. The jurisdiction of Minnesota to tax "must be determined on a basis which is consistent with the like jurisdiction of other States." Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma,
supra, 162. Minnesota cannot justify its imposition of an
undue proportion of the total tax burden which can be
imposed on an interstate carrier by saying that other states
have taken or may take less than their share of the tax.
It is enough that the tax exposes petitioner to "the risk
of a multiple burden to which local commerce is not exposed," Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, supra, 311; Gwin,
White & Prince v. Henneford, supra, 439, and cases
cited. To hold otherwise would be to measure Minnesota's pover to tax, not by constitutional standards, but
by the action of other states over which neither Minnesota
nor petitioner has any control and to leave petitioner's
tax to be measured from year to year, not according to any
legal standard, but by the unpredictable uncontrolled
action of other states.
The judgment should be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in the course of which the
state court would be free, if so advised, to inquire to what
extent, if at all, the tax may, in harmony with state law,
be apportioned in conformity to principles heretofore
announced by this Court, and to that extent sustained.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE REED,
TICE RUTLEDGE join in this dissent.

and MR. JUS-

