FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
471

Opinion of the Court.

ever engineering problems might have been involved. We
have, therefore, a conception which is on its face too obvious to constitute patentable invention, and which was
advanced shortly after any need of it arose. We think
the district court was right in finding the Egloff patent
invalid.
Affirmed.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 193.

Argued December 17, 1943.-Decided May 29, 1944.

The Fifth Amendment does not forbid the use in evidence against
a defendant in a criminal case in a federal court of self-incriminating
testimony theretofore compelled-under a state immunity statute
and without participation by federal officers--in proceedings in a
state court. P. 492.
136 F. 2d 394, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 320 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of a
conviction, under § 215 of the Criminal Code, for using
the mails to defraud.

Mr. Seymour M. Klein, with whom Mr. James Marshall
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Chester T. Lane, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and
Mr. Edward G. Jennings were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an indictment under Section 215 of the Criminal
Code, 18 U. S. C. § 338, for using the mails to further a
fraudulent scheme. Petitioner's conviction was affirmed

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

by the Circuit Court of Appeals, one judge dissenting.
136 F. 2d 394. We brought the case here, 320 U. S. 724,
to consider the single question whether the admission of
testimony previously given by petitioner in supplementary proceedings in a state court deprived him of the protection of the Fifth Amendment against being "compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself."
In accordance with New York procedure, known as
supplementary proceedings, designed to aid in the discovery of assets of a debtor, N. Y. Civil Practice Act, art.
45, Feldman, a judgment debtor, was called as a witness
in such proceedings on several occasions between March
31, 1936, and September 29, 1939. Up to March 14,1938,
the New York immunity statute merely provided that a
debtor might not be excused from testifying because of
self-crimination but that his testimony could not be used
in evidence in a subsequent criminal proceeding against
him. N. Y. Laws, 1935, c. 630, § 789. By an Act of
March 14, 1938, New York broadened the debtor's immunity so as to free him from prosecution on account of
any matter revealed in his testimony. N. Y. Laws, 1938,
c. 108, § 17; N. Y. Civil Practice Act, § 789. While the
earlier provision was in effect, Feldman testified that he
was unemployed, paid rent of $250 a month from funds
supplied by his family, owed about $340,000 and contemplated immediate bankruptcy. He further testified that
about once a month his father sent him a book of signed
checks, he sent large sums of money to his father by
Western Union and destroyed whatever evidence the receipts might offer-in short, that he was "kiting" his
father's checks by sending the proceeds of the later checks
to cover those cashed earlier. After March 14, 1938, and
down through September, 1939, Feldman again testified
in New York supplementary proceedings, giving further
details of his bizarre "kiting" practices.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

Opinion of the Court.

The federal charge was the use of the mails in a scheme
to defraud executed by "kiting" checks. In the trial, the
Government introduced Feldman's testimony in the New
York supplementary proceedings. He did not take the
stand. The Government contends that it is unnecessary
to decide whether the claim of privilege duly made bars
the admission of this testimony. It suggests that testimony given prior to the Act of March 14, 1938, was not
compellable and therefore Feldman waived any privilege,
in that the New York statute prior to March 14, 1938, did
not grant an immunity coextensive with the privilege
available under New York law. People ex rel. Lewisohn v.
O'Brien, 176 N. Y. 253, 68 N. E. 353. As to testimony
under the later New York statute, the Government suggests that it either was not incriminating or was merely
repetitive of the earlier voluntary testimony, making its
admission in any event not prejudicial.
We put to one side all these subtler issues because we
think they cannot dispose of the case. And so we come
directly to the main question, namely whether the Fifth
Amendment prohibited the admission against Feldman
upon his trial in a federal court of the earlier testimony
given by him in the state courts. While the point has not
been formally decided, we deem the answer to be controlled by a long series of decisions expressing basic principles of our federation.
The effective enforcement of a well-designed penal code
is of course indispensable for social security. But the Bill
of Rights was added to the original Constitution in the
conviction that too high a price may be paid even for the
unhampered enforcement of the criminal law and that, in
its attainment, other social objects of a free society should
not be sacrificed. We are immediately concerned with the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments, intertwined as they are,
and expressing as they do supplementing phases of the
587770--45---35

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

same constitutional purpose-to maintain inviolate large
areas of personal privacy. See Boyd v. Unit6d States, 116
U. S. 616, 630. "The efforts of the courts and their officials
to bring the guilty to punishment, praiseworthy as they
are, are not to be aided by the sacrifice of those great principles [of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments] established
by years of endeavor and suffering which have resulted in
their embodiment in the fundamental law of the land."
Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 393. "We have
already noticed the intimate relation between the two
amendments. They throw great light on each other. For
the 'unreasonable searches and seizures' condemned in the
Fourth Amendment are almost always made for the purpose of compelling a man to give evidence against himself,
which in criminal cases is condemned in the Fifth Amendment; and compelling a man 'in a criminal case to be a witness against himself,' which is condemned in the Fifth
Amendment, throws light on the question as to what is
an 'unreasonable search and seizure' within the meaning
of the Fourth Amendment. And we have been unable to
perceive that the seizure of a man's private books and
papers to be used in evidence against him is substantially
different from compelling him to be a witness against himself." Boyd v. United States, supra, at 633.
But for more than one hundred years, ever since Barron
v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, one of the settled principles of
our Constitution has been that these Amendments protect
only against invasion of civil liberties by the Government
whose conduct they alone limit. Brown v. Walker, 161
U. S. 591, 606; Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, 380; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78. Conversely, a State cannot by operating within its constitutional powers restrict
the operations of the National Government within its
sphere. The distinctive operations of the two governments within their respective spheres is basic to our federal constitutional system, howsoever complicated and

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

491

Opinion of the Court.

difficult the practical accommodations to it may be. The
matter was put in classic terms in what Chief Justice Taft
called "the great judgment," Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S.
254, 261, of Chief Justice Taney in Ableman v. Booth, 21
How. 506, 516: "the powers of the General Government,
and of the State, although both exist and are exercised
within the same territorial limits, are yet separate and distinct sovereignties, acting separately and independently of
each other, within their respective spheres. And the
sphere of action appropriated to the United States is as
far beyond the reach of the judicial process issued by a
State judge of a State court, as if the line of division was
traced by landmarks and monuments visible to the eye."
This principle has governed a series of decisions which
for all practical purposes rule the present case. When this
Court for the first time sustained an immunity statute as
adequate, it rejected the argument that because federal
immunity could not bar use in a state prosecution of testimony compelled in a federal court, the immunity falls
short of the constitutional requirement. Brown v.
Walker, supra, at 606. And when the reverse claim was
made as to a state immunity statute, that a disclosure
compelled in a state court could not assure immunity in
a federal court, the argument was again rejected because
"The state [anti-trust] statute could not, of course, prevent a prosecution of the same party under the United
States [anti-trust] statute, and it could not prevent the
testimony given by the party in the State proceeding from
being used against the same person in a Federal court for a
violation of the Federal statute, if it could be imagined
that such prosecution would be instituted under such circumstances." Jack v. Kansas, supra, at 380. When the
matter was here last it was thus summarized: "This court
has held that immunity against state prosecution is not
essential to the validity of federal statutes declaring that
a witness shall not be excused from giving evidence on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

322 U. S.

ground that it will incriminate him, and also that the lack
of state power to give witnesses protection against federal
prosecution does not defeat a state immunity statute.
The principle established is that full and complete immunity against prosecution by the government compelling the witness to answer is equivalent to the protection
furnished by the rule against compulsory self-incrimination." UnitedStates v. Murdock, 284 U. S. 141, 149.
And so, while evidence secured through unreasonable
search and seizure by federal officials is inadmissible in a
federal prosecution, Weeks v. United States, supra;
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298; Agnello v. United
States, 269 U. S. 20, incriminating documents so secured
by state officials without participation by federal officials
but turned over for their use are admissible in a federal
prosecution. Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S. 465. Relevant testimony is not barred from use in a criminal trial
in a federal court unless wrongfully acquired by federal
officials. "If knowledge of them [the facts] is gained from
an independent source they may be proved like any others,
but the knowledge gained by the Government's own wrong
cannot be used by it . . ." Silverthorne Lumber Co. v.

United States, 251 U. S.385, 392. This Court has refused
to draw nice distinctions as to when wrongful acquisition
of evidence by state agencies was also a federal enterprise.
When a representative of the United States is a participant in the extortion of evidence or in its illicit acquisition, he is charged with exercising the authority of the
United States. Evidence so secured may be regained, GoBart Co. v. UnitedStates, 282 U. S.344, and its admission,
after timely motion for its suppression, vitiates a conviction. Byars v. United States, 273 U. S.28.
The Constitution prohibits an invasion of privacy only
in proceedings over which the Government has control.
There is no suggestion of complicity between Feldman's
creditors and federal law-enforcing officers. The Govern-

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

Opinion of the Court.

ment here is not seeking to benefit by evidence which it
extorted. It had no power either to compel testimony in
the state court or to forestall such disclosure as a means
of avoiding possible interference with the enforcement
of the federal penal code. Whether testimony in a New
York court should be compelled in exchange for immunity from prosecution under the penal laws of New York
is for New York to say. For what purposes the United
States may deem the disclosure of testimony more important than prosecution for federal crimes is for Congress
to say. It has seen fit to make the exchange very sparingly. See United States v. Monia, 317 U. S. 424. Certainly it is not for New York to determine when, because
it suits its local policy to employ testimonial compulsion,
it will relieve from federal prosecution "for or on account
of any transaction, matter or thing concerning which" a
New York court may have seen fit to require testimony.
Such would be the practical result of sustaining petitioner's claim. The immunity from prosecution, like the privilege against testifying which it supplants, pertains to a
prosecution in the same jurisdiction. Otherwise the criminal law of the United States would be at the hazard of
carelessness or connivance in some petty civil litigation
in any state court, quite beyond the reach even of the most
alert watchfulness by law officers of the Government. See
Nardone v. United States, 308 U. S. 338.
Only a word need be said about the phrase of scepticism
in Jack v. Kansas, supra,at 380, that it could hardly be imagined "that such prosecution would be instituted under
such circumstances." The "prosecution" and the "circumstances" there referred to were a prosecution on the same
facts for violation of the state and the federal anti-trust
laws. But see Foxv. Ohio, 5 How. 410, 435; UnitedStates
v. Lanza, 260 U. S. 377. The cautionary words in Jack v.
Kansas in nowise qualified the principle of that and later
cases as to the separateness in the operation of state and

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

federal criminal laws and state and federal immunity provisions. There are, as we have already seen, ample safeguards. If a federal agency were to use a state court as
an instrument for compelling disclosures for federal purposes, the doctrine of the Byars case, supra,as well as that
of McNabb v. UnitedStates, 318 U. S. 332, afford adequate
resources against such an evasive disregard of the privilege against self-crimination. See United States v. Saline
Bank, 1 Pet. 100; United States v. McRae, L. R. 3 Ch.
App. 79. Nothing in this record brings either doctrine into
play.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JuSTICBi MURPHY

and MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK, dissenting:

In Boyd v. United States, this Court said that "any
compulsory discovery by extorting the party's oath . . .
is contrary to the principles of a free government. It is
abhorrent . . . to the instincts of an American. It may
suit the purposes of despotic power; but it cannot abide
the pure atmosphere of political liberty and personal freedom." 116 U. S. 616, 631-632.1 Unless the Court now is
disavowing this belief, the use of testimony obtained by
compulsory discovery to convict an accused must be con' And see Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, where this Court disposed
of an argument that a Kansas statute unconstitutionally compelled
Jack to confess his violations of a federal criminal statute with the assertion that, "We do not believe .

.

. such evidence would be availed

of by the Government for such purpose." Id., 381-382. In an earlier
case, Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, this Court thought that the likelihood that state prosecutors would use testimony compelled by the
federal government was "so improbable that no reasonable man would
suffer it to influence his conduct." Id., 606-608. But see Ensign v.
Pennsylvania, 227 U. S. 592.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

BLACK, J., dissenting.

sidered "shocking to the universal sense of justice" and
"offensive to the common and fundamental ideas of fairness and right," and therefore, under past decisions of the
Court, incompatible with Constitutional due process of
law. Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455, 462, 473. Or at least,
even if the use of testimony extracted by compulsory discovery be held consistent with due process, adherence to
the belief expressed by the Boyd case should require the
Court to hold that, absent a conflicting Act of Congress,
"a decent regard for the duty of courts as agencies of justice and custodians of liberty forbids that men should be
convicted upon evidence" so obtained. McNabb v. United
States, 318 U. S. 332, 347. But I do not base my dissent
upon judicially defined concepts of procedural due process
or upon judge-made rules of evidence. The Bill of Rights,
proposed in 1789 by the First Congress convened under
our Constitution, and quickly ratified by the States in
1791, declares in part that, "No person . . . shall be com-

pelled in any Criminal Case to be a witness against himself." Amend. V, Constitution of the United States.
Never since the Bill of Rights was adopted, until today,
has this Court sustained a single conviction for a federal
offense which rested on self-incriminatory testimony
forced from the accused. I cannot agree to do so now.
Feldman was compelled to testify under oath in a creditors' compulsory discovery proceeding in a New York
court conducted pursuant to a state statute which granted
him immunity from state prosecution for any state crime
he might be forced to confess. Had he refused to testify
he could have been imprisoned. Over his objection, a
transcript of his compelled testimony was used in the
United States District Court to convict him of a federal
crime. As the Fifth Amendment heretofore has been
interpreted, Feldman's testimony could not have been
used for this purpose had it been compelled by a federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

court rather than the state court.' This would have been
true whether the federal court proceeding had been noncriminal or criminal,' and whether Feldman had testified
as a mere witness or as a defendant.' Nor could his forced
testimony have been used had it been compelled by federal
officers outside of a court room; 5 by foreign detectives in
a foreign country inquiring into commission of an offense
against the United States committed on the high seas;I or
by state officers interrogating a suspect for the purpose of
enforcing a federal law." There is, then, no sanction in
the precedents of this Court for viewing the Fifth Amendment's prohibition against compelled testimony with
grudging eyes and reducing its scope to the narrowest
plausible limits. As the decisions reflect, the previously
declared attitude of the Court toward this prohibition has
been that it "must have a broad construction in favor of
the right which it was intended to secure." Coumelman
v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 562; McCarthy v. Arndstein,
266 U. S. 34.
Today, however, the Court adopts a different approach
to the task of construing the Fifth Amendment. We are
now told that under certain circumstances compelled testimony is purged of the fatal taint which the Fifth Amendment places upon it, and that an accused can be convicted
2

McCarthy v. Arndstein, 266 U. S. 34; and see Brain v. United
States, 168 U. S. 532; Wan v. United States, 266 U. S. 1; cf. Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616.
3
McCarthy v. Arndstein, supra, Note 2, pp. 40-41; Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 562. See also United States ex rel. Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149; United States ex rel. Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration,273 U. S. 103.
'Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547.
5Wan v. United States, supra, Note 2; Anderson v. United States,
318 U. S. 350, 356.
6
Bram v. United States, supra, Note 2.
7Anderson v. United States, supra,Note 5; and see Brain v. United
States, supra, Note 2.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

in a federal court on words he was forced to speak. The
circumstances under which it is now held that men can be
forced to convict themselves by their own testimony are,
(1) that the testimony was compelled by state officers,
and (2) that the state officers were not acting to enforce
federal law. These slight variations in the techniques
of compulsion axe considered a sufficient excuse to escape
the Fifth Amendment's command against the use of compelled testimony by federal courts. Surely such a holding
is not to be justified by the language of that Amendment.
Within its sweeping prohibition are found no exceptions
based upon the persons who compel, their purpose in compelling, or their method of compelling, whether by threats
of imprisonment, physical torture, or other means. Testimony is no less compelled because a state rather than a
federal officer compels it, or because the state officer appears to be primarily interested at the moment in enforcing
a state rather than a federal law.
Nor is the holding in this case to be defended as one
which our federal system requires. This case presents no
conflict between federal and state spheres of power such
as that presented by cases involving the validity of federal
and state immunity statutes, wherein it has been contended, unsuccessfully, that neither the United States nor
a State can compel a witness to testify against himself
unless it grant him complete immunity from prosecution
in both jurisdictions.' Feldman's objection to the use of
8 See Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, and United States v. Murdock,
284 U. S. 141, holding it enough that the United States grant immunity from prosecution for federal crimes; but see, contra, United States
v. Saline Bank, 1 Pet. 100; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186. Had the
Court in the Murdock case, supra, accepted the contention that the
federal government must grant an immunity from state as well as
federal prosecution, it would inevitably have been faced with the
problem of the federal power to interfere with enforcement of state
laws through the device of granting immunity from state prosecution
to witnesses in federal proceedings--a problem replete with both prac-

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

his compelled testimony is not based on a claim that New
York must grant him, or has granted him, immunity from
prosecution for the federal crime it has forced him to confess. He does not question the power of the United States
to prosecute him for that crime on proper evidence. Nor,
for that matter, does he contend that the Fifth Amendment prevented New York from compelling him to confess
a federal crime.' He claims only that the Fifth Amendment's prohibition against self-incrimination prevents the
use of his compelled testimony against him in the present
proceeding. The very narrow problem thus presented,
and upon which this Court never before has passed, is
whether federal courts can convict a defendant of a federal
crime by use of self-incriminatory testimony which someone in some manner has extracted from him against his
will. The Court's holding that a defendant can be so
convicted cuts into the very substance of the Fifth Amendment. And it justifies this result not by the language or
history of the Constitution itself, but by a process of syllogistic reasoning based upon broad premises of "dual sovereignty" stated in previous opinions of the Court relating
to immunity statutes. Even were there here a "dual
tical and legal difficulties. See J. A. C. Grant, Immunity From Compulsory Self-Incrimination in a Federal System of Government, 9
Temple L. Q. 57 and 194, 207-211.
Compare Jack v. Kansas, supra, Note 1, holding that Kansas could
compel a witness to testify to his past crimes upon a grant of immunity from state prosecution, though he still be subject to federal
prosecution. In reaching this result the Court took specific notice of
the fact that, were the rule otherwise, state immunity statutes must
all be stricken down. "The state statute could not, of course, prevent
a prosecution of the same party under the United States statute." 199
U. S. 372, 380.
9 See Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.78, and Ensign v. Pennsylvania, supra, Note 1, holding respectively that despite the Fourteenth
Amendment a state may compel a defendant to incriminate himself,
and may use against him schedules he filed in an involuntary federal
bankruptcy proceeding. But see Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S.143.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

BLACK,

499

J., dissenting.

sovereignty" problem, which there is not, such a method
of decision would be questionable. Constitutional interpretation should involve more than dialectics. The great
principles of liberty written in the Bill of Rights cannot
safely be treated as imprisoned in walls of formal logic
built upon vague abstractions found in the United States
Reports. "The ultimate touchstone of constitutionality
is the Constitution itself and not what we have said about
it." Grai)es v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466,
concurring opinion, 487, 491-492."
Putting aside the Court's dialectical method of interpretation, and examining the history and purpose of the
Fifth Amendment, there appears to be no justification for
reducing its scope as the Court is now doing. Compulsion
of self-incriminatory testimony by court oaths and by the
less refined methods of torture were equally detested by
the Fifth Amendment's liberty-loving advocates and their
forbears." Their abhorrence of these practices did not
spring alone from a predilection for personal privacy.
They had other reasons to despise and fear them. They
still remembered the hated practices of the Court of Star
Chamber, the Court of High Commission, and other inquisitorial agencies which had brought religious and political non-conformists within the penalties of the law by
means of their own testimony. And history supports no
argument that the framers of the Fifth Amendment were
interested only in forbidding the extractionof an accused's
testimony, as distinguished from the use of his extracted
testimony. The extraction of testimony is, of course, but
a means to the end of its use to punish. Few persons
2o For a critical analysis of the conflict between the legal concept of
"dual sovereignty" and preservation of the Constitutional prohibition
against self-incrimination, see J. A. C. Grant, op. cit., supra, Note 8.
" See Pittman, The Colonial and Constitutional History of the
Privilege Against Self-Incrimination in America, 21 Va. L. Rev. 763,
775-783.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

322 U.S.

would seriously object to testifying unless their testimony
would subject them to future punishment. The real evil
aimed at by the Fifth Amendment's flat prohibition
against the compulsion of self-incriminatory testimony
was that thought to inhere in using a man's compelled testimony to punish him. By broadly outlawing the practice
of compelling such testimony the Fifth Amendment
struck at this evil at its source, seeking to eliminate the
possibility that compelled testimony would ever be available for use to punish a defendant. 2
Perhaps, as some have argued, the men who framed this
Amendment were mistaken or their fears have lost foundation and the unqualified prohibition against the extraction
and use of compelled testimony which they put into the
Fifth Amendment should be repealed or modified."3 This
view of the desirability of constricting the Fifth Amendment I am not ready to accept, but were it otherwise I
would not consider such a view should play any part in
the process of interpretation. I am unwilling to see any
constriction of the liberties and the procedural safeguards
of these liberties specifically enumerated in the Bill of
Rights unless it be by Constitutional amendment. 4
The prohibition against compelled testimony which the
Court today has seen fit to restrict cannot be dissociated
12 See United States v. Burr, 25 Fed. Cas. 38-41; Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, 564-566; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591,
594, 600, 605-606; cf. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 173. And see
Pittman, op. cit., supra, Note 11; and cases cited Notes 5, 6, and 7,
supra.
1 Compare Knox, Self-Incrimination, 74 Univ. Pa. L. Rev. 139 with
VIII Wigmore on Evidence, Third Ed., pp. 304-313; and see Editorial,
16 Journ. Crim. Law and Crim. 165-166.
14 See dissenting opinion of Circuit Judge Frank in United States v.
St. Pierre, 132 F. 2d 837, 840, pp. 847-848. "Strangely enough, those
who are most opposed to any changes in judicial constructions of those
designedly elastic clauses of the Constitution are often the most vigorous in their demands that the courts should eviscerate the specific and
relatively inelastic self-incrimination clause." Id., 848.

FELDMAN v. UNITED STATES.
487

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

from the other specific protections afforded the individual
by the Bill of Rights. The founders of our federal government were too close to oppressions and persecutions
of the unorthodox, the unpopular, and the less influential
to trust even elected representatives with unlimited powers of control over the individual. From their distrust
were derived the first ten amendments, designed as a whole
to "limit and qualify the powers of Government," to define "cases in which the Government ought not to act, or
to act only in a particular mode," and to protect unpopular
minorities from oppressive majorities. 1 Annals 437.
The first of the ten amendments erected a Constitutional
shelter for the people's liberties of religion, speech, press,
and assembly. This amendment reflects the faith that a
good society is not static but advancing, and that the
fullest possible interchange of ideas and beliefs is essential
to attainment of this goal. The proponents of the First
Amendment, committed to this faith, were determined
that every American should possess an unrestrained freedom to express his views, however odious they might be to
vested interests whose power they might challenge.
But these men were not satisfied that the First Amendment would make this right sufficiently secure. As they
well knew, history teaches that attempted exercises of the
freedoms of religion, speech, press, and assembly have
been the commonest occasions for oppression and persecution. Inevitably such persecutions have involved
secret arrests, unlawful detentions, forced confessions,
secret trials, and arbitrary punishments under oppressive
laws. Therefore it is not surprising that the men behind
the First Amendment also insisted upon the Fifth, Sixth,
and Eighth Amendments, designed to protect all individuals against arbitrary punishment by definite procedural
provisions guaranteeing fair public trials by juries. They
sought by these provisions to assure that no individual
could be punished except according to "due process," by

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

322 U. S.

which they certainly intended that no person could be
punished except for a violation of definite and validly
enacted laws of the land, and after a trial conducted in
accordance with the specific procedural safeguards written jn the Bill of Rights. 5 If occasionally these safeguards worked to the advantage of an ordinary criminal,
that was a price they were willing to pay for the freedom
they cherished. And one of the specific procedural safeguards which they inserted to shield the individual was
the prohibition against compulsion of self-incriminatory
testimony.
It is impossible for me to reconcile today's restrictive
interpretation of the prohibition against compelled selfincrimination with the principle of broad construction
which this Court heretofore has deemed essential to full
preservation of the basic safeguards of liberty specifically
enumerated in the Bill of Rights. The protections explicitly afforded the individual by the Bill of Rights represent a large part of the characteristics which distinguish
free from totalitarian government. Under our Constitutional system the privileges it embodies and the rights
it secures were intended to be above and beyond the power
of any branch of government to mutilate or destroy. We
have no assurance that the fears of those who drafted and
adopted our Bill of Rights were groundless, nor that the
reasons for those fears no longer exist. Ancient evils historically associated with the possession of unqualified
power to impose criminal punishment on individuals have
a dangerous habit of reappearing when tried safeguards
are removed.
This case involves the Fifth, not the Fourth, Amendment. Decisions which have read the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments together for the purpose of broadening the
Fourth Amendment should not now be employed to narrow the Fifth Amendment. To do so ignores the particu15 See Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227, 235-238; Tot v. United
States, 319 U. S. 463, 473.

I. C. C. v. JERSEY CITY.
487

Syllabus.

lar reasoning of these decisions as well as the separate
language and history of the two Amendments. See Boyd
v. UnitedStates, supra; Counselman v. Hitchcock, supra;
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; VIII Wigmore on Evidence, Third Ed. pp. 276-304, 368. Nothing this Court
has said with regard to the Fourth Amendment requires

that we now open the door which the Fifth Amendment
in 1791 closed to compelled self-incrimination.
I would reverse the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join
in this opinion.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL. V.
CITY OF JERSEY CITY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 767. Argued May 2, 3, 1944.-Decided May 29, 1944.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized a fare
increase from 8 cents to 9 cents. Upon finding that collection of
the 9-cent fare was impracticable, the Commission modified its
order so as to authorize a fare of 11 tokens for $1.00 or a cash fare
of 10 cents. The Commission later reopened the proceeding, but
only to consider the propriety and lawfulness of the modification
of its original order. Upon further findings, the Commission
authorized a fare of 11 tokens for $1.00 or a cash fare of 10 cents.
A petition of the Price Administrator for modification of the reopening order "in order that the said record be brought up to
date" was denied. Upon review of a decree setting aside the Commission's orders, held:
1. The Commission's findings of fact were supported by substantial evidence. P. 512.
2. Findings of the Commission so supported are conclusive.
P. 512.
3. The Commission's denial of a rehearing of the whole case
was not an abuse of its discretion and did not amount to unfairness such as would vitiate its orders. Pp. 514, 519.
4. It was the duty of the Commission to give full effect to wartime
conditions and the stabilization legislation. P. 519.

